treatment of fournier 's gangrene with adjunctive hyperbaric oxygen therapy . fournier 's gangrene is a devastating infection and often is associated with a high morbidity and mortality . surgical debridement and antibiotics are the cornerstones of therapy . this case describes the use of hyperbaric oxygen as an adjunct in the treatment of fournier 's gangrene . 
periventricular hyperintensity detected by magnetic resonance imaging in infancy . twenty-one infants younger than 12 months of age were diagnosed as having periventricular hyperintensity ( pvh ) on t2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging . ten infants had experienced neonatal asphyxia , 6 intracranial hemorrhage , 2 bacterial meningitis , and 3 apnea . pvh was classified according to its extent . round foci of pvh surrounding the frontal and occipital horns of the lateral ventricles were observed in 4 infants ( pvh pattern i ) . continuous pvh was observed in 17 infants ( pvh patterns ii and iii ) . fourteen infants with continuous pvh had spastic diplegia or quadriplegia . developmental delay was demonstrated in 15 infants with continuous pvh . no pvh pattern i infants had cerebral palsy ; only 1 such infant had mild developmental delay . our study suggests that the extent of pvh reflects the severity of brain damage in neonates with cerebral injuries . 
tissue expansion of the head and neck . indications , technique , and complications . tissue expansion is indicated in the reconstruction of various defects of the head and neck in instances where there is inadequate adjacent tissue to allow either primary closure of the defect or repair with a local flap . it may also be indicated in instances where repair of a defect by an alternative method such as a local , regional , or distant flap will result in an unacceptable donor or recipient site deformity . although tissue expansion is simplistic in concept , it does require judgment and indepth preoperative planning to ensure optimal results . the complication rate is high for tissue expansion in the head and neck , particularly in the cheek and neck area . despite the frequency of complications , in the vast majority of cases the intended reconstruction is successful . 
augmentation mentoplasty using mersilene mesh . many different materials are available for augmentation mentoplasty . however , the optimal implant material for chin implantation has yet to be found . during the past several years , a number of experienced surgeons have turned to the use of mersilene mesh . mersilene mesh is a non-absorbable dacron polyester fiber that can be conformed easily into layers to achieve tailored dimensions and shape . at the mccollough plastic surgery clinic pa , birmingham , ala , 277 patients over a 10-year period underwent chin augmentation with mersilene mesh implants . the material provides excellent tensile strength , durability , and surgical adaptability . the overall complication rate was 3.2 % ( nine patients ) ; infection rate , 2.5 % ( seven patients ) ; and removal secondary to infection , 1.7 % ( five patients ) . based on this 10-year experience , mersilene mesh remains our material of choice for chin augmentation . 
abnormal differentiation of human papillomavirus-induced laryngeal papillomas . we studied the proliferation and differentiation of human laryngeal papillomas , which are benign tumors induced by human papillomaviruses . immunofluorescent stains of tissues for a number of differentiation-specific proteins showed abnormal differentiation . papilloma tissue fragments in vitro showed a slightly decreased fraction of proliferating cells that incorporated tritiated thymidine and a markedly reduced incorporation of tritiated uridine when compared with normal tissue . we propose that papillomavirus infection results in normal basal cell proliferation but abnormal terminal differentiation and that this abnormality significantly contributes to the hyperplasia of the papillomas . 
functional upper airway obstruction in adolescents . functional upper airway obstruction is an uncommon manifestation of a conversive reaction characterized by recurrent stridor attacks caused by adduction of the vocal cords during inspiration . the oxygen saturation never drops to pathologic levels . the stridor is not accompanied by an appropriate degree of anxiety and is not associated with other symptoms . patients benefit from verbal reassurance and speech therapy , but stridor attacks tend to recur and psychiatric consultation seems necessary in most cases . we present the case histories of three adolescent patients with nonorganic upper airway obstruction and describe the features that may facilitate the diagnosis of this condition . early diagnosis and intervention may prevent unnecessary and potentially harmful investigations and therapy . 
aberrant origin of the right coronary artery as a potential cause of sudden death : successful anatomical correction . a man with an aberrant right coronary artery and haemodynamically important prolapse of the mitral valve was successfully resuscitated . the aberrant right coronary artery was thought to be a possible cause of the cardiopulmonary arrest in this patient . both lesions were corrected at a single operation . 
skin manifestations in congenital deficiency of leucocyte-adherence glycoproteins ( cdlg ) . in congenital deficiency of leucocyte-adherence glycoproteins ( cdlg ) there is an immunodeficiency with impaired leucocyte function and cutaneous and extracutaneous infections occur . in more than 30 % of cases the condition has a fatal course . we report the skin manifestations of three siblings with cdlg in which areas of skin necrosis occurred that resembled pyoderma gangrenosum . 
induction of mixed erythroid-megakaryocyte colonies and bipotential blast cell colonies by recombinant human erythropoietin in serum-free culture . the effects of recombinant human erythropoietin ( rep ) on murine hematopoietic progenitors were studied using a serum-free culture . a high concentration of rep stimulated the formation of mixed erythroid-megakaryocyte colonies ( em colonies ) and blast cell colonies , as well as erythroid colonies , erythroid bursts , and megakaryocyte colonies from normal mouse bone marrow cells . direct effects of rep on em colony , megakaryocyte colony , and erythroid burst formation were confirmed by depletion of accessory cells such as t cells , b cells , and macrophages from crude bone marrow cells , and inhibition of the colonies by the addition of rabbit anti-rep antibody to the culture in a dose-dependent fashion . replating experiments were performed to confirm the differentiating ability of blast cell colonies grown in the presence of rep. most of the blast cell colonies yielded not only secondary erythroid colonies but also megakaryocyte colonies in the presence of 2 iu/ml rep. some of the blast cell colonies produced secondary em colonies in the presence of 16 iu/ml rep of 2 iu/ml rep plus interleukin-3 , although no granulocyte-macrophage colonies were found in the secondary culture . these results suggest that ep acts not only as a late-acting factor that is specific for erythroid progenitors , but also as a bipotential em-stimulating factor for murine hematopoietic cells . 
a new monoclonal antibody ( ch-f42 ) recognizes a cd7 - subset of normal t lymphocytes and circulating malignant cells in adult t-cell lymphoma-leukemia and sezary syndrome . we describe a new rat immunoglobulin m monoclonal antibody ( ch-f42 ) that recognizes a subset ( 1.5 % to 8 % ) of normal peripheral blood t lymphocytes . the phenotype of these cells was determined , using dual-color immunofluorescence , to be cd2 + , cd3 + , cd4 + , cd5 + , cd7 - , cd8 - . they do not express t-cell activation markers , and are positive for uchl1 ( cd45ro ) , but negative for 2h4 ( cd45ra ) . the antigen was expressed on circulating malignant cells in sezary syndrome ( four of four cases ) and adult t-cell lymphoma-leukemia ( atll ) ( four of six cases ) and negative in a variety of other hematologic malignancies tested . these included chronic and acute lymphoid leukemias of b and t lineage , together with chronic and acute myeloid leukemias . however , normal ch-f42 + cells do not display any of the ultrastructural features associated with sezary or atll cells . the marked similarities between these conditions together with the shared expression of an otherwise very restricted surface antigen ( ch-f42 ) provide strong evidence for the existence of a common normal counterpart . preliminary characterization studies of the antigen , which is also expressed by k562 and jurkat cells , suggest the ch-f42 antigen is an o-linked , sialated glycan on a glycoprotein . 
characterization of a factor-dependent acute leukemia cell line with translocation ( 3 ; 3 ) ( q21 ; q26 ) . a strictly factor-dependent cell line ( ucsd/aml1 ) was established from a patient with the syndrome of multilineage acute leukemia with high platelets . the patient 's cells and the cell line karyotype were 45,xx,-7 , t ( 3 ; 3 ) ( q21 ; q26 ) , typical of the syndrome of acute leukemia with high platelets . the cell line expresses cd34 , cd7 , tdt , and myeloid ( cd13 , cd14 , cd33 ) and megakaryocyte/platelet ( cd36 , cd41 , cd42b , cdw49b ) antigens . in short-term culture , ucsd/aml1 cells proliferate in response to interleukin-3 ( il-3 ) , il-4 , il-6 , macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( m-csf ) , and granulocyte-macrophage csf ( gm-csf ) , but not il-1 , il-2 , il-5 , or g-csf . in long-term culture , proliferation can be sustained by gm-csf , il-6 , or m-csf . when maintained in gm-csf , a small percentage of cells form multinucleated megakaryocyte-like giant cells . culture with gm-csf combined with il-6 , but not with il-6 alone , increased giant cell formation fourfold to sevenfold . il-6 alone or in combination with gm-csf increased expression of platelet-related antigens . in contrast , culture with phorbol ester induced formation of macrophage-like cells . ucsd/aml1 is the first human acute nonlymphocytic leukemia cell line established from a patient with an acute leukemia syndrome associated with a specific chromosome abnormality . 
expression of transcobalamin ii receptors by human leukemia k562 and hl-60 cells . plasma membrane receptors for the serum cobalamin-binding protein transcobalamin ii ( tcii ) were identified on human leukemia k562 and hl-60 cells using immunoaffinity-purified human tcii labeled with [ 57co ] cyanocobalamin . the bmax values for tcii receptors on proliferating k562 and hl-60 cells were 4,500 and 2,700 per cell , respectively . corresponding dissociation constants ( kd ) were 8.0 x 10 ( -11 ) mol/l and 9.0 x 10 ( -11 ) mol/l . rabbit tcii also bound to k562 and hl-60 cells but with slightly reduced affinities . calcium was required for the binding of transcobalamin ii to k562 cells . brief treatment of these cells with trypsin resulted in almost total loss of surface binding activity . after removal of trypsin , surface receptors for tcii slowly reappeared , reaching pretrypsin treatment densities only after 24 hours . reappearance of receptors was blocked by cycloheximide . tcii receptor densities on k562 and hl-60 cells correlated inversely with the concentration of cobalamin in the culture medium . this suggests that intracellular stores of cobalamin may affect the expression of transcobalamin receptors . nonproliferating stationary-phase k562 cells had low tcii receptor densities ( less than 1,200 receptors/cell ) . however , the density of tcii receptors increased substantially when cells were subcultured in fresh medium . up-regulation of receptor expression coincided with increased 3h-thymidine incorporation , which preceded the resumption of cellular proliferation as measured by cell density . in the presence of cytosine arabinoside , which induces erythroid differentiation , k562 cells down-regulated expression of tcii receptors . when hl-60 cells were subcultured in fresh medium containing dimethysulfoxide to induce granulocytic differentiation , the up-regulation of tcii receptors was suppressed . this event occurred well before a diminution of 3h-thymidine incorporation and cessation of proliferation . thus , changes in the regulation of expression of tcii receptors correlate with both the proliferative and differentiation status of cells . 
reproduction of transfusion-related acute lung injury in an ex vivo lung model leukoagglutinins are implicated in transfusion-related acute lung injury ( trali ) . in the present study , severe lung vascular leakage was reproduced by application of a leukoagglutinating antibody of anti-5b specificity in an ex vivo lung model . the antibody originated from a multiparous donor-plasma , observed to cause noncardiogenic edema during transfusion therapy . heated full plasma ( anti-5b-titer 1/128 ) or purified immunoglobulin g fraction was used for the studies . ex vivo isolated rabbit lungs were perfused with albumin buffer , and human granulocytes ( pmn ) were admixed to the recirculating perfusate . in presence of anti-5b antibody plus 5b-positive pmn plus rabbit plasma as complement-source , severe lung edema occurred after a latent period of 3 to 6 hours . pulmonary artery pressure was only transiently and moderately increased , and the leakage reaction could be traced back to a several-fold increase in lung vascular permeability . in contrast , no vascular leakage was noted in lungs perfused in the absence of anti-5b antibody , pmn , or rabbit plasma . moreover , no permeability increase occurred on use of 5b-negative pmn . this reproduction of trali in an ex vivo lung model corroborates the role of leukoagglutinating antibodies in initiating pmn-dependent respiratory distress and suggests a contribution of concomitant complement activation . 
biology and clinical significance of cytogenetic abnormalities in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia . virtually all cases of childhood all have chromosomal abnormalities and half contain translocations , which are nearly equally divided between random and nonrandom rearrangements . nonrandom chromosomal abnormalities have been correlated with leukemic cell lineage , the degree of cell differentiation , and the specific gene involved at the molecular level . many cytogenetic findings have prognostic significance ; however , the adverse influence of certain changes , including most chromosomal translocations , may in fact be offset by the greater cytoreductive effects of intensified therapy . table 4 summarizes the relation of selected karyotypic findings to treatment outcome in patients treated on contemporary protocols . among all of the chromosomal abnormalities identified in childhood all , hyperdiploidy greater than 50 has been associated with the most favorable prognosis . at the opposite end of the spectrum , the treatment outcome for patients with classical ph + or hypodiploid all is very poor even in programs of intensive chemotherapy ; alternative treatment such as bone marrow transplantation should be considered for such patients . cases with the t ( 4 ; 11 ) ( q21 ; q23 ) also have a very poor clinical outcome , but the adverse prognosis may be limited to the infant or adolescent age groups . the prognostic significance of other nonrandom translocations , such as t ( 1 ; 19 ) ( q23 ; p13 ) and several other abnormalities , needs to be further assessed in larger numbers of patients . finally , as more is learned about the molecular pathology underlying these rearrangements , it may be possible to develop new therapeutic agents that are specifically targeted to interfere with the aberrant gene products expressed by human leukemic cells . 
survival of premenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer . long-term follow-up of eastern cooperative group and cancer and leukemia group b studies . in premenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer , differences in survival curves early during follow-up can be misleading . the authors therefore analyzed long-term survival in 378 patients , entered in three randomized trials , started between 1973 and 1978 . combined data from the three trials were used to increase the power for identifying prognostic variables . cancer and leukemia group b ( calgb ) trial 7382 randomized patients to oophorectomy plus either cyclophosphamide or combination chemotherapy or observation . eastern cooperative oncology group ( ecog ) 2174 randomized patients who had not progressed 3 months after oophorectomy to combination chemotherapy or combination chemotherapy or observation . trial ecog 2177 randomized estrogen receptor ( er ) positive or er-unknown patients to oophorectomy plus combination chemotherapy or immediate combination chemotherapy , and er-negative patients were directly assigned to combination chemotherapy . hence er-negative patients need not have been healthy enough to be randomized to oophorectomy . with only 14 % of the patients still alive , median survival on the three studies was 30 , 24 , and 28 months . the median survival of individual treatments changed noticeably in ecog 2174 and ecog 2177 with long-term follow-up . at this time there are no differences in survival between randomized regimens in any of the three trials . in a multivariate model , factors associated with significantly poorer survival were visceral-dominant disease , nodal metastases , breast metastases , age younger than 45 years , er negativity , and not receiving chemotherapy immediately after oophorectomy . this treatment difference was thus not due to imbalances in the prognostic variables used in the model , but it may be due to imbalances of unknown prognostic factors or differences in patient selection . 
the scapegoat effect on food aversions after chemotherapy . the effects of consuming a novel food ( halva ) versus a familiar food ( cookies ) before gastrointestinal ( gi ) toxic chemotherapy on patients ' preference for familiar foods consumed after chemotherapy treatment were compared . the development of aversions to the novel and familiar foods was also assessed . patients with a history of posttreatment nausea consumed either a novel or a familiar food before chemotherapy and were asked to keep a food record through the next breakfast and to rate their preference for these foods . patients who consumed halva before treatment were significantly more likely to increase their ratings for foods consumed after chemotherapy than patients who consumed familiar cookies . aversions to the novel food were significantly more frequent than aversions to the familiar food . these findings provide evidence that a novel but not a familiar food consumed before chemotherapy can act as a scapegoat to prevent items in the regular diet consumed after chemotherapy from decreasing in preference . providing patients with a novel food before chemotherapy is a useful clinical intervention to reduce the likelihood of forming aversions to familiar foods consumed after chemotherapy . 
human papillomavirus type 16 associated with oral squamous carcinoma in a cardiac transplant recipient . human papillomavirus type 16 ( hpv 16 ) has been associated with a variety of squamous carcinomas , particularly those involving the anogenital tract . the authors report the development of an oropharyngeal carcinoma in a 43-year-old man approximately 20 months after cardiac transplantation while he was on a maintenance regimen of cyclosporine a and prednisone . the carcinoma was resistant to treatment , and he died of complications related to metastatic disease 3 years posttransplantation . molecular biologic studies using nonisotopic-labeled viral dna probes were done . in situ hybridization demonstrated the presence of hpv 16 dna in the tumor cells . dna dot blot analysis confirmed the presence of multiple copies of hpv 16 dna within the tumor cells and their absence from adjacent normal-appearing tissue . southern blot analysis suggested that the hpv 16 dna was integrated into the tumor cell genome . with increasing recognition of the carcinogenicity of hpv type 16 infection , a role for this virus in the development of squamous cell malignancies in immunosuppressed organ transplant recipients is likely to be noted with increasing frequency . 
significance of blasts in low-cell-count cerebrospinal fluid specimens from children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia . the purpose of this study was to determine whether the presence of more than 5 % blasts in a differential count of cytocentrifuged cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) with less than 6 leukocytes/microliter was predictive of central nervous system ( cns ) relapse in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) . a double concentrate method of cytocentrifuge preparation was used to analyze 4543 consecutive csf specimens from 349 children with all between january 1 , 1982 , and september 30 , 1988 . one hundred nine csf specimens from 58 evaluable children had less than 6 leukocytes/microliter and more than 5 % blasts on cytocentrifuge differential count ( low-cell-count specimen with blasts [ lcb ] ) . during the study period , 25 of 332 evaluable children ( 7.5 % ) had cns leukemic recurrence . in 22 of 25 ( 88 % ) , the cns relapse was preceded by at least one abnormal low-cell-count csf specimen . one of 34 patients with a single lcb at diagnosis ( 3 % ) had subsequent cns relapse compared with five of eight patients ( 62.5 % ) with a single lcb during remission ( p = 0.0002 ) . of 16 children with two or more lcb during remission , nine ( 56 % ) had cns relapse defined by standard criteria , whereas six additional patients in this group were declared to be in cns relapse on the basis of their repetitive lcb . whether diagnosing cns recurrence earlier in its course based on a modification of the definition of cns leukemia will change the frequency of subsequent adverse events or make possible decreased intensity of cns retreatment remains to be determined . 
multi-hospital eastern atlantic restenosis trial : design , recruitment , and feasibility . m-heart investigators . a randomized control trial was set up to examine factors that influence restenosis and determine the effects of corticosteroids on restenosis following successful ptca . the rationale for the study agent chosen , design , recruitment , and feasibility , as well as initial patient demographic data and initial results are presented . 
fractured and retained guide-wire fragment during coronary angioplasty -- unforeseen late sequelae . during a difficult coronary angioplasty , the tip of the guide wire became inadvertently wedged in a distal vessel , fractured , and retained in situ . because of the otherwise successful nature of the angioplasty and the patient 's great risk for cardiac surgery , it was elected to leave the wire fragment in place . recurrence of symptoms led to recatheterization , which in addition to restenosis of the original angioplasty site showed diffuse narrowing of the arterial segment that contained the retained wire fragment . this occurred despite systemic anticoagulation with coumadin in the interval between procedures . thus retained guide wire fragments in patent coronary arteries may cause arterial narrowing despite systemic anticoagulation . 
klinefelter 's syndrome with anomalous origin of left main coronary artery klinefelter 's syndrome is a rare entity . even rarer is an anomalous origin of the left main coronary artery . for both conditions to occur in the same patient is hence exceedingly rare . reported here is a never previously reported case of a coronary congenital anomaly in a patient with klinefelter 's syndrome together with the proper angiographic approach . 
entrapment of a folded-over introducer sheath in the iliofemoral artery : an unusual complication of ptca guiding catheter exchange an arterial introducer sheath became folded over in the iliac artery during ptca . this probably resulted from withdrawal of a doubled over judkins left coronary guiding catheter through the introducer sheath . nonsurgical , atraumatic removal was accomplished after the acute bend of the introducer sheath had been withdrawn to the site of arterial entrance . 
does percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty accelerate atherosclerotic lesions ? recent reports have suggested that angioplasty may cause or accelerate coronary arterial stenoses secondary to traumatic injury . ninety-four coronary angiograms performed in a 1 yr period were reviewed in patients who had successful coronary angioplasty 6 to 30 mo ( mean 10.7 ) prior to restudy . restenosis was found in 43 of 140 dilated lesions ( 31 % ) and in 41 of 94 patients ( 44 % ) . thirty-three ( 35 % ) patients had new or progressive lesions outside the angioplasty site . new or progressive lesions occurred with similar frequency in the arteries that did not have angioplasty ( 23/155 = 15 % ) as in the arteries that did ( 13/127 = 10 % ; chi-square n.s. ) . in the arteries which underwent angioplasty , new or progressive lesions occurred as commonly proximal to the ptca site ( 7/14 , 50 % ) as distal ( 6/13 , 46 % ) . new or progressive lesions occurred in 29 % of patients with concomitant restenosis , and 40 % of those without restenosis ( chi-square n.s. ) . no clinical , angiographic , or procedural factors distinguished patients with new and progressive lesions in target vessels from those without these lesions in target vessels . patients with progressive lesions anywhere in the coronary tree were more likely to have had a shorter duration of anginal symptoms before angioplasty and a family history of coronary disease when compared with patients without progressive atherosclerosis . in conclusion , new and progressive lesions outside the angioplasty site occur after the procedure but appear unrelated to the restenosis process or traumatic injury by angioplasty instrumentation . 
myocarditis simulating acute transmural myocardial infarction . a patient with cardiogenic shock had typical electrocardiographic findings of acute anterior transmural myocardial infarction . cardiac catheterization revealed normal coronary arteries and severe biventricular failure . postmortem examination confirmed normal coronary arteries ; acute myocarditis , but no evidence for infarction , was found . electrocardiographic changes of myocarditis may be indistinguishable from acute transmural infarction . in suspected cases , cardiac catheterization should be considered prior to thrombolytic therapy . 
salvage from cardiogenic shock by atherectomy after failed emergency coronary artery angioplasty . in this case report of a patient undergoing angioplasty for cardiogenic shock during acute myocardial infarction , recurrent occlusion resulted in recurrence of shock . atherectomy reestablished lasting patency and reversed the patient 's hemodynamic collapse . atherectomy deserves further investigation as a means to salvage vessel patency during unsuccessful coronary angioplasty . 
coronary artery anomalies in 126,595 patients undergoing coronary arteriography . coronary artery anomalies were found in 1,686 patients ( 1.3 % incidence ) undergoing coronary arteriography at the cleveland clinic foundation from 1960 to 1988 . of the 1,686 patients , 1,461 ( 87 % ) had anomalies of origin and distribution , and 225 ( 13 % ) had coronary artery fistulae . most coronary anomalies did not result in signs , symptoms , or complications , and usually were discovered as incidental findings at the time of catheterization . eighty-one percent were " benign " anomalies : 1 ) separate origin of the left anterior descending and circumflex from the left sinus of valsalva ; 2 ) ectopic origin of the circumflex from the right sinus of valsalva ; 3 ) ectopic coronary origin from the posterior sinus of valsalva ; 4 ) anomalous coronary origin from the ascending aorta ; 5 ) absent circumflex ; 6 ) intercoronary communications ; and 7 ) small coronary artery fistulae . other anomalies may be associated with potentially serious sequelae such as angina pectoris , myocardial infarction , syncope , cardiac arrhythmias , congestive heart failure , or sudden death . potentially serious anomalies include : 1 ) ectopic coronary origin from the pulmonary artery ; 2 ) ectopic coronary origin from the opposite aortic sinus ; 3 ) single coronary artery ; and 4 ) large coronary fistulae . coronary artery anomalies require accurate recognition , and at times , surgical correction . 
low-dose sufentanil in major surgery . the purpose of this study was to assess the efficacy of sufentanil 1 micrograms.kg-1 during n2o-o2 and intermittent isoflurane anaesthesia in major non-cardiac surgery . thirty-one patients ( 18 females , 13 males ; mean age 47 yr ) , undergoing cholecystectomy received a 1 microgram.kg-1 bolus of sufentanil before the induction of anaesthesia with thiopentone . on average , three sufentanil increments were administered , to a total ( bolus + maintenance ) dose of 1.5 micrograms.kg-1 . cardiovascular stability was not achieved in eleven patients who then were given isoflurane . the arterial pressure decreased after sufentanil ( p less than 0.05 ) , reaching a nadir ( mean 108/65 mmhg , heart rate 63 bpm ) at one minute post-incision . clinically important hypertension or hypotension did not occur in any patient . one patient , receiving beta-blocker therapy , required atropine to control bradycardia . postoperative respiratory depression did not occur in patients who received less than one micrograms.kg-1 . hr-1 with the last increment being given more than 20 minutes before the end of anaesthesia . slight respiratory depression in the recovery room was reported in one patient , who had received a total of 1.3 micrograms.kg-1 . hr-1 of sufentanil , and the last sufentanil increment 24 min before the end of surgery . the most frequently reported side-effects were nausea ( 35 per cent ) and vomiting ( 23 per cent ) . induction , maintenance and recovery from anaesthesia were rated as " good " in 87 , 87 , and 74 per cent of the cases , respectively , and " satisfactory " in the remainder . we conclude that this technique is valuable to assure good protection of the cardiovascular system without undue respiratory depression during recovery . 
epidural morphine for analgesia after caesarean section : a report of 4880 patients this retrospective study was undertaken to assess the efficacy and safety of epidural morphine in providing analgesia following caesarean section under epidural anaesthesia . the morphine was administered as a single bolus , following delivery , in doses ranging from 2 to 5 mg . the charts of 4880 caesarean sections , performed on 4500 patients , were reviewed . the duration of analgesia and the occurrence of any symptoms which might be side-effects of the epidural morphine were recorded . the duration of analgesia was 22.9 + / - 10.1 hr and was not correlated with the dose of epidural morphine . eleven per cent of the patients required no supplemental analgesia during the first 48 hr . twelve patients ( 0.25 per cent ) had respiratory rates less than 10 breaths per minute , on at least one occasion . no serious sequelae resulted from these periods of bradypnoea . pruritus occurred in 58 per cent of patients , nausea and vomiting in 39.9 per cent and dizziness in ten per cent . herpes simplex labialis was recorded in 3.5 per cent of patients . epidural morphine is thus confirmed as an effective analgesic technique post-caesarean section with 3 mg being the optimal dose . even in this young healthy patient population , clinically detectable respiratory depression occurs so clinical respiratory monitoring is indicated . 
transoesophageal pacing for perioperative control of neonatal paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia . the perioperative management of a 16-day-old infant with recurrent supraventricular tachycardia ( svt ) is discussed . vagal manoeuvres and medication were not adequate in controlling the svt . since the patient was scheduled for extensive surgery in the prone position , it was decided to use transoesophageal pacing as the method of choice for conversion of svt . transoesophageal pacing succeeded several times in overriding the svt and restoring normal heart rate and haemodynamic variables . the advantages and disadvantages of various methods of treating svt in the newborn are discussed . 
epidural anaesthesia for labour and caesarean section in a parturient with a single ventricle and transposition of the great arteries . we describe a case of a 29-year-old parturient with a single ventricle and transposition of the great arteries who had lumbar epidural analgesia/anaesthesia with a local anaesthetic for labour , emergency caesarean section and postoperative pain . her outcome and that of her baby was successful . the anaesthetic techniques used in other parturients with similar congenital cardiac anomalies are reviewed . 
the importance of calcium ions for in vitro malignant hyperthermia testing . intracellular ca + + levels in skeletal muscle are elevated during the in vitro contracture response of muscle from subjects with malignant hyperthermia . the role of ca + + in the bathing medium and the consequences of substitution of sr + + for ca + + in the response to agents associated with malignant hyperthermia were examined . when ca + + was omitted from the bathing medium the contractures induced in human vastus lateralis by halothane ( three per cent ) or succinylcholine ( 50 mm ) were reduced by 80 and 100 per cent , respectively , while contractures induced by caffeine ( 8 mm ) were only reduced by 50 per cent . substitution of ca + + by another divalent cation , sr + + , completely restored contractures induced by caffeine , but only partially restored contractures induced by halothane or succinylcholine ( to 50 and 30 per cent of ca ( + + ) - containing medium , respectively ) . mepacrine ( 10 microm ) was effective in antagonizing contractures by caffeine , whereas verapamil and nifedipine ( 10 microm ) were not . these results support an essential role for extracellular ca + + not fulfilled by sr + + in contracture induction by halothane and succinylcholine , but not by caffeine . 
hospital admissions from the surgical day care centre of vancouver general hospital 1977-1987 . the admissions to vancouver general hospital from its surgical day care centre were reviewed for the period 1977 to 1987 . the overall mean rate of admission for the period was 0.28 per cent , for surgically-related admissions 0.22 per cent and for anaesthesia-related admissions 0.07 per cent . the principal reasons for surgery-related admissions were postoperative bleeding , complications , the need for further surgery , the requirement for prolonged postoperative care , and pain . urology had a particularly high percentage of admissions compared with its workload , because of the diagnostic nature of much of the work . anaesthesia-related admissions included " syncope , " lack of an accompanying adult , aspiration pneumonitis and coincident acute disease . twelve of the 14 patients admitted with syncope had surgery in the afternoon and had received less than ideal amounts of intravenous fluid . seven of the 12 asa physical status ii patients admitted had an admission diagnosis related to the coincident disease . 
myocyte cell loss and myocyte cellular hyperplasia in the hypertrophied aging rat heart . to determine the effects of age on the myocardium , the functional and structural characteristics of the heart were studied in rats at 4 , 12 , 20 , and 29 months of age . mean arterial pressure , left ventricular pressure and its first derivative ( dp/dt ) , and heart rate were comparable in rat groups up to 20 months . during the interval from 20 to 29 months , elevated left ventricular end-diastolic pressure and decreased dp/dt indicated that a significant impairment of ventricular function occurred with senescence . in the period between 4 and 12 months , a reduction of nearly 19 % in the total number of myocytes was measured in both ventricles . in the subsequent ages , similar decreases in myocyte cell number were found in the left ventricle , whereas in the right ventricle , the initial loss was fully reversed by 20 months . moreover , from 20 to 29 months , a 59 % increase in the aggregate number of myocytes occurred in the right ventricular myocardium . in the left ventricle , a 3 % increment was also seen , but this small change was not statistically significant . these estimations of myocyte cellular hyperplasia , however , were complicated by the fact that cell loss continued to take place with age . the volume fraction of collagen in the tissue , in fact , progressively increased from 8 % and 7 % at 4 months to 16 % and 22 % at 29 months in the left and right ventricles , respectively . in conclusion , myocyte cellular hyperplasia tends to regenerate the ventricular mass being lost with age in the adult mammalian rat heart . 
is fibrillation chaos ? ventricular fibrillation is examined to determine whether it is an instance of deterministic chaos . surface ecgs from dogs in fibrillation were used to generate a state space representation of fibrillation . our analysis failed to identify a low-dimensional attractor that could be associated with fibrillation . the results suggest that fibrillation is similar to a nonchaotic random signal . we note , however , that such random-looking but nonchaotic behavior can also be generated by a nonlinear deterministic system . 
increased ischemic injury but decreased hypoxic injury in hypertrophied rat hearts . the purpose of this study was to compare the degree of ischemic and hypoxic injury in normal versus hypertrophied rat hearts to investigate basic mechanisms responsible for irreversible myocardial ischemic injury . hearts from rats with bands placed on the aortic arch at 23 days of age ( band ) and sham-operated rats ( sham , 8 weeks postoperative ) were isolated , perfused with krebs buffer , and had a left ventricular balloon to measure developed pressure . hearts were made globally ischemic until they developed peak ischemic contracture and were reperfused for 30 minutes . additional hearts were perfused for 15 minutes with glucose-free hypoxic buffer followed by 20 minutes of oxygenated perfusion . there was an 87 % increase in heart weight of band compared with sham ( p less than 0.01 ) . during ischemia , lactate levels increased faster in band compared with sham , ischemic contracture occurred earlier in band than in sham despite no difference in atp levels , and postischemic recovery of left ventricular pressure was less in band ( 26.8 + / - 5.6 % of control left ventricular pressure , mean + / - sem ) compared with sham ( 40 + / - 4.6 % , p less than 0.05 ) . during hypoxic perfusion , lactate release was greater in band than in sham ( 48.8 + / - 1.2 versus 26.6 + / - 0.97 mumols/g , p less than 0.01 ) , and with reoxygenation , lactate dehydrogenase release was less in band than in sham ( 13.2 + / - 0.7 versus 19.5 + / - 0.2 iu/g , p less than 0.01 ) . after hypoxia and reoxygenation , left ventricular pressure recovery was greater in band than in sham ( 93 + / - 8.4 % versus 66 + / - 5.3 % , p less than 0.01 ) . thus , this study suggests that hypertrophied hearts have a greater potential for glycolytic metabolism , resulting in an increased rate of by-product accumulation during ischemia , which may be responsible for the increased susceptibility of hypertrophied hearts to ischemic injury . 
species-dependent effects of adenosine on heart rate and atrioventricular nodal conduction . mechanism and physiological implications . this study 1 ) compares the negative chronotropic and dromotropic actions of adenosine in guinea pig , rat , and rabbit hearts ; 2 ) investigates the mechanism ( s ) for the different responses ; and 3 ) determines the physiological implications . isolated perfused hearts were instrumented for measurement of atrial rate and atrioventricular ( av ) nodal conduction time . differences in metabolism of adenosine were determined in the absence and presence of dipyridamole ( nucleoside uptake blocker ) and erythro-9 - ( 2-hydroxy-3-nonyl ) adenine ( ehna , adenosine deaminase inhibitor ) . dipyridamole plus ehna decreased adenosine 's ec50 for the negative dromotropic effect by 14-fold in guinea pig heart and 1.6-fold in rat heart . this is consistent with the greater number of [ 3h ] nitrobenzylthioinosine binding sites measured in membranes from guinea pig ( 1,231 + / - 68 fmol/mg protein ) compared with rat ( 302 + / - 31 fmol/mg protein ) and rabbit ( 260 + / - 28 fmol/mg protein ) atria . the potency of adenosine to slow atrial rate and prolong av nodal conduction time was greater in guinea pig than in rat or rabbit hearts . this rank order of potency correlated well with the number of binding sites for the specific adenosine receptor radioligand 125i-aminobenzyladenosine in guinea pig ( 102 + / - 13 fmol/mg protein ) , rat ( 11 + / - 0.5 fmol/mg protein ) , and rabbit ( 8 + / - 1 fmol/mg protein ) atrial membranes . hypoxia increased the rate of adenosine release by severalfold and caused slowing of heart rate and av block . in spontaneously beating hearts , the main effect of hypoxia was a slowing of ventricular rate , which in the guinea pig heart was due to av block and in the rat heart to atrial slowing . in atrial paced hearts , hypoxia caused a marked prolongation of av nodal conduction time in guinea pig ( 39 + / - 4 msec ) and rabbit ( 29 + / - 5 msec ) hearts , but only small effect in rat hearts ( 10 + / - 2 msec ) . the differences in response to hypoxia could be accounted for by the species-dependent differences in the 1 ) amount of adenosine released and metabolized , 2 ) sensitivity of the hearts to adenosine , and 3 ) dependency of av nodal conduction on atrial rate . the findings indicate that the results from physiological or pharmacological studies on adenosine in one species may not be applicable to others , and the ultimate effect of adenosine and hypoxia is to slow ventricular rate . 
five-year postoperative results of cemented femoral arthroplasty in patients with systemic bone disease . to determine whether bone cellular abnormality affects the results of cemented femoral arthroplasty , 21 patients had biopsies of the iliac crest and femoral cortex at the time of surgery . roentgenographic and histomorphometric studies were used to characterize fibrous membrane formation , cancellous bone , calcar resorption , and bone turnover . patients with high bone turnover and decreased femoral thickness and density before surgery were at risk of developing calcar resorption and cancellous diaphyses , conditions that weaken proximal stem support and lead to early failure . these findings suggest that noncemented stems may be indicated in this group . another group , osteoporotic patients , suffered from osteoblastic insufficiency , which may be the indication for the use of cemented stems rather than noncemented stems , which require bony ingrowth . 
trochanteric fractures . influence of reduction and implant position on impaction and complications . a review of roentgenograms and charts was made of 532 trochanteric fractures treated by the sliding-screw technique . according to evans ' modified classification , 65 % of the fractures were unstable . there was no breakage or bending of implants . twenty ( 3.8 % ) reoperations were performed because of technical complications or nonunion . the singh index revealed more unstable fractures and technical complications in hips with grades 1-3 than in hips with grades 4-6 . reoperation was more frequent if the screw tip was within 8 mm from the subchondral line in the superolateral quadrant or in the anteroproximal quadrant than if the screw ended farther from the subchondral line . fifty-five ( 10.8 % ) of the lag screws migrated 2 mm or more . postoperatively , the neck-shaft angle decreased more in unstable fractures than in stable fractures . the decrease in neck-shaft angle was less when the proximal fragment impinged medially on the shaft fragment . unstable fractures with this type of reduction also impacted less than hips with anatomic reduction or medial reduction of the shaft fragment . weight bearing did not significantly influence the degree of impaction . 
effects of screws and a sleeve on initial fixation in uncemented total knee tibial components . aseptic loosening of tibial components remains a serious problem in uncemented total knee arthroplasties . achieving rigid initial fixation of porous-coated components is one of the most important factors in promoting bone ingrowth . the results of a biomechanical study for micromovement of the tibial component under posteroanterior shear and axial compressive loading are presented . forty anatomic specimen tibiae were stress tested on a servohydraulic mechanical test machine to evaluate the effects of screws and a sleeve on initial fixation of the uncemented total knee tibial component . twenty specimens were used for posteroanterior shear loading and 20 for anterolateral axial compressive loading . four cancellous screws were inserted through holes of the tibial tray to pierce the cortex of the proximal tibia . the methylmethacrylate sleeve was applied to the central stem . rigidity of fixation was significantly improved by the combination of screws and a sleeve . bone strength was also an important factor affecting the quality of fixation . 
the effect of screws and pegs on the initial fixation stability of an uncemented unicondylar knee replacement . two uncemented unicompartmental tibial components were examined for initial fixation stability . a conventional design that employed a single posteriorly angled peg was compared with a new design that was held in place by cancellous bone screws . the components were implanted into the medial condyles of 12 preserved human tibiae , and a cyclic load was first applied anteromedially and then posteromedially . the screwed implants failed at significantly higher loads ( 1634.8 + / - 121.6 n , mean + / - standard error of the mean ) than the pegged implants ( 1103.3 + / - 152.0 n ) . on application of a 19.6-n preload , the screwed implants moved significantly less than the pegged implants . although the differences in micromotion and subsidence were not always significant , there were definite trends . the screwed implants had much lower levels of temporary and permanent displacement compared with the pegged implants for all load levels from the initial load of 245.2 n up to and including the failure load . when the motion that resulted from moving the load from the anterior position to the posterior position was examined , the screwed implant 's average total motion was less than 10 microns compared with almost 135 microns for the pegged implant after the 245.2-n load cycle . for the cycle before failure , the screwed implant 's average motion increased to less than 29 microns , whereas the pegged implant 's average total motion was almost 354 microns . from this information it appears clear that screws provide better initial fixation stability than angled pegs for uncemented unicondylar tibial components . 
the value of indium 111 leukocyte scanning in the evaluation of painful or infected total knee arthroplasties . evaluation of painful total knee arthroplasties ( tkas ) for infection can be difficult . indium 111 ( 111in ) leukocyte bone scanning provides a minimally invasive technique for evaluation of possible infection . thirty-eight patients with a painful tka who had surgical exploration after 111in leukocyte scanning were reviewed . the scan had an accuracy of 84 % , a sensitivity of 83 % , and a specificity of 85 % . the 111in leukocyte scans must be interpreted in conjunction with the clinical evaluation of the patient because they are less accurate for study of tkas than of total hip arthroplasties . 
factors influencing the results of open reduction and internal fixation of tibial plateau fractures . forty-three displaced tibial plateau fractures were treated with open reduction and internal fixation . the fractures were classified into four groups , and the clinical results were evaluated using a standard 100-point knee rating system . the average follow-up period after surgery was 2.7 years . overall there were 35 excellent , five good , three fair , and no poor results . in five of eight knees with a less than excellent score , the results were due to the technique of fracture fixation or the absence of a bone graft . there were ten postoperative complications , but only one ultimately affected the clinical result . fourteen patients required removal of implants . roentgenographic analysis showed that six knees had mild degenerative changes , two had moderate , and two had severe degenerative changes . there was no statistically significant association between the fracture type and a less than excellent result . the absence of bone grafting , however , was associated with a less than excellent result . bicondylar fractures had a mean range of motion of 110 degrees , 18 degrees less than that of all other types of fracture combined . 
influence of postmortem time and temperature on osteoinductive activity of demineralized microperforated ethylene oxide-sterilized syngeneic bone implant in the rat . bone morphogenetic protein is labile and easily inactivated by many extracorporeal factors . it is crucial to establish whether delay in retrieval of donor bone and ambient holding temperature of the donor body influence osteoinductivity of bone left in situ . of ten adult rats that were killed , five were kept at 4 degrees and five at room temperature . femurs were harvested at 24 , 36 , 48 , 72 , and 168 hours . after processing , segments were implanted in 20 four-week-old syngeneic rats for 14 days . the level of osteoinduction was evaluated histologically . it was excellent in the 4 degrees group in the 24 - , 36 - , and 48-hour specimens but less advanced at 72 hours . bone taken from the room temperature group showed findings identical to those kept at 4 degrees through 36 hours , but osteoinduction was less advanced at 48 hours and absent at 72 hours . no bone formed at 168 hours in either temperature group . the following observations were made . ( 1 ) osteoinductivity of demineralized bone left in situ after death was unexpectedly stable . ( 2 ) retrieval time was extended by donor cooling . ( 3 ) microperforated demineralized bone actively induced new bone formation . ( 4 ) ethylene oxide does not inhibit osteoinduction when correctly applied for sterilization . if confirmed in humans , retrieval of bone to be used for osteoinduction could be delayed for some hours , particularly if the donor was immediately refrigerated . this would increase the effective number of bone tissue donors and utilize an undeveloped resource . 
growth abnormalities in children with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis . growth abnormalities in juvenile rheumatoid arthritis can be divided into two groups : local and systemic . local disorders of growth often result in increased bone length and bone age or in marked decreases in longitudinal growth due to immobilization , premature epiphyseal closure , or fusion . common growth defects seen in the knee , hand , wrist , hip , spine , and jaw are discussed . systemic growth delay is most commonly secondary to active disease or treatment with corticosteroids . nutritional aspects such as decreased appetite , reduced caloric intake , metabolic caloric requirements greater than available intake , or lack of essential vitamins could be the cause for decreased weight and stature . 
ocular complications of rheumatic diseases of childhood . the association between inflammatory ocular and articular disease is a strong one , although the pathogenesis of this relationship is obscure . for the physician or surgeon caring for children with chronic arthritis , awareness of the risk of chronic asymptomatic anterior uveitis is essential if early diagnosis , treatment , and prevention of visual impairment are to be accomplished . this is particularly true for children with pauciarticular-onset juvenile rheumatoid arthritis or psoriatic arthritis . acute symptomatic anterior uveitis is characteristic of disorders such as ankylosing spondylitis . whereas this disease is initially more unpleasant for the child , it has a good long-term prognosis . 
a three-year retrospective study of synovectomies in children . the aim of this study was to evaluate the results of synovectomies in children with juvenile arthritis . five hundred twenty-eight synovectomies and tenosynovectomies were performed over a period of 13 years . the patients were followed for one , two , three , five , and ten years postoperatively . the evaluation after three years was chosen as the basis for this article . one hundred twenty-five children with arthritis who were not evaluated three years postoperatively had less severe arthritis , both locally and generally , than the evaluated group of 389 . the rate for good results and tolerability was high at one , two , and three years postoperatively but decreased with time ; more patients went from good results to poor rather than vice versa . global assessment , soft-tissue swelling , and limitation of movement seemed to be the best parameters for evaluating the results of synovectomies . it appears necessary to wait at least three years to evaluate the long-term effect of synovectomies . 
combined laminoplasty and posterolateral fusion for spinal canal surgery in children and adolescents . spinal deformities , especially kyphosis and instability , after laminectomy for tumors and other diseases , are major clinical problems . since 1981 , combined laminoplasty and posterolateral fusion for the prevention of postlaminectomy spinal deformities was performed on eight male and two female patients aged two to 26 years ( average , 13.9 years ) . the follow-up period was from six months to seven years and three months ( average , three years and five months ) . two patients died six and ten months postoperatively because of brain metastases ( astrocytoma ) and lung metastases ( neuroblastoma ) , respectively . good alignment with no instability of the cervical or thoracic spine was obtained for all patients , including the two who died . laminoplasty combined with posterolateral fusion was found to be very effective in preventing the development of spinal deformities after spinal canal surgery for spinal cord tumors or other diseases in children and adolescents . 
febrile infants less than eight weeks old . predictors of infection . febrile infants less than eight weeks old frequently are admitted and receive parenteral antibiotics for treatment of possible sepsis . the authors assess 52 infants less than eight weeks old with a rectal temperature of 38.1 degrees c or higher as having either a readily identifiable focus of infection by physical examination , appearing " toxic " without a focus , or appearing well . the authors screened patients by using white blood cell ( wbc ) counts , erythrocyte sedimentation rate ( esr ) , c-reactive protein ( crp ) , and chest radiographs in addition to blood , cerebrospinal fluid and urine cultures . the authors found a 9.6 % incidence of bacteria in the 52 infants evaluated , with a 4.3 % incidence in those febrile infants who appeared well . five patients had positive blood cultures with group b b hemolytic streptococcus ( four patients ) , and viridans streptococcus ( one patient ) . a clinical assessment of toxicity and a total band count greater than or equal to 0.5 x 10 ( 3 ) cells/ul together were sensitive indicators of bacteremia , as were toxicity and a positive crp . a " toxic " appearance , a wbc count greater than or equal to 15 x 10 ( 3 ) cells/ul and an esr greater than 30 were specific indicators of bacteria . based on these data , identification of bacteremia in febrile infants may be possible with clinical assessment and screening laboratory tests . because of the relatively small sampling size of this study , the authors feel that evaluation of a larger number of patients is warranted to evaluate these sensitivities in a more diffuse patient population . 
underlying illness associated with failure to thrive in breastfed infants . over a four-year period in a suburban pediatric practice , 38 infants aged six months or less were identified with failure to thrive ( ftt ) while breast-feeding . in seven cases ( 18.4 % ) , an associated organic illness was diagnosed . only 2 of 28 breast-fed neonates ( 8 % ) were found to have ftt associated with another illness , as compared to 5 of 10 older infants ( 50 % ) . breast-fed infants with ftt , particularly those presenting after the first month of life , should be considered high risk for having other disease . their clinical evaluation should include an appropriate search for organic illnesses . 
gastrointestinal bleeding in a 15 month old male . a presentation of munchausen 's syndrome by proxy . munchausen 's syndrome by proxy is a well-described entity that may not always be immediately considered in a complicated case . we describe this syndrome being portrayed through the guise of gastrointestinal bleeding in a 15 month old male and discuss not only the difficulty involved in solidifying this diagnosis but also the consequences that may occur should this diagnosis not be entertained . failure to diagnose munchausen 's syndrome by proxy often results from failure to consider the diagnosis . these cases frequently have specific characteristics that allow seasoned clinicians to suspect the diagnosis . once the diagnosis is considered , it is crucial to take steps to protect not only the index patient but also siblings who not infrequently are also recipients of this life threatening form of child abuse . 
inflammatory nodular reactions after hepatitis b vaccination due to aluminium sensitization . in 2 patients , pruritic nodules appeared after revaccination against hepatitis b. aluminium was found to be responsible for this side effect : contact allergy to aluminium was present in both patients , whereas controls were negative . 
use of a computerized closed-loop sodium nitroprusside titration system for antihypertensive treatment after open heart surgery . this study evaluates the clinical applicability of administering sodium nitroprusside by a closed-loop titration system compared with a manually adjusted system . the mean arterial pressure ( map ) was registered every 10 and 30 sec during the first 150 min after open heart surgery in 20 patients ( group 1 : computer regulation ) and in ten patients ( group 2 : manual regulation ) . the results ( 16,343 and 2,912 data points in groups 1 and 2 , respectively ) , were then analyzed in four time frames and five pressure ranges to indicate clinical efficacy . sixty percent of the measured map in both groups was within the desired + / - 10 % during the first 10 min . thereafter until the end of observation , the map was maintained within + / - 10 % of the desired set-point 90 % of the time in group 1 vs. 60 % of the time in group 2 . one percent and 11 % of data points were + / - 20 % from the set-point in groups 1 and 2 , respectively ( p less than .05 , chi-square test ) . the computer-assisted therapy provided better control of map , was safe to use , and helped to reduce nursing demands . 
rapid admixture blood warming : technical advances . the technique of rapid admixture blood warming of cold erythrocyte units is designed to warm erythrocyte units rapidly ( less than 30 sec ) while simultaneously providing saline for dilution . however , questions have been raised about the recommended use of a standard 250-ml bolus of 70 degrees c admixture saline , the uniformity and speed of blood unit warming , the difficulties inherent in keeping saline bags at 70 degrees c , and the safety of the methodology . to answer these questions , a series of tests were performed and modifications of the technique were introduced . the mean weight of 1000 successive units of erythrocytes for adult infusion was 305 g ( range 220 to 410 ) . the maximum temperature was 44 degrees c , using an internal temperature probe ( 1-cm temperature gradations ; 2-sec recording intervals ) when the smallest unit was admixed with a 250 ml 70 degrees c saline bolus ; the largest unit had a minimum temperature of 30 degrees c. plasma hgb , osmotic fragility , and k of the minimum size erythrocyte unit showed no significant deviation from its control . both thermographic photographs and the internal temperature recordings of the erythrocyte units demonstrated that solely due to fluid turbulence , uniform mixing occurs within approximately 30 sec of beginning the admixture process . inverting the blood units caused a thermal layering of fluids and an unacceptable maximum blood temperature of 50 degrees c. there was no difference between the mixing time or efficacy in the presence of standard or large-bore iv tubing or additional in-line filters . volumes of the 250-ml saline bags for admixture decreased markedly with deviations in electrolyte composition after greater than 2 wk at 70 degrees c. 
kinin/prostaglandin system : its therapeutic value in surgical stress . multiple system organ failure as a consequence of injury or sepsis remains the major reason for death in critically ill patients . one of the treatment concepts that has recently attracted clinical attention is the administration of kinins and prostaglandins ( pgs ) . on the basis of experimental data , there is reason to believe that these compounds may have the potential to manipulate favorably certain processes and mechanisms ( such as inflammatory or ischemic reactions ) thought to be important in the pathophysiology of surgical stress . however , thus far , information on those effects in humans is still scarce . on the other hand , administration of kinins and pgs is technically possible and can be performed safely , even in intensive care patients . therefore , different techniques , effects , and side-effects of kinin/pg therapy deserve clinical testing . it remains to be seen whether this concept will be useful in the treatment of critically ill surgical patients . 
transient mitral regurgitation due to mitral valve prolapse accompanied by systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve . a grade 4/6 systolic murmur , systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve ( sam ) , and severe mitral regurgitation ( mr ) documented by two-dimensional doppler echocardiography developed suddenly on the structurally normal heart of a patient with idiopathic portal hypertension . the patient did not have signs of congestive heart failure and the aforementioned phenomenon disappeared completely when the patient was in hepatic failure . this could be explained by a change in circulating blood volume either by gastrointestinal hemorrhage or hepatic failure . 
the effect of prolonged hypothermia on cardiac function in a young patient with accidental hypothermia . a 20-year-old man had accidental , prolonged , and severe hypothermia . serial radionuclide ventriculography disclosed reduced myocardial contractility during hypothermia that resolved after warming . the effects of hypothermia on cardiac function are discussed . 
resolution of the adult respiratory distress syndrome following colectomy and liver transplantation . a 32-year-old woman with liver failure from end-stage cirrhosis and ulcerative colitis developed septicemia and severe ards . subtotal colectomy and a successful liver transplantation resulted in complete resolution of the ards . 
pathologic involvement of the left ventricle in chronic cor pulmonale . to determine whether or not the left ventricle is pathologically involved in patients with chronic cor pulmonale , right and left ventricular weights , wall thickness , myocyte diameters , and percentage of fibrosis in 18 autopsied hearts were examined in patients with chronic pulmonary disease ( cpd ) ; ten had right ventricular hypertrophy on their electrocardiograms , and eight were without right ventricular hypertrophy . five with extracardiopulmonary disease were used as controls . the weight of the right ventricle was significantly increased in cpd when compared to control subjects . walls of both ventricles were significantly thicker in cpd . myocyte diameters of both ventricles were significantly greater in cpd . the percentage of fibrosis in the right ventricle was significantly greater in cpd . the percentage of fibrosis in the left ventricle was significantly greater only in patients with right ventricular hypertrophy . we concluded that the left ventricle was also involved pathologically in patients with chronic cor pulmonale in the end stage of the disease . 
esophageal contribution to chest pain in patients with coronary artery disease . we conducted a prospective study to determine the role of the esophagus in causing chest pain in patients with established cad on optimum therapy . thirty-two men with documented cad who complained of frequent and usually daily retrosternal chest pain were evaluated . following a standard esophageal manometry and acid perfusion test , simultaneous two-channel ambulatory holter monitor and esophageal ph record tests were performed for 24 hours . fifty-three episodes of chest pain were documented in 20 patients ; 11 patients were free of pain . of the 20 patients who complained of chest pains , 17 ( 85 percent ) demonstrated at least one episode of ppr , defined as a drop in distal esophageal ph to less than 4 within ten minutes before or after the onset chest pain . episodes of asymptomatic ger were common . the correlation of ppr with chest pain was 70 percent ( 37/53 episodes ) and of ischemic ecg changes with chest pain 13 percent ( 7/53 ) ; in the remaining , there was no correlation with either . two patients demonstrated simultaneous ppr and ischemic ecg changes . seventeen esophageal motility abnormalities were observed in 14 patients ( 45 percent ) . it is our conclusion that esophageal disorders contribute to chest pain in patients with documented cad . in this group , ger plays a greater role than in those with normal coronary arteries . in addition , esophageal motility disorders are common in these patients . esophageal testing can be undertaken safely in these patients . 
intravenous and oral corticosteroids for the prevention of relapse after treatment of decompensated copd . effect on patients with a history of multiple relapses to determine if a regimen of intravenous and oral corticosteroids reduces the relapse rate after treatment of decompensated copd in the ed , 30 patients were studied . forty-five visits in which intravenous and oral corticosteroids were given ( t visits ) were compared with an equal number of matched visits in which they were withheld ( n visits ) . no differences were noted between t and n visits with respect to clinical findings , laboratory results and other forms of therapy . treatment with corticosteroids reduced the relapse rate within 24 h of discharge . at 48 h , the cumulative relapse rate for t visits ( 8.9 percent ) was significantly lower than for n visits ( 33.3 percent ; p = 0.005 ) . for patients with a history of multiple relapses , a regimen consisting of intravenous and oral corticosteroids reduces the risk of relapse after ed treatment of decompensated copd . 
lung sound nomenclature survey . we report the terms used by 223 pulmonary physicians and 54 physicians in other specialties to describe eight recorded examples of lung sounds . the participants listened to the lung sounds at the 1988 american college of chest physicians annual convention and wrote " free form " answers . pulmonary physicians used the terms " crackles " and " rales " with equal frequency to describe discontinuous adventitious lung sounds ( als ) and not at all to describe continuous als . other physicians preferred the term " rales " in describing discontinuous als . the terms " wheeze " and " stridor " were used only in describing continuous als ; however , the term " rhonchi " was frequently used to describe continuous and discontinuous als . the majority of participants recognized the normal breath sounds but not the pleural friction rub . most did not use a qualifying adjective to describe als , and there was little agreement among those who did . the lung sound terminology used by physicians is not well standardized and the recommendations of the ats/accp nomenclature subcommittee are not widely accepted . 
predicting failure following shunting of pleural effusions . we placed 43 shunts in 34 patients in five years . twenty-four had malignant effusions and ten had benign effusions . thirty-one patients had unilateral shunts , three had bilateral shunts and six required revisions for shunt failure . two patients died after shunt placement from disease progression . of the nine patients who experienced poor results , one was noncompliant in operating the shunt and eight had occluded shunts . in the 30 patients , who were compliant and had adequate length of follow-up , five had excellent results , 12 had good results , and five had fair results . two of the patients with occluded shunts had good results after shunt revision ; 24 patients had some symptomatic relief with shunting . evaluation of factors including a history of prior abdominal surgery , performance status , and pleural fluid cell counts , differential , chemistries , and cytology revealed no significant differences between the patients who experienced shunt failure and those who had patent shunts . shunting of pleural effusions is well tolerated and has good success rates in properly selected patients . 
laryngomalacia in children . two hundred three ( 68 percent ) of 297 children with laryngomalacia had associated respiratory disorders by flexible fiberoptic bronchoscopy ( ffb ) . associated disorders included congenital respiratory anomalies , a variety of anatomic obstructions of the upper and lower airways , and aspiration disorders . mean age for isolated laryngomalacia ( type 1 ) was 11.5 weeks ( range , 5 weeks to 4 months ) while children with laryngomalacia and associated respiratory disorders ( type 2 ) had a mean age of 9.06 years ( range , 6 weeks to 18 years ) . we conclude the following : ( 1 ) complete evaluation of the pediatric airways ( bronchoscopy ) is recommended in every symptomatic child with diagnosis of laryngomalacia confirmed by laryngoscopy ; ( 2 ) type 1 laryngomalacia was more common in early infancy while type 2 laryngomalacia was associated with older age ; ( 3 ) although type 2 laryngomalacia is the most common endoscopic diagnosis in our experience , the majority of cases were associated with lower airway dysfunction . 
three mixed venous saturation catheters in patients with circulatory shock and respiratory failure thirty-one critically ill patients with acute respiratory failure and circulatory shock were divided into three groups . group 1 included 11 patients with an inserted mixed venous saturation ( svo2 ) catheter using three-reference wavelengths and characterized by one transmitting and one detecting fiberoptic filament ( oximetrix opticath catheter ) ; group 2 included eight patients with an inserted svo2 catheter using two-reference wavelengths and characterized by one transmitting and one detecting fiberoptic filament ; ( edwards sat-one catheter ) ; group 3 included 12 patients with an inserted svo2 catheter using two-reference wavelengths and characterized by one transmitting and two detecting fiberoptic filaments . once calibration procedures were performed , svo2 measured by the catheter and by an hemoximeter osm 3 ( reference value ) were compared following each therapeutic intervention . over a period of 1.5 to 6 hours during which the hematocrit value remained unchanged , 119 measurements were obtained in group 1 , 91 in group 2 and 181 in group 3 . the dispersion of svo2 values was much more pronounced with the two-reference wavelength systems using either one or two detecting fiber optic filaments , and the correlation coefficient was significantly higher with the three-reference wavelength system ( r = 0.970 for the oximetrix catheter vs r = 0.855 for the edwards catheter and r = 0.826 for the spectramed catheter , p less than 0.001 ) . after 24 hours , the spontaneous drifts in the two-reference wavelength systems , using either one or two detecting fiber optic filaments ( expressed as the svo2 value measured by the catheter minus the reference svo2 value ) were significantly higher than the spontaneous drift in the three-reference wavelength system ( 9.3 + / - 7 percent for the edwards catheter and + / - 6 + / - 4.1 percent for the spectramed catheter vs 3.3 + / - 3.1 percent for the oximetrix catheter , p less than 0.05 ) . this study shows that a three-wavelength system is more accurate than a two-wavelength system for measuring acute changes in svo2 . the addition of a second detecting fiber optic filament does not seem to improve the accuracy of the system when svo2 changes occur in conditions of stable hematocrit . 
the effects of methoxamine and epinephrine on survival and regional distribution of cardiac output in dogs with prolonged ventricular fibrillation this study compares the effects of methoxamine , a pure alpha 1-agonist , and epinephrine on cerebral and myocardial blood flow , central hemodynamics , and survival in a randomized placebo-controlled fashion during prolonged ventricular fibrillation ( vf ) in a canine model . twenty-four anesthetized and ventilated adult mongrel dogs were instrumented for regional blood flow determinations using radio-labeled microspheres . the dogs were randomized to receive either 20 mg of methoxamine as a single intravenous bolus or repeated boluses of 0.02 mg/kg of epinephrine , 0.2 mg/kg of epinephrine , or normal saline solution placebo beginning at three minutes following induction of vf and initiation of closed chest cardiac massage ( cccm ) . organ blood flow measurements were determined during normal sinus rhythm and after five and 20 minutes of vf . all six dogs receiving methoxamine were successfully resuscitated in contrast to only one in each of the epinephrine-treated groups and none of the dogs receiving placebo ( p less than .01 ) . although epinephrine was associated with significantly higher blood pressures than placebo during cardiopulmonary resuscitation ( cpr ) , blood pressures achieved with methoxamine were significantly higher than those observed in the other three treatment groups ( p less than .001 ) . cerebral blood flow was significantly higher with both methoxamine and high-dose epinephrine ( p less than .05 ) . mean left and right ventricular myocardial flows were highest with methoxamine but this did not achieve statistical significance . in contrast , organ flows measured in the animals receiving the lowest dose of epinephrine were not significantly higher than those associated with placebo . cardiac output after 20 minutes of cpr was significantly lower with high-dose epinephrine than with methoxamine or placebo ( p less than .05 ) . our results suggest that methoxamine significantly improves regional cerebral blood flow and survival during cpr and although high-dose epinephrine is associated with comparable improvements in regional cerebral blood flow , this treatment is associated with deterioration in central hemodynamics during prolonged vf and does not enhance survival . 
preoperative radiotherapy in operable rectal cancer . the effect of preoperative radiotherapy ( 31.5 gy in 3.5 weeks ) in operable rectal cancer was examined with respect to resectability and prognosis after two surgical procedures , abdominoperineal resection , or low anterior resection . preoperative radiation did not influence the surgeon 's selection of low anterior resection , which was similar ( 40 percent ) in each group . radiation improved five-year survival probability and decreased the incidence of local recurrence significantly after low anterior resection . in contrast , no improvement of treatment results was found in patients treated by abdominoperineal resection after radiotherapy . 
palliative operations for colorectal cancer . a review of 96 consecutive patients who underwent palliative surgery for primary colorectal cancer was undertaken to clarify the value of palliation achieved with surgical treatment . the overall rate of postoperative mortality was 8 percent ( 8 of 96 ) and the overall rate of postoperative morbidity was 24 percent ( 23 of 96 ) . the mortality rate was 5 percent ( 3 of 66 ) after resective surgery and 17 percent ( 5 of 30 ) after nonresective surgery . three deaths were related to the malignant disease , three were related to the intra-abdominal infection , and two were related to formation of intestinocutaneous fistulas . of the 8 patients who died , 1 had a tumor with local visceral involvement only and 7 had a tumor with more distant spread . median survival was 10 months for all patients , 15 months for patients treated with resective surgery , and 7 months for nonresected patients . five patients ( 5 percent ) have survived for longer than 5 years . the median relief of preoperative cancer symptoms was 4 months ( 4 months after resective surgery and 1 month after nonresective surgery ) . twenty-five patients have undergone second surgery . it is concluded that palliative resective surgery for colorectal cancer can improve patient comfort with an acceptable postoperative mortality rate when cancer growth is localized and in favorable cases with more distant spread , whereas nonresective surgery fails to achieve symptom relief . 
rectal bleeding . patient delay in presentation . patient delay in presentation of rectal bleeding has been identified as a factor in delayed diagnosis among patients with colorectal cancer . the aim of this study was to identify demographic or psychological factors , or beliefs or behaviors related to delay in presentation of rectal bleeding . in 93 patients presenting with this symptom to their general practitioner , delay ranged from 0 to 249 days with a median of 7 days ; 27 ( 29 percent ) delayed more than 14 days . delay was unrelated to age , sex , ethnic origin , competence in english , length of schooling , social status , availability of social support , measured psychologic traits , and to the belief that the cause might be cancer . the proportions delaying more than 14 days were statistically significantly elevated among those who were not worried by the bleeding ( 47 percent delayed ) ; those who did not regularly look at their feces or the toilet paper after use ( 37 percent ) ; and those who took some other action before presenting to their general practitioner ( 43 percent ) . 
crohn 's disease and pregnancy . seventy-eight pregnancies in 50 patients were reviewed to evaluate the effects of crohn 's disease on the outcome of pregnancy and the influence of the pregnancy on the course of crohn 's disease . overall , 21 pregnancies ( 27 percent ) had abnormal outcomes including spontaneous abortions ( 9 ) , infants small for gestational age ( 6 ) , premature infants ( 5 ) , and infants who developed respiratory distress ( 1 ) . eight ( 50 percent ) patients with active disease compared with 13 ( 21 percent ) patients with inactive disease at conception had abnormal outcomes ( p less than 0.05 ) . during pregnancy 15 ( 55 percent ) with active disease and 6 ( 12 percent ) with inactive disease had an abnormal outcome ( p less than 0.001 ) . neither medical nor surgical treatment , independent of disease activity , appeared to affect the outcome adversely . eighteen of 73 ( 25 percent ) patients with quiescent or mild disease relapsed , and seven of 16 patients with some disease activity improved ( 44 percent ) . of 34 patients on medication , nine relapsed ( 27 percent ) , and of 39 patients not on medication , nine relapsed ( 24 percent ) ( p = n.s. ) . these results suggest that the outcome of pregnancy is not adversely affected by crohn 's disease . however , patients with active disease at conception and/or during the pregnancy have poorer outcomes independent of the use of medication or requirement of surgery . neither pregnancy nor medications taken affect the course of the disease . 
anorectal malignant melanoma in sweden . report of 49 patients . clinicopathologic features and prognosis of 49 patients with anal malignant melanoma were investigated in the total swedish population between 1970 and 1984 . median age was 71 years ( range , 50 to 87 years ) , and there was a female predominance ( 31 females , 18 males ) . the most common symptom at presentation was bleeding . the majority of tumors ranged between 2 and 5 cm in diameter and all invaded at least into the submucosa and/or the lamina propria . at diagnosis , one third of the patients had either regional or distant metastasis with a median survival of 5 months . the remaining patients were surgically treated with curative intent , either by abdominoperineal resection ( apr ) or local excision . median survival was poor in both treatment groups ( apr , 12 months ; local excision , 13 months ) . most patients died with distant metastasis . our results confirm the opinion that apr offers no more curative potential than a more conservative surgical approach . however , tumor sizes were on average smaller in the group treated by local excision . this could indicate that , in the absence of known distant metastasis , radical surgery should be performed , particularly since local recurrences tended to be more common after a local excision . 
short-term chemoprophylaxis with ceftizoxime vs. five-day aminoglycoside with metronidazole in ' contaminated ' lower gastrointestinal surgery . in a prospective , open , randomized controlled trial , 173 patients requiring surgery for potentially " contaminated " lower gastrointestinal surgery were allocated to receive either two doses of ceftizoxime ( 2 gm ) with one dose of metronidazole ( 1.5 gm ) or gentamicin 3 mg/kg/day for five days with one dose of metronidazole ( 1.5 gm ) . eighty-nine patients received ceftizoxime and 84 patients received gentamicin . the groups were comparable with respect to diagnosis , procedure , type of anastomosis , and wound closure . the incidence of withdrawal due to failure to respond to the study drug ( 11.5 percent ) was equivalent in the two groups . there was no difference in the overall incidence of postsurgical infection between the ceftizoxime and metronidazole group ( 22.2 percent ) and the gentamicin and metronidazole group ( 25.7 percent ) . the incidence of wound infection ( ceftizoxime and metronidazole , 6.9 percent ; gentamicin and metronidazole , 10 percent ) and deep sepsis ( ceftizoxime and metronidazole , 15.3 percent ; gentamicin and metronidazole , 15.7 percent ) was similar . 
healing of experimental intestinal anastomoses . parameters for repair . anastomotic dehiscence remains a major complication in surgery of the large bowel , and studies on the healing sequence of experimental anastomoses are necessary to define underlying mechanisms and find ways to improve surgical outcome , particularly in high-risk situations . for the quantitative description of anastomotic repair , both mechanical and biochemical parameters are employed , each with their own limitations . mechanical parameters , either bursting pressure or breaking strength , only reflect growing anastomotic strength as long as disruption occurs within the anastomotic area , which is less than one week after surgery for the bursting pressure and probably up to two weeks for the breaking strength . the biochemical description of anastomotic repair has been limited to behavior of collagen , as represented by its rather unique constituent amino acid hydroxyproline . conclusions based on collagen concentrations -- per unit weight -- should be considered with caution since they may change as a consequence of changes in noncollagenous substances . in this respect , collagen content , per unit length , is probably a better parameter to describe anastomotic collagen levels . few investigations have addressed the quality of collagen ( e.g. , crosslinking or type ) . since , at this time , no distinct correlations have been demonstrated between development of mechanical strength or occurrence of leakage and collagen levels in the healing anastomosis , attention should not be restricted to a description of the quantity of collagen present : the quality of anastomotic collagen should be investigated , perhaps even more so . 
gastric dysrhythmias following pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy . possible mechanism for early delayed gastric emptying . transient delayed gastric emptying is reported as a frequent complication following pancreas-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy ( ppw ) . we placed serosal electrodes on the stomach of a patient undergoing ppw . myoelectric recordings were obtained postoperatively and correlated with simultaneous radionuclide liquid gastric emptying studies . the patient developed early postoperative gastric atony , associated with frequent gastric dysrhythmias . these dysrhythmias may have been exacerbated by a perihepatic abscess . the gastric dysrhythmias correlated with alterations in liquid gastric emptying . gastric dysrhythmias may be a mechanism for gastric dysfunction in the early postoperative period . 
behavioral modification of colonic function . can constipation be learned ? we challenged the two hypotheses : first , that defecation can be suppressed for an extended time , and second , if so , that this has an effect on upper colonic motility . thus we studied 12 male volunteers with conditions of identical nutrition and patterns of physical activity over a two-week period , where one week with normal defecation and one week with voluntary prolonged suppression of defecation followed each other in randomized order . frequencies of defecation , stool weights , total and segmental colonic transit times ( using radiopaque markers ) were compared . frequency of defecations and stool weights were lower during suppressed defecation [ 8.9 + / - 0.66 vs 3.7 + / - 0.41 ( mean + / - se ) bowel movements per week , p = 0.003 , and 1.30 + / - 0.09 vs 0.98 + / - 0.13 kg/week , p = 0.01 ] . total transit times were increased from 28.8 + / - 4.4 to 53.1 + / - 4.3 hr , p = 0.004 . segmental transit times were increased in the rectosigmoid ( from 8.83 + / - 3.6 to 32.1 + / - 5.6 hr , p = 0.04 ) and right hemicolon ( from 14.5 + / - 0.9 hr to 19.7 + / - 1.5 hr , p = 0.02 ) by suppression of defecation . we conclude that defecation habits may induce changes in colonic function such as those seen in constipation and that functional anorectal outlet obstruction may , probably by reflex mediation , affect the right colon . 
irritable bowel syndrome in women having diagnostic laparoscopy or hysterectomy . relation to gynecologic features and outcome . we identified irritable bowel syndrome ( ibs ) in 47.7 % of 86 women having diagnostic laparoscopy for chronic pelvic pain , 39.5 % of 172 women having elective hysterectomy , and 32.0 % of 172 controls age-matched for the hysterectomy group ( p = ns ) . constipation and pain subtype ibs were more common in hysterectomy patients than controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . in laparoscopy patients , dyspareunia was more common in those with ibs than in those without it ( p less than 0.05 ) . in the hysterectomy group , more ibs patients had chronic pelvic pain ( p less than 0.005 ) , and abnormal menses ( p less than 0.01 ) . chronic pelvic pain was more frequently the only prehysterectomy diagnosis in ibs patients ( p less than 0.05 ) , and ibs was present more often when pain was a reason for hysterectomy ( p less than 0.01 ) . one year after laparoscopy , ibs patients gave lower overall status ratings ( p less than 0.01 ) and lower pain improvement ratings ( p less than 0.05 ) than non-ibs patients . in women who had a hysterectomy for pain , there was less pain improvement one year later in those with the pain subtype of ibs than in non-ibs patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . ibs is associated with gynecologic symptoms and affects the symptomatic outcome of diagnostic laparoscopy and hysterectomy . 
fertility after contraception or abortion . there is a very small correlation , if any , between the prior use of ocs and congenital malformations , including down 's syndrome . there are few , if any , recent reports on masculinization of a female fetus born to a mother who took an oc containing 1 mg of a progestogen during early pregnancy . however , patients suspected of being pregnant and who are desirous of continuing that pregnancy should not continue to take ocs , nor should progestogen withdrawal pregnancy tests be used . concern still exists regarding the occurrence of congenital abnormalities in babies born to such women . the incidence of postoperative infection after first trimester therapeutic abortion in this country is low . however , increasing numbers of women are undergoing repeated pregnancy terminations , and their risk for subsequent pelvic infections may be multiplied with each succeeding abortion . the incidence of prematurity due to cervical incompetence or surgical infertility after first trimester pregnancy terminations is not increased significantly . asherman 's syndrome may occur after septic therapeutic abortion . the pregnancy rate after treatment of this syndrome is low . the return of menses and the achievement of a pregnancy may be slightly delayed after ocs are discontinued , but the fertility rate is within the normal range by 1 year . the incidence of postpill amenorrhea of greater than 6 months ' duration is probably less than 1 % . the occurrence of the syndrome does not seem to be related to length of use or type of pill . patients with prior normal menses as well as those with menstrual abnormalities before use of ocs may develop this syndrome . patients with normal estrogen and gonadotropin levels usually respond with return of menses and ovulation when treated with clomiphene . the rate for achievement of pregnancy is much lower than that for patients with spontaneous return of menses . the criteria for defining pid or for categorizing its severity are diverse . the incidence of pid is higher among iud users than among patients taking ocs or using a barrier method . the excess risk of pid among iud users , with the exception of the first few months after insertion , is related to sexually transmitted diseases and not the iud . women with no risk factors for sexually transmitted diseases have little increased risk of pid or infertility associated with iud use . there appears to be no increased risk of congenital anomalies , altered sex ratio , or early pregnancy loss among spermicide users . all present methods of contraception entail some risk to the patient . the risk of imparied future fertility with the use of any method appears to be low . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
high dietary fiber and low saturated fat intake among oligomenorrheic undergraduates . numerous functional risk factors are associated with the occurrence of secondary amenorrhea in young women . less is known regarding factors associated with the more prevalent problem of oligomenorrhea . we have evaluated nutrient intake , body composition , perceived psychological stress , 24-hour urinary cortisol , and urinary c peptide ( ucp ) in 35 eumenorrheic , 11 mildly oligomenorrheic , and 10 oligomenorrheic nonathletic undergraduate women . nutrient intake was evaluated by a validated food frequency questionnaire . oligomenorrheic women were found to consume significantly more dietary fiber , crude fiber , and polyunsaturated fat , and significantly less saturated fat than their eumenorrheic classmates . oligomenorrheic women had significantly lower 24-hour ucp excretion than mildly oligomenorrheic women . the groups did not differ in any aspect of body composition , body weight , age of menarche , perceived psychological stress , or urinary cortisol excretion . the data suggest that higher intake of fiber and lower intake of saturated fat may be associated with oligomenorrhea among otherwise healthy undergraduate nonathletic women . 
secondary hypogonadism in hemochromatosis . hemochromatosis is a rare disorder of iron storage . this report illustrates a case of hypogonadotropic-hypogonadism in a female with biopsy-proven hemochromatosis . dynamic pituitary and gonadal testing revealed subnormal gonadotropin responses to gonadotropin-releasing hormone ( gnrh ) but normal ovarian reserve , as shown by normal follicular stimulation with hmg . thus , abnormalities of ovulation and menstruation in patients with hemochromatosis are most likely because of inadequate pituitary responsiveness to gnrh . 
hla-dq beta sequence polymorphism and genetic susceptibility to iddm . the analysis of hla-dq beta nucleotide sequence polymorphism in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) patients and control subjects suggests a role for the dq beta-chain in genetic susceptibility . sequence determination and oligonucleotide hybridization was carried out on enzymatically amplified dna from various hla-dr-typed individuals , including the rare class of dr2 + patients . in the analysis of dq beta variation in dr4 , drw6 , and dr2 haplotypes , a correlation was observed between the presence of the negatively charged residue asp at position 57 and low susceptibility and the presence of an ala ( dr4 ) , val ( drw6 ) , or ser ( dr2 ) and higher susceptibility . however , important exceptions to this pattern have been identified in the analysis of heterozygous dr1/4 iddm patients . in these individuals , susceptibility appears to correlate with specific dr beta l alleles ( dw4 ) on the dr4 haplotype , rather than with the dq beta allele ( dqb3 .2 ) that contains ala at position 57 . the dq beta alleles found in some chinese iddm patients also proved discordant with the position-57 correlations . thus , although there is a general correlation between the residue at position 57 of the dq beta-chain and iddm susceptibility , these data do not support the notion that asp 57 confers complete resistance or protection to iddm . in general , these results suggest that iddm susceptibility is conferred by specific combinations of dq beta and dr beta sequences . 
a unified hypothesis for the complex genetics of hla associations with iddm . our understanding of the role of hla genes associated with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) is in disarray , despite recent improvements in the definition of specific alleles and haplotypes . some genes are highly associated with iddm , other genes are associated with resistance to iddm , and some highly associated susceptibility genes are markedly influenced by trans-associated synergistic effects ( dr3/4 heterozygotes ) or protective effects ( dr2/4 heterozygotes ) . this plethora of genetic associations has spawned the notion that there are many contributing susceptibility genes , which , in turn , has led to the search for shared structural features among different genes on iddm-associated haplotypes . from a more mechanistic point of view , however , the wide range of variable iddm associations , with both cis - and trans-encoded protective and/or synergistic effects , suggests a different approach . this article proposes a hypothesis in which the different hla associations with iddm can be simply explained by a single unifying concept : a hierarchy of affinities determines the interaction between a diabetogenic peptide and different class ii molecules , and an individual is susceptible to iddm if the class ii molecule in that individual with the highest affinity for such a peptide is a dq beta susceptibility gene . the explicit formulation of this proposal and its genetic implications provide an explanation for hla-encoded dominant " protection " and for some of the more subtle genetic observations related to cis and trans influences in iddm susceptibility . 
studies on autoimmunity for initiation of beta-cell destruction . vi . macrophages essential for development of beta-cell-specific cytotoxic effectors and insulitis in nod mice . nod mice were treated with silica ( which is selectively toxic to macrophages ) from 4 or 20.5 wk of age . syngeneic neonatal pancreases were transplanted into the renal subcapsular space of the nod mice at 21 wk of age . silica treatment was continued until 24 wk of age , and then the mice were killed for examination of islet morphology . neither the islets in transplanted pancreases nor the host pancreatic islets from the early long-term silica-treated animals revealed insulitis . in contrast , most of the islets in transplanted pancreases from the late short-term silica-treated animals showed severe insulitis and beta-cell necrosis , as did the host islets . a further experiment was performed to compare the effect of late short-term silica treatment with that of anti-l3t4-antibody treatment of the same time and duration . in contrast to the late short-term silica-treated animals , the transplanted pancreases in the anti-l3t4-antibody-treated animals revealed intact islets , although most of the host islets showed insulitis . the control group , which received no treatment but did receive neonatal pancreases , revealed severe insulitis and beta-cell necrosis of both transplanted and host islets . these results suggest that early macrophage depletion can abolish the development of beta-cell-specific immunologic effectors but that late macrophage depletion , after the development of insulitis , does not affect the destruction of beta-cells by preexisting effectors other than macrophages . we conclude that macrophages are essential for the development of beta-cell-specific cytotoxic effectors in the initial phase of insulitis in nod mice . 
analysis of 24-hour esophageal pressure and ph data in unselected patients with noncardiac chest pain . fourty-four unselected patients with noncardiac chest pain were studied using conventional manometry with additional edrophonium provocation and 24-hour ambulatory esophageal ph and pressure recording with a system developed by our group . new , fully automated techniques of statistical analysis of the complete set of esophageal pressure and ph signals were used to examine the temporal relation between pain , esophageal motility disturbances , and gastroesophageal reflux . the analysis used the 97.5 th percentile of amplitude and duration of all esophageal contractions in each patient as well as a chi 2 test of the distribution of contraction types to determine whether a pain episode was related to abnormal motility or not . the edrophonium test results were positive in 2 patients . only 25 patients ( 56.8 % ) had at least one pain episode ( total , 111 episodes ) during 24-hour recording . thirty-three percent of the pain episodes were related to reflux and 23.4 % to abnormal motility , and 43.2 % were not related to an esophageal function disturbance . in the patient-oriented analysis in this study , it was required for a positive correlation that the symptom index ( percentage of related pain episodes ) was higher than 75 % . it was found that the pain was related to reflux in 2 patients ( 4.6 % ) , to reflux and motor abnormalities in 4 ( 9.2 % ) , and to motor abnormalities in 2 patients ( 4.6 % ) . in 36 patients ( 81.8 % ) , no relation with an esophageal abnormality could be established , either because the patients had no pain during the 24-hour study , or because the pain seemed unrelated to reflux or abnormal motility . 
multipolar electrocoagulation versus injection therapy in the treatment of bleeding peptic ulcers . a prospective , randomized trial . this study prospectively compares multipolar electrocoagulation and injection therapy in high-risk patients with bleeding ulcers . patients were considered for entry if they had a bloody nasogastric aspirate , melena , or hematochezia and unstable vital signs , transfusion of greater than or equal to 2 u of blood in 12 hours , or a decrease in hematocrit of greater than or equal to 6 % in 12 hours . sixty patients with endoscopic evidence of an ulcer with active bleeding ( n = 26 ) or a nonbleeding visible vessel ( n = 34 ) were randomly assigned to receive multipolar electrocoagulation or injection with absolute ethanol . hemostasis was achieved in 14 of 14 actively bleeding patients with multipolar electrocoagulation vs. 10 of 12 ( 83 % ) treated with injection . no significant differences were observed between electrocoagulation and injection therapy in any parameter assessed during the hospitalization : incidence of further bleeding ( 6 % vs. 10 % ) , units of blood transfused after treatment ( 1.8 + / - 0.6 vs. 1.3 + / - 0.4 ) , incidence of surgery for bleeding ( 6 % vs. 7 % ) , length of hospital stay in days ( 5.8 + / - 0.9 vs. 7.2 + / - 2.5 ) , cost of hospitalization ( +7160 + / - +1630 vs. +8520 + / - +2960 ) , or mortality rate ( 3 % vs. 3 % ) . treatment induced bleeding in nonbleeding visible vessels in 35 % of subjects in each group , but this was controlled with continued treatment in all patients . one delayed perforation occurred 9 days after multipolar electrocoagulation . multipolar electrocoagulation and injection therapy are of comparable efficacy in the treatment of patients with clinical evidence of a major upper gastrointestinal bleed and endoscopic evidence of an ulcer with active bleeding or a nonbleeding visible vessel . 
evolution of fundic argyrophil cell hyperplasia in nonantral atrophic gastritis . fundic argyrophil cells were studied for a mean period of 68.7 months ( range , 11-170 ) in 18 patients with fundic atrophic gastritis and achlorhydria . initially , 12 patients had hyperplasia of the argyrophil cells , the severity of which was assessed using a semiquantitative classification based on the number of argyrophil clusters per square millimeter . at the end of the study , the degree of hyperplasia was unchanged in 9 patients , had decreased in 2 , and had increased in 1 ; no significant increase in the number of argyrophil clusters , precarcinoid changes , or carcinoid tumors were observed and the high level of gastrinemia [ mean , 4.8 ( range , 1.9-8 .1 ) times the upper limit for normal ) did not change significantly . of the 6 patients with no hyperplasia at the outset of the study , 4 continued without hyperplasia and 2 presented a low-grade hyperplasia at the 20th and 130th month . gastrinemia increased significantly in the last patient and stayed normal in the other 5 . this study argues in favor of the stable appearance of fundic argyrophil cells in patients with atrophic gastritis and stable gastrinemia . 
a small animal model of human helicobacter pylori active chronic gastritis . isolation of a spiral-shaped bacterium closely related to helicobacter pylori from the cat stomach made it possible to investigate new small animal models of gastric infection . pure cultures of this bacterium , provisionally named " helicobacter felis , " were fed to germ-free mice . the organism colonized the stomach in large numbers in mucus and deep in the gastric pits and showed the same gastric trophism found with h. pylori . significant histopathology was seen in all h. felis-infected mice . at 2 weeks postinfection , an acute inflammatory response was seen composed primarily of eosinophils and neutrophils . at 3 weeks , the polymorphonuclear response was more pronounced with large numbers of neutrophils in some areas forming small microabscesses . lymphocytes also increased in number . by 8 weeks , several relatively large lymphoid nodules were present in the submucosa . multiple small microabscesses were still present in the pyloric mucosa . this is the first animal model of bacterial gastritis to be described that shows progression from acute inflammation to persistent acute on chronic inflammation ( active chronic ) as is seen in human infection with h. pylori . 
long-term 6-mercaptopurine treatment in adolescents with crohn 's disease although 6-mercaptopurine is often used to treat adolescents with intractable crohn 's disease , its long-term efficacy has not yet been studied in this population . this study shows data derived from 36 adolescents ( mean age + / - sd , 16.5 + / - 3.3 years ; 27 males , 9 females ) treated at least 6 months with 6-mercaptopurine ( 1.5 mg.kg-1 . day-1 , maximum of 75 mg/day ) . sites of crohn 's disease at the start of 6-mercaptopurine therapy included 17 ileocolic , 9 pancolic , 7 small bowel , and 3 partial colon . all had received corticosteroids , sulfasalazine , antibiotics , and nutritional support for 5.0 + / - 3.0 years before administering 6-mercaptopurine , but intractable symptoms persisted . disease activity lessened during the first year of 6-mercaptopurine , reflected by a higher lloyd-still disease activity score ( pre , 64 + / - 9 vs. 6-mercaptopurine , 72 + / - 11 ; p less than 0.0001 ) . general activity , physical examination , nutrition , and laboratory subscores all improved ( p less than 0.004 ) . lessened disease activity occurred despite concomitant decrease in duration of prednisone use ( pre , 9.5 + / - 4.2 vs. 6-mercaptopurine , 6.6 + / - 4.9 months/year ; p less than 0.001 ) and cumulative annual prednisone exposure ( pre , 3672 + / - 2106 vs. 6-mercaptopurine , 1964 + / - 1460 mg ; p less than 0.0007 ) . the frequency of perianal fistulae and abscesses also decreased ( p less than 0.01 ) during treatment . annual rates of hospitalization decreased in 44 % of subjects during 6-mercaptopurine treatment , while increasing in only 22 % . follow-up beyond 1 year of 6-mercaptopurine treatment showed continued remission in 23 of 30 subjects . no serious complications were seen . 6-mercaptopurine is an effective long-term therapy for adolescents with intractable crohn 's disease . while inducing remission , it also has a significant steroid-sparing effect which may be of particular benefit to this population . 
role of leukotriene b4 in granulocyte infiltration into the postischemic feline intestine . several studies have demonstrated that granulocytes accumulate in the intestinal mucosa following ischemia/reperfusion . it has been suggested that leukotriene b4 may be released during ischemia/reperfusion and consequently may promote granulocyte infiltration into the mucosa . the objectives of this study were to determine whether ( a ) leukotriene b4 is produced in the gut mucosa during ischemia and reperfusion , and ( b ) inhibition of leukotriene b4 attenuates granulocyte infiltration into the postischemic intestinal mucosa . isolated segments of cat intestine were subjected to 3 hours of ischemia and 1 hour of reperfusion . mucosal samples were obtained during baseline , ischemia at 3 hours and reperfusion at 1 hour . leukotriene b4 production was determined by radioimmunoassay . tissue-associated myeloperoxidase activity was used to quantitate granulocyte accumulation in the mucosal samples . in untreated animals , mucosal leukotriene b4 concentration was higher at reperfusion compared with baseline levels . the reperfusion-induced increase in mucosal leukotriene b4 was entirely prevented by pretreatment with either nordihydroguaiaretic acid ( sigma chemical co. , st. louis , mo ) or l663 ,536 ( merck-frosst , montreal , quebec , canada ) , two potent lipoxygenase inhibitors . both lipoxygenase inhibitors , as well as leukotriene b4 antagonist ( sc-41930 ) significantly attenuated the reperfusion-induced infiltration of granulocytes . these results indicate that leukotriene b4 plays an important role in mediating the granulocyte accumulation elicited by reperfusion of the ischemic bowel . 
anorectal function in incontinent patients with cerebrospinal disease . anorectal manometry and the electrical activity of the external anal sphincter were measured in 20 patients with well-defined , incomplete spinal lesions who were referred because of fecal incontinence and in 30 normal subjects . six patients had a high spinal lesion , 11 had a low spinal lesion , and 3 had mixed high and low spinal lesions . patients with high spinal lesions had normal basal pressures but abnormally low squeeze pressures and impaired rectal sensation . unlike normal subjects , there was no relationship between the depth of sphincter relaxation and the distention volumes . the external sphincter responses to rectal distention and increases in intraabdominal pressure were enhanced , and leakage of perfusion fluid was uncommon . patients with low spinal lesions had abnormally low basal and squeeze pressures , blunted rectal sensation , and showed impaired external anal sphincter responses to rectal distention or increases in intraabdominal pressures . most of these patients leaked the infused fluid during these maneuvers . sphincter function in patients with mixed lesions was more severely impaired than in patients with low and high spinal lesions . patients with mixed lesions showed abnormally low basal and squeeze pressures , impaired rectal sensation , and no external anal sphincter responses to either rectal distention or increases in intraabdominal pressure . leakage occurred during these maneuvers in all patients with mixed lesions . 
randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of somatostatin for variceal bleeding . emergency control and prevention of early variceal rebleeding . a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of somatostatin was conducted among 120 patients admitted for bleeding esophageal varices ( 59 placebo , 61 somatostatin ) . an initial 250-micrograms bolus of somatostatin followed by a 5-day continuous infusion of 250 micrograms/h and an identical administration of placebo were evaluated for both the control of bleeding and prevention of early rebleeding from varices . failure to control bleeding occurred in 22 ( 36 % ) somatostatin patients vs. 35 ( 59 % ) placebo patients , with time to failure occurring earlier with placebo ( p = 0.036 ) . blood and plasma transfused per hour during drug infusion of trial drug was reduced in the somatostatin group : median 0.033 vs. 0.105 unit/h ( p = 0.025 ) . use of balloon tamponade was halved in somatostatin-treated patients . the average effect of somatostatin was a 41 % reduction in the hazard of failure ( 95 % confidence interval , -1 % to 65 % , p = 0.0545 ) after adjustment for the severity of liver disease , which was the only other variable having a significant influence on time to failure . there was no difference in 30-day mortality per admission ( 7 placebo , 9 somatostatin ) or complications . it is concluded that somatostatin is safe and more effective than placebo for the control of variceal bleeding . 
hemodynamic events in a prospective randomized trial of propranolol versus placebo in the prevention of a first variceal hemorrhage . in a double-blind randomized trial , the hemodynamic events following the administration of propranolol ( n = 51 ) or a placebo ( n = 51 ) were prospectively studied in cirrhotic patients with esophageal varices . the hepatic venous pressure gradient , heart rate , and variceal size were determined at the baseline and 3 , 12 , and 24 months after the beginning of therapy . baseline values were similar in both groups . at 3 months , the hepatic venous pressure gradient decreased significantly in propranolol-treated patients ( from 18.1 + / - 4.2 to 15.7 + / - 3.4 mm hg ; p less than 0.05 ) but not in patients receiving the placebo ( 19.6 + / - 6.8 to 17.5 + / - 5.3 mm hg ; ns ) . at subsequent time intervals this gradient decreased significantly from the baseline value in both groups . heart rate decreased significantly in the propranolol-treated group at all times ( p less than 0.001 ) . variceal hemorrhage occurred in 13 patients ( 11 placebo - , 2 propranolol-treated ; p less than 0.01 ) , all of whom had a hepatic venous pressure gradient greater than 12 mm hg . in 21 patients ( 14 propranolol - , 7 placebo-treated ) the hepatic venous pressure gradient decreased to less than or equal to 12 mm hg ; none of them bled from esophageal varices , and their mortality rate also decreased . because most of the bleeding events occurred during the first year ( 10 placebo - , 1 propranolol-treated ; p less than 0.01 ) , propranolol seems to have its protective effect during the period associated with the largest reduction in the hepatic venous pressure gradient . because a reduction in the hepatic venous pressure gradient to less than 12 mm hg protects from variceal bleeding and increases the rate of survival , this should be the aim of the pharmacological therapy of portal hypertension . 
immunochemical characterization and quantitative distribution of pancreatic stone protein in sera and pancreatic secretions in pancreatic disorders . a fluorometric immunoassay has been established to quantitate pancreatic stone protein providing a sensitivity for concentrations from 0.015 to 0.5 micrograms/ml . when concentrations of pancreatic stone protein were determined from pancreatic secretions obtained either from patients suffering from chronic pancreatitis ( n = 31 ) [ including the calcifying forms ( n = 10 ) ] , pancreatic cancer ( n = 22 ) , or nonpancreatic diseases ( n = 17 ) , no significant differences were found . in contrast , increased concentrations were found in serum samples from patients with chronic ( 39/66 ) and acute pancreatitis ( 16/20 ) compared with control patients . the differences between these diagnostic groups and controls were highly significant ( p less than 0.0001 ) and independent of pancreatic enzyme activity . immunochemical analyses of serum pancreatic stone protein showed an isoelectric point ( ph 9 ) similar to that reported for the pancreatic thread protein . with respect to recent communications , these data do not support the etiopathogenic role postulated for pancreatic stone protein in chronic pancreatitis and chronic calcifying pancreatitis by other investigators . 
resolution of inferior vena cava syndrome after embolization of a hepatic adenoma . a 77-year-old man presented with severe pruritus and massive lower body edema . computerized axial tomography of the abdomen showed a large hepatic mass compressing the inferior vena cava , and a liver biopsy specimen showed hepatic adenoma . embolization of vessels feeding the hepatic tumor resulted in complete resolution of pruritus and ascites , and clinical remission has persisted for 1 year following partial obliteration of tumor vasculature . angiographic ablation of tumor blood supply represents a nonoperative means for inducing clinical remission in patients with symptomatic hepatic adenoma who are at high surgical risk . 
late recurrence of a hepatocellular carcinoma in a patient with incomplete alagille syndrome . in this study , the case of a patient presenting a second hepatocellular carcinoma 13 years after resection of a first tumor of the same type is reported . in this case , etiological investigations remained negative , but an incomplete form of syndromatic alagille syndrome with paucity of bile ducts in the nontumoral tissue was detected and associated with nodular regenerative hyperplasia and foci of dysplasia . malignant transformation in alagille syndrome seems to be extremely rare . the fact that such tumors evolve very slowly could be an argument for partial hepatectomy and , if necessary , liver transplantation . 
endosonography of peri-anal and peri-colorectal fistula and/or abscess in crohn 's disease . transcolorectal endosonography ( es ) was performed in 36 patients with crohn 's disease suspected clinically to have a fistula or abscess . a hypoechoic or anechoic duct-like lesion immediately adjacent to the anorectal lumen compatible with a fistula was found in 32 patients . a communication between the fistulous tract and adjacent structures such as the skin , anal canal , or vagina was detected in all 32 patients . an anechoic cavity adjacent to or communicating with the fistula was visualized in 29 of the 36 patients . a fistula was visualized in the remaining seven patients with no evidence of an abscess . this anechoic cavity compatible with an abscess was surgically confirmed in 14 of 17 patients . we judged the extent and configuration of the abnormalities to be more clearly visualized by es when results were compared with fistulography in five patients . there were no es complications , and we conclude that es is the preferred diagnostic procedure in patients with peri-rectal pathology because of the low risk of bacterial dissemination and low incidence of patient discomfort . utilizing es after non-surgical treatment was successful in 19 patients for documentation of the response to therapy . 
push-enteroscopy for diagnosis of patients with gastrointestinal bleeding of obscure origin . push-enteroscopy using a disinfected colonoscope was performed on 39 patients with gastrointestinal bleeding of obscure origin . our results show that : ( 1 ) a high percentage of patients ( 38 % ) have pathological lesions responsible for bleeding located in the distal duodenum and proximal jejunum , which are readily detected by push-enteroscopy . ( 2 ) duodeno-jejunal arteriovenous malformations ( avms ) are the most common cause for bleeding , and these lesions can be conveniently cauterized through the endoscope . ( 3 ) an efficient sequence of steps for diagnosis of patients with this problem includes push-enteroscopy when the initial egd and colonoscopy are normal followed by small bowel radiography . mesenteric angiography and intraoperative enteroscopy can be reserved for patients with severe bleeding when push-enteroscopy and small bowel radiography are negative . we conclude that push-enteroscopy has an important role to play in the early assessment of patients with gastrointestinal bleeding of obscure origin . 
endoscopic palliative intubation of the esophagus invaded by lung cancer . thirty-two patients with esophageal involvement by lung cancer were managed by endoscopic intubation . in 22 patients with extrinsic esophageal strictures , the success rate of intubation was 91 % , and 82 % were discharged with their dysphagia relieved and esophageal patency restored . the mean survival rate was 4.4 months . in 10 patients with esophago-bronchial fistulas , 3 had the fistulous tract obliterated and lived a mean of 5 months . this low success rate of closing fistulas is due to failure to seal off the space between the stent and the fistula because of absence of tumor-associated stenosis . the overall morbidity rate was 28.1 % ( 18.8 % perforation , 6.3 % hemorrhage , and 3.1 % tracheal obstruction ) . the overall mortality rate was 18.8 % . although complications were more frequent than in primary esophageal tumors , endoscopic intubation was the only way to palliate this desperate condition and provided 66.6 % of patients with relief of symptoms , nutritional improvement , and a mean survival time of 4.5 months . 
acute hypervolaemia increases gastroduodenal resistance to the flow of liquid in the rat . the effect of volume expansion of extracellular fluid on gastroduodenal resistance to the flow of isotonic saline was assessed in three groups of rats using intravenous infusions of isotonic , isotonic-isoncotic , and isotonic-isoncotic-isohaemic solutions . the gastroduodenal segment of 29 male wistar rats was barostatically perfused at a constant pressure gradient of 4 cm h2o and changes in flow ( ml/minute ) were taken as a reflection of changes in gastroduodenal resistance . isotonic expansion led to a 33 % drop in gastroduodenal flow compared with the normovolaemic period in the same animals ( p less than 0.01 ) . extracellular fluid expansion with isotonic-isoncotic and isotonic-isoncotic-isohaemic solutions was associated with reductions in gastroduodenal flow of 29 % ( p less than 0.05 ) and 31 % ( p less than 0.01 ) respectively . the increase in gastroduodenal resistance is due to hypervolaemia per se and not to haemodilution , decreases in plasma oncotic pressure , or electrolyte imbalance . the effect of hypervolaemia on gastroduodenal resistance , which was reversed by small haemorrhages ( 0.5-1 .0 ml per 100 g body weight ) , may be due to changes in tonus or phasic motor activity , or both , and may be part of the homeostatic processes that help the organism minimise liquid volume excess . 
daytime reduction of gastro-oesophageal reflux after healing of oesophagitis and its value as an indicator of favourable response to maintenance treatment . in order to investigate the response of gastro-oesophageal reflux after medically induced healing of oesophagitis and its relation to the occurrence of relapse during prophylactic treatment , 20 patients with erosive/ulcerative oesophagitis underwent 24 hour oesophageal ph monitoring before and after healing achieved with 12 to 24 week treatment with ranitidine 150 or 300 mg twice daily . compared with pretreatment values , after macroscopic healing , a significant reduction in daytime median percentage of reflux time ( 10.0 v 6.5 ; p less than 0.05 ) and median number of reflux episodes lasting more than 5 minutes ( 5-5 v 1.0 ; p less than 0.05 ) were observed , whereas during night time reflux frequency and severity did not change . during maintenance treatment with ranitidine 150 or 300 mg nocte , five of the six patients , who had shown no improvement in gastro-oesophageal reflux after acute healing , relapsed . these results suggest that , in contrast with previous work , a decrease in gastro-oesophageal reflux in patients with reflux oesophagitis can be achieved after macroscopic healing , and that the occurrence of such a reduction after acute healing is predictive of a good response to longterm treatment . 
referral of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis for liver transplantation . all patients with primary biliary cirrhosis referred to this unit for consideration for transplantation between april 1981 and january 1989 were analysed retrospectively to assess whether disease stage at referral affects the outcome after grafting and whether greater awareness of the benefits of the procedure means that patients are now being referred at an earlier stage . seventy of the 107 patients have been grafted , with an overall one year actuarial survival of 62 % . a better prognosis at the time of referral , as assessed by both serum bilirubin concentration and a mathematically derived prognostic index , was associated with a greater probability of survival after grafting . patients in the tertile with the best prognosis ( median serum bilirubin concentration at referral 84 mumol/l and estimated survival in the absence of transplantation of more than nine months ) had a 78 % one year actuarial survival after transplantation , whereas those in the tertile with the worst prognosis ( median serum bilirubin concentration 467 mumol/l and estimated survival of less than four months ) had a one year actuarial survival of only 50 % . no trend towards earlier referral of patients , however , was shown using either of these two markers . this retrospective analysis suggests that many patients are being referred too late for an optimal outcome . we recommend that patients with primary biliary cirrhosis who are potential candidates for liver grafting should be referred to a transplant centre before the serum bilirubin concentration approaches 150 mumol/l . 
pancreatic duct abnormalities in gall stone disease : an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatographic study . this study was carried out to assess pancreatic duct abnormalities in gall stone disease . endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatograms of 50 patients with gall stone disease were analysed and the results compared with those obtained in 33 patients investigated for cholestatic jaundice who were found to have a normal biliary tree ( control group ) . abnormal pancreatograms were obtained in 24 ( 48 % ) patients with gall stone disease and in only two ( 6 % ) in the control group ; the differences were statistically significant ( chi 2 = 14.3 ; p less than 0.001 ) . the patients in the control group showed mild abnormalities as did those in the gall stone group . the frequency of various abnormalities were : mild 16 ( 32 % ) , moderate five ( 10 % ) , and severe three ( 6 % ) . pancreatic duct abnormalities were more severe and occurred more frequently in patients with gall stones who had stones in the biliary tree than in patients with a normal biliary tree ( postcholecystectomy patients , 55 % v 25 % ) but the difference between the two groups just failed to be significant ( chi 2 = 3.34 ) . in conclusion , nearly half of all patients with gall stone disease have pancreatic duct abnormalities and in 16 % these were severe enough to be labelled as chronic pancreatitis . 
adult hepatic fibropolycystic disease presenting as obstructive jaundice . obstructive jaundice caused by compression of the common hepatic duct by a simple hepatic cyst in a 31 year old europid man is reported . the jaundice and duct compression resolved after percutaneous aspiration of the cyst under ultrasound direction and the patient has been well for 12 months . 
reduction of gastric ulcer recurrence after suppression of helicobacter pylori by cefixime . the effect on the recurrence of gastric ulcers after suppression of helicobacter pylori by combined treatment with cimetidine and the antimicrobial drug cefixime was investigated . twenty one of 43 patients with endoscopically proved gastric ulcer and h pylori infection were randomly assigned to receive cimetidine 800 mg daily for 12 weeks ; the remaining 22 patients received cimetidine 800 mg daily for 12 weeks plus cefixime 100 mg daily for the last two weeks . after treatment , 88 % of 17 patients on cimetidine only remained h pylori positive , whereas combined administration of cimetidine and cefixime had suppressed h pylori in 78 % of 18 patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . seventeen patients in the former group whose ulcers healed but who remained h pylori positive and 18 patients in the latter group whose ulcers healed and who were no longer infected with h pylori continued to be followed after treatment . these patients underwent endoscopy to detect ulcer recurrence if symptomatic , or at 12 and 24 weeks if asymptomatic . at 12 weeks , recurrence was observed in seven of 15 ( 47 % ) patients in whom h pylori persisted , but in only one of 14 ( 7 % ) patients in whom h pylori had been suppressed ( p less than 0.05 ) . at 24 weeks , however , recurrence rates were similar between the two groups . these findings indicate that h pylori infection may be closely related to early ulcer recurrence . 
hbv-dna detection by gene amplification in acute hepatitis b. serum samples from 62 women , inadvertently infected with hepatitis b virus in an in vitro fertilization program , were tested for the presence of hepatitis b virus-dna using the polymerase chain reaction . under conditions of a strict spatial separation of dna extraction , amplification and product analysis , we succeeded in detection of as few as 360 hepatitis b virus particles per milliliter . hepatitis b virus-dna was detected with a high frequency during hbsag and hbeag antigenemia ( 98.5 % ) but also in the convalescent phase after appearance of antibody to hbsag ( 18.2 % ) . however , all patients with hepatitis b virus-dna in convalescent sera were hepatitis b virus-dna negative 3 to 6 mo later . all patients with hbeag-positive samples showed hepatitis b virus-dna positivity by polymerase chain reaction . for acute hepatitis , gene amplification restores the relationship between hbeag and hepatitis b virus-dna observed in serum from chronic hepatitis b patients and calls attention to the prolonged presence of hepatitis b virus-dna in serum after generally accepted criteria for resolution of the infection have been reached . 
changes of serum hepatitis b virus dna and aminotransferase levels during the course of chronic hepatitis b virus infection in children . during a follow-up period of 3.2 + / - 1.6 ( 1 to 8.6 ) yr , 1,087 serum specimens from 230 hbsag carrier children were tested for hepatitis b virus markers . dividing the serum specimens into four groups according to the status of hbeag and hepatitis b virus dna , the frequency of abnormally elevated alt levels in serum was in the following order : hbeag ( + ) / hepatitis b virus dna ( - ) serum ( 60 % ) , hbeag ( - ) / hepatitis b virus dna ( + ) serum ( 53 % ) , hbeag ( + ) / hepatitis b virus dna ( + ) serum ( 41 % ) , hbeag ( - ) / hepatitis b virus dna ( - ) serum ( 11 % ) . analysis of the data before hbeag clearance showed that both a high serum alt level and a low serum hepatitis b virus dna level correlated with an imminent clearance of hbeag . approximately two thirds of children with serum alt levels higher than 100 iu/l cleared hbeag within the following year . clearance of hbeag occurred within the following year in 65 % ( 13 of 20 ) of cases with serum hepatitis b virus dna level less than or equal to 1,000 pg/ml , in contrast to 19 % ( 30 of 157 ) of those with serum hepatitis b virus dna level greater than 1,000 pg/ml . among 53 children who lost hbeag and hepatitis b virus dna during follow-up , only nine cases did not have an identified period of abnormal serum alt levels . for the remaining 44 children , abnormal serum alt levels fell to normal with clearance of both hbeag and hepatitis b virus dna in 33 children but remained elevated in the remaining 11 cases after seroconversion . 
the auditory p300 event-related potential : an objective marker of the encephalopathy of chronic liver disease . recently many variants of electroencephalogram-evoked responses have been studied as potential diagnostic aids in the detection and evaluation of hepatic encephalopathy . this study assesses the value of the auditory p300 event-related potential -- a slow component of the auditory evoked response -- as a tool in this field . twenty-one nonencephalopathic and 12 encephalopathic ( grade 1/2 ) cirrhotic patients and 26 controls were assessed clinically and psychometrically . electroencephalogram spectral analysis and visual evoked response recordings were also conducted . an auditory p300 wave was elicited using the standard two-tone discrimination paradigm . the latency and amplitude of this wave were measured . the latency of the p300 was found to be significantly increased in the encephalopathic patients compared with both nonencephalopathic cirrhotic and control groups ( p less than 0.05 ) . amplitude of the wave was decreased in both nonencephalopathic and encephalopathic patients , but this was not statistically significant . this study suggests that the latency of the p300 is a good marker of grades 1 and 2 clinical hepatic encephalopathy . the delays in the p300 latency may indicate that encephalopathic patients have a deterioration of their stimulus evaluation abilities . 
monomicrobial nonneutrocytic bacterascites : a variant of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . spontaneous bacterial peritonitis is diagnosed when ( a ) the ascitic fluid culture is positive , ( b ) the ascitic fluid neutrophil count is greater than or equal to 250 cells/mm3 and ( c ) there is no evident intraabdominal surgically treatable source for infection . few details are available regarding the variant of ascitic fluid infection in which the culture grows bacteria ( pure growth of a single type of organism ) , but the neutrophil count is less than 250 cells/mm3 . in this prospective study of 138 episodes of culture-positive spontaneously infected ascites detected in 105 patients , 44 ( 31.9 % ) were episodes of " monomicrobial nonneutrocytic bacterascites " compared with 94 ( 68.1 % ) episodes of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . seventeen patients had both types of infection . the infection-related mortality and hospitalization mortality were similar between the two groups . patients with bacterascites appeared to have less severe liver disease . in 62 % of bacterascites episodes in which a second paracentesis was performed before any treatment the fluid spontaneously became sterile without development of ascitic fluid neutrocytosis . thirty-eight percent of patients with bacterascites ( who underwent a second paracentesis before treatment was started ) progressed to spontaneous bacterial peritonitis -- sometimes within a few hours . the concentration of the chemoattractant c5a was not decreased in the ascitic fluid of the bacterascites patients ; this excludes ascitic fluid c5a deficiency as the explanation of the lack of neutrocytosis . monomicrobial nonneutrocytic bacterascites is a common variant of ascitic fluid infection that may resolve without treatment or may progress to spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . 
norfloxacin prevents spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence in cirrhosis : results of a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial . eighty cirrhotic patients who had recovered from an episode of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis were included in a multicenter , double-blind trial aimed at comparing long-term norfloxacin administration ( 400 mg/day ; 40 patients ) vs. placebo ( 40 patients ) in the prevention of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence . at entry , both groups were similar with respect to clinical and laboratory data , ascitic fluid protein and polymorphonuclear concentrations , number of previous episodes of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and causative organisms of the index spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . norfloxacin administration produced a selective intestinal decontamination ( elimination of aerobic gram-negative bacilli from the fecal flora without significant changes in other microorganisms ) throughout the study in six patients in whom the effect of norfloxacin on the fecal flora was periodically assessed . fourteen patients from the placebo group ( 35 % ) and five from the norfloxacin group ( 12 % ) developed spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence during follow-up ( chi 2 = 5.97 ; p = 0.014 ) ( mean follow-up period = 6.4 + / - 0.6 mo ; range = 1 to 19 mo ) . ten of the 14 spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrences in the placebo group and only one of the five spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrences in the norfloxacin group were caused by aerobic gram-negative bacilli ( chi 2 = 8.87 ; p = 0.0029 ) . the overall probability of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence at 1 yr of follow-up was 20 % in the norfloxacin group and 68 % in the placebo group ( p = 0.0063 ) and the probability of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence caused by aerobic gram-negative bacilli at 1 yr of follow-up was 3 % and 60 % , respectively ( p = 0.0013 ) . 
diagnostic value of brush cytology in the diagnosis of bile duct carcinoma : a study in 65 patients with bile duct strictures . malignant strictures of the extrahepatic bile ducts are difficult to distinguish from benign strictures , particularly in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis . because attempts at diagnosing small cancers with fine-needle aspiration biopsy are not possible in the absence of an associated mass lesion and because the sensitivity of exfoliative biliary cytology is controversial , brush cytology has been used as a potential means of establishing a specific diagnosis of bile duct carcinoma . herein we report our experience with this technique when performed on 65 patients over a 5-yr period . each had at least one brushing . thirty-seven were found to have bile duct carcinoma and 28 were found to have benign strictures . of these 37 , the first brushing was positive for malignancy in 15 ( 40 % ) , whereas four ( 11 % ) had cells suspected but not diagnostic of malignancy . thirteen patients with bile duct carcinoma whose initial brushings were negative for malignancy had second brushings . of these , five ( 38 % ) had malignant cells , whereas three ( 24 % ) yielded suspicious cells . three of the eight whose first two brushings were negative for malignancy were found to have malignant cells on the third brushing . in contrast , of the 28 patients with benign strictures , malignant cells were never found . however , in two patients , suspicious cells were reported with the first but not the second brushing . a single negative or suspicious cytological finding decreased the probability of bile duct carcinoma to 43 % . two and three sequential negative tests reduced the probability to 32 % and 0 % , respectively . 
endothelium-derived relaxing factors . a perspective from in vivo data . we review below published studies of endothelium-dependent vasodilation in vivo . endothelium-dependent vasodilation has been demonstrated in conduit arteries in vivo and in the cerebral , coronary , mesenteric , and femoral vascular beds as well as in the microcirculation of the brain and the microcirculation of cremaster muscle . the available evidence , although not complete , strongly suggests that the endothelium-derived relaxing factor generated by acetylcholine in the cerebral microcirculation is a nitrosothiol . the endothelium-derived relaxing factor generated by bradykinin in this vascular bed is an oxygen radical generated in association with enhanced arachidonate metabolism via cyclooxygenase . in the microcirculation of skeletal muscle , on the other hand , the vasodilation from bradykinin is mediated partly by prostacyclin and partly by an endothelium-derived relaxing factor similar to that generated by acetylcholine . basal secretion of endothelium-derived relaxing factor is controversial in vivo but is usually present in vitro . on the other hand , it appears that endothelium-derived relaxing factor mediates flow-dependent vasodilation in both large vessels and in the microcirculation in vivo . the generation and release of endothelium-derived relaxing factor from endothelium may be abnormal in a variety of conditions including acute and chronic hypertension , atherosclerosis , and ischemia followed by reperfusion . several mechanisms for these abnormalities have been identified . these include inability to generate endothelium-derived relaxing factor or destruction of endothelium-derived relaxing factor by oxidants after its release in the extracellular space . these abnormalities in endothelium-dependent relaxation may contribute to the vascular abnormalities in these conditions . 
family recovery after vascular surgery . twenty-one families were observed in a 3-month study to assess family coping with major vascular surgery and recovery . analysis of family measures data ( the family apgar , the family inventory of resource for management , and the family crisis oriented personal evaluation scales ) was combined with grounded theory method to assess family responses over time and recovery outcomes . containment emerged as the major conceptual category of the grounded theory . containment refers to a constellation of constructed meanings for events and behavioral responses used by families to regulate the impact of the surgical crisis and reduce family disruption . this " contained " coping pattern was manifested in families ' avoidant behaviors and narrow definitions of the problem : that is , they defined their situation in terms of the surgical repair as cure rather than palliative intervention for a chronic , progressive disease . situational factors such as the insidious development of the illness and the primary focus of care providers in the hospital on surgical care ( allowing families ' narrow definitions of their situation to remain unchallenged ) also contributed to containment . containment resulted in poor risk factor management as a major recovery outcome . isolation and family conflict were evident throughout the recovery period . concerns generated by continued evidence of morbidity during recovery contributed to a developing awareness of underlying disease , and diminishing containment when this growing awareness was openly shared within the family . significant findings of the family measures analysis were compared with the grounded theory of the qualitative data . each corroborated the other in key dimensions . 
nurse-monitored cardiac recovery : a description of the first 8 weeks . health problems and related patient management during early recovery after cardiac surgery are not well documented . as part of a larger study of recovery from cardiac surgery 75 patient-care giver pairs received telephone calls from nurses at 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 6 , and 8 weeks after discharge for the purpose of intervening to facilitate early recovery at home . after each call , nurses recorded detailed notes on the patients ' progress and concerns . content analysis of detailed nurses ' recordings revealed the following predominant nursing actions : assessment , provision of support , reinforcement of predischarge teaching , referrals , and teaching . the five nursing diagnoses that occurred most frequently across the 8-week recovery period were altered comfort : pain ; ineffective coping , individual ; activity intolerance ; sleep pattern disturbance ; and altered nutrition . in response to these problems , patients managed and prevented health-related problems and engaged in health promotional and normalizing activities . by anticipating common problems in recovery , patients and care givers can be better prepared for going home . similarly nurses can be better prepared to anticipate and respond to common recovery problems . 
mechanical cardiopulmonary support for refractory cardiogenic shock . from february 1982 to february 1990 , 38 patients ( 30 male patients and 8 female patients ) ranging in age from 10 to 78 years ( mean 49.4 years ) have been supported with arteriovenous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ecmo ) at st. louis university medical center as a resuscitative system for cardiac arrest or cardiogenic shock . all patients were unresponsive to conventional resuscitative measures including an intraaortic balloon pump in 25 patients . patients were resuscitated in the intensive care unit , cardiac catheterization laboratory , or the emergency department . diagnosis varied from acute myocardial infarctions ( 12 patients ) , ischemic disease ( 15 patients ) , end-stage cardiomyopathy ( 7 patients ) , congenital heart disease ( 3 patients ) , or postoperative cardiac transplant graft rejection ( 1 patient ) . three patients could not be resuscitated with ecmo because of low flow , but the remaining 35 ( 92 % ) achieved hemodynamic stability with ecmo flows greater than 2 l/min/m2 . duration of support ranged from 0.5 to 130 hours ( mean 28 hours ) . twenty-four patients were successfully weaned from ecmo support after coronary artery bypass ( five patients ) , cardiac transplantation ( two patients ) , or ventricular assist device insertion ( eight patients ) , or with inotropic support ( nine patients ) . of the 14 patients not weaned , three were inadequately resuscitated , two had percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty while receiving ecmo , and nine were not candidates for further intervention . nine ( 24 % ) patients were discharged and are long-term survivors . our results indicate that resuscitative ecmo is useful for intervals of 12 to 24 hours and can best be applied with ( 1 ) patients younger than 60 years of age ; ( 2 ) patients having acute events ( failed percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ) amenable to surgical intervention ; and ( 3 ) candidates for cardiac transplantation who could be switched to more sophisticated devices within 12 to 24 hours of ecmo insertion . with these criteria , ecmo , when used as a resuscitative system , can result in increased survival in selected patients with refractory cardiogenic shock or cardiac arrest . 
pain experiences of intensive care unit patients . the purpose of this study was to describe various dimensions of the pain experiences of intensive care unit ( icu ) patients . a purposive , primarily surgical sample of 24 icu patients from two hospitals was interviewed after transfer from icu . all but one patient remembered their icu stay . although this and six other patients had no recall of pain , 63 % of the sample rated their pain as being moderate to severe in intensity . in a subgroup of nine patients having cardiac surgery , mean morphine sulfate administration during the first three postoperative days was 14 mg/day . this group of patients reported a lack of total pain relief from analgesics . patients also described various sources of their pain , difficulties they had in communicating their pain , and nonpharmacologic methods that helped relieve their pain . results of this study clearly indicate that not only pain but its communication and treatment were significant problems for a substantial portion of this icu sample . further descriptive and experimental research of pain characteristics and treatment practices for icu patients is urgently needed . improvements in nursing practice that result from such research may make a substantial difference in the comfort and well-being of critically ill patients . 
effects of endotracheal suctioning on mixed venous oxygen saturation and heart rate in critically ill adults . the purpose of this multisite study was to determine the effects of endotracheal suctioning on mixed venous oxygen saturation ( svo2 ) and heart rate in 189 critically ill adults . one-pass , intermittent suction was applied for 10 or fewer seconds , with three prehyperoxygenation and three posthyperoxygenation breaths of 100 % oxygen . subjects at three hospitals ( n = 127 ) underwent suctioning using hyperoxygenation with anesthesia bags and traditional suction catheters ( open suction method ) . subjects at one hospital ( n = 62 ) underwent suctioning with hyperoxygenation by ventilator and in-line suction catheters ( closed suction method ) . for subjects from all hospital sites combined , the svo2 decreased from 67 % to 64 % ( p = 0.001 ) , a 4 % change from baseline , and returned to baseline within 2 minutes . however , in subjects receiving the open method of suction , svo2 dropped from 66 % to 62 % immediately after suctioning and returned to baseline within 4 minutes . in contrast , when the closed suction method was used , svo2 rose from 67.7 % to 67.86 % immediately after suctioning , drifting upward to 71 % for the next 2 minutes before dropping toward the baseline after 4 minutes . mean heart rate increased from a baseline of 99 beats/min to 104 beats/min immediately after suctioning ( p = 0.001 ) , a 5 % change from baseline , and gradually returned to baseline over the next 4 minutes . no significant differences were seen in heart rate between subjects having the open versus closed suction method . in conclusion , the closed suction method showed a higher svo2 after endotracheal suctioning compared with the open suction method ( p = 0.0001 ) . some form of hyperoxygenation before and after endotracheal suctioning is recommended . 
evaluating oxygen delivery and oxygen utilization with mixed venous oxygen saturation monitoring : a case study approach . three cases studies are presented to demonstrate clinical application of mixed venous oxygen saturation ( svo2 ) monitoring in critical care nursing practice . examples of critically ill patients are used to demonstrate how svo2 monitoring can be used in clinical practice to reflect an imbalance between oxygen delivery and oxygen utilization . in the first case , the patient had a problem with oxygen delivery . continuous svo2 data aided nurses in guiding , adjusting , and assessing therapy . the second case demonstrates how svo2 monitoring can provide an early sign of a life-threatening complication . the final case is one in which the patient had a problem with oxygen utilization . in all the cases , continuous svo2 data provided important information about the balance between oxygen delivery and oxygen utilization . 
the effect of improved cementing techniques on component loosening in total hip replacement . an 11-year radiographic review . improved cementing techniques have been shown to decrease the rate of aseptic loosening of femoral components of cemented total hip replacements at five to seven years . we now report our results in 105 hips in 93 patients at 10 to 12.7 years ( mean 11.2 ) . the improved techniques included use of a medullary plug , a cement gun , a doughy mix of simplex p and a collared stem of chrome cobalt . only three femoral components had definitely loosened , none were probably loose and 24 were graded as possibly loose . in contrast , the incidence of radiographic loosening on the acetabular side was 42 % . improved cementing techniques have produced a marked reduction in the rate of aseptic loosening of the femoral component , but the incidence of acetabular loosening is unchanged . 
total hip arthroplasty after fracture of the acetabulum . long-term results . we made a retrospective study of 55 primary total hip arthroplasties in 53 patients with a history of previous acetabular fracture . the mean follow-up was 7.5 years and the average age at fracture was 48.7 years . the incidence of radiographic femoral loosening ( 29.4 % ) , symptomatic loosening ( 15.7 % ) , and femoral revision ( 7.8 % ) were similar to those previously reported at 10 years for routine arthroplasties by stauffer ( 1982 ) . on the acetabular side , the incidence of radiographic loosening ( 52.9 % ) , symptomatic loosening ( 27.5 % ) , and revision ( 13.7 % ) were four to five times higher . we conclude that a history of prior acetabular fracture has a significant adverse impact on the long-term outcome of any subsequent total hip arthroplasty . 
blood loss reduced during hip arthroplasty by lumbar plexus block . we measured the blood loss during and after hip replacement in two groups of women , each consisting of 10 patients . in one group the lumbar plexus was infiltrated with bupivacaine , in the other it was not . the group in whom the plexus was blocked had significantly less blood loss . 
simultaneous or staged bilateral total knee replacements in rheumatoid arthritis . a prospective study . in a prospective study of 100 knee arthroplasties in patients with rheumatoid arthritis , simultaneous bilateral surgery was compared with staged bilateral replacements . all patients had improved function following their operations but those who had staged surgery only achieved maximum benefit after the second knee had been replaced . the complication rate was no greater for simultaneous surgery and we therefore advocate the method for those patients who require bilateral replacements . 
the oxford knee replacement . a review from an independent centre . we present a study of 67 oxford bicompartmental total knee replacements performed at a district general hospital . in this general orthopaedic unit , 57 of the knees ( 85 % ) had significant relief of pain with a mean flexion range of 95 degrees and a mean flexion deformity of only 9 degrees . there was a noticeable difference between osteoarthritic and rheumatoid knees . poor results could be directly related to an avoidable postoperative complication . the results of this independent assessment may be compared favourably with the previously published series from the specialist centre at which the prosthesis was designed . 
the hastings bipolar hemiarthroplasty for subcapital fractures of the femoral neck . a 10-year prospective study . in a 10-year prospective study , 561 displaced subcapital fractures of the femoral neck in 546 patients were treated with the hastings bipolar hemiarthroplasty . within six months of their operations , 148 patients had died . in 322 hips followed up , 243 with adequate serial radiographs separated by more than one year , only 14 ( 5.6 % ) showed acetabular erosion . a group of 91 had been reviewed for between three and nine years ( mean , 4 years 10 months ) and of these , 95 % had no pain or slight pain only . comparison with an earlier series of conventional hemiarthroplasties reported from this institution showed that the clinical results were similar , but that the erosion rate had been halved . 
reduction of post-traumatic swelling and compartment pressure by impulse compression of the foot . following the discovery of a powerful venous pump in the foot that is activated by weight-bearing independently of muscular action , a pneumatic impulse device was developed to actuate this pump artificially . in a multicentre international trial the device was shown to reduce post-traumatic and postoperative swelling ; pain also was alleviated . evidence is also presented that dangerously high compartment pressures may be reduced to acceptable levels and fasciotomy avoided . we present an explanation of the clinical effects of activation of the venous footpump , based on recent improved understanding of the physiology of the microcirculation . the hyperaemic response that follows the liberation of endothelial-derived relaxing factor ( edrf ) by sudden changes of pressure after weight-bearing or impulse compression is particularly important . 
the osteogenetic potential of fracture haematoma . subperiosteal and intramuscular transplantation of the haematoma . we studied the precise role of the fracture haematoma in healing by the experimental transplantation of the haematoma at two days and four days after fracture of the rat femur to subperiosteal and intramuscular sites . we used bone marrow and peripheral blood haematomas for control experiments . the transplanted two-day fracture haematoma produced new bone by endochondral ossification at the subperiosteal site , but not at the intramuscular site . four-day fracture haematoma produced new bone formation at both subperiosteal and intramuscular sites . these results suggest that fracture haematoma has an inherent osteogenetic potential . 
ultrasound-guided aspiration for transient synovitis of the hip . we reviewed 15 children with transient synovitis of the hip who had aspiration of an effusion under local anaesthesia with ultrasound guidance . there were no significant complications ; aspiration was useful for diagnosis and gave considerable symptomatic relief . we discuss the role of ultrasound in diagnosis and treatment . 
surgical treatment for severe slipping of the upper femoral epiphysis . we have used a modified technique of cervical osteotomy to treat a consecutive series of 23 patients with chronic slip of the upper femoral epiphysis . it has been successful in correcting both moderate and severe deformities with a low incidence of avascular necrosis , comparable to that seen after subtrochanteric osteotomies . we describe the operative details and discuss the features which make cervical osteotomy technically superior to intertrochanteric and subtrochanteric procedures . 
transient cyst-like cortical defects following fractures in children . medullary fat within the subperiosteal haematoma . asymptomatic cyst-like cortical defects appearing after fractures in children have been occasionally reported . typically , these defects appear during fracture consolidation , within the newly formed subperiosteal bone , proximal to the fracture line , do not enlarge , and progressively disappear . we have previously shown a fatty density on ct scan within the early cortical defect . we now present two additional cases in which early ct scans appeared to confirm that these transient cortical defects may consist of fat , and probably result from the inclusion of medullary fat within the subperiosteal haematoma . 
the modified schollner costoplasty . the modified schollner costoplasty is a cosmetic procedure for the correction of rib prominence deformity in scoliosis . we present the results of the procedure in 21 patients who had previously undergone spinal fusion for scoliosis . we found the procedure to be well tolerated without major complications . objective cosmetic improvement was achieved in all but one case . all but one patient considered the procedure to have been of cosmetic benefit . 
a surgical approach to the cervicothoracic spine . we describe a method for approaching the lower cervical and upper thoracic spine , the brachial plexus and related vessels . the method involves the elevation of the medial corner of the manubrium , the sternoclavicular joint , and the medial half of the clavicle on a pedicle of the sternomastoid muscle . we have used this exposure in 17 cases with few complications and good results . its successful performance requires high standards of anaesthesia , surgical technique and postoperative care . 
operative and conservative treatment of moderate spondylolisthesis in young patients . we made a retrospective study of 149 children and adolescents with moderate spondylolisthesis ( slip less than or equal to 30 % ) , 77 treated by fusion and 72 conservatively at an average follow-up of 13.3 years . both groups were fully comparable with regard to age at diagnosis , sex distribution ( 46 % girls ) , and mean slip . the patients who were treated operatively had more pain before treatment and showed more initial progression of the slip . they had better clinical results and less pain at latest review , but the total progression of the slip over the whole follow-up showed no statistical differences between the two groups . patients with a pseudarthrosis after attempted fusion had had a longer period of postoperative pain , but at the latest review had no more pain than those with sound fusion . none of those treated conservatively came to fusion later and the long-term results in 18 patients who had refused the advised operation were no worse than those for other conservatively treated patients . our results suggest that a moderate grade of spondylolisthesis in adolescents usually has a benign course . it seems that spontaneous segmental stabilisation occurs as a result of degeneration of the disc at the level of the slip . 
lumbar intervertebral disc prolapse in teenage twins . a case report and review of the literature . we report the cases of teenage twin girls presenting within months of each other with severe symptoms from lumbosacral disc prolapses , requiring laminectomy in one and chemonucleolysis in the other . ct scans showed similarities in spinal configuration , including the presence of disc bulges at the l4-5 level . this suggests a strong hereditary factor in prolapse of intervertebral discs , but a review of the literature showed little information on that aspect . 
ligation of the superficial femoral vein in prevention of pulmonary embolism : an old fashion procedure ? from 1974 to 1988 , interruption of the superficial femoral vein ( sfv ) was performed to prevent pulmonary embolism ( pe ) in 73 patients . the mean age of the patients was 62 years . phlebography showed thrombi in the following localizations : calf veins ( 67.3 % ) , superficial femoral or popliteal veins ( 56.6 % ) , common femoral veins ( 19.5 % ) and iliac veins ( 2.7 % ) . a floating thrombus in the popliteal or femoral vein was the main indication for surgery in 97.3 % of patients . pulmonary embolism had occurred in 76.7 % and was associated with neoplasm in 13.7 % . ligation of the sfv was performed in 93 limbs and completed iliac or femoral thrombectomy in 32.3 % . the procedure was performed under locoregional anesthesia in 82.9 % of the cases . hospital mortality was 1.4 % and 3 year survival , considering only pe related deaths was 95.3 + / - 2.7 % . follow-up was complete for all patients and averaged 3.0 years , for a 3 years pe-free rate of 90.8 + / - 3.6 % . persistent symptoms included increased limb tenseness in 12.5 % and mild ankle edema in 25 % . bilateral strain-gauge plethysmography ( sgp ) was obtained in 65 limbs . the time necessary to obtain a 50 , 75 and 100 % decrease in calf volume ( respectively t1/2 , t3/4 and tt ) was calculated for the operated limb and compared with the untreated limbs used as controls . a prolongation of t1/2 from 2.5 + / - 0.3 sec in controls to 4.3 + / - 0.4 sec in the operated limb ( p less than 0.01 ) was found . thus , our experience with ligation of the superficial femoral vein is favourable since long-term ill effects have been minimal and strain gauge plethysmography ( sgp ) showed only mildly altered venous drainage . 
the relationship of intraluminal shunting to technical results after carotid endarterectomy . this study evaluates the incidence of defects on the intraoperative angiograms of 160 carotid endarterectomies performed in 146 patients , 81 of 160 ( 50.6 % ) with a shunt and 79 of 160 operations ( 49.4 % ) performed without a shunt . angiographic defects were identified in 34 of 160 carotid endarterectomies ( 21 % ) , of which 21 of 34 ( 65 % ) resulted in a greater than 20 % stenosis of the internal carotid artery ( ica ) . there were defects in 6 of 81 ( 7.4 % ) shunted vessels compared to 16 of 79 ( 20 % ) of those not shunted ( p less than 0.05 ) . thirty-one vessels were reexplored 11 of 81 ( 13.5 % ) of those shunted and 20 of 79 ( 20 % ) of those not shunted ( p less than 0.05 ) . there were four strokes ( 2.5 % ) ( 2 in each group ) and one death due to myocardial infarction ( 0.6 % ) in the postoperative period . duplex follow-up from 1-60 months ( median 22 months ) was available in 114 of 160 ( 71 % ) endarterectomies . a stenosis of greater than 50 % was detected in 7 of 114 ( 6 % ) carotid arteries ; 5 of the 7 ( 71 % ) were shunted and 2 ( 29 % ) were nonshunted . unrepaired defects were present in 3 of 7 ( 43 % ) and no defects in the remaining 4 of 7 ( 57 % ) arteries . we conclude that the use of a shunt significantly decreases the number of ica defects detected angiographically and that immediate revision of demonstrable defects can be undertaken with low morbidity and does not predispose the patient to recurrent stenosis . 
long term follow-up of descending thoracic aorto-iliac/femoral bypass . a prospective study of 26 patients undergoing descending thoracic aorto-iliac/femoral ( dtai/f ) bypass was conducted over a 13-year period with an average follow up of 53 months . reasons for selecting the procedure were occluded aortic bifurcation grafts ( 9 patients ) , hostile abdomen ( 6 ) , infected aortic graft ( 1 ) , microaorta ( 10 , and surgeons preference in 8 patients who had juxtarenal aortic occlusion . the operative mortality was 3.8 % ( 1 patient ) . a late mortality of 36 % was due to myocardial infarction ( 1 ) , lung carcinoma ( 2 ) , renal failure ( 4 ) , stroke ( 1 ) and pulmonary insufficiency ( 1 ) . graft failure occurred in 4 patients at 23 , 26 , 54 and 109 months respectively . primary cumulative patency was 86 % statistically valid at 42 months . dtai/f bypass is recommended in selected patients when conventional approaches to the aorta are considered unduly hazardous . 
combined epidural and general anesthesia in aortic surgery . the perioperative course of 144 consecutive patients undergoing aortic reconstructive surgery was studied to assess the potential benefit of employing a combined epidural and light general anesthesia technique . a group of 67 patients had general anesthesia alone ( ga ) , while in the group of 77 remaining patients , a combined epidural and general anesthesia ( epi-ga ) was employed . the two groups were similar in regards to age , medical risk factors , preoperative assessment of cardiac and pulmonary function , and type of surgical reconstruction . there was no significant difference in the anesthetic , operative time , or operative fluid requirements between the two groups . there was a lower rate pressure product in the epi-ga group during aortic cross clamping ( p less than 0.05 ) . more patients in the ga group required a prolonged ventilatory support ( p less than 0.05 ) and a high parenteral narcotic administration ( p less than 0.025 ) during the first 48 hours . while the mortality rate was similar for the two groups ( 3.0 % for ga group vs 5.2 % for epi-ga group ) , there was a higher percent of postoperative pulmonary complications observed in the ga group ( 7.6 % ) compared to the epi-ga group ( 2.6 % ) . by facilitating early extubation and a decreased need for systemic narcotics in the early postoperative period , epi-ga may be beneficial in the high risk pulmonary patient undergoing aortic reconstruction . 
femoral noninfected anastomotic aneurysms . a report of 56 cases . fifty-six femoral non infected anastomotic false aneurysms ( faas ) were observed in 49 patients admitted to the institute of vascular surgery , university of milan , from 1975 to 1988 ; in 6 patients they were bilateral . these aneurysms developed after primary revascularization procedures at a mean interval of 66 months ( range 12 to 156 months ) ; one recurred after reparative surgery . forty-four faas ( 78.6 % ) were asymptomatic , whereas 3 ( 5.3 % ) were complicated by acute expansion and 9 ( 16.1 % ) by thrombosis . host vessel degeneration was the cause of aneurysm formation in most cases . a history of hypertension was present in 30 % of the patients . all anastomotic aneurysms were operated upon except for one small aneurysm that was asymptomatic . in 5 patients aneurysm resection was carried out on both sides . the surgical technique was endoaneurysmectomy in all the cases with insertion of an interposition graft in 48 cases , a fabric patch in 2 cases and prosthesis re-anastomosis in 5 cases . one case of peripheral embolization occurring in the early postoperative period was successfully treated and there was no operative mortality . in our opinion elective repair of these aneurysms should be recommended whenever possible because of their propensity to develop serious complications and the operative morbidity is low . 
the management of aneurysms and arterio-venous fistulae of the popliteal artery arising from war trauma . emphasis on sigmoid operative approach . between 1986-1988 , 600 vascular cases arising from the iran-iraq conflict were dealt with within an 18 month period and 60 cases of popliteal artery and/or venous disruption were encountered presenting at variable times after injury . a policy of management between the forward and base hospital surgical teams was introduced , observing the following broad categorizations : ( a ) assessment/referral , ( b ) assessment/fasciotomy/referral , ( c ) immediate operation/referral for further operation/review/management . two types of incision were used to enter the popliteal fossa : ( a ) a medial incision and ( b ) a sigmoid posterior incision ( which we now favor ) . the results of this strategy of management and operative technique ( when compared with our previous experience within the same time frame ) suggested an improved outcome . fifty-four out of 60 cases had a satisfactory operative result with below-knee amputation being required in only four cases and higher amputations in two others . no operative or postoperative deaths occurred . the implementation of this " vetting policy " at the front line appeared to reduce the number of amputations and assisted the clarification of management criteria in assessing limb viability at the forward hospital when a large number of casualties were being received . operative access using the sigmoid posterior incision was not associated with any complications , offered better exposure than the medial incision and was technically easier for the surgeon to perform . 
prosthetic above-knee femoropopliteal bypass for intermittent claudication . there is no consensus about the most appropriate management of the patient with intermittent claudication due to a superficial femoral artery occlusion . to evaluate the natural history of prosthetic above-knee femoropopliteal ( akfp ) bypass , 200 operations for intermittent claudication were reviewed . one hundred akfp bypasses were done with ptfe and 100 with dacron . in the 30 day postoperative period , four ptfe and three dacron grafts occluded without consequence and only one patient died . analysis of results by the life-table method demonstrated statistically similar primary graft patency rates at five years ( ptfe 65 % se + / - 6.5 , dacron 57 % + / - 6.2 ) and ten years ( ptfe 31 % + / - 18/9 , dacron 32 % + / - 13.2 ) ( p greater than 0.10 ) . redo procedures ( e.g. , thrombectomy , angioplasty ) were necessary on 21 grafts ( 12 ptfe , 9 dacron ) and " secondary " patency rates at five years were 76 % ptfe and 62 % dacron ; no grafts which required a redo procedure were patent at ten year follow-up . major amputations during ten year follow-up were necessary in 16 ( 8 % ) patients ; all amputations were in diabetic patients . survival rates were 79 % at five and 42 % at ten years . an anticipated , the leading cause of death was cardiac related ( 25 patients ) ; 28 ( 14 % ) patients underwent aortocoronary bypass during follow-up . a prosthetic akfp bypass graft is a safe and durable operation which provides relief from the symptoms of intermittent claudication while allowing for the preservation of the saphenous vein for use later in the coronary or infrapopliteal circulations , should the need arise . these results indicate that the risk of amputation after akfp is no greater than the natural history of untreated claudication ; however , akfp offers a significant improvement in life-style . 
unusual haemostasis for an unusual tumour . catastrophic bleeding from a tactile neurofibroma affecting the thoracic vertebrae . case report . the symptomatology of a typical acute descending thoracic aorta dissection was imitated by profuse haemorrhage caused by a benign tumour composed almost exclusively of wagner-meissner like tactile corpuscles and fatty tissue . the tumour caused extensive destruction of the bodies of the fifth and sixth thoracic vertebrae at the level of the vertebro-costal articulation . emergency cross clamping of the descending aorta and haemostasis of the bleeding from osteal defects by tamponade with bone polymethyl methacrylate appeared the only way to control the life threatening haemorrhage . it seems that an intrathoracic tactile neurofibroma with a similar case history has not been reported till now . 
spontaneous rupture of an aortic aneurysm into the left renal vein . a diagnostic challenge . rupture of an aortic aneurysm into a renal vein presents a rare and difficult diagnostic problem . often , therapy is delayed because the patient is thought to have a urologic problem . in this instance , ct scan provided useful clues leading to the diagnosis of this entity , and its rapid treatment . to our knowledge , this is the first ct scan done in a patient with aorto-renal vein fistula . 
mechanical circulatory support as a bridge to transplantation : current status of total artificial heart in 1989 and determinants of survival . since april 1986 , 40 total artificial hearts ( tah ) were implanted as a bridge to transplantation in our institution . in an attempt to identify factors affecting survival of tah recipients we reviewed our experience over 1000 days of mechanical support . there was no postoperative bleeding requiring surgery nor were there any clinical episodes of thromboembolic complications . over a total functioning period greater than 3 years there were no mechanical failures in the driving system but one artificial ventricle had to be replaced because of mechanical dysfunction . infections and multiple organ failure were the primary causes of morbidity and mortality during mechanical support . when the patients who underwent staged transplantation ( no . 17 ) were compared with those who died during mechanical support ( no . 23 ) there were no differences in tah driving mode or hemodynamic variables between the groups . although preoperative pulmonary , hepatic and renal functions were found to be similar between the groups , there were significant differences in the early evolution ( 3 days ) of hepatic and renal functions following tah implant ( p less than 0.01 ) . urinary output was found to be the earliest variable discriminating recovery and survival ( p less than 0.01 ) . finally , univariate analysis indicated age ( less than 40 vs greater than 40 years ) and modality of cardiac decompensation ( acute vs chronic ) as the most important factors affecting survival after tah implantation . since young patients ( less than 40 years of age ) with acute decompensation were successfully transplanted in 82 % of cases while 100 % of older patients with chronic decompensation died before or after transplantation , tah should be advised in young patients with acute or chronic heart failure and in selected older candidates with recent , acute cardiac failure . 
clinical outcome of emergency repeat coronary artery bypass surgery . to determine the clinical outcome of patients requiring emergency repeat coronary artery bypass graft ( cabg ) procedures , we reviewed 23 such procedures performed for ongoing myocardial ischemia refractory to medical management . the operative mortality was 17 % . on follow-up , an average of 24.9 months after emergency reoperation , 14 of the 19 survivors ( 74 % ) had recurrent angina . as compared to a randomly selected group of 25 patients who underwent elective repeat cabg procedures during the same time period , the incidence of late cardiac events was significantly higher ( 79 % in the emergency group , 30 % in the elective surgery group ) and fewer patients had received internal mammary artery ( ima ) grafts ( 9 % vs 52 % ) . emergency repeat cabg operations have considerable operative mortality and poor postoperative functional results with the majority of survivors developing recurrent ischemic syndromes within a short period of time . 
the de vega tricuspid annuloplasty . perioperative mortality and long term follow-up . one hundred and fifty-three patients undergoing de vega tricuspid annuloplasty , with or without other associated cardiac procedures between january , 1979 , and june , 1987 , were evaluated . there were 136 hospital survivors . the follow-up was 98.1 % complete for a mean of 3.7 years/patient . operative mortality was 11.1 % ; preoperative nyha class and length of cpb were significant risk factors of perioperative mortality . the actuarial survival of operative survivors at 9 years was 73.5 + / - 11.8 % . there were 7 late cardiac deaths among a total of 12 late deaths . eleven patients required reoperation ( 2.1 + / - 0.6 % patient-year ) . in seven patients it was necessary for recurrence of tricuspid regurgitation ; six of these had also a mitral prosthesis malfunction or a periprosthetic leak . residual tricuspid regurgitation was judged as mild , moderate or severe in 29.9 % , 11.9 % and 4.3 % of the patients respectively . de vega tricuspid annuloplasty is the method of choice for mild and moderate tricuspid insufficiency ; in selected cases , with a more severe degree of regurgitation , better results could be achieved with a different surgical approach . 
essential fatty acid deficiency ameliorates acute renal dysfunction in the rat after the administration of the aminonucleoside of puromycin . the administration of the aminonucleoside of puromycin ( pan ) to rats causes the nephrotic syndrome that is associated with an acute decline in renal function , and an interstitial infiltrate . we examined whether essential fatty acid deficiency ( efad ) , which inhibits macrophage infiltration in glomerulonephritis , affects pan-induced renal dysfunction . both control and efad rats developed proteinuria that resolved over 28 d. after pan administration , there was a prominent infiltration of macrophages in rats fed a normal diet . the infiltrate was prevented by the efad diet . the absence of a macrophage interstitial infiltrate was associated with a significantly higher cin in the efad rats than in controls at 7 d ( 5.21 + / - 1.19 versus 0.39 + / - 0.08 , p less than 0.002 ml/min/kg bw ) . in addition , cpah fell to less than 10 ml/min/kg bw by day 7 in controls , but remained the same as normal in the efad . after administration of pan to control rats , there was no increase in urinary thromboxane excretion or an increase in glomerular thromboxane production . furthermore , the effect of efad could not be mimicked by the administration of a thromboxane synthase inhibitor . irradiation-induced leukopenia in rats on a normal diet markedly improved glomerular filtration and renal blood flow in acutely nephrotic rats . efad prevents the interstitial cellular infiltrate and the renal ischemia associated with experimental nephrosis . the recruitment of mononuclear cells into the kidney following pan directly contributes to the decline in renal function . 
deletion of alu sequences in the fifth c-sis intron in individuals with meningiomas . an abnormality in the c-sis protooncogene was identified in leukocyte dna from members of a family predisposed to the development of meningioma , and was found to be associated with the development of the tumor in those individuals . molecular analysis of this abnormality demonstrated a deletion within the fifth intron of the c-sis gene . the normal c-sis gene has an alu sequence in this region which includes two perfect 130 nucleotide repeated sequences separated by 5 bp . the deleted c-sis allele is missing precisely one copy of the 130 bp repeat and the intervening 5 bp . an identical deletion was also found in dna from 1 of 13 sporadic meningiomas . 
enhanced utilization of exogenous glucose improves cardiac function in hypoxic rabbit ventricle without increasing total glycolytic flux . the effects of elevated glucose on cardiac function during hypoxia were investigated in isolated arterially perfused rabbit interventricular septa . rest tension , developed tension , intracellular potential , 42k + efflux , lactate production , exogenous glucose utilization , and tissue high-energy phosphate levels were measured during a 50-min period of hypoxia with 4 , 5 , or 50 mm glucose present ( isosmotically balanced with sucrose ) and during reoxygenation for 60 min with perfusate containing 5 mm glucose/45 mm sucrose . at physiologic ( 4 or 5 mm ) and supraphysiologic glucose ( 50 mm ) , lactate production and high-energy phosphate levels during hypoxia were equally well maintained , yet cardiac dysfunction was markedly attenuated by 50 mm glucose . despite identical rates of total glycolytic flux , exogenous glucose utilization was enhanced by 50 mm glucose so that tissue glycogen levels remained normal during hypoxia , whereas glycogen became depleted with 4 or 5 mm glucose present during hypoxia . most of the beneficial effects of 50 mm glucose occurred during the first 25 min of hypoxia . prior glycogen depletion had no deleterious effects during hypoxia with 50 mm glucose present , but exacerbated cardiac dysfunction during hypoxia with 5 mm glucose present . these findings indicate that enhanced utilization of exogenous glucose improved cardiac function during hypoxia without increasing total glycolytic flux or tissue high-energy phosphate levels , suggesting a novel cardioprotective mechanism . 
an insertion/deletion polymorphism in the angiotensin i-converting enzyme gene accounting for half the variance of serum enzyme levels . a polymorphism consisting of the presence or absence of a 250-bp dna fragment was detected within the angiotensin i-converting enzyme gene ( ace ) using the endothelial ace cdna probe . this polymorphism was used as a marker genotype in a study involving 80 healthy subjects , whose serum ace levels were concomitantly measured . allele frequencies were 0.6 for the shorter allele and 0.4 for the longer allele . a marked difference in serum ace levels was observed between subjects in each of the three ace genotype classes . serum immunoreactive ace concentrations were , respectively , 299.3 + / - 49 , 392.6 + / - 66.8 , and 494.1 + / - 88.3 micrograms/liter , for homozygotes with the longer allele ( n = 14 ) , and heterozygotes ( n = 37 ) and homozygotes ( n = 29 ) with the shorter allele . the insertion/deletion polymorphism accounted for 47 % of the total phenotypic variance of serum ace , showing that the ace gene locus is the major locus that determines serum ace concentration . concomitant determination of the ace genotype will improve discrimination between normal and abnormal serum ace values by allowing comparison with a more appropriate reference interval . 
oligoclonal t cell receptor gene rearrangements in blood lymphocytes of patients with acute epstein-barr virus-induced infectious mononucleosis . gene rearrangement studies were performed on blood lymphocytes from eight patients with acute epstein-barr virus-induced infectious mononucleosis . the diagnosis in each case was based on characteristic clinical , hematologic , and serologic findings . the blood lymphocytes in each patient consisted predominantly of cd8 + t cells . ebv dna was detected in seven patients by southern blot analysis ( ebv bam hi w probe , bam hi ) . a germline configuration was found for the immunoglobulin heavy and light chain genes ( jh probe , bam hi and eco ri ; c kappa probe , bam hi ; and c lambda probe , eco ri ) . t cell receptor gene rearrangements were detected with j gamma and j beta 1 + 2 probes . using a j gamma probe with two different restriction enzymes ( bgl ii and eco ri ) , the blood from each patient showed several bands corresponding to the polyclonal pattern previously described in the blood of normal individuals . using j beta 1 + 2 probes with two different restriction enzymes ( bgl ii and bam hi ) , each case showed from 3 to about 12 extragermline bands of varying intensity and in different locations from case to case . in addition , each case showed relative deletion of the j beta 1 germline band . this oligoclonal pattern of t cell receptor gene rearrangements has not been previously reported in benign or malignant t cell populations . 
antigen specific serum antibody response to chlamydia trachomatis in patients with acute pelvic inflammatory disease . sera from 35 patients with acute pelvic inflammatory disease ( pid ) with and without chlamydia trachomatis confirmed by culture and sera from 19 control patients with neither evidence of pelvic infection nor c trachomatis infection were studied for the presence of serum igg , iga , and igm antibodies to c trachomatis using enzyme immunoassay ( eia ) and immunoblotting techniques . there was no correlation between the antibody concentrations in the eia and the spread of chlamydial infection , as determined by cervical , endometrial , and laparoscopic sampling for chlamydia . the immunoblot analysis showed antibodies to the major outer membrane protein ( momp ) of c trachomatis elementary bodies in all patients who had had c trachomatis isolated . reactivity was also frequently observed against the 68 , 62 , 60 , 45 , and 31 kilodalton antigens . about 20 antigenic polypeptides were identified . differences in antibody prevalence to specific chlamydial antigens , however , were not related to the site of chlamydial isolation or serum antibody concentrations observed with the eia . the results indicate that patients with pid with and without upper genital tract infection with c trachomatis can not be differentiated by reactivity of sera to specific chlamydial polypeptide antigens . the determination of a specific serum iga antibody response by eia was the most effective single test to discriminate between patients with and without acute chlamydial infection . 
hypereosinophilic syndrome with unusual cutaneous manifestations in two men with hiv infection . we report two men with human immunodeficiency virus infection who had unusual cutaneous manifestations of hypereosinophilic syndrome , exfoliative erythroderma , and linear flagellate plaques . in the first patient the cutaneous disease was the initial manifestation , and in the second the skin was the only organ affected . we also describe a favorable response to systemic corticosteroids and to psoralen with uva phototherapy in one patient . 
photochemotherapy improves chronic cutaneous graft-versus-host disease . we have used oral psoralen photochemotherapy ( puva ) to treat four patients with chronic graft-versus-host disease of the skin , oral mucosa , and liver , who had responded only partially to long-term immunosuppressive therapy ( prednisolone , cyclosporine , azathioprine ) . puva therapy was delivered to the entire skin but not to the oral mucosa , and immunosuppressive therapy was continued in all patients . two patients ' skin lesions improved considerably ; the oral lesions healed and did not recur in one . immunosuppressive therapy could be reduced in these two patients . one patient with sicca signs did not improve . one patient had to interrupt puva therapy because of side effects attributed to 8-methoxypsoralen ( nausea and vomiting ) . no flare of acute cutaneous graft-versus-host disease was noted during puva therapy . chronic graft-versus-host disease of the liver did not improve in any patient . 
the prognosis of contact dermatitis . this article reviews the prognosis of contact dermatitis , particularly of occupational contact dermatitis . most studies document a poor prognosis for occupational and nonoccupational contact dermatitis . the prognoses of occupational and nonoccupational contact dermatitis , irritant contact dermatitis , and allergic contact dermatitis are similar . only a minority of studies on the prognosis of occupational contact dermatitis have found that a job change by the affected worker leads to clearing of the dermatitis . dermatologic and nondermatologic factors associated with a poor prognosis are discussed . 
the many faces and phases of borreliosis ii . borrelia burgdorferi , the etiologic agent of lyme disease , has also been associated with other cutaneous conditions . acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans and lymphadenosis benigna cutis are also caused by b. burgdorferi . recent evidence links some cases of progressive facial hemiatrophy of parry-romberg , benign lymphocytic infiltrate of the skin ( jessner-kanof ) , lichen sclerosus et atrophicus , morphea , and shulman syndrome with borreliae . this article reviews the manifestations of the diseases definitely linked to borreliosis and the evidence linking borreliae to progressive facial hemiatrophy , benign lymphocytic infiltrate , lichen sclerosus et atrophicus , morphea , and shulman syndrome . 
cheilitis granulomatosa : report of six cases and review of the literature . six cases of cheilitis granulomatosa , a rare inflammatory disorder of unknown origin , are reported . the condition produces nontender , persistent swelling of one or both lips and affects primarily young adults . histologically , nonnecrotizing granulomatous inflammation is seen . the clinical findings and results of therapy in these six cases are presented . one patient was treated with hydroxychloroquine sulfate ( plaquenil ) that stabilized the process . one of our patients had vesicular-appearing lesions . microscopic examination showed the lesions to be dilated superficial lymphatic channels , a finding that to our knowledge has not been previously described . 
scleroderma and l-tryptophan : a possible explanation of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . scleroderma developed in six women who were taking l-tryptophan . fasciitis and morphea were most common , but one patient had pleural effusion , hypertension , and signs of cardiac and kidney failure . in five patients the biopsy findings were characteristic of scleroderma ; the sixth patient had crohn 's disease and developed fasciitis ; her biopsy specimen showed inflammatory arteritis . all patients ' conditions improved after cessation of their l-tryptophan intake , initiation of corticosteroid therapy , or both . these findings confirm previous data that show altered tryptophan-kynurenine metabolism in some patients with scleroderma and fasciitis , particularly with tryptophan loading . 
pityriasis lichenoides in children : a long-term follow-up of eighty-nine cases . pityriasis lichenoides is usually classified into an acute and a chronic form . from a review of 89 cases of the disease seen since 1974 it seems that a more realistic classification into three main groups , according to the distribution of pityriasis lichenoides lesions , could be made , namely , a diffuse , a central , and a peripheral form , each characterized by a different clinical course . conversely , no correlations were detected in our series between the severity of skin lesions and their distribution or the overall course of the disease . none of our cases suggests the possible evolution of pityriasis lichenoides into lymphomatoid papulosis . although no infectious causative agent has been identified , a viral origin seems likely in some cases . most patients responded favorably to uvb irradiation . our conclusions are ( 1 ) that pityriasis lichenoides is probably a clinical disorder with a diverse etiology and ( 2 ) that its classification by distribution seems more useful than its subdivision into an acute and a chronic form . 
hydroxychloroquine is effective therapy for control of cutaneous sarcoidal granulomas . cutaneous sarcoidosis often responds poorly to topical and intralesional corticosteroids but may respond to moderate to high doses of oral corticosteroids . to avoid the use of systemic corticosteroids , we treated 17 patients with cutaneous sarcoidal granulomas with hydroxychloroquine ( 2 to 3 mg/kg/day ) in an open clinical trial . if response occurred , other medications were first tapered and then the hydroxychloroquine dosage was reduced or stopped . the cutaneous lesions of 12 patients regressed within 4 to 12 weeks , and they were able to stop other therapies ; three patients had a partial response , and two patients had no regression . two of eight patients with pulmonary sarcoidosis improved . no ocular toxicity was noted . 
treatment of aggressive keratoacanthomas by radiotherapy . keratoacanthomas infrequently are treated by radiotherapy . however , keratoacanthomas that are recurrent after surgical excision or whose resection would result in cosmetic deformity may benefit from radiotherapy . between january 1970 and june 1988 , 29 such keratoacanthomas in 18 patients were irradiated . doses ranged from 3500 cgy in 15 fractions to 5600 cgy in 28 fractions . measured end points of therapy were ( 1 ) initial response , ( 2 ) freedom from recurrence , and ( 3 ) quality of the subsequent cosmetic appearance ( scored as good , fair , or poor ) . no lesion progressed and all eventually regressed completely . cosmetic results generally were considered good by both the patient and the referring dermatologist ; none of the results was considered poor . our results demonstrate that radiation is an effective means of treating keratoacanthomas . 
sweet 's syndrome : a clinicopathologic review of twenty-nine cases . twenty-nine patients with sweet 's syndrome were studied . not all of sweet 's original criteria were necessarily present and diagnosis was dependent on the recognition of the typical , acute , tender , erythematous plaques and the characteristic histologic features of a neutrophilic infiltrate with leukocytoclasis . women are affected much more frequently than men . the origin of sweet 's syndrome is still unclear , but an underlying disease was found in more than 50 % of our cases . a streptococcal infection was evident in six cases , inflammatory bowel disease in three cases , malignancy in four cases , and pregnancy in two others . treatment with oral prednisolone for an average of 6 weeks was the usual treatment , although in four patients the disease cleared spontaneously . resolution of the eruption is occasionally followed by milia and scarring . recurrences are common and affect up to one third of patients . 
itraconazole in the management of chronic dermatophytosis . fifty-five patients with griseofulvin-unresponsive dermatophytosis caused by trichophyton rubrum were treated with itraconazole . they had either tinea corporis or " dry type " infections of the palms , soles , or nails . the following sites were affected : trunk ( 12 infections ) , soles ( 47 ) , toe webs ( 52 ) , palms ( 26 ) , fingernails ( 29 ) , and toenails ( 42 ) . patients were treated with oral itraconazole until clinical and mycologic remission were achieved . response rates and mean times to recovery were as follows : trunk , 100 % , 1.5 months ; soles , 83 % , 6.7 months ; toe webs , 90 % , 7.2 months ; palms , 96 % , 4.6 months ; fingernails , 90 % , 5.4 months ; and toenails , 76 % , 10.3 months ) . in a 6-month follow-up period 7 of 30 patients with toenail infections who had responded to treatment had a clinical and mycologic relapse , usually of one nail . side effects were minimal but included abdominal discomfort ( three patients ) , headache ( one ) , and weight gain ( two ) . no persistent abnormalities in blood biochemistry were seen , even in patients who received itraconazole for more than 9 months . 
treatment of vaginal candidiasis : orally or vaginally ? vaginal candidiasis continues to be the most common cause of vaginal discharge . a large variety of topical drugs and a selection of orally active antifungals are currently available . the choice between the use of oral drugs or intravaginal agents will depend on the therapeutic results obtained with the different agents , side effects , pregnancy status , and patient preference . the results obtained in the maria hospital , tilburg , the netherlands , and a review of foreign data suggest the following : ( 1 ) for acute infection oral and topical agents produce equivalent results . ( 2 ) for chronic infections oral medication is preferred . ( 3 ) oral therapy should not be given to pregnant patients or to patients not using reliable contraceptive measures . ( 4 ) half the patients prefer oral medication ; only 5 % prefer intravaginal therapy , and the others had no clear preference . 
european experience with itraconazole in systemic mycoses . since january 1985 more than 100 patients with deep fungal infections have been treated with itraconazole ( 200 to 400 mg/day ) in northern italy . evaluation of the drug efficacy and tolerance was possible in one patient with sporotrichosis , in 34 with aspergillosis , and in 36 with cryptococcosis ( mainly patients positive for human immunodeficiency virus ) . response to itraconazole alone was obtained in the case of sporotrichosis and in 24 of 34 patients with different forms of aspergillosis ( of the 18 patients with invasive pulmonary aspergillosis , 15 were cured ) . patients with cryptococcosis received itraconazole for active infection and/or for prevention of relapse . active infection was treated successfully with itraconazole alone in 9 of 12 patients and with itraconazole plus flucytosine in 8 of 10 patients . of the 31 patients who received itraconazole maintenance therapy for up to 27 months , 4 ( 13 % ) had relapses ; 14 ( 45 % ) did not have relapses , and decline of serum antigen was detected in 12 of them ; and 13 ( 42 % ) were completely cured ( serum antigen titer dropped to zero ) . with the exception of hypokalemia in one patient , itraconazole was well tolerated even in patients who received the drug for several months or years . 
itraconazole therapy for nonmeningeal coccidioidomycosis : clinical and laboratory observations . itraconazole , a new oral triazole antifungal agent , was administered in 75 courses to patients with chronic coccidioidomycosis at dosages of 50 to 400 mg/day for a median duration of 10 months . assessment of efficacy was made with a standardized scoring system . responses were seen in 42 of 58 assessable courses ( 72 % ) . nonresponse occurred exclusively in patients who had failed previous therapy and was most common in pulmonary disease . toxicity was minimal at the doses studied . pharmacokinetic analysis of itraconazole in serum at steady state showed negligible circadian variation ; differences in serum concentrations among patients were large . clinical isolates of coccidioides immitis showed uniform in vitro susceptibility to itraconazole . itraconazole shows impressive activity in this series of patients with refractory coccidioidomycosis . further evaluation of itraconazole in this and in other systemic mycoses is in order . 
itraconazole in opportunistic mycoses : cryptococcosis and aspergillosis . striking results were obtained with oral itraconazole therapy in two opportunistic mycoses . of 28 patients with cryptococcal meningitis , 18 achieved complete responses , including 16 of 24 patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . other manifestations of cryptococcosis were similarly responsive . in aspergillosis 12 of 15 patients responded , including 8 of 10 immunocompromised hosts . these patients included those with invasive pulmonary disease ( 4/5 ) , skeletal disease ( 2/2 ) , pleural disease ( 1/2 ) , and pericardial , sinus , mastoid , hepatosplenic , or nail disease ( 1/1 ) . these results with itraconazole compare favorably to conventional ( parenteral ) therapy , and toxicity was minimal . this suggests that comparative trials are now in order . 
itraconazole therapy in aspergillosis : study in 49 patients . itraconazole , 200 to 400 mg once daily , was administered to 49 patients with different types of aspergillosis : pulmonary aspergilloma ( 14 patients ) , chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis ( 14 ) , and invasive aspergillosis ( 21 ) . itraconazole was prescribed alone or in combination or after treatment with amphotericin b and flucytosine . of 14 aspergilloma patients , 2 were cured and 8 had symptomatic improvement . in chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis , 7 of 14 patients were cured and 6 improved significantly . in invasive aspergillosis treatment failed in 6 patients and 15 were cured . itraconazole can be an alternative to amphotericin b in the treatment of invasive aspergillosis and chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis . in aspergilloma itraconazole may be useful in inoperable cases . 
problem solving in implant dentistry . dental implants have become an accepted form of dental care , with reported functional 5-year success rates of 90 % and higher . these impressive statistics include , but do not identify , the problems that may have been created by clinical ineptitude . diagnostic acumen and preventive measures at each stage of the implant treatment can avoid many problems . also , appropriate measures of timely recognition , rescue , and repair can often restore ailing implants and their prosthetic appliances to full function . 
coronary angioplasty after coronary bypass surgery : initial results and late outcome in 422 patients . from 1978 to 1988 , coronary angioplasty was performed in 422 patients with prior coronary artery bypass surgery ( 264 patients with native coronary artery angioplasty and 158 patients with graft angioplasty ) . angioplasty was successful in 84 % , unsuccessful but uncomplicated in 11 % and complicated by one or more major cardiac events in 5 % ( myocardial infarction 5 % , emergency bypass surgery 2 % and death 0.2 % ) . follow-up data were obtained in 99 % of 356 patients with successful angioplasty . at a mean of 33 + / - 26 months , 92 % were alive , 73 % had improvement in angina and 61 % were free of angina . one or more of the following late events occurred in 67 patients ( 19 % ) : myocardial infarction ( 6 % ) , elective reoperation ( 13 % ) and cardiac death ( 6 % ) . repeat angioplasty was performed in 27 % , with a success rate of 89 % and no deaths . initial success rates were equal in native vessel versus graft angioplasty , but late outcome was less favorable with the latter because of a higher rate of infarction ( 11 % versus 4 % , p less than 0.05 ) and need for reoperation ( 19 % versus 10 % , p less than 0.05 ) . the initial success rate was higher in vein grafts less than 1 year old compared with grafts 1 to 4 years or greater than 4 years after operation ( 92 % versus 85 % versus 83 % , respectively ) and adverse late events were less frequent after angioplasty in recent vein grafts ( less than 1 year 13 % , 1 to 4 years 35 % , greater than 4 years 29 % ; less than 1 versus greater than 1 year , p less than 0.05 ) . 
an effective and adaptable transvenous defibrillation system using the coronary sinus in humans . with use of a coronary sinus catheter electrode , a right ventricular catheter electrode and a chest wall patch electrode system , defibrillation threshold voltage , current and energy were measured with four distinct transvenous defibrillation techniques delivered in random sequence in each of 12 survivors of cardiac arrest immediately before implantation of a standard epicardial patch defibrillation system . the four transvenous defibrillation techniques were 1 ) single pathway monophasic pulsing , 2 ) single pathway biphasic pulsing , 3 ) dual pathway sequential pulsing , and 4 ) dual pathway simultaneous pulsing . a transvenous defibrillation method was considered to be potentially useful only if the defibrillation threshold was less than or equal to 500 v ( less than or equal to 15 j delivered energy ) . the 500 v value would allow a 2:1 defibrillation safety margin for a device with a maximal output of 30 j. no single transvenous pulsing technique was uniformly superior in efficacy . however , by choosing the best pulsing technique for each patient , it was possible to obtain an average defibrillation threshold of 410 + / - 135 v leading edge voltage , 7.2 + / - 2.5 a leading edge current and 11.3 + / - 7.4 j delivered energy for the group of 12 patients . with the ability to vary defibrillation technique , transvenous antiarrhythmic device implantation would have been possible in 10 ( 83 % ) of the 12 patients at or below a 15 j defibrillation threshold cutoff point . in contrast , if only one transvenous defibrillation method had been used , as few as 5 and at most 8 of the 12 patients would have been candidates for a transvenous defibrillation system given a 15 j defibrillation threshold cutoff point for insertion . 
the automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator in young patients . an international survey identified 40 patients less than 20 years old who underwent surgical implantation of an automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator ( aicd ) . there was a history of aborted sudden cardiac death or sustained ventricular tachycardia in 92.5 % of these patients . twenty-two patients ( 55 % ) had structural heart disease ; dilated and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy were the most common diagnoses . eighteen patients ( 45 % ) had primary electrical abnormalities including seven with the congenital long qt syndrome . there were no perioperative deaths associated with device implantation . concomitant drug therapy was administered to 75 % of the patients . defibrillator discharge occurred in 70 % of the patients , with 17 patients ( 42.5 % ) receiving at least one appropriate shock . there were two sudden and two nonsudden deaths at 28.2 months ' median follow-up . sudden death-free survival rates by life table analysis at 12 and 33 months were 0.94 and 0.88 , respectively . total survival rates at 12 and 33 months were 0.94 and 0.82 , respectively . the aicd represents an effective treatment approach for young patients with life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias . 
heart rate variability before and after myocardial infarction in conscious dogs at high and low risk of sudden death . heart rate variability has been demonstrated both experimentally and clinically to be of prognostic importance in determining mortality after myocardial infarction . however , no paired studies have been reported to examine heart rate variability before and after myocardial infarction . the hypothesis was tested that low values of heart rate variability provided risk assessment both before and after myocardial infarction with use of an established canine model of sudden cardiac death . risk for sudden death was assessed 1 month after myocardial infarction by a protocol in which exercise and myocardial ischemia were combined ; dogs that developed ventricular fibrillation were classified at high risk for sudden death ( susceptible ) and the survivors were considered low risk ( resistant ) . in resistant dogs , myocardial infarction did not affect any measure of heart rate variability : 1 ) mean rr interval , 2 ) standard deviation of the mean rr interval , and 3 ) the coefficient of variance ( standard deviation/rr interval ) . by contrast , after myocardial infarction , susceptible dogs showed significant decrease in all measures of heart rate variability . before myocardial infarction , no differences were seen between susceptible and resistant dogs . however , 30 days after infarction , epidemiologic analysis of the coefficient of variance showed high sensitivity and specificity ( 88 % and 80 % , respectively ) , predicting susceptibility . therefore , results of analysis of 30 min of beat to beat heart period at rest 30 days after myocardial infarction are highly predictive for increased risk of sudden death . 
enhanced reactive oxygen species metabolism of airspace cells and airway inflammation follow antigen challenge in human asthma . airflow limitation and airway inflammation follow antigen bronchoprovocation in sensitized individuals . inflammation likely results from the interplay of several previously demonstrated factors , but the participation and persistence of enhanced reactive oxygen species ( ros ) metabolism of airspace cells after antigen challenge have received more limited attention . we studied nine subjects with mild asthma by bronchoalveolar lavage before and 48 ( one subject ) to 72 ( eight subjects ) hours after antigen bronchoprovocation and compared airspace cell numbers and types , cell function , and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid protein , albumin , and immunoglobulins . mild , but significant , airflow limitation persisted at the time of the second lavage . eosinophil influx was a notable component of the increased airspace cells in postchallenge lavages . airspace cells demonstrated significantly enhanced ros metabolism , and total protein , albumin , and igm levels were higher in postchallenge lavage specimens . antigen bronchial challenge produces airspace inflammation , which may develop , in part , as a consequence of enhanced ros metabolism of airspace cells . 
alternation of gastric mucosal glycoprotein ( lectin-binding pattern ) in gastric mucosa in stress . a light and electron microscopic study . gastric mucosal cells of the rat glandular stomach were studied by light and electron microscopic procedures by use of lectins in the development of acute gastric mucosal lesions . effects of the h2-receptor antagonist sofalcone ( 2 ' carboxymethoxy-4 ,4 ' - bis 3-methyl-2 ) and truncal vagotomy with pyloroplasty on lectin binding sites and distribution were also investigated . biotinylated lectins in combination with abc ( avidin-biotinyl peroxidase complex ) method were used for light and horseradish peroxidase ( hrp ) - labeled lectins for electron microscopic studies . gastric mucosal cells showed the specific binding pattern for each lectin by light microscopy . especially , binding sites and distribution of peanut agglutinin ( pna ) were characteristic after induction of stress , truncal vagotomy , and administration of each drug . staining and distribution increased in the gastric mucosa upward and downward after that . in electron microscopic studies , pna strongly stained the membranes of the intracellular secretory canaliculi of a parietal cell . these results suggested that alternation of binding sites and distribution was regulated by change of gastric mucosal blood flow and of acidity in the parietal cells . therefore , increase of glycoconjugate distribution is supposed to be a possibility of cytoprotective effect for a change of environment in the parietal cells . 
possible role of leukotrienes in gastritis associated with campylobacter pylori . this study was done to evaluate the role of leukotrienes ( lts ) in gastritis associated with campylobacter pylori . biopsy specimens of gastric mucosa were obtained endoscopically from 18 patients with nonulcer dyspepsia for bacteriological and histological examination and extraction of lts . there was correlation between the ltb4 level in the mucosa and the degree of gastritis evaluated histologically . the level was higher when infiltration of neutrophils in the gastric mucosa was more extensive . the ltb4 level in mucosa infected with c. pylori was higher than that in noninfected mucosa . these findings suggest that endogenous lts may be related to the pathogenesis of gastritis associated with c. pylori . 
effects of stress on gastric mucosal prostaglandin generation in intact , adrenalectomized , and sham-operated rats . to study the effects of ( a ) cold restraint stress and ( b ) adrenalectomy in association with cold restraint stress on gastric mucosal ulceration and prostaglandin generation , we performed two experiments . in the first , 40 rats were divided into four groups of 10 rats each : ( a ) unstressed and ( b ) stressed for 0.5 h , ( c ) stressed for 2 h , and ( d ) stressed for 4 h. in the second experiment , another 80 rats were divided into four groups of 20 rats each : ( a ) adrenalectomy plus cold restraint stress for 2 h , ( b ) adrenalectomy plus no stress , ( c ) sham operated plus 2 h of stress , and ( d ) sham operated plus no stress . in both experiments we recorded an ulcer index and measured mucosal generation of prostaglandin e2 ( pge2 ) and prostaglandin i2 ( 6-keto-pgf1a ) . in conclusion : ( a ) cold restraint stress is associated with a time-dependent decrease in gastric mucosal pge2 generation , but no change in 6-keto-pgf1a generation , and an increase in mucosal injury that is maximal by 2 h. ( b ) adrenalectomy augments the effects of stress on mucosal injury but has no effect on prostaglandin generation ; thus , the ulcerogenic effect of adrenalectomy appears to be independent of an effect on prostaglandin generation . 
role of oxygen-derived free radicals in the pathogenesis of gastric mucosal lesions in rats . the role of oxygen-derived free radicals and lipid peroxidation in the pathogenesis of acute gastric mucosal erosion was investigated in rat models produced by burn shock stress , by treatment with regional hyperthermia , platelet activating factor , and compound 48/80 , and by ischemia-reperfusion . in all experimental models , the increase in the gastric erosions and in tba reactants in the gastric mucosa were significantly inhibited by the treatment with superoxide dismutase ( sod ) and/or catalase . pretreatment with allopurinol , a competitive inhibitor of xanthine oxidase , prevented considerably the gastric injury ( a ) induced by burn shock , ( b ) produced by treatment with compound 48/80 , and ( c ) caused by ischemia-reperfusion . by the treatment with anti-rat neutrophil antibody , the gastric mucosal injuries induced by regional hyperthermia , platelet activating factor , and compound 48/80 were significantly inhibited ; however , burn shock and ischemia-reperfusion injuries were not inhibited . these results suggest that oxygen-free radical and lipid peroxidation contribute to the formation of gastric mucosal lesions , and that the sources of oxygen radicals seem to be different among these experimental models . 
pelvic pain : lessons from anatomy and physiology . pelvic pain is often a difficult differential diagnosis in the emergency department . for physiologic reasons , pain in the pelvis is difficult to localize to a specific organ , and pelvic peritonitis is hard to recognize . on the other hand , differences in types of pain can be very useful in arriving at a correct diagnosis . the clinician must learn to recognize superficial and deep somatic pain , and differentiate between various types of visceral pain which originate from inflammation , ischemia , or colic . a review of the anatomy and physiology of pelvic pain helps identify some of the problems as well as potential aids in approaching the patient with pelvic pain . 
can the status of tubal pregnancy be predicted with transvaginal sonography ? a prospective comparison of sonographic , surgical , and serum hcg findings results of transvaginal sonography were compared prospectively with surgical findings and levels of serum human chorionic gonadotropin in 120 women with a proved tubal pregnancy . the most common sonographic finding was a saclike adnexal ring , which was seen in 74 of the women ( 61.7 % ) . this finding was strongly associated with functioning trophoblasts and with an intact fallopian tube . in 39 of the women ( 32.5 % ) an adnexal mass with a complex texture was found . of these 39 women , 20 had a tubal hematoma and six had a ruptured fallopian tube . the size of the tubal mass created by ectopic pregnancy was predicted precisely ( r = .91 , p less than .001 ) , and transvaginal sonography enabled detection of hemoperitoneum with a sensitivity of 91 % ( 68 of 75 women ) . this study suggests that the status of a tubal pregnancy can be predicted reliably on the basis of transvaginal sonographic findings . 
molecular analysis of acute promyelocytic leukemia breakpoint cluster region on chromosome 17 . acute promyelocytic leukemia ( apl ; fab m3 ) is characterized by a predominance of malignant promyelocytes that carry a reciprocal translocation between the long arms of chromosomes 15 and 17 , t ( 15 ; 17 ) ( q22 ; q11.2-q12 ) . this translocation has become diagnostic for apl , as it is present in almost 100 percent of cases . a not i linking clone was used to detect this translocation initially on pulsed-field gel electrophoresis and subsequently with conventional southern ( dna ) analysis . the breakpoints in ten apl cases examined were shown to cluster in a 12-kb region of chromosome 17 , containing two cpg-rich islands . the region is the first intron of the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene ( rara ) . 
different tumor-derived p53 mutants exhibit distinct biological activities . in its wild-type form , the protein p53 can interfere with neoplastic processes . tumor-derived cells often express mutant p53 . full-length mutant forms of p53 isolated so far from transformed mouse cells exhibit three common properties in vitro : loss of transformation-suppressing activity , gain of pronounced transforming potential , and ability to bind the heat shock protein cognate hsc70 . a tumor-derived mouse p53 variant is now described , whose site of mutation corresponds to a hot spot for p53 in human tumors . while absolutely nonsuppressing , it is only weakly transforming and exhibits no detectable hsc70 binding . the data suggest that the ability of a p53 mutant to bind endogenous p53 is not the sole determinant of its oncogenic potential . the data also support the existence of gain-of-function p53 mutants . 
extrageniculate vision in hemianopic humans : saccade inhibition by signals in the blind field . the functional competence of extrageniculate visual pathways in hemianopic humans was demonstrated by showing that distractor signals in the blind half of the visual field could inhibit saccades toward targets in the intact visual field . this inhibitory effect of unseen distractors in patients occurred only when distractors were presented in the temporal half of the visual field , was specific to oculomotor responses , and did not occur in normal subjects . these results show that a peripheral visual signal activates retinotectal pathways to prime the oculomotor system and that these pathways can mediate orienting behavior in hemianopic humans . 
rhodopsin mutants that bind but fail to activate transducin . rhodopsin is a member of a family of receptors that contain seven transmembrane helices and are coupled to g proteins . the nature of the interactions between rhodopsin mutants and the g protein , transduction ( gt ) , was investigated by flash photolysis in order to monitor directly gt binding and dissociation . three mutant opsins with alterations in their cytoplasmic loops bound 11-cis-retinal to yield pigments with native rhodopsin absorption spectra , but they failed to stimulate the guanosine triphosphatase activity of gt . the opsin mutations included reversal of a charged pair conserved in all g protein-coupled receptors at the cytoplasmic border of the third transmembrane helix ( mutant cd1 ) , replacement of 13 amino acids in the second cytoplasmic loop ( mutant cd2 ) , and deletion of 13 amino acids from the third cytoplasmic loop ( mutant ef1 ) . whereas mutant cd1 failed to bind gt , mutants cd2 and ef1 showed normal gt binding but failed to release gt in the presence of guanosine triphosphate . therefore , it appears that at least the second and third cytoplasmic loops of rhodopsin are required for activation of bound gt . 
acute promyelocytic leukemia : impact of hemorrhagic complications on response to induction chemotherapy and survival . from 1976 to 1989 , 21 adult patients with previously untreated acute promyelocytic leukemia were seen at the university of virginia hospital . we reviewed their cases retrospectively to determine the impact of hemorrhagic complications and other factors on treatment outcome . we observed a complete remission rate of 35 % ; the median survival in complete responders was 15 months . evidence of disseminated intravascular coagulation was found in 13 ( 62 % ) of the 21 cases at diagnosis . fatal intracranial hemorrhage was the leading cause of death , occurring in eight ( 40 % ) of the 20 patients evaluated . initial leukocyte count greater than 4.0 x 10 ( 9 ) / l and platelet count less than 20 x 10 ( 9 ) / l were significantly associated with an increased risk of intracranial hemorrhage . in patients with disseminated intravascular coagulation , the rate of intracranial hemorrhage was reduced by treatment with heparin . the high mortality of 40 % ( 8/20 ) due to intracranial hemorrhage during induction was a major contributor to the low complete remission rate of 35 % ( 7/20 ) in this series of consecutive unselected patients with newly diagnosed acute promyelocytic leukemia . 
medicinal leeches : once again at the forefront of medicine . medical grade leeches have recently been used in the management of acute problems relative to venous congestion in patients with traumatic injuries and surgical problems . specific cases , especially in the realm of reconstructive microsurgery , have demonstrated the effectiveness and application of leech therapy . specific contraindications include arterial insufficiency from either anatomic or mechanical obstruction . we present five illustrative cases of successful therapeutic intervention . 
comparison of cefuroxime axetil , cefaclor , and amoxicillin-clavulanate potassium suspensions in acute otitis media in infants and children . in this randomized , blinded , multicenter comparison study , 377 infants and children with acute otitis media ( aom ) received a 10-day course of an oral suspension of one of the following : cefuroxime axetil ( cae ) , 30 mg/kg/day ; cefaclor ( cec ) , 40 mg/kg/day ; or amoxicillin-clavulanate potassium ( amx-cl ) , 40 mg/kg/day . clinical efficacy was determined by pneumatic otoscopy and tympanometric testing 3 to 5 , 11 to 14 , and 22 to 26 days after the initiation of therapy . there was a statistically significant difference among the three treatment groups with respect to clinical outcome ; more patients in the cae group ( 62 % ) than in the cec group ( 46 % ) or the amx-cl group ( 52 % ) had complete resolution of signs and symptoms of aom ( including effusion ) . paired comparisons revealed a significant difference in efficacy between cae and cec and a nearly significant difference between amx-cl and cec . taste acceptability was highest for cec and lowest for this formulation of cae . significantly more patients in the amx-cl group than in the cae or cec group had a side effect , primarily diarrhea , vomiting , or diaper rash . we conclude that cae suspension has greater clinical efficacy than cec and fewer side effects than amx-cl . 
duplex doppler examination of a perinephric abscess in a renal transplant . perinephric abscess has no characteristic ultrasonic appearance or location . differentiation from urinoma , lymphocele , or hematoma depends on clinical and laboratory findings . therapy consists of percutaneous catheter drainage , surgical drainage , and antibiotic therapy . acute rejection is the most common cause of decreased diastolic flow during the immediate postoperative period . acute tubular necrosis does not usually alter blood flow unless it is severe . duplex doppler ultrasonic assessment of the renal transplant during the immediate postoperative period may provide a valuable baseline for comparison if complications develop . baseline and follow-up ultrasonography to evaluate diastolic flow can help determine whether a posttransplant patient should receive emergency or conservative therapy for complications . 
hematoma of the optic nerve sheath after penetrating trauma . we have presented a case involving the diagnosis and management of optic nerve sheath hematoma . our patient 's positive outcome demonstrates the usefulness of megadose steroid therapy for acute optic nerve injury . 
the natural history of lumbar intervertebral disc extrusions treated nonoperatively . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the natural history of morphologic changes within the lumbar spine in patients who sustained lumbar disc extrusions . all patients in this study were treated nonoperatively for radicular pain and neurologic loss . the following questions were addressed : 1 ) does perithecal or perineural fibrosis result when extrusions are not removed surgically , and 2 ) do disc extrusions spontaneously resolve , and , if so , how rapidly ? the study population consisted of 11 patients with extrusions and radiculopathy . all patients were successfully treated nonoperatively . all had a primary complaint of leg pain and all had positive straight leg raising reproducing their leg pain at less than or equal to 60 degrees . additionally , 87 % had muscle weakness on a neurologic basis in a root level distribution corresponding to the site of disc pathology . computed tomographic ( ct ) examinations were obtained on all patients at the inception of treatment . these studies were compared with follow-up mri studies . the initial ct scans were evaluated for the following criteria : disc size and position , thecal sac effacement , nerve root enlargement or displacement , and evidence of central or intervertebral canal stenosis . in addition to the pathomorphology evaluated on the ct scans , follow-up mri studies also evaluated disc hydration at the herniated and contiguous levels , and the presence of perithecal or perineural fibrosis . the following grading system was used to evaluate change in fragment size on the follow-up studies : grade 1-0 to 50 % decrease in size ; grade 2-50 to 75 % decrease in size ; grade 3-75 to 100 % decrease in size . 
metabolic bone disease in lumbar pseudarthrosis . pseudarthrosis occurs in many patients who undergo lumbar spine fusion and it has been suggested that abnormalities of bone metabolism contribute to it . the authors evaluated 47 patients with pseudarthrosis for metabolic bone disease . symptomatic patients with pseudarthrosis underwent metabolic bone evaluation . abnormal results of laboratory tests were found in 7 patients ( 14.9 % ) : 3 low or borderline 1,25 dihydroxy vitamin d3 , 2 elevated 24-hour urine calcium , and 2 low serum testosterone . none of these abnormalities correlated with other clinical findings . bone density was low in 14 of 24 patients in whom it was measured . low values did not correlate with smoking or abnormal laboratory values . metabolic bone abnormalities do not appear to play a frequent or significant role in pseudarthrosis after attempted lumbar spine fusion . 
broad spectrum penicillin as an adequate therapy for acute cholangitis . in a previous study of patients with acute cholecystitis , we demonstrated equal efficacy with a broad spectrum penicillin ( piperacillin ) and a penicillin plus amino-glycoside combination . whether a single agent broad spectrum penicillin is adequate treatment for more severe infections , such as acute cholangitis , however , is still unclear . we , therefore , conducted a three center , prospective , randomized trial to determine whether or not a broad spectrum penicillin alone is adequate therapy for patients with acute cholangitis . during a 36 month period , 96 patients with sepsis and biliary obstruction were randomly assigned to receive either piperacillin ( n = 49 ) or ampicillin plus tobramycin ( n = 47 ) . the two groups receiving antibiotics were similar with respect to all clinical and laboratory parameters . the incidence of blood cultures with positive results ( 20 versus 21 per cent ) and underlying malignant lesions ( 51 versus 62 per cent ) was also similar between the two groups . the percentage of patients with a clinical cure or significant improvement was the same in the two groups ( 69 versus 70 per cent ) . however , there was a significant difference in the cure rate between patients with benign and malignant biliary obstructions ( 83 versus 59 per cent , p less than 0.01 ) . no significant differences were noted between the two antibiotic groups with respect to drug toxicity , but patients with malignant conditions were more prone to antibiotic related toxicities ( 2 versus 19 per cent , p less than 0.05 ) . these data suggest that outcome of treatment in patients with acute cholangitis is similar with either a broad spectrum penicillin or a penicillin plus aminoglycoside combination and is dependent upon the nature of the biliary obstruction . 
total parathyroidectomy and autotransplantation in hyperplasia of the parathyroid gland . hyperparathyroidism caused by multiple-gland hyperplasia has traditionally been treated by subtotal parathyroidectomy . excellent results have been reported by some , particularly in primary hyperparathyroidism , but other have reported a significant incidence of recurrent hyperparathyroidism . since 1979 , we have chosen to avoid the possibility of remedial exploration of the neck and its attendant risks by treating all patients with primary and secondary hyperplasia with total parathyroidectomy and heterotopic autotransplantation . a total of 20 patients were studied . there were no failures of grafts and no operative complications . we conclude that this procedure is a reliable and safe alternative in the treatment of primary or secondary hyperplasia of the parathyroid gland . 
congenital dilatation of the bile duct in 100 instances and its relationship with anomalous junction [ published erratum appears in surg gynecol obstet 1991 mar ; 172 ( 3 ) :246 ] congenital dilatation of the bile duct ( cdbd ) or choledochal cyst has been demonstrated to be associated with an anomalous junction of the pancreaticobiliary ductal system . multifarious clinical signs and symptoms of cdbd have been shown to be closely related with the presence of this anomalous junction . in the present study , 100 instances of cdbd treated surgically at our institutions during a 30 year period were classified into two types according to the morphologic features of dilatation of the bile duct ; there were 77 instances of the cystic type and 23 of the cylindric type . morphologic features of the lesion , clinical signs and symptoms and laboratory findings in these 100 instances were clinically analyzed . in almost all of the patients who were less than one year of age , the disease was of the cystic type and patients presented with either a palpable mass or jaundice as the main symptom . in patients more than one year of age , the disease was of either the cystic or cylindric type . a history of episodes of characteristic abdominal pain accompanied by elevated levels of serum amylase was present in 70 of the patients with the cystic type of disease and in all of the patients with the cylindric type . histologic sections from the patients showed glandular formation with chronic inflammation , possibly a result of refluxed activated pancreatic juice ; in contrast , histologic sections from the remaining patients of all ages showed only thickening of the fibrous layer . thus , such variable morphologic features and clinical signs and symptoms in cdbd are highly dependent on two factors -- the age at onset and the reflux of pancreatic juice into the bile duct through the common channel . 
a comparison of hospital costs and morbidity between octogenarians and other patients undergoing general surgical operations . the hospital costs and clinical results of 304 patients who were more than 80 years old and who underwent general surgical procedures were evaluated . the over-all mortality rate was 14 per cent ; 19.9 per cent occurred in patients admitted under emergency conditions as compared with 8.9 per cent that occurred in patients undergoing elective procedures ( p less than 0.001 ) . seventy-nine per cent of the patients were discharged and 7 per cent required care in a skilled nursing facility . survival rates were as good or better than standard life table survival rates for 80 year old patients . costs were higher in those who were admitted under emergent conditions or who died in the hospital . deaths were a result of complications of the primary disease rather than associated disease in most groups . neither costs nor length of stay could accurately predict survival of individual patients . we concluded that health resources should be directed at treating problems , such as cholelithiasis , hernia or carcinoma , early before complications develop . 
a multifactorial analysis of mortality and morbidity in perforated peptic ulcer disease . perforated peptic ulcer disease remains a source of considerable morbidity and mortality , and the suggested methods of surgical therapy are diverse . we reviewed the course of 113 patients who were treated surgically and identified 14 factors that influenced the morbidity or mortality rates , or both . multiple regression analysis showed that the number of coexisting medical conditions , a lower mean blood pressure level and the duration of acute perforation were independent risk factors for death , while age , use of a bronchodilator , a lower mean blood pressure level and the number of coexisting medical conditions correlated positively with all complications . a duodenal site was independently favorable with respect to all complications . the type of operation performed either simple closure , vagotomy and drainage or resection , did not influence morbidity or mortality . the most severely ill patients also did not benefit from any particular type of operation in the short term . long term results were improved with definitive operation , as measured by the visick classification and the need for reoperations . definitive operations are recommended for virtually all patients with perforated peptic ulcer . 
surgical management of islet cell dysmaturation syndrome in young children . islet cell dysmaturation syndrome ( icds ) encompasses the causes of infantile hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia histologically described as islet cell hyperplasia , pancreatic adenomatosis and nesidioblastosis . eleven infants underwent 14 pancreatic resections for icds from 1965 to 1990 at the university of california at los angeles medical center for severe hypoglycemia unresponsive to medical therapy . seizures were the presenting symptoms of hypoglycemia in eight infants . six patients had nesidioblastosis , four had islet cell hyperplasia and one patient had an adenoma with histologically normal pancreatic islet cells . four neonates underwent 80 per cent pancreatic resection ; three with nesidioblastosis required reoperation ( 90 to 95 per cent resection ) . four older infants underwent 80 per cent pancreatic resection but required diazoxide for less than six months postoperatively . three infants underwent 90 to 95 per cent pancreatic resection . none have required reoperation or postoperative medications . all infants are normoglycemic without pancreatic exocrine insufficiency and none had postoperative complications . five infants had preoperative neurologic impairment , with three having severe retardation ; all showed some improvement postoperatively , but only one infant now has normal findings on neurologic examination . early diagnosis and aggressive surgical resection should minimize neurologic complications of the icds . 
immediate preoperative phlebotomy with autologous blood donation for aortic replacement . the preferential use of autologous blood provided by phlebotomy can reduce the need for homologous blood transfusion in patients undergoing extensive elective operations . this blood is usually provided either by intraoperative isovolemic hemodilution or phlebotomy one to two weeks preoperatively . to minimize the intraoperative time delay or preoperative period between phlebotomy and operation required in these patients , we performed preoperative isovolemic hemodilution in 69 patients one to two days prior to elective aortic replacement for infrarenal aneurysmal disease . patients underwent phlebotomy a mean of 0.57 + / - 0.01 liter of whole blood ; volume was replaced with lactated ringer 's solution . hematocrit levels decreased from a mean value of 42.9 + / - 0.4 per cent to 33.7 + / - 0.3 per cent . mean intraoperative blood loss was 1.2 + / - 0.05 liters . hemodynamic parameters ( blood pressure , cardiac output , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure , central venous pressure , oxygen delivery and systemic vascular resistance ) remained stable throughout the perioperative and intraoperative time periods . in addition , we evaluated the technical modification of exclusion aneurysmorrhaphy ( n = 50 ) versus open aneurysmorraphy ( n = 19 ) on reduction of intraoperative homologous blood transfusion in these patients . seventy-two per cent ( 36 of 50 ) of patients whose aneurysms were excluded received no homologous blood intraoperatively . blood loss was decreased in the excluded versus open aneurysmorraphy group , 920 + / - 90 milliliters versus 2,030 + / - 250 milliliters , as were homologous blood transfusion requirements , 175 + / - 35 milliliters versus 570 + / - 119 milliliters . two patients died ( 2.9 per cent mortality rate ) , and there was no increase in morbidity . surgical treatment of large aortic aneurysms is frequently performed on an urgent basis ; thus , provision of autologous blood for this operation in a short period of time may be beneficial . isovolemic hemodilution performed during the immediate preoperative period can reduce homologous blood requirements and be safely performed without adverse effects on mortality , morbidity and myocardial performance . exclusion aneurysmorrhaphy may further reduce dependence on homologous blood . 
results of vein graft reconstruction of the lower extremity in diabetic and nondiabetic patients . the results of 171 vein grafts of the lower extremity were evaluated . these were placed between january 1981 and december 1987 in 150 patients , 75 diabetic and 75 nondiabetic , to determine the influence of diabetes on the outcome of the procedure . one and four year patency rates were determined by a life table analysis . no statistical differences in primary patency were found between the patients with diabetes and those without diabetes for all indications of operations ( one year , diabetic patients 95 + / - 3 per cent , nondiabetic patients 85 + / - 3 per cent ; four years , diabetic patients 89 + / - 11 per cent and nondiabetic patients 80 + / - 12 per cent ; p = n.s. ) . for those operated upon for salvage of the limb because of rest pain , ulceration or gangrene , patency in diabetic patients at one year approached a statistically significant advantage ( diabetic patients 94 + / - 4 per cent versus nondiabetic patients 79 + / - 8 per cent ; p = 0.056 ) . we believe that arterial reconstruction of the lower extremity can be performed upon patients with diabetes with the same high degree of success for revascularization and salvage of the limb as can be accomplished in nondiabetic patients . this is true even though those with diabetes present with necrosis of the tissue and more often require bypass to distal tibial arteries . 
effects of medical and surgical treatment on cerebral perfusion and cognition in patients with chronic cerebral ischemia . the effects of medical treatment with and without cerebral revascularization procedures on cognition and cerebral blood flow were compared among 36 patients with extracranial occlusive cerebrovascular disease and cognitive impairments . three comparable groups were studied . the first group ( n = 18 ) received only medical treatment by control of risk factors for stroke ( including hypertension , diabetes , and hyperlipidemia ) and antiplatelet aggregant medication . the second group ( n = 10 ) had the same medical treatment plus superficial temporal-to-middle cerebral artery bypass , and the third group had the same medical treatment plus carotid endarterectomy . regional cerebral blood flow and cognition were monitored in all three treatment groups over a 3-year interval . all groups showed stabilization without expected rates of decline for both cerebral blood flow and cognition , but no statistically significant differences emerged among the treatment groups . 
cavernous-carotid thrombosis and ocular motor paresis a 64-year-old man presented with the acute onset of unilateral blindness and ipsilateral ocular motor paresis . occlusion of the central retinal artery associated with thrombosis of the internal carotid artery in the cavernous sinus was demonstrated by angiography and magnetic resonance imaging . cases of carotid thrombosis associated with ipsilateral ocular motor paresis are rare . the pathophysiology of intracavernous carotid thrombosis is discussed in connection with blood supply of the cranial nerves in the cavernous sinus . 
ascending cholangitis : surgery versus endoscopic or percutaneous drainage . a retrospective review of 61 patients with calculous cholangitis was carried out . there were 31 men and 30 women and their mean age was 75.8 years . all patients had abdominal pain , 87 % had chills and fever , 65 % had clinical jaundice , 23 % were in shock , and 54 % had positive blood cultures . because intravenous hydration and antibiotics did not help , 33 patients underwent surgery , 25 patients underwent endoscopic papillotomy ( ep ) , and three patients underwent percutaneous transhepatic drainage of the common bile duct ( ptd ) . morbidity in the surgery group included two wound infections , one respiratory failure , and one renal failure . morbidity in the ep-ptd group was one case of arterial bleeding requiring surgery and one of pancreatitis treated conservatively . two patients ( 6 % ) died in the surgery group , one of sepsis and the other of cardiorespiratory arrest . in the ep-ptd group nine patients ( 32 % ) died of sepsis and multisystem organ failure . these patients were considered too ill to undergo surgery and thus repeat ep-ptd was carried out . cholangitis persisted , and retained common bile duct stones with sepsis was the cause of death . thus when initial ep or ptd is unsuccessful , surgical exploration of the common bile duct should be carried out to control sepsis . 
are cystgastrostomy and cystjejunostomy equivalent operations for pancreatic pseudocysts ? to compare the effectiveness of cystgastrostomy and cystjejunostomy for treatment of pancreatic pseudocysts , 39 patients with cystgastrostomy were compared to 59 patients with cystjejunostomy . the groups were comparable in age , sex , cause of pancreatitis , pseudocyst location , symptoms , and preoperative serum amylase level . cysts treated with cystgastrostomy were larger ( mean diameter , 11.1 + / - 0.9 cm ) than cysts treated by cystjejunostomy ( mean diameter , 6.7 + / - 0.7 cm ) ( p less than 0.05 ) . mean duration of surgery was 148 + / - 11 minutes for cystgastrostomy versus 265 + / - 15 minutes for cystjejunostomy ( p less than 0.05 ) . mean blood loss was 397 + / - 82 ml for cystgastrostomy versus 703 + / - 80 ml for cystjejunostomy ( p less than 0.05 ) mean intraoperative fluid requirements were 2640 + / - 313 ml for cystgastrostomy and 4403 + / - 362 ml for cystjejunostomy ( p less than 0.05 ) . cyst recurrence was 10 % for cystgastrostomy versus 7 % for cystgastrostomy . postoperative gastrointestinal bleeding occurred in 8 % of patients with cystgastrostomy and in 2 % of patients with cystjejunostomy . infection problems with cystjejunostomy included two wound infections and one case of septicemia ; infection problems with cystjejunostomy included five intraabdominal abscesses , two wound infections , and one case of pneumonia . two patients died with cystgastrostomy ( both from gastrointestinal bleeding ) ; two patients died with cystjejunostomy ( one from intraabdominal sepsis and one from pulmonary embolus ) . cystgastrostomy was used for significantly larger pseudocysts and was associated with significantly less blood loss and operating time than cystjejunostomy ( p less than 0.05 ) . morbidity and mortality from cystgastrostomy and cystjejunostomy were comparable , although gastrointestinal bleeding was more common with cystgastrostomy and intraabdominal abscess was more common with cystjejunostomy . since cystgastrostomy can usually be performed more quickly and with less blood loss , it should be considered whenever anatomically feasible . 
pancreatogastrostomy : a safe drainage procedure after pancreatoduodenectomy . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the role of pancreaticogastrostomy as an alternative method of restoring pancreaticointestinal continuity after pancreaticoduodenectomy . since 1975 , 45 patients have undergone pancreaticogastrostomy after pancreaticoduodenectomy at our institution . pancreaticoduodenectomy was performed for pancreatic carcinoma ( 24 patients ) , ampullary carcinoma ( 8 patients ) , duodenal carcinoma ( 4 patients ) , common bile duct carcinoma ( 4 patients ) , pancreatic islet cell carcinoma ( 1 patient ) , trauma ( 1 patient ) , extensive colon carcinoma ( 1 patient ) , chronic pancreatitis ( 1 patient ) , and gastroduodenal artery aneurysm ( 1 patient ) . there was one operative death , for an overall operative mortality rate of 2 % , and seven patients had major postoperative complications , for an overall morbidity rate of 15 % . no pancreatic anastomotic leaks or other complications related to the pancreaticogastrostomy occurred . twenty-four patients have died of recurrent carcinoma , with a mean survival of 25 months ( range , 5 to 66 months ) , and 20 patients are alive and well , with a mean follow-up of 27 months ( range , 2 to 106 months ) . eight of these patients are alive 2 or more years after operation and four do not have exocrine pancreatic insufficiency . this experience confirms that pancreaticogastrostomy is a safe method of pancreatic drainage after pancreaticoduodenectomy and suggests that it may have technical advantages and therefore merits more widespread application . 
early tracheostomy for primary airway management in the surgical critical care setting . during a 12-month period , 264 patients with multiple injuries who required mechanical ventilation were admitted to the surgical intensive care unit . one hundred twenty patients ( 46 % ) were disengaged from the ventilator , and 38 patients ( 14 % ) died . of the remaining 106 patients ( 40 % ) 51 patients ( group i ) were to receive tracheostomy within 1 to 7 days , and 55 patients ( group ii ) underwent late ( 8 or more days after admission ) tracheostomy . multiple variables in four categories ( admission , operative , ventilatory , and outcome ) were analyzed prospectively to define the impact that early tracheostomy had on duration of mechanical ventilation , intensive care stay , and hospital stay . morbidity and mortality rates of the procedures were assessed . early tracheostomy , in a homogeneous group of critically ill patients , is associated with a significant decrease in duration of mechanical ventilation , as well as shorter intensive care unit and hospital stays , compared with translaryngeal endotracheal intubation . there were no deaths attributable to tracheostomy , and overall morbidity of the procedures was 4 % . we conclude that early tracheostomy has an overall risk equivalent to that of endotracheal intubation . furthermore , early tracheostomy shortens days on the ventilator and intensive care unit and hospital days and should be considered for patients in the intensive care unit at risk for more than 7 days of intubation . 
the use of the jarvik-7 total artificial heart and the symbion ventricular assist device as a bridge to transplantation . the proliferation of transplantation programs has not been paralleled by a similar increase in the availability of organ donors . between 1984 and 1987 , 104 orthotopic heart transplantations were performed at loyola university medical center . during the same period , 25 patients died while awaiting a donor organ . to reduce the mortality , we began using the total artificial heart ( tah ) and a ventricular assist device ( vad ) as a bridge to transplantation in 1988 . of 29 patients who underwent transplantation , 15 patients required a tah and three patients required a vad as a bridge . the underlying heart conditions were ischemic cardiomyopathy ( 11 patients ) , dilated cardiomyopathy ( 5 patients ) , giant cell myocarditis ( 1 patient ) , and allograft failure ( 1 patient ) . the average duration of mechanical support was 10 days ( range , 1 to 35 days ) . of the 17 patients who successfully underwent transplantation , 1 patient died at 17 days because of acute rejection of the transplanted heart , and another patient died at 14 days because of a cerebral vascular event . fifteen patients ( 83 % ) were long-term survivors . nine patients required reoperation for bleeding . while the mechanical device was in place , the activated clotting time was maintained between 170 and 200 seconds with heparin . dipyridamole was given . we conclude that the tah and vad are excellent mechanical bridges to transplantation . 
heparin-induced thrombocytopenia in patients who undergo open heart surgery . to determine whether heparin-dependent antiplatelet antibodies ( haab ) have an effect on morbidity and/or mortality rates , we reviewed the cases of 3438 patients who underwent open heart surgery from 1981 to 1989 . forty-six patients ( 1.3 % ) had haab . the patients were divided into two groups : those patients who were known to have haab before surgery ( group i ) and those patients who were diagnosed with haab after surgery ( group ii ) . group i patients ( n = 5 ) were pretreated with platelet-inhibiting drugs before reexposure to heparin during cardiopulmonary bypass and were maintained with strict abstinence from heparin afterward . their lowest observed platelet counts ranged from 42,000 / mm3 to 89,000 / mm3 ( median , 63,00 / mm3 ) . thromboembolic complications did not occur , and all patients survived . group ii patients ( n = 41 ) who were diagnosed to have haab after surgery had not been pretreated with platelet-inhibiting drugs before surgery . lowest platelet counts ranged from 11,000 / mm3 to 128,000 / mm3 ( median , 42,000 / mm3 ) . bleeding complications occurred in 21 patients ( 51 % ) , and thromboembolic complications occurred in 13 patients ( 32 % ) . hospital mortality in group ii patients was 37 % . late recognition of haab was associated with an increase in morbidity and mortality rates . thromboembolic complications of haab , which had been diagnosed before surgery , were eliminated , and bleeding was reduced by pretreatment with platelet-inhibiting drugs and strict abstinence from heparin after surgery . 
anomalies of intestinal rotation in childhood : analysis of 447 cases . this report concerns 447 infants and children with anomalies of rotation and fixation . patients were placed in four groups based on initial symptoms . group a involved 18 patients with acute midgut volvulus . at laparotomy , midgut volvulus was noted and reduction of midgut volvulus and a ladd procedure were performed in 10 cases and resection was required in 8 . there were five deaths ( 28 % ) . group b included 54 children with chronic symptoms of intermittent volvulus or duodenal obstruction . group c involved 44 cases of malrotation observed during exploration for other disorders . patients in groups b and c underwent a ladd procedure and appendectomy . there were five unrelated deaths . group d included 331 neonates with malrotation caused by either diaphragmatic hernia ( n = 111 ) or abdominal wall defects ( n = 220 ) . a ladd procedure was performed on 48 patients with abdominal wall defects and 29 surviving children with diaphragmatic hernia . only 2 of 172 ( 1.2 % ) patients with abdominal wall defects and 1 of 34 ( 2.9 % ) patients with diaphragmatic hernia not treated for malrotation had midgut volvulus . midgut volvulus is more common in infants and is associated with a high mortality rate ( 28 % ) . patients with malrotation and chronic obstructive symptoms or those observed during other elective procedures should undergo a ladd procedure because of the risk of midgut volvulus . the risk of midgut volvulus is low in patients with abdominal wall defects and , probably as a result of adhesions from previous neonatal operations . 
long-term follow-up of the ileoanal anastomosis in children and young adults . the purpose of this study was to carry out a long-term study of the ileoanal anastomosis ( iaa ) in children and young adults , comparing the straight iaa to the j pouch . one hundred twenty-one young people who had undergone iaa were studied , with 114 available for long-term follow-up . one hundred one were 18 years and under . forty-nine patients had a straight iaa and 72 had a j-pouch reservoir . there were no deaths . after surgery , three children had intraabdominal sepsis and one had pelvic sepsis , but it did not lead to excision of the iaa . the mean stool frequency in all 114 patients was 5.0 + / - 2.5 per day and 1.2 + / - 1.1 at night . the mean number of stools for the straight iaa was 6 per day and 2.1 at night . the mean number of stools for the straight iaa with balloon dilations was 5.8 per day and 1.2 at night , and for the j pouch it was 4 per day and 1 at night . patients with both the j pouch and straight iaa had good to excellent sensation , with patients with the j pouch always able to distinguish flatus from stool in 87 % of patients and almost always in 13 % . daytime continence was very good in both groups . moderate nighttime loss of stool occurred in 10 patients , 6 with a straight iaa and 4 with a j pouch . ninety-five percent of the 114 patients were satisfied or very satisfied , with most children with a j pouch very satisfied . the j pouch remains the procedure of choice in young people . 
kidney transplantation in patients aged sixty years and older . outcomes of renal transplantation were reviewed for 26 transplants performed in 25 patients 60 years of age or older between 1985 and 1989 . three grafts were from family donors and 23 were from cadaver donors . twenty-one were first transplants and five were retransplants . cyclosporine was used as primary immunosuppression and azathioprine and prednisone were administered to most patients . overall patient and graft actuarial survival rates were 79 % and 71 % , respectively , at both 1 and 3 years . patients ( n = 14 ) free of both diabetes and cardiac disease ( low risk ) had 1 - and 3-year patient and graft survival rates of 91 % and 84 % , respectively . conversely , high-risk patients ( n = 12 ) had patient and graft survival rates at 1 and 3 years of 67 % and 58 % , respectively . early deaths ( less than or equal to 6 months ) were caused by sepsis ( two patients ) or cardiac events ( three patients ) , and four of the five were in high-risk patients . irreversible rejections and serious infectious complications were not as common as steroid-induced diabetes , which occurred in five patients . this experience suggests that kidney transplantation can be done safely and successfully in patients older than 60 years of age and should be the treatment of choice for low-risk patients in this category . 
results of infrainguinal bypass for limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease . limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease ( esrd ) is complicated by the diffuse , obstructive , calcific arteriopathy that makes anastomotic technique especially critical . furthermore , decreased resistance to infection and impaired wound healing produced by host-factor deficiencies such as diabetes mellitus , hypoalbuminemia , uremia , and immunosuppression produce additional obstacles to successful limb salvage . this report summarizes our experience with distal arterial bypass procedures in these patients . a total of 32 bypass procedures were performed for limb salvage in 24 patients ( 17 diabetic ) during a period of 5 years . the operative mortality rate was 6 % . during the same period , 635 infrainguinal bypass procedures were performed by the in situ technique in patients without esrd . primary bypass patency was comparable in both groups at 24 months ( 92 % vs 90 % ) . in the group with esrd , overall limb salvage was 83 % at 2 years . life-table analysis of bypass patency and limb salvage was thought not to be appropriate in the population with esrd beyond 2 years because of the increased mortality rate ( 38 % ; 9/24 ) during this interval . it is important that limb salvage was achieved in diabetic patients with esrd in the presence of extensive foot gangrene or ischemic ulceration . revascularization should be considered strongly for limb salvage in all patients in this difficult population . 
naloxone and spinal fluid drainage as adjuncts in the surgical treatment of thoracoabdominal and thoracic aneurysms . forty-seven patients who were treated for thoracoabdominal or thoracic aneurysms over a 5 1/2 - year period were analyzed for neurologic deficit risk . patients were divided into two groups for analysis . twenty-four patients , who were treated from january 1984 to december 1986 , did not undergo spinal fluid drainage or naloxone administration ( group a ) . twenty-three patients , who were treated from january 1987 to august 1989 , had spinal fluid drainage ( group b ) ; 12 patients in this group also received naloxone as an intravenous drip at 1 microgram/kg/hr for 48 hours after surgery . permanent neurologic deficits occurred in seven ( 29 % ) group a patients but in only one ( 4 % ) group b patient , who did not receive naloxone ( p less than 0.03 ) . the first two group b patients to receive naloxone showed complete reversal of neurologic deficits on waking from anesthesia . this significant reduction in neurologic deficit was associated with an increased 1-year survival rate ( 72 % in group a , 91 % in group b ) . we conclude that the use of naloxone and spinal fluid drainage reduces the incidence of neurologic deficit that is associated with repair of thoracoabdominal and thoracic aortic aneurysms . this reduction in neurologic deficit is associated with improved survival in the long term . the observed reversal of postoperative neurologic deficits with naloxone implicates opiates as a major factor in the pathophysiology of spinal cord ischemia . 
long-term results of surgical resection of locally advanced colorectal carcinoma . this study was undertaken to review the long-term results of multivisceral resection of locally advanced colorectal carcinoma . between 1964 and 1980 , 1042 patients underwent exploratory surgery for colorectal cancer . of these , 58 patients ( 5.5 % ) underwent curative multivisceral resection for suspected contiguous invasion by the primary tumor . follow-up was complete for all patients . the primary tumors were located in the rectum ( 38 patients ) , sigmoid ( 9 patients ) , left colon ( 6 patients ) , and right colon ( 5 patients ) . en bloc resection of other viscera included uterus , adnexa , bladder , vagina , small intestine , abdominal wall , liver , stomach , kidney , and ureter . the operative morbidity and mortality rates were 31 % and 1.7 % , respectively . resection margins were free of tumor in 54 patients . in the four patients with tumor-positive resection margins , recurrence of disease was evident between 8 and 22 weeks after surgery ( mean survival time , 8.2 months ) . carcinomatous invasion of the resected contiguous organ was confirmed in 49 patients ( 84 % ) . the mean survival time for patients without lymph node metastases was 100.7 months , but it was only 16.2 months ( p less than 0.01 ) for patients with lymph node metastases . actuarial 5-year disease-free survival rate for patients without lymph node metastases was 76 % ( 36 of 47 patients ) . none of the patients ( 0 of 11 ) with lymph node metastases survived for 5 years . three of 36 of the 5-year survivors experienced recurrence of disease before the seventh postoperative year ; no cancer-related deaths occurred between 7 and 25 years . these data suggest that survival in locally advanced colorectal carcinoma is more dependent on lymph node status than on the extent of local invasion . effective disease control associated with survival in the long term can be achieved by multivisceral resection . 
effects of inflammation and fibrosis on pulmonary function in diffuse lung fibrosis . to investigate the relation between lung function and inflammation and fibrosis in patients with diffuse lung fibrosis , a study was made of untreated patients without appreciable airway obstruction ( 14 patients with cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis and seven with pneumoconiosis ) . quantitative assessment of inflammatory infiltration and fibrosis was carried out on open lung biopsy specimens and compared with lung volumes , carbon monoxide transfer factor ( tlco ) , tlco corrected for alveolar volume ( tlco/va ) , and arterial blood gases at rest and during exercise . the degree of fibrosis and the degree of cellular infiltration were positively correlated . lung volumes and tlco were correlated with the grades of fibrosis and cellular infiltration of alveoli ; arterial blood gases during exercise tended to correlate with both fibrosis and infiltration ( p less than 0.06 ) . in contrast , morphological data were not correlated with gas exchange at rest or with tlco/va . it is concluded that , in untreated patients with diffuse lung fibrosis , lung volumes , tlco , and arterial blood gases during exercise reflect the lung lesions , and that the pulmonary function tests used can not discriminate between fibrosis and infiltration of the lung by inflammatory cells . 
management of recurrent malignant pleural effusion in the united kingdom : survey of clinical practice . malignant pleural effusions are often symptomatic and tend to recur after simple aspiration . pleurodesis may prevent recurrence of the effusion ; many agents and techniques have been described . a questionnaire was sent to 448 clinicians in the united kingdom to determine how pleurodesis is performed in practice . there was a 56 % overall response , with replies from 101 respiratory physicians , 88 general physicians , 29 thoracic surgeons , and 35 general surgeons . general surgeons saw few cases of malignant pleural effusion and rarely performed pleurodesis . a patient with recurrent malignant pleural effusion would usually be managed with pleurodesis by 76 ( 76 % ) respiratory physicians , 26 ( 30 % ) general physicians , and 23 ( 81 % ) thoracic surgeons ; a further 29 ( 33 % ) general physicians would refer such patients to another specialist . most medical pleurodesis were performed by junior staff , whereas consultant thoracic surgeons were more likely to be concerned with the procedure . all the thoracic surgeons used an intercostal tube drain , usually with suction . an intercostal tube drain was used routinely by only 54 ( 54 % ) of the respiratory physicians and 28 ( 32 % ) general physicians . thoracic surgeons preferred talc for pleurodesis whereas physicians most commonly used tetracycline . the variety of methods in use supports the need for randomised , controlled studies to determine the most effective technique of pleurodesis . 
use of a management plan for treating asthma in an emergency department . a standardised management protocol has been developed for the assessment and treatment of adults with acute asthma attending an emergency department . the management protocol consists of an assessment sheet for recording essential features of the history and examination findings and a flow diagram with guidelines for initial management that were based on spirometric recordings . the protocol was introduced at wellington hospital in 1986 . the effect of this intervention was assessed by analysing emergency department records during the three months before and one year after the introduction of the protocol . the use of the assessment sheet improved history taking and led to the increased use of serial measures of airflow obstruction and improved documentation of follow up arrangements . the provision of management guidelines influenced the emphasis of management , including an increased use of corticosteroids intravenously and more frequent use of an additional dose of nebulised bronchodilator . in the light of the initial experience the protocol has been modified and its use either in an emergency department or in general practice is recommended . 
the hyperimmunoglobulinaemia e and recurrent infections syndrome in an adult [ published erratum appears in thorax 1990 dec ; 45 ( 12 ) :984 ] a 27 year old white woman with a history of chronic eczema and episodes of serious infection of the chest , skin , and bone presented with acute respiratory failure . she was found to have a spontaneous right pneumothorax and a pneumatocele in the left upper lobe . despite a left upper lobectomy she was left with chronic respiratory failure , bullous lung disease , and bilateral bronchiectasis . the hyperimmunoglobulinaemia e and recurrent infections syndrome was diagnosed only in adult life . 
bronchoalveolar lavage findings in a patient with the organic dust toxic syndrome . a previously healthy student developed the organic dust toxic syndrome after unloading a grain silo for one day . bronchoalveolar lavage seven days later showed a total cell count six times normal with 70 % lymphocytes . this suggests that the previously described acute neutrophil influx into the alveolar spaces in this syndrome is rapidly replaced by a lymphocyte dominated infiltration . 
age-related spontaneous intracerebral hematoma in a german community . we investigated incidence , age distribution in relation to etiology , and localization of spontaneous intracerebral hematoma in 100 consecutive cases . incidence in the total population of the giessen area was estimated to be greater than 11/100 ,000 inhabitants/yr and increased with age . there was a trend toward higher incidence in males . overall mortality was 27 % , 22 % of 58 patients aged less than 70 years and 33 % of 42 patients aged greater than or equal to 70 years . hypertensive putaminal hematoma showed the highest mortality rate ( 42 % , 10 of 24 cases ) . chronic alcoholism and anticoagulant medication influenced the mortality rate unfavourably . we found the following localizations and etiologies to have a specific relation with age : 1 ) lobar hematomas from vascular malformations , group aged less than 40 years ; 2 ) hypertensive putaminal hematomas and hypertensive thalamic hematomas , group aged 40-69 years ; and 3 ) lobar hematomas , group aged greater than or equal to 70 years . alcoholism was an additional factor in 38 % of the 13 middle-aged men with hypertensive putaminal hematomas . fourteen cases of spontaneous intracerebral hematoma were possibly due to cerebral amyloid angiopathy . six of these 14 patients had recurrent lobar hematomas , but only three of the six could be histologically investigated . in these three cases , cerebral amyloid angiopathy was proven . 
leukoaraiosis , intracerebral hemorrhage , and arterial hypertension . to investigate whether the observed association of leukoaraiosis with intracerebral hemorrhage is direct or mediated by risk factors , we compared 116 patients with intracerebral hemorrhage confirmed by computed tomography and 155 controls without intracerebral hemorrhage , evaluating the prevalence of leukoaraiosis and vascular risk factors . leukoaraiosis was observed in 21 ( 18 % ) of the 116 patients and in 12 ( 8 % ) of the 155 controls ( p less than 0.01 ) . only two ( 6 % ) of the 31 patients with lobar hemorrhage had leukoaraiosis on computed tomograms , compared with 17 ( 24 % ) of the 71 patients with basal ganglionic hemorrhage ( p less than 0.05 ) . leukoaraiosis was significantly correlated with intracerebral hemorrhage after controlling for age and sex by using multiple logistic regression analysis , while the correlation disappeared after controlling for hypertension . our results indicate that leukoaraiosis is not an independent risk factor for intracerebral hemorrhage . 
retinal infarction during sleep and wakefulness . brain and retinal infarctions during sleep have been attributed to focal hypoperfusion caused by systemic hypotension combined with underlying arterial stenosis , rather than to embolism . because some retinal emboli may be visualized on ophthalmoscopy , we studied 24 consecutive patients ( 18 men and six women ) aged 26-78 ( mean 58 ) years with recent retinal infarction and determined whether the infarction had occurred during sleep or wakefulness . all patients underwent dilated ophthalmoscopy and a carotid artery study ( arteriography in 20 , duplex ultrasound in the remaining four ) , and 12 had echocardiography . retinal infarction occurred during sleep at an unexpectedly rate ( 14 of 24 observed compared with eight of 24 expected , p = 0.02 ) . retinal cholesterol emboli were seen in one half of the patients regardless of whether the retinal infarction had occurred during sleep or wakefulness . carotid artery disease was found in seven of the 14 patients in whom infarction had occurred during sleep and in eight of the 10 patients in whom infarction had occurred during wakefulness ( p = 0.21 ) . cerebrovascular occlusive disease was not found in the five patients aged less than 50 years . our findings suggest that embolism is a common mechanism of retinal infarction during sleep or wakefulness , that in patients aged greater than 50 years extracranial carotid artery disease is a common source of retinal emboli , and that the retina may be especially susceptible to infarction during sleep . 
the differentiation of delayed serologic and delayed hemolytic transfusion reactions : incidence , long-term serologic findings , and clinical significance . delayed serologic transfusion reactions ( dstrs ) and delayed hemolytic transfusion reactions ( dhtrs ) were studied in a large tertiary-care hospital . a dstr was defined by the posttransfusion finding of a positive direct antiglobulin test ( dat ) and a newly developed alloantibody specificity . a dhtr was defined as a dstr case that showed clinical and/or laboratory evidence of hemolysis . thirty-four cases of dstr , 70 percent of which were due to anti-e and/or - jka , were documented prospectively over a 20-month period . retrospective review of the medical records found clinical evidence of hemolysis in only 6 ( 18 % ) of the 34 . thus , the incidence of dstr was 1 ( 0.66 % ) of 151 recipients with posttransfusion samples available for testing , whereas the incidence of dhtr was only 1 ( 0.12 % ) of 854 patients tested . fifteen of the 34 patients were followed for up to 174 days after reaction . twelve of the 15 still demonstrated a positive dat with anti-igg only . eluate studies indicated that the persistence of a positive dat after dstr or dhtr may involve several immunologic mechanisms , including the development of posttransfusion autoantibodies . this study indicates 1 ) that dstrs are a frequent finding in multiply transfused patients , although most cases are benign and fail to meet rigid criteria for dhtr , and 2 ) that the persistence of a positive dat after dstr or dhtr is common . 
red cell autoantibodies , multiple immunoglobulin classes , and autoimmune hemolysis . the effects and interrelationships of multiple immunoglobulin coating ( i.e. , increased red cell [ rbc ] - bound igm and/or iga in addition to igg ) were investigated in 404 patients with warm-reactive rbc autoantibodies on 590 occasions . multiple immunoglobulins were detected by enzyme-linked direct antiglobulin tests in 218 samples ( 37 % ) , but in only 87 ( 15 % ) by agglutination methods . differences in populations were examined by chi-square , with p less than 0.005 being required for significance because of the multiple tests . compared with igg coating alone , multiple immunoglobulins were significantly associated with larger quantities ( greater than 800 molecules/rbc ) of igg , multiple igg subclasses , igg3 and c3d bound to the cells , and with serum haptoglobin levels of less than 0.1 g per l. the latter association was still significant when higher levels of rbc-bound igg and subclass pattern were taken into account . in samples with multiple immunoglobulin coating , there was no significant relationship ( p greater than 0.05 ) between haptoglobins of less than 0.1 g per l and either c3d or multiple igg subclasses . it was concluded that multiple immunoglobulin coating , even when undetected by agglutination methods , is a major cause of hemolysis : it is part of a more generalized autoimmune response and acts with other factors such as the quantity of bound igg , the igg subclass pattern , and complement ; it also has an important hemolytic effect in its own right . 
clinical significance of white cell antibodies in febrile nonhemolytic transfusion reactions . febrile nonhemolytic transfusion reactions ( fnhtrs ) are associated with white cell ( wbc ) antibodies . the purposes of this study were to determine the frequency of wbc antibodies , to associate the severity of reactions with antibody specificity , and to distinguish fnhtrs from infection and postoperative fever . by using the granulocyte indirect immunofluorescence test in conjunction with lymphocytotoxicity testing , it was found that 70 percent of fnhtrs in 24 patients involved wbc antibodies . the remaining 30 percent of apparent fnhtrs were associated with infections and postoperative fever . granulocyte-specific antibodies were as prevalent as hla antibodies and were associated with the severest reactions . because fnhtrs occur with granulocyte-specific antibodies , hla antibodies , and possible monocyte-specific antibodies ( untested in this and other studies ) , these reactions could be grouped together as wbc-associated reactions . 
use of somatostatin for complications occurring after liver transplantation . somatostatin can be helpful after liver transplantation in some well-defined indications . in uncontrolled digestive haemorrhage , a short course of somatostatin therapy can be of great help in controlling the acute bleeding and to avoid emergency laparotomy . somatostatin could also be helpful in bilio-pancreato-intestinal fistula , but in this case its advantage over elective surgical treatment remains to be confirmed . 
local failure and related complications after definitive treatment of carcinoma of the prostate by irradiation or surgery . the authors review their institution 's experience with the failure of definitive treatment to achieve local tumor control and with the distant dissemination and local morbidity associated with such failure . the causes of local failure are various : incomplete resection , implantation of spilled cells , and , possibly , selective implantation of circulating tumor cells in traumatized tissues after surgery and totally or partially resistant cells , new tumors , or radiologic misses after radiation . treatment of local failure may be prophylactic or therapeutic and differs depending on the stage of the disease . failure to control the tumor locally in the presence of distant metastases does not alter the length of survival , but it can profoundly affect the quality of survival . 
current management of varicoceles . in spite of all that has been written about the varicocele , it is still not clear who will benefit from occlusion of the spermatic vein or why improvement in semen takes place in some patients but not in others . because fertility is usually assessed in the framework of a couple who are trying to establish a pregnancy , it is important to evaluate both partners before making any recommendations regarding therapy . if the man is found to have a varicocele and semen analyses that indicate deficits in either the quantity or quality of the sperm , surgical ligation or transvenous occlusion should be considered as one appropriate form of therapy . varicocele ligation and embolotherapy both can be performed as an outpatient procedure with minimal morbidity and equal effectiveness regarding pregnancy outcome . the cost , if the procedures are done in an outpatient facility , should be approximately equal . the obvious benefits of the percutaneous technique are a slightly lower recurrence rate and a more rapid return to full physical activity . the surgical procedure described by marmar and associates appears to have a similar rate of recurrence and short postoperative period of recovery . greater experience by more urologists using this technique needs to be gained to compare it adequately with the other methods described . varicocele ligation by the inguinal or retroperitoneal routes is familiar to most urologists and does not require the operating microscope or other special instruments . with greater understanding of the venous anatomy and with careful dissection , the persistence and recurrence rate can be acceptably low and the postoperative recovery relatively rapid and smooth . 
allopurinol and thiazide effects on new urinary stone formed after discontinued therapy in patients with urinary stones . we treated 87 patients with calcium-containing urinary stones with either allopurinol alone ( 44 patients ) or in combination with thiazide ( 43 patients ) and studied new stone formation before , during , and after the discontinuation of the drug therapy . the number of stones formed were 1.18 , 0.24 , and 0.13 before , during , and after discontinuation of the drug therapy , respectively , in the patients treated with allopurinol alone and 1.32 , 0.20 , and 0.09 in those treated in combination with thiazide . no differences were observed in these values and the duration of each observation period between the two groups . decreases in the incidence of stone formation even after interruption of drug therapy suggested that recurrence-preventive effects observed following administration of these drugs include the effects of medical guidance . however , allopurinol therapy was effective in preventing recurrence in patients with hyperuricosuria . 
management of penile gunshot wounds . the management of 10 cases of penile gunshot wounds treated at henry ford hospital from 1982 to 1986 is reviewed . all patients were assaulted by low velocity weapons ( handguns ) . eight patients had associated injuries , predominantly to the genital region ( thigh , pubis , and scrotum ) . there were 5 urethral injuries ; 4 were treated with primary repair , the remaining patient underwent delayed repair , complicated by severe urethral strictures requiring reoperation . blood at the urethral meatus was suggestive of urethral injury but microscopic hematuria was not . five penile injuries did not involve the urethra and were treated by debridement and primary wound closure with no immediate or delayed complications . in dealing with these injuries we recommend a high index of suspicion for urethral and regional organ injury and primary urethral closure if at all possible . 
sex reversal syndrome ( xx male ) . men who appear normal and live a normal life , may have a 46 , xx karyotype and present with the typical features of infertility and end organ ( testicular ) failure . they are azoospermic and their small testicles show specific patterns on light and electron microscopy . recent advances in genetics ( 1 ) favor the " x-y interchange " theory to explain this phenomenon ; ( 2 ) hypothesize about the roles of the h-y antigen and testis determining factor ( tdf ) in determining " maleness " ; and ( 3 ) allow mapping of the relative positions of h-y and tdf loci on the y chromosome . 
renal abscess in children . three cases of renal abscesses in children are described to illustrate the variable presenting features . an additional 23 pediatric cases , reported over the past ten years , were reviewed for clinical features and therapy . fever , loin pain , and leukocytosis were common presenting features , but less than half of all abscesses were associated with either an abnormal urinalysis or a positive urine culture . the presenting features were sometimes confused with appendicitis , peritonitis , or a wilms tumor . an organism was identified in 17 cases -- escherichia coli in 9 children and staphylococcus aureus in 8 children . the majority of e. coli infections occurred in girls and the majority of s. aureus infections occurred in boys . reflux was documented in 5 patients , and 2 children had a possible extrarenal source of infection . antibiotics alone produced a cure in 10 children ( 38 % ) , but 16 children ( 62 % ) required a surgical procedure . 
urothelial grafts in mice . mouse bladder epithelium has been successfully transplanted to the bladders of syngeneic mice and has survived for at least twenty weeks . the fate of the transplanted tissue was followed using a fluorescein label . the recipient bladders were prepared by stripping the urothelium either by a surgical or a chemical method . the possibility of adopting a comparable technique for the treatment of early bladder cancer in man is discussed . 
acute aluminum toxicity after continuous intravesical alum irrigation for hemorrhagic cystitis . an encephalopathy and cardiomyopathy developed in a seventeen-year-old girl with chemotherapy-induced renal failure while receiving an intravesical aluminum infusion for hemorrhagic cystitis . premortem serum and postmortem tissue aluminum levels were markedly elevated . it is likely that her inability to excrete absorbed aluminum contributed to her death . aluminum infusions should be used with caution in patients with renal failure . 
single polypoid cystitis cystica and glandularis presenting as benign bladder tumor . a case report of a ten-year-old boy with a benign polypoid bladder tumor is presented . the rarity of benign or malignant bladder tumors in children is reviewed , as well as the possible etiology of this unique lesion . 
neurologic complications of cardiac transplantation . between 1984 and 1989 , orthotopic cardiac transplantations were done in 90 patients from 10 to 65 years of age for end-stage , refractory congestive cardiomyopathy . two patients had had ischemic strokes 5 months and 18 years , respectively , before transplantation . six patients ( 7 % ) suffered acute neurologic events perioperatively . three patients suffered cerebral infarctions . in 1 case this occurred 10 days before transplantation -- probably as a result of systemic hypoperfusion -- with the placement of ventricular assist devices . two others suffered infarctions 5 and 21 days , respectively , after transplantation , each of probable embolic origin . two patients had an acute intracerebral hemorrhage 21 and 36 days , respectively , after transplantation ; both were located within the basal ganglia and subcortical regions . both patients had moderate to severe hypertension , and in 1 , renal failure and a coagulopathy developed before hemorrhage . tremor , seizures , and an altered level of consciousness developed in 1 patient as an apparent toxic reaction to cyclosporine treatment . only 1 patient died as a result of the neurologic complication -- of an acute intracerebral hemorrhage . three patients recovered fully , 2 partially . only the case of drug toxicity could be directly attributed to the transplantation procedure itself . we conclude that the risk of an acute neurologic insult with orthotopic cardiac transplantation is low but may result from drug toxicity , cerebral ischemia , or hemorrhagic mechanisms . 
tryptophan-induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome eight patients who became ill while taking tryptophan had myalgia , fatigue , rash , fever , edema , alopecia , arthralgias , diminished joint motion , skin tightening , muscle cramping , and distal paresthesias . three had shortness of breath , and one had pulmonary hypertension . laboratory abnormalities included peripheral eosinophilia , leukocytosis , thrombocytosis , raised erythrocyte sedimentation rate , and elevated serum levels of aldolase , lactate dehydrogenase , and liver enzymes . of 4 chest radiographs , 3 were abnormal . of 5 skin and muscle biopsies , 4 showed sclerosis or mixed inflammatory cell infiltration of the dermis , subcutis , and fascia . eosinophils were often present , but vasculitis was absent . muscle inflammation was minimal . we conclude that the " eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome " is related to the ingestion of tryptophan and that abnormalities in the secretion of lymphokines may be important in its pathogenesis . 
pleuropulmonary manifestations of hepatic amebiasis pleuropulmonary manifestations of hepatic amebiasis occurred in 30 patients ; 18 ( 60 % ) presented with at least 1 pulmonary complaint and 10 ( 33 % ) had multiple pulmonary symptoms . in 14 patients ( 47 % ) , abnormalities were found on examination of the chest . in 16 chest roentgenograms ( 53 % ) , there was at least 1 abnormality : right-sided pleural effusion ( 9 patients ) and elevated right hemidiaphragm ( 8 patients ) were the most common . all patients were treated with metronidazole ( flagyl ) and had resolution of the amebic liver abscess and pulmonary disease . pleuropulmonary disease is a common complication of amebic liver abscess . the clinical presentation and chest roentgenograms are virtually diagnostic and obviate the need for invasive procedures to confirm the diagnosis . pleuropulmonary disease resolves with amebicidal treatment of the hepatic abscess . 
desmopressin for diabetes insipidus , hemostatic disorders and enuresis . arginine vasopressin preparations have been used in the treatment of diabetes insipidus for many years . compared with older antidiuretic agents , the synthetic analog desmopressin is more potent , longer acting and easier to use . it is available for intravenous , subcutaneous and intranasal administration . desmopressin may be useful in the treatment of hemostatic disorders such as von willebrand 's disease and hemophilia a. it has also been used for nocturnal enuresis . the vasopressor effects of arginine vasopressin preparations have been exploited for use as a temporizing measure in controlling acute gastrointestinal bleeding . side effects such as hyponatremia and water intoxication are uncommon when these drugs are used with proper precautions . 
assay of serum cardiac myosin heavy chain fragments in patients with acute myocardial infarction : determination of infarct size and long-term follow-up . to evaluate the correlation between myosin heavy chain release and the necrosis mass , serum levels of myosin heavy chain fragments were determined serially in 55 patients with acute myocardial infarction . eight of these patients were successfully treated with thrombolytic agents : the others were not treated . the same myosin titration was applied to the sera of 25 dogs with an experimental myocardial infarction . six of the dogs were successfully treated with thrombolytic agents . the time courses of the myosin concentrations are typical and monophasic for all patients with a noncomplex myocardial infarction . the values for the kinetic parameters of myosin release are comparable to those previously reported . we have now determined that cumulative myosin release significantly correlates with cumulative creatine kinase ( ck ) , ck-mb , and lactate dehydrogenase release , as well as with thallium-201 distribution , as determined for different patient groups . thrombolytic treatment does not seem to qualitatively upset myosin kinetics . the results obtained in dogs with or without thrombolysis conclusively indicate that myosin release is a quantitative index of the necrosis mass . from a practical point of view , a few serial determinations of serum levels of myosin heavy chains are enough to estimate the necrosed mass in patients with acute myocardial infarction . more generally , serum myosin titration could be useful in detecting any cardiac disturbance involving myocardial injury resulting in membrane leakage of cardiac cells . 
reduction in infarct size by the phospholipase inhibitor quinacrine in dogs with coronary artery occlusion . it has been suggested that activation of tissue phospholipases may contribute to the development of ischemic cell injury . in the present study we sought to assess whether administration of the phospholipase inhibitor quinacrine would reduce the extent of myocardial necrosis after coronary artery occlusion . in open-chest , anesthetized dogs the left anterior descending coronary artery was ligated , and technetium-99-labeled albumin microspheres were injected into the left atrium to measure the area at risk . the animals were then randomly divided into a control group ( n = 8 ) and a group receiving quinacrine ( 5 mg/kg intravenous bolus followed by a 40 micrograms/kg/min infusion for 6 hours ; n = 9 ) . the animals were killed 6 hours after occlusion , and the infarcted area was delineated by triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining . the extent of the risk region was similar in the two groups ( 32.3 + / - 2.1 % of the left ventricle in control dogs and 34.2 + / - 3.4 % in quinacrine-treated dogs ) . infarct size was 86.4 + / - 8.8 % of the risk region in control animals , whereas in treated dogs it averaged 62.3 + / - 6.4 % of the risk region ( p = 0.05 ) . no differences were found in heart rate , arterial pressure , and rate-pressure product between the two groups . thus administration of the phospholipase inhibitor quinacrine reduced the extent of myocardial necrosis in a model of fixed coronary artery occlusion . preservation of membrane phospholipids , reduced formation of lipoxygenase metabolites , or both may mediate this phenomenon . 
dmpo and reperfusion injury : arrhythmia , heart function , electron spin resonance , and nuclear magnetic resonance studies in isolated working guinea pig hearts . with the use of isolated working guinea pig hearts with normothermic global ischemia , it was shown that 5,5-dimethyl-pirroline-n-oxide ( dmpo ) , an organic spin trap agent designed specifically to form stable adducts with oxygen free radicals in electron spin resonance studies , can dramatically reduce the vulnerability of the heart to reperfusion-induced arrhythmias . studied in concentrations ranging from 10 to 500 mumol/l , dmpo exerted a dose-dependent protective effect . thus , after 30 minutes of global ischemia , the incidence of ventricular fibrillation ( total ) and tachycardia was reduced from control values of 100 % and 100 % to 100 % and 100 % , 91 % and 100 % , 25 % ( p less than 0.001 ) and 50 % ( p less than 0.05 ) , and 25 % ( p less than 0.001 ) and 41 % ( p less than 0.05 ) , respectively , with dmpo concentrations of 10 , 30 , 100 , and 500 mumol/l . maximum signals of dmpo-oh adduct , with the use of electron spin resonance studies , were observed after 3 minutes of reperfusion in fibrillated hearts but were not detected in nonfibrillated hearts . results of nuclear magnetic resonance studies of myocardial adenosine triphosphate , creatine phosphate , ph , and inorganic phosphate showed that these parameters were not significantly changed by treatment with dmpo , and consequently myocardial heart function was not improved , although there was a dissociation between myocardial adenosine triphosphate content and left ventricular developed pressure during reperfusion . the data presented here indicate that oxygen free radicals play an important role in the development of reperfusion-induced arrhythmias but trapping these cytotoxic free radicals does not improve the recovery of postischemic heart function and high-energy phosphate contents in isolated working guinea pig hearts . 
similar time course of st depression during and after exercise in patients with coronary artery disease and syndrome x. to assess whether the time course of st segment depression differs in patients with coronary artery disease and patients with angina and normal coronary arteries , the exercise tests of 54 patients with documented coronary artery disease and 25 patients with syndrome x ( angina , positive exercise test , no evidence of coronary artery spasm , and normal coronary arteries ) were compared . all tests were performed with therapy withheld , using the modified bruce protocol . in each test , time , heart rate and blood pressure were measured at the onset and at 1 mm of st segment depression , and at peak exercise . recovery ( return of the st segment to baseline + / - 0.2 mm ) time was also assessed . peak st segment depression was similar in coronary artery disease and syndrome x patients ( 1.5 + / - 0.3 versus 1.6 + / - 0.4 mm ) . in 42 coronary artery disease patients , st segment depression developed early ( less than or equal to 6 minutes ) during exercise ; this was associated with a short recovery ( less than or equal to 3 minutes ) in 17 ( 40 % ) and with a long recovery ( greater than 3 minutes ) in 25 ( 60 % ) patients . in 17 patients with syndrome x , st segment depression developed early ; it was associated with a short recovery in six ( 35 % ) and with a long recovery in 11 ( 65 % ) patients . late ( greater than 6 minutes ) onset of st segment depression was observed in 12 coronary artery disease patients ; of these , eight ( 67 % ) had a short recovery and 4 ( 33 % ) had a long recovery . late onset of st segment depression occurred in eight patients with syndrome x ; six ( 75 % ) had a short recovery and two ( 25 % ) had a long recovery . 
lesions in side branches of arteries having undergone percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty : a histopathologic study . percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) may cause occlusion in side branches . no histologic studies , however , have been made on side branches of the arteries in which ptca has been performed . a histologic study was therefore made to explain the effect of ptca on side branches . histologic specimens were prepared by serial step sectioning from 15 side branches of 10 autopsied cases that had undergone ptca . the results of examination by light microscope were as follows : ( 1 ) stenoses due to ptca were seen in seven branches ( 46.7 % ) . ( 2 ) the stenoses were classified into three types : ( a ) stenosis due to blocking of the orifice of a side branch by the disrupted portion of the intima of the main artery ( one branch ) ; ( b ) stenosis due to medial dissection of the main artery or further dissection occurring even in the side branches ( three branches ) ; and ( c ) stenosis due to fragmentation of the internal elastic lamina of the main artery accompanied by proliferation of smooth muscle cells even in the side branch ( three branches ) . it is now clear that stenosis is caused in side branches long after ptca . extra care is required when major side branches exist in the portion where this procedure is to be performed . 
results of repeat percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty for pulmonary valvar restenosis . follow-up cardiac catheterization studies were used to evaluate 105 patients who had undergone percutaneous balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty . fifteen of those patients who had peak systolic pulmonary valve gradients greater than = 40 mm hg at follow-up underwent repeat balloon valvuloplasty . for the initial balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty , the mean ratio of the balloon diameter to pulmonary valve annulus diameter was 0.98 + / - 0.2 ; at repeat valvuloplasty the mean was 1.19 + / - 0.12 . the immediate post-repeat balloon valvuloplasty results showed a reduction in the peak systolic gradient from a mean of 70.2 + / - 17.8 to 29.1 + / - 19.0 mm hg ( p less than 0.001 ) . this reduction in the gradient was maintained at a mean of 14.3 + / - 5.0 mm hg in 8 of the 10 patients who underwent further follow-up studies . we conclude that successful repeat balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty with the use of larger sized balloons is feasible in patients who have restenosis after the initial percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty -- including partial but not complete dysplasia of the pulmonary valve . 
noninvasive discrimination of right atrial ectopic tachycardia from sinus tachycardia in " dilated cardiomyopathy " . right atrial ectopic tachycardia ( raet ) with secondary cardiac dysfunction can be difficult to differentiate from primary dilated cardiomyopathy ( cmp ) with sinus tachycardia . in an attempt to separate raet from cmp by noninvasive testing , routine surface electrocardiograms ( eggs ) , 24-hour ambulatory ecgs ( holter monitors ) , and echocardiograms of patients with raet ( n = 34 ) and cmp ( n = 33 ) were reviewed . raet atrial rates were significantly faster than cmp rates on the resting ecg and on holter monitoring ; 12 of 33 patients with raet had resting ecg rates greater than 150 % of predicted normal values for age but none of 32 patients with cmps had resting ecg rates in this range . mean p wave axis in the horizontal plane was more posterior in patients with raet and was less than 0 degrees ( negative in lead v2 ) in 8 of 29 patients with raet but in 1 of 33 patients with cmp . second-degree atrioventricular ( av ) block was observed in 12 of 33 patients with raet but in none of 33 with cmp . shortening fraction less than 10 % was found in 13 of 33 individuals with cmp but in only 1 of 27 with raet . we conclude that noninvasive studies can help identify raet among patients with poor functioning hearts and right atrial tachycardia . 
frequency of low-grade residual coronary stenosis after thrombolysis during acute myocardial infarction . the clinical , angiographic and demographic characteristics of 42 patients with low-grade ( less than 50 % ) residual stenosis at the infarct lesion after thrombolysis for acute myocardial infarction ( mi ) were assessed . the study group ( group i ) represented 21 % of 198 consecutive patients receiving thrombolytic therapy over a 59-month period . data on the 156 remaining patients were pooled for comparison ( group ii ) . group i patients were predominantly men ( 86 % ) who were cigarette smokers ( 81 % ) . group ii patients were predominantly men ( 75 % , p greater than 0.10 ) but were significantly older ( 52 + / - 12 vs 56 + / - 10 years , p = 0.02 ) . prior acute mi or angina was unusual in group i. sixty percent had no significant ( greater than 50 % ) residual coronary artery disease while 25 % had residual single artery disease . average significant ( greater than 50 % diameter stenosis ) residual vessel disease was 0.6 + / - 1.0 for group i and 1.9 + / - 0.9 for group ii ( p less than 0.001 ) . in group i , average residual infarct lesion diameter stenosis was 36 + / - 7 % in the right anterior oblique and 34 + / - 8 % in the left anterior oblique views . thirty-nine group i patients were discharged with medical therapy and 100 % follow-up was obtained over a mean interval of 18 + / - 17 months . fifteen patients experienced chest pain after acute mi accounting for 17 discrete events . fifty-nine percent of group i had a benign course on follow-up . eight events were classified as unstable angina , 4 as acute mi and 5 as atypical angina . documented coronary vasospasm occurred in 3 . 
analysis of programmed stimulation methods in the evaluation of ventricular arrhythmias in patients 20 years old and younger . the purpose of this study was to systematically evaluate programmed ventricular stimulation in patients less than 21 years of age undergoing electrophysiologic testing . a standardized protocol was applied in 55 consecutive patients ( mean age 14 years ) with the following clinical presentations : sustained ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) ( n = 17 ) ; ventricular fibrillation ( vf ) ( n = 7 ) ; syncope with heart disease ( n = 10 ) ; nonsustained vt ( n = 6 ) ; and syncope with an ostensibly normal heart ( n = 15 ) . the stimulation protocol consisted of 1 and 2 ventricular extrastimuli during sinus rhythm , followed by 1 to 4 ( s2 , s3 , s4 , s5 ) extrastimuli during pacing at 2 ventricular sites . of the 17 patients with sustained vt , 12 had induction of the arrhythmia ( sensitivity = 71 % ) . overall , 18 of 55 patients had inducible sustained vt , with this response significantly enhanced by use of s4 or s5 protocols ( p = 0.02 ) . although no syncope patients with an ostensibly normal heart had inducible sustained vt , 7 had polymorphic nonsustained vt in response to ventricular stimulation . the mean number of extra-stimuli preceding the induction of nonsustained or sustained vt or vf did not differ . the induction of vf in 5 cases during this study was preceded in each case by extrastimuli intervals less than or equal to 190 ms. thus , data indicate that aggressive stimulation protocols appear to be required for induction of sustained vt in most young patients , nonsustained polymorphic vt as a response to aggressive programmed stimulation is of uncertain significance , and that coupling intervals less than or equal to 190 ms may correlate with the induction of vf . 
the nuclear pacemaker : is renewed interest warranted ? from 1973 through 1987 , 155 radioisotope-powered " nuclear " pacemakers were implanted in 132 patients at the newark beth israel medical center . the longevity of the first 15 devices , all of which were fixed-rate ( voo ) pacemakers , was significantly better than that of 15 lithium-chemistry demand ( vvi ) pacemakers used as control devices ( p = 0.0002 ) . of the entire cohort of 155 nuclear pacemakers , 136 were vvi devices and 19 were voo units . the patients with voo pacemakers needed reoperations more often than did those with vvi pacemakers , chiefly for mode change ( p less than 0.001 ) . power-source failure was observed in only 1 case , but 47 nuclear pacemakers were removed for other reasons , including component malfunction ( 15 units ) , mode change ( 12 units ) , high pacing thresholds ( 8 units ) and lead or connector problems ( 5 units ) . the actuarial survival at 15 years was 99 % for power sources and 82 % for the entire pacing systems ( pulse generators plus leads ) . the frequency of malignancy was similar to that of the population at large and primary tumor sites were randomly distributed . deaths most commonly were due to cardiac causes ( 68 % ) . thus , nuclear pacemakers are safe and reliable and their greater initial cost appears to be offset by their longevity and the resulting decrease in the frequency of reoperations . it is reasonable to suggest that further use be made of long-lasting nuclear power sources for modern pacemakers and other implantable rhythm-management devices . 
effects of metoprolol on rest and exercise cardiac function and plasma catecholamines in chronic congestive heart failure secondary to ischemic or idiopathic cardiomyopathy . to define the effects of 2 months of metoprolol therapy on cardiac function , aerobic performance and sympathetic nervous system activity , metoprolol ( 75 to 100 mg/day ) was administered to 10 patients with chronic congestive heart failure ( chf ) . metoprolol was discontinued in 2 patients because of worsening chf . in the remaining 8 patients , peak oxygen uptake increased significantly ( 14.8 + / - 3.0 to 16.1 + / - 2.5 ml/kg/min , p less than 0.05 ) as did the oxygen pulse ( 9.0 + / - 2.2 to 12.6 + / - 1.8 ml/beat , p less than 0.02 ) . resting heart rate ( 87 + / - 18 to 62 + / - 9 beats/min , p less than 0.05 ) and peak exercise heart rate ( 133 + / - 13 to 105 + / - 30 beats/min , p less than 0.02 ) were both reduced . mean resting ejection fraction increased from 0.15 + / - 0.06 to 0.25 + / - 0.11 and peak exercise ejection fraction also tended to increase ( 0.19 + / - 0.11 to 0.28 + / - 0.15 , difference not significant ) . both resting plasma norepinephrine ( 613 + / - 706 to 303 + / - 142 pg/ml , p less than 0.05 ) and epinephrine ( 71 + / - 50 to 40 + / - 21 pg/ml , p less than 0.05 ) were reduced . circulating lymphocyte beta-adrenergic receptor number was unchanged ( 1,334 + / - 292 to 1,344 + / - 456 receptors/cell , difference not significant ) . it is concluded that metoprolol therapy is associated with improvements in rest and exercise ventricular performance and maximal aerobic capacity . these improvements are associated with a decline in resting sympathetic nervous system activity . 
role of beta-adrenergic blockers after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) can not currently be prevented . different medical regimens have been largely unsuccessful . experimental studies suggest roles for beta-adrenergic blockers and calcium antagonists . controlled clinical studies have failed to show any decrease in restenosis rate for calcium antagonists . corresponding studies for beta blockers are lacking . this study evaluates 541 consecutive ptca procedures , 455 ( 86 % ) in patients treated with beta blockers after ptca ( 76 % metoprolol , 14 % atenolol , 4 % sotalol , 6 % others ) and 86 ( 14 % ) in patients without beta blockers . angiographic success was achieved in 483 of 620 lesions ( 78 % ) , and was not significantly different with or without beta blockers ( 79 vs 73 % , p greater than 0.05 ) . the procedure success rate and the complication rates ( myocardial infarction , emergency coronary artery bypass grafting , death ) did not differ with or without beta blockers ( p greater than 0.05 ) . follow-up angiograms for 426 of the 483 successfully dilated lesions ( 88 % ) revealed that a total of 155 stenoses had recurred ( 36 % ) . the restenosis rate was not significantly different with ( 368 ) or without ( 58 ) beta blockers ( 36 vs 38 % , p greater than 0.05 ) . for beta blockers with calcium antagonists ( 84 % nifedipine , 13 % diltiazem , 2 % verapamil , 1 % others ) , the restenosis rate was 97 of 250 ( 39 % ) vs 36 of 118 ( 31 % ) ( p greater than 0.05 ) . this retrospective study indicates that treatment with beta-adrenergic blockers after ptca , alone or in combination with calcium antagonists , does not influence either the success rate or the restenosis rate and can be continued if indicated from an antiischemic viewpoint . 
patient-related variables and restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty -- a report from the m-heart group . as part of a randomized prospective study designed to investigate the restenosis process after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) , the relation between patient-related variables and restenosis rate was examined . a total of 722 patients had successful ptca . angiographic follow-up was scheduled for 6 + / - 2 months after the procedure and achieved in 510 patients ( 71 % ) , yielding 598 lesions for analysis . the overall restenosis rate was 40 % . the rate was higher in patients undergoing early restudy for a clinical event than in those undergoing routinely scheduled follow-up restudy ( 71 vs 22 % , p less than 0.0001 ) . age , sex , cigarette smoking history , diabetes mellitus and history of previous myocardial infarction were not associated with restenosis rate . angina duration and severity before ptca were also unrelated to restenosis rate . in summary , these variables , many of which have been previously implicated in restenosis , were not found to be predictors of restenosis . the decision to perform ptca in individual patients should not be negatively influenced by the presence of these factors . 
results of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of high-risk angulated stenoses . percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) of angulated stenoses has been found in studies using older ptca equipment to be associated with a heightened risk of procedure-related major ischemic events . to better understand the factors associated with procedural risk and to identify means of lessening that risk , 100 patients , treated sequentially from 1986 to 1989 , who underwent ptca of stenoses located at greater than or equal to 45 degrees bends , were characterized for 27 clinical , anatomic and procedural variables . clinical outcome of angioplasty was related to these variables . in addition , results from 344 consecutive contemporary patients undergoing ptca of nonangulated lesions were compared to those of the study group . procedural success was achieved in only 70 % of patients with angulated stenoses , compared with 306 of 344 ( 89 % ) nonangulated stenoses , and major ischemic complications ( death , bypass surgery or myocardial infarction ) occurred in 13 % of patients with angulated stenoses compared with 12 of 344 ( 3.5 % ) with nonangulated stenoses ( both p less than 0.001 ) . the presence of associated thrombus , stenosis length greater than 10 mm or age greater than or equal to 65 years led to an even higher risk of major complications ( 9 of 44 = 20.5 % ) , whereas highly experienced angioplasty operators and the use of polyethylene terephthalate balloons appeared to decrease risk and increase the likelihood of success . ptca of such stenoses should be undertaken only cautiously and in carefully selected patients . 
quantitative angiographic comparison of the immediate success of coronary angioplasty , coronary atherectomy and endoluminal stenting . coronary atherectomy and coronary stenting effectively reduce the severity of coronary artery stenoses , but direct comparisons of these interventions with conventional balloon angioplasty have not been performed . to compare the immediate efficacy of these 3 interventions , the angiographic morphology and the severity of the residual coronary stenosis were quantitatively evaluated in 18 patients undergoing coronary atherectomy and in 21 patients treated by endoluminal coronary stenting . each of these groups of patients was compared with a matched group of coronary angioplasty patients selected from a large , computerized data-base . the variables matched included patient age and sex , lesions site and severity , and lesion complexity . both coronary atherectomy and coronary stenting more effectively reduced the severity of the coronary stenosis when compared with balloon angioplasty . the luminal diameter stenosis was reduced from 69 + / - 10 to 22 + / - 20 % in the atherectomy group compared with a reduction from 74 + / - 11 to 44 + / - 14 % in the matched coronary angioplasty population ( p = 0.008 ) . similarly , the luminal diameter stenosis was reduced from 77 + / - 11 to 26 + / - 12 % in the stented group compared with a reduction from 81 + / - 10 to 42 + / - 14 % in the matched coronary angioplasty group ( p = 0.014 ) . in addition , moderate or severe coronary dissections were noted more frequently in the coronary angioplasty groups than in their respective atherectomy and stent groups ( 0 vs 33 % , p = 0.008 , and 5 vs 19 % , p = 0.15 , respectively ) . 
role of alcohol in recurrences of atrial fibrillation in persons less than 65 years of age . the role of alcohol in recurrences of atrial fibrillation ( af ) was assessed in a consecutive series of 98 patients ( 75 men ) aged less than 65 years . in addition to etiologic assessment using clinical and laboratory methods and echocardiography , the patients ' drinking habits were evaluated by recording the amount of alcohol used during the week preceding af , by responses to the cage ( cut , annoying , guilt , eye ; see below ) questionnaire ( a screening test for alcohol abuse ) and by selected laboratory tests . two groups of control subjects were studied : 98 sex - and age-matched patients admitted to the emergency ward for acute illnesses , and 50 subjects selected randomly from the local out-of-hospital population . the mean alcohol consumption among men during the study week was 186 g ( median 45 g ; range 0 to 2,100 g ) among patients , whereas among male hospital and population control subjects it was 86 g ( 30 g ; 0 to 1,050 g ) and 94 g ( 35 g ; 0 to 630 g ) , respectively . when the weekly alcohol consumption was analyzed in 3 categories ( 0 ; 1 to 210 g ; greater than 210 g ) , there was a significant difference between af cases and hospital control patients ( p = 0.03 ) , but not between af cases and population control subjects . multivariate analysis of data of af cases and population control subjects showed that alcohol intake and a positive response to 1 or more of the cage questions were independently related to af in men . other independent risk factors were the presence of heart disease , low serum potassium and lack of sleep or experience of excess psychologic stress , or both . 
changes in circulating norepinephrine with hemofiltration in advanced congestive heart failure . in congestive heart failure ( chf ) , hemofiltration is associated with an obvious decrease in circulating norepinephrine . this method was used for investigating the mechanisms whereby plasma norepinephrine is increased in chronic chf . in 23 cases of advanced chf , hemofiltration ( 2,983 + / - 1,228 ml ) lowered plasma norepinephrine by 515 + / - 444 pg/ml . this effect was prompt , persisted or became greater in the next 24 hours . it was not associated with significant changes in cardiac output , aortic pressure or systemic vascular resistance . it did not appear to depend on variations in parameters related to the sympathetic activity , such as plasma renin , right atrial , wedge pulmonary artery and renal perfusion pressures , and was independent of duration and amount of hemofiltration . these observations did not support the concept that the norepinephrine decrease was the main consequence of a neural sympathetic inhibition . hemofiltration increased diuresis by 606 + / - 415 ml ; changes were prompt and correlated inversely ( r = -0.7 ; p less than 0.01 ) with those in plasma norepinephrine . the same unknown mechanism of the increased urinary output might potentiate the norepinephrine removal from the blood by the kidney , or hemofiltration and the augmented diuresis might result in a regression of congestion of lungs and kidneys , leading to an improved extraction of norepinephrine . in chf , a relation may exist between fluid retention and norepinephrine and in advanced stages , circulating norepinephrine , although strikingly increased , is devoid of important cardiovascular effects . at these stages , plasma norepinephrine is probably unreliable as an index of the sympathetic neural activity . 
aortic calcified plaques and cardiovascular disease ( the framingham study ) . the relation between the presence of calcified plaques in the thoracic aorta , as detected on chest x-rays , and the development of cardiovascular disease is examined during 12 years of follow-up of the framingham cohort ( n = 5,209 ) . the prevalence of aortic calcified plaques approximately doubled with each decade of age , with only a trivial male predominance . its presence was associated with a twofold increase in risk of cardiovascular death in men and women younger than age 65 , even after other risk factors were taken into account . similar increases in risk were found for coronary artery disease , stroke and intermittent claudication among middle-aged women . in middle-aged men these risks were less marked . the predictive value of aortic calcified plaques generally diminished with age . risk of sudden coronary death in men with calcified plaques in the thoracic aorta ranged from a sevenfold increase at age 35 to no excess risk at age 70 years . these results support the view that atherosclerosis is a generalized process . the finding of aortic calcified plaques in a relatively young subject on a routine chest x-ray should be regarded as a sign for potential development of clinically manifest atherosclerotic disease in the cardiac , cerebral and peripheral arterial circulation . 
persistence of arrhythmia exercise response in healthy young men . this study assesses the persistence of arrhythmia at rest or during exercise tests , or both , after a mean follow-up period of 6.7 years in 76 young men ( mean age 21.5 years ) without evidence of organic heart disease . the exercise test was performed using a near-maximal protocol based on progressively increasing intermittent work loads , each of 5 minutes ' duration . the initial work load was 50 w. the electrocardiogram was continuously registered throughout all stages of the examination . arrhythmia was defined as the occurrence of greater than or equal to 1 supraventricular or 1 ventricular premature beat at any stage of the examination . at the follow-up examination , the rate of persistence of arrhythmia did not differ significantly among the subgroups , irrespective of follow-up interval , type of arrhythmia , or arrhythmia patterns of response to exercise . two-dimensional echocardiography did not show any structural abnormalities and doppler examination did not demonstrate significant abnormal flow patterns . our data show that almost all patients continued to present arrhythmia after the follow-up period , without any evidence of development of organic heart disease . moreover , the arrhythmia pattern of response to exercise remained constant throughout the years . at this time , arrhythmia without underlying heart disease seems to be of a benign natural course in these young men . 
comparison of frequency of late potentials in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and ischemic cardiomyopathy with advanced congestive heart failure and their usefulness in predicting sudden death . signal-averaged electrocardiograms were obtained in 62 consecutive patients with advanced congestive heart failure ( chf ) undergoing evaluation for possible heart transplantation to determine if late potentials : ( 1 ) provide unique information compared to assessment of ventricular ectopic activity on ambulatory electrocardiogram , and ( 2 ) identify a subgroup of chf patients with higher sudden death risk . patients with a history of cardiac arrest or sustained ventricular tachycardia were excluded . chf was due to old myocardial infarction in 40 patients and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy in 22 patients . late potentials were present in 16 of 40 ( 40 % ) patients with old infarction but in only 3 of 22 ( 14 % ) patients with nonischemic chf ( p = 0.03 ) . twenty-four-hour ambulatory electrocardiograms were obtained in 34 patients ( 55 % ) . total ventricular ectopic activity and repetitive forms of ectopy were similar in patients with and without late potentials . nine patients died suddenly , 9 had nonsudden death , 15 underwent heart transplantation and 29 were alive and well after a mean follow-up of 218 + / - 154 days . at 1 year , the actuarial risk of death was 37 % and of sudden death was 20 % . sudden death risk was 12 % in patients with late potentials versus 21 % in those without ( p = 0.73 ) . thus , the incidence of the arrhythmia substrate producing late potentials depends on the chf etiology . the signal-averaged electrocardiogram and ambulatory electrocardiogram provide independent information for possible risk assessment in chf . however , late potentials are poor predictors of sudden death risk when chf is advanced , possibly due to the heterogeneity of causes of sudden death -- ventricular tachycardia being only 1 of many possible mechanisms . 
arterial protection : a neglected but crucial therapeutic goal . hypertension is accompanied by 2 major types of arterial pathologic conditions : smooth muscle hypertrophy of arteriolar resistance vessels and atherosclerosis , primarily involving the larger arteries . smooth muscle hypertrophy may develop either as a secondary defense against elevated intravascular pressure or as a primary defect responsible for the increased pressure . insulin and a number of other trophic stimuli may play a pathogenetic role in vascular hypertrophy . reducing blood pressure and trophic stimuli may cause hypertrophy to be reversed . because atherosclerosis may be markedly accelerated by hypertension , especially in the presence of concomitant risk factors , such as hypercholesterolemia , cigarette smoking and diabetes mellitus , antihypertensive treatment may attenuate or even reverse the extent of atherosclerosis , but only when the causative factors are also corrected . some commonly used antihypertensive agents , e.g. , diuretics and beta blockers without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity , often aggravate hypercholesterolemia and glucose intolerance , thereby diminishing their potential protective value . other types of drug therapy , such as alpha blockers , beta blockers with intrinsic sympathomimetic activity or other vasodilator activity , angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and calcium entry blockers that may not induce biochemical changes , should provide better control of multiple risks and thereby better protection against atherosclerosis . with a better understanding of how hypertension induces arterial damage , clinicians will be able to provide more appropriate treatment and , it is hoped , alleviate such damage . 
advantages of beta blockers versus antiarrhythmic agents and calcium antagonists in secondary prevention after myocardial infarction . patients who have sustained greater than or equal to 1 myocardial infarcts are at high risk for sudden death or reinfarction ; the risk is highest for those with lowest ventricular ejection fraction , continuing myocardial ischemia and asymptomatic high-density and complex premature ventricular contractions . at present , beta blockers when given prophylactically are the only agents that reduce the incidence of sudden death and reinfarction in survivors of myocardial infarction ( mi ) in the first 2 years . the beneficial effect was shown to correlate with a reduction in heart rate , the effect being absent or deleterious with beta blockers with marked sympathomimetic activity . the effects of beta blockers on ventricular fibrillation appeared to be dissociated from those on premature ventricular contractions . trials with calcium antagonists indicate that these drugs had no effect or increased the mortality rate . the divergent effect of beta blockers and calcium antagonists is unexplained but may be due in part to a lack of bradycardiac effect of calcium antagonists ; there were no differences in effect among different calcium antagonists . data from trials involving class i antiarrhythmic agents indicate that agents acting by depression of cardiac conduction are either devoid of effect or produce a modest increase in mortality . results of the cardiac arrhythmia suppression trial , employing the newer class i agents flecainide and encainide , were used to determine whether the suppression of premature ventricular contractions in the survivors of acute mi reduces mortality . flecainide and encainide suppressed premature ventricular contractions greater than 80 % , but resulted in an increased mortality rate undoubtedly due to a marked proarrhythmic effect . whether these data can be extrapolated to all class i agents is uncertain . preliminary data with class iii antiarrhythmic agents suggest that these agents , especially amiodarone , similarly to beta blockers , have the potential to reduce mortality in survivors of mi . evolving data suggest that in the secondary prevention of morbid events in the survivors of acute mi , the focus must shift away from antiarrhythmic agents that delay conduction and toward beta blockers and antifibrillatory actions resulting from a prolongation of refractoriness . 
global and molecular hemostatic markers in acute myeloid leukemia . patients with acute myeloid leukemia have multiple hemostatic and thrombotic complications , which may or may not result from disseminated intravascular coagulation . previous studies incorporating routine coagulation analyses failed to detect any clinically useful information in most of these patients . in this study , the first comprehensive evaluation of the various aspects of the hemostatic system in a population of patients with acute myeloid leukemia was performed . eighteen patients ( 23-71 years of age ) were studied at either diagnosis or relapse . hemostatic studies were performed at onset and on days 3 , 7 , and 30 after initiation of therapy . the bone marrow blast counts ranged from 8 % to 98 % ; prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time showed only minor prolongations in a few of these patients . however , in all patients measurement of platelet-associated markers revealed elevated platelet factor 4 and thromboxane b2 and normal 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha levels . fibrinolytic markers showed an increase in d-dimer and tissue plasminogen activator and a decrease in alpha 2-antiplasmin levels . plasminogen , plasminogen activator inhibitor , and fibrinogen levels were normal . coagulation markers demonstrated a decrease in protein c and antithrombin iii levels and an elevation of the thrombin-antithrombin complex . the pretreatment values for all hemostatic markers studied were similar to the values obtained on days 3 , 7 , and 30 during treatment . this investigation demonstrated a subclinical activation of the components of the hemostatic system possibly leading to a hypercoagulable state . although only six patients ( 33 % ) experienced hemorrhagic complications , the risk of bleeding and/or thrombosis was strongly evident in all patients . the significance of finding abnormal levels of specific molecular markers of hemostasis will be established in the future application of such markers in clinical evaluations of leukemic patients known to be at risk for coagulation disorders . 
atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and sudden deaths among young adults in wayne county . based on postmortem records at the wayne county medical examiners ' office from 1982 to 1986 , autopsy results indicated that the deaths of 129 persons aged 20-34 resulted from heart disease : 51 of these deaths were attributed to atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease ( ascvd ) , 29 to hypertensive cardiovascular disease , 28 to cardiomyopathy , and 21 to other cardiac causes . the majority of the deaths due to ascvd occurred among men , both black and white , followed by black women , and the incidence increased with age . all of these deaths due to ascvd were sudden and accounted for all deaths due to ischemic heart disease in this age group among wayne county residents . diabetes mellitus , left ventricular hypertrophy , a history of seizures , and the recent ingestion of alcohol were all found to be associated with sudden death from ascvd in this group . obesity did not seem to be a significant factor . these data suggest that ascvd is not rare as a cause of death in young adults and some of the risk factors identified in older subjects also operate in this age group . 
heart weights of white men 20 to 39 years of age . an analysis of 218 autopsy cases . review of autopsy data for 218 white men between 20 and 39 years of age who died of injuries or suddenly and unexpectedly indicated a mean heart weight of 371 g. the mean for those dying of external causes was 364 g whereas the mean for those dying of natural causes was 446 g. a coefficient for heart weight expressed as a percentage of body weight was lower in heavy individuals than lightweight individuals ; it ranged between 0.38 % and 0.55 % , with a mean of 0.48 % . heart weight , including epicardial fat , increased with age and body weight . these data may be useful to those who are called upon to investigate sudden and unexpected deaths . 
sudden unexpected nocturnal death syndrome in the mariana islands . sudden unexpected nocturnal death syndrome ( sunds ) is a distinct clinical entity in previously healthy , young , southeast asian males . it is well known in the philippines and more recently recognized in the u.s. by nonspecific autopsy findings , with no evidence of underlying disease and absence of toxic drug or alcohol levels . in 1973-89 , 14 cases of apparent sunds came to coroner 's autopsy in the commonwealth of the northern marianas ( cnmi ) and guam . all 14 cases , with the exception of one yapese , were previously healthy , male filipinos , aged 23 to 55 , who were either found dead in bed , or described by their colleagues as having nocturnal seizure activity consisting of gurgling , frothing , and tongue biting immediately prior to death . autopsy findings showed no anatomic findings to account for death . comprehensive serum and urine drug analyses were negative . all decedents showed absence of significant atherosclerosis or grossly detectable structural cardiac anomaly , while four showed cardiomegaly . migrants from southeast asia carry with them a pre-disposition to this syndrome , which appears to decline with longer residence in the new country . the mechanism of death in sunds is believed to be ventricular fibrillation , possibly precipitated by sudden sympathetic discharge . studies suggest at least some deaths may be associated with an abnormal cardiac conduction system . acute pancreatitis has been a finding in some series , but not our cases . why the condition is virtually limited to males and seemingly sleep-triggered , has not been adequately explained . stress and depression are believed to be predisposing factors . 
cardiac conducting tissue . a simplified technique for examination of the sa and av nodes . we describe a modified method for examination of the atrioventricular and sinoatrial nodes that displays the major elements of the cardiac conducting system , yet is not time-consuming for the technician . we examined 31 cases in three categories : cases with previous cardiac history , sudden deaths from no known cause , and cases where death was sudden and accidental . all cases showed histologic abnormalities in the cardiac tissue . we contend that our method would permit such examination to be routinely used in the pathology laboratory . 
arsenic poisoning : acute or chronic ? suicide or murder ? the case of the death by arsenic poisoning of a 62-year-old white man is presented . one year prior to death , he developed intermittent bouts of severe gastroenteritis with vomiting and diarrhea , hyperpigmentation and keratosis of the skin , neutropenia , and guillain-barre-like neuropathy for which he was hospitalized several times . urine test results 6 months prior to death indicating 36 mg/l arsenic were believed to be in error . at the patient 's last admission , he appeared in the emergency room with severe gastroenteritis , hypotension , and dehydration . he died 3 days later . antemortem as well as autopsy specimens revealed elevated arsenic concentrations . arsenic micrograms/g analysis by neutron activation of hair pulled from the man 's head revealed by centimeter segmental analysis proximal to distal : 226 , 104 , 28 , 56 , 41 , 40 , and 74 . the wife of the decedent was charged with murder by arsenic poisoning of this , her fifth , husband . the defense alleged that the decedent had committed suicide . the judge awarded a directed verdict of " not guilty . " particulars of the medical , toxicological , and investigative findings are presented . 
sudden death due to right ventricular cardiomyopathy . a 21-year-old man died suddenly at a small party . he had had no clinical signs of cardiac disease except for a slightly abnormal electrocardiogram ( occasional premature ventricular contractions ) since he was 15 years of age . autopsy examination revealed cardiomegaly ( 469 g ) , with right atrial and ventricular dilatation . the right ventricular myocardium was massively replaced with adipose tissue , and there was one isolated fatty lesion in the right side of the ventricular septum . there were no congenital malformations such as a septal defect or valvular deformity . histologically , muscular fibers remaining in the right ventricular wall showed neither degenerative nor inflammatory changes . an isolated lesion of the ventricular septum consisted of almost complete replacement of the muscle bundles with adipose tissue . such a pathologic condition has recently been termed right ventricular cardiomyopathy . postmortem examination is necessary to make a definite diagnosis of the disease , because in most adult cases of the disease , sudden death occurs before there have been any critical signs . 
sudden death due to delayed rupture of hepatic subcapsular hematoma following blunt abdominal trauma . blunt abdominal trauma can cause sudden , unexpected death due to injuries to internal organs . rupture of a hepatic subcapsular hematoma is a relatively rare cause of sudden death following minor blunt abdominal trauma . death may be delayed several days to weeks . the autopsy is an invaluable diagnostic tool that can be utilized to uncover sudden deaths due to abdominal trauma . the case of an alcoholic who died of a ruptured hepatic subcapsular hematoma is presented . the death investigation revealed that the victim had sustained blunt abdominal trauma during a fall a few days prior to death . 
arterial oxygen desaturation during gastrointestinal endoscopy this prospective study evaluated the incidence and severity of arterial oxygen desaturation during gastrointestinal endoscopy . following pulmonary function testing , 115 male patients underwent esophagogastroduodenoscopy ( egd ) , colonoscopy , or colonoscopy followed by egd , with continuous recording of arterial oxygen saturation ( sao2 ) . most patients ( 80/115 , 70 % ) showed arterial oxygen desaturation ( greater than 4 % decrease from baseline sao2 ) ; severe arterial oxygen desaturation ( sao2 less than or equal to 85 % ) reflecting hypoxemia ( pao2 less than or equal to 50 mm hg ) was noted in one-third of patients overall ( 37/115 , 32 % ) . severe arterial oxygen desaturation occurred in 9/62 egd patients ( 15 % ) , 23/46 colonoscopy patients ( 50 % ) , and 4/7 patients having colonoscopy followed by egd ( 57 % ) . arterial oxygen desaturation occurs frequently during gastrointestinal endoscopy and is often severe . these data support the concept that continuous monitoring of sao2 should be standard procedure during all gastrointestinal endoscopic procedures . 
comparison of coffee intake and coffee-induced symptoms in patients with duodenal ulcer , nonulcer dyspepsia , and normal controls . coffee and decaffeinated coffee stimulate acid secretion . in addition , many patients experience dyspepsia after coffee ingestion . therefore , coffee is often prohibited by physicians in patients with peptic diseases . however , the association between peptic disease and symptoms remains unclear . this study compares coffee intake and the induction of symptoms by coffee in patients with duodenal ulcer disease , nonulcer dyspepsia , and normal controls . we have studied the coffee drinking habits of 58 duodenal ulcer patients , 55 nonulcer dyspepsia patients , and 55 normal controls . the use of coffee on a daily basis was not significantly different between duodenal ulcer patients ( 64 % ) and controls ( 56 % ) , or between nonulcer dyspepsia patients ( 55 % ) and controls . there was also no difference between the three groups in the use of decaffeinated coffee , the number of cups per day , the method of preparation , the length of time of coffee use , or any change in coffee intake in the previous year . the intake of tea , caffeinated carbonated beverages , and aspirin or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs was also similar in the three groups . the duodenal ulcer patients were more likely to be cigarette smokers ( 45 % ) than either the controls ( 16 % ) or the nonulcer dyspepsia patients ( 24 % ) . daily alcohol intake was not significantly different in the three groups . the prevalence of coffee induction of dyspeptic symptoms was similar in duodenal ulcer patients ( 29 % ) and controls ( 22 % ) , but was much more common in nonulcer dyspepsia patients ( 53 % ) than in controls ( 22 % ) , p = 0.0036 . in conclusion , there was no difference in coffee intake between patients with duodenal ulcer , nonulcer dyspepsia , or normal controls . however , patients with nonulcer dyspepsia , but not duodenal ulcer , were more likely to experience dyspeptic symptoms after coffee ingestion . 
duodenal ulcer hemorrhage with and without dyspepsia . to clarify the clinical significance of dyspepsia in patients with bleeding duodenal ulcer , we studied 298 patients prospectively . ages of patients ranged from 16 to 81 yr ( mean 45.9 ) . there were 244 ( 82 % ) dyspeptic and 54 ( 18 % ) nondyspeptic patients . in the dyspeptic group , significantly more patients were taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs . in the nondyspeptic group , there was a higher percentage of patients with duodenal bulb deformity ( p less than 0.005 ) , which deformity was related to previous peptic ulcer disease . the age , sex , past history of dyspepsia or bleeding , consumption of alcohol and cigarettes , and the hospital course of the two groups of patients did not differ significantly . our results show that the clinical course of duodenal ulcer hemorrhage is not significantly different in patients with or without dyspepsia , and indicate that bleeding and dyspepsia probably are two independent presentations in the natural course of the disease . the significance of the correlation between dyspepsia and duodenal bulb deformity is discussed . 
percutaneous transhepatic cholecystostomy for acute complicated cholecystitis in elderly patients . we report our experience with percutaneous transhepatic cholecystostomy in 10 elderly patients with acute cholecystitis , complicated by empyema formation . most of these patients has severe underlying disease , rendering them at high risk for surgical intervention . in all patients , the percutaneous procedure was followed by a rapid regression of clinical symptoms and of radiologic abnormalities . six were considered inoperable . three of these remain free of biliary symptoms , respectively 22 , 10 , and 7 months after percutaneous cholecystostomy . three others died of nonbiliary disease 1-4 months after cholecystostomy . three patients underwent successful elective cholecystostomy 1-5 wk after percutaneous cholecystostomy . in one patient , cholecystectomy had to be performed because of recurrence of hydrops , 1 wk after catheter removal . in our opinion , percutaneous transhepatic cholecystostomy is a safe and effective procedure in the treatment of elderly patients with acute complicated cholecystitis . it can be followed by elective cholecystectomy in good surgical candidates , or by an expectant conservative management in high surgical risk patients . 
comparative studies of du-pan-2 , carcinoembryonic antigen , and ca19-9 in the serum and bile of patients with pancreatic and biliary tract diseases : evaluation of the influence of obstructive jaundice . the levels of du-pan-2 antigen , carcinoembryonic antigen , and ca19-9 in serum and bile of patients with pancreatic and biliary tract diseases were measured . the sensitivities ( true positive ) of du-pan-2 in serum to pancreatic carcinoma ( 64 % ) and to biliary tract carcinoma ( 62 % ) were similar to those of ca19-9 in serum ( 69 % and 72 % , respectively ) . nine of 18 ( 50 % ) patients with ca19-9-negative pancreatic carcinoma tested positive for du-pan-2 . the sensitivities of cea to pancreatic carcinoma ( 56 % ) and to biliary tract carcinoma ( 52 % ) were lowest . the measurement of these antigens in bile seemed to be of little diagnostic value in differentiating between malignant and benign diseases . false positives of these three assays occurred frequently in patients with benign pancreatic or biliary tract disease coupled with obstructive jaundice . after percutaneous transhepatic biliary drainage , serum du-pan-2 and ca19-9 levels returned to normal ranges in patients with benign diseases , but not in patients with carcinoma of the pancreas or of the biliary tract . serum ca19-9 and du-pan-2 antigens are useful tumor markers for pancreatic and biliary tract carcinomas . longitudinal assays of these antigens may be useful for the differential diagnosis of patients with obstructive jaundice . 
serum amylase in patients with renal insufficiency and renal failure . results vary with regard to the upper limits of serum amylase seen in patients with renal failure , and very little has been reported with patients with renal insufficiency not yet requiring dialysis . to determine the level of serum amylase elevation in renal insufficiency and renal failure , we determined serum amylase values in 128 subjects with creatinine clearances less than 90 ml/min . serum amylase remained in the normal range when creatinine clearance was greater than 50 ml/min , and did not become elevated until creatinine clearance was less than 50 ml/min . the highest serum amylase recorded in the absence of acute pancreatitis was 503 iu/l ( normal , less than 128 iu/l ) . serum lipase and trypsin values paralleled those for serum amylase ; values remained normal when creatinine clearance was greater than 50 ml/min , and were normal or elevated when creatinine clearance was less than 50 ml/min . these results indicate that elevations of serum amylase ( i.e. , amylase greater than 128 but less than 500 iu/l ) in asymptomatic patients with impaired renal function are not evident until creatinine clearances fall below 50 ml/min , and probably do not represent acute pancreatitis . 
hyperplastic gastric polyps associated with persistent helicobacter pylori infection and active gastritis . we report two cases of patients with 3-yr histories of upper gastrointestinal symptoms , hyperplastic gastric polyps , and active chronic gastritis . biopsies retrospectively stained with giemsa revealed the persistent presence of helicobacter pylori ( hp ) in gastric biopsies of both patients throughout the 3 yr . after treatment with amoxicillin and bismuth subsalicylate , both became asymptomatic , one demonstrating disappearance and recurrence of the gastric polyps in conjunction with the hp . these cases demonstrate 3 yr of hyperplastic gastric polyps associated with hp and active gastritis . 
isolated ventral pancreatitis in a patient with pancreas divisum . a previously healthy 22-yr-old woman was found to have chronic pancreatitis restricted to the ventral pancreas in association with pancreas divisum . when conservative treatment failed , sphincteroplasty of both papillae was performed with good results . this well-documented case represents a clear exception to the commonly held concept that obstruction of the dorsal duct is the essential pathogenic factor in the development of pancreatitis associated with pancreas divisum . the importance of visualizing both the dorsal and ventral pancreatic ducts to direct therapy for patients with idiopathic pancreatitis is discussed . theories of the pathogenesis of concomitant pancreatitis and pancreas divisum are reviewed . 
toxoplasmic chorioretinitis and hepatic granulomas . a 71-yr-old male presented with a 2-month history of fever , malaise , and weight loss . physical exam revealed chorioretinitis . laboratory studies were notable for elevated levels of alkaline phosphatase , gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase , aspartate transaminase , and alanine transaminase . immunoglobulin g antibody to toxoplasma gondii was positive to a dilution of 1:4096 , whereas serologic studies for hepatitis a virus , hepatitis b virus , cytomegalovirus , epstein-barr virus , human immunodeficiency virus , brucella , and tularemia were negative . a percutaneous biopsy of the liver revealed hepatic granulomas . culture of the biopsy specimen was negative for growth of mycobacteria or fungi . spontaneous improvement in clinical and laboratory parameters occurred over a 4-month period . 
geriatric diabetic nephropathy : an analysis of renal referral in patients age 60 or older . we report a series of 33 consecutive hospitalized geriatric diabetic patients who were referred for evaluation of diabetic nephropathy , defined as proteinuria greater than or equal to 1 g/d ( 1,000 mg/24 h ) or a serum creatinine concentration greater than or equal to 177 mumol/d ( greater than or equal to 2 mg/dl ) . the study population was 60 years old or older ( mean age , 68 + / - 6 years ) , was comprised mainly of women ( 24 of 33 , 72.7 % ) , and was predominantly black ( 25 of 33 , 75.8 % ) . all patients had type ii diabetes . a family history of diabetes in parent or sibling was elicited in 24 ( 72.7 % ) patients . there were eight patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis and 25 with less severe nephropathy ( mean proteinuria , 2.7 g/d [ 2,700 mg/24 h ] ; mean creatinine clearance , 0.57 ml-s [ 34 ml/min ] ) . cardiac disorders were noted in the majority of patients : congestive failure in 20 ( 60.6 % ) , myocardial infarction in eight ( 24.2 % ) , and active angina in five ( 15.2 % ) . other comorbid diseases were present in both hemodialysis patients and the subset of nondialyzed azotemic-proteinuric patients , and consisted of peripheral neuropathy in 31 ( 93.9 % ) , gastroparesis in 16 ( 48.5 % ) , retinopathy in 28 ( 84.8 % ) , and legal blindness in 11 ( 33 % ) . we conclude that geriatric diabetic nephropathy in type ii diabetes is similar in presentation and severity of comorbid extrarenal complications to the syndrome described in younger adults . this inference must be tempered by both the small size and the limitation imposed by the demographics of the study population , which is predominantly composed of black patients receiving treatment at inner city hospitals . 
ethical principles in geriatric nephrology . seven principles are suggested to resolve ethical issues raised by medical developments affecting an aging society . first , there must be clear identification of the goals of medical treatment . second , treatments must consider the whole person . third , physiological concerns are more important than chronological age . fourth , a patient 's choice must be respected when choice is the result of an informed decision-making process . fifth , access has to be equitable while respecting the sixth principle which requires allocation of resources . finally , society must more clearly identify the appropriate principles to guide the care of the dying person . 
cystic fibrosis mutations in north american populations of french ancestry : analysis of quebec french-canadian and louisiana acadian families . a 3-bp deletion ( delta f508 ) in the cystic fibrosis ( cf ) gene is the mutation on the majority of cf chromosomes . we studied 112 cf families from north american populations of french ancestry : french-canadian families referred from hospitals in three cities in quebec and from the saguenay-lac st. jean region of northeastern quebec and acadian families living in louisiana . delta f508 was present on 71 % , 55 % , and 70 % of the cf chromosomes from the major-urban quebec , saguenay-lac st. jean , and louisiana acadian families , respectively . a weighted estimate of the proportion of delta f508 in the french-canadian patient population of quebec was 70 % . we found that 95 % of the cf chromosomes with delta f508 had d7s23 haplotype b , the most frequent haplotype on cf chromosomes . in the saguenay-lac st. jean families , 86 % of the cf chromosomes without delta f508 had the b haplotype , compared with 31 % for the major-urban quebec and louisiana acadian families . the incidence of cf in the saguenay-lac st. jean population was 1/895 live-born infants . 
benign missense variations in the cystic fibrosis gene . the common mutation causing cystic fibrosis is a deletion of phenylalanine 508 ( delta f508 ) , which occurs in a putative nucleotide-binding fold of the gene product . we report two additional mutations , substitution of cysteine for phenylalanine 508 ( f508c ) and substitution of valine for isoleucine 506 ( i506v ) . three compound heterozygous persons , two delta f508/f508c and one delta f508/i506v , had normal clinical and epithelial physiological studies indicating that the f508c and i506v mutations are benign . this opportunity to study the in vivo function of these mutations suggests that amino acid substitutions are more benign than changes in the length of this portion of the putative nucleotide-binding fold . these mutations must be taken into account when performing molecular diagnosis and carrier detection for cystic fibrosis . 
deletions in patients with classical choroideremia vary in size from 45 kb to several megabases . making use of the p1bd5 probe ( dxs165 ) , we have isolated several markers from the choroideremia locus by chromosomal jumping , preparative field-inversion gel electrophoresis , and cloning of a deletion junction fragment . with these clones we were able to identify and characterize eight deletions in 69 choroideremia patients investigated . the deletions are heterogeneous , in both size and location . the smallest deletion ( patient lgl1134 ) comprises approximately 45 kb of dna , whereas the largest ones ( patients 25.6 and lgl2905 ) span a dna segment of at least 5 megabases , which is comparable in size to the smallest deletion detected in a tcd patient ( patient xl45 ) showing a complex phenotype . the tcd deletions encompass variable parts of 150-200-kb dna segment that is flanked by p1bd5 ( dxs165 ) at the centromeric side and by pz 11 at the telomeric side . the deletions in patients 33.1 , lgl1101 , and lgl1134 do not span a translocation breakpoint which was previously mapped on the x chromosome of a female with tcd . the clones isolated from the tcd locus are valuable diagnostic markers for deletion analysis of patients or carrier females . in addition , they should be useful for the isolation of expressed sequences that are part of the tcd gene . 
genetics and biology of human ovarian teratomas . i. cytogenetic analysis and mechanism of origin . one hundred and two benign , mature ovarian teratomas and two immature , malignant teratomas were karyotyped and scored for centromeric heteromorphisms as part of an ongoing project to determine the chromosomal karyotype and the genetic origin of ovarian teratomas and to assess their utility for gene-centromere mapping . karyotypic analysis of the benign cases revealed 95 46 , xx teratomas and 7 chromosomally abnormal teratomas ( 47 , xxx , 47 , xx , +8 [ two cases ] , 47 , xx , +15 , 48 , xx , +7 , +12 91,xxxx,-13 [ mosaic ] , 47,xx,-15 , +21 , + mar ) . our study reports on the first cases of tetraploidy and structural rearrangement in benign ovarian teratomas . the two immature cases had modal chromosome numbers of 78 and 49 . centromeric heteromorphisms that were heterozygous in the host were homozygous in 65.2 % ( n = 58 ) of the benign teratomas and heterozygous in the remaining 34.8 % ( n = 31 ) . chromosome 13 heteromorphisms were the most informative , with 72.7 % heterozygosity in hosts . the cytogenetic data indicate that 65 % of teratomas are derived from a single germ cell after meiosis i and failure of meiosis ii ( type ii ) or endoreduplication of a mature ovum ( type iii ) ; 35 % arise by failure of meiosis i ( type i ) or mitotic division of premeiotic germ cells ( type iv ) . 
genetics and biology of human ovarian teratomas . ii . molecular analysis of origin of nondisjunction and gene-centromere mapping of chromosome i markers . chromosomal heteromorphisms and dna polymorphisms have been utilized to identify the mechanisms that lead to formation of human ovarian teratomas and to construct a gene-centromere map of chromosome 1 by using those teratomas that arise by meiotic nondisjunction . of 61 genetically informative ovarian teratomas , 21.3 % arose by nondisjunction at meiosis i , and 39.3 % arose by meiosis ii nondisjunction . eight polymorphic marker loci on chromosome 1p and one marker on 1q were used to estimate a gene-centromere map . the results show clear linkage of the most proximal 1p marker ( nras ) and the most proximal 1q marker ( d1s61 ) to the centromere at a distance of 14 cm and 20 cm , respectively . estimated gene-centromere distances suggest that , while recombination occurs normally in ovarian teratomas arising by meiosis ii errors , ovarian teratomas arising by meiosis i nondisjunction have altered patterns of recombination . furthermore , the estimated map demonstrates clear evidence of chiasma interference . our results suggest that ovarian teratomas can provide a rapid method for mapping genes relative to the centromere . 
cytogenetic analysis of 750 spontaneous abortions with the direct-preparation method of chorionic villi and its implications for studying genetic causes of pregnancy wastage . altogether , 750 cases of spontaneous abortion between the fifth and 25th week of gestation were analyzed cytogenetically by the direct-preparation method using chorionic villi . the majority of cases ( 68 % ) were derived from early abortions before the 12th week of gestation . the frequency of abnormal karyotypes was 50.1 % ; trisomy was predominant ( 62.1 % ) , followed by triploidy ( 12.4 % ) , monosomy x ( 10.5 % ) , tetraploidy ( 9.2 % ) , and structural chromosome anomalies ( 4.7 % ) . among trisomies , chromosomes 16 ( 21.8 % ) , 22 ( 17.9 % ) , and 21 ( 10.0 % ) were prevalent . the frequency of chromosomally abnormal abortions increased with maternal age but only because of an increase of trisomy . polyploidy and monosomy x , however , decreased . mean maternal age was significantly increased for trisomies 16 , 21 , and 22 and was highest for trisomies 18 and 20 . the results obtained are within the range of variability reported earlier from tissue culture-type studies . a consistent feature during our study is the excess of females in chromosomally normal abortions ( male : female sex ratio 0.71 ) . according to the methodology applied , maternal cell contamination and undetected 46 , xx molar samples can not have influenced the sex ratio . however , a bias introduced by social status or maternal age can not be excluded . with the more rapid and convenient direct preparation of chorionic villi , reliable cytogenetic data on causes of spontaneous abortions can be obtained . 
definitive localization of x-linked kallman syndrome ( hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and anosmia ) to xp22 .3 : close linkage to the hypervariable repeat sequence cri-s232 [ published erratum appears in am j hum genet 1990 nov ; 47 ( 5 ) :883 ] kallmann syndrome is a genetically heterogeneous disease characterized by hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and anosmia . six families in which the disorder followed an x-linked inheritance were investigated by linkage analysis . diagnostic criteria were uniformly applied and included tests for hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and anosmia . close linkage was found by using the hypervariable repeated sequence cri-s232 ( dxs278 ) previously mapped to xp22 .3 . at a maximum lod score of 6.5 , the recombination fraction was calculated as .03 . of 30 fully informative meioses , one recombination between the disease locus and the loci recognized by probe cri-s232 was observed . when an independent approach is used , these results confirm the x-linked kallmann syndrome assignment previously made by deletion mapping , and allow definitive localization of the syndrome assignment previously made by deletion mapping , and allow definitive localization of the syndrome to the xp22 .3 region . this opens the way to carrier detection and to the identification of a gene responsible for this disorder . 
phenotypic heterogeneity in osteogenesis imperfecta : the mildly affected mother of a proband with a lethal variant has the same mutation substituting cysteine for alpha 1-glycine 904 in a type i procollagen gene ( col1a1 ) . a proband with a lethal variant of osteogenesis imperfecta ( oi ) has been shown to have , in one allele in a gene for type i procollagen ( col1a1 ) , a single base mutation that converted the codon for alpha 1-glycine 904 to a codon for cysteine . the mutation caused the synthesis of type i procollagen that was posttranslationally overmodified , secreted at a decreased rate , and had a decreased thermal stability . the results here demonstrate that the proband 's mother had the same single base mutation as the proband . the mother had no fractures and no signs of oi except for short stature , slightly blue sclerae , and mild frontal bossing . as a child , however , she had the triangular facies frequently seen in many patients with oi . on repeated subculturing , the proband 's fibroblasts grew more slowly than the mother 's , but they continued to synthesize large amounts of the mutated procollagen in passages 7-14 . in contrast , the mother 's fibroblasts synthesized decreasing amounts of the mutated procollagen after passage 11 . also , the relative amount of the mutated allele in the mother 's fibroblasts decreased with passage number . in addition , the ratio of the mutated allele to the normal allele in leukocyte dna from the mother was half the value in fibroblast dna from the proband . the simplest interpretation of the data is that the mother was mildly affected because she was a mosaic for the mutation that produced a lethal phenotype in one of her three children . 
thyroid antibodies as a risk factor for down syndrome and other trisomies . to test whether the presence of thyroid antibodies in a parent is a risk factor for meiotic nondisjunction , we measured the levels of thyroid antibodies in serum samples drawn during early pregnancy from 101 gravidas who delivered a child with a trisomy , from 11 gravidas who had had a trisomic child in a previous pregnancy , and from 44 of their husbands . for each case mother , three controls were randomly selected from the same population and matched for age , race , sex of the child , and hospital of birth . cases and controls came from two longitudinal populations , the child health and development studies ( chds ) and the national collaborative perinatal project ( cpp ) , together comprising more than 70,000 live births . all cases with both a definite diagnosis of trisomy-down syndrome ( ds ) or other-and available serum were included . overall , there was no association between the presence of thyroid antibodies in a mother and a trisomy in her offspring ( odds ratio [ or ] = .98 , confidence interval [ ci ] = .54 -1.85 ) . the lack of association was seen in all three subgroups ( ds only , other trisomies , and ds in a previous pregnancy ) , in all ethnic groups , and in the age groups of white mothers either less than 30 years of age ( or = .80 , ci = .40 -1.6 ) or greater than or equal to 30 years of age ( or = 1.26 , ci = .82 -1.9 ) . in the chds population , case fathers , as compared with control fathers , did not have a higher prevalence of thyroid antibodies . 
splicing defect at the ornithine aminotransferase ( oat ) locus in gyrate atrophy . gyrate atrophy ( ga ) , a recessive eye disease involving progressive vision loss due to chorioretinal degeneration , is associated with the deficiency of the mitochondrial enzyme ornithine aminotransferase ( oat ) , with consequent hyperornithinemia . we and others have reported a number of missense mutations at the oat locus which result in ga . here we report a ga patient of danish/swedish ancestry in whom one oat allele produces an mrna that is missing a single 96-bp exon relative to the normal mrna . polymerase-chain-reaction amplification and sequencing revealed a 9-bp deletion covering the splice acceptor region of exon 5 , resulting in the absence of exon 5 sequences from the mrna with no disruption to the reading frame . this mutation , which was not present in 15 other independent ga patients , adds to the array of allelic heterogeneity observed in ga and represents the first example of a splicing mutation associated with this disorder . 
deletion mapping of aland island eye disease to xp21 between dxs67 ( b24 ) and duchenne muscular dystrophy . aland island eye disease ( aied ) is an x-linked form of ocular hypopigmentation -- also known as forsius-eriksson , or type 2 , ocular albinism -- in which affected males demonstrate subnormal visual acuity , protanomalous red-green colorblindness , axial myopia , astigmatism , hypoplasia of the fovea , and hypopigmentation of the fundus . a patient has previously been described who , in addition to aied , manifested a contiguous gene syndrome which included congenital adrenal hypoplasia ( ahc ) , glycerol kinase deficiency ( gkd ) , and duchenne muscular dystrophy ( dmd ) . in the present paper report we report the molecular genetic analysis of his deletion . initially , multiplex polymerase-chain-reaction amplification was used to screen for a dmd-locus deletion which was then further characterized , using dmd cdna and genomic probes , via southern blot analysis . the deletion includes the region encompassed by probes c7 ( dxs28 ) and dmd cdna 8 . probes b24 ( dxs67 ) and dmd cdna 5b-7 show normal hybridization patterns and appear to flank the deletion , while the dmd cdna 8 detects a junction fragment . molecular genetic techniques have mapped the deletion in this patient to the subbands xp21.3-21 .2 , between dxs67 and dmd . 
oral estrogens decrease bleeding time and improve clinical bleeding in patients with renal failure . purpose : a prolonged bleeding time is associated with platelet dysfunction and clinical bleeding in patients with renal failure . parenteral estrogens have been shown to shorten the prolonged bleeding time in patients with chronic renal failure , although the mechanism of action is unknown . we conducted a study to evaluate the efficacy of oral conjugated estrogens in this setting . patients and methods : four patients with renal failure , prolonged bleeding time , and clinical bleeding were given 50 mg of conjugated estrogen ( premarin ) daily . results : bleeding time normalized in two cases and was reduced to less than 50 % of the pretreatment value in one of the remaining two cases . bleeding stopped in all patients within two days . ten dialysis patients with prolonged bleeding time were randomized to a course of 50 mg of premarin daily or placebo . the bleeding time in all five patients in the premarin group normalized or decreased to below 50 % of the pretreatment value after 7.0 + / - 4.2 days of therapy . the bleeding time did not normalize in the five patients treated with placebo . no side effects attributable to therapy were reported . conclusion : we conclude that orally administered conjugated estrogens effectively improve the bleeding tendency in patients with chronic renal failure . 
pleuritis as a manifestation of reactivation tuberculosis . purpose : the purpose of this study was to determine the frequency with which tuberculous pleuritis is a manifestation of reactivation tuberculosis and to compare the clinical manifestations of reactivation tuberculous pleuritis with " classic " tuberculous pleuritis , in which chest roentgenograms reveal no parenchymal infiltrates . patients and methods : we evaluated the medical records of 59 patients in whom tuberculous pleuritis was confirmed by histologic findings or mycobacterial culture . twenty-seven patients ( 46 % ) had typical chest roentgenographic findings of reactivation tuberculosis , whereas 32 ( 54 % ) had classic tuberculous pleuritis . the clinical and laboratory features of these two groups were compared . results : symptoms were more prolonged and pleural fluid glucose and lactate dehydrogenase concentrations were more markedly abnormal in patients with reactivation pleuritis than in those with classic pleuritis , suggesting a more chronic inflammatory process in the former group . compared with patients with classic tuberculous pleuritis , those with reactivation pleuritis had a lower frequency of reactive tuberculin skin tests ( 61 % versus 88 % ) and granulomatous pleural inflammation ( 25 % versus 72 % ) , but a higher bacillary burden , manifest by a higher frequency of positive sputum smears for acid-fast bacilli ( 50 % versus 0 % ) and positive mycobacterial cultures from sputum ( 60 % versus 23 % ) and pleural fluid ( 91 % versus 66 % ) . conclusions : in contrast to previous reports , tuberculous pleuritis was a manifestation of reactivation tuberculosis in 46 % ( 27 of 59 ) of patients . tuberculous pleuritis is a more chronic process in patients with reactivation disease than in those with classic pleuritis . the lower frequency of reactive tuberculin skin tests and granuloma formation , combined with the higher bacillary burden in patients with reactivation pleuritis , suggest that these patients mount a less effective immune response to mycobacterium tuberculosis infection than do patients with the classic form of tuberculous pleuritis . 
association of helicobacter pylori infection with dyspeptic symptoms in patients undergoing gastroduodenoscopy . purpose : to determine the prevalence of helicobacter pylori in patients with non-ulcer dyspepsia and ulcer disease as well as in a control population undergoing endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography ( ercp ) for suspected pancreatic or biliary disease . patients and methods : forty-six eligible patients undergoing upper endoscopy at massachusetts general hospital were studied over a period of 18 months , as well as 24 patients undergoing ercp for presumed pancreatic or biliary disease . two biopsy specimens from the fundus and two from the antrum were taken for microbiologic and histopathologic analysis . sera were examined by enzyme-linked immunoabsorbent assay . all specimens were processed in a blind fashion . chi-square test with yates ' correction was used for statistical analysis . results : h. pylori was found in 31 of 46 ( 67 % ) study patients and in six of 24 ( 25 % ) control patients ( by microbiologic or histologic techniques ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . h. pylori was found in all patients with peptic ulcer disease and in 60 % of patients without ulcers . no association between h. pylori and any specific gastrointestinal symptom was observed . h. pylori was identified in the fundus as often as in the antrum , although in the antrum the organism was more often associated with histologic gastritis . compared with histology , serologic assays for igg and iga antibodies to h. pylori had sensitivities of 100 % and 94 % , and specificities of 86 % and 76 % , respectively . reexamination of selected specimens without knowledge of their identity revealed that the specificity of serology exceeded 94 % while the sensitivity of histologic and microbiologic studies may have been closer to 80 % . conclusions : h. pylori was more common in dyspeptic patients than in our control subjects undergoing ercp . multiple biopsy sites from fundus and antrum are required to exclude infection . serologies of igg and iga were sensitive and specific for h. pylori , suggesting a possible role for non-endoscopic diagnosis of this infection . the frequent association of h. pylori with active inflammation rather than with quiescent gastritis is consistent with a pathologic role of this organism . 
laparoscopic ventrosuspensions . a review of 72 cases . laparoscopic ventrosuspension is simple to perform after diagnostic laparoscopy . serious postoperative complication is unlikely . however , patient follow-up over 6 months has not confirmed the usefulness of laparoscopic ventrosuspension in the management of deep dyspareunia or pelvic pain in association with a retroverted uterus . the success rate of laparoscopic ventrosuspension at 6 months varies from 18.6 % to 46.5 % . the prior use of a hodge pessary does not predict the success of laparoscopic ventrosuspension . 
pregnancy-induced hypertension and acute fatty liver of pregnancy : atypical presentations . severe pregnancy-induced hypertension and markedly elevated levels of serum alkaline phosphatase developed in a 29-year-old-woman in whom one pregnancy resulted in intrauterine death . acute fatty liver of pregnancy developed with good fetal outcome in the next pregnancy . this case suggests that pregnancy-induced hypertension and acute fatty liver of pregnancy are part of a clinical spectrum . moreover , classic abnormalities of liver function tests need not be present in acute fatty liver of pregnancy . 
management and outcomes of pregnancies complicated by human b19 parvovirus infection : a prospective study during a large statewide outbreak of fifth disease in connecticut in 1988 , 39 pregnant women were identified who had serologic evidence of recent human b19 parvovirus infection . the patients were followed up prospectively with targeted fetal ultrasonographic examinations to detect signs of fetal hydrops . of these 39 pregnant women , 37 had healthy infants and two patients had miscarriages . none of the fetuses developed hydrops . we propose that pregnant women exposed to b19 parvovirus be tested for evidence of igg and igm b19-specific antibodies and that targeted fetal ultrasonography be considered when igm antibodies are found . percutaneous umbilical blood sampling and intrauterine transfusion can be considered in cases of b19 parvovirus-associated hydrops and anemia . the overall fetal loss rate in this prospective follow-up group was 5 % . 
colon cancer in pregnancy with elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein level at presentation . a case of colon cancer in pregnancy is presented in which the maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein level was elevated . failure to evaluate colon cancer as a cause of the elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein may have accounted for the poor outcome . 
effects of hypertension on pregnancy monitoring and results . the effect of severity of hypertension on fetal heart rate tracing changes and neonatal outcomes was evaluated on all patients with hypertension seen in 1980 and 1981 ( 666 cases , 10 % of the pregnant population ) in the chicago-lying in hospital . the patients were grouped according to severity of hypertension , and the fetal heart rate monitoring , drugs administered , mode of delivery , and neonatal outcome were analyzed . half of the patients ( 326 ) had mild hypertension and 13 % ( 87 ) had severe hypertension ; the remainder ( 253 ) had moderate hypertension . there were 49 % primiparous and 51 % multiparous women . the diagnosis of preeclampsia was made in 76 % of cases , and chronic hypertension in 19 % . only 12 % of the total were premature by dates , but 47 % of this group were among the severe group . oxytocin was given to 50 % , whereas delivery was spontaneous in 56 % of cases , and by cesarean section in 22 % . this was higher among the severe hypertension group ( 37 % ) , and the prematurity rate was 47 % . nonstress testing was done in one third of cases and only nonreactivity was associated with neonatal death . neonatal depression ( apgar score less than 6 at 5 minutes ) was significantly associated with intrapartum fixed baseline and late decelerations ; these were the best predictors of fetal outcome . the administration of magnesium sulfate , hydralazine , meperidine , or morphine did not predictably affect the fetal heart rate pattern . the perinatal mortality was 21 % in the mild group and 36 % and 138 % , respectively , among moderate and severe cases of hypertension . close antepartum and intrapartum surveillance , including proper fetal monitoring , should help to reduce risks for mother and fetus through timely intervention . 
spontaneous infarction of placental chorioangioma and associated regression of hydrops fetalis . we report a case of a large chorioangioma diagnosed prenatally with concomitant meconium peritonitis and hydrops fetalis in the second trimester . spontaneous regression of the tumor occurred , associated with some resolution of the fetal hydrops and delivery near term with good neonatal outcome . 
ultrasonographic detection of the second-trimester fetus with trisomy 18 and trisomy 21 . biparietal diameter/femur length ratio and nuchal thickness were found to be sensitive indicators for the prenatal detection of trisomy 18 and trisomy 21 . a biparietal diameter/femur length ratio greater than 1.5 sd above the control mean correctly identified 5 of 11 ( 46 % ) fetuses with trisomy 21 and 3 of 4 ( 75 % ) fetuses with trisomy 18 . nuchal thickening ( 6 mm or more ) correctly identified 5 of 12 ( 41 % ) fetuses with trisomy 21 and 2 of 4 ( 50 % ) fetuses with trisomy 18 . the sensitivity and specificity of the biparietal diameter/femur length ratio in detecting either aneuploidy was 53 % and 93 % , respectively , whereas a thickened nuchal fold had a sensitivity of 44 % and a specificity of 100 % . the combined use of the two ultrasonographic measurements had an overall sensitivity of 81 % and a specificity of 93 % . prospective ascertainment of these two trisomies appears warranted in low-risk populations . 
infertility and eating disorders . sixty-six consecutive infertility clinic patients were prospectively screened with the 26-item eating attitudes test and a study questionnaire . women identified as being at high risk for an eating disorder were then interviewed to confirm or refute the diagnosis . a total of 7.6 % of infertility clinic women were found to suffer from anorexia nervosa or bulimia nervosa . if eating disorders not otherwise specified were included , a total of 16.7 % of infertility patients were found to suffer from an eating disorder . among infertile women with amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea 58 % had eating disorders . because women often fail to disclose eating disorders to their gynecologists and may appear to be of normal weight , it is recommended that a nutritional and eating disorder history be taken in infertility patients , particularly those with menstrual abnormalities . it has previously been shown that disorder eating and nutrition can affect menstruation , fertility , maternal weight gain , and fetal well-being . 
antenatal spontaneous perforation of the extrahepatic biliary tree . spontaneous perforation of the biliary system is an unusual neonatal phenomenon that is rarely recognized at birth . to date , it has not been reported antenatally . a 16-year-old pregnant adolescent had an ultrasonogram at 25 weeks of pregnancy that revealed ascites in the fetus . after the infant was delivered at 32 weeks , a hepato-iminodiacetic acid scan showed a spontaneous rupture of the common bile duct . the infant was treated with external drainage of the biliary tree and recovered well . this case demonstrates that spontaneous perforations of the bile ducts can occur much earlier than the usually described 2 to 12 weeks after birth , can be diagnosed antenatally , and should be added to the list of causes of fetal ascites . 
the effect of race on the relationship between fetal death and altered fetal growth . this population study examines racial differences in the relationship between birth weight and fetal death . an earlier report showed that a birth weight that results in a fourfold increased risk of stillbirth is not a constant birth weight percentile ( 2nd percentile at 25 weeks , 17th percentile at 42 weeks ) . this analysis was applied to 782,430 white and black births in illinois from 1980 to 1984 . mean and 10th percentile growth for white and black infants is identical before 34 weeks ' gestation and growth diverges by 250 gm at term , with white infants being larger . race-specific birth weights resulting in quadrupling of the stillbirth rate were determined with an exponential regression analysis of the relationship between birth weight and fetal death rate for each gestational age . the data indicate ( 1 ) that the birth weights resulting in quadrupling the stillbirth rate are substantially above the denver 10th percentile and the previously unpublished race-specific illinois 10th percentiles and ( 2 ) that at term white infants demonstrate this constant risk at the 12th percentile , whereas black infants exhibit the risk at the 18th percentile . from these data we conclude that black fetuses are more sensitive than white fetuses to factors that adversely affect growth and that continued use of " race-neutral " data for clinical management in racially heterogenous populations will not accurately predict the risk of stillbirth . 
vitrectomy retinotomy aspiration biopsy of choroidal tumors we used an investigational technique for the biopsy of intraocular tumors to aid in the diagnosis of three choroidal tumors . a three-port trans-pars plana vitrectomy was performed in conjunction with retinotomy , tumor biopsy , endophotocoagulation , and air-fluid exchange . vitrectomy was used to decrease the amount of traction secondary to retained vitreous after intraocular surgery . retinotomy sites were chosen under microscopic control to avoid large caliber retinal vessels . then a modified tumor-aspiration technique , together with endophotocoagulation and aspiration of intraoperative vitreous hemorrhages , provided an opportunity to sample tumor tissue continually at varied depths . we have added standard vitreous surgery concepts , techniques , and instrumentation to produce vitrectomy retinotomy aspiration biopsy of choroidal tumors . 
successful treatment of recurrent corneal erosion with nd : yag anterior stromal puncture i used a new technique to create anterior corneal stromal punctures for the treatment of traumatic recurrent corneal erosions that had not responded to conventional therapy . three patients with such erosions within the visual axis were successfully treated by using multiple applications of the nd : yag laser set at energy levels between 1.8 and 2.2 mj . one of these patients had previous stromal puncture with a bent 25-gauge needle . the erosions of all patients healed without complications and have remained symptom-free for four to six months . compared with needle puncture , the laser punctures were more reproducible , shallow , and translucent . 
penetrating keratoplasty after ocular trauma . we reviewed the records of 41 patients who underwent penetrating keratoplasty for a corneal opacity caused by trauma between jan . 1 , 1983 , and dec . 31 , 1988 . most of the patients were young males whose average age was 35 years . common tools accounted for many injuries ( 14 of 41 , 34 % ) . sixteen injuries ( 39 % ) were work-related . thirty-six patients ( 88 % ) had corneal scars from a perforating injury , four patients ( 10 % ) had corneal edema , and one patient ( 2 % ) required emergency penetrating keratoplasty for extensive tissue loss . of the 39 patients with one year of follow-up , 31 ( 82 % ) maintained clear corneal grafts . rejection occurred in nine of 39 patients ( 23 % ) and only three ( 33 % ) of the rejections resolved . visual outcome was favorable with 20 patients ( 51 % ) attaining best-corrected postoperative visual acuity of 20/20 to 20/40 , nine patients ( 23 % ) attaining visual acuity of 20/50 to 20/100 , and ten patients ( 26 % ) attaining visual acuity of 20/200 or worse . preoperative retinal disease ( six of 39 , 15 % ) , astigmatic errors ( five of 39 , 13 % ) , graft failures ( four of 39 , 10 % ) , and postoperative glaucoma ( 12 of 39 , 31 % ) adversely influenced the outcome . although the prevalence of postoperative complications is relatively high , good visual results can be obtained in patients who undergo penetrating keratoplasty after ocular trauma . 
response of bitot 's spots in preschool children to vitamin a treatment . in a double-masked , placebo-controlled , clinical trial in indonesia , 88 preschool children between the ages of 36 and 72 months with bitot 's spots were randomly assigned to 200,000 iu of oral vitamin a or placebo and followed up for five weeks . baseline and follow-up serum vitamin a levels were obtained . of the 45 children receiving vitamin a , 33 ( 73.3 % ) showed complete cure and disappearance of bitot 's spots , six ( 13.3 % ) had disappearance of some but not all bitot 's spots , and six ( 13.3 % ) were unresponsive to treatment . the nonresponsive children were older , all male , and had higher initial mean serum vitamin a levels , 23.0 micrograms/dl , compared to 15.9 micrograms/dl in the cured group ( p = .017 ) . these data suggest that normal vitamin a status may be found in approximately 13 % of children with bitot 's spots before vitamin a intervention and that one fourth of those who had bitot 's spots originally will not be cured of all bitot 's spots after intervention . these are important factors to consider when using bitot 's spots in prevalence surveys as a clinical sign of vitamin a deficiency . 
facial nerve injury and hemifacial spasm . we studied evidence of facial nerve damage in patients with hemifacial spasm . three types of evidence of nerve damage were analyzed : objectively measured weakness in eyelid protractor strength , clinically evident weakness of muscles innervated by the seventh nerve , and clinically evident aberrant seventh nerve regeneration . of the 60 patients in the study , 54 ( 90 % ) had at least one of these features of seventh nerve damage . objectively measured eyelid protractor weakness was noted in 27 of 58 patients ( 47 % ) who were tested . clinically apparent weakness of at least one of four facial muscle groups was noted in 42 of 60 patients ( 70 % ) . aberrant seventh nerve regeneration was documented in 25 of 60 patients ( 42 % ) . these findings indicate that facial nerve damage is common in patients with hemifacial spasm . 
immunopathology of diabetes in the rt6-depleted diabetes-resistant bb/wor rat . insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus appears to be an autoimmune disease that is characterized morphologically by insulitis , an inflammation of the pancreatic islets of langerhans that results in the destruction of the insulin-producing beta cells . the rt6-depleted dr rat provides a good model for the in situ study of insulitis . the authors used the anti-rt6 .1 monoclonal antibody to selectively deplete rt6 t cells in dr rats and produce a synchronous and rapid development of insulitis that commences 10 days after treatment . the phenotype of cells that infiltrated the islets at different stages of insulitis in the rt6-depleted dr rat was determined by immunocytochemical techniques . a prodromal period of 10 days was present in which the authors could not detect morphologic alterations within the pancreas . this is followed by a second phase of early insulitis in which a few islets are infiltrated by macrophages and t cells . this rapidly progresses by 18 days to the final phase of generalized insulitis in which the islets are massively infiltrated by macrophages and t cells . 
reversal of colchicine-induced mitotic arrest in chinese hamster cells with a colchicine-specific monoclonal antibody . the ability of a high-affinity colchicine-binding monoclonal antibody to reverse the effects of colchicine on chinese hamster ovary cells was investigated . using flow cytometry , a complete mitotic blockade was demonstrated after 16 hours with 2.5 x 10 ( -7 ) mol/l ( molar ) colchicine . colchicine-induced changes were reversible when equimolar antibody was added simultaneously with or up to 6 hours after colchicine . with further delay in addition of antibody , a progressive irreversible increase in mitotic blockade and increase in mean cell size was observed . prolonged colchicine exposure , without antibody reversal , led to polyploidy and structural chromosome breakage . early antibody reversal restored cells to the diploid state , whereas delayed reversal resulted in a time-dependent increase in polyploidy . colchicine-induced polyploidy and chromosomal aberrations may be the basis for both colchicine toxicity and the time-dependent increase in irreversibility of colchicine effects . 
lyme borreliosis in the severe combined immunodeficiency ( scid ) mouse manifests predominantly in the joints , heart , and liver . the authors describe the histopathologic evolution of lyme disease in severe combined immunodeficiency ( scid ) and normal c.b-17 and c57bl/6 mice inoculated with borrelia burgdorferi . starting on day 7 after inoculation , all scid mice infected subcutaneously in the tail with a low-passage european tick isolate of b. burgdorferi had clinical evidence of arthritis characterized by reddening and swelling of tibiotarsal joints . later on , other joints , ie , metatarsal and ulnacarpal joints were also affected . the infection of scid mice resulted in a persistent spirochetemia and the development of a multisystem disease with chronic progressive inflammation of joints , heart , and liver . major histopathologic alterations included 1 ) severe joint lesions , characterized by the presence of hyperplastic inflamed synovial lining cells associated with the erosion and destruction of cartilage and/or bone ; 2 ) pancarditis with infiltrations of mononuclear cells in the endocardium , myocardium , and pericardium ; and 3 ) hepatitis with mononuclear cell infiltrations confined to the portal field and central vein , granulomatous reactions , and eventually the development of liver fibrosis . in addition , smaller more confined lesions were found in kidneys , lung , brain , and striated muscle . the inflammatory infiltrates in the various organs were associated mostly with mac-1 + cells , largely monocytes and macrophages , as well as some polymorphonuclear leukocytes , but not b and t lymphocytes . infective spirochetes could be readily isolated from blood and joints and were found at the site of inoculum and the myocardium . in contrast , subcutaneous inoculation of normal c.b-17 or c57bl/6 mice with spirochetes in general did not result in clinical signs of arthritis . only 10 % to 20 % of the c57bl/6 mice , but none of the c.b-17 mice , showed clinical evidence of oligoarthritis , which appeared not before day 36 after inoculation . in general , the infection of normal mice resulted in minimal lesions in various organs , and no spirochetes could be visualized or reisolated from their tissues . the data demonstrate that lyme borreliosis may develop in mice in the absence of detectable specific b and t cells and thus suggest an immunologic control of the disease in this species . the scid mouse model therefore can be used to define the components of the immune system responsible for the suppression and/or the progression of the disease . 
intraluminal fibrosis induced unilaterally by lobar instillation of cdcl2 into the rat lung . lung injury induced by intratracheal instillation of cadmium chloride ( cdcl2 ) into the rat lung may serve as a model of human interstitial lung disease . in this study , cdcl2 solutions were instilled through a lobar bronchus into the left lung of the rat . two doses ( 400 micrograms or 50 micrograms of cdcl2 , each in 400 microliters of neutral saline ) were used and the morphologic changes occurring during the first 7 days after a single exposure were documented by light and electron microscopy . with the higher dose , inflammatory cells appeared in the alveolar interstitium 1 day after cdcl2 administration . edema and thickening of the alveolar walls were evident , as were damaged type i epithelial cells and denuded basement membranes . fibrin was found in the air spaces . within 2 days , inflammatory cells were seen in large numbers and fibroblasts were observed passing through gaps in the alveolar basement membranes into the air spaces . by 4 and 7 days after cdcl2 , various forms of intraluminal fibrosis , including intrabronchiolar budding , mural incorporation , and obliterative changes , were observed . the contralateral lungs had normal-appearing architecture for all the time points investigated . in the lower dose exposure , gradients of alveolar damage were observed in which normal lung , interstitial fibrosis , and/or intraluminal fibrosis were seen within treated lungs . in the mildly damaged regions , interstitial fibrosis predominated , while in the more severely damaged regions , mural incorporation of the convoluted basement membranes was observed . the pulmonary fibrosis that developed appeared to be similar to some human interstitial lung diseases and may offer a system in which to study the regulation of collagen deposition and fibrosis development in these pathologic conditions . 
perturbation of differentiated functions during viral infection in vivo . in vivo relationship of host genes and lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus to growth hormone deficiency . retarded growth and disordered glucose metabolism secondary to growth hormone ( gh ) deficiency are associated with persistent lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus ( lcmv ) infection of gh-producing cells in the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland . infected c3h/st mice , which are h-2k haplotype , become gh deficient , and lcmv replicates in most ( more than 90 % ) of their gh-producing cells . in contrast , balb/wehi and swr/j mice , which are h-2d and h-2q , respectively , do not develop this gh deficiency , and less than 20 % of their gh-producing cells are infected by virus . yet all three strains infected at birth with lcmv strain armstrong ( arm ) carry equivalent amounts of virus in their blood , brain , heart , kidney , liver , spleen , and thymus throughout life . of five additional h-2k murine strains tested , c3h/hej and cba/n mice develop this gh-like disorder , whereas neither akr/j , b10/br , nor balb/kae mice do , indicating that the h-2k haplotype does not control the gh susceptibility . furthermore c3h/sw mice , which have the h-2b haplotype on the c3h background , develop the disease , again negating any correlation with h-2k but inferring that the c3h background is responsible . one half of the hybrid offspring produced by crossing the c3h/st gh-deficient strain with balb/wehi-resistant mice develop the disease , but the trait is not sex linked . f1 hybrid backcrosses with the susceptible c3h/st parental strain or resistant balb/wehi strain indicate the involvement of more than two genes . hence the development of a gh deficiency by lcmv-infected c3h/st mice is not linked to the mhc haplotype , is not sex linked , and is not due to a dominant gene . multiple genes are involved and these are related to c3h background . 
plasma norepinephrine in chronic schizophrenia . several lines of evidence indicate altered noradrenergic function in schizophrenia . the authors examined resting , standing , and change ( standing minus resting ) in plasma norepinephrine levels in 14 drug-free patients with chronic schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder and in 33 age - and sex-matched healthy volunteers . schizophrenic patients had significantly higher resting and standing plasma norepinephrine levels and significantly greater change . resting and standing levels were significantly related to positive and negative symptoms . there was a significant positive correlation between resting plasma and csf norepinephrine levels and a significant negative correlation between csf homovanillic acid and resting , standing , and change in plasma norepinephrine levels . 
a comparison of host responses of the mongolian jird to infections of brugia malayi and b. pahangi . host responses of jirds receiving a single subcutaneous inoculation of subperiodic brugia malayi were compared with those of jirds similarly infected with b. pahangi . parasite burdens , lymphatic lesion severity , granulomatous reactivity , antibody responses to parasite antigens , and complete blood cell counts were assessed at 60 and 150 days post-inoculation . at 60 days post-inoculation , percentages of adults recovered at necropsy and lymphatic lesion severity were greater in b. pahangi-infected jirds . at 150 days post-inoculation , lesion severity and percentages of worms recovered were similar in both infections . no significant differences were noted in either infection in reactivity to homologous or heterologous parasite antigens in any parameter measured . similarities in the kinetics of the inflammatory reactivities of the 2 infections suggest that previous observations made in the jird-b . pahangi model could be utilized in designing studies using b. malayi . further , the more marked lesion severity observed in b. pahangi-infected jirds and the relative ease of maintaining b. pahangi in the laboratory support the continued use of this system as a conceptual model for the study of lymphatic lesion pathogenesis . 
initial failure of surgical exploration in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism . to determine the causes of failures of cervical exploration for primary hyperparathyroidism , we reviewed 892 patients operated on by one surgeon from 1953 to 1990 . twenty-seven patients ( 3 % ) remained hypercalcemic or developed hypercalcemia within 6 months of surgery . of these , five patients had one adenoma removed initially ; at reoperation , three patients had a second adenoma that was successfully removed , whereas the other two patients had hyperplasia and required subtotal parathyroidectomies . no enlarged parathyroid glands were identified in 22 patients . eventually , six patients became normocalcemic spontaneously , seven patients underwent re-exploration with a successful outcome in all but one case , two patients had ectopic hyperparathyroidism associated with carcinoma elsewhere , and seven patients refused reoperation and remain hypercalcemic . the failure rate of surgical exploration for primary hyperparathyroidism can be reduced by systematically exploring all four parathyroid glands . all abnormal parathyroids should be removed with histologic verification . when no abnormal glands are found , localization studies should be performed before re-exploration . 
results of surgical treatment for hyperparathyroidism associated with renal disease . recently , the role and timing of surgery for treating secondary and tertiary hyperparathyroidism ( hpt ) have been questioned . in order to delineate the indications for surgery in these patients , a retrospective analysis of 53 consecutive patients treated with parathyroidectomy was conducted . subtotal thyroidectomy was done in 37 of 45 patients undergoing their initial operations for hpt . eight additional patients were referred after failed operations . of 33 patients with preoperative bone pain , 70 % improved . joint pain improved in 87 % of 30 patients , pruritus improved in 81 % of 27 patients , and preoperative malaise improved in 73 % of 33 patients after parathyroidectomy . abdominal pain and irritated eyes were unlikely to improve . the best predictors of a successful outcome were a markedly elevated preoperative immunoreactive parathyroid hormone ( mid-region ) level and an elevated alkaline phosphatase level . there were no perioperative deaths . one patient ( 1.6 % ) had a recurrent laryngeal nerve injury , and one patient required reoperation for a neck hematoma . no patient had permanent hypoparathyroidism , but transient hypocalcemia ( less than 7 mg/dl ) occurred in 22 % . postoperative hypocalcemia correlated with elevated preoperative alkaline phosphatase levels ( r2 = 0.247 ) . 
complications of the pectoralis major myocutaneous flap in head and neck reconstruction . a retrospective review of the complications in 211 patients undergoing pectoralis major myocutaneous flap reconstruction is presented . the flap was used for mucosal lining of the oral cavity or oropharynx in 109 patients , for pharyngoesophageal reconstruction in 44 , for skin coverage in 47 , and for other locations in 14 patients . flap-related complications developed in 63 % of the patients . these included flap necrosis , suture line dehiscence , fistula formation , infection , and hematoma . analysis of risk factors for the development of flap complications showed the following factors to be significant : age over 70 ; female gender ; nomographic overweight ; albumin less than 4 g/dl ; use of the flap in reconstruction of the oral cavity after major glossectomy ; and presence of other systemic diseases . the median length of hospitalization for those developing complications was 33 days compared with 16 days for those who did not develop any complications . thirty-five ( 26 % ) of the 135 patients developing complications required reoperation and only 2 among these required a second flap . similarly , only 13 of the 61 patients who developed fistulas required surgical closure . 
early facial reanimation following radical parotid and temporal bone tumor resections . a retrospective study of 35 patients who underwent early facial reanimation following extirpative parotid and temporal bone surgery requiring facial nerve sacrifice was performed . regional facial reanimation performed immediately or within several days included 16 patients who underwent temporalis muscle transposition and 27 who underwent gold weight or eyespring lid reanimation with lower lid tightening . simultaneous nerve grafts or nerve crossover procedures were performed in 22 patients . the authors ' favored approaches to facial reanimation are discussed , with an emphasis on the value of early reanimation using properly selected techniques . 
definitive mandibular replacement using reconstruction plates . mandibular defects following radical cancer surgery continue to provide challenges to head and neck surgeons . twenty-seven patients with advanced oral cancer underwent primary mandibular replacement with metal reconstruction plates without the use of bone . twenty-one patients ( 78 % ) had successful reconstruction with primary soft tissue healing . six patients required removal of the plate in the postoperative period . two of these patients had their reconstruction plates replaced as a secondary procedure following soft tissue healing . thus , 23 of 27 patients ( 85 % ) had final mandibular reconstruction and were followed for an average of 19 months . functional and cosmetic results were satisfactory . for patients with advanced disease , this technique compares favorably with microvascular transfer in terms of operating time and donor defect . despite problems with plate exposure , the initial and overall success rates of 78 % and 85 % , respectively , make the use of these plates a reasonable choice for immediate reconstructive needs in patients with difficult tumors . 
mandibular reconstruction with composite microvascular tissue transfer . microvascular free tissue transfer has provided a variety of methods of restoring vascularized bone and soft tissue to difficult defects created by tumor resection and trauma . over 7 years , 26 patients have undergone 28 free flaps for mandibular reconstruction , 15 for primary squamous cell carcinoma of the floor of the mouth or tongue , 7 for recurrent tumor , and 6 for other reasons [ lymphangioma ( 1 ) , infection ( 1 ) , gunshot wound ( 1 ) , and osteoradionecrosis ( 3 ) ] . primary reconstruction was performed in 19 cases and secondary in 9 . all repairs were composite flaps including 12 scapula , 5 radial forearm , 3 fibula , 2 serratus , and 6 deep circumflex iliac artery . mandibular defects included the symphysis alone ( 7 ) , symphysis and body ( 5 ) , symphysis-body-ramus condyle ( 2 ) , body or ramus ( 13 ) , and bilateral body ( 1 ) . fourteen patients had received prior radiotherapy to adjuvant or curative doses . eight received postoperative radiotherapy . all patients had initially successful vascularized reconstruction by clinical examination ( 28 ) and positive radionuclide scan ( 22 of 22 ) . bony stability was achieved in 25 of 26 patients and oral continence in 24 of 26 . one complete flap loss occurred at 14 days . complications of some degree developed in 22 patients including partial skin necrosis ( 3 ) , orocutaneous fistula ( 3 ) , plate exposure ( 1 ) , donor site infection ( 3 ) , fracture of reconstruction ( 1 ) , and fracture of the radius ( 1 ) . microvascular transfer of bone and soft tissue allows a reliable reconstruction -- despite previous radiotherapy , infection , foreign body , or surgery -- in almost every situation in which mandible and soft tissue are absent . bony union , a healed wound , and reasonable function and appearance are likely despite early fistula , skin loss , or metal plate or bone exposure . 
reconstruction of mandibular defects in irradiated patients . in this prospective study , mandibular reconstruction using titanium plates was evaluated in 31 patients treated between july 1988 and january 1990 . sixteen patients had prior surgery ; 13 had prior radiotherapy . in 11 patients , prior radiation and surgery had failed . sixteen patients received postoperative radiotherapy either in standard or accelerated fractions . twelve patients had complications of either intraoral ( 8 ) , extraoral ( 5 ) , or combined ( 1 ) plate exposure or fistula formation ( 2 ) . factors significantly related to complications were poor nutrition , accelerated radiation , and recurrence . sixty-one percent of all patients healed uneventfully . when patients with complications secondary to recurrence who subsequently died were excluded , the success rate was 73 % . only one patient had an unacceptable result that produced a cosmetic and functional deformity despite secondary repair . 
sequential connection of flaps : a logical approach to customized mandibular reconstruction . microsurgery has improved the success rate for reconstruction of composite defects in the head and neck . restoration of mandibular continuity alone is not adequate for reconstruction . replacement of the oral lining with thin tissue is necessary to improve tongue mobility and to set the stage for later dental restoration . there is currently no ideal osteocutaneous free flap that provides unlimited length of bone , can undergo multiple osteotomies to produce the proper curve to the reconstructed mandible , and provides thin skin for oral lining . combining free flaps can take advantage of the strengths of the individual donor sites and eliminate some of the problems with current osteocutaneous flaps . in six patients , a fibular osseous free flap was combined with either a radial forearm flap or a lateral arm flap to provide bone and oral lining in reconstruction of mandibular composite defects . in these selected patients , the fibula provided the blood supply for the second free flap , which was placed sequentially . the distal peroneal vessels were used to anastomose to the radial forearm vessels or the lateral arm pedicle . this approach allows the surgeon to customize the defect by improving both the functional and aesthetic aspects of reconstruction and is of use in cases where vascular access is limited , such as following head and neck surgery and radiation . 
squamous carcinoma of the posterior pharyngeal wall . we have reviewed a 12-year experience with 295 patients treated for squamous carcinoma of the pharynx in order to focus on 78 patients whose lesions arose in the posterior wall . surgery was the definitive therapy for the primary tumor in 57 ( 73 % ) , including 3 treatment groups . thirty-two patients had limited resections that preserved the larynx , involving local excision ( 7 patients ) , anterior pharyngotomy ( 7 patients ) , lateral pharyngotomy ( 6 patients ) , median labiomandibular glossotomy ( 6 patients ) , or median mandibulotomy with paralingual extension ( 6 patients ) . the second group consisted of 21 patients with more extensive tumors who required a laryngectomy and complex reconstruction , often with postoperative radiotherapy . finally , there were four patients who developed metachronous second primaries in the pharynx subsequent to a laryngectomy . all required flap reconstruction . of the 21 patients whose primary treatment was radiotherapy , 5 had lesions that were implanted after access was provided by a mandibulotomy . cumulative 5-year survival was 32 % and ranged from 44 % in those with favorable lesions to 15 % in those with extensive tumors . our experience highlights the variety of treatment approaches available in patients with pharyngeal carcinomas confined to the posterior wall . surgery in this setting carries acceptable morbidity and yields survival rates that compare favorably with those achieved by external radiation therapy alone . results in patients with extensive lesions still leave much to be desired , despite radical surgery and aggressive radiotherapy . innovative brachytherapy techniques using surgery for access deserve further investigation . 
lateral temporal bone resections . eighteen consecutive patients underwent a lateral temporal bone resection for the treatment of tumors originating in the auricle , the external auditory canal , the periauricular skin , or the parotid and were retrospectively analyzed . the different lateral temporal bone resections performed have been categorized into four types . the type i resection consists of the removal of the tympanic bone and the external auditory canal lateral to the tympanic membrane . the type ii resection consists of the removal of the entire tympanic bone , the tympanic membrane , the incus , and the malleus , preserving the facial nerve and the inner ear . type iii resections remove , in addition to the those structures removed in type ii resections , the distal facial nerve and fallopian canal , the mastoid tip , the styloid process , and the stylomastoid foramen . the type iv resection consists of the removal of only the mastoid tip and the inferior portion of the tympanic bone . when the techniques of lateral temporal bone resection are used appropriately , adequate surgical treatment of patients with selected advanced and recurrent malignant tumors of the external ear , the periauricular skin , and the parotid is possible with low morbidity and a high probability of local regional control . 
cervical lymph nodes from an unknown primary tumor in 190 patients . over 10 years , 475 patients with isolated lateral neck masses were evaluated : 190 with lymph nodes from an unknown primary tumor ( lnup ) , 188 with neck lymphomas , 78 with benign tumors , 10 with sarcomas , and 9 with chemodectomas . this study focused on the patients with lnup . only 86 patients were treated with surgery ( plus radiotherapy ) . other patients were treated with radiotherapy ( 84 ) or chemotherapy ( 13 ) or had no treatment ( 7 ) . for the overall population , failures in the neck occurred in 51 % of the patients and distant metastases in 27 % , while primary tumors appeared in 16 % . survival rates at 3 , 5 , and 10 years were 27 % , 19 % , and 7 % , respectively , for the overall population and 45 % , 35 % , and 19 % , respectively , for the surgical group . the diagnosis and therapeutic approach had a direct effect on neck control ; failure in the neck occurred in 7 of 47 patients ( 15 % ) when fine needle aspiration and radical neck dissection with radiotherapy were performed , in 5 of 12 patients ( 42 % ) when fine needle aspiration and modified neck dissection with radiotherapy were used , in 5 of 12 patients ( 42 % ) when adenectomy diagnosis and radiotherapy treatment were performed , and in 6 of 11 patients ( 54 % ) when diagnosis by incisional biopsy was performed prior to admission , despite subsequent radical neck dissection and radiotherapy treatment . in our opinion , panendoscopy and fine needle aspiration should be the first-line diagnostic approach . when cytologic diagnosis proves impossible , the second-line approach must consist of cervical exploration with frozen section examination and excisional biopsy , followed by immediate appropriate treatment . in cases of lnup , radical neck dissection seems to be preferable . 
parascapular free flaps for head and neck reconstruction . we report our experience with single-stage , primary reconstruction of the head and neck in 29 consecutive patients using parascapular free flaps . the commonest indications were for craniofacial defects ( 9 ) , oropharyngeal soft tissue defects ( 10 ) , and combined mandibular and soft tissue losses ( 4 ) . ablative surgery was performed for squamous carcinoma ( 22 ) , melanoma ( 2 ) , and malignant fibrous histiocytoma ( 2 ) . seven patients died of recurrent disease during a 3 1/2 year follow-up . seven patients are alive with recurrence . flap complications included total loss ( 2 ) due to unsalvageable microvascular thrombosis , wound breakdown with oropharyngeal fistula ( 2 ) , mandibular osteomyelitis ( 1 ) , trismus ( 2 ) , neck contracture ( 1 ) , and donor site wound dehiscence ( 1 ) . the overall success of this reconstruction was 93 % . primary wound healing was the general rule with lower morbidity than with other reconstructive techniques . the flap is thin , pliable , and conforms well to three-dimensional defects . the lateral border of the scapula can be incorporated on the same vascular pedicle for single-stage mandibular reconstruction . no muscle is sacrificed , and the posterior donor defect is an added advantage . the parascapular flap is our first choice for reconstruction of major defects in the head and neck . 
isoenzymes of aldehyde dehydrogenase in human lymphocytes . the types of isozymes of aldehyde dehydrogenase ( aldh ) present in human lymphocytes has been investigated using isoelectric focusing of polyacrylamide gels followed by substrate-specific staining . lymphocytes obtained from most individuals were found to contain both types i and ii aldh . this group of ' typical ' individuals reported that they did not develop marked facial flushing or rapid heart rate after drinking alcohol nor did they develop an erythema to cutaneously applied ethanol . lymphocytes obtained from ' atypical ' individuals who do suffer from alcohol-induced flushing and rapid heart rate and who developed erythema to cutaneous ethanol displayed type ii , but not type i , aldh . lymphocytes thus appear to be an easily accessible and suitable tissue for determining type i aldh phenotype . 
low-dose almitrine bismesylate enhances hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction in closed-chest dogs . the effect of almitrine bismesylate on the hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstrictor response was studied in six closed-chest dogs anesthetized with pentobarbital and paralyzed with pancuronium . the right lung was ventilated continuously with 100 % o2 ; the left lung was ventilated either with 100 % o2 ( " hyperoxia " ) or with an hypoxic gas mixture ( " hypoxia " : end-tidal oxygen tension = 60.3 + / - 0.6 mm hg ) . on two consecutive days , each dog received either almitrine ( vectarion , servier lab ) or malic acid . consecutive almitrine doses of 0.003 , 0.03 , 0.3 , and 3.0 micrograms.kg-1 . min-1 , or the equivalent volumes of malic acid without almitrine , were administered intravenously as a constant peripheral infusion for 15 min . percent blood flow to each lung was calculated based on a variation of the traditional shunt equation . the change in percent left lung blood flow ( delta % ql-va ) increased significantly between the hypoxia-no drug and the hypoxia-almitrine ( 3.0 micrograms.kg-1 . min-1 ) phase . no significant changes occurred during the other almitrine doses or the respective malic acid control phases . the change in arterial oxygen tension ( delta pao2 ) also increased significantly between the hypoxia-no drug and the hypoxia-almitrine ( 3.0 micrograms.kg-1 . min-1 ) phase . no significant changes occurred during the other almitrine doses or the respective malic acid control phases . it is concluded that in dogs low-dose almitrine enhances hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction and that this enhancement is dose-related . 
the " natural history " of segmental wall motion abnormalities in patients undergoing noncardiac surgery . s.p.i. research group . intraoperative segmental wall motion abnormalities ( swma ) detected by transesophageal echocardiography ( tee ) are sensitive , but not always specific , markers of myocardial ischemia . to determine their incidence , characteristics , and relation to postoperative cardiac morbidity , we continuously recorded the left ventricular short-axis view and 12-lead ecg in 156 high-risk patients undergoing non-cardiac surgery . monitoring was clinically blinded . wall motion was scored at predefined clinical , hemodynamic , and ecg events and at periodic intervals ( 26 + / - 11 samples per patient ) . we detected 44 episodes of new or worsened swma in 32 patients ( 20 % ) . the severity of most episodes was limited to severe hypokinesis ( 24/44 , 55 % ) followed by akinesis ( 16/44 , 36 % ) and dyskinesis ( 4/44 , 9 % ) . the remaining 124 patients had normal wall motion or only mild hypokinesis ( 56/156 , 36 % ) or chronic swma ( 68/156 , 44 % ) . the incidence of new swma did not differ for patients with known coronary artery disease ( cad ) and those with cardiac risk factors only ( 22 % vs. 19 % , p = not significant ) , although cad patients had a significantly greater incidence of chronic swma ( 62 % vs. 41 % , p = 0.02 ) . the incidence of new or worsened swma was significantly greater during aortic vascular surgery ( 38 % vs. 17 % , p = 0.05 ) . approximately 40 % of all new tee changes occurred in the absence of either an apparent clinical event or a significant change in systolic blood pressure or heart rate . ten patients had new or worsened swma persisting until the end of surgery , 8 with new akinesis , only 1 developing myocardial infarction . the distribution of new or worsened swma and significant intraoperative st-t changes ( n = 19 ) in this cohort was discordant : temporal overlap between modalities was present in only 5 patients . major cardiac complications occurred in 5 patients ( 3.2 % ) , all of whom underwent peripheral vascularization . all patients with cardiac complications and new or worsened swma also had intraoperative or early postoperative st-t changes . we conclude that : 1 ) continuous tee recording with offline analysis in this high-risk group of patients revealed a relatively low incidence of new or worsened swma ( 20 % ) , most episodes of which were characterized by severe hypokinesis ( 55 % ) ; 2 ) episodes were more common in patients undergoing aortic vascular surgery ; 3 ) approximately 40 % of episodes were unaccompanied by clinical events or significant hemodynamic changes ; 4 ) episodes were poorly correlated with postoperative cardiac complications ; and 5 ) the discordant relation between tee and ecg changes observed here necessitates careful monitoring of the ecg when tee is used clinically . 
hormonal-metabolic stress responses in neonates undergoing cardiac surgery . hormonal and metabolic responses were measured in 15 neonates who underwent repair of complex congenital heart defects during a standardized anesthetic protocol . four of the 15 neonates died postoperatively in the intensive care unit . analysis of arterial plasma samples obtained before , during , and 24 h after surgery showed that plasma epinephrine , norepinephrine , cortisol , glucagon , and beta endorphin increased in all patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . insulin levels increased only at the end of surgery but remained elevated for 24 h postoperatively ( p less than 0.02 ) . intraoperative metabolic changes were characterized by hyperglycemia and lactic acidemia that persisted postoperatively . this pattern of neonatal stress responses is distinct from and more extreme than that seen in adult cardiac surgical patients . the four neonates who died postoperatively tended to have higher stress responses intra - and postoperatively despite having been indistinguishable from survivors by the usual clinical and hemodynamic criteria . these preliminary results suggest that neonatal hormonal and metabolic responses to cardiac surgical operations in neonates are extreme and are associated with a high hospital mortality rate . 
electrocardiographic abnormalities in cerebrovascular accidents . the electrocardiographic abnormalities found in 100 patients with acute cerebrovascular disease and previously normal hearts are described . the abnormalities were more often seen in patients with intracerebral and subarachnoid hemorrhages . the most common changes were q-tc prolongation and st segment and t wave abnormalities . the mechanisms of these electrocardiographic abnormalities appear to be multiple . 
a hepatocellular carcinoma of massive arterioportal shunts without tumor stain treated with cddp two-route chemotherapy -- a case report . massive arterioportal shunts without tumor vessels or tumor stain are sometimes encountered in advanced cases of liver cirrhosis . massive arterioportal shunts without tumor stain that responded well to intensive chemotherapy with cis-diamminedichloroplatinum ii are reported . 
intravascular laser therapy of acute myocardial infarction . the efficacy of a new method of treatment , endovascular blood irradiation with he-ne laser , developed by the authors , was studied in 295 patients with primary acute transmural myocardial infarction ( mi ) . twenty-four-hour holter monitoring findings before and after laser irradiation suggested the possibility of preventing sudden death in the acute period of mi owing to the high anti-arrhythmic efficacy of the method with respect to high-grade ventricular arrhythmias . precodial ecg mapping and serial determination of blood enzyme activities ( cpk and mb-cpk ) showed that irradiation performed within the first hours of mi development contributed to effective limitation of the infarction area and restricted the spread of the area of myocardial ischemic damage . 
a comparative trial of three agents in the treatment of acute migraine headache . study objectives : a study was conducted to evaluate the relative efficacy of three non-narcotic agents , chloropromazine , lidocaine , and dihydroergotamine , in the treatment of migraine headache in an emergency department setting . design : the trial was randomized and single blinded . setting : the study was conducted in two university-affiliated eds . type of participants : all patients had an isolated diagnosis of common or classic migraine . interventions : patients were pretreated with 500 ml ( iv ) normal saline before randomization . study drugs as administered were dihydroergotamine 1 mg iv repeated after 30 minutes if the initial response was inadequate ; lidocaine 50 mg iv at 20-minute intervals to a maximum total dose of 150 mg as required ; or chloropromazine 12.5 mg iv repeated at 20-minute intervals to a total maximum dose of 37.5 mg as required . patients were asked to grade headache severity on a ten-point scale before and one hour after the initiation of therapy . follow-up by phone was sought the following day . measurements and main results : of 76 patients completing the trial , 24 were randomized to receive chloropromazine , 26 to receive dihydroergotamine , and 26 to receive lidocaine . reduction in mean headache intensity was significantly better among those treated with chloropromazine ( p less than .005 ) . persistent headache relief was experienced by 16 of the chloropromazine-treated patients ( 88.9 % ) contacted at 12 to 24 hours follow-up compared with ten of the dihydroergotamine-treated patients ( 52.6 % ) and five of the lidocaine-treated group ( 29.4 % ) . conclusion : the relative effectiveness of these three antimigraine therapies appears to favor chloropromazine in measures of headache relief , incidence of headache rebound , and patient satisfaction with therapy . 
an evaluation of cocaine-induced chest pain study objective : to determine if enzymatic evidence of acute myocardial injury is present in patients complaining of chest pain after cocaine use when the ecg is normal or nondiagnostic . design : serial ecg and creatinine kinase ( ck ) and ck isoenzymes ( ck-iso ) determinations were performed at time of emergency department presentation and every six hours over 12 hours on individuals complaining of chest pain within six hours of last cocaine use . setting : ed of an urban tertiary care center . type of participants : forty-two individuals with a mean age of 28.5 years . interventions : patients with positive ck-isos were admitted immediately to formally rule out myocardial infarction . patients developing ecg changes during observation period also were admitted even if ck-isos were normal . patients with unchanged ecgs and normal ck-isos were discharged after 12 hours of observation . results : eight patients ( 19 % ) had elevated ck and ck-iso values at presentation . two of these patients had elevated values on three sequential determinations and were believed to have sustained acute myocardial infarction . six patients had elevated ck and ck-isos at presentation only . ecgs remained normal or nondiagnostic in all patients . conclusions : enzymatic evidence of acute myocardial injury may occur in patients who develop chest pain after cocaine use and have normal or nondiagnostic ecgs . this injury may reflect acute infarction or transient ischemia . single or serial normal or nondiagnostic ecgs do not rule out ischemia or injury in this group of patients . 
treatment of moderate-to-severe hypothermia in an urban setting . study objectives : to study the treatment of moderate-to-severe hypothermia using a combination of core rewarming techniques . design : a prospective study . setting : the emergency department of an urban , community hospital . type of patients : sixteen patients who presented with accidental hypothermia with a core temperature of less than 32 c. interventions : all patients were treated with warmed iv fluids either through central or peripheral iv lines and heated aerosol masks . measurements and main results : the patients had a mean rewarming rate of 1.16 c/hr ; all survived . the majority were chronic alcoholic patients who presented with multiple medical conditions that required hospitalization . conclusion : all patients recovered with this method of core rewarming . 
emergency department diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy . study objectives : to assess the accuracy of the history and physical examination as compared to the addition of serum progesterone screening for ectopic pregnancy in women presenting to the emergency department . design : prospective , consecutive case series , n = 2,157 . setting : ed of the regional medical center at memphis , a publicly subsidized , 450-bed acute care hospital staffed by residents and faculty of the university of tennessee , memphis . type of participants : all ed patients with a positive urine pregnancy test treated between january 1 and december 31 , 1988 . interventions : screening history , physical examination , and serum progesterone ( p ) and quantitative human chorionic gonadotropin ( hcg ) titer . measurements : all discharged patients were given follow-up appointments within two weeks ; those found to have a p less than 25 ng/ml were called to return for repeat hcg and transvaginal ultrasound . main results : one hundred sixty-one of 2,157 patients ( 7.5 % ) with a positive urine pregnancy test were found to have an ectopic pregnancy . all but five had a p of less than 25 ng/ml ( sensitivity , 97 % ) ; four of these were admitted for immediate surgery because of symptoms . overall , the ed physician detected 89 of 161 ectopics ( 55.3 % ) on initial presentation , 53 ( 60 % ) of which were ruptured at the time of surgery . seventy-two patients ( 44.7 % ) who were discharged but later found to have an ectopic pregnancy had benign clinical presentations , including 41 with vaginal bleeding . there were no statistically significant differences in the presenting symptoms of patients with unruptured ectopics compared with normal intrauterine pregnancies . all but one of the 72 discharged patients were noted the following day to have a progesterone of less than 25 ng/ml and contacted to return . eight of these were found to have a ruptured ectopic at the time of surgery . only 91 of 161 patients ( 56.5 % ) with ectopic pregnancy acknowledged one or more clinical risk factors on follow-up questioning . conclusion : the standard history and physical examination , including those performed by gynecologic specialists , are insufficiently sensitive for early detection of unruptured ectopic pregnancy . eds with a high incidence of ectopic pregnancy should strongly consider implementation of a universal progesterone screening program to decrease unnecessary patient morbidity and the risk of mortality from undiagnosed ectopic pregnancy . 
clinical evaluation of an acetaminophen meter for the rapid diagnosis of acetaminophen intoxication . study objectives : to test the accuracy of a newly developed meter that determines serum acetaminophen concentration after a 30-second analysis of one drop of whole blood . design : sixty-six blood samples from patients with known or suspected drug overdose were analyzed for the presence of acetaminophen . in all cases determination of serum acetaminophen concentration was performed simultaneously with the meter and by a reference laboratory . setting : eligible patients were those who presented during a nine-month period to the emergency departments of two tertiary care hospitals ( including a pediatric hospital ) . results : thirty-one specimens had a laboratory-confirmed detectable acetaminophen concentration . the meter identified these toxic specimens in all cases ; there were no false-negatives ( sensitivity , 100 % ) . among the 35 specimens not containing acetaminophen , the meter invariably confirmed a nondetectable serum acetaminophen concentration ( specificity , 100 % ) . acetaminophen measurements by the meter correlated strongly with laboratory determinations ( r = .985 , p less than .001 ) . repeated testing of one specimen documented the precision and reproducibility of the meter 's analysis ; mean coefficient of variation was .08 in measuring toxic acetaminophen concentrations . drug coingestion had no significant effect on the accuracy of the meter . instrument accuracy was maintained after more than 100 uses without recalibration . conclusions : this meter identifies the possibility of rapid and accurate determinations of serum acetaminophen concentration . the instrument is ideally suited for patients with acetaminophen poisoning in whom expeditious and appropriate administration of antidotal therapy is desired . 
predicting the severity of cocaine-associated rhabdomyolysis . study objectives : the syndrome of rhabdomyolysis associated with cocaine use has been recently described , but the incidence , severity , risk factors , and complications are unknown . this study sought to describe the spectrum of the syndrome and identify clinical features of patients at risk . design : retrospective case series with analysis of common clinical features . setting : medical emergency department of an urban teaching hospital serving an indigent population . types of participants : ed patients with acute cocaine intoxication and a serum creatine kinase ( all mm ) of more than 500 u/l ( 8.3 ukat/l ) who were admitted for in-hospital management . measurements and main results : twenty-nine patients , representing 5 % of cocaine-related patient visits , were identified over 20 months . patients were divided into three groups : mild , characterized by anxiety , tachycardia , diaphoresis , dyspnea , or chest pain ; moderate , characterized by delirium , agitation , fever , leukocytosis , or an elevated serum creatinine ; and severe , characterized by seizure , coma , hypotension , arrhythmia , or cardiac arrest . there was a significant association between the rating system for level of intoxication and the severity of rhabdomyolysis and its complications ( p less than .01 ) . patients at highest risk for complications of rhabdomyolysis were those in the moderate or severe groups . conclusion : this classification system may be useful for the management of patients with acute cocaine intoxication , predicting those patients in whom aggressive therapy should be initiated in the ed to minimize the complications of rhabdomyolysis . 
transcranial doppler determination of cerebral perfusion in patients undergoing cpr : methodology and preliminary findings . study objectives : to correlate cerebral arterial blood velocity measurements as determined by transcranial doppler ultrasound with various resuscitation maneuvers performed in an uncontrolled manner in a series of cardiac arrest patients undergoing standard resuscitation . type of participants : any patient undergoing resuscitation for a nontraumatic cardiac arrest was eligible for the study . interventions : resuscitation was carried out while flow velocities were monitored in various intracranial arteries by transcranial doppler ultrasound . vessel identification was based on the angle and depth of insonation . measurements and main results : the internal carotid artery was located more consistently than either middle cerebral or ophthalmic arteries and provided superior waveforms for analysis . alterations in flow velocity were noted and correlated to various therapeutic interventions . flow velocities were 70 % of normal during the early phase of resuscitation but deteriorated over time until there was no evidence of net forward flow . even early in cpr , flow was demonstrated only during systole . conclusion : transcranial doppler ultrasound appears to be a potentially promising means of determining cerebral flow in patients undergoing cpr . 
effect of recombinant hirudin , a specific inhibitor of thrombin , on endotoxin-induced intravascular coagulation and acute lung injury in pigs . we hypothesized that thrombin activation may play a prominent role in endotoxin-induced secondary organ failure , such as acute lung injury . to test this hypothesis , we administered a thrombin-specific inhibitor , recombinant hirudin , in endotoxemic pigs . the pigs were anesthetized , mechanically ventilated , and prepared with swan-ganz and extravascular lung water ( evlw ) catheters . a total of 18 randomly selected animals received a pretreatment of 1,000 u/kg of hirudin , followed by a continuous infusion over 6 h of 500 u/kg/h given simultaneously with the infusion of 10 micrograms/kg/h of salmonella abortus equi endotoxin . another 18 animals received a continuous infusion over 6 h of endotoxin but did not receive hirudin . all animals were fluid resuscitated with 17 ml/kg/h of saline for the duration of the experiment . data are expressed as the mean ( 95 % confidence interval ) . hirudin reduced the endotoxin-induced consumption of plasma fibrinogen from -110 ( -138 to -82 ) mg/100 ml to -39 ( -67 to -12 ) mg/100 ml ( p = 0.0001 ) and endotoxin-induced increases in the soluble fibrin in plasma from 434 ( 369 to 499 ) ng/ml to 236 ( 171 to 300 ) ng/ml ( p = 0.0002 ) . these data suggest an effective inhibition of the endotoxin-generated thrombin by hirudin . furthermore , hirudin significantly reduced endotoxin-induced increases in pulmonary vascular resistance from 32 ( 27 to 37 ) kdyn x s x cm-5 x kg to 20 ( 15 to 25 ) kdyn x s x cm-5 x kg ( p = 0.0015 ) and increases in evlw from 15.4 ( 13.2 to 17.6 ) ml/kg to 12.2 ( 10.0 to 14.4 ) ml/kg ( p = 0.0299 ) . 
doppler assessment of pulmonary hypertension induced by hypoxic breathing in subjects susceptible to high altitude pulmonary edema . to verify the abnormal pulmonary vascular response implicated in the pathogenesis of high altitude pulmonary edema ( hape ) , we examined the hemodynamic responses to hypoxia in hape-susceptible subjects ( hape-s ) by means of both right heart catheterization and pulsed doppler echocardiography . the hape-s were seven men and one woman with a history of hape . six healthy volunteers who had repeated experiences of mountain climbing without any history of altitude-related problems served as control subjects . the hape-s showed much greater increase in pulmonary vascular resistance ( pvr ) than did the control subjects , resulting in a much higher level of pulmonary arterial pressure ( ppa ) under acute hypoxia both of 15 % o2 and 10 % o2 . we then evaluated the usefulness of pulsed doppler echocardiography in the prediction of pulmonary hypertension . acceleration time ( act ) and right ventricular ejection time ( rvet ) were measured from the flow velocity pattern in the right ventricular outflow tract . the ratio of act to rvet was correlated to invasively determined mean ppa ( ppa ) and pvr . the results were as follows : ( 1 ) act/rvet = 0.52 to 0.0047 ( ppa ) , r = -0.93 , see = 0.017 , p less than 0.001 ( hape-s ) ; ( 2 ) act/rvet = 0.55 to 0.0055 ( ppa ) , r = -0.70 , see = 0.030 , p less than 0.001 ( hape-s ) ; ( 4 ) act/rvet = 0.52 to 0.00077 ( pvr ) , r = -0.91 , see = 0.016 , p less than 0.001 ( control subjects ) . we conclude that hape-s have a constitutional abnormality in the pulmonary vascular response to hypoxia , which is a possible causative factor of hape , and that pulsed doppler echocardiography may be supportive to assess the pulmonary vascular pressor response in the hape-s . 
endogenous opioids modulate the increase in ventilatory output and dyspnea during severe acute bronchoconstriction . the aim of this study was to evaluate whether endogenous opioids are involved in the regulation of breathing pattern and respiratory drive during bronchoconstriction induced by methacholine ( mch ) . we studied six male asymptomatic asthmatics 18 to 35 yr of age . in a preliminary study we determined the concentration of mch causing a 60 % fall in fev1 ( pc60 fev1 ) . on two subsequent days , we measured breathing pattern , dyspnea sensation ( borg scale ) , mouth occlusion pressure ( p0 .1 ) , and fev1 before and 10 min after an intravenous injection of either naloxone ( 0.1 mg/kg ) or saline according to a randomized double-blind crossover design . a mch concentration equal to the pc60 fev1 was then inhaled , and measurements were repeated 5 min later . neither placebo nor naloxone affected baseline breathing pattern , p0 .1 , and fev1 . naloxone pretreatment did not influence airway response to mch ; the mean percent fall in fev1 was 65.9 + / - 1.3 and 64.7 + / - 1.2 % ( mean + / - 1 se ) on the placebo day and the naloxone day , respectively . after mch inhalation no significant changes in ve , vt , and breathing frequency occurred when patients received placebo . however , p0 .1 increased from 1.48 + / - 0.17 to 3.43 + / - 0.70 cm h2o ( p less than 0.05 ) , and vt/ti fell from 0.66 + / - 0.08 to 0.52 + / - 0.04 l/s ( p less than 0.05 ) . naloxone pretreatment resulted in an increase in breathing frequency ( from 18.2 + / - 1.7 to 22.8 + / - 2.6 breaths/min ; p less than 0.05 ) and vt/ti ( from 0.58 + / - 0.06 to 0.74 + / - 0.05 l/s ; p less than 0.05 ) after mch . 
timing of corticosteroid treatment . effect of lung lymph dynamics in air injury in awake sheep . in paired experiments , we studied the effects of high-dose methylprednisolone on the acute pulmonary injury caused by 4 h of venous air embolization in 19 chronically instrumented , unanesthetized sheep with lung lymph fistulas . we compared the effect of methylprednisolone ( 30 mg/kg intravenous bolus ) given before embolization , early ( 1 h ) in the course of embolization , late ( 3 h ) in the course of embolization , or after embolization ( at the beginning of the recovery period ) . we measured pulmonary hemodynamics and lymph dynamics . in six sheep we also fixed lung tissue for semiquantitative histology , and in some we measured leukocyte concentrations in blood and in pulmonary lymph . methylprednisolone did not significantly affect pulmonary hemodynamics but it largely prevented lung injury when it was given before embolization . it also lessened the degree of lung injury when it was given during embolization , although this effect became less marked as treatment was delayed . methylprednisolone had no effect on lung injury when given after embolization was completed ( 4 h ) . we found fewer leukocytes attached to air emboli and fewer endothelial cell gaps in the lungs of sheep given methylprednisolone as prophylaxis . leukocyte counts were lower in lung lymph and higher in the circulating blood of methylprednisolone-treated sheep . we conclude that methylprednisolone has a preventive effect on air embolism lung injury , such that its effect is greater when given earlier during the development of injury . 
central airway obstruction due to cytomegalovirus-induced necrotizing tracheitis in a patient with aids . cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infection in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) can present as either disseminated disease , pneumonitis , retinitis , gastroenteritis , neuropathy , or a subclinical infection . we report a patient whose initial manifestation of cmv infection was severe central airways obstruction due to necrotizing tracheitis . at bronchoscopy , the lesion appeared deeply ulcerated , distinctly different from previously described airway lesions in patients with aids . mucosal biopsies showed characteristic intranuclear and intracytoplasmic inclusions and cultures yielded only cmv . the patient responded partially to ganciclovir , steroids , and antibiotics against suspected anaerobic superinfection but died as a result of central nervous system disease believed due to toxoplasmosis or lymphoma . cmv infection of the upper airway should be considered in the patient with aids presenting with atypical cough or stridor and ulcerated endobronchial lesions . 
ciliary motility in two patients with yellow nail syndrome and recurrent sinopulmonary infections . the yellow nail syndrome ( yns ) is described as a combination of yellow nails , chronic lymphedema , pleural effusions , and recurrent sinopulmonary infections , but all these features need not be present for the diagnosis . the mechanism that renders patients with this syndrome susceptible to respiratory infections is not known . to determine whether abnormal ciliary motility is a predisposing factor , in vitro ciliary beat frequency ( cbf ) was measured in two patients with yns and recurrent respiratory infections . in each case , the cbf was within normal limits ( 12 hz ) . these data suggest that abnormal ciliary motility is not a pathophysiologic mechanism of recurrent sinopulmonary infections in yns . 
a prospective assessment of the garren-edwards gastric bubble and bariatric surgery in the treatment of morbid obesity . morbid obesity is a serious medical hazard , and effective alternatives to surgery have been unsuccessful . in 1985 , the garren-edwards gastric bubble ( gegb ) was offered as an adjunct to dietary and behavioral therapy for weight loss treatment . the safety and efficacy of the gegb were compared with bariatric surgery , the current standard for the treatment of morbid obesity . fifty-seven patients received gegb and 77 underwent bariatric surgery . gegb patients were divided into two groups : those who attended group therapy and those who did not . this study showed that bariatric surgery was far more effective in reducing excess body weight during a 12-month period compared with the gegb plus group therapy and the gegb alone . the morbidity from bariatric surgery was greater than in the gegb-treated groups , while the cost for uncomplicated cases for a year 's treatment was comparable . it is concluded that the gegb does not offer an effective alternative to bariatric surgery in the treatment of morbid obesity . 
spontaneous splenic rupture following infectious mononucleosis . four cases of spontaneous splenic rupture after infectious mononucleosis ( im ) have been treated at this institution since 1978 . the condition is rare , occurring in 0.1-0 .5 per cent of patients with proven infectious mononucleosis . splenectomy is considered the treatment of choice for these patients . however , because recent trends in the management of traumatic splenic rupture are moving towards nonoperative treatment with selected patients , a similar approach has been considered for the patient with spontaneous splenic rupture following im . the major reason for avoiding splenectomy is the increased incidence of sepsis in splenectomized patients . yet , splenic rupture is accompanied by hemorrhage and the risks associated with blood transfusion for ongoing hemorrhage are of similar magnitude as those of sepsis following splenectomy . in addition , the grossly abnormal spleens seen at operation tend to include large , contained hematomas that may also be prone to rupture . therefore , operative management still appears to be the preferred treatment for spontaneous splenic rupture following im . splenectomy is curative , safe , and obviates the need for transfusion , extended hospitalization , and activity restriction . 
comparison of ulcer surgery at a veterans administration and university hospital . we compared the patient populations and outcome of surgery for peptic ulcer disease in 81 patients at a veterans administration hospital ( ovah ) and 97 patients at an affiliated university hospital ( unh ) . the surgeons and choice of operation were comparable at both facilities . patients were similar with respect to severity of ulcer disease , percentage of elderly patients and distribution of comorbid conditions . there were significantly more female patients ( 45 % vs 2 % , p less than 0.05 ) , patients less than 40 years old ( 22 % vs 6 % , p less than 0.05 ) , and patients with gastric ulcers ( 27 % vs 12 % , p less than 0.05 ) at unh . alcoholism was more prevalent at ovah ( 57 % vs 22 % , p less than 0.05 ) . postoperative morbidity and mortality rates were 27 per cent and 14 per cent at ovah and 25 per cent and 16 per cent at unh . these data suggest that quality of care for surgical therapy of ulcer disease at a va hospital is comparable to its tertiary care affiliate with a similar patient population . 
toxic shock syndrome after inguinal hernia repair . report of a case with patient survival . a 40-year-old man developed fulminant multisystem failure several days after elective repair of an inguinal hernia . toxic shock syndrome ( tss ) was diagnosed . there was , however , no evidence of wound infection at the time of multisystem failure . only later in his hospital course did the wound drain . staphylococcus aureus was cultured from the wound and was the presumed etiologic agent in the patient 's life-threatening illness . the patient recovered fully with supportive care , antibiotics , and surgical debridement of the inguinal hernia site . this case is discussed in the context of existing literature on the toxic shock syndrome . the site of infection is typically nonsuppurative , but the systemic manifestations are typically life threatening . the responsible organism is commonly believed to be a strain of s. aureus that expresses a toxin ( tss toxin-1 ) that effects multisystem failure , but which also diminishes the local inflammatory response and explains the benign appearance of the wound . although this is a rare clinical entity , elective surgical procedures complicated by fatal tss have been reported . surgeons should understand this disease and the management necessary to avert mortality . 
a comparison of parallel versus perpendicular placement of retention sutures in abdominal wound closure . a new technique for placement of retention sutures is described . twenty-five rats underwent midline laparotomy incision . the control group was closed with traditional placement of through-and-through retention sutures placed in a perpendicular direction to the wound . the experimental group was closed with retention sutures placed in a parallel direction to the wound as described below . wound bursting strength was significantly ( p less than 0.001 ) greater at one to five days in the experimental group compared with the control animals . in addition , inflammatory reaction and pressure necrosis were greater in the control group . it appears that parallel placement of sutures has less of a tendency to cut through tissue when subjected to the distracting forces on a midline wound . 
urgent management of a giant scrotal hernia . an unusual case of giant scrotal hernia is presented . hernias of this magnitude are extremely rare , even in underdeveloped countries , and their repair is challenging to the surgeon and stressful to the patient . only a few case reports on the use of pneumoperitoneum prior to herniorrhaphy have been published ; however , our patient 's accompanying complications of diabetes mellitus and gastrointestinal symptoms precluded the use of pneumoperitoneum . the emergency management , including the expansion of the abdominal cavity with prosthesis , the ensuing postoperative complications , and the patient outcome , are discussed . 
lung lobe torsion following lobectomy . three cases of postoperative pulmonary lobe torsion were reported . two of three showed hemorrhagic infarctions , and as a result underwent rethoracotomies and removal of the affected lobes . from these experiences , we consider that computed tomography ( ct ) and bronchofiberscopic examinations are useful for the diagnosis of advanced torsion . 
clinical prediction rule for pulmonary infiltrates objective : to derive and validate a clinical rule for predicting pneumonic infiltrates in adult patients with acute respiratory illness . design : prevalence studies in three settings . setting : emergency departments of the university of illinois hospital at chicago , the university of nebraska medical center at omaha , and the medical college of virginia at richmond . patients : symptoms , signs , comorbidity data , and chest roentgenogram results were recorded for 1134 patients from illinois ( the derivation set ) , 150 patients from nebraska , and 152 patients from virginia ( the validation sets ) . all patients presented to the emergency department and had a chest roentgenogram to evaluate fever or respiratory complaints . measurements and main results : within the training set , temperature greater than 37.8 degrees c , pulse greater than 100 beats/min , rales , decreased breath sounds , and the absence of asthma were identified as significant predictors of radiographically proved pneumonia in a stepwise logistic regression model ( p = 0.001 ) . the logistic rule discriminated patients with and without pneumonia in the training set with a receiver operating characteristic ( roc ) area of 0.82 . in the validation sets , the rule discriminated pneumonia and nonpneumonia with roc areas of 0.82 and 0.76 after adjusting for differences in disease prevalence ( p greater than 0.2 compared with the training set ) . the predicted probability of having pneumonia for patients with different clinical findings corresponded closely with the incidence of pneumonia among patients with such findings in the three settings . conclusions : among adults presenting with acute respiratory illness , a prediction rule based on clinical findings accurately discriminated patients with and without radiographic pneumonia , and was used in two other samples of patients without significant decrement in discriminatory ability . this rule can be used by physicians to develop more effective strategies for detecting pneumonia and for helping to determine the need for radiologic study among patients with acute respiratory disease . 
a case of unilateral posterior ischemic optic neuropathy after radical neck dissection . we present a case of unilateral posterior ischemic optic neuropathy after bilateral radical neck dissection . etiologic factors are discussed . 
teflon versus thyroplasty versus nerve transfer : a comparison . surgical rehabilitation of the paralyzed larynx is currently performed by teflon injection , thyroplasty , and reinnervation techniques . proponents of the two newer techniques maintain that they are preferred to teflon injection because superior phonatory quality is achievable . this paper was written in an attempt to dissect the issues regarding this question . teflon remains the quickest and least expensive procedure , but further experience with stroboscopic and other voice analyses reveals that the other procedures demonstrate some superiority in phonatory quality over teflon . in this author 's hands , the nerve transfer offers the best opportunity to achieve a normal phonatory voice . in addition , it is the only one of the three procedures that leaves the vocal cord entirely undisturbed -- important in the event one of the other two procedures becomes necessary . 
endoscopic laser arytenoidectomy revisited . arytenoidectomy is currently the most reliable method of treating patients with bilateral vocal cord paralysis . although both endoscopic and external approaches have been described , the endoscopic laser technique is more desirable because it requires no incision and allows for the immediate assessment of airway size . eleven patients with bilateral vocal cord paralysis treated by endoscopic laser arytenoidectomy were presented in 1984 . at that time , 10 of the 11 patients had been successfully decannulated . follow-up on that group of patients revealed that 7 of the 10 successfully treated patients remain decannulated with a good airway , although 2 of these patients required a revision procedure to excise a granuloma . one patient failed at 15 months and has failed two subsequent revision operations , and 2 patients have been lost to follow-up . since 1984 , 17 additional patients with bilateral vocal cord paralysis have been treated by the authors using the same endoscopic laser arytenoidectomy technique ; all have been successfully managed , with a minimum follow-up of 3 years . the technique of this operation will be reviewed . this study demonstrates the clinical usefulness of endoscopic laser arytenoidectomy in the treatment of bilateral vocal cord paralysis . 
laryngeal framework reconstruction with miniplates . defects of the laryngeal framework after trauma , cancer , and thyroplasty have been reconstructed with mini-reconstruction plates . six patients had miniplates used to repair the thyroid cartilage defect after type i thyroplasty to prevent lateralization of the silastic implant ; three patients had miniplates used after hemilaryngectomy to bridge the thyroid cartilage remnants , resulting in better deglutition after hemilaryngectomy ; and three patients had miniplates used to repair laryngeal fractures . the plates were tolerated well by the patients ; there were no major complications . rigid fixation using miniplates for laryngeal reconstruction has unique advantages over the use of wires . it offers the advantages of rigid and immediate stabilization with the ability to bridge large defects . it can be an alternative to existing techniques of laryngeal reconstruction . 
combined laryngeal framework medialization and reinnervation for unilateral vocal fold paralysis . the laryngeal framework-silastic implant technique has become an increasingly attractive alternative to teflon injection , particularly when there is fixation of the cricoarytenoid joint or the defect to be corrected is larger than usual ; but it does not restore ability to change tension in the vocal fold . unilateral vocal fold reinnervation can overcome this drawback and , when used in conjunction with surgical medialization , may offer return of function very close to normal . twenty-nine patients with unrecovered unilateral vocal fold paralysis and/or fixation of the cricoarytenoid joint have been managed by use of a silastic implant combined with unilateral vocal fold reinnervation with no complications . voice improvement has been assessed on preoperative and postoperative voice recordings . the combined surgical techniques for reinnervation and a modification of silastic implantation via the laryngeal framework approach are reported . 
immunohistochemical interpretation of early epithelial disorders of pyriform sinus . expression of cytokeratins ( cks ) was investigated immunohistochemically by use of monospecific monoclonal anti-ck antibodies in normal epithelia of pyriform sinus and epithelial lesions such as simple hyperplasia , different degrees of dysplasia , in situ carcinoma , and invasive carcinoma . in normal epithelium , strong expression of ck-19 was consistently observed only in the basal layer as basic ck , while expression of ck-13 showed a completely reverse pattern , being expressed only in suprabasal layers as stratification-related ck . characteristic changes in expression pattern of these two cks were observed in accordance with the degree of epithelial disorders and differentiation of carcinoma . cytokeratin 1 , as keratinization-associated ck , was observed only in keratinized cells of hyperplastic epithelia and well-differentiated carcinomas . these findings may be useful in evaluating epithelial disorders and classifying carcinomas more objectively , and may assist earlier detection of carcinoma when used with standard histologic techniques . 
cochlear implant flap complications . in a series of 52 patients who received cochlear implants , 4 patients suffered flap complications ( 7.7 % ) . the problems encountered involved the postauricular flap and were usually minor in nature . none required explantation as a direct result of these complications . flap ischemia in a patient with cogan 's syndrome and vasculitis , two cases of suture extrusion with one having exposure of the implant , and a case of receiver unit magnet extrusion repaired with a vascularized pericranial flap based upon temporalis muscle are presented . flap design in patients who have had postauricular incisions demands special consideration . principles useful for avoiding complications as well as their management are discussed . 
percutaneous pedestal in cochlear implantation . direct electrical connection between an external sound-processing device and intracochlear electrodes is accomplished via a percutaneous pedestal . patient pedestal complaints and experience have been recorded . pedestal problems have been classified into six classes , with class 0 indicating no problems and the severity of problem increasing in classes 1 through 4 . class 5 indicates pedestal trauma . no class 5 problems were encountered . at 48 months of experience , 53 % of patients were class 0 and 26 % were class 1 . the pedestal experience is detailed in the paper . the percutaneous pedestal has been found to be a well-tolerated , efficient system for information transfer in cochlear implant patients . 
posthypoxic glucose supplement reduces hypoxic-ischemic brain damage in the neonatal rat . we evaluated the effect of posthypoxic glucose supplement in a neonatal hypoxic-ischemic animal model . seven-day-old rats underwent bilateral ligation of the carotid arteries , followed by exposure to an 8 % oxygen atmosphere for 1 hour . the extent of hypoxic-ischemic brain damage was assessed histologically 72 hours later . glucose load immediately after the end of the hypoxic exposure reduced the volume of neocortical infarction to 37 % of the unsupplemented value , and attenuated ischemic damage in the striatum and the dentate gyrus . at the end of the hypoxic exposure , the brain level of glucose was 0.3 mmol/kg and the level of lactate 9 mmol/kg . glucose supplement produced a rapid rise in brain glucose level to 3 to 5 mmol/kg over the next 2 hours . lactate in both brain and plasma gradually fell toward the baseline level during the first hour of recovery . posthypoxic glucose supplement slightly retarded lactate restitution . at any period of this neonatal model , brain lactate levels did not exceed the toxic level , which is postulated to be responsible for cerebral infarction in adult ischemic models . these results illustrate the important role of glucose in the development of neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy and the fact that full cortical infarction can develop even if brain lactate levels are low . 
human central nervous system primitive neuroectodermal tumor expressing nerve growth factor receptors : chp707m . a primitive neuroectodermal tumor ( pnet ) presented as a cerebral hemispheric mass in a 33-year-old man . bone marrow metastases were discovered 11 months later . a cell line ( chp707m ) was derived from these metastases . in culture , the cells showed features of neuronal differentiation , forming short neurites and synthesizing low-molecular-weight neurofilament protein . northern blotting showed the tumor cells express nerve growth factor ( ngf ) receptor messenger rna , and fluorescence-activated cell-sorting demonstrated ngf receptors on the cell surface . western blotting showed chp707m ngf receptors are truncated . the receptors are functional ; they bind iodine 125-labeled mouse ngf with an affinity of 1.6 x 10 ( -9 ) m , and short-term treatment with ngf induces expression by the tumor cells of the proto-oncogene , c-fos . although chp707m is the first central nervous system pnet cell line proven to express ngf receptors , immunohistological survey of tissue sections prepared from human central nervous system pnets showed that 13 of 35 contained ngf receptor-positive tumor cells . thus , more than one-third of such tumors might be responsive to the effects of ngf . 
middle cerebral artery strokes causing homonymous hemianopia : positron emission tomography . eight patients were evaluated with 18f-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography between 3 and 30 days after isolated stroke involving the middle cerebral artery territory that caused homonymous hemianopia . diffuse hypometabolism was present throughout the damaged cerebral hemisphere , even in cortical areas not obviously ischemic by clinical examination or neuro-imaging . glucose metabolism in primary and association visual cortex of the damaged hemisphere was decreased by more than 47 % ( p less than 0.01 ) . metabolism in the undamaged hemisphere was less profoundly affected , but significant decrements were found in calcarine ( 40 % ; p less than 0.01 ) and lateral occipital cortex ( 35 % ; p less than 0.05 ) . 
relapse of infant botulism . we report on 3 infants who had relapse of infant botulism after apparent resolution of clinical symptoms . this group represented 5 % of the infants with confirmed infant botulism who were treated at our institution since 1976 . the exact cause for these relapses was unclear , but three potential mechanisms are examined . there were no historical , clinical , or electrophysiological predictors of relapse . although at the time of writing recovery from relapse appeared complete , close follow-up of patients recovering from a bout of infant botulism is necessary . 
meropenem pharmacokinetics and penetration into an inflammatory exudate . the pharmacokinetics and penetration into a cantharidine-induced inflammatory exudate of meropenem was studied in six volunteers following a single 1-g intravenous dose . concentrations in plasma , urine , and the inflammatory exudate were determined by a microbiological assay . the mean elimination half-life of meropenem in plasma was 1.1 h , with the concentration in plasma declining from a mean of 23.6 micrograms/ml at 1 h to 0.7 micrograms/ml at 6 h. the inflammatory fluid penetration was rapid ( time to maximum concentration of drug in serum , 0.75 h ) , and the penetration was 111 % . the recovery of meropenem in urine at 24 h was 65.4 % of the administered dose . 
richner-hanhart 's syndrome . electron microscopic study of the skin lesion . the plantar hyperkeratotic skin lesion in a case of richner-hanhart 's syndrome was investigated using ultrastructural examination . light microscopic examination showed remarkable hyperkeratosis and some aberrant keratinocytes with multiple nuclei . on ultrastructural examination , some abnormal structures were seen in the affected keratinocytes : aggregations of tonofilaments and intracytoplasmic inclusions . the inclusions were needle shaped and were considered to be " crystal ghosts , " presumably of tyrosine . the formation of tyrosine crystalline inclusions seems to be an important factor in the pathogenesis of the cutaneous lesions in richner-hanhart 's syndrome . 
acute gastroenteritis in infants under 6 months old . sixty two babies under the age of 6 months who were admitted with gastroenteritis completed a study of gradual refeeding compared with abrupt refeeding after a period of rehydration . there was no difference in the incidence of recurrence of diarrhoea due to lactose intolerance , effect on weight , or duration of hospital stay . twenty six babies ( 42 % ) had recurrence of diarrhoea after refeeding , all of whom settled with the introduction of a lactose free soya based formula . well nourished babies under 6 months of age with mild to moderately severe gastroenteritis can be fed immediately with full strength milk feeds after rehydration . the introduction of a lactose free soya based preparation may provide an alternative to repeated attempts at regrading with cows ' milk feeds in those patients with lactose intolerance . 
management of gastroenteritis . childhood gastroenteritis remains a common reason for admission to british paediatric units , although the severity of the disease appears to be diminishing in recent years . we studied 215 infants and children with gastroenteritis admitted consecutively to four paediatric units in south wales in order to determine the severity of the disease , the organisms isolated , the frequency of complications , and the adequacy of management before admission . stool pathogens were isolated in 125 ( 58 % ) patients ( viruses in 65 , bacteria in 30 , and protozoa in 19 , with multiple infection found in 11 ) . there was a low incidence of morbidity and complications , but prolonged diarrhoea ( postenteritis syndrome ) was present in 24 ( 11 % ) cases and 77 ( 36 % ) had received inappropriate treatment before admission . contemporary gastroenteritis is thus a relatively mild disease in the acute phase , but management before admission to hospital is often inadequate , and prolonged diarrhoea may be a feature in a considerable number of cases . 
latent sensitisation to respiratory syncytial virus during acute bronchiolitis and lung function after recovery . to determine whether latent sensitivity to respiratory syncytial virus antigen ( s ) occurs after infection , 27 infants with acute bronchiolitis were studied and compared with 15 hospital controls . blood was collected for whole blood challenge , and histamine release was measured by a high performance liquid chromatography technique with fluorometric detection . there was a significantly greater histamine release to respiratory syncytial virus antigen ( s ) in those with bronchiolitis than in controls , expressed either in amount ( median 154 nmol/l compared with 104 nmol/l ) or percentage release ( median 20 % compared with 3 % ) . there was a significant difference between index and control groups in terms of individual histamine responses . these findings strongly suggest that infants develop latent sensitivity to respiratory syncytial virus antigen ( s ) during the course of acute bronchiolitis . serial lung function tests were performed in 15 infants . all infants had abnormalities of lung function at some stage , but the small numbers of subjects precluded comparison between ' sensitised ' and ' non-sensitised ' infants . further study is indicated to define the relation of latent sensitisation and subsequent bronchial hyper-responsiveness after respiratory syncytial virus infection in infants . 
recurrent cyanotic episodes with severe arterial hypoxaemia and intrapulmonary shunting : a mechanism for sudden death the pathophysiology of recurrent cyanotic episodes has been investigated in 51 infants and children . episodes began at a median age of 7 weeks ( range 1 day to 22 months , 39 at less than 4 months ) . they were characterised by the rapidity of onset and progression of severe hypoxaemia with early loss of consciousness from cerebral hypoxia . the most common precipitating factor was a sudden naturally occurring stimulus from pain , fear , or anger . in uncontrolled trials , cyanotic episodes were reduced in frequency and severity by tetrabenazine ( n = 15 ) and additional inspired oxygen ( n = 10 ) . eight patients died suddenly and unexpectedly ( four during cyanotic episodes ) . twenty eight patients underwent physiological studies during cyanotic episodes . there was no evidence of seizure activity at the onset and although prolonged absence of inspiratory effort with continued expiratory efforts was common , breathing sometimes continued . episodes were not caused by upper airway obstruction and sometimes occurred during positive airway pressure ventilation . the rapidity of fall in arterial oxygen pressure and continued breathing suggested a right to left shunt of sudden onset . the results of contrast echocardiography and lung imaging studies confirmed that this was occurring within the lungs . these cyanotic episodes included both intrapulmonary shunting and prolonged expiratory apnoea . they are best explained by interactions between central sympathetic activity , brainstem control of respiration and vasomotor activity , reflexes arising from around and within the respiratory tract , and the matching of ventilation to perfusion in the lungs . they are a cause of sudden unexpected death in infancy and early childhood . 
pharmacokinetics of paracetamol after cardiac surgery . plasma concentration was measured after rectal and nasogastric administration of paracetamol 15 mg/kg to 28 febrile children aged between 9 days to 7 years who had undergone cardiac surgery . after equivalent doses , rectal administration in neonates and children on the first postoperative day was found to produce plasma concentrations below the therapeutic range with higher concentrations after nasogastric paracetamol on the second postoperative day . there was less variance in plasma paracetamol concentrations in neonates . both plasma elimination half life and area under the plasma concentration time curve were significantly increased in neonates after suppository dosing compared with older children . there was no difference in antipyretic effect between the two routes of administration , but this was much lower than that previously reported in febrile children . 
the iris in williams syndrome . forty three children with williams syndrome and 124 control subjects had their eyes photographed . the photographs were examined by three ophthalmologists and four geneticists of varying experience . a stellate pattern was noted more often in the irides of patients with williams syndrome ( 51 % ) than in those of the control subjects ( 12 % ) , and was more difficult to detect , or was absent , in heavily pigmented irides . we conclude that the stellate pattern is of diagnostic importance , particularly if the pattern is carefully defined and the clinician is experienced . 
perforated duodenal ulcer : an unusual complication of gastroenteritis . a 7 year old boy was admitted to hospital with gastroenteritis , which was complicated by an acute perforated duodenal ulcer . after oversewing of the perforation he made an uncomplicated recovery . peptic ulceration is under-diagnosed in childhood and this leads to delay in diagnosis and appropriate management . ulceration is associated with severe illness and viral infections , but perforation is rare . 
long-term course of patients with persistent hypercalcitoninemia after apparent curative primary surgery for medullary thyroid carcinoma . thirty-one patients with persistent hypercalcitoninemia after seemingly adequate primary operation for medullary thyroid carcinoma ( mtc ) were followed for a mean period of 11.9 years after operation . ten patients had sporadic mtc and the remaining patients were members of families with multiple endocrine neoplasia ( men ) -- either men 2a ( 15 patients ) or men 2b ( six patients ) . overall 5 - and 10-year survival rates were 90 % and 86 % , respectively . only four patients died at the completion of the study : two of mtc and two of unrelated causes . eleven patients ( 35.5 % ) underwent surgical re-exploration after demonstration of recurrent disease clinically or radiologically . in no patient did the calcitonin level return to normal after re-exploration . the presence of more than three metastatic nodes at the time of initial operation was a statistically significant ( p = 0.003 ) predictor for disease recurrence . factors approaching statistical significance were patients younger than age 35 ( p = 0.06 ) and the percentage of cells in the s phase of cell division ( 0.07 ) . this data supports a conservative surgical philosophy in the management of the patient with persistent hypercalcitoninemia after resection of mtc . 
changing arteriosclerotic disease patterns and management strategies in lower-limb-threatening ischemia . from january 1 , 1974 to december 31 , 1989 , we treated 2829 patients with critical lower-extremity ischemia . in the last 5 years , 13 % of patients had therapeutically significant stenoses or occlusions above and below the groin , while 35 % had them at two or three levels below the inguinal ligament . unobstructed arterial flow to the distal half of the thigh was present in 26 % of patients , and 16 % had unobstructed flow to the upper third of the leg with occlusions of all three leg arteries distal to this point and reconstitution of some patent named artery in the lower leg or foot . in the last 2 years , 99 % of all patients with a threatened limb and without severe organic mental syndrome or midfoot gangrene were amenable to revascularization by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty ( pta ) , arterial bypass , or a combination of the two , although some distal arteries used for bypass insertion were heavily diseased or isolated segments without an intact plantar arch . limb salvage was achieved and maintained in more than 90 % of recent patient cohorts , with a mean procedural mortality rate of 3.3 % . recent strategies that contributed to these results include ( 1 ) distal origin short vein grafts from the below-knee popliteal or tibial arteries to an ankle or foot artery ( 291 cases ) ; ( 2 ) combined pta and bypass ( 245 cases ) ; ( 3 ) more distal pta of popliteal and tibial artery stenoses ( 233 cases ) ; ( 4 ) use of in situ or ectopic reversed autogenous vein for infrapopliteal bypasses , even when vein diameter was 3 to 4 mm ; ( 5 ) composite-sequential femoropopliteal-distal ( ptfe/vein ) bypasses ; ( 6 ) reintervention when a procedure thrombosed ( 637 cases ) or was threatened by a hemodynamically significant inflow , outflow , or graft lesion ( failing graft , 252 cases ) ; ( 7 ) frequent follow-up to detect threatening lesions before graft thrombosis occurred and to permit correction of lesions by pta ( 58 % ) or simple reoperation ; and ( 8 ) unusual approaches to all infrainguinal arteries to facilitate secondary operations , despite scarring and infection . primary major amputation rates decreased from 41 % to 5 % and total amputation rates decreased from 49 % to 14 % . aggressive policies to save threatened limbs thus are supported . 
selective evaluation and management of coronary artery disease in patients undergoing repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms . a 16-year experience . reduction of cardiac mortality associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm ( aaa ) repair remains an important goal . five hundred consecutive urgent or elective operations for infrarenal nonruptured aaa were reviewed . patients were divided into three groups based on preoperative cardiac status : group i ( n = 260 , 52 % ) , no clinical or electrocardiographic ( ecg ) evidence of coronary artery disease ( cad ) ; group ii ( n = 212 , 42.2 % ) , clinical or ecg evidence of cad considered stable after further evaluation with studies such as dipyridamole-thallium scanning , echocardiography , or coronary arteriography ; group iii ( n = 28 , 5.6 % ) , clinical or ecg evidence of cad considered unstable after further evaluation . group i had no further cardiac evaluation and groups i and ii underwent aaa repair without invasive treatment of cad . group iii underwent repair of cardiac disease before ( n = 21 ) or coincident with ( n = 7 ) aaa repair . in all instances , perioperative fluid volume management was based on left ventricular performance curves constructed before operation . the 30-day operative mortality rate for aaa repair in all 500 patients was 1.6 % ( n = 8 ) . there was one ( 0.4 % ) cardiac-related operative death in group i , which was significantly less than the five ( 2.4 % ) in group ii ( p less than 0.02 ) . total mortality for the two groups were also significantly different , with one group i death ( 0.4 % ) and seven group ii deaths ( 3.3 % ) , ( p less than 0.02 ) . these data support the conclusions that ( 1 ) the leading cause of perioperative mortality in aaa repair is myocardial infarction , ( 2 ) correction of severe or unstable cad before or coincident with aaa repair is effective in preventing operative mortality , ( 3 ) patients with known cad should be investigated more thoroughly to identify those likely to develop perioperative myocardial ischemia so that their cad can be corrected before aaa repair , and ( 4 ) patients with no clinical or ecg evidence of cad rarely die of perioperative myocardial infarction , and thus selective evaluation of cad based on clinical grounds in aaa patients is justified . 
ileal pouch-anal anastomosis . reoperation for pouch-related complications . the aim was to assess the value of reoperative surgery for pouch-related complications after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis ( ipaa ) for chronic ulcerative colitis and familial adenomatous polyposis . between january 1981 and august 1989 , 114 of 982 ipaa patients ( 12 % ) seen at the mayo clinic had complications directly related to ipaa that required reoperation . among the 114 patients , the complications prevented initial ileostomy closure in 33 patients ( 25 % ) , occurred after ileostomy closure in 68 patients ( 60 % ) , and delayed ileostomy closure in the remaining patients . the salvage procedures performed included anal dilatation under anesthesia for anastomotic strictures , placement of setons and/or fistulotomy for perianal fistulae , unroofing of anastomotic sinuses , simple drainage and antibiotics for perianal abscesses , abdominal exploration with drainage of intra-abdominal abscesses with or without establishment of ileostomy , and complete or partial reconstruction of the reservoir for patients with inadequate emptying . none of the reoperated patients died . reoperation led to restoration of pouch function in two thirds of patients and , of these , 70 % had an excellent clinical outcome . however approximately 20 % of the 114 pouches required excision . excision was common , especially among patients who had pelvic sepsis . salvage procedures for pouch-specific complications can be done safely and will restore pouch function in two thirds of patients . complications after reoperation , however , may ultimately lead to loss of the reservoir in one in five patients . 
the role of prostanoids in the production of acute acalculous cholecystitis by platelet-activating factor . gallbladder tissue from patients with acute acalculous cholecystitis contains increased amounts of prostanoids when compared to normal gallbladder tissue . platelet-activating factor ( paf ) is a potent stimulus of eicosanoid formation . it has been implicated as a mediator of acute inflammatory processes and systemic responses to shock . in this study the role of paf in acute acalculous cholecystitis was evaluated . anesthetized cats underwent gallbladder perfusion with a physiologic buffer solution containing [ 14c ] polyethylene glycol as a nonabsorbable tracer to quantitate mucosal water absorption . platelet-activating factor was infused into the hepatic artery for 2 hours . control experiments were performed when vehicle alone was infused . experiments also were performed when indomethacin was administered intravenously and when indomethacin and paf were administered . gallbladder mucosal absorption/secretion and perfusate and tissue prostaglandin e ( pge ) and 6 keto prostaglandin f1 alpha ( 6-keto pgf1 alpha ) levels were evaluated . gallbladder inflammation was evaluated by beta-glucuronidase and myeloperoxidase tissue concentrations and by a histologic scoring system . platelet-activating factor eliminated gallbladder absorption and produced net fluid secretion associated with dose-related increases in perfusate pge concentrations and gallbladder tissue pge and 6 keto pgf1 alpha levels when compared to control values . platelet-activating factor produced significant inflammation in the gallbladder with increases in the histologic score of inflammation and tissue lysosomal enzyme activities . indomethacin significantly decreased the fluid secretion , prostanoid levels , and inflammation produced by paf . the results suggest that paf may induce acute gallbladder inflammation associated with systemic stress through a prostanoid-mediated mechanism . 
urinary tract re-functionalization after long-term diversion . a 20-year experience with 177 patients . from 1969 to 1990 , previously diverted urinary tracts were ' undiverted ' in 177 patients whose ages ranged from 1 to 31 years . fifty-six of the patients ( 32 % ) had been diverted for 10 years or longer . there were 67 female and 110 male patients . forty-four patients had only one kidney and in two of those patients it was a previous renal transplant . one patient was anephric at the time of reconstruction , having had two unsuccessful transplants . most of the diversions had been considered permanent . types of diversions that were reversed include ileal loop , colon conduit , loop ureterostomy or pyelostomy , end ureterostomy , cystostomy or vesicostomy , long-term nephrostomy , and ureterosigmoidostomy . 
upper gi bleeding in an urban hospital . etiology , recurrence , and prognosis . acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding ( ugib ) continues to be a common cause of hospital admission and morbidity and mortality . this study reviews 469 patients admitted to a surgical service of an urban hospital . there were 562 total admissions because 53 patients were readmitted 93 times ( recurrence rate , 20 % ) . the most common causes of bleeding , all endoscopically diagnosed , included acute gastric mucosal lesion ( agml ) ( 135 patients , 24 % ) , esophageal varices ( ev ) ( 121 patients , 22 % ) , gastric ulcer ( 108 patients , 19 % ) , duodenal ulcer ( 78 patients , 14 % ) , mallory-weiss tear ( 61 patients , 11 % ) , and esophagitis ( 15 patients , 3 % ) . nonoperative therapy was sufficient in 504 cases ( 89.5 % ) . endoscopic treatment was used in 144 cases . operations were performed in 58 cases ( 10.5 % ) , including 29 % of ulcers . emergency operations to control hemorrhage were required in only 2.5 % of all cases . the rate of major surgical complications was 11 % and the mortality rate was 5.2 % . there were 58 deaths ( 12.6 % ) , with 36 deaths directly attributable to ugib . factors correlating with death include shock at admission ( systolic blood pressure less than 80 ) , transfusion requirement of more than five units , and presence of ev ( all p less than 0.001 ) . most cases of ugib can be treated without operation , including endoscopic treatment , when diagnostic endoscopy establishes the source . subsequent operation in selected patients can be done with low morbidity and mortality rates . 
relief of tracheal compression by aortopexy . we have performed aortopexy in 12 children with tracheal compression . six infants had compression secondary to a vascular anomaly ( group 1 ) , and the other 6 had previous repair of esophageal atresia ( group 2 ) . eleven of the 12 children are alive after a mean follow-up of 36 months . in group 1 , 1 patient died and 3 patients ( 50 % ) experienced recurrent respiratory distress . five infants sustained a major postoperative complication , and the average postoperative hospital stay was 25 days . in group 2 , however , aortopexy was uniformly successful . there were no deaths , no postoperative complications , and no cases of postoperative respiratory distress , and the mean postoperative hospital stay was only 10 days . for children with reflex apnea after repair of esophageal atresia , aortopexy is lifesaving and can be performed with minimal morbidity and mortality . great caution is indicated in children with tracheal compression from other causes . 
tracheal and main bronchial disruptions after blunt chest trauma : presentation and management tracheobronchial disruption is one of the less common injuries associated with blunt thoracic trauma . this injury can be life threatening , however , and failure to diagnose it early can lead to disastrous acute or delayed complications . nine cases of tracheobronchial disruption in the setting of nonpenetrating thoracic trauma were seen at four los angeles trauma centers between 1980 and 1987 . mechanism of injury , presentation , diagnosis , and management of these patients were reviewed . disruptions involved the trachea in 3 patients , the right bronchus in 5 patients , and the left bronchus in 2 patients . tracheobronchial disruptions occurred in settings of high-energy impact-type injuries and were more likely to have associated injuries than they were to occur alone . common presenting signs included subcutaneous emphysema , dyspnea , sternal tenderness , and hemoptysis . radiographic findings were most commonly pneumothorax , pneumomediastinum , and clavicle or rib fractures . rigid bronchoscopy and fiberoptic bronchoscopy were both highly accurate methods for diagnosis but only in the hands of trained cardiothoracic surgeons . delay in diagnosis increased the likelihood of postoperative complications . 
reoperations on heart valve prostheses : an analysis of operative risks and late results . to evaluate risks and complications of reoperations on heart valve prostheses , we reviewed data on 183 patients who underwent reoperation because of prosthetic valve malfunction . the incremental effect of the redo procedure on hospital mortality and morbidity was studied by comparing primary and reoperative procedures and analyzing a series of possible predisposing factors . late survival after first and second reoperations was computed , and possible determinants of late mortality were examined . overall operative mortality was 8.7 % ; emergency operation ( p = 0.0001 ) , previous thromboembolism ( p = 0.05 ) , and advanced new york heart association functional class ( p = 0.031 ) were the independent determinants . in a series of 1,355 patients having primary or secondary isolated valve replacement , the redo procedure was a significant risk factor in the univariate analysis ( p = 0.025 ) but not in the multivariate analysis except for the subset of patients having mitral valve replacement ( p = 0.052 ) . the postoperative course was quite complicated , as evidenced by the long mean stay in the intensive care unit ( mean stay , 3.8 days ; longer than 2 days for 26 % of the survivors ) . nevertheless , postoperative complications were not significantly greater after a redo procedure than after a primary operation . actuarial survival at 7 years was 57.3 % + / - 8 % . a comparison with a nonhomogeneous series from our institution did not demonstrate significant differences . in the subset of 16 patients having a second reoperation , late survival was 37.8 % + / - 16 % at 2 years . advanced new york heart association class ( p = 0.0001 ) , double prosthetic valve dysfunction ( p = 0.003 ) , and any indication other than primary tissue failure ( p = 0.06 ) were determinants of late mortality . 
complications after cardiac operations in patients with severe pulmonary impairment . the postoperative courses of 39 patients with severe lung disease ( 31 with obstructive disease and 8 restrictive ) who underwent a cardiac operation were retrospectively reviewed . the stay in the intensive care unit of the study group was 7.9 + / - 10.3 days ( mean + / - standard deviation ) compared with 2.4 + / - 3.9 days for the control group ( 100 patients with less impaired pulmonary function ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . the study group also had a greater number of valve replacements than did the control group ( p less than 0.01 ) . patients with obstructive disease had more respiratory complications than did patients with restrictive disease ( p less than 0.05 ) . there were 21 cases of atelectasis . effusions were noted in 11 patients . ten patients had bronchospasm . bronchial secretions were a major problem in 6 patients . pneumonia developed in 4 patients , and pneumothorax occurred in 3 others . the two in-hospital deaths were not directly related to pulmonary complications . our findings indicate that ( 1 ) patients with severe lung impairment generally do well after a cardiac operation but have more postoperative pulmonary complications than patients with less impairment ; ( 2 ) patients with restrictive pulmonary disease appear to fare better than those with obstructive disease ; ( 3 ) pulmonary function tests can alert the clinician to the possible risk of postoperative complications , but they can not , by themselves , be used to exclude patients from operation ; and ( 4 ) patients with severe pulmonary impairment facing valve replacement are at greater risk of pulmonary complications than patients having other types of cardiac surgical intervention . 
intraoperative bronchial aspiration of ruptured pulmonary hydatid cysts . ruptured pulmonary hydatid cysts are seen clinically and radiologically as persistent cavitary lesions of the lung . bronchi opening into the pericyst cavity allow for discharge of fluid matter but not the escape of solid remnants of the collapsed parasite . operative manipulation of the involved lung in the course of surgical management of chronic ruptured pulmonary hydatids can force fragments of the laminated membrane or small daughter cysts into the bronchial tree . such extruded solid fragments lodge in bronchi of the same or opposite lung with resulting acute obstruction of airways . intraoperative bronchial aspiration of hydatid material was seen in 7 patients with ruptured hydatid cysts of the lung , either primary or secondary to transdiaphragmatic extension of liver hydatids . the first clinical sign can be unexplained difficulty in ventilation . effective management consists of prompt exposure of the stem bronchus on the operative side , with bronchotomy for suction retrieval of escaped solid fragments of the parasite . 
swan-ganz catheter-induced massive hemoptysis and pulmonary artery false aneurysm . swan-ganz catheter-induced massive hemoptysis and later pulmonary artery false aneurysm occurred in a patient with prosthetic mitral regurgitation . this patient was successfully managed by double-lumen endotracheal intubation , control of pulmonary hypertension , reversal of anticoagulation , mitral valve re-replacement , and transcatheter embolization . the pertinent literature is reviewed . 
cystic medionecrosis of the coronary arteries and fatal coronary vasospasm . the histopathological basis of coronary vasospasm is not well defined . we report a patient with directly observed coronary artery spasm in whom cystic medionecrosis of the coronary arteries and great vessels and myxomatous degeneration of the mitral valve were evident . we suggest that myxoid connective tissue lesions of the heart may be linked to coronary vasospasm . 
guidelines for transfusion support in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting . transfusion practices committee of the american association of blood banks . we have reviewed the impact of evolving issues in coronary artery bypass grafting ( cabg ) on transfusion support for these patients . issues include increased awareness of transfusion risks , reappraisal of traditional indicators triggering transfusion , and evolving alternatives to homologous blood transfusion such as autologous blood and pharmacologic therapy . these issues have been prompted by programs , such as the national institutes of health consensus conferences , to provide physicians with guidelines for appropriate use of blood components . however , evidence suggests that transfusion practice in coronary artery bypass grafting procedures remains variable and does not take into account the results of recently published clinical studies . we have therefore developed guidelines and recommendations for transfusion support in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting . in summary , they are the following . 1 . institutions with coronary artery bypass grafting programs should establish a multidisciplinary approach to use a combination of interventions designed to minimize homologous blood exposure . 2 . prophylactic transfusion of plasma and platelets are of no benefit and therefore carry an unnecessary risk to the patient . 3 . special request products such as designated blood donation from first-degree relatives should not be used because of the risk of transfusion-associated graft versus host disease . 4 . for support of intravascular volume , crystalloids or colloids should be used because they do not have the potential to transmit infection . 
the influence of age vs peak serum concentration on life-threatening events after chronic theophylline intoxication . to identify risk factors for the development of seizures and cardiac arrhythmias after chronic , unintentional theophylline intoxication we monitored the clinical course of 72 consecutive patients referred to a regional poison center with chronic theophylline intoxication ( serum theophylline concentration , greater than or equal to 167 mumol/l after protracted use ) . the median age of the sample was 47.5 years ( range , 4 days to 91 years ) . median peak theophylline concentration was 239 mumol/l , with a range of 167 to 722 mumol/l . a life-threatening event ( lte ) occurred in 28 patients ( 39 % ) that included seizures in eight and a major cardiac arrhythmia in 22 . the median peak ( theophylline ) of patients who had an lte vs those who did not was 235.8 vs 238.7 mumol/l . however , the median age of patients with an lte compared with those without an lte was significantly greater ( 70.5 vs 18.0 years ) . stratification of data by chronologic age revealed a stepwise increase in the frequency of lte with advancing years : patients more than 75 years old had a 16.7-fold greater risk of lte than patients less than 25 years old ( 95 % confidence interval , 3.56 , 77.5 ) despite comparable intergroup median serum ( theophylline ) . these data suggest the primary determinant of ltes after chronic theophylline intoxication is chronologic age . elderly patients have an inordinately greater risk of lte than younger patients . peak serum theophylline concentration can not predict which patients with chronic theophylline intoxication will have an lte . finally , these data indicate that theophylline should be used cautiously and with frequent monitoring of serum theophylline concentrations in elderly patients . 
the prevalence of helicobacter pylori in nonulcer dyspepsia . importance of stratification according to age helicobacter pylori ( formerly campylobacter pylori ) is causally related to active antral gastritis and is highly associated with duodenal and gastric ulcers . however , the relationship of h pylori to nonulcer dyspepsia is less clear . we determined the presence of h pylori in unselected patients who were undergoing upper gastrointestinal tract endoscopy , and we found a prevalence of 37 % in 110 patients with nonulcer dyspepsia that was similar to previous data . patients with nonulcer dyspepsia who had h pylori were found to be significantly older than patients with nonulcer dyspepsia who did not have h pylori . in addition , when stratified according to age , we detected an increased prevalence of h pylori in patients with nonulcer dyspepsia with increasing age , similar to that reported for asymptomatic control populations . this finding casts doubt as to the causal role of h pylori for most patients with nonulcer dyspepsia and stresses the importance of considering epidemiologic factors , such as age , when evaluating the role of h pylori in specific disease states . 
acute lead poisoning in nursing home and psychiatric patients from the ingestion of lead-based ceramic glazes . to our knowledge , acute inorganic lead poisoning from single ingestions of lead compounds has been only rarely reported . during a 14-month period , we were contacted regarding eight instances of acute ingestions of liquid lead-based ceramic glazes by mentally impaired residents of nursing homes or psychiatric facilities participating in ceramic arts programs . while some ingestions did not cause toxic effects , some patients developed acute lead poisoning characterized by abdominal pain , anemia , and basophilic stippling of red blood cells . in the blood of several patients , lead concentrations were far above normal ( 4 to 9.5 mumol/l ) . urinary lead excretions were tremendously elevated during chelation therapy , with one patient excreting 535.9 mumol/l of lead during a 6-day period , the largest lead excretion ever reported in a patient suffering from acute lead poisoning , to our knowledge . all patients recovered following supportive care and appropriate use of chelating agents . lead-based glazes are commonly found in nursing homes and psychiatric facilities . we suspect that acute or chronic lead poisoning from the ingestion ( s ) of lead-based ceramic glazes may be an unrecognized but not uncommon problem among such residents . we urge physicians to take ingestions of lead-based glazes seriously and to consider the diagnosis of lead poisoning in nursing home and psychiatric patients who have participated in ceramic crafts programs . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . recognition of a distinct clinicopathologic entity the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome is a newly described disorder related to the ingestion of l-tryptophan-containing products . its presentation may mimic other disorders characterized by eosinophilia and muscle pain and/or weakness , but can be differentiated by certain characteristic laboratory and pathologic findings . we report two such cases , describe their features , and review similar syndromes . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with l-tryptophan ingestion . analysis of four patients and implications for differential diagnosis and pathogenesis four patients fulfilling the case definition for eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome are described , including one whose disease began in 1986 . each displayed a variety of symptoms : one suffered principally from myalgia and recovered spontaneously on discontinuation of l-tryptophan therapy ; one exhibited progressive sclerodermiform skin changes , neuropathy , and myopathy ; a third had prominent neuromuscular disease and sclerodermiform skin changes ; and the fourth experienced profound weight loss , an axonal polyneuropathy , and perivascular lymphoid infiltrates simulating a lymphoma . evidence of t-cell activation was present in peripheral blood and affected tissues during the clinically active progressive phase of disease . among other manifestations pleural effusion , cutaneous vasculitis , joint contractures , and bloody diarrhea were observed . a history of l-tryptophan ingestion should be sought in patients with myalgia , fatigue , or the above outlined symptoms . 
desensitization in the management of vancomycin hypersensitivity . vancomycin is the preferred antimicrobial agent in the treatment of methicillin-resistant staphylococcal infections . one of the well-known hypersensitivity reactions to this agent is the " red-man syndrome , " which is believed to involve drug-induced histamine release in certain individuals . although rate and/or dose reductions may be effective in some cases , some hypersensitivity reactions necessitate the discontinuation of vancomycin . in this article one patient is described who developed vancomycin-associated reactions consistent with the red-man syndrome despite having tolerated vancomycin administration previously . this case was managed by sequential increments in vancomycin administration over several days that allowed for therapeutic doses of the drug to be administered . prior to desensitization , vancomycin administration at a lowered rate and dose was unsuccessfully attempted , despite the presence of combination antihistamine therapy . a loss of skin prick test reactivity to vancomycin was demonstrated after successful desensitization . this desensitization method may be useful in managing certain refractory cases of vancomycin hypersensitivity . 
study of preneoplastic changes of liver cells by immunohistochemical and molecular hybridization techniques . the status of hepatitis b virus dna was investigated by in situ hybridization in multifocal areas of a noncancerous hepatitis b virus-associated cirrhosis . this liver exhibited a marked degree of dysplasia and adenomatous hyperplasia . the results of these studies were correlated with the histopathology and immunohistochemical stains for hepatitis b core and surface antigens . there was clear evidence of a marked reduction to absence of hepatitis b viral dna by in situ hybridization and absence of hbc and hbsag in the foci of liver cell dysplasia and adenomatous hyperplasia . these results support the hypothesis that liver cell dysplasia and adenomatous hyperplasia are preneoplastic in nature . 
manual stretch : effect on finger movement control and force control in stroke subjects with spastic extrinsic finger flexor muscles . this study evaluated the effects of manual stretch of extrinsic finger flexor muscles on finger extension movement control and force control in 16 spastic hemiparetic subjects . these subjects were randomly divided into a control group and an experimental group . a group of able-bodied subjects also participated . a joint-movement tracking test ( jmtt ) quantified control of active finger extension movement at the metacarpophalangeal joint of the index finger within the available range of active movement , and a force tracking test ( ftt ) quantified control of isometric finger extension force at the same joint within the subject 's available force range . electromyographic activity was monitored in the extensor digitorum and flexor digitorum superficialis muscles during both tracking tests . manual stretch was applied to the extrinsic finger flexor muscles of the experimental group between the pretest and posttest tracking tests . the jmtt performances of both control ( p less than .025 ) and experimental ( p less than .05 ) groups were significantly subnormal on the pretest as were ftt performances of controls ( p less than .01 ) and study subjects ( p less than .03 ) . the jmtt improvement on posttest was significantly greater ( p less than .05 ) in subjects than in controls . however , the change in ftt performance was not significantly different between the two groups . manual stretch treatment , properly applied to extrinsic finger flexor muscles , is an effective method of temporarily improving the control of finger extension movement in spastic hemiparetic subjects . 
strapless oral-nasal interface for positive-pressure ventilation . a custom-fabricated strapless oral-nasal interface ( soni ) is described . it was used in the long-term administration of intermittent positive-pressure ventilation ( ippv ) by 18 patients with paralytic or restrictive pulmonary insufficiency . this interface is an acrylic shell which is firmly fixed to an orthodontic bite plate ; it is designed to form a seal over the nose and mouth for the entry of ippv . eight patients were ventilator dependent 24 hours a day . the ten patients who required only nocturnal aid had improvement in daytime arterial blood gases . although nine of these patients could manage less than 15 minutes of unassisted breathing ( free time ) supine , all slept supine on soni ippv . the 13 patients who underwent sleep monitoring maintained a mean oxygen saturation of 95.3 % + / - 1.7 % and acceptable end-tidal pco2 ( 30 to 45 mmhg ) . these 13 patients have used soni ippv for an average of 22 months ( range = 3 to 63 months ) . impediments to successful long-term use of a soni include the presence of a hyperactive gag reflex or stimulation of excessive oral secretions . when combined with mouth ippv , glossopharyngeal breathing , the intermittent abdominal pressure ventilator , or the cuirass ventilator for daytime use , soni ippv is an option for the patient who prefers total ventilatory support by noninvasive means . 
stroke rehabilitation : a geropsychological perspective . rehabilitation medicine and geriatric medicine are similar in their concern for functional improvement in the face of chronic medical conditions . although many patients served by rehabilitation medicine fall within the geriatric age range , a knowledge of normal aging does not necessarily inform clinical decision making or research practices in rehabilitation . using stroke as an example of a disorder affecting primarily geriatric patients and requiring the technology of rehabilitation , ways in which age might affect assessment of outcome are examined . three areas dealing with conceptual and methodologic issues -- depression , neurochemical interventions , and family -- are highlighted . the final section outlines recommendations for research on rehabilitation outcome of geriatric stroke patients . 
is liver transplantation justified for the treatment of hepatic malignancies ? twenty-eight patients received orthotopic liver transplants for malignant disease between february 1 , 1984 , and december 31 , 1989 . preoperative diagnoses included hepatocellular carcinoma ( n = 16 ) , cholangiocarcinoma ( n = 3 ) , other primary hepatic tumors ( n = 6 ) , and metastatic diseases to the liver ( n = 3 ) . overall actuarial survivals at 6 months , 1 year , and 5 years were 67.3 % , 51 % , and 31 % , respectively . long-term survival longer than 5 years was achieved in 3 patients . the recurrence rate in patients surviving longer than 3 months is 48 % ( median , 7 months ) . hepatocellular carcinoma and cholangiocarcinoma had the poorest survival and highest recurrence rates . specific prognostic factors correlating with survival or recurrence could not be elucidated . these results indicate that orthotopic liver transplants can provide long-term cure and palliation for malignant disease ; however , patient selection is extremely important in predicting outcome . 
comprehensive management of acute necrotizing pancreatitis and pancreatic abscess . achieving reduced mortality rates in patients with necrotizing pancreatitis and pancreatic abscess is possible by employing a comprehensive management plan . components of the plan include ( 1 ) rapid evaluation and assessment of the degree of physiologic and anatomic derangement , the latter by the prompt use of vascular enhanced computed tomographic scan ; ( 2 ) adequate fluid resuscitation determined by early institution of advanced hemodynamic monitoring ; ( 3 ) attempts to identify and document septic foci via computed tomography-guided percutaneous aspiration ; and ( 4 ) aggressive surgical debridement . close adherence to these policies allowed us to keep mortality in this seriously ill group of patients to 14 % . most deaths occurred in patients who were referred to this service late in the course of their disease . the acute physiology and chronic health enquiry ( apache ) ii severity of illness index applied at the time of admission proved an accurate predictor of mortality . a score of 25 or greater was highly predictive of death , and a lesser score , of survival . 
immediate breast reconstruction following mastectomy is as safe as mastectomy alone . we evaluated wound complications and potential risk factors after mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction and compared them with similar data after modified radical mastectomy . the incidences of infection , seroma , hematoma , and epidermolysis were compared among 395 patients ( 305 with modified radical mastectomies and 90 with mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction ) from virginia mason medical center , seattle , wash , between 1983 and 1989 . obesity , age ( 60 years or older ) , smoking , antibiotics , and wound drainage were examined as possible risk factors . there were more wound complications in the modified radical mastectomy group ( 48 % vs 31 % ) , and specifically , more seromas ( 30 % vs 13 % ) . in the modified radical mastectomy group , age of 60 years or older was associated with seroma and infection , drainage greater than 30 ml per day ( at time of drain removal ) with seroma , and smoking with epidermolysis . in the mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction group , obesity was associated with seroma and epidermolysis . we conclude that mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction appears to be as safe as modified radical mastectomy alone with respect to wound complications . 
the efficacy of central venous and pulmonary artery catheters and therapy based upon them in reducing mortality and morbidity . the purpose of this study was to ( 1 ) evaluate the relative cost effectiveness of the central venous pressure and flow-directed pulmonary artery catheters used to maintain normal hemodynamic values as therapeutic goals in the control groups vs supranormal values empirically observed in critically ill postoperative survivors in the protocol groups , and ( 2 ) to evaluate tissue perfusion and oxygenation in relationship to organ failure and mortality . in two prospective clinical trials there were no significant differences in outcome between the central venous pressure and pulmonary artery control groups that used normal values as therapeutic goals . however , there were marked and significant reductions in morbidity and mortality of the protocol groups using the supranormal cardiac index , oxygen delivery , and oxygen consumption values as goals . the cumulative oxygen debt was less and organ failures were fewer and less severe in the protocol groups than in the control groups . 
treatment of traumatic rupture of the thoracic aorta . a 15-year experience . traumatic rupture of the thoracic aorta is increasing in incidence and remains a highly lethal injury . the morbidity associated with this injury also remains high . we retrospectively reviewed the records of all patients admitted to our emergency department with ruptured thoracic aortas during a 15-year period to determine the reason for this persistently high morbidity and mortality and to identify any factors that might improve the outcome . we found that patients who are in unstable condition on arrival in the emergency department or who become unstable before reaching the operating room are not likely to survive . patients who are injured in automobile accidents have a greater chance of survival than do those injured in motorcycle accidents or car-pedestrian accidents . patients who are in hemodynamically stable condition after aortic injury survive only if diagnosis and treatment are prompt . major complications of repair following thoracic aortic injury relate primarily to the length of cross-clamp time , and every effort should be devoted to keeping the cross-clamp time less than 30 minutes . 
massive splenomegaly . superior results with a combined endovascular and operative approach . splenectomy for massive splenomegaly ( drained splenic weight , greater than 1000 g ) has an uncommonly high morbidity and mortality because of technical challenges and problems of hemostasis . in a group of 10 patients with massive splenomegaly due to myeloproliferative disorders ( average splenic weight , 4193 g ) , we developed a management algorithm based on preoperative angiographic embolization of the splenic artery . average operating time was 1.7 hours ( range , 1 to 2.5 hours ) . average blood loss was 528 ml ; six of the 10 patients had blood loss less than 250 ml . there were four minor complications and one major complication ( gastric ulcer requiring reoperation ) . there were no deaths in the perioperative period , and no patients required reoperation for hemorrhage . 
the recalcitrant perineal wound after rectal extirpation . applications of muscle flap closure . perineal wounds developing after abdominoperineal resection result in chronic purulent drainage and intermittent episodes of sepsis and are generally unresponsive to conservative medical and surgical treatment . thirteen consecutive patients ( aged 27 to 74 years ; mean , 48 years ) who underwent debridement and immediate muscle flap closure of these wounds were analyzed to identify risk factors for delayed healing and to evaluate the effectiveness of muscle flap coverage . three risk factors were identified : preoperative or postoperative radiation therapy , resection for recurrent carcinoma , and inflammatory bowel disease . a total of 19 muscle flaps ( 11 gracilis , five gluteal thigh , two gluteus maximus , and one rectus abdominis ) were used to close these wounds . during an average 3.5-year follow-up , four ( 31 % ) minor complications and one ( 8 % ) recurrence were noted to occur . muscle flaps provide safe , effective , single-stage procedures for the closure of chronic perineal wounds . 
fibrin glue inhibits intra-abdominal adhesion formation . to determine the effect of fibrin glue on intra-abdominal adhesion formation , 45 rats were randomized to three groups . each animal received two adhesion models . group 1 received no further treatment . groups 2 and 3 had the adhesion models covered with fibrinogen from fresh frozen plasma ( 1.77 g/l ) and cryoprecipitate ( 23.6 g/l ) , respectively . in group 1 , 13 of 15 rats had high-grade adhesions in both models . in group 2 , high-grade adhesions were noted in nine of 15 rats in model 1 and in 12 of 15 rats in model 2 . in group 3 , however , high-grade adhesions were seen in only three of 15 rats in model 1 , with 11 rats having no adhesions , and in only two of 15 rats in model 2 . histologic analysis suggested accelerated healing in group 3 . we conclude that ( 1 ) fibrin glue inhibits intra-abdominal adhesion formation in rats , ( 2 ) the inhibitory action is dependent on the fibrinogen concentration of the fibrin glue , and ( 3 ) adhesions are reduced by fibrin glue regardless of whether the peritoneal defect is closed . 
heterotopic tissue in lymph nodes . an unrecognized problem . heterotopic tissue in lymph nodes is both unknown to clinicians and a potential source of confusion with metastatic disease . we reviewed the english literature and found 289 cases of heterotopic tissue in lymph nodes . the majority ( 84 % ) of these patients were operated on for malignant neoplasms . the most frequent sites of occurrence was the pelvis ( 67 % ) , followed by the axilla ( 14 % ) , neck ( 14 % ) , groin ( 3 % ) , abdomen ( 2 % ) , and mediastinum ( less than 1 % ) . the tissue seen is site-specific and frequently resembles a neighboring organ . three cases have been reported in which heterotopic tissue was mistaken for metastatic disease . these cases illustrate the importance of being familiar with heterotopic tissue in lymph nodes and identifying it when it does occur , to avoid inappropriate therapy . 
reoperative surgery for the morbidly obese . a university experience . patients who undergo surgery for morbid obesity are often subjected to reoperation for a wide array of indications . to evaluate outcome following revisional procedures , we reviewed the records of 32 such patients treated at ucla between april 1986 and may 1989 . twenty-five women ( 78 % ) and 7 men ( 22 % ) with a mean age of 44 years underwent 76 reoperations ( 2.4 per patient ) for complications of prior obesity surgery . indications for initial surgical revision consisted primarily of metabolic derangements ( 12 patients ) and weight-related problems ( 11 patients ) . in contrast , indications for the patients ' final surgical procedure were commonly for bowel obstruction ( 41 % ) , intra-abdominal sepsis ( 12 % ) , and gastrointestinal bleeding ( 6 % ) . following initial revision , 23 patients ( 71.8 % ) required further surgery for major complications and four patients died ( 12.5 % ) . while initial revisions are frequently indicated for metabolic problems , final reoperations are more frequently undertaken for urgent , life-threatening complications . revisional procedures for morbid obesity should be carefully considered , and the potential for major complications and/or death should be weighted heavily against proposed benefits . 
failure of surgery to improve outcome in hypertensive putaminal hemorrhage . a prospective randomized trial . hypertensive putaminal hemorrhage remains a major cause of hemorrhagic stroke carrying extremely high morbidity . considerable controversy remains regarding the optimal form of therapy . between 1983 and 1989 we conducted a prospective randomized trial with three treatment strategies : best medical management , best medical management plus intracranial pressure monitoring , and surgical evacuation . only patients with significant deficit harboring a putaminal hematoma at least 3.0 cm in diameter were entered . the study was interrupted after 21 patients had been studied ( 9 , best medical management ; 4 , intracranial pressure monitoring ; and 8 , surgical evacuation ) . no differences were found among groups for age , admission blood pressure , and time interval between onset of symptoms and arrival at hospital . none of the subjects were capable of returning to prestroke activity . fifteen ( 71 % ) died or remained vegetative at 6 months , and only 4 ( 19 % ) were capable of independent life at home . of the 9 patients in the best medical management arm , 7 were dead or vegetative . in the surgical group , 4 patients died and only 2 were capable of independent life . these results suggest that current medical and neurosurgical therapies remain ineffective in preventing the devastating neurologic consequences of hypertensive putaminal hemorrhage . 
x-linked spinal muscular atrophy ( kennedy 's syndrome ) . a kindred with hypobetalipoproteinemia . kennedy 's syndrome , x-linked adult-onset bulbospinal muscular atrophy , has been described in over 30 families . the characteristic distribution of weakness creates a recognizable syndrome , augmented by frequent findings of testicular atrophy and gynecomastia . type iv or type ii hyperlipoproteinemia has been found in some families . we have studied another family with kennedy 's syndrome , this one with hypobetalipoproteinemia . the diversity of serum patterns suggests that lipoprotein abnormalities are not causally related to either the endocrinopathy or the spinal muscular atrophy . however , gene linkage studies indicate proximity of the gene for kennedy 's syndrome and the gene encoding the androgen receptor , which could explain the combination of a motor neuron disorder and the endocrine abnormalities . 
episodic hyperammonemia in adult siblings with hyperornithinemia , hyperammonemia , and homocitrullinuria syndrome . a 39-year-old man and his 42-year-old sister , both vegetarians , had episodic confusion for many years , but their mental function was normal between those episodes . they were recently diagnosed with hyperornithinemia , hyperammonemia , and homocitrullinuria syndrome . hyperammonemia was documented during an episode of confusion in the male sibling but not in his sister . both had elevated plasma ornithine , glutamine , and alanine levels and persistently low plasma lysine levels . homocitrulline was present in their urine , and orotic aciduria and orotidinuria developed in the male sibling following ingestion of allopurinol . studies on their cultured skin fibroblasts showed deficient metabolism of ornithine , indicating a defect in ornithine transport across the mitochondrial membrane . during therapy with citrulline and phenylbutyrate sodium , plasma ornithine levels increased in both patients , while plasma levels of glutamine and alanine decreased to normal . since therapy started , their clinical conditions have also improved , and no recurrent neurologic dysfunction has occurred during a follow-up period of 20 months . 
unusual cause of ' piriformis muscle syndrome ' . the piriformis muscle syndrome is a controversial " clinical " syndrome primarily characterized by signs and symptoms of sciatic nerve compression at the region of the piriformis muscle as it passes through the greater sciatic notch . the syndrome is often referred to ; however , cases are rarely reported , and it is generally an uncommon diagnosis . of those cases reported , the incidence is six times more frequent in females than in males , and is typically temporally related to minor pelvic or buttock trauma . we describe a case of a 40-year-old woman presenting with signs and symptoms suggestive of piriformis muscle syndrome following a gynecologic procedure performed in the dorsal lithotomy position . electromyographic findings were consistent with this clinical entity . operative exploration , however , revealed the source of neural compression to be a pseudoaneurysm of the inferior gluteal artery adjacent to the piriformis muscle . the diagnostic features of this clinical syndrome are discussed . 
relationship of drusen and abnormalities of the retinal pigment epithelium to the prognosis of neovascular macular degeneration . the macular photocoagulation study group . we graded macular features of 127 fellow eyes of participants in the macular photocoagulation study who had an extrafoveal choroidal neovascular membrane secondary to age-related macular degeneration in the first eye and no initial evidence of the neovascular form of age-related macular degeneration in the fellow eye . our aims were to determine the relationship of drusen characteristics and retinal pigment epithelial abnormalities to the risk of subsequent development of neovascularization in the fellow eye and the risk of subsequent development of recurrent neovascular membranes after photocoagulation in the first eye . regression analysis demonstrated that the presence of large drusen and focal hyperpigmentation of the retinal pigment epithelium were independent risk factors for the subsequent development of neovascularization in the fellow eye ( relative risk , 2.4 and 2.5 , respectively ) . only 10 % of eyes with no large drusen or any retinal pigment epithelial hyperpigmentation compared with 58 % of eyes with both large drusen and retinal pigment epithelial hyperpigmentation developed neovascularization in the fellow eye within 5 years . using multivariate cox regression analysis , we noted that the risk of developing recurrent neovascular membranes in the first eye was significantly increased when large drusen ( relative risk , 2.8 ) were noted in the fellow eye at the time of laser treatment in the first eye . fundus features in the fellow eye appear to help identify patients at high risk of developing visual loss from recurrent neovascular membranes following laser treatment in the first eye and from development of a neovascular membrane in the fellow eye . 
metastatic carcinoma to the retina . clinicopathologic findings in two cases . two cases of metastatic carcinoma to the neuroretina are reported . one patient had an oat cell carcinoma of the lung that was metastatic to the brain and retina ; this was confirmed postmortem . the other patient had metastatic breast carcinoma with seeding of tumor cells into the vitreous from a focus of retinal embolism . the diagnosis was confirmed from a vitrectomy specimen . 
major histocompatibility complex genes and susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematosus . susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematosus is associated with major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) -- encoded genes . we have used nucleotide sequence analysis to better define the disease-associated mhc alleles . hla-dr2 , dqw1 , and especially the rare allele dq beta 1 . azh confer high relative risk ( rr = 14 ) for lupus nephritis in a caucasian population of patients . pilot studies using historical controls suggest that these genes also confer a high risk in non-caucasian ethnic groups ( rr = 24-78 ) . we have found that dr4 is significantly decreased in patients with lupus nephritis . fifty percent of the patients with lupus nephritis had either the dq beta 1.1 , the dq beta 1 . azh , or the dq beta 1.9 alleles . these alleles share amino acid residues that have been predicted to be the contact points for antigen and the t cell receptor . these hla alleles appear to have a direct role in the predisposition to lupus nephritis , whereas dr4 may have a " protective " effect . 
renal disease in chronic arthritis of childhood . a study of urinary n-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase and beta 2-microglobulin excretion . urinalyses of randomly obtained samples from children with various types of chronic arthritis revealed proteinuria in 2.3 % of patients , hemoglobinuria in 3.5 % , erythrocyturia in 4.1 % , and leukocyturia in 5.3 % ; these frequencies are within the range found by screening school children . however , raised urinary levels of n-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase and/or beta 2-microglobulin ( both sensitive measures of renal tubular damage ) were found more frequently in children with chronic arthritis than in controls ( p less than 0.0001 ) . abnormalities of either n-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase or beta 2-microglobulin excretion were associated with active arthritis as measured by physician global estimate of disease activity , with a polyarticular onset of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis , and with the use of slow-acting antirheumatic drugs or the concurrent use of more than 1 nonsteroidal antiinflamtory drug . abnormal renal tubular function appears to be common in chronic arthritis of childhood . the long-term consequences of this abnormality remain to be elucidated . 
pseudotumor of the craniocervical junction during long-term hemodialysis . a systematic study of the upper cervical spine was performed using magnetic resonance imaging in 25 patients ( 15 men and 10 women ) who had been undergoing hemodialysis for more than 10 years . seven pseudotumors of the periodontoid soft tissue were disclosed , which were similar to the pannus recently described in rheumatoid arthritis . bone cystic radiolucencies were observed in association with these pseudotumors in 5 patients . the radiolucencies were located in the atlas ( 1 in the lateral mass and 1 in the anterior branch ) and in the axis ( 3 in the odontoid process and 1 in the vertebral body ) . no horizontal or vertical atlantoaxial subluxation was demonstrated . these features were observed only in patients who had amyloid arthropathy . they could be a frequent , yet thus far little-recognized , feature of beta 2-microglobulin amyloidosis . 
t cell subsets ( tc , th , ts , tsi ) and il2 receptor-bearing cells in peripheral blood of patients in the acute phase of alcoholic hepatitis . the present study was designed to evaluate the proportion of t cell subsets and il2 receptor positive cells in the peripheral blood of patients with acute alcoholic hepatitis ( aah ) using monoclonal antibodies to t cell antigens and tac in a double immunofluorescent technique . the results indicate that the percentage of the total t cells and the intensity of all the t cell antigens are significantly reduced and the percentage of t helper cells and the ratio between th/ts cells are significantly increased in aah when compared to healthy controls . but , significant differences in values observed in this study were not found for the absolute number of these cells . these altered values returned to normal levels during convalescence . 
bretylium tosylate versus lidocaine in experimental cardiac arrest bretylium tosylate has been shown effective in the treatment of ventricular fibrillation and in the prevention of its recurrence . however , lidocaine is generally preferred because bretylium could have adverse hemodynamic effects related to its antiadrenergic action . to explore further the differences between these two antiarrhythmic agents , the authors compared the effects of bretylium , lidocaine , and saline on a standardized dog model of ventricular fibrillation followed by electromechanical dissociation ( emd ) . the protocol included three successive episodes of cardiac arrest in each animal . three minutes before each episode of ventricular fibrillation , 5 mg/kg of bretylium tosylate ( n = 11 ) , 1 mg/kg of lidocaine ( n = 9 ) or saline ( n = 12 ) were administered blindly . there was no difference in the duration of cardiac arrest ( bretylium , 8 min 18 sec ; lidocaine , 7 min 54 sec ; saline , 8 min 20 sec ) or the total doses of epinephrine required to resuscitate the animals . both bretylium and lidocaine appeared to preserve cardiac function 5 minutes after recovery , as stroke volume increased from 17.8 + / - 6.7 to 18.7 + / - 6.7 ml ( ns ) after bretylium and from 17.7 + / - 7.7 to 19.0 + / - 7.0 ml ( ns ) after lidocaine , but decreased from 19.0 + / - 5.3 to 14.6 + / - 6.0 ml ( p less than .05 ) after saline . during the first 10 minutes of emd , ventricular fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia recurred in 4 dogs treated with lidocaine , 3 dogs treated with saline , but no dog treated with bretylium ( p less than .05 between bretylium and saline ) . 
urgent care center pediatric telephone advice . pediatric telephone advice is sought frequently by members of the community . this study was undertaken to evaluate the quality and accuracy of pediatric telephone advice given by free-standing urgent care centers . one hundred such facilities were telephoned and advice was requested by a research assistant . a case was presented that could have represented a pediatric medical emergency . overall only 17 centers gave adequate advice . the data suggest that under some circumstances free-standing urgent care center pediatric telephone advice may be inaccurate and inappropriate . workable policies and protocols for pediatric telephone advice should be instituted by these facilities . 
a controlled trial of nebulized isoetharine in the prehospital treatment of acute asthma . acute asthma is a potentially life-threatening disorder , recognizable to the prehospital care provider . while therapies are available to the prehospital care provider for treating acute asthma , no previous controlled studies have been performed demonstrating the treatment in the field is efficacious and safe . the authors conducted a controlled trial of the prehospital use of nebulized isoetharine in an urban emergency medical services system . fifty-two patients with acute asthma were studied . patients were initially evaluated with a peak flow meter . half of the patients received isoetharine , while the control group received basic life support only . there was no difference in baseline values . peak expiratory flow increased from 138 l/min to 148 l/min in the control group , while it increased from 149 l/min to 218 l/min in the treatment group ( p less than .001 ) . the authors conclude that paramedic treatment of acute asthma with nebulized isoetharine is effective in improving pulmonary function and clinical status during transport . 
near fatal subacute thallium poisoning necessitating prolonged mechanical ventilation . the authors describe a case of severe sensory-motor polyneuropathy caused by subacute thallium-intoxication rapidly progressing to respiratory failure due to complete muscle paralysis . after more than 2 months of mechanical ventilation , weaning from the ventilator was possible . further intensive physical rehabilitation required an additional 6 months hospital stay , and 18 months later , neurological recovery was complete except for the distal lower limbs muscles . the authors discuss the different forms of thallotoxicosis and the present treatment is reviewed . maximal prolonged therapeutic support should be offered in severe thallotoxicosis because of possible near complete recovery . 
changes in ventricular fibrillation threshold during the development of perinephritic hypertension . established hypertension is associated with enhanced susceptibility to life-threatening arrhythmias . however , little is known about the effects of the development of hypertension on the electro-physiological properties of the heart . to study this relationship , dogs were chronically instrumented for recording mean arterial pressure and conducting cardiac electrical testing during right ventricular pacing using an intracavitary bipolar catheter . in normotension , ventricular fibrillation threshold was determined under alpha-chloralose anesthesia , after which perinephritic hypertension was induced by wrapping one kidney in silk followed by contralateral nephrectomy . during serial testing of the same animals , ventricular fibrillation threshold was significantly increased early in the development of hypertension ( 2 to 3 weeks after renal wrapping ) , but found to be significantly reduced at 6 to 7 weeks after renal wrapping . the increase in ventricular fibrillation threshold was eliminated by cholinergic blockade . 
echocardiographic measurement of left ventricular mass and volume in normotensive and hypertensive rats . necropsy validation . although rats are commonly used to study left ventricular ( lv ) hypertrophy , measurement of lv mass and dimensions has required killing the rat . to determine the accuracy of echocardiography in rats , blinded crossectional area ( csa ) and lv mass measurements using either the cube function ( lvm ) or an elliptical model ( lvmel ) from high resolution m-mode echocardiograms were compared to necropsy lv weight ( 0.28 to 1.5 g ) , in 41 normotensive ( body weight 116 to 762 g ) and 17 hypertensive rats ( 350 to 560 g ) . postmortem chamber volumes in 28 normal rats ( 0.02 to 0.19 ml ) were also compared to echocardiographic volumes derived from the elliptical model . correlation with lv weight was r = 0.87 for lvm , 0.90 for csa and 0.93 for lvmel ( all p less than .00001 ) . comparison of hypertensive and body-weight-matched normotensive rats revealed the upper normal limit for both lvmel and csa to have 89 % sensitivity and 100 % specificity for detection of post mortem lv hypertrophy . necropsy lv volumes were more closely related to systolic echocardiographic volumes than to diastolic volumes ( r = 0.78 v 0.71 , both p less than .00001 ) , compatible with the effects of post mortem contracture . stroke volume determined invasively in 5 wistar rats by thermodilution was similar to that obtained using elliptical model echo volumes in 5 rats of the same body size ( 0.35 + / - 0.05 v 0.30 + / - 0.06 ml/beat ) . echocardiography can be used to evaluate lv structure and function in rats and to detect in vivo lv anatomic differences induced by hypertension . 
the alien hand sign . localization , lateralization and recovery . the alien hand sign was first described by brion and jedynak as a " feeling of estrangement between the patient and one of his hands . " the affected hand frequently shows a grasp reflex and an instinctive grasp reaction as well as elements of what denny-brown referred to as a " magnetic apraxia " associated with frontal lobe damage . most notably , however , the affected hand is observed to perform apparently purposive behaviors that are perceived as being outside the volitional control of the patient . the patients interpret the behavior of their own affected limb as being controlled by an external agent . they do not feel that they are initiating or controlling the behavior of the hand and often express dismay at the hand 's " extravolitional " activity . the patients attempt to control behavior of the alien hand with the unimpaired hand by forcibly restraining the affected limb , an act that may be termed " self-restriction . " in this paper , we report an additional four cases of alien hand sign in right-handed subjects : two involving the right hand and two involving the left hand . in each case , the clinical findings were associated with extensive unilateral damage of the medial frontal cortex of the hemisphere contralateral to the affected hand . furthermore , the alien movement gradually disappears over the course of 6-12 months after the stroke . these clinical case studies are presented and discussed in the context of the " dual premotoer systems hypothesis , " an anatomicophysiological model that proposes that action is organized by two separate but interactive premotor brain systems corresponding to evolutionarily defined medial and lateral cortical moieties . it is hypothesized that the alien mode behavior results from unconstrained activity of the lateral premotor system in the damaged hemisphere . the residual volitional control in the limb occurs through the activity of the intact medial premotor system of the ipsilateral hemisphere . recovery may occur through extension of these ipsilateral control mechanisms by compensatory changes in subcortical systems controlling hemispheric activation associated with adaptive behavior . this observation may be important in understanding mechanisms involved in motor recovery after stroke . 
cardiac arrhythmias from a malpositioned greenfield filter in a traumatic quadriplegic . a case study is presented of premature greenfield filter discharge with intracardiac migration and resulting life-threatening arrhythmias . these arrhythmias also interfered with the patient 's transition from ventilatory support via orotracheal intubation to noninvasive positive airway pressure ventilatory support methods . the patient 's arrhythmias were controlled by a demand cardiac pacemaker and cardiac glycoside therapy . no anticoagulants were used . she had no further filter migration nor significant complications for 16 months after hospital discharge . 
macrophages as susceptible targets for hiv infection , persistent viral reservoirs in tissue , and key immunoregulatory cells that control levels of virus replication and extent of disease . although macrophages are major targets for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection in vivo , study of hiv-macrophage interactions in vitro was hindered because many laboratory strains of hiv would not replicate in macrophages , and because survival of macrophages in culture was poor . addition of purified macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( m-csf ) to cultured macrophages markedly improves their survival , but does not induce proliferation . hiv isolates that replicate in macrophages will also replicate in lymphocytes ; however , isolates adapted to lymphoid cells ( such as hiv-htlviiib ) will not replicate in macrophages . the envelope gene appears to be a major determinant of the cell tropism of viral isolates . t-cell grown virus stocks synthesize abundant gp120 , while virus grown in macrophages contains relatively much less gp120 . electron microscopy of virions from macrophages shows them to be depleted of gp120 surface " spikes . " recombination studies show that the portion of the genome coding for the envelope glycoprotein appears to determine cell tropism . lastly , rscd4 neutralized macrophage-tropic isolates less efficiently than t-cell tropic isolates . hiv replication in macrophages is partially under the control of cellular factors , although these have been less well characterized than they have in lymphocytes . 
characterization of the in vitro maturation of monocytes and the susceptibility to hiv infection . the in vitro maturation of peripheral blood monocytes to macrophages can be followed morphologically , and by measurement of cell surface antigens ( cd4 , hla-dr , and fcr iii ) and lysozyme production . we used these markers to correlate monocyte maturation with susceptibility to human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . maturation of peripheral blood monocytes is associated with a decrease in membrane cd4 , while hla-dr and fcr iii expression increase along with lysozyme secretion . cells at all stages of maturation were susceptible to hiv infection , even mature macrophages without cd4 detectably by immunofluorescent staining . maximal replication was observed in 7-day-old cells . 
antibody-enhanced infection of monocytes as the pathogenetic mechanism for severe dengue illness . antibody-dependent enhancement of certain virus infections can occur in cells expressing fc receptors . this mechanism plays an important pathogenetic role in the development of complications associated with dengue virus infection , including dengue hemorrhagic infection and dengue shock syndrome . the virulence of the virus , characterized by the ability to infect fc receptor-bearing monocytes also influences the development of these severe illnesses . 
systemic pattern of free radical generation during coronary bypass surgery . diffuse impairment of ventricular function after cardiac surgery may be related to the generation during reperfusion of the myocardium of free radicals derived from oxygen . fifteen patients undergoing elective coronary bypass surgery were studied by previously described assays for peroxidised lipids and for isomerised lipids which were used as indices of free radical activity . serial blood samples were obtained from systemic arterial , mixed venous , and coronary sinus catheters before , during , and after the ischaemic period . the patients underwent coronary artery surgery on cardiopulmonary bypass with a membrane oxygenator , relative hypothermia 30-34 degrees c , and intermittent cross-clamping of the aorta . during the ischaemic periods there were no significant changes in the indices of free radical activity . during the reperfusion phase there was a significant increase in free radical indices in arterial and mixed venous blood . a small rise in free radical indices in coronary venous blood was not statistically significant . these data indicate that free radical activity is increased in patients shortly after the cessation of cardiopulmonary bypass . the pattern of distribution between the different sampling sites suggests that much of the observed increase in isomerised and peroxidised lipids originates from tissues other than the myocardium . 
placebo controlled trial of xamoterol versus digoxin in chronic atrial fibrillation . thirteen patients in chronic atrial fibrillation with a normal resting heart rate but with exercise tachycardia and episodes of bradycardia were randomised to treatment periods of two weeks on xamoterol ( 200 mg twice daily ) , low dose digoxin , or placebo , in a blind crossover study . the results ( mean sem ) of symptom scores , a treadmill exercise test , and 24 hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring were obtained . xamoterol improved symptom scores and controlled exercise heart rate better than digoxin . xamoterol was better than digoxin or placebo in reducing the heart rate response to exercise and tended to improve exercise duration . xamoterol , by reducing the daytime maximum hourly heart rate and increasing the night time minimum hourly heart rate , significantly reduced the difference between the two compared with placebo . in contrast , digoxin tended to reduce both the maximum and minimum hourly heart rates through day and night . both the frequency and duration of ventricular pauses were reduced by xamoterol but tended to increase with digoxin . xamoterol reduced both the circadian variation in ventricular response to atrial fibrillation and exercise tachycardia by modulating the heart rate according to the prevailing level of sympathetic activity . these changes were translated into symptomatic benefit for the patients studied . 
primary balloon dilatation of coarctation of the aorta in neonates . primary balloon dilatation of coarctation of the aorta was attempted in 10 consecutive neonates ( age range 2-23 days ) . the coarctation site was crossed and the balloon inflated in all but one patient . in two patients with associated severe isthmal hypoplasia there was no change in the gradient after dilatation . in the remainder , the residual gradients were trivial and angiography showed complete relief of coarctation . severe recoarctation developed 5-12 weeks after dilatation in five patients , each considered to have had an excellent initial result . the coarctation was rapidly progressive in three patients in whom doppler studies within two weeks of the development of recoarctation had shown no significant gradient . in the other two patients progressive restenosis was charted by doppler examinations over the course of 6-8 weeks . three patients had a second , initially successful , dilatation procedure . one patient remained well with no residual gradient 18 weeks later . stenosis recurred within eight weeks in the other two , and both have undergone successful surgical repair . balloon dilatation of a native coarctation of the aorta gave excellent immediate results in most neonates . severe isthmal hypoplasia is , however , a contraindication to balloon dilatation and early restenosis is an important problem . these results do not support the continued use of primary balloon dilatation of coarctation of the aorta in neonates . 
plasma concentrations of methadone during postoperative patient-controlled extradural analgesia . plasma concentrations of methadone were measured by gas chromatography in 16 patients receiving extradural methadone by continuous infusion for relief of postoperative pain . venous blood samples were taken after a loading dose of extradural methadone 2 mg and during infusion of 0.46 mg h-1 plus patient-controlled increments of 0.2-1 mg . mean ( sd ) plasma concentration of methadone was 9.8 ( 2.1 ) ng ml-1 at 15 min ; this did not change significantly during the first 2 h , after which it increased gradually to 32.2 ( 4.6 ) ng ml-1 ( p less than 0.001 ) at the end of 24 h. the mean quantity of extradural methadone required to produce effective analgesia was 10.3 ( 1.8 ) mg during the first 12 h after operation and 6 ( 1.0 ) mg for the subsequent 12 h. the mean amount of methadone for effective analgesia on the second day was 7.6 ( 1.1 ) mg . no adverse effects were detected during the 2-3 days of methadone therapy . plasma concentration of methadone increased significantly during patient-controlled infusion of extradural methadone in the first 24 h after operation , suggesting rapid vascular uptake . systemic activity of the drug contributes to the analgesic effect of extradural methadone . 
comparison of four pulse oximeters : effects of venous occlusion and cold-induced peripheral vasoconstriction . the ability of four pulse oximeters ( the ohmeda 3700 , nellcor n100 and n200 and the datex oscar ) to detect hypoxaemia was determined in the presence of venous obstruction and cold-induced peripheral vasoconstriction . significant increases in detection time for hypoxaemia were found in both cases . there were no significant differences in detection time between the instruments , although the ohmeda 3700 displayed smaller values of sao2 under certain conditions . peripheral vasoconstriction was induced using three differing methods which gave differing results , thus emphasizing the importance of methodology in assessments of pulse oximetry . 
serum acute phase proteins after orthotopic liver transplantation . acute phase proteins were measured in six patients before liver transplantation and for 72 h after orthotopic liver transplantation . the ability of the donor liver to mount an acute phase response was demonstrated , although the response was less than that seen in other groups of patients in whom this has been studied . because of the reduced response to stress , the value of these measurements as indicators of liver function in this group of patients is limited . 
muscle relaxation rates in individuals susceptible to malignant hyperthermia . muscle relaxation rate following a tetanic stimulus of adductor pollicis muscle was measured prospectively in 26 patients potentially susceptible to malignant hyperthermia ( mh ) the day before a muscle biopsy was obtained for mh in vitro screening . eleven subjects were found to be mh susceptible ( mhs ) and 15 subjects mh-negative ( mhn ) . in all patients , relaxation rate was recorded at three different temperatures of the skin overlying adductor pollicis ( 30 , 34 and 38 degrees c ) achieved by a small surface heating unit placed over the thenar eminence . the mhs group exhibited slightly higher relaxation rate at 34 and 38 degrees c compared with the mhn group and this difference was accentuated with increasing temperature , but was not statistically different . the results of the present study suggest that relaxation rates are normal in mhs individuals under physiological conditions and can not be used diagnostically for mh screening . 
extradural abscess following local anaesthetic and steroid injection for chronic low back pain . a case is described of extradural abscess following extradural injection of local anaesthetic and steroid for the management of chronic low back pain . the common signs and symptoms are reviewed , possible causes discussed and the association with diabetes stressed . 
prolonged paralysis following suxamethonium and the use of neostigmine . a case of prolonged neuromuscular block following the administration of suxamethonium is reported . three hours after administration of suxamethonium , a well defined , recovering phase ii block was demonstrated with a t4 : t1 ratio of 0.25 , and neostigmine was administered . although the t4 : t1 ratio was improved to 0.9 , t1 remained at 25 % of control , and significant paralysis persisted which responded to administration of cholinesterase . it is concluded that neuromuscular monitoring can not reliably predict reversibility in such cases and that , even after 3 h , antagonism of prolonged suxamethonium block should commence with cholinesterase , followed by neostigmine if necessary . 
randomized comparison of routine vs highly selective use of doppler ultrasound and biophysical scoring to investigate high risk pregnancies objective -- to compare routine versus highly selective use of doppler ultrasound and biophysical scoring in higher risk pregnancy . design -- a pragmatic randomized trial . setting -- st james 's university hospital , leeds . subjects -- 500 pregnant women at high risk of intrauterine growth retardation or still birth . interventions -- regular monitoring with biophysical profile assessment and doppler velocity waveform recording in umbilical and uteroplacental arteries . results immediately available to clinicians . main outcome measures -- gestational age at delivery , obstetric intervention rates and short-term neonatal morbidity . results -- risk factors were distributed very evenly between the 250 patients in the study and control groups respectively . a total of 902 biophysical profile and doppler assessments were done in the 250 study group patients and only in 12 patients in the control group . in the study group , absent end-diastolic flow was found in only 2.7 % of all 902 measurements . a persistently abnormal biophysical score was always associated with absence of end-diastolic flow . the mean gestational age at induction of labour was statistically and clinically similar in the two groups and there was no overall statistically significant difference in intervention rates between the two groups . there was a statistically significant lower frequency of depressed 5-min apgar scores in the study group . serious neonatal morbidity was also statistically significantly more common in the control group than in the study group . conclusions -- the use of doppler ultrasound in higher risk pregnancies does not lead to an increase in iatrogenic preterm delivery . the total rate of positive tests on doppler ultrasound is very low and persistently abnormal biophysical scores are unlikely to be found in patients where umbilical end-diastolic blood flow is present . surrogate measures for fetal damage seem to be improved when clinicians have access to doppler ultrasound assessments . 
hormone implants and tachyphylaxis . the serum oestradiol levels of 1388 women treated with hormone implants at a menopause clinic were reviewed in 1988 . thirty-eight ( 3 % ) were found to be above 1750 pmol/l . of these 38 women with supraphysiological oestradiol levels 23 had started therapy for menopausal symptoms and 15 for the premenstrual syndrome ( pms ) . of the 23 women treated for menopausal symptoms 11 had a history of psychiatric referral for depression and nine had undergone a surgical menopause . nine of the 15 women with pms had a history of psychiatric referral for depressive symptoms . we conclude that the women who attain supraphysiological levels of oestradiol on implant therapy have a high frequency of psychopathology or surgical menopause and may require higher oestradiol levels for adequate control of symptoms . 
fluorosilicone oil in the treatment of retinal detachment . we evaluated the use of a heavier-than-water fluorinated silicone oil in the treatment of 30 selected cases of complicated retinal detachment from january 1988 to july 1989 . proliferative vitreoretinopathy grade c-2 or greater accounted for 19 cases , proliferative diabetic retinopathy with traction detachment for two cases , giant retinal tears five , ruptured globe with retinal detachment two , massive choroidal effusion with retinal detachment one , and acute retinal necrosis with retinal detachment one . initial retinal reattachment was achieved in all cases . complications included redetachment seven ( 23 % ) , cataract six ( 75 % of phakic patients ) , raised intraocular pressure four ( 13 % ) , hypotony four ( 13 % ) , keratopathy three ( 10 % ) , uveitis-synechia formation three ( 10 % ) , phthisis two ( 3 % ) , choroidal haemorrhage one ( 3 % ) , and vitreous haemorrhage one ( 3 % ) . postoperative visual acuities with at least six months ' follow-up range from no light perception to 20/50 , with seven patients ( 23 % ) 20/400 or better . 
linear scleroderma associated with ptosis and motility disorders . a case is reported in which an 11-year-old girl developed progressive ptosis and a subsequent motility disorder of the right eye . the diagnosis linear scleroderma en coup de sabre was established . atrophy of the upper levator palpebral and superior rectus muscle could be shown on ct scan . 
bleeding complications associated with cardiopulmonary bypass . bleeding after cpb has been difficult to characterize and its treatment equally difficult to standardize . the complexity of this problem is related to the hemostatic process , the technical variations in the operative procedures , and the many uncontrolled variables associated with cpb , including the effects of anesthetic or pharmacologic agents , the nature of the priming solution , hemodilution , hypothermia , the type of oxygenator , and the use of transfused blood products . although there are multiple and generally predictable complex changes in the hemostatic mechanism during cpb , the temporary loss of platelet function is the most common and clinically relevant . this transient platelet dysfunction occurs in all patients undergoing cpb ; however , it only causes excessive bleeding in a small percentage of patients . unfortunately , it has not yet been possible to predict which patients will develop hemorrhagic complications , although prolonged pump times are a contributing risk factor . over the past decade there has been extensive investigation into the management of bleeding associated with cpb , provoked primarily by the increased awareness of transfusion-transmitted viral diseases and the inappropriately excessive use of homologous blood products . several approaches to autotransfusion of shed blood and autologus blood donation have been developed to minimize perioperative homologous blood transfusion . pharmacologic agents such as desmopressin , aprotinin , and topical fibrin glues have also been introduced to improve hemostasis during cpb . the protease inhibitor aprotinin is particularly promising in the reduction of bleeding associated with cpb when given prophylactically . aprotinin may provide new insights into the mechanism of cpb-induced platelet dysfunction . desmopressin is indicated only for the treatment of bleeding after cpb . the management of bleeding associated with cpb will undoubtedly . 
all-trans retinoic acid as a differentiation therapy for acute promyelocytic leukemia . i. clinical results . twenty-two patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia were treated with all-trans retinoic acid ( ra , 45 mg/m2 per day ) for 90 days . of the 22 , four patients were previously untreated , two were resistant after conventional chemotherapy , and 16 were in first ( n = 11 ) , second ( n = 4 ) , or third ( n = 1 ) relapse . we observed 14 complete response , four transient responses , one failure , and three early deaths . length of hospitalization and number of transfusions were notably reduced in complete responders . correction of coagulation disorders and an increase of wbcs were the first signs of all-trans ra efficacy . morphologic analysis performed at days 0 , 15 , 30 , 45 , 60 , and 90 showed that complete remissions were obtained without bone marrow ( bm ) hypoplasia . presence of auer rods in the maturing cells confirmed the differentiation effect of the treatment . at remission , the t ( 15 ; 17 ) initially present in 20 patients was not found . the in vitro studies showed a differentiation in the presence of all-trans ra in 16 of the 18 tested cases . the single nonresponder to all trans ra in vitro did not respond in vivo . adverse effects of ra therapy -- skin and mucosa dryness , hypertriglyceridemia , and increase of hepatic transaminases -- were frequently noted . we also observed bone pain in 11 patients and hyperleukocytosis in four patients . whether maintenance treatment consisted of low-dose chemotherapy or all-trans ra , early relapses were observed . five patients are still in complete remission ( cr ) at 4 to 13 months . our study confirms the major efficacy of all-trans ra in m3 , even in relapsing patients . remissions are obtained by a differentiation process . 
all-trans retinoic acid in acute promyelocytic leukemias . ii . in vitro studies : structure-function relationship . all-trans retinoic acid induces leukemic cells from patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia ( m3 ) to differentiate in vitro to mature granulocytes which express the cd15 antigen and are capable of respiratory burst function . of 35 m3 samples , only one failed to respond . in eight cases , we compared the efficacy of two naturally occurring isomers of retinoic acid , all-trans ra and 13-cis ra . both isomers induce maximal differentiation at 10 ( -6 ) mol/l . the maximal response was maintained at 10 ( -7 ) mol/l for the all-trans but not for the 13-cis ra . we also observed that the metabolites 4-oxo-all-trans and 4-oxo-13-cis were effective at 10 ( -6 ) mol/l . this 1 order of magnitude difference in the in vitro differentiating potencies of all-trans ra and 13-cis ra in the blasts of promyelocytic leukemias predicts a difference in the clinical efficacy of the two drugs . 
ph-negative chronic myeloid leukemia : molecular analysis of abl insertion into m-bcr on chromosome 22 . leukemic cells from a patient with ph-negative chronic myeloid leukemia ( cml ) had a normal karyotype . m-bcr was rearranged and chromosome in situ hybridization showed an abl insertion between 5 ' and 3 ' m-bcr on an apparently normal chromosome 22 . the association of 5 ' bcr and 3 ' abl at the 5 ' junction of the chromosome 9 insert was typical of that found for the bcr-abl fusion gene in other patients with the standard t ( 9 ; 22 ) and cml . with an m-bcr-3 ' probe , we cloned and characterized a 3 ' junction fragment . field inversion gel electrophoresis and chromosome in situ hybridization studies using a probe isolated from genomic dna 5 ' of the junction showed that 3 ' m-bcr was joined to a region of chromosome 9q34 rich in repetitive sequences and lying some distance 3 ' of abl . the chromosome 9 insert was at least 329 kilobases long and included 3 ' abl and a larger portion of chromosome 9q34 . our results allowed us to exclude transposon - or retroviral-mediated insertion of abl into chromosome 22 . instead , we favored a two-translocation model in which a second translocation reconstituted a standard t ( 9 ; 22 ) ( q34 ; q11 ) but left the chromosome 9 insert , including 3 ' abl , in chromosome 22 . 
postoperative analgesic requirements in patients exposed to positive intraoperative suggestions . objective -- to establish whether positive suggestions given to a patient under general anaesthesia reduce postoperative pain and analgesic requirements . design -- prospective double blind randomised study . setting -- operating theatre and gynaecology ward of a teaching hospital . patients -- 63 woman undergoing elective abdominal hysterectomy were randomised to be played either a tape of positive suggestions or a blank tape during the operation through a personal stereo system . interventions -- three women were withdrawn from the study . anaesthesia was standardised for all of the women . postoperative analgesia was provided through a patient controlled analgesia system for the first 24 hours . pain scores were recorded every six hours . main outcome measures -- morphine consumption over the first 24 hours after the operation ; pain scores . results -- mean morphine requirements were 51.0 mg ( 95 % confidence interval 42.1 to 60.0 mg in the women played positive suggestions ; and 65.7 mg ( 55.6 to 75.7 mg ) in those played a blank tape . the point estimate ( 95 % confidence interval ) for the difference of means was 14.6 mg ( 22.4 % ) ( 1.9 ( 2.9 % ) to 27.3 mg ( 41.6 % ] ( p = 0.028 ) . pain scores were similar in the two groups . conclusion -- positive intraoperative suggestions seem to have a significant effect in reducing patients ' morphine requirements in the early postoperative period . 
bone mineral loss in young women with amenorrhoea . objective -- to examine the impact of amenorrhoea on bone mineral density in women of reproductive age . design -- cross sectional study of 200 amenorrhoeic women compared with normally menstruating controls . setting -- teaching hospital outpatient clinic specialising in reproductive medicine . subjects -- 200 women aged 16-40 with a past or current history of amenorrhoea from various causes and of a median duration of three years , and a control group of 57 age matched normal volunteers with no history of menstrual disorder . main outcome measure -- bone mineral density in the lumbar spine ( l1-l4 ) as measured by dual energy x ray absorptiometry . results -- the amenorrhoeic group showed a mean reduction in bone mineral density of 15 % ( 95 % confidence interval 12 % to 18 % ) as compared with controls ( mean bone mineral density 0.89 ( sd 0.12 ) g/cm2 v 1.05 ( 0.09 ) g/cm2 in controls ) . bone loss was related to the duration of amenorrhoea and the severity of oestrogen deficiency rather than to the underlying diagnosis . patients with a history of fracture had significantly lower bone density than those without a history of fracture . ten patients had suffered an apparently atraumatic fracture . conclusions -- amenorrhoea in young women should be investigated and treated to prevent bone mineral loss . menopausal women with a past history of amenorrhoea should be considered to be at high risk of osteoporosis . 
the sulphated glycosaminoglycan levels in synovial fluid aspirates in patients with acute and chronic joint disease . proteoglycan levels were measured in a series of synovial fluid samples from patients with acute and chronic joint diseases using a modified chemical dye binding method . levels found in 50 miscellaneous inflammatory arthritis fluids ( mean = 173.2 + / - 90.9 micrograms/ml ) were higher than found in either 50 with rheumatoid arthritis ( 96.3 + / - 31.3 micrograms/ml ) or 50 with osteoarthritis ( 83.8 + / - 27.3 micrograms/ml ) . for comparison , proteoglycan levels were measured in 15 cadaver synovial fluids ( 98.9 + / - 44.2 micrograms/ml ) and 12 synovial fluids from patients with sports injury ( 163.7 + / - 79.4 micrograms/ml ) . patients were recruited into a trial where synovial fluid was aspirated as often as possible over a 6-month period during which the patients were followed using a number of well proven clinical parameters . no correlation was found between the degree of joint destruction as measured by x-ray damage and the concentration or total amount of proteoglycan in the synovial fluid . in addition , there was no correlation between the level or total amount of proteoglycan and any clinical parameter of disease activity . 
chronic dehydration stone disease . a study was made of 819 patients attending a metabolic stone clinic . a firm diagnosis was made in 708 ( 86 % ) and in 132 of these ( 19 % ) the diagnosis was thought to be chronic dehydration . the records were available for study for 87 males and 11 females in the chronic dehydration group . the mean age at presentation was 43 years . the causes of chronic dehydration were hot climate ( 62 % ) , with hot occupation and low water intake almost equal in second place . in patients with a single cause of chronic dehydration , 57 % also had a dietary risk factor for urolithiasis and this was most commonly high oxalate intake . following dietary advice , the mean urinary volume increased from 1720 to 2475 ml/24 h. this was accompanied by a rise in mean urinary calcium from 6.02 to 6.96 mmol/24 h , presumably due to the calcium in the additional water drunk . urinary oxalate did not change significantly . the mean follow-up time was 4.85 years and the stone recurrence rate was low . it was concluded that chronic dehydration is a common cause of urolithiasis ; this can be treated satisfactorily by increasing water intake plus dietary advice in certain cases . 
the use of internalised ureteric stents in renal transplant recipients . since 1982 , we have used internal indwelling ureteric stents for the management and prevention of ureteric reconstruction complications in 28 renal allograft recipients . a total of 30 stents were placed in 18 patients either diagnostically or therapeutically in the management of allograft ureteric obstruction . in 16 patients internal stents were placed at the time of reconstruction for primary ureteropyelostomy ( 3 ) , secondary ureteropyelostomy ( 8 ) , repeat reimplant ( 3 ) and repair of ureteric or pelviureteric junction injury ( 2 ) . complications included 3 episodes of transplant pyelonephritis , proximal stent migration ( 1 ) , persistent bacteriuria ( 1 ) and prolonged healing of a ureteropyelostomy ( 1 ) . internalised ureteric stenting is a safe and effective means of managing or preventing ureteric reconstruction complications in renal transplant recipients . 
persistent carcinoma in situ of the testis after chemotherapy for advanced testicular germ cell tumours . the chemosensitivity of testicular carcinoma in situ ( cis ) was analysed in 25 testes excised 10 weeks to 4.5 years following platinum-based chemotherapy . cis was present in 8 of the 23 evaluable cases ( 35 % ) , in 5 of which the lesion coexisted with invasive germ cell tumour . it is concluded that cis may persist or recur after chemotherapy . this has implications for occult presentation of metastatic germ cell tumours and also for the management of the contralateral testis in patients with testicular germ cell tumours . 
intraoperative air testing of colorectal anastomoses : a prospective , randomized trial . a total of 145 consecutive patients receiving a colorectal anastomosis were randomized to ' test ' or ' no test ' once the anastomosis had been completed . anastomotic testing was performed with the pelvis filled with saline and the rectum distended by sigmoidoscopic insufflation of air . any leaks demonstrated were oversewn . a water-soluble contrast enema was performed on the tenth postoperative day . seventy-four patients were randomized to ' test ' and 71 to ' no test ' but one patient was withdrawn from each group leaving a total of 143 for analysis . the two groups were well matched for age , sex , diagnosis and operative details . eighteen ( 25 per cent ) air leaks were detected and repaired in the ' test ' group . after operation there were three ( 4 per cent ) clinical leaks in the ' test ' group and ten ( 14 per cent ) in the ' no test ' group ( fisher 's exact test , p = 0.043 ) . there were eight ( 11 per cent ) radiological leaks in the ' test ' group and 20 ( 29 per cent ) in the ' no test ' group ( p = 0.006 ) . intraoperative air testing and repair of colorectal anastomoses significantly reduces the risk of postoperative clinical and radiological leaks . 
malignant left-sided large bowel obstruction managed by subtotal/total colectomy . of 60 patients presenting with acute obstructing carcinoma of the left colon , 49 underwent immediate resection either by radical subtotal/total colectomy ( 31 patients , group i ) or by radical segmental resection ( 18 patients , group ii ) of whom three had immediate anastomosis after on-table bowel irrigation and 15 had a planned staged procedure . the operative mortality rate was 3 per cent in group i and 11 per cent in group ii ( not a statistically significant difference ) . however , substantial differences were found for major morbidity ( 6 versus 44 per cent in groups i and ii respectively ; p less than 0.01 ) and mean length of hospital stay ( 17 days in group i versus 35 days in group ii ; p less than 0.05 ) . all three patients who had on-table lavage developed anastomotic leaks which necessitated a second operation to form a stoma . six patients ( 19 per cent ) in group i required antidiarrhoeal medication in the immediate postoperative period . however , subsequent improvement in stool frequency was noted in all patients . it is concluded that subtotal/total colectomy is an acceptable means of managing patients with obstructing carcinoma of the left colon in that it is associated with a low morbidity and mortality rate and good functional results . 
blood transfusion and recurrence of colorectal cancer : the role of platelet derived growth factors . efforts to explain the possible effects of blood transfusion on the recurrence of colorectal cancer have been based entirely on the immunosuppressive effects of blood transfusion . however , the relationship between solid tumour development and the immune system is inconclusive . we have investigated an alternative mechanism involving the potential role of growth factors in this phenomenon . using a human fibroblast : [ 125i ] deoxyuridine uptake mitogenesis assay , the relative amounts of growth factor in the plasma of stored blood were measured . there was a progressive increase in mitogenesis from day 0 ( n = 6 ) to day 28 ( n = 6 ; p less than 0.001 , mann-whitney u test ) . the effect of growth factors on the development of liver and intraperitoneal metastases was studied in hooded lister rats . following an intraportal injection of 10 ( 5 ) mc28 tumour cells , the experimental group ( n = 25 ) received 2 ml of syngeneic serum intravenously for 4 days . likewise , colonic anastomoses were performed on omentectomized rats and the peritoneal cavity seeded with 10 ( 3 ) cells . the experimental groups ( n = 20 ) received either 2 ml serum intravenously repeatedly or 3 ml serum intraperitoneally ( n = 19 ) . there was no significant increase in liver metastases or peritoneal disease following intravenous infusion of serum but serum delivered intraperitoneally resulted in a significant increase in tumour from 22 per cent in the controls to 89 per cent in the study group ( p less than 0.01 ) . growth factors released from platelets following blood loss into the peritoneal cavity may be important in enhancing local recurrence of colorectal cancer . 
experimental study of starch-induced intraperitoneal adhesions the effects of starch on the development of postoperative adhesions were examined in 144 sprague dawley rats . groups of rats were injected intraperitoneally with suspensions of washings from starched gloves , starch-free gloves and starch-poor washed gloves , and after operative manipulation of the bowel . the incidence of adhesions was greatest ( 78 per cent ) after laparotomy and injections of starch-rich washings and least when starch-poor ( 33 per cent ) or starch-free glove suspensions ( 37 per cent ) were used , confirming an advantage for washing gloves or switching to starch-free products . 
through-knee amputation in high-risk patients with vascular disease : indications , complications and rehabilitation . during a 10-year period 104 patients ( mean age 72 years ) had 106 through-knee amputations . indications for surgery were : limb gangrene , 67 ( 64 per cent ) ; ischaemic ulceration , 22 ( 21 per cent ) ; rest pain , 9 ; knee contractures , 6 . thirty patients had had previous unsuccessful vascular reconstructive surgery and five had had a failed femoral embolectomy . the through-knee disarticulation used lateral skin flaps . the mortality was 21 ( 20 per cent ) . of the 83 survivors , 59 ( 71 per cent ) underwent uncomplicated primary wound healing ; 36 ( 43 per cent ) of the survivors were unsuitable for rehabilitation on a prosthesis . the remaining 47 ( 57 per cent ) were walking before discharge 30-130 days ( mean 68 days ) after amputation . through-knee amputation is a rapid , relatively bloodless , amputation and is a useful debridement procedure . the many surgical and functional advantages , in conjunction with the recent reports of better rehabilitation compared with the above-knee or gritti-stokes amputation , suggests that the through-knee amputation deserves greater consideration . 
graft stenosis : justification for 1-year surveillance . in all , 412 femorodistal grafts ( femoropopliteal and femorocrural ) , performed between 1984 and 1988 , have been prospectively studied at 6 weeks and 3 , 6 , 9 and 12 months after operation and at intervals of 6 months thereafter by duplex scanning and intravenous digital subtraction angiography . the overall incidence of stenoses was 16 per cent ( femorocrural 20 per cent , femoropopliteal 15 per cent ) . all stenoses were detected in the first year after operation and none occurred after this . twenty-four non-haemodynamically significant stenoses were not treated but were followed at intervals of 3 months . forty-two haemodynamically significant stenoses were detected and secondary procedures were performed in 30 grafts at a mean of 8 months after surgery . thirteen had percutaneous balloon dilatation and six ( 46 per cent ) remain patent at a mean follow-up of 22 months . two grafts which occluded within 30 days and three which restenosed at a mean of 8 months had tertiary procedures . seventeen grafts were surgically revised , nine with patch grafts and eight with bypass grafts . eleven of these remain patent at a mean follow-up of 30 months . one occluded immediately and three occluded late . two grafts which restenosed at a mean of 19 months had successful tertiary procedures . in total , seven grafts had tertiary procedures ( two had balloon dilatation and five had surgery ) and six of these remain patent at a mean follow-up of 13.5 months . in conclusion , 37 procedures have been performed on 30 grafts , of which 23 ( 77 per cent ) remain patent at a mean follow-up of 12 months . approximately one-quarter of femorodistal grafts will develop graft-related stenoses and graft surveillance is worthwhile , but only for the first year after operation . 
acute limb ischaemia : the place of intravenous streptokinase . intravenous streptokinase infusions ( 100,000 units/h ) have been used to treat 48 patients , with 50 episodes of acute limb ischaemia who were unlikely to benefit from a surgical approach . these included 17 acute thromboses , 14 late or distal emboli and 19 bypass graft occlusions . overall , 17 ( 34 per cent ) instances had complete lysis with reappearance of distal pulses and a further 28 per cent had clinical improvement without change in pulse status . final outcome after 30 days was limb salvage in 60 per cent , amputation in 24 per cent and death in 16 per cent , but this was achieved after eight patients without lysis had vascular reconstructive surgery . serious complications were infrequent , but included a fatal stroke , a haematemesis and two episodes of distal embolization . the outcome was not related to the duration of ischaemia or the site of occlusion . lysis was more frequent with emboli ( 50 per cent ) and graft occlusions ( 47 per cent ) than arterial thromboses ( 6 per cent ) . limb salvage was more likely in patients with no neurological deficit in the limb ( 70 per cent ) than if a deficit was present ( 37 per cent ) . in conclusion , intravenous streptokinase produced a moderate benefit with low morbidity and has a role in acute limb ischaemia if surgery is inappropriate and intra-arterial lysis unavailable . in particular , selected patients with emboli or graft occlusions without a neurological deficit may be most suitable . 
on-table pancreatography : importance in planning operative strategy . we describe our experience with 124 on-table pancreatograms performed during 117 operative procedures on 112 patients in a wide variety of clinical settings . endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography ( ercp ) was performed on 84 occasions with a 73 per cent success rate for visualization of the main pancreatic duct . on-table pancreatography ( otp ) was performed by one of five different techniques : retrograde , prograde or ambigrade ductography , cystography and ascending loopography after pancreaticojejunostomy . otp provided important information about the main pancreatic duct when endoscopic visualization was unsuccessful ( n = 23 ) , incomplete ( n = 17 ) or not performed ( n = 33 ) ; there was a failure rate of 4 per cent . in 35 patients either the additional information or discrepancies between ercp and otp findings resulted in a change of operative plan ( 19 extra procedures , 16 altered procedures ) . complete ductography was especially helpful in the 63 patients with chronic pancreatitis . otp is technically simple , free from complications and invaluable for planning operative strategy . 
surgery in patients on long-term steroid therapy : a tentative model for risk assessment . increased morbidity after operation has been associated with long-term steroid therapy . to determine the correlation between steroid therapy and such morbidity , the perioperative course of 55 steroid-treated patients was reviewed : 27 had bronchopulmonary disorders ( group p ) and 28 had non-pulmonary diseases ( group np ) . there were six ( 11 per cent ) deaths , of which three were steroid related . among the 13 non-lethal postoperative complications , eight were considered to be steroid related in group p and one in group np . the duration of steroid therapy was for a median of 24 months ( range 1-408 months ) in group p and for a median of 6 months ( range 1-240 months ) in group np ( p less than 0.01 ) . in contrast , the daily dose of hydrocortisone or equivalent before operation was significantly lower in group p , with a median of 0.51 mg kg-1 day-1 ( range 0.20-2 .56 mg kg-1 day-1 ) than in group np , with a median of 1.20 mg kg-1 day-1 ( range 0.23-7 .38 mg kg-1 day-1 ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . in conclusion , bronchopulmonary disorders requiring a long duration of steroid therapy are associated with a higher risk of steroid-related complications after surgery . a convenient mathematical model is proposed which may allow a preoperative assessment of surgical risk , using steroid dose and duration of treatment . 
erythema infectiosum and pregnancy-related complications erythema infectiosum , an acute , communicable viral disease with a highly distinctive exanthem , follows the usual course of a self-limiting benign disease . in pregnant women , however , it may be associated with fetal death and nonimmune hydrops fetalis . because of the association of human parvovirus ( hpv ) b19 infection with fetal damage we reviewed the current knowledge of the clinical aspects of erythema infectiosum , focusing on pregnancy and fetal outcome , to determine the magnitude of fetal risk and offer recommendations for management . among 180 infected pregnant women 44 fetal deaths ( 24 % ) occurred , 1 to 12 weeks after the infection was noted . pregnant women should be advised that ( a ) because of the high prevalence ( up to 65 % ) of anti-hpv b19 igg antibody among adults most of them are not at risk and ( b ) if maternal infection does occur therapeutic abortion is not indicated since intrauterine infection causes fetal death more often than abnormal development . infection should be suspected in pregnant women who exhibit the symptoms of erythema infectiosum with or without arthropathy . they should be monitored for an elevated serum alpha-fetoprotein level ( indicating fetal aplastic crisis ) and undergo serial ultrasonography for the detection of hydrops fetalis . although the incidence of congenital malformation is no higher than the expected rate in the general population ( 3 % to 5 % ) , the precise incidence of fetal adverse outcomes remains unknown and requires investigation in larger , prospective studies . 
toxicity of high-dose cytosine arabinoside in the treatment of advanced childhood tumors resistant to conventional therapy . a pediatric oncology group study . experience with high-dose cytosine arabinoside ( hdac ) in pediatric solid tumors is limited . sixteen children with solid tumors resistant to conventional therapies were registered in a pilot pediatric oncology group ( pog ) study that required the administration of hdac at 3 g/m2 every 12 hours for four doses . there were four cases of rhabdomyosarcoma , two cases of fibrosarcoma , four cases of neuroblastoma , and one case each of germ cell tumor , wilm 's tumor , retinoblastoma , hepatocellular carcinoma , ewing 's sarcoma , and burkitt 's lymphoma . all eligible patients had advanced diseases and had previously received extensive chemotherapy . thirteen patients received one course of hdac and three patients received two courses of hdac . due to prior treatments , patients had less than normal marrow reserves . short-term toxicity included nausea , vomiting , suppression of hemopoiesis , drug fever , and increased blood urea nitrogen ( bun ) , creatinine , and liver enzymes . all evaluable patients recovered from their toxicities . there were no drug-related deaths . none of the patients had neurologic problems , including the only patient with prior irradiation to the skull . with the above schedule , hdac appears to have manageable toxicity . 
successful treatment of metastatic thymic carcinoma with cisplatin , vinblastine , bleomycin , and etoposide chemotherapy . thymic carcinomas are rare malignant neoplasms of the thymic epithelium that are distinguished from the malignant thymomas by the presence of cytologic atypia . thymic carcinomas may metastasize outside of the thorax and are associated with a very poor prognosis . complete responses of thymic carcinoma to chemotherapy alone have not been reported . a 21-year-old man with metastatic undifferentiated carcinoma of probable thymic origin is presented who achieved a pathologic complete response with cisplatin , vinblastine , and bleomycin chemotherapy . additional consolidative chemotherapy with cisplatin and etoposide was administered . the patient remains disease-free 5 years after diagnosis . cisplatin , vinblastine , and bleomycin chemotherapy appears to have significant activity against thymic carcinoma . 
structural and ultrastructural study of the ovary in childhood leukemia after successful treatment . ovarian biopsy specimens from ten girls ( three postmenarcheal ) who had undergone antiblastic treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) and were in complete remission were examined by light microscope . the biopsy specimens from four of these patients ( three postmenarcheal ) were also observed by electron microscope . the structural and ultrastructural analysis showed a reduction in the number of follicles which were otherwise normal . no follicles were found in the thin sections from two of the three postmenarcheal girls , whereas normal follicles were observed in the third . the cortical stroma showed moderate to severe signs of fibrosis and changes of capillaries . all of these alterations were more evident in patients where all was diagnosed at an older age and this finding suggests that they are at a higher risk for low fertility or early menopause . 
an analysis of abnormalities of the retinoblastoma gene in human ovarian and endometrial carcinoma . the altered expression of the human retinoblastoma ( rb ) gene has been demonstrated to play an important role in the pathogenesis of rb and other tumors . to determine whether the rb gene might be involved in the pathogenesis of human ovarian and endometrial cancer , dna from 24 human ovarian tumors , 3 normal ovaries , 3 endometrial carcinomas , and 1 endometrial hyperplasia was examined with an rb complementary dna probe . evidence for homozygous deletion of the rb gene was observed in only one specimen . interestingly , the specimen was an endometrioid tumor of the ovary of low malignant potential ( lmp ) . this patient experienced rapid progression of the tumor and died 8 months after diagnosis . abnormalities of the rb gene may be involved in the aggressive biologic behavior of certain forms of ovarian carcinoma , particularly those of lmp . 
growth and spread of hepatocellular carcinoma . a review of 240 consecutive autopsy cases . all 240 consecutive cases of hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) that underwent autopsy at the national cancer center hospital ( tokyo , japan ) between september 1962 and august 1986 were reviewed . among these cases , 162 , for which photographs of cut surfaces of the primary tumors were available , were grossly classified using a combination of both eggel 's classification and our own into three major types , i.e. , nodular , massive , and diffuse as described by eggel ( eggel h , beitr pathol anat 1901 ; 30:506 -604 ) , and three subgroups of nodular type , i.e. , single nodular type ( type 1 ) , single nodular type with extranodular growth ( type 2 ) , and contiguous multinodular type ( type 3 ) by our classification ( kanai t et al. , cancer 1987 ; 60:810 -819 ) . seventy-eight cases were classified as nodular type , comprising seven cases of type 1 , 61 cases of type 2 , and ten cases of type 3 . sixty-seven and 17 cases were classified as massive and diffuse type , respectively . of the 78 nodular-type tumors , 59 measured less than 10 cm , whereas 64 of 67 massive-type tumors were 10 cm or more in size . the incidence of intrahepatic and extrahepatic tumor spread of hcc was significantly higher for tumors measuring more than 5 cm . as to the relationship between macroscopic type and tumor spread , the frequency of spread was lowest for type 1 tumors , and high for the other types . intrahepatic metastasis was detected in 28.6 % of type 1 , 93.4 % of type 2 , 100 % of type 3 , and 98.5 % of massive-type tumors . lymph node metastasis was detected in 14.3 % of type 1 , 24.6 % of type 2 , 70 % of type 3 , 38.8 % of massive-type and 52.9 % of diffuse-type tumors . hematogenous extrahepatic metastasis was detected in 14.3 % of type 1 , 47.5 % of type 2 , 70 % of type 3 , 74.6 % of massive-type and 82.4 % of diffuse-type tumors . it appears that not only primary tumor size but also its macroscopic type has an important influence on the growth and spread of hcc . 
dna analysis of multiple synchronous renal cell carcinomas . the authors used retrospective quantitative dna analysis to study interrelationships between multiple synchronous renal cell carcinomas in seven patients . dna content was determined by image analysis on feulgen-stained nuclear smears prepared from multiple paraffin blocks from each tumor . tumors were unilateral in four cases and bilateral in three . ten tumors had homogeneous , and four heterogeneous dna stemlines . intertumoral heterogeneity in four cases suggested multifocal origin . identical dna aneuploid indices in bilateral tumors in one case suggested metastasis from a solitary origin . abnormal dna content and heterogeneous populations began to appear in the size range 2.0 to 5.0 cm . all tumors over 5.0 cm contained nondiploid populations . although the interrelationships between these multiple synchronous neoplasms are not entirely clear , the dna analysis suggests that the occurrence of nondiploid stemlines and heterogeneous dna content may parallel both tumor growth and more aggressive behavior . 
effectiveness of periodic checkup by ultrasonography for the early diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma . periodic checkup by ultrasonography was conducted on patients with chronic liver diseases for early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma . in 19 months , a total of 2004 examinations were performed on a total of 660 cases ( 179 cases with liver cirrhosis in the compensatory stage , younger than 70 years ; 481 cases with chronic hepatitis , aged 40 to 70 years for men and 50 to 70 years for women ) . of the 660 cases , 22 hcc cases ( 3.3 % ) were detected and finally diagnosed by angiography and/or histologic examination . four of those cases ( 18 % ) had a single nodule smaller than 1 cm in diameter , and 11 cases ( 50 % ) had a single nodule smaller than 2 cm . surgical resection was performed on 12 cases ( 55 % ) . in comparison with the control group ( 83 hcc cases not receiving any periodic checkup ) , the frequency of small liver cancer and the surgical resection rate in the study group were significantly higher . this examination system by periodic ultrasonography checkup of patients with chronic hepatic diseases was effective for early detection and permitted aggressive therapy of hepatocellular carcinoma . 
genetic diagnosis of lynch syndrome ii in an extended colorectal cancer-prone family . knowledge of colon cancer genetics , with particular attention to precision in hereditary cancer syndrome diagnosis , can often enable highly targeted surveillance and management strategies for patients at high genetic risk . unfortunately , the patient 's family history of cancer is often given minimal attention , and knowledge of hereditary cancer syndromes is frequently limited . indeed , many physicians still consider familial adenomatous polyposis ( fap ) as the only genetic risk factor for colorectal cancer . this concern with fap was noted in a colorectal cancer-prone kindred which for decades had been thought to manifest that syndrome . however , after meticulous genetic , medical , and pathologic studies , the cardinal phenotypic characteristics of lynch syndrome ii were observed . the potential for cancer control in current and future generations of families like this one clearly mandates the need for computerized registries which could transmit current information about hereditary colon cancer syndrome diagnosis , surveillance , and management . 
effect of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor on neutropenia due to chemotherapy for non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . the authors administered recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( rhg-csf ) to 16 patients with advanced non-hodgkin 's lymphoma treated with combination chemotherapy . groups of three to five patients were treated with 50 , 100 , 200 , and 400 micrograms/m2 per day of rhg-csf by intravenous infusion for 14 days , beginning 3 days after chemotherapy . there was a strong linear relationship between the dose and the area under the curve over this dose range . the rhg-csf was rapidly cleared from serum , with a mean half-life of 5.97 hours for the second phase ( t1/2 ) . in patients treated with a dose of more than 100 micrograms/m2 per day , the duration of neutropenia ( p less than 0.01 ) and the duration of fever ( p less than 0.05 ) were significantly decreased . the rhg-csf was well tolerated and the only clinical observation that appeared relating to rhg-csf administration was slight bone pain . this study strongly suggests that an optimum dose of rhg-csf in patients after chemotherapy is 100 to 200 micrograms/m2 . our study shows that rhg-csf is a clinically useful drug for patients treated with myelosuppressive chemotherapy . 
chemotherapy-related hemolytic-uremic syndrome after the treatment of head and neck cancer . a case report . a 62-year-old woman who was being treated for squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck developed a chemotherapy-related hemolytic-uremic syndrome during the second cycle of neoadjuvant chemotherapy consisting of cisplatin , bleomycin , and methotrexate . though the syndrome was suspected early , attempts at reversing the hematologic and renal abnormalities were unsuccessful . at postmortem examination , the characteristic microvascular lesions of the hemolytic-uremic syndrome were found in the kidneys . 
changes in gastric mucosa that antedate gastric carcinoma . endoscopic biopsy specimens of the gastric mucosa from 13 patients who were found at follow-up examination to have gastric carcinoma were compared for abnormal histologic features , type of intestinal metaplasia , and presence of immunoreactive carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) , with specimens from 40 tumor-free controls . villus-like changes and angular infolding , cytologic nuclear pleomorphism , distinct nuclear border , irregular thickness of the nuclear membrane , irregular chromatin clumping , prominent nucleoli , and distinct nucleoli were manifestations of the carcinoma group . angular infolding , distinct nuclear border , irregular thickness of the nuclear membrane , and distinct nucleoli were also observed in the latent stage before detection of carcinoma . the individual features , however , lacked specificity . histochemically , a iib subtype of intestinal metaplasia , and immunoreactive cea in the cytoplasm of foveolar epithelium appeared exclusively in the patients with carcinoma . these findings indicate that the gastric epithelium of patients with gastric carcinoma tends to be morphologically and histochemically abnormal even before the recognition of classical dysplasia . this can be described as abnormal epithelium and is believed to provide the soil on which gastric carcinoma develops . 
predicting distant metastases in operable breast cancer patients . risk factors for distant metastases following mastectomy and axillary node dissection for breast cancer were analyzed in a review of 1022 women . from diagnosis until the end of the adjuvant treatment , six stages were identified that corresponded well to patient data acquisition . at each stage , a prognosis study based on the cox model was carried out using all acquired information from the first stage . the results demonstrated that tumor size , nuclear pleomorphism , mitotic index , and nodal status at the top of axilla were stable independent risk factors in predicting metastasis-free survival ( mfs ) . these analyses also revealed those factors that were significantly related to mfs at one or several stages and losing their significance at a subsequent stage . this was the case with clinical node status , age , and vascular tumor emboli . other factors such as estrogen , progesterone , histologic grade , and clinical stage were never identified as independent factors at any stage . the four major stable risk factors were used to define a stratification of reference . the results demonstrated that the mere knowledge of clinical information such as tumor size , clinical node status , and age would enable 51 % of the patients to be universally well classified according to that stratification . knowledge of additional factors , such as nuclear pleomorphism and mitotic index , would bring the rate up to 61 % , and then to 64 % if supplementary information such as vascular tumor emboli were acquired . these percentages did not appear high enough to claim that the physician may make a reliable prognosis of operable breast cancer patients before acquiring information from the axillary node dissection . however , it was proven that there exist some subsets of patients with stable prognosis , i.e. , subsets of patients who will belong permanently to the same risk group through the stages . 
catheterization of coronary artery bypass graft from the descending aorta . the increasing frequency of reoperation for coronary artery disease has led to the use of a variety of grafts . this report describes the catheter technique for selective opacification of a saphenous vein graft from the descending thoracic aorta to the posterior coronary circulation . 
influence of catheter technology and adjuvant medication on acute complications in percutaneous coronary angioplasty . we report on the complication rates in 660 consecutive coronary angioplasties ( 725 lesions ) performed using four procedures that differed with respect to catheter technology and adjuvant medication . after the ptca regimen in our laboratory had been changed from conventional steerable systems to the monorail technique , we observed a significant increase in the incidence of transient vessel occlusions from 2.6 % to 7.7 % , of permanent occlusions from 3.6 % to 8.8 % , and of intracoronary thrombus-formation from 2.6 % to 5.5 % . this was associated with the frequent observation of thrombotic material on the partially teflon-coated guidewires . coronary perfusion with urokinase ( 1,670-6 ,670 u/min ) lead to a further increase in the complication rates ( 10.4 % / 10.3 % / 6.5 % ) . our present percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) - regimen ( monorail technique with p.e.t. balloons , fully silicon-coated guidewires , no urokinase ) shows an incidence of 3.8 % for intermittent and recurrent coronary occlusions and 1.9 % for permanent occlusions . urokinase did not prevent intracoronary thrombus formation with the monorail technique . furthermore , we suspect that in the case of ptca-induced regional intimal dissection , fibrinolysis can prevent reestablishment of intima adherence to the vessel wall . because five procedural deaths were observed in the 212 patients treated with i.c. urokinase as opposed to three deaths in the 448 procedures without urokinase , we feel that i.c. urokinase in ptca is a potentially harmful regimen . we suggest that the monorail technique should be performed with fully silicon-coated guidewires and without urokinase . 
physical examination and echo doppler study in the assessment of femoral arterial complications following cardiac catheterization . femoral arterial complications following cardiac catheterization have been well recognized . the development of an inguinal mass in these patients can represent a simple hematoma , a pseudoaneurysm , or an arteriovenous fistula . the utility of the physical examination in diagnosing these complications was assessed by using the echo doppler study for comparison . this study shows that any single clinical sign should not be used in isolation , but a constellation of physical findings can suggest the correct diagnosis . 
percutaneous puncture of a nondeflatable coronary artery angioplasty balloon . we report a case in which a balloon catheter became permanently inflated in a coronary artery saphenous vein bypass graft . while still inflated , the balloon was forcibly withdrawn from the graft into the external iliac artery and successfully deflated via percutaneous puncture using a chiba needle . 
correction of subclavian artery stenosis by percutaneous angioplasty . subclavian artery stenosis is an infrequently recognized cause of left-sided chest and arm pain that can mimic the signs and symptoms of angina pectoris . in addition , more proximal subclavian artery stenoses can be associated with cerebrovascular symptoms in the " subclavian steal syndrome . " this article reviews the clinical experience in four patients who presented with different manifestations of subclavian artery stenosis and who were all successfully treated by percutaneous angioplasty . their clinical presentation , angiographic findings , and post-angioplasty results are documented . in conclusion , it is felt that nonsurgical correction of critical subclavian artery stenosis , using current angioplasty techniques , is the preferred method of treatment . 
treatment of ventricular tachycardia induced cardiogenic shock by percoronary chemical ablation . incessant ventricular arrhythmias pose an especially challenging therapeutic dilemma . we describe the successful treatment and follow-up of a patient with refractory ventricular tachycardia-induced cardiogenic shock with percoronary chemical ablation . after endocardial mapping was used to identify the " tachycardia-related " coronary artery , temporary termination of the arrhythmia with balloon occlusion and subselective intracoronary installation of iced saline as previously advocated was unsuccessful . this was probably due to a dual arterial blood supply to the arrhythmogenic focus . however , infusion of 2 cc ethanol ( 99 % ) permanently terminated the arrhythmia . contrary to previous experience , ethanol-induced arrhythmia termination did not result in arterial occlusion , further supporting a direct toxic effect on the myocardium as its mode of action . use of standard angioplasty balloon inflation prevents " backwash " of distally infused ethanol and more generalized cell death . the only complication of this procedure was temporary third-degree av block , requiring permanent pacemaker implantation . 
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of gastroepiploic artery graft . the right gastroepiploic artery is being used as a third arterial conduit for coronary artery bypass surgery . presented here is a case demonstrating successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of the gastroepiploic artery graft . this successful accomplishment may avoid repeat surgical revascularization in case of failure of the gastroepiploic artery graft , hence may encourage people to use it more often . 
temporary cardiac pacing using a new , steerable , balloon-tipped pacing catheter . a new balloon-tipped , flow-directed , steerable pacing catheter for unipolar temporary ventricular pacing is presented . it was successfully and uneventfully tested in 25 patients with acute myocardial infarction in the coronary care unit . the main advantage of the new catheter is the ease with which a stable contact may be achieved between the pacing electrode and the endocardium . 
reduction of postoperative morbidity following patient-controlled morphine the present study examined the impact of two methods of pain management on recovery in 38 women undergoing hysterectomy . one group received iv morphine in the recovery room and im morphine on the ward on a prn basis ( prn group ) . in the other group , a loading dose of morphine 8 mg iv was given when the patient first complained of pain and patient-controlled iv morphine ( pca ) was initiated and continued for 48 h ( pca group ) . both groups received similar amounts of morphine overall , differently distributed over time . the pca patients received 8 mg.h-1 in the recovery room ( approximately 2.5 hrs ) and less thereafter . the prn patients received approximately 2 mg.h-1 for the entire 48-hr period . pain control was better throughout convalescence and less variable across time with pca management . minute ventilation also recovered faster and by day four was 25 per cent above the preoperative baseline in the pca group . in addition , oral temperature became normal one day earlier , ambulation recovered more rapidly and patients were discharged from hospital earlier . the data suggest that early treatment with relatively high , self-titrated morphine doses may alter the course of the metabolic response to surgery . 
brachial plexus block with a new local anaesthetic : 0.5 per cent ropivacaine a new local anaesthetic , ropivacaine hydrochloride , was used in a concentration of 0.5 per cent in 32 patients receiving a subclavian perivascular block for upper extremity surgery . one group ( n = 15 ) received 0.5 per cent ropivacaine without epinephrine and a second group ( n = 17 ) received 0.5 per cent ropivacaine with epinephrine in a concentration of 1:200,000 . anaesthesia was achieved in 87 per cent of the patients in both groups in all of the c5 through t1 brachial plexus dermatomes . motor block was profound with 100 per cent of patients in both groups developing paresis at both the shoulder and hand and 100 per cent developing paralysis at the shoulder . there was a rapid initial onset of sensory block ( a mean of less than four minutes for analgesia ) with a prolonged duration ( a mean of greater than 13 hr of analgesia ) . the addition of epinephrine did not significantly affect the quality or onset of sensory or motor block . the duration of sensory block was reduced by epinephrine at t1 for analgesia and at c7 , c8 , and t1 for anaesthesia . the duration of sensory block in the remaining brachial plexus dermatomes as well as the duration of motor block was not effected by epinephrine . there was no evidence of cardiovascular or central nervous system toxicity in either group with a mean dose of 2.5-2 .6 mg.kg-1 ropivacaine . 
neurological phenomena during emergence from enflurane or isoflurane anaesthesia . during emergence from anaesthesia , transient neurological signs that would usually be considered pathological may appear . the objective of this randomized , patient ( n = 30 ) and observer-blinded study was to compare prospectively the incidence and duration of post-anaesthetic neurological abnormalities in healthy patients undergoing minor elective procedures following thiopentone and succinylcholine induction , and enflurane-n2o or isoflurane-n2o anaesthesia . patients were studied for 60 min after anaesthesia . arousal state , muscle tone , deep tendon reflexes , plantar reflex , sustained clonus , shivering , intense muscular spasticity and temperature were assessed . results of neurological examination were correlated with the patient 's state of arousal . transient emergent neurological abnormalities occurred more frequently following enflurane-n2o anaesthesia than isoflurane n2o anaesthesia . this was statistically significant ( p less than 0.05 ) for quadriceps hyperreflexia , upgoing toes ( positive babinski reflex ) and intense muscular spasticity . neurological abnormalities occurred most commonly 5-20 min after anaesthesia and all abnormalities resolved within 60 min . following enflurane anaesthesia , as patients became more alert the incidence of abnormalities declined , while the arousal state did not affect the incidence of abnormalities after isoflurane . there was no significant difference between axillary temperatures of those patients who shivered and those who did not . in conclusion , temporary emergent neurological abnormalities occurred more often following enflurane-n2o than after isoflurane-n2o anaesthesia . 
hyperkalaemia during rapid blood transfusion and hypovolaemic cardiac arrest in children . a morbidity and mortality review documented a high occurrence of hyperkalaemia in cardiac arrests associated with rapid blood transfusion , which resulted in further study . in order to stimulate events during rapid blood transfusion and cardiac arrest , the central circulation was modeled as a linear one compartment , and used to stimulate a child who suffered a hypovolaemic cardiac arrest and was resuscitated with rapid blood transfusion ( rbt ) . the simulation suggested that the combination of rbt and a low cardiac output state could be associated with hyperkalaemia , if the potassium concentration in the plasma fraction of the transfused blood was greater than or equal to 10 mmol.l-1 . in an associated clinical study the plasma potassium concentration during cardiac arrest was documented from a retrospective review of 138 cardiac arrests in a paediatric population . patients were divided into two groups . the rbt-group received a rapid blood transfusion during resuscitation . the non-rbt group did not receive blood during resuscitation . during cardiac arrest the plasma [ k ] in the non-rbt group was 5.63 + / - 2.39 mmol.l-1 compared with 8.23 + / - 1.99 mmol.l-1 in the rbt-group ( p less than 0.05 ) . the hyperkalaemia during cardiac arrest in the rbt-group could be explained as a consequence of rbt to a hypovolaemic child with a low cardiac output . 
side effects of nalbuphine while reversing opioid-induced respiratory depression : report of four cases . nalbuphine hydrochloride , an agonist-antagonist opioid , is reported to reverse the respiratory depression of moderate doses of fentanyl ( 20 micrograms.kg-1 ) and still provide good analgesia . we report four patients having abdominal aortic aneurysm repair in which we attempted to reverse the respiratory depression of large doses of fentanyl ( 50-75 micrograms.kg-1 ) with nalbuphine ( 0.3 mg.kg-1 , 0.1 mg.kg-1 or 0.05 mg.kg-1 ) . nalbuphine reversed respiratory depression in all four patients and the respiratory rate increased from 10 to 23 breaths per minute , end-tidal co2 decreased from 7.0 + / - 0.3 per cent to 5.6 + / - 0.7 per cent , and peak inspiratory pressure after 0.1 seconds increased from 4 + / - 1.4 to 13 + / - 2.6 mmhg . however , hypertension , increased heart rate , and significant increase in analogue pain scores accompanied reversal of respiratory depression . agitation , nausea , vomiting , and cardiac dysrhythmias also were observed frequently . we do not recommend the use of nalbuphine to facilitate early extubation of the trachea after large doses of fentanyl for abdominal aortic surgery . 
the prophylactic use of octreotide in a patient with ovarian carcinoid and valvular heart disease . this case report describes the use of octreotide , a long-acting somatostatin analogue , in the management of a patient with an ovarian carcinoid tumour and severe cardiac valvular disease . this patient underwent laparotomy and tumour resection without complication . anaesthesia was induced with midazolam , fentanyl , and vecuronium , and maintained with isoflurane as well as additional fentanyl and vecuronium . however , we feel that it was the use of octreotide that prevented a life-threatening crisis intraoperatively , and recommend its use in patients with carcinoid syndrome undergoing anaesthesia and surgery . 
vertigo after epidural morphine . severe complications from the use of epidural morphine for analgesia after caesarean section are rare . a case is reported of extreme prostrating vertigo several hours after epidural morphine injection , where the time of onset of the symptom coincided with the expected time of arrival of the morphine within intra-cerebral cerebro-spinal fluid . 
anaesthetic management of the brain dead for organ donation . an increasing number of anaesthetists is being called upon to manage organ donors during organ retrieval procedures . we briefly describe the technical aspects of the surgical procedure together with a guide to the anaesthetic management . the aims of the latter may be summarized as the " rule of 100 " : systolic blood pressure greater than 100 mmhg , urine output greater than 100 ml.hr-1 , pao2 greater than 100 mmhg , haemoglobin concentration greater than 100 g.l-1 . common management problems ( hypotension , arrhythmias , diabetes insipidus , oliguria , and coagulopathy ) are discussed in detail . the intraoperative management of the brain-dead organ donor provides the anaesthetist with the challenge of a major surgical procedure in a subject with important physiological derangements . 
electrotonic influences on action potentials from isolated ventricular cells . this work combines a theoretical study of electrical interactions between two excitable heart cells , using a variable coupling resistance , with experimental studies on isolated rabbit ventricular cells coupled with a variable coupling resistance to a passive resistance and capacitance circuit . the theoretical results show that the response of an isolated cell to an increased frequency of stimulation is strongly altered by the presence of a coupling resistance to another cell . as the coupling resistance gradually is decreased , the stimulated cell becomes able to respond successfully to more rapid stimulation , and then , at levels of coupling resistance that allow conduction between the two cells , the coupled pair of cells exhibits arrhythmic interactions not predicted by the intrinsic properties of either cell . the experimental results show that the isolated rabbit ventricular cell is extremely sensitive to even a very small electrical load , with shortening of the action potential by 50 % with electrical coupling to a model cell ( of similar input resistance and capacitance to the ventricular cell ) as high as 1,000 m omega , even though the action potential amplitude and current threshold are very insensitive to the electrical load . 
role of calcium and the calcium channel in the initiation and maintenance of ventricular fibrillation . the cellular events during the initiation and maintenance of ventricular fibrillation ( vf ) are poorly understood . we developed a nonischemic , isolated , perfused rabbit langendorff preparation in which sustained vf could be induced by alternating current ( ac ) and which allowed changes in perfusate composition . we also used na ( + ) - k + pump inhibition ( 10 microm ouabain or k ( + ) - free perfusate ) to induce vf . ac stimulation or na ( + ) - k + pump inhibition always initiated vf . calcium channel blockade by verapamil or nitrendipine uniformly inhibited the initiation of vf in both models . during na ( + ) - k + pump inhibition , 1 ) vf was prevented by calcium channel blockade , despite evidence of ca2 + overload , and 2 ) abolition of spontaneous sarcoplasmic reticulum-generated cytosolic ca2 + oscillations by ryanodine or na + channel blockade with tetrodotoxin did not prevent vf initiation . lowering extracellular [ ca2 + ] to 80 microm uniformly prevented the initiation of vf due to na ( + ) - k + pump inhibition but not that due to ac stimulation . vf maintenance also was studied using 1 ) reduction in perfusate [ ca2 + ] , 2 ) blockade of ca2 + channels , or 3 ) electrical defibrillation . decreasing the perfusate [ ca2 + ] to 80 microm resulted in defibrillation during vf whether induced by ac or na ( + ) - k + pump inhibition . verapamil or nitrendipine also resulted in defibrillation regardless of the initiation method . electrical defibrillation was successful only in ac-induced vf . the results demonstrate that vf can be initiated and maintained in a nonischemic rabbit langendorff preparation . the data suggest that increases in slow channel ca2 + flux , as opposed to increases in cytosolic ca2 + per se , were necessary for the initiation and maintenance of vf . the data , however , do not exclude an important role for cytosolic ca2 + in the modulation of vf . 
vagal modulation of the rate-dependent properties of the atrioventricular node . vagal effects on atrioventricular ( av ) nodal conduction are accentuated by increases in heart rate . to establish the mechanism of these rate-dependent negative dromotropic actions , we studied the properties governing av nodal adaptation to changes in heart rate in chloralose-anesthetized dogs in the absence and presence of bilateral cervical vagal nerve stimulation ( 20 hz , 0.2 msec ) . stimulation protocols were applied to evaluate the contributions of changes in av nodal recovery , facilitation , and fatigue independently of each other . vagal stimulation slowed av nodal recovery in a voltage-dependent way , increasing the time constant of recovery ( tau r ) from 80 + / - 7 to 194 + / - 16 msec ( mean + / - sem , p less than 0.01 ) at the highest voltage studied . the facilitating effect of a premature ( a2 ) beat was manifested by a leftward shift of the recovery curve ( a3h3 versus h2a3 ) of a subsequent a3 beat . the magnitude of shift depended on the a1a2 coupling interval and was reduced by vagal stimulation at all a1a2 intervals ( maximum shift : control , 63 + / - 12 msec ; vagus , 24 + / - 11 msec ; p less than 0.01 ) . when recovery and facilitation were kept constant , abrupt increases in av nodal activation rate caused a slow ( tau = 75 beats ) increase in ah interval ( fatigue ) . vagal stimulation increased the magnitude of this process ( maximum : control , 11 + / - 2 msec ; vagus , 27 + / - 3 msec ; p less than 0.001 ) , without altering its time course . at activation rates comparable to sinus rhythm in humans , vagal stimulation at an intermediate voltage increased the ah interval by 25 msec . as heart rate increased , vagally induced changes in dynamic processes amplified ah prolongation up to fivefold at maximum rate . the role of vagal changes in individual functional properties depended on heart rate , but slowing of recovery was the single most important factor , constituting over 50 % of overall vagal action at rapid rates . we conclude that vagal stimulation alters the ways in which the av node responds to changes in activation rate and that at rapid rates most of the negative dromotropic action of the vagus is due to changes in the av nodal response to tachycardia . alterations in rate-dependent av nodal properties are a novel and potentially important mechanism through which interventions may affect av nodal conduction . 
reperfusion and readmission of oxygen . pathophysiological relevance of oxygen-derived free radicals to arrhythmogenesis . we have examined the pathophysiological role of readmission of oxygen ( and hence production of oxygen-derived free radicals ) in the initiation of reperfusion-induced arrhythmias by separating , on a temporal basis , readmission flow from readmission of oxygen . isolated rat hearts ( n = 12/group ) were subjected to 10 minutes of regional ischemia and 10 minutes of reperfusion . in controls reperfused with oxygenated solution ( po2 greater than 600 mm hg ) , 92 % of hearts developed ventricular fibrillation ( vf ) during the first 20 seconds of reperfusion , whereas in hearts reperfused with hypoxic solution ( po2 9.3-12 .2 mm hg ) , the incidence of vf was only 17 % ( p less than 0.05 ) . subsequent readmission of control solution ( po2 greater than 600 mm hg ) to the latter group led , within 20 seconds , to the appearance of vf in seven of the 10 hearts ( 70 % ) that had not previously fibrillated . to examine whether hypoxic reperfusion had prevented vf or merely delayed its onset , the studies were repeated in separate groups of hearts with the duration of hypoxic reperfusion extended to 5 minutes . in addition , to examine the partial pressure dependence of the relation , the po2 in the reperfusion solution was set at one of five different levels : greater than 600 , 150-192 .7 , 69-85 .6 , 9.2-14 .8 , or 0.0 mm hg . it was found that hypoxia merely delayed vf onset by 20-40 seconds and did not significantly reduce the incidence of vf , which was 83 % , 92 % , 67 % , 58 % , and 58 % , respectively . this indicated that readmission of oxygen is unnecessary for the initiation of vf during reperfusion . the hearts that reverted to sinus rhythm during the ensuing 5 minutes ( n = 8 , 4 , 5 , 9 , and 8 , respectively ) were used to assess the arrhythmogenic consequences of readmission of oxygen . when control solution ( po2 greater than 600 mm hg ) was readmitted , new episodes of vf were elicited within 20 seconds in a manner that was inversely proportional to the preceding po2 ( p less than 0.05 ) , the incidence of new episodes of vf being 0 % , 0 % , 40 % , 67 % , and 86 % , respectively . the arrhythmogenic effect of readmission of oxygen was not the result of a sudden increase in heart rate , because a similar arrhythmogenic effect of readmission of oxygen was seen in separate groups of hearts that were paced ( 350 beats/min ) throughout hypoxia and readmission of oxygen . in conclusion , readmission of flow and readmission of oxygen are independent determinants of reperfusion-induced arrhythmias . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
baffle fenestration with subsequent transcatheter closure . modification of the fontan operation for patients at increased risk ventricular dysfunction , elevated pulmonary vascular resistance , and residual distal pulmonary artery distortion contribute to early mortality after a fontan operation ; they may be transient or reversible . a baffle fenestration , allowing right-to-left shunting , maintains cardiac output and limits right atrial pressure . a baffle fenestration was surgically created at the time of a modified fontan repair in 20 consecutive patients . risk factors included pulmonary artery pressure of 18 mm hg or more , end-diastolic pressure of 12 mm hg or more , valvar regurgitation , pulmonary artery distortion , pulmonary vascular resistance of 2 woods ' units or more , ventricular outflow obstruction , and complex anatomy . nineteen of 20 patients survived . after the operation , mean arterial oxygen saturation was 86 % , mean right atrial pressure was 15 mm hg , and mean duration of pleural effusions was 6 days . twelve of 19 survivors tolerated early test occlusion and had permanent transcatheter umbrella closure . four patients failed early test occlusion , with a significant decrease in venous o2 saturation and a rise in central venous pressure , due to ventricular dysfunction , pulmonary artery distortion , or aortopulmonary collaterals . three of four had successful late closure of the fenestration after correction of these abnormalities . 
late potentials and inducible ventricular tachycardia in surgically repaired congenital heart disease . we compared signal-averaged electrocardiography with invasive electrophysiological study in patients after surgical repair of congenital heart disease to determine if potentially useful correlations exist between the two methods for assessment of risk for ventricular tachycardia . thirty-one patients ( age , 1-49 years ; mean , 10.6 years ) with congenital heart disease repaired with right ventriculotomy or postrepair right bundle branch block ( 77 % postoperative tetralogy of fallot ) who had electrophysiological study were studied with signal-averaged electrocardiography . patients were classified by electrophysiological study results as having no inducible ventricular tachycardia , nonsustained ventricular tachycardia , or sustained ventricular tachycardia . signal-averaged electrocardiograms were examined for the duration of low-amplitude ( less than or equal to 40 microv ) qrs signal , duration of total qrs , and root-mean-square voltage of the terminal 40 msec of the qrs . low-amplitude terminal root-mean-square voltage of 100 microv or less had 91 % sensitivity and 70 % specificity for ventricular tachycardia inducible by electrophysiological study . similar sensitivity but less specificity were seen using the criterion of 20 msec or more total low-amplitude qrs signal ( initial plus terminal ) or using total qrs duration of 128 msec or more . there was a weaker association between terminal low-amplitude qrs signal of 15 msec or more and inducible ventricular tachycardia . 
iliofemoral arterial complications of balloon angioplasty for systemic obstructions in infants and children the medical and radiological records of 64 consecutive infants and children who underwent transfemoral balloon dilation of the aorta or aortic valve were reviewed to determine the incidence , nature , and post-treatment outcome of acute iliofemoral complications . balloon dilation angioplasty or balloon valvotomy was performed with 8f and 9f catheters without an arterial sheath . patients ranged in age from 5 days to 15.4 years ( mean , 6.4 years ) . of 64 patients , 29 ( 45.3 % ) had an acute iliofemoral complication , including thrombosis ( 18 of 64 ) , complete disruption ( five of 64 ) , incomplete disruption ( three of 64 ) , and arterial tear ( three of 64 ) . the arterial pathology was confirmed in 23 of 29 patients by one or a combination of surgical exploration and repair ( 18 of 29 ) , angiography ( six of 29 ) , and magnetic resonance imaging ( three of 29 ) . of eight patients , three with arterial disruption had acute hypotension requiring transfusion and immediate surgery ; the other five had absent pedal pulses after the procedure . of these five , three developed bleeding during thrombolytic therapy and underwent surgical exploration , and two were diagnosed by angiography after ineffective thrombolytic therapy . angiography in three patients with iliac artery avulsion showed tapered occlusion in two and an aneurysm in one . in patients with iliofemoral thrombosis , angiography showed occlusion from the puncture site to the origin of the external iliac artery . eleven patients ( 17 % of the entire group and 38 % of the group with acute iliofemoral complications ) had reduced or absent pedal pulses at the time of discharge . a significant correlation was found between increased incidence of iliofemoral thrombosis and disruption ( as well as abnormal pedal pulses at hospital discharge ) and low patient weight . 
thromboxane receptor blockade prevents pulmonary hypertension induced by heparin-protamine reactions in awake sheep we used competitive thromboxane a2-prostaglandin endoperoxide receptor blockade ( sq 30,741 ) as a probe to evaluate the role of thromboxane in ovine pulmonary vasoconstriction associated with protamine reversal of heparin anticoagulation . control heparin-protamine reactions induced rapid release of thromboxane into arterial plasma ( more than 1 ng/ml plasma ) , a 2.5-fold increase of pulmonary artery pressure , a 20 % decrease of pao2 , and a 30 % reduction in arterial white blood cell concentration . after giving sq 30,741 despite similar thromboxane release into arterial plasma after heparin-protamine challenge , acute pulmonary hypertension was significantly reduced when 94 % of pulmonary vascular smooth muscle thromboxane receptors were occupied with sq 30,741 ( p less than 0.01 at 1 minute after protamine versus control heparin-protamine reaction ) and was completely abolished by a 10 mg/kg i.v. bolus ( p less than 0.0001 at 1 minute after protamine versus control ) . peripheral leukopenia was not affected by sq 30,741 prophylaxis , but hypoxemia was prevented . we conclude that thromboxane causes pulmonary vasoconstriction in ovine heparin-protamine-induced pulmonary hypertension . pulmonary vasoconstriction and hypoxemia can be completely prevented by thromboxane receptor blockade . 
splenic septic emboli in endocarditis . the significance of septic emboli to the spleen is inferred by the frequency of septic emboli in general seen in patients with left-sided infective endocarditis who are referred for valve replacement . to determine the proper management of splenic infarcts and abscess due to septic emboli , we retrospectively reviewed the records of 108 patients with left-sided endocarditis who underwent valvular surgery at the university of illinois hospital from 1980 through 1988 . intravenous drug abuse was the etiology in 68 % ( n = 73 ) . the incidence of splenic infarcts and abscess was 19 % ( n = 20 ) , but an incidental finding of splenic infarcts was found in 38 % ( n = 11 ) of 29 asymptomatic patients who had computed tomograms . streptococci and staphylococci were the causative organisms in 85 % ( n = 17 ) . localized findings were absent in 90 % of splenic infarcts and abscesses . abdominal computed tomograms were diagnostic of the sequelae of splenic septic emboli in 100 % . no patient had intra-abdominal bleeding complications associated with cardiopulmonary bypass . splenectomy was performed in 50 % ( n = 10 ) of patients 3-24 days ( mean , 11.2 days ) after valve replacement . indications for splenectomy included persistent sepsis in 60 % ( n = 6 ) , large ( greater than 2 cm ) and peripheral lesions in 30 % ( n = 3 ) , and splenic rupture in 10 % ( n = 1 ) . perioperative mortality of patients who underwent splenectomy was 30 % ( n = 3 ) . the following conclusions can be drawn : 1 ) splenic septic embolus is common in endocarditis . 2 ) abdominal computed tomography should be performed for all patients . 
clinical and doppler echocardiographic evaluation of bioprosthetic valve failure after 10 years . four hundred thirteen consecutive patients underwent valve replacement with a bioprosthesis between 1976 and 1982 . aortic valve replacement was performed in 240 patients , mitral valve replacement in 132 patients , and multiple valve replacement in 41 . the carpentier-edwards porcine ( n = 336 ) , angell-shiley porcine ( n = 23 ) , hancock porcine ( n = 11 ) , and the ionescu-shiley pericardial valves ( n = 43 ) were inserted . follow-up between 5 and 12 years postoperatively was 98 % complete . freedom from structural valve deterioration was 72 + / - 7 % , 59 + / - 9 % , and 59 + / - 9 % , respectively , after aortic , mitral , and double valve replacement . the risk of structural valve deterioration and reoperation for valve-related complications was significantly increased with the ionescu-shiley pericardial prosthesis . the risk for reoperation was inversely related to patient age . postoperative doppler echocardiographic studies in 87 % of available patients revealed a subgroup of asymptomatic patients with evidence of structural valve deterioration . these patients ( n = 61 ) had significantly reduced prosthetic valve areas ( aortic less than 1 cm2 , mitral less than 1.7 cm2 ) , elevated resting transvalvular gradients ( aortic greater than 40 mm hg ) , or moderate-to-severe regurgitation . in summary , postoperative doppler echocardiographic examination identified asymptomatic patients with structural valve dysfunction . these patients must be followed up carefully to determine the optimal timing of reoperation . 
midterm surgical results of arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries with intact septum . between april 4 , 1984 , and december 31 , 1987 , 156 consecutive neonates with simple transposition of the great arteries underwent an arterial switch operation ( aso ) at our institution . surgery was performed before the age of 15 days in 96 % , and patient weight was less than 3 kg in 28 % . seventeen patients ( 10.9 % ) died after surgery . one patient was lost to follow-up . of the 138 survivors , two died of myocardial infarction 35 and 40 days , respectively , after surgery . they were the only late deaths , and actuarial survival rates were 87 % ( 70 % confidence level [ cl ] , 83-89 % ) at 45 days and 87 % ( 70 % cl , 68-95 % ) at 52 months . another patient had a myocardial infarction 50 days after surgery and is well 50 months later . pulmonary stenosis was observed in 14 patients ( 10.3 % ) during the first year after surgery ; two patients were reoperated on 10 and 12 months , respectively , after aso . aortic regurgitation was observed in 17 patients : two had grades ii and iii , respectively , aortic regurgitation on aortography ; in 15 patients , it was detected only by doppler examination . at the last follow-up ( 2-52 months after aso ; mean , 27.3 + / - 11.3 months ) , all patients were asymptomatic and taking no medication . on bidimensional echocardiography , left ventricular fractional shortening was normal at rest in all survivors but one . one patient had junctional rhythm , and one had wenckebach periods ; the remainder were in sinus rhythm . for as long as 5 years after aso , late death and reintervention were rare ; 99 % of the survivors were asymptomatic and had sinus rhythm and good systemic ventricular function . 
bidirectional cavopulmonary anastomosis as interim palliation for high-risk fontan candidates . early results . thirty-eight patients considered to be at increased risk for a fontan repair underwent bidirectional cavopulmonary anastomosis . twenty-one of the 38 had concurrent pulmonary artery reconstruction . fontan risk factors included pulmonary artery distortion , elevated pulmonary artery resistance ( greater than 2 woods units ) and/or pulmonary artery pressure ( mean , greater than 18 mm hg ) , atrioventricular valve regurgitation , systemic ventricular dysfunction , complex venous anatomy , and subaortic obstruction . there were no deaths , either early or late . median arterial oxygen saturation increased from 79 % to 84 % ( p less than 0.01 ) . median hospital stay was 8 days . no patient had pleural effusions after 7 days . three patients had significant surgical complications . five patients had inadequate relief of cyanosis ; three of these had venous collaterals and two had severe ventricular dysfunction ; the latter two patients subsequently had strokes . one of the patients with persistent cyanosis required a systemic-to-pulmonary artery shunt . we conclude that a bidirectional cavopulmonary shunt , with pulmonary artery reconstruction when indicated , provides adequate relief of cyanosis in most patients with single-ventricle lesions who are considered to be at increased risk for a fontan repair . relief of ventricular volume overload and pulmonary artery distortion may improve fontan candidacy . also , patients with persistent cyanosis after bidirectional cavopulmonary anastomosis should be catheterized for location and occlusion of venous collaterals . further follow-up is necessary to determine the place of bidirectional cavopulmonary anastomosis in the management of patients at increased risk for a fontan repair . 
early diagnosis and surgical intervention of acute aortic dissection by transesophageal color flow mapping . to determine whether transesophageal color doppler echocardiography ( tee ) is useful for the early diagnosis and surgical intervention in acute aortic dissection , 57 serial patients with acute aortic dissection were examined . these patients were evaluated by tee with either the single-plane probe ( 39 patients ) or the biplanar probe ( 18 patients ) just after admission . the intimal flap was detected in all patients , and there were 18 patients with type a dissection and 39 patients with type b dissection . the entry was visualized in 83 % of type a dissection cases and in 90 % of type b dissection cases . in two of 18 patients examined with the biplanar probe technique , the entry was detected in the longitudinal view only . emergency operations were performed in 18 patients with type a dissection and in 10 patients with ruptured type b dissection . twenty-nine of 39 patients with type b dissection were treated conservatively . the operative mortality rate of patients with type a dissection was 22 % , and that of patients with ruptured type b dissection was 60 % . the major advantage of tee is its ease of application at the bedside or in the operating room , which allows immediate and accurate diagnosis of acute aortic dissection for emergency surgical intervention . biplanar tee provides additional acoustic windows , ease of spatial orientation , and more accurate visualization of entry . tee is a useful and powerful diagnostic tool for acute aortic dissection , and by using this method , one may achieve a more rapid and aggressive surgical approach for patients with acute aortic dissection . 
perioperative arrhythmias after fontan repair . arrhythmias are well-recognized sequelae of the fontan repair . a prospective analysis of perioperative arrhythmias after fontan repair was performed . thirty-three patients had 24-hour ambulatory monitoring on the day before surgery and for 24 hours immediately after surgery ; the 27 surviving patients had an additional 24-hour study on the seventh postoperative day . the most common preoperative rhythm was normal sinus , which was present in 79 % . hemodynamically significant preoperative arrhythmias were present in only two patients-atrial flutter ( n = 1 ) and complete heart block ( n = 1 ) . other asymptomatic preoperative arrhythmias included ectopic atrial rhythm ( n = 2 ) , supraventricular tachycardia ( n = 1 ) , accelerated junctional rhythm ( n = 1 ) , and frequent ventricular premature beats ( n = 1 ) . on the first postoperative day , the most common rhythm was accelerated junctional rhythm , which was present in 48 % . hemodynamically significant arrhythmias were present in nine patients ( 27 % ) - rapid accelerated junctional rhythm ( rate , greater than 190 beats/min ) ( n = 3 ) , complete heart block ( n = 2 ) , atrial flutter ( n = 2 ) , supraventricular tachycardia ( n = 1 ) , and ventricular tachycardia ( n = 1 ) . three of six deaths occurring between postoperative days 2 and 7 were in patients with rapid accelerated junctional rhythm and associated low cardiac output . on the seventh postoperative day , the most common rhythm was normal sinus , which was present in 41 % . nine of the 27 surviving patients had complete resolution of their arrhythmias between postoperative days 2 and 7 . on postoperative day 7 , hemodynamically significant arrhythmias were present in four patients-atrial flutter ( n = 2 ) and complete heart block ( n = 2 ) . 
use of single internal mammary artery grafts in older patients . the indications for use of the internal mammary artery as a coronary bypass conduit in older patients are not clearly established . between january 1985 and december 1988 , 786 patients received single internal mammary artery grafts alone ( 717 ) or in conjunction with other procedures ( 69 ) . of these patients , 341 were 65 years of age or older ( mean , 69.3 years ) . this group was compared with those patients less than 65 years of age ( mean , 56.2 years ) . there were no significant differences between the two groups in the incidence of diabetes mellitus ; the number of distal coronary anastomoses ; left ventricular wall motion score ; the frequency of isolated bypass procedures , reoperations , or emergent operations ; or the durations of aortic clamping and cardiopulmonary bypass . the older group contained more women ( 34.9 % versus 20.7 % ) and more patients with left main coronary artery disease ( 15.5 % versus 9.4 % ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . no significant differences in the frequency of reoperation for hemorrhage , perioperative infarction , neurological deficits , requirements for intra-aortic balloon pumping , sternal wound infections , necessity for prolonged ventilatory support , or 30-day mortality ( 2.7 % versus 3.2 % ) were observed . the length of postoperative hospitalization was greater in the older group ( 11.8 versus 10.2 days ) ( p = 0.02 ) . blinded histological examination of biopsies from 61 internal mammary artery grafts ( 34 patients less than 65 years , 27 patients greater than or equal to 65 years ) showed no significant differences in luminal area or wall thickness . no significant degenerative changes were observed in either group . we conclude that the use of the internal mammary artery for bypass grafting in older patients is safe and may provide long-term benefit . 
internal mammary artery and saphenous vein graft patency . effects of aspirin . as part of two department of veterans affairs cooperative trials , we obtained angiographic patency data for internal mammary artery ( ima ) and saphenous vein grafts to the left anterior descending ( lad ) coronary artery at 1 year after coronary artery bypass surgery . patients received either aspirin 325 mg q.d. , aspirin 325 mg t.i.d. , aspirin 325 mg and dipyridamole 75 mg t.i.d. , or placebo . aspirin was initiated either 12 hours before or 6 hours after operation . patients were stratified preoperatively for extent of disease and randomized to the therapies outlined above . there was no randomization to ima versus saphenous vein grafts to the lad . when the patients taking placebo were compared with those taking aspirin , there were no differences in the ima ( 100.0 % versus 92.1 % , p = 0.385 ) or vein graft ( 88.8 % versus 90.4 % , p = 0.675 ) patency rates . the patency rate , irrespective of treatment , for all ima grafts was 92.8 % ( 220 of 237 ) versus 90.1 % ( 345 of 383 ) for all vein grafts to the lad ( p = 0.309 ) . thus , both the ima and vein grafts had excellent patency rates at 1 year . aspirin did not alter this at 1 year , and there were no differences between ima and vein graft patency to the lad . 
dissection of the aorta and dissecting aortic aneurysms . improving early and long-term surgical results . we report the improving surgical results in a consecutive series of 690 patients referred to one of us ( e.s.c. ) for aortic dissection between december 1956 and september 1989 , a substantial portion of whom had dissection as a complication of either previous aortic ( n = 113 , 16 ) or previous cardiac ( n = 54 , 8 % ) operation . our initial operation of choice in patients requiring multiple operations in this group of 690 patients was based on the most life-threatening or symptomatic aortic segment involved , which was ascending aorta and/or aortic arch ( asc/arch ) in 301 ( 44 % ) patients , descending thoracic aorta ( desc ) in 195 ( 28 % ) patients , and thoracoabdominal aorta ( taa ) in 194 ( 28 % ) patients . as detailed below , considerable improvement occurred in the 30-day survival rates over time , particularly for acute dissection : [ table ; see text ] the independent determinants of both early and long-term mortality were identified . independent determinants of late fatal rupture , reoperation , and neuromuscular dysfunction for distal dissectors were also identified . in our experience , continued aggressive surgical intervention for aortic dissection with modern operative techniques has resulted in markedly improved 30-day operative survival ( approaching 95 % including those patients with acute dissection ) and significant improvement in late results . 
progressive coronary luminal narrowing after cardiac transplantation . accelerated coronary disease is a major factor limiting long-term survival in cardiac transplant recipients . coronary angiography was obtained a mean of 5.1 weeks posttransplantation and annually thereafter . replicate projections recorded after nitroglycerine administration were quantitated using computer-assisted edge detection . five hundred and fifteen coronary segments in 25 patients having 1-year follow-up and 353 segments in 18 patients reaching 2-year follow-up were compared with baseline angiograms . significant change was defined as + / - 0.10 mm , equal to 3.8 % change in diameter based on three standard deviations obtained from estimation of measurement error . mean coronary diameter fell from 2.44 + / - 0.26 mm at baseline to 2.21 + / - 0.34 mm ( p less than 0.001 ) at 1-year follow-up . this rate of diameter decline was 20-fold more rapid during the initial posttransplantation year than the rate of change of visually normal segments in nontransplant patients with coronary atherosclerosis elsewhere . there was no significant drop in mean diameter between the first and second year in those patients who had second-year studies . decrease in absolute diameter for vessels greater than 2.9 mm significantly exceeded diameter reduction for smaller vessels but did not differ when considered as a ratio of vessel diameter . in 21 of 25 patients , mean coronary diameter reduction exceeded the three-standard deviation threshold at their last angiogram , but only two of these patients had visually detectable transplant coronary disease . 
mechanical myocardial actuation during ventricular fibrillation improves tolerance to ischemia compared with cardiopulmonary bypass . direct mechanical ventricular actuation ( dmva ) is a unique non-blood-contacting biventricular assist device that provides circulatory support during ventricular fibrillation without demonstrating adverse effects on the myocardium . the purpose of this study was to assess the preservation of myocardial energy stores and myocardial responses to ischemia after circulatory support during ventricular fibrillation with direct mechanical ventricular actuation versus cardiopulmonary bypass . twenty adult mongrel dogs were randomized to receive circulatory support with either cardiopulmonary bypass or direct mechanical ventricular actuation . after 4 hours of ventricular fibrillation , hearts were defibrillated and left ventricular transmural biopsies were obtained . hearts were then excised and subjected to 90 minutes of normothermic total ischemia . serial biopsies were obtained at 15-minute intervals to determine regional depletion of high energy phosphates . the time-to-peak ischemic contracture was recorded by using needle-tipped millar catheters placed in the left ventricular endocardium , epicardium , septum , and right ventricle . time-to-peak ischemic contracture of the endocardium ( 62.6 + / - 1.4 vs. 58.8 + / - 1.0 minutes , p less than 0.05 ) and septum ( 61.1 + / - 6.9 vs. 46.9 + / - 6.2 minutes , p less than 0.004 ) were significantly prolonged after direct mechanical ventricular actuation versus cardiopulmonary bypass , respectively . similar trends were noted in the epicardium and right ventricular regions ; however , these differences were not statistically significant . left ventricular adenosine triphosphate ( atp ) levels were better preserved after direct mechanical ventricular actuation ( 22 + / - 1.5 mumols/g dry wt ) compared with cardiopulmonary bypass ( 17 + / - 1.9 mumols/g dry wt ) . the depletion of left ventricular endocardium atp during normothermic ischemia was significantly delayed after direct mechanical ventricular actuation compared with cardiopulmonary bypass . 
late complications in pediatric cardiac transplant recipients . late complications occurring more than 3 months after cardiac transplantation were analyzed in 29 pediatric patients in whom 31 cardiac transplantations were performed . age at transplantation ranged from 3 months to 18 years ( mean , 11.3 years ) with follow-up ranging from 3.5 to 54 months ( mean , 21.6 months ) . there were seven late deaths and two patients with retransplantations . of nine grafts lost , eight were due to acute rejection , and one was due to coronary disease . four of the grafts lost were secondary to patient noncompliance with prescribed immunosuppression . the mean rejection frequency more than 1 year after cardiac transplantation was significantly higher in those patients who eventually lost their grafts ; however , these patients could not be distinguished by their rejection frequency in the first year . eight patients had coronary disease , with five diagnosed at autopsy , two at cardiac retransplantation , and one by angiography . all eight patients were on double immunosuppression ; none of the 19 patients on triple therapy had coronary disease with similar follow-up . there were 12 serious infections in eight patients ( four associated with okt3 ) with no deaths . five patients had arrhythmias requiring treatment including two pacemakers ; four of the five were associated with rejection episodes . twelve of 29 patients developed early hypertension , and five developed late hypertension ( greater than 1 year ) . there were two malignancies ; one patient with hodgkin 's lymphoma was cured with chemotherapy , and one patient with histiocytic lymphoma was discovered at autopsy . two patients had cholecystectomies , and five patients required laser gingivectomies . 
identification of patients at greatest risk for developing major complications at cardiac surgery [ published erratum appears in circulation 1991 jul ; 84 ( 1 ) :446 ] as part of a prospective program to use risk-adjusted outcome ( operative mortality and morbidity ) as a measure of quality of care , we have analyzed perioperative complication data in 10,634 patients representing 73 % of all patients undergoing cardiac surgery requiring cardiopulmonary bypass at veterans administration medical centers between april 1 , 1987 , and march 31 , 1989 . one or more complications occurred in 15 % of patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting , and in 24 % of patients undergoing valve and other cardiac surgery . patients experiencing one or more complications had an eightfold to 10-fold increase in operative mortality compared with patients with no perioperative complications . the most frequent complication was requirement for mechanical ventilation for at least 48 hours occurring in 8 % of patients undergoing coronary artery bypass and in 15 % of patients undergoing valve and other cardiac surgery ; 24-25 % of these patients died within 30 days of surgery or as a direct result of a surgical complication . previous heart surgery was a strong predictor of development of one or more complications in both groups of patients , being associated with an adjusted relative risk of 1.6-2 .0 . other important predictors in both surgical groups were surgical priority , older age , peripheral vascular disease , and higher serum creatinine . although a number of preoperative risk factors could be identified for the development of renal failure , low cardiac output , and requirement for prolonged mechanical support , few risk factors could be identified for the development of mediastinitis and reoperation for bleeding . this observation suggests that mediastinitis and reoperation for bleeding are more likely the result of technical factors rather than patient-related risk factors . 
iron chelation by deferoxamine inhibits lipid peroxidation during cardiopulmonary bypass in humans . iron catalysis is involved in oxygen-derived free radical generation and subsequent lipid peroxidation , which have been reported to occur during cardiopulmonary bypass in humans . we assessed the effects of the iron chelator deferoxamine on the susceptibility of circulating low density lipoproteins ( ldls ) to induced peroxidation in 20 adult patients ( 10 controls and 10 treated ) undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass for coronary or valve procedures . deferoxamine was given both intravenously ( 30 mg/kg body wt , starting 30 minutes before bypass and extending for the next 4 hours ) and as an additive to the cardioplegic solution ( 250 mg/l ) . blood samples were taken from both atria before and immediately after the end of cardiopulmonary bypass . plasma lipid peroxidation was assessed by measuring spectrophotometrically the thiobarbituric acid reactive substances ( tbars ) content of selectively isolated ldls after their exposure to a peroxidizing agent . before cardiopulmonary bypass , the right and left atrial blood values of ldl-tbars were not significantly different between the two groups . cardiopulmonary bypass resulted in a lipid peroxidation of significantly greater magnitude in control than in treated patients . postbypass right atrial values for ldl-tbars ( expressed in mumol/mmol ldl-phospholipids ) were 45.7 + / - 17.2 ( mean + / - sem ) in control patients and 6.9 + / - 2.9 in treated patients ( p less than 0.02 ) , whereas in the left atrial blood , ldl-tbars yielded values of 62.7 + / - 20.5 and 10.3 + / - 3.9 , respectively ( p less than 0.01 ) . 
treatment with desmopressin acetate in routine coronary artery bypass surgery to improve postoperative hemostasis . desmopressin acetate ( ddavp ) has been shown to decrease blood loss and transfusions in complex cardiac operations with long extracorporeal times . its use in routine cardiac valve operations has been shown not to be beneficial , but its role in routine coronary artery bypass grafting operations has not been defined . we examined the effect of ddavp in a prospective study of 60 patients undergoing uncomplicated primary coronary artery bypass grafting operations . thirty consecutive patients received ddavp ( 0.3 micrograms/kg ) after cardiopulmonary bypass and were compared with 30 consecutive patients who did not receive ddavp . no significant differences were seen in 12-hour mediastinal blood loss ( 465 + / - 207 ml with ddavp versus 511 + / - 221 ml without ddavp ) or 12-24-hour mediastinal blood loss ( 236 + / - 127 ml with ddavp versus 260 + / - 112 ml without ddavp ) . transfusion of blood products were similar for both groups . platelet aggregometry at intraoperative and postoperative time points using adp , collagen , and ristocetin was not significantly different from baseline values in either group . in a subgroup of patients with poor initial ristocetin-induced platelet aggregometry , a significant increase ( p less than 0.05 ) in ristocetin-induced platelet aggregometry was seen postoperatively only in those patients who had received ddavp . a decrease in blood loss and transfusions , however , was not demonstrable . in those patients who had been on aspirin or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs preoperatively , ddavp did not improve mediastinal blood loss or transfusion needs . 
neurological and ophthalmological phenomena after aortic conduit surgery . transient neurological and visual signs have been observed in some patients after valved conduit replacement of the aortic valve and ascending aorta . twenty-seven patients having valved conduit replacement between february 1982 and october 1988 were compared with 21 patients having combined aortic valve replacement ( avr ) and ascending aorta ( aa ) graft replacement . follow-up in 100 % of both groups was obtained for 0.3-6 .6 years ( mean , 2.6 + / - 0.3 years ) . among 20 surviving valved conduit patients , 10 ( 50.0 % ) experienced repetitive neurological and visual signs , including scotomata ( seven ) , transient motor ischemic attacks ( two ) , amaurosis fugax ( four ) , and recurring attention lapses suggesting petit mal seizures ( one ) . no patient with avr + aa graft experienced any events ( p = 0.004 ) . all valved conduit and seven ( 53.8 % ) of avr + aa graft patients were on warfarin ( p = 0.0016 ) . these events retained the same pattern although they diminished in frequency after 12 months in seven patients ( 70.0 % ) and after initiation of dipyridamole in two patients . rehabilitation was similar in both groups : 18 of 20 ( 90.0 % ) valved conduit and 12 of 16 ( 75.0 % ) avr + aa graft patients ( p = ns ) . transient , repetitive , nonprogressive neurological and ophthalmological phenomena are frequent after valved conduit replacement . the pathophysiological mechanism is unclear , but antiplatelet therapy may provide symptomatic control . 
reappraisal of the mechanism for cerebrospinal fluid hypertension during aortic surgery . cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) hypertension during aortic surgery is a poorly understood , multifactorial event that may increase the risk of spinal cord injury . to assess the factors that may contribute to changes in csf pressure during aortic surgery , measurements of ascending arterial and csf pressures were made in 17 anesthetized mongrel dogs . changes in csf patterns were monitored under several conditions tested in random sequence . these included systemic hypertension produced by an infusion of phenylephrine , cross-clamping of the descending thoracic aorta , and manual , superior displacement of the transverse aortic arch ( arch elevation ) , either alone or in conjunction with the cross-clamp . hypertension , cross-clamping , and cross-clamping combined with arch elevation all produced significant increases in ascending mean arterial pressure ( 204 + / - 20 , 170 + / - 8 , and 158 + / - 11 mm hg , respectively , vs. 117 + / - 8 mm hg [ control ] ; ( p less than 0.01 ) . small , nonsignificant increases in csf pressure were detected in the cross-clamp group , but none were detected with hypertension alone , despite significant increases in ascending arterial blood pressure in both groups . thus , neither arterial hypertension nor cross-clamping alone could be demonstrated directly to cause significant csf hypertension . however , when aortic elevation ( displacement ) was combined with cross-clamping , the rise in csf pressure increased to significant levels , even though the ascending arterial hypertension was least severe in this group . in contrast , arch elevation alone did not produce any significant increase in ascending arterial pressure but did produce an approximately 114 % increase in csf pressure ( 15.2 + / - mm hg vs. 7.7 + / - 1 mm hg [ control ] ; p less than 0.01 . 
late results with carpentier-edwards porcine bioprosthesis . from 1977 to 1984 , 429 patients underwent aortic valve replacement ( avr ) , and 339 underwent mitral valve replacement ( mvr ) with a carpentier-edwards bioprosthesis . early mortality for avr was 4.6 % ( isolated avr , 1.9 % ) and for mvr was 5.3 % ( isolated mvr , 4.1 % ) . follow-up was 99.3 % complete at a mean of 5.9 years . actuarial event-free rates at 10 years for avr and mvr were , respectively , 1 ) for structural valve deterioration , 91.4 + / - 3.2 % versus 75.1 + / - 4.0 % ( p less than 0.01 ) ; 2 ) for nonstructural dysfunction , 100 % versus 97.8 + / - 1.6 % ( p = ns ) ; 3 ) for thromboembolism , 90.6 + / - 2.3 % versus 87.3 + / - 2.6 % ( p = ns ) ; 4 ) for anticoagulant-related bleeding , 95.3 + / - 1.1 % versus 88.6 + / - 2.4 % ( p = 0.05 ) ; 5 ) for endocarditis , 87.8 + / - 5.7 % versus 90.6 + / - 2.4 % ( p = ns ) ; 6 ) for reoperation , 91.0 + / - 2.5 % versus 74.4 + / - 3.7 % ( p less than 0.01 ) ; 7 ) for valve-related mortality , 76.1 + / - 6.9 % versus 71.4 + / - 5.2 % ( p = 0.01 ) ; 8 ) for permanent physical impairment , 85.0 + / - 3.0 % versus 71.5 + / - 3.6 % ( p less than 0.01 ) ; and 9 ) for combined operative mortality , valve-related mortality , and reoperation , 68.7 + / - 6.4 % versus 51.5 + / - 4.9 % ( p = 0.01 ) . no structural valve dysfunction was observed in any avr patient whose valve was inserted after age 70 . age at operation was the only factor that predicted structural valve deterioration ( p less than 0.01 ) . 
the reversibility of canine vein-graft arterialization . we assessed the reversibility of functional and morphological changes of arterialized vein segments by returning them to the venous circulation . thirteen dogs underwent right carotid and femoral veno-arterial grafting . after 12 weeks , veno-arterial grafts were removed for contractility ( norepinephrine [ ne ] and 5-hydroxytryptamine [ 5-ht ] ) , luminal prostacyclin ( pgi2 ) , and morphometric analyses ; the remaining segments were used as left jugular and femoral veno-venous grafts . after another 12 weeks , the veno-venous grafts were harvested . to ne , veno-arterial grafts ( ed50 , 5.4 + / - 0.1 [ - log m ] ) were less sensitive than control veins ( ed50 , 6.0 + / - 0.2 ) or veno-venous grafts ( ed50 , 6.4 + / - 0.2 ) but were more sensitive than control arteries ( ed50 , 4.0 + / - 0.1 ) ; the maximum tension of veno-arterial grafts ( 6.2 + / - 0.6 g ) was greater than that of veins , less than that of arteries ( 9.8 + / - 1.0 g ) , and comparable with that of veno-venous grafts ( 5.1 + / - 1.1 g ) . to 5-ht , veno-arterial ( ed50 , 7.5 + / - 0.1 ) and veno-venous ( ed50 , 7.3 + / - 0.2 ) grafts were more sensitive than arteries ( ed50 , 6.0 + / - 0.3 ) , while the vein was unresponsive ; the maximum tension of veno-arterial grafts ( 5.0 + / - 0.7 g ) was less than that of arteries ( 6.9 + / - 0.9 g ) and greater than that of veno-venous grafts ( 1.4 + / - 0.3 g ) . pgi2 production in veins ( 3.6 + / - 0.8 ng/ml ) , veno-arterial grafts ( 3.9 + / - 0.8 ng/ml ) , and veno-venous grafts ( 3.3 + / - 0.9 ng/ml ) was comparable and less than that of arteries ( 6.4 + / - 0.9 ng/ml ) . veno-arterial graft intimal thickness ( 127 + / - 8 microns ) and intimal area ( 15.6 + / - 1.8 x 10 ( 3 ) microns 2 ) tended to be greater than that in the veno-venous graft ( 113 + / - 9 microns and 12.4 + / - 1.8 x 10 ( 3 ) microns 2 ) ; also , the veno-arterial graft medial area ( 103.0 + / - 7.3 x 10 ( 3 ) microns 2 ) was greater than that of the veno-venous graft ( 80.3 + / - 6.9 x 10 ( 3 ) microns 2 ) , thereby resulting in a similar relative intimal area ( 13 + / - 1 % ) . therefore , some changes associated with arterialization , for example , adrenergic sensitivity , maximum tension to 5-ht , medial thickening , and perhaps intimal hyperplasia , reverted toward venous values when replaced in the venous environment , possibly due to variations in pressure , flow , shear stress , and/or graft preparation techniques . luminal pgi2 was unchanged in the grafts , implying that graft contractility was not modulated by luminal pgi2 . 
the influence of calcium alginate haemostatic swabs upon operative blood loss in adenotonsillectomy . although adenotonsillectomy is regarded as a minor procedure , it has been shown that 18 % of patients may experience an operative blood loss of 10-20 % of the total blood volume . the aim of this study was to determine whether calcium alginate haemostatic swabs reduce operative blood loss in adenotonsillectomy . seventy-two patients ( ages 2-12 years ) entered a prospective trial in which the operation was performed either with normal gauze swabs or calcium alginate swabs . thirty-six children were randomized to each group . the mean blood loss was found to be 34.9 ml ( 2.07 % of total blood volume ) and 47.8 ml ( 2.97 % of total blood volume ) respectively . although there was no significant reduction in operative blood loss using calcium alginate , in both groups the blood loss was much smaller than that stated by the majority of previous workers . 
obstructive sleep apnoea in children undergoing routine tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy . sleep screening was used to discover the incidence of sleep apnoea in 50 children undergoing routine adenotonsillectomy for recurrent upper respiratory tract infections , randomly selected from the waiting list . preoperative assessment included a detailed parental history , physical examination , and lateral cephalometry , in order to identify factors that might alert the clinician to a diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnoea . there were 2 equal groups of snorers and non-snorers ( grade 0 ) ; 1 patient was found to have the sleep apnoea syndrome ( iv ) , 9 patients had obstructive snoring with apnoeic episodes ( iii ) , 3 patients had snoring with a disrupted sleep pattern ( ii ) , and 12 patients snored with no disruption of sleep ( i ) . in identifying patients with apnoea , a history of snoring was unhelpful , whereas one of breathing irregularities was found to be highly specific . nasal obstruction correlated poorly ; however , there was a significant relationship between tonsillar position and size and sleep grade ( chi-squared p less than 0.01 ) . stepwise regression analysis showed a large contribution to the grading was made by the size of the oropharyngeal airway measured by lateral cephalometry . the children in grade ii-iv were re-studied 3 months post-operatively and all reverted to grades 0 or i. 
chest infection following head and neck surgery : a pilot study . this paper reports the results of a pilot study which examined factors associated with chest infection following head and neck surgery . the overall rate of chest infection was 11 % , but was 20 % in those patients having a tracheotomy . no infection developed in patients with an intact airway . other factors which emerged as possibly important were the duration of surgery and heavy regular alcohol intake . we recommend that prophylactic antibiotics be continued for at least 48 h in patients requiring a tracheotomy as part of their head and neck surgery . this is against the trend of shorter antibiotic regimens recommended for prevention of wound infections . 
acute deterioration of renal function associated with enteric hyperoxaluria . enteric hyperoxaluria due to malabsorption syndromes has been well documented to cause renal calculi and chronic tubulointerstitial renal damage . rarely , in the setting of intestinal bypass operations for morbid obesity , enteric hyperoxaluria has produced acute renal failure . we report two patients who suffered acute deterioration of renal function associated with increased intestinal absorption and renal excretion of oxalate associated with steatorrhea . one patient had a large portion of his small bowel resected many years prior to the onset of the renal failure and the second patient had chronic pancreatitis causing steatorrhea . both patients had renal biopsy documentation of the acute nature of the tubular damage produced by oxalate deposition . the mechanisms of their deterioration of renal function may relate to sudden increases in steatorrhea in association with episodes of volume depletion . enteric hyperoxaluria may be an easily overlooked and potentially preventable etiology of acute renal dysfunction . 
placenta previa . a placenta previa , whether found fortuitously by ultrasound or with the clinical emergency of maternal hemorrhage , carries significant maternal and fetal risk . accurate diagnosis , judicious expectant management with transfusion as required , and delivery at the time of fetal lung maturation can lead to the most favorable outcome . anticipation of the clinical complication of placenta accreta may avoid some serious consequences . clinical judgement and skill in the performance of cesarean sections , dilatation and curettage , and other forms of uterine invasive techniques may help to keep subsequent incidence of placenta previa at a reasonably low rate . 
postpartum hemorrhage : placenta accreta , uterine inversion , and puerperal hematomas . puerperal hematomas , although rare , can be potentially morbid or life-threatening events . early surgical management , including clot evacuation , layered closure , drainage , antibiotics , and fluid replacement ( including blood ) , usually result in satisfactory outcome . prevention is clearly preferable and often achievable with careful initial repair of episiotomies and lacerations . 
uterine rupture . uterine rupture is a sudden , unforeseeable event that carries a high rate of maternal and perinatal mortality . when the diagnosis of uterine rupture is suspected , prompt surgical intervention with an experienced pelvic surgeon and blood product replacement should be considered . at the time of uterine rupture , the patient should be evaluated for possible repair or hysterectomy . it appears , based on the aforementioned information , that repair is a reasonable consideration . in those patients who have undergone a repair , early delivery by elective cesarean after assessment of fetal lung maturity at or around 36 weeks gestation would appear prudent . in those patients with a prior cesarean , continuous electronic fetal monitoring to detect intrapartum fetal distress would appear prudent . in these patients fetal distress is the most common sign or symptom of uterine rupture and frequently precedes any other clinical manifestations of this complication . 
eclampsia . early detection and hospitalization in women with mild preeclampsia may prevent eclampsia . in the event of severe preeclampsia or eclampsia , delivery is indicated for the benefit of both mother and fetus . thereafter , pathologic changes of preeclampsia and eclampsia , including major multiple organ system dysfunction , undergo complete reversal . 
amniotic and thromboembolism . embolic phenomena in pregnancy demand rapid investigation and treatment . regardless , some patients will not survive due to the enormity of the insult . optimally , such patients should be treated in tertiary care centers , but this is not always possible . 
acute respiratory failure . pregnancy entails many unique physiologic changes that make the management of ards both challenging and unique . most of these women are young and in excellent health before their acute injury , and their survival should exceed that of the general population who develop ards . we advocate aggressive management of the suspected lung injury including early intubation and the institution of invasive hemodynamic monitoring . this approach ensures the most thorough assessment of the extent of the initial injury and allows rapid assessment of therapeutic maneuvers and their subsequent adjustment . our goal is to reverse the initial insult early while avoiding further iatrogenic injury . optimal management of the maternal-fetal pair requires the cooperation of an obstetrician well versed in cardiopulmonary physiology and physicians skilled in intensive care medicine . 
radionuclide imaging of asymptomatic versus symptomatic total knee arthroplasties . ninety-eight total knee prostheses were evaluated by roentgenograms and bone scans . fifty-three were asymptomatic , and 45 were symptomatic . thirteen prostheses required revision surgery . at a mean of 54 months , asymptomatic knee replacements generally showed only mild uptake in one or more zones . only one knee had uptake equal to surrounding bone . however , symptomatic knee replacements showed significantly greater uptake in the patella , femur , and medial and lateral tibial plateau regions ( mann-whitney two-sample rank test ) . bone scans in the symptomatic group were obtained at a mean of 44 months . excluding those patients who had revision surgery , the differences remained significant . furthermore , symptomatic knee replacements with normal roentgenograms also had significantly greater uptake . radiolucent lines were noted in 30 % of asymptomatic patients , whereas 29 % of symptomatic knees had radiolucencies . radiolucencies were not generally associated with significantly greater uptake . lateral release had no effect on the patellar score . 
cemented total knee arthroplasty for gonarthrosis in patients 55 years old or younger . the results of 68 cemented total knee arthroplasties ( tkas ) in 50 patients with gonarthrosis who were 55 years old or younger at the time of surgery were reviewed . these patients were operated on between 1979 and 1987 and were followed for an average of 6.2 years . the average age of the patients was 50 years . patients were evaluated by the hospital for special surgery knee score . the average preoperative score was 53 , and the average follow-up score was 90 . overall , 55 tkas were rated as excellent and 13 as good . using the knee rating score advocated by the knee society , the average postoperative score was 92 for pain and 84 for function . there were four successful reoperations for patellar component loosening , all in metal-backed patellae . the femoral and tibial components in these patients were intact , and at the follow-up period , two knees were rated as excellent and two as good . detailed roentgenographic evaluation demonstrated that 20 % of tibial components had radiolucencies in at least one zone on the anteroposterior roentgenogram and in 11 % on the lateral roentgenogram . femoral radiolucencies occurred in only 2 % of knees . patellar radiolucencies in one or more zones occurred in 20 % of knees that had not had patellar revision . no complete or progressive radiolucencies at the bone-cement interface were noted for any component , and no components were considered to be roentgenographically loose . cemented tkas can achieve excellent long-term results in patients younger than 55 years old with gonarthrosis of the knee . these results compare with those obtained in published reports on older age groups . 
total knee arthroplasty in diabetes mellitus . a retrospective study was done of 59 total knee arthroplasties ( tkas ) in 40 patients diagnosed with diabetes mellitus . the overall infection rate was 7 % , with an overall revision rate of 10 % and an average follow-up period of 4.3 years . wound complications were present in 12 % of the tkas . the rate of deep joint infections in diabetic patients was statistically higher than the reported incidence of sepsis in nondiabetic patients . therefore , maximum precautions should be taken for diabetic patients having tka to minimize both wound complications and joint sepsis . 
massive allografts in salvage revisions of failed total knee arthroplasties . ten patients with failed total knee arthroplasties and severe bone loss were treated with massive whole distal femur and proximal tibial allografts in combination with prosthetic implants . fourteen allografts were inserted either as invaginated or segmental grafts and were rigidly fixed to the host bone . clinically and roentgenographically , 12 of 14 grafts ( 86 % ) seemed to have united to the host bone . the average range of motion was 92 degrees . five patients developed complications ; two of these involved the allograft ( nonunion and fracture ) and two were caused by inadequate healing at the ligament-allograft junction . one patient had a late infection . with careful planning and improved surgical techniques , these complications can be avoided . the massive allograft-prosthesis composite techniques is a viable reconstructive alternative worthy of further clinical trials . 
reconstruction of patellar tendon rupture after total knee arthroplasty with an extensor mechanism allograft . although patellar tendon rupture after total knee arthroplasty ( tka ) is a rare complication , the consistently poor outcome of conventional tendon repair has convinced some to abandon such reconstruction in favor of a prospective protocol using an allograft distal extensor mechanism . the graft consists of a quadriceps tendon , a patella with a cemented prosthesis , a patellar tendon , and a tibial tubercle . since december 1985 , 13 knees in 12 patients were reconstructed using this method . ten knees were followed for six to 51 months ; five of these knees were followed for more than 24 months . knee extension power and improved function were ultimately attained in all cases , although minimal extensor lags were present in three cases . preoperative motion returned in all but one knee . healing of the allograft to the host tissue was attained primarily at all of the tibial junctions . two graft complications occurred , both in the first three months after surgery : one quadriceps junction treated by resuture failed at the one-month mark , and the other graft had to be revised for extensor weakness from rupture of the graft at the patella-patellar tendon junction , which was attributed to surgical damage to the tendon . after completion of healing to the host and rehabilitation of the knee joint , no grafts in the series failed during the course of normal daily activities . one patient fractured the allograft patella in a severe fall . the long-term durability of this construct needs to be studied further . 
magnetic resonance imaging and computer tomography of acute spinal cord trauma . spinal cord lesions are not detectable on roentgenograms and computed tomography ( ct ) scans . magnetic resonance images ( mris ) are able to make soft-tissue lesions visible . interpretations of mris , ct scans , and roentgenograms were compared in 25 patients and three postmortem specimens with spinal cord injuries . in 14 patients and one specimen with normal roentgenograms and ct scans , the mri demonstrated ten soft-tissue injuries as minimal displacement of the vertebral bodies or as a high signal intensity in the disc space , indicating a hematoma . seven of the ten patients demonstrating soft-tissue injuries also had an intramedullary lesion , while in five of the 15 patients with normal ct scans , only a medullary lesion was present on mri . in 11 patients and two postmortem specimens , fractures were seen on roentgenograms and ct scans . in these patients , the ct was superior to the mri in detecting small bony fragments , but the medullary lesions were visible only on the mris . an intramedullary low signal intensity corresponded to macroscopically visible hemorrhages in the three postmortem specimens . the mri provided important information in patients with neurologic deficits . no obvious pathologic changes were evident on the roentgenograms and ct scans . the mri also demonstrated intramedullary and extramedullary soft-tissue lesions and was useful in establishing a diagnosis and in choosing appropriate therapy . ct , on the other hand , was superior in detecting small bony fragments and fracture lines . 
humeral head retroversion in patients with unstable humeroscapular joints . humeral head retroversion and shoulder rotation in both the frontal and scapular plane were studied in 34 patients with anterior glenohumeral instability . twenty-two patients had traumatic anterior shoulder dislocations and another 12 patients had nontraumatic dislocations with generalized joint laxity . patients with traumatic recurrent dislocations had a smaller than normal retroversion angle in the unstable shoulder . the angles were 26 degrees on the dominant side and 23 degrees on the nondominant side compared with 33 degrees and 29 degrees , respectively , in normal shoulders . the stable contralateral shoulder joint was clinically and roentgenographically similar to the normal shoulder . the patients with nontraumatic dislocations had increased rotation and smaller retroversion angles , irrespective of stability in the shoulder joint . the retroversion angles were 18 degrees for unstable shoulders on the dominant side and 15 degrees on the nondominant side . the retroversion angle of the stable contralateral joint in these patients was less in five of eight shoulders . 
total hip arthroplasties in patients younger than 45 years . a nine - to ten-year follow-up study . eighty-one cemented total hip arthroplasties in patients younger than 45 years were reviewed with an average 9.2-year follow-up interval . the results were compared with the same group previously reported at an average follow-up time of 4.5 years . clinically satisfactory results were 58 % compared with 78 % at 4.5 years . the revision rate almost tripled to 33 % . impending failure was present in 56 % of those hips not yet revised . in the first study , technique was a primary determinant of success . in this report there was no influence of technique on the incidence of revision . age did not influence revision rates either , with 35 % in patients younger than 30 years and 32 % in patients aged 30-45 years . patients younger than 30 years had fewer satisfactory clinical results and a higher rate of impending failure . as in the first study , the best results were obtained in patients with inflammatory collagen disease aged from 30 to 45 years . 
mechanical measures in the prophylaxis of postoperative thromboembolism in total knee arthroplasty . total knee arthroplasty patients are at high risk for deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism . prophylaxis against deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in these patients seems mandatory . pharmacologic agents such as dextran 40 , aspirin , and warfarin are effective but may be associated with significant complications such as drug reaction , bleeding , hematoma , and hemarthrosis . heparin was not effective and was associated with significant bleeding complications . mechanical methods such as continuous passive motion and sequential pneumatic compression stockings were without complications and seemed equal to or more effective than pharmacologic agents . adding warfarin to mechanical methods did not seem to augment the antithromboembolic effect of the mechanical methods . 
immune responses to allogeneic and xenogeneic implants of collagen and collagen derivatives . whereas xenogeneic collagen has provided a safe and effective biomaterial for numerous medical applications , there are few instances in which data permit the correlation of the immunologic profile of well-defined devices with their clinical sequelae . a major exception is the use of injectable bovine dermal collagen for soft-tissue contour correction . the low incidence of hypersensitivity has been studied in the context of clinical efficacy and safety with several devices . the findings indicate that such immunity usually results in the manifestation of local symptoms of dermal inflammation at sites of treatment that resolve as the implant is resorbed by the host . in contrast , more immunogenic hemostatic agents may elicit a more frequent or vigorous immune response that is not clinically visible or relevant in that application . recent experiences with collagen-based devices for the repair and regeneration of bone have also demonstrated that the presence of immunity to their collagenous or non-collagenous components does not necessarily predict adverse clinical sequelae . indeed , numerous specific data indicate that this immunity can exist as an epiphenomenon with no effect on osteogenesis . to get a true composite picture of biocompatibility , significant steps must be taken to characterize biomaterials properly and to ensure that immunologic , clinical , histologic , and other pertinent laboratory data are viewed in relation to one another and not in isolation . 
primary inflammatory reaction in synovial fluid and tissue in rabbit immobilization osteoarthritis . the kinetics and composition of the primary cellular inflammatory process were studied in the synovial fluid ( sf ) and synovial tissue ( st ) compartments of a rabbit knee immobilization osteoarthritis model . immobilization induced rapid migration of neutrophils ( 59 % + / - 26 % of all cells ) into sf in three days , which was accompanied by nonspecific esterase-positive monocytes ( 71 % + / - 8 % of all mononuclear cells ) . this finding suggests that non-specific inflammation mediated by phagocytic leukocytes predominates the cellular response in the sf compartment . in contrast , morphometric analysis of st proper showed an inflammatory mononuclear cell response , the intensity of which diminished over time during the study period from day 3 ( 416 + / - 59 cells per 0.049 mm2 st tissue ) through day 10 ( 305 + / - 32 cells ) to day 35 ( 174 + / - 36 cells ) . a dotlike t-pattern alpha-naphthyl acetate esterase ( anae ) was found in the t-cell-dependent areas of secondary lymphatic tissue in the spleen , enabling immunocytologic anae marker studies . the st response in situ was predominated by tissue macrophage , though infiltrates rich in t lymphocytes were present in the immediate sublining stroma . there was a significant correlation between the intensity of the sf cell response ( total recovery ) and the percentage of neutrophils , but there was no correlation between the intensity of the st response and the proportion of t lymphocytes . these t-cell accumulations together with the local proliferation of fibroblastlike lining cells and stromal fibroblasts suggest that the primary inflammatory cell response is not caused by either wear and tear or mechanically by cartilage fragments . 
long-term morphology of spastic or flaccid muscles in spinal cord-transected rabbits . despite difficulty in long-term maintenance of spinalized rabbits , muscular pathologic changes in chronic spinalized rabbits could be observed for a period of four weeks . rabbits were prepared by spinal cord transection at t10 ( spastic paralysis ) or by spinal cord removal below l7 ( flaccid paralysis ) . spastic preparations showed hind-limb spasticity and reflex incontinence one to two days after operation . hypertrophic fibers began to appear in spastic muscles after two weeks . this hypertrophy , thought to be caused by phasic repetitive contraction , was verified by electron microscopy to be different from normal exercise hypertrophy . flaccid preparations maintained hind-limb flaccidity and overflow incontinence . in flaccid muscle , marked muscle fiber necrosis indicated rapid atrophy . spinal deformity and joint contracture inactivate spinalized rabbits , and cause pressure sores . however , feeding assistance and avoidance of complications make long-term maintenance possible . 
the effect of continuous epidural analgesia on postoperative pain , rehabilitation , and duration of hospitalization in total knee arthroplasty . efficacies of three alternate methods of postoperative analgesia were studied in 156 patients who had total knee arthroplasty ( tka ) . forty-two of these patients received parenteral meperidine hydrochloride or morphine ( group 1 ) , 58 patients received periodic epidural injections of morphine ( group 2 ) , and 56 patients received continuous epidural infusions of bupivacaine hydrochloride and duramorph ( group 3 ) . the postoperative course of all patients was documented in terms of the incidence and severity of pain , range of joint motion , duration of hospitalization , and occurrence of complications . although epidural analgesia increased the cost and duration of the operation , good-to-excellent pain relief was attained in 86 % ( group 2 ) and 88 % ( group 3 ) of cases with epidural analgesia compared with 61 % of patients ( group 1 ) receiving conventional analgesia . moreover , 67 % of patients in group 1 experienced frequent episodes of moderate-to-severe postoperative pain in contrast to 40 % of patients in group 2 and only 10 % of patients in group 3 . as a result of diminished pain , greater joint motion was obtained within the first 72 hours in groups 2 and 3 . they also had shorter hospitalization ( 9.6 days versus 11.2 days for group 1 and 10.8 days for group 2 ) . however , the use of epidural analgesia did not reduce the incidence of complications , including nausea . continuous infusion of epidural bupivacaine and duramorph provided good-to-excellent control of postoperative pain after tka . however , better analgesics are needed to reduce the high incidence of side effects associated with various treatment methods . 
late recurrence of varus deformity after proximal tibial osteotomy . one hundred thirteen knees with medial gonarthrosis in 95 patients were treated by valgus-producing proximal tibial osteotomy and followed clinically and roentgenographically for a minimum of five years ( mean , 6.3 years ) . sixty-four knees ( 57 % ) were pain free or had only mild discomfort when walking . the standing femorotibial angle decreased from a postoperative average of 9.3 degrees valgus to 7.8 degrees valgus at the final follow-up examination . the tendency for varus recurrence greater than 5 degrees and for medial - or lateral-compartment arthritic progression was evaluated using the kaplan-meier survival method . varus recurred in 18 % , lateral-compartment arthritic progression in 60 % , and medial-compartment arthritic progression in 83 % by nine years after surgery . the probability of arthritic progression is much higher than the probability of significant varus recurrence in long-term roentgenographic follow-up studies of patients with valgus-producing proximal tibial osteotomies . 
review of the all-polyethylene tibial component in total knee arthroplasty . a minimum seven-year follow-up period . a retrospective analysis of 144 total knee arthroplasties was performed between 1975 and 1981 with a minimum follow-up period of seven years . a posterior cruciate condylar prosthesis was used in each procedure . patients were followed clinically and roentgenographically , and a set of statistical variables was established based on elevation in joint line , tibial component angular alignment , overall limb alignment , and position of the tibial component on anteroposterior and lateral roentgenograms . review of the study group found that the hospital for special surgery knee scores improved from a preoperative score of 55 to a postoperative score of 88 , with 94.5 % having good or excellent results . the mean postoperative range of motion was 106 degrees with a mean extension of -0.3 degrees . radiolucencies developed in 41 % of the knees with 5 % of the knees having progressive radiolucencies . eight knees were considered failures based on clinical and roentgenographic evaluations . factors found to significantly affect the formation of radiolucent lines included a shift of the tibial component medially by greater than 4 mm , a varus tilt of the tibial component greater than 2 degrees , and the diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis . the only variable associated with aseptic loosening was an elevation of the joint line by greater than 8 mm . 
an all-polyethylene cementless tibial component . a five - to nine-year follow-up study . an all-polyethylene cementless tibial component was used in 221 total knee arthroplasties . with one exception , failures did not occur before three years . failure was characterized by medial subsidence of the tibial component . there was abrasion of the polyethylene on the undersurface of all components that failed . survivorship was seven to nine years ( 87.1 % ) . this study demonstrated that a flexible cementless component can function well when used with any type of bone . however , abrasion of the polyethylene that occurs from shearing forces is a concern . polyethylene components need adequate provisions to prevent shearing or need surface treatment to prevent abrasion . 
posterior nuchal cystic hygroma [ published erratum appears in clin perinatol 1990 dec ; 17 ( 4 ) : viii ] when cystic hygroma is detected antenatally , the prognosis is usually poor , and intrauterine or neonatal death are common . this seems especially true for turner syndrome ( the largest etiologic group associated with cystic hygroma ) and the lethal multiple pterygium syndromes . however , some fetuses with turner syndrome , and also with certain other diagnoses , had a good outcome , and further study of these conditions is required before more definite prognostic indicators and risk figures will be available . increasing numbers of syndromes are being reported in association with fetal cystic hygroma , and lymphedema may be a common element in their pathogenesis . mild , short-lived , or otherwise uncomplicated jugular lymphatic obstruction may be a cause of the neck webbing seen in the noonan , familial pterygium colli , and distichiasis-lymphedema syndromes . with earlier and more widespread fetal ultrasonography , and more sensitive techniques , a greater number of resolving fetal cases may be reported . this may clarify the natural history and provide prospective criteria for the conditions that have better prognoses . the associated conditions include autosomal dominant and recessive genetic traits . careful ultrasound study for other malformations , polyhydramnios and fetal growth parameters , a fetal karyotype , and , if appropriate , pathologic examination are required to determine the etiology and recurrence risk . the parents should be asked about exposure to alcohol or other agents and should be examined for signs of pterygium colli or noonan syndrome . if the decision is made to continue the pregnancy , and there is doubt about the natural history and prognosis , multi-disciplinary supervision should include social services , neonatology , pediatric surgery , cardiology , and genetics specialties when indicated . 
congenital heart defects in malformation syndromes . this article presents a comprehensive review of the type and frequency of congenital heart defects found in malformation syndromes which have been categorized by etiology . certain cardiac phenotypes can be as helpful in identifying certain syndromes as can be seen with the more familiar facial , body , and behavioral phenotypes . an awareness of syndromes with a higher risk of congenital heart defect , and knowledge concerning heart defects which are distinctive for certain syndromes , focuses prenatal diagnosis efforts and fetal echocardiography . by using a mechanistic classification in which congenital heart defects are regarded as families of related defects rather than individual lesions , patterns can be recognized among different syndromes . 
fetal abdominal abnormalities associated with genetic syndromes . sonographic technology has given the prenatal diagnostician the ability to accurately visualize fetal malformations . this article demonstrates the currently available capability of applying sonographically derived information concerning fetal dysmorphology to our knowledge of genetic disorders and syndromes . as a result , there can be a significant improvement in the management and counseling of these patients . after an initial discussion of normal embryology , principles of abdominal ultrasonography are discussed and applied to the following anomalies : omphalocele , gastroschisis , diaphragmatic hernia , duodenal atresia , other intestinal atresias and stenoses , renal anomalies , and obstructive uropathies . 
fetal imaging in the skeletal dysplasias . second-trimester diagnosis of fetal skeletal dysplasia is becoming increasingly common . by careful examination of the fetus for skeletal mineralization , shape and size of long bones and cranium , and abnormalities of other organ systems , a definitive diagnosis can often be achieved by ultrasound . fetal radiography is very helpful in giving more information about bone shape and mineralization as well as in confirming the diagnosis . subsequent obstetric management should be dictated by the natural history of the disease , the parents ' wishes , and the gestational age at diagnosis . because many of these disorders have a high recurrence risk , genetic counseling and follow-up are an important part of the management of these patients . 
a protocol for the investigation of pregnancy loss . a protocol for the evaluation of pregnancy loss should include a maternal history , dysmorphic examination of the fetus or abortus , photographs , autopsy , chromosome studies ( in most cases ) , and radiographic or xeroradiographic studies . selected cases with suspected ascending or transplacental infection may require microbiologic investigation . increasing specialized laboratory techniques may help in the diagnosis of inborn errors of metabolism or storage disorders . coordination of studies requires the interaction of ob/gyn , pathology , genetics , cytogenetics , and nursing in order to assure delivery of this clinical service . knowledge of the causes of pregnancy loss and their typical time and mode of presentation can facilitate a focused evaluation , with a high chance of achieving an accurate diagnosis . the goal of all investigations is to provide families with recurrence risk data on which to base future childbearing decisions , as well as information on potential prenatal monitoring . 
mefloquine kinetics in cured and recrudescent patients with acute falciparum malaria and in healthy volunteers . mefloquine pharmacokinetics were compared in a randomized clinical trial in thailand among patients with malaria and healthy volunteers . a single oral dose of 1500 mg mefloquine hydrochloride was administered to 11 patients and 5 volunteers and 750 mg was given to 16 patients and 5 volunteers . efficacy was 82 % for 1500 mg and 63 % for 750 mg . in cured patients taking 750 mg mefloquine , peak plasma drug concentration ( cmax ) and area under the plasma concentration-time curve ( auc ) were significantly greater than in the patients for whom treatment failed ( p less than 0.0005 and p less than 0.01 , respectively ) , and plasma mefloquine levels were significantly higher from 8 hours to 18 days after treatment . mefloquine auc was reduced and variable in the presence of diarrhea . compared with noninfected volunteers , clinically ill patients displayed a delayed time to reach peak concentration ( p less than 0.01 ) and significantly higher mefloquine plasma levels in the first 2 days after administration of either the 750 mg or the 1500 mg dose . mefloquine auc was similar in patients with malaria and healthy volunteers . because plasma levels increased in temporal relationship with clinical illness , mefloquine volume of distribution or clearance ( or both ) was reduced during the acute phase of illness . 
effect of indecainide in patients with left ventricular dysfunction . indecainide , a new antiarrhythmic agent classified as type ic was evaluated in 11 patients with heart disease who had greater than or equal to 30 ventricular premature complexes/hour , moderate-to-marked left ventricular dysfunction , and mean ejection fraction 34 % + / - 8 % . patients received indecainide , 50 mg by mouth , every 6 hours and the dose was increased until greater than or equal to 80 % suppression was noted , adverse effects occurred , or a maximum dose of 100 mg indecainide was given every 6 hours . ventricular premature complexes were suppressed greater than or equal to 80 % in nine patients ( p less than 0.05 ) and ventricular tachycardia episodes were completely suppressed in five of eight patients . the effective or maximal mean daily indecainide dose was 191 + / - 32 mg ; half of the responders achieved achieved efficacy at serum drug concentration greater than or equal to 600 ng/ml . serum drug concentration was directly related to gender ( r = 0.78 , p less than 0.04 ) and inversely related to creatinine clearance ( r = 0.74 , p less than 0.05 ) and ejection fraction ( r = 0.71 , p less than 0.02 ) . indecainide prolonged mean pr and qrs intervals ( p less than 0.05 ) but not qt or qtc . there was a linear relation between percent change in pr ( r = 0.80 , p less than 0.001 ) and qrs ( r = 0.66 , p less than 0.001 ) intervals and serum drug concentration . after starting or increasing the dose , careful observation of patients with decreased renal function or reduced ejection fraction should be exercised because they attain higher drug concentration than normal subjects . 
effect of amiodarone on erythrocyte shape and membrane properties . 1 . amiodarone is a potent anti-arrhythmic drug with lipophilic properties . the intercalation of such a drug into the membrane of erythrocytes may alter their shape and have an impact on the flow properties of blood . we therefore studied the influence of amiodarone on erythrocyte shape and deformability in vitro and in vivo . 2 . incubation in vitro with increasing amiodarone concentrations led to a progressive stomatocytic shape transformation and a decreased deformability of the erythrocytes . 3 . amiodarone treatment in eight patients did not affect erythrocyte morphology and deformability . however , an increase in the membrane cholesterol/phospholipid ratio was found . 4 . the stomatocytic shape transformation of erythrocytes in vitro indicates that amiodarone intercalates in the inner hemileaflet of the lipid bilayer leading to membrane internalization . these results shed light on the interaction of amiodarone with biomembranes . 
hypocalcemia and hypercalcitoninemia in critically ill children . to study ca metabolism in critically ill children , we measured ionized ca ( ca2 + ) , parathyroid hormone ( pth ) , calcitonin , 25 hydroxycholecalciferol ( 25 [ oh ] d3 ) , 1-25 dihydroxycholecalciferol ( 1-25 [ oh ] 2d3 , and gastrin levels in critically ill children and in healthy controls . patients were considered hypocalcemic if ca2 + was less than 1.1 mmol/l . six ( 14 % ) of 45 patients were hypocalcemic . five hypocalcemic patients were studied and were found to have higher calcitonin levels than normocalcemic patients and healthy controls and higher pth levels than healthy controls . 25 ( oh ) d3 and 1-25 ( oh ) 2d3 were not significantly different in the three groups of patients . gastrin levels were low in critically ill patients , whether or not they were hypocalcemic . we conclude that hypocalcemia occurs frequently in critically ill children . it is associated with raised levels of calcitonin and pth . the mechanism for the increase in calcitonin is unknown . 
iatrogenic illness in pediatric critical care . iatrogenic illness may be an important determinant of the need for pediatric intensive care . we prospectively evaluated consecutive admissions to a pediatric icu ( picu ) over two time periods totaling 6 months . twenty-five ( 4.6 % ) admissions were necessitated by iatrogenic illnesses . drug-induced conditions accounted for eight ( 32 % ) of the iatrogenic patients , and complications of medical-surgical acts accounted for 17 ( 68 % ) . diagnoses included six respiratory failures due to seizure medications , six chronic upper airway complications of neonatal intensive care , four posttonsillectomy and postadenoidectomy complications , two chronic postcardiac surgery complications , two cardiac catheterization complications , and five miscellaneous conditions . one ( 3.7 % ) patient with iatrogenic illness died . as a group , patients with iatrogenic illness were at a risk of dying similar to other patients . we conclude that iatrogenic illness is a significant cause of picu admission . 
effects of intravenous immunoglobulin on hemorrhage-induced alterations in plasma cell repertoires . hemorrhage produces decreases in serum immunoglobulin ( ig ) levels and alterations in the number and frequency of b cells producing antibodies against bacterial antigens . these abnormalities in immune response may contribute to the increased susceptibility to infection after injury and hemorrhage . to examine the relationship between serum ig levels and bacterial antigen-specific plasma cell numbers and frequencies after blood loss , we treated hemorrhaged mice with intravenous ig ( ivig ) . hemorrhaged mice given ivig had increased total numbers of splenic plasma cells compared with normal or hemorrhaged , untreated mice . immunization with the bacterial polysaccharide antigen levan immediately after hemorrhage resulted in approximately 60 % fewer levan-specific splenic plasma cells than those seen in normal unhemorrhaged mice . treatment of hemorrhaged mice with ivig did not correct the decrease in levan-specific plasma cells . these results demonstrate that hemorrhage-induced alterations in the numbers and frequencies of bacterial antigen-specific b cells are not related to changes in serum ig levels and can not be corrected through administration of ivig . 
myocardial revascularization for the third time . clinical characteristics and follow-up . twenty-five patients presenting for a third revascularization procedure were retrospectively reviewed at loyola university medical center , maywood , il . this represents 0.5 percent of the total revascularization cases over a five-year period extending from 1985 through 1989 . perioperative mortality was none , and seven complications occurred in six patients . internal mammary arteries were used for revascularization in 60 percent of this group . follow-up reveals that only one patient has died secondary to an arrhythmia . all patients except one are symptomatically improved , and 18 patients remain angina free at a mean follow-up of 22.3 months . it is therefore concluded that patients are clinically improved with a third revascularization , and this procedure should be offered as an effective means of treatment . 
progressive functional deterioration of bioprostheses assessed by doppler ultrasonography . doppler echocardiography was used to study the function of bioprosthetic heart valves by noninvasive means in 32 patients aged 29 to 72 years at various postoperative intervals . there were 24 ionescu-shiley , four hancock , and four carpentier-edwards prostheses , 19 in the aortic and 13 in the mitral position . initial studies were performed at a mean of 2.3 years after implantation and were repeated one , two , and three years thereafter . flow velocities in the mitral orifice , left ventricular outflow tract , and ascending aorta , as well as mitral pressure half-time , were measured from pulsed-wave or continuous-wave doppler recordings . mitral and aortic valve areas and aortic pressure gradients were calculated . in aortic prostheses the valve area decreased and pressure gradient increased progressively in relation to the time from implantation . the mean value ( + / - sd ) of the aortic valve area was 67 + / - 17 percent of the manufacturer 's nominal value at the first examination and 57 + / - 20 percent one year later , 51 + / - 14 percent two years later , and 46 + / - 11 percent three years later ( overall differences , p less than 0.01 ) . in mitral prostheses , reduction of the valve area was not related to the time from implantation . the mean mitral valve area was 45 + / - 12 percent of the nominal value at rest and increased to 68 + / - 18 percent during exercise at a mean of 45 months after implantation . there was no change in these values at the one-year repeat study . it is concluded that in a population with predominantly pericardial bioprostheses , ( 1 ) aortic tissue prostheses showed a progressive functional deterioration demonstrable by doppler echocardiography , most probably due to degenerative changes ; and ( 2 ) in mitral tissue prostheses , there was no significant reduction of orifice area in relation to time from implantation . reduction of mitral valve areas may , to some extent , reflect a less than full opening at rest . 
neural respiratory drive and neuromuscular coupling in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( copd ) . in 15 spontaneously breathing patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( copd ) divided into two groups , one with normocapnia ( a ) and one with chronic hypercapnia ( b ) , we evaluated the maximal voluntary inspiratory muscle strength ( mip ) , the pattern of breathing , the mouth occlusion pressure ( po .1 ) , the neural respiratory drive ( nrd ) , assessed by surface electromyographic ( emg ) activity of the diaphragm ( emgd ) and emg activity of intercostal muscles ( emgint ) , and the chest wall neuromuscular coupling , assessed in terms of po .1 / emgd ratio . compared with an age-matched normal control group , both a and b groups exhibited lower mip , significantly greater emgd and emgint , and lower po .1 / emgd ratio . however , a similar pattern , along with a rapid and shallow breathing , differentiated group b from group a. in group b we found a significant direct relationship between po .1 / emgd ratio and mip , and an inverse relationship between paco2 and po .1 / emgd ratio . these data seem to indicate the following : ( 1 ) emg is a more precise method than po .1 in assessing the magnitude of the nrd ; ( 2 ) nrd is increased in these patients ; and ( 3 ) clinical manifestations probably associated with inspiratory muscle fatigue ( marked decrease in muscle strength , rapid and shallow breathing , and alveolar hypoventilation ) may be accompanied by a greater nrd and a more marked derangement in chest wall neuromuscular coupling in copd . 
the impact of right ventricular infarction on the prevalence of ventricular arrhythmias during acute inferior myocardial infarction . to determine the impact of rv infarction on the prevalence and complexity of ventricular arrhythmias during inferior ami , 57 patients with no prior mi were studied by 24-hour holter monitoring on the first and tenth days of ami . based on radionuclear studies , patients were allocated into two groups : ( 1 ) group a , 21 patients ( 37 percent ) with normal rvef ( greater than or equal to 40 percent ) ; and ( 2 ) group b , 36 patients ( 63 percent ) with depressed rvef ( less than 40 percent ) . there were no significant differences between the groups regarding age and lvef . values of rvef were 47 + / - 6 percent and 31 + / - 6 percent , respectively ( p less than 0.05 ) . the rvef had no influence on the prevalence and complexity of early and late arrhythmias . stratification of patients in group b into two subgroups based on the extent of rv dysfunction did not reveal any differences in the occurrence of all forms of ectopy ( when both groups were matched to group a ) . therefore , patients with inferior ami , with or without rv infarction , have a similar prevalence of arrhythmias . ventricular ectopic beats may be related to the severity and spread of lv involvement , rather than to rv dysfunction . 
diagnosis of tracheal injury in mechanically ventilated premature infants by flexible bronchoscopy . a pilot study . flexible bronchoscopy ( fb ) is uniquely suited for the study of large airway lesions in the ventilated premature infant . however , no standardized clinical scoring system of distal tracheal injury exists and the adverse consequences of fb in ventilated premature infants are not well described . using a prototype olympus fiberoptic ultrathin bronchoscope with a directable tip and an outer diameter of 2.2 mm , we serially scored distal tracheal injury in conventionally ventilated premature infants on the basis of mucosal and obstructive changes observed at bronchoscopy . in addition , we prospectively evaluated the incidence of adverse cardiovascular and pulmonary effects during , immediately after , and within 1 h of fb . we performed 21 fbs in eight conventionally ventilated premature infants with birth weight of 1,239 + / - 438 g and gestational age of 30 + / - 3 weeks . the carina and mainstem bronchi were easily visualized in all infants using the prototype bronchoscope . during the first several days of life , moderate-to-severe distal tracheal mucosal injury occurred frequently , while moderate-to-severe obstructive injury occurred infrequently . distal mucosal injury appeared to improve during the fourth week of life . mild distal obstructive injury began to appear during the second week of life . adverse consequences of fb observed in our patient population included transient hypoxemia and bradycardia during fb , changes in systolic blood pressure immediately and within 1 h after fb , and emesis immediately after fb . serious adverse cardiovascular or pulmonary effects were not observed . we conclude that fb can be performed safely with appropriate monitoring and is a useful tool in the clinical assessment and serial evaluation of distal tracheal injury in ventilated premature infants . we speculate that moderate-to-severe distal tracheal mucosal injury may be associated with the development of later obstructive injury . on the basis of this preliminary study , further prospective investigations of tracheal injury in ventilated premature infants appear to be warranted . 
measuring crackles . crackles heard on auscultation can be represented graphically as a time-amplitude plot of the associated waveform . to assess the relative merits of several measures which might be considered for machine implementation in diagnostic instruments , we compared the reproducibility of those based on the initial voltage deflection which begins a crackle with those based on the largest deflection . the latter group showed less interobserver and less intraobserver variability when the same crackles were measured twice by each of two observers . crackles from a teaching tape , categorized as fine and coarse , were used in this study . the ability of the various measures tested to distinguish between fine and coarse crackles on an individual basis was assessed and found to favor the measures based on the largest deflection . they showed an average of 9.96 percent incorrectly classified crackles , as opposed to 19.53 percent for the two measures based on the initial deflection . 
anti-kveim monoclonal antibody . new monoclonal antibody reacting to epithelioid cells in sarcoid granulomas . a monoclonal antibody to the sarcoid granulomagenic agent contained in kveim suspension was prepared by immunizing mice with kveim suspension . one monoclonal antibody ( ihy-1 ) that reacted with the epithelioid cells in sarcoid granulomas on immunoperoxidase technique was selected . the immunoperoxidase technique was used to compare this monoclonal antibody 's binding to sarcoidosis - or tuberculosis-affected lymph nodes . ihy-1 is a monoclonal antibody of igm class . this antibody did not react to erythrocytes , lymphocytes , monocytes , alveolar macrophages , or the macrophage-derived cell lines such as u-973 and kg-1 . it reacted to granuloma epithelioid cells of sarcoidosis-affected lymph nodes . the monoclonal antibody also reacted positively to epithelioid cells in tuberculous granulomas although the reaction was not as strong . since ihy-1 was found to bind to both types of granulomas , this suggests that the epithelioid cells in sarcoidosis have antigenicity common to the epithelioid cells in tuberculosis . 
rapid percutaneous tracheostomy we describe a new method of performing percutaneous tracheostomy rapidly and safely using a specialized instrument kit . the technique permits the safe insertion of a full-sized 7.0 ( id ) or 7.5 mm ( id ) cuffed cannula into the trachea within 1-2 min , through the membranous second intercartilagenous space . animal studies have demonstrated a superior healing process compared to that seen after conventional tracheostomy techniques . 
mechanism of intermittent preexcitation in the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome . the concept of electronically mediated conduction across an inexcitable gap . a man with intermittent preexcitation in the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome is reported . once a sinus impulse was blocked in the accessory pathway , the block ( ie , loss of preexcitation ) was continued for a while until a pp interval reached or exceeded a critical period inducing sudden reappearance of preexcitation . this critical period was considerably longer than the effective refractory period of the accessory pathway . these findings are explained by the use of the concept of electronically mediated conduction across an inexcitable gap in the accessory pathway . it seems that when loss of protection was maintained , the sinus impulse was blocked at the site proximal to the gap , but the impulse passing through the atrioventricular node always reached retrogradely the site distal to the gap , and therefore , the next sinus impulse was blocked again . 
axillosubclavian vein thrombosis produced by retrosternal thyroid . several causes of axillosubclavian vein thrombosis have been described . trauma to the subclavian vein by pacemaker wires or central venous lines as well as the so-called effort thrombosis have been recognized as frequently diagnosed precipitating factors . a patient is herein presented with thrombosis of the subclavian vein caused by a giant substernal thyroid compressing the innominate vein . 
rounded atelectasis complicated by obstructive pneumonia and pulmonary arterial thrombosis [ published erratum appears in chest 1991 jun ; 99 ( 6 ) :1556 ] a patient with a history of asbestos exposure developed rounded atelectasis . the mass was associated with local bronchial obstruction , obstructive pneumonia and arterial thrombosis . autopsy demonstrated marked pleural thickening and radiographically inapparent asbestosis . this is the first reported case in which seemingly benign rounded atelectasis not only increased morbidity , but also contributed to mortality through airway obstruction and local arterial thrombosis . 
labetalol and mri as initial medical and diagnostic modalities in a marfanoid patient with expanding ascending aortic aneurysm . marfan syndrome is a hereditable disorder of connective tissue that causes several distinct cardiovascular abnormalities , including aortic regurgitation , dissection , and aneurysm . these cardiac manifestations can be identified with echocardiography , computer tomography , and angiography . standard treatment of an acute hypertensive crisis in marfan syndrome uses propranolol and sodium nitroprusside . this patient with marfan syndrome whose case is reported herein presented with chest pain , hypertensive crisis , and aortic insufficiency ; labetalol was used successfully to treat the acute hypertensive crisis and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) was used to differentiate between aortic dissection and an expanding aortic aneurysm . this report is unique in that labetalol was used to control the hypertensive crisis in marfan syndrome and mri was used as the initial diagnostic modality in an emergency setting . 
pulmonary malignant angioendotheliomatosis . presentation with fever and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone . a 64-year-old man presented with protracted fever , hyponatremia , and mononeuritis multiplex . inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion was established . the absence of pulmonary infiltrates precluded any lung biopsy . autopsy revealed malignant angioendotheliomatosis involving multiple organs including the alveolar septa and pulmonary vasculature . an early diagnosis of mae in the setting of fever and siadh may be possible via transbronchial biopsy . 
electrocardiographic j waves after resuscitation from cardiac arrest . a patient was monitored prior to , during , and after cardiac arrest with a holter monitor and an electrocardiograph . the arrest occurred without any premonitory signs on the ecg . at the onset of the arrest , torsades de pointes ventricular tachycardia occurred , which quickly degenerated into ventricular fibrillation . after a successful second defibrillation , the patient developed osborn waves , which subsided within a few minutes . 
the malignancy-sarcoidosis syndrome . in a retrospective review of six patients with malignancy preceding sarcoidosis , we found four cases of malignant lymphoproliferative disease ( ld ) and one case each of ovarian cancer and breast cancer . the median interval from onset or relapse of malignancy to sarcoidosis was nine months . of the four patients with ld , sarcoidosis appeared within six months of termination of chemotherapy for three of the patients and 15 months after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation for the fourth patient . at the time of diagnosis of sarcoidosis , there was no clinical or pathologic evidence of malignancy in the chest . we conclude that in contradistinction to the previously described syndrome of sarcoidosis preceding ld , there exists a syndrome of sarcoidosis following malignancy with or without chemotherapy . 
urogenital dysfunction after abdominoperineal resection for carcinoma of the rectum . the long-term urogenital dysfunctions in 46 of 104 surviving patients submitted to abdominoperineal resection for rectal carcinoma between 1972 and 1986 were collected and assessed . urinary retention was present in 41 percent of the men and 35 percent of women , while incontinence was present in 10 percent of men and 29 percent of women . impotence was reported by 59 percent of the males , all sexually active before surgery . dyspareunia was present in 50 percent of the women in the study . the possibility of treating prostatic hypertrophy concurrently with abdominoperineal resection in selected cases to avoid urinary retention is discussed . the limited number of responders to the survey may interfere with the global statistical significance . 
a critical review of chemical lymph node clearance and staging of colon and rectal cancer at ferguson hospital , 1977 to 1982 a unique opportunity to evaluate the method of chemical lymph node clearance for colorectal cancer exists at ferguson hospital . lymph node clearance has been used at the institution since 1977 , and this retrospective analysis was undertaken to ascertain its validity there . furthermore , the node positive group was evaluated to ascertain if the current staging system ( turnbull , 1967 ) is prognostically accurate for the dukes ' c group . specifically evaluated for possible prognostic variance was the survival of those patients whose tumors demonstrated partial bowel wall penetration and only one to four positive nodes , a " c1 subset , " previously reported to have favorable prognosis . eight hundred sixty-four cases of colon and rectal cancer treated surgically from 1977 to 1982 were analyzed . there was a mean of 27 lymph nodes retrieved per specimen and a mean of 4.5 positive nodes per dukes ' c specimen . there were 43 c1 and 201 c2 cases with five-year survival rates of 73 and 38 percent , respectively . the results of chemical clearance at ferguson hospital were found to be comparable with that of other centers using chemical clearance and superior to hand dissection . the c1 subset clearly is noted to have prognostic advantage and should occupy a separate designation in any staging system . 
perirectal abscess in crohn 's disease . drainage and outcome . the role of surgical intervention in the treatment of patients with anorectal crohn 's disease is controversial . to clarify the success of aggressive drainage and the subsequent clinical course of patients with crohn 's disease and perirectal abscesses , the authors reviewed the records of 38 patients who presented with this condition during an eight-year period . twenty-two male and 16 female patients ( median age , 32 years ; range , 17 to 61 years ) with clinically or pathologically confirmed crohn 's disease of the bowel underwent operation for perirectal abscesses . thirty-two percent of patients had no previous history of anorectal crohn 's disease . thirty simple abscesses and 8 complex horseshoe abscesses were treated . at operation , 53 percent of patients underwent incision and drainage whereas 26 percent received loop indwelling drains and 21 percent had mushroom catheters placed . after resolution of the index abscess , recurrent abscesses occurred in 45 percent of the patients who underwent catheter drainage and 56 percent of the patients who underwent incision and drainage . more importantly , 44 percent of the incision and drainage group and only 31 percent of the catheter drainage group required subsequent proctectomy to control perineal sepsis . the healing time of the perineal wound was longer than six months in 83 percent of patients requiring rectal excision . we concluded that long-term catheter drainage may offer substantial benefit in the overall outcome of the treatment of patients with crohn 's disease and perirectal abscess . 
the surgical management of children with ulcerative colitis . the old vs. the new . the authors ' experience with children who have chronic ulcerative colitis was reviewed to compare their current surgical approach ( ileoanal anastomosis ) with earlier methods of management . between 1960 and 1984 , 137 children with chronic ulcerative colitis underwent surgery ( mean duration of follow-up , 7.1 years ) . in 91 patients , the procedures were a total proctocolectomy with ileostomy or kock pouch ( 66 ) or a lesser colectomy with either an ileostomy ( 16 ) or an ileorectal anastomosis ( 9 ) ( group i ) . forty-six patients underwent an ileoanal anastomosis procedure ( group ii ) . children in group i were more likely to have significant preoperative loss of weight , a debilitated condition , and malnutrition . urgent or emergency surgical intervention was required in 25 percent of patients in group i but in only 4 percent of patients in group ii . trends included 1 ) a younger age at operation in group ii , 2 ) a higher mortality in group i ( 7.7 percent ) than group ii ( 0 percent ) , and 3 ) a higher perioperative mortality with emergency operations ( 23 percent ) than elective procedures ( 1.6 percent ) . in group i , 98 percent of patients had an abdominal ostomy , but no patients in group ii had an abdominal ostomy . the children with an ileoanal anastomosis had an average of 4.8 stools during waking hours and 1.3 stools each night . on the basis of this experience , the authors recommend use of the ileoanal anastomosis procedure in the surgical treatment of chronic ulcerative colitis in children . 
accumulation and pepsin solubility of collagens in the bowel of patients with crohn 's disease . the collagen content of resected strictured intestine , with and without fistulas , from patients with crohn 's disease has been compared with that in macroscopically normal intestine removed from the same patients and from others without inflammatory bowel disease . collagen content per unit wet or dry weight of tissue was significantly increased in all grossly diseased tissue whether fistulated or not . although there was a significant increase in collagen types i , iii , and v in diseased tissue , the relative proportions of major collagen types extracted by limited pepsin digestion were similar for both crohn 's and non-crohn 's intestine ( type i , 65 to 70 percent ; type iii , 25 to 30 percent ; type iv , 2 to 3 percent ; and type v , 2.5 to 3 percent ) . cnbr digestion of pepsin insoluble material showed a similar relative abundance of types i and iii , indicating no major change in collagen type distribution between older ( insoluble ) and more newly synthesized collagen . there was no evidence of the presence of type i trimer collagen . type vi collagen , although not quantitated , was observed in 70 percent of intestinal specimens . the proportion of total collagen solubilized by pepsin treatment was significantly greater in both grossly diseased and macroscopically normal crohn 's bowel compared with non-inflammatory bowel disease bowel . these findings suggest that there are disturbances of collagen metabolism in crohn 's intestine , which account for the stricturing process and which may predate gross pathologic changes . 
retroperitoneal air after routine hemorrhoidectomy . report of a case . retroperitoneal air as a complication after routine hemorrhoidectomy has not been reported in the literature . this occurred recently after hemorrhoidectomy in a 34-year-old patient receiving glucocorticoid therapy for rheumatoid arthritis . adverse steroidal effects of wound healing have been well documented . it is believed that steroid-induced tissue changes contributed to the development of this unique complication . 
association of anterior ectopic anus and partial absence of levator musculature in a woman with impaired defecation . report of a case . a 25-year-old nulliparous woman with adult onset constipation and slight anterior displacement of the anus underwent pelvic magnetic resonance imaging and was diagnosed with congenital hemiabsence of the levator ani sling . impaired defecation was confirmed by anorectal function studies and defecography demonstrated an anterior rectocele , perineal descent at the upper limit of normal , and partial obstruction of defecation , which appeared related to the levator sling abnormality . to our knowledge , this combination of findings has not been previously described as a cause of adult onset constipation . 
colonic lipoma as a source of massive hemorrhage . report of a case . colonic lipomas are a rare source of massive lower gastrointestinal bleeding requiring operative intervention . a case of massive hemorrhage from cecal lipomatosis is presented . the methods of preoperative diagnosis and treatment are discussed . 
malignant potential of juvenile polyposis coli . report of a case and review of the literature . juvenile polyps of the colon and rectum traditionally have been viewed as being benign inflammatory or harmartomatous lesions without potential for malignant change . the authors report a case of adenocarcinoma developing in a patient with sporadic juvenile polyposis . juvenile polyposis was diagnosed in the patient at age 4 years . he underwent subtotal colectomy at age 6 years . at age 12 , he underwent a proctectomy and a swenson pull-through because of adenomatous changes in the rectal stump . at age 19 surveillance endoscopy revealed invasive cancer in a juvenile polyp . 
yersinia enterocolitica abscess of the transverse colon . report of a case . yersinia enterocolitica abscess of the bowel is a rare entity . only five cases have previously been reported -- none in the surgical literature . a unique presentation for yersinia infection , abscess of the transverse colon , is described , and the literature of y. enterocolitica intestinal perforation and abscess is reviewed . 
ileocolic nipple valve anastomosis for preventing recurrence of surgically treated crohn 's disease . long-term follow-up of six patients . to prevent coloileal reflux after ileocecal resection , an ileocolic nipple valve anastomosis was constructed in six patients with crohn 's disease . the patients were observed for more than 7 years and were compared with 21 crohn patients in whom conventional end-to-end ileocolic anastomosis was performed during the same period . the outcome was more favorable in the group with nipple valve anastomosis , i.e. , longer interval between surgery and symptomatic relapse , and tendency to less frequent recurrence and re-resection . an association was found between radiologically preserved nipple valve and remission , and two patients with intact valve at long-term follow-up remained symptom-free . the observations implied that protection of the terminal ileum from coloileal reflux after ileocecal resection for crohn 's disease may favorably influence the prognosis . 
plasma neurotransmitters and cortisol in duodenal ulcer patients . role of stress . levels of noradrenaline , adrenaline , dopamine , free serotonin , platelet serotonin , and cortisol were measured in the plasma of duodenal ulcer patients and controls . all subjects received antacids , and these substances were also measured . during relapse , all patients showed raised noradrenaline , adrenaline , dopamine , free serotonin , and cortisol values . in contrast , platelet serotonin showed very low values , which correlated negatively with all the former , except free serotonin . no correlations were found in parameters of the controls . after healing , significant reductions of noradrenaline , adrenaline , dopamine , free serotonin , and cortisol and significant increases of platelet serotonin values were observed . however , only dopamine , free serotonin , and cortisol reached normal values . noradrenaline and adrenaline remained higher and platelet serotonin lower , both significantly more so than normals . these still-altered parameters showed similar correlations to those found during relapses . the present results demonstrate that some baseline autonomic system imbalance exists in patients , amplified and accentuated during relapse . we discuss the possibility that stress plays some role in triggering duodenal ulcer relapse . 
putative mechanisms of cytoprotective effect of certain antacids and sucralfate . an investigation of cytoprotective activity of certain antacids and inert particles was carried out by treating ethanol-induced gastric mucosal damage in rats in order to clarify possible mechanisms by which aluminum-containing antacids act . al ( oh ) 3 inhibited gastric mucosal damage in a dose-related and time-dependent manner . neither aluminum ions themselves nor the particle size of the al ( oh ) 3 complex were responsible for the observed cytoprotection , since neither alcl3 , chemically inert al2o3 * c , nor sea sand showed protective effects . hyperosmolality in the gastric lumen was not a deciding factor in inducing cytoprotection . silicic acid and titanium dioxide , with superficial charge similar to al ( oh ) 3 proved to be effective in inhibiting gastric hemorrhagic lesions and releasing pge2 , suggesting that the surface charge of al ( oh ) 3 may be important in its cytoprotective properties . the same may also be valid for sucralfate . since antacid-induced cytoprotection was only partly reduced by pretreatment with indomethacin , it is likely that additional mechanisms and mediators other than prostaglandins , such as nonprotein sulfhydryls , also are involved in gastric cytoprotection arising from aluminum-containing antacids . 
gastric contents retained in rat stomach following mild irritant exposure contribute to adaptive cytoprotection . fluid retained in the gastric lumen immediately preceding the administration of a damaging product will dilute that product and decrease its injurious capacity . in an attempt to explain the phenomenon of adaptive cytoprotection , we studied the effect of mild irritant exposure on the volume of fluid retained in the gastric lumen . rats treated with 0.2 n-0 .4 n hcl had a larger volume of gastric fluid retained as compared to animals treated with 0.4 n nacl . additionally , a mixture of gastric juice derived from rats exposed to 0.4 n hcl with 2 ml ethanol was significantly less damaging to the gastric mucosa than a similar mixture containing an equal volume of gastric juice derived from 0.4 n nacl-exposed rats . we conclude from our observations that in mild irritant-exposed stomachs , the gastric juice is a main contributor to the protection against ethanol injury . 
modulatory action of adenosine on gastric function and ethanol-induced mucosal damage in rats . this study examines the gastric effects of adenosine and its antagonist , theophylline , on secretory function , mucosal blood flow , and on ethanol-induced glandular mucosal damage in rats that were fasted for 24 hr before experimentation . the animals were anesthetized with sodium pentobarbitone ( 50 mg/kg intraperitoneal ) and their tracheae cannulated . an ex vivo stomach chamber then was prepared . the luminal bathing solution was collected every 15 min and the concentrations of h + and na + were determined by a ph autotitrator and an ionmeter , respectively . the glandular mucosal blood flow was measured by a laser doppler flowmeter and the severity of lesions was determined by measuring the hemorrhagic areas . adenosine administration ( 2.5 or 7.5 mg/kg , subcutaneous ) markedly lowered the h + and na + output but increased the secretory volume and mucosal blood flow in a dose-dependent manner . the same doses of the nucleoside also prevented ethanol-induced mucosal damage . these effects were prevented by pretreatment with theophylline ( 30 or 60 mg/kg , subcutaneous ) . ethanol given alone significantly depressed the h + and na + secretion . both effects were not modified by adenosine treatment . however , the depressive action of ethanol on mucosal blood flow was prevented by adenosine . these findings indicate that adenosine modulates the physiological function of the stomach . it also directly activates the defensive mechanism of the stomach , which is partially mediated by the improvement of the gastric mucosal blood flow and an increase in the nonacid component of gastric secretion . 
evaluation of antral mast cells in nonulcer dyspepsia . two hundred twenty-five patients with the symptoms of nonulcer dyspepsia underwent clinical and endoscopic evaluation including histologic assessment of endoscopic biopsies . mast cells were counted after special staining with low ph alcian blue . of 225 patients , 31 ( 13 % ) were found to have 11 or greater mast cells per high-power field . endoscopic and routine histologic findings were similar between the subset of 31 patients with 11 or more mast cells and the entire group of 225 . the 31 patients with increased antral mast cells had failed treatment with standard drug used for peptic ulcer disease . h1-antagonists improved symptoms in the majority of patients ( 79 % ) in whom we had adequate follow-up . patients with increased mast cells on antral biopsy appear to be subset of patients with nonulcer dyspepsia amenable specific treatment with h1-antagonists . 
morphological and biochemical changes in gastric mucosa of aging rats . although previous data from this laboratory have indicated that aging is associated with increased gastric mucosal proliferative activity , no direct assessment of proliferative potential of the tissue has been made during aging . in order to assess this , and to determine whether changes in mucosal proliferative potential would be reflected in growth of the tissue , we have examined the labeling index ( li ) , height and morphology of the gastric mucosa in young ( 4-month-old ) and aged ( 24-month-old ) fischer-344 rats . in addition , tyrosine kinase ( tyr-k ) activity and the levels of phosphotyrosine proteins were determined to evaluate their relationship to mucosal proliferative activity . histologic evaluation revealed a marked atrophy of the mucosal glandular component with 32 % reduction in height in aged rats when compared with young animals . in aged rats , there was also a decrease in gland density , resulting in a reduction in the number of epithelial cells of all types with evidence of decreased secretory activity . despite the occurrence of mucosal atrophy in aged rats , li in these animals was significantly increased by 28 % . this was associated with a parallel rise in mucosal tyr-k activity , and a two - to threefold increase in the relative concentrations of seven phosphotyrosine membrane proteins with mr of 120 , 105 , 90 , 60 , 55 , 48 and 32 kda . we conclude that ( 1 ) although aging is associated with increased gastric mucosal proliferative activity , this does not result in mucosal growth and that ( 2 ) tyr-k and tyrosine phosphorylation of certain proteins play a role in the regulation of gastric mucosal cell proliferation during aging . 
improved scintigraphic assessment of severe cholestasis with the hepatic extraction fraction . in previous studies , we found that biliary scintigraphy with technetium-99m-labeled iminodiacetic acid ( [ 99mtc ] ida ) provided excellent discrimination between intrahepatic and extrahepatic cholestasis , except in patients with profound cholestasis who had poor visualization of the biliary tree . in this study , we have used deconvolution analysis to determine the hepatic extraction fraction ( hef ) of a hypothetical single circulatory pass of [ 99mtc ] ida . our hypothesis was that extraction of radionuclide from the blood would be normal in patients with extrahepatic obstruction alone , but would be impaired in patients with intrahepatic disease ( ihd ) . the purpose of this study was to compare the hef in patients with profound cholestasis ( bilirubin greater than or equal to 3.0 mg/dl ) due to either ihd or common bile duct obstruction ( cbdo ) . normal subjects ( n = 13 ) had an hef of 100 % . patients with cbdo ( n = 13 ) had slightly reduced hef values ( 92.8 + / - 3.2 % ) despite profound hyperbilirubinemia ( 6.1 + / - 1.0 mg/dl ) . patients with ihd ( n = 23 ) had a markedly reduced hef ( 43.1 + / - 4.1 % ) which was significantly lower than patients with cbdo and normal subjects ( p less than 0.001 ) . we conclude that the determination of the hef during biliary scintigraphy is helpful in distinguishing between intrahepatic and extrahepatic disease in patients with hyperbilirubinemia ( bilirubin greater than or equal to 3.0 mg/dl ) . 
alcohol and gastrointestinal bleeding . ethanol has experimentally been shown to be " ulcerogenic , " independent of gastric intraluminal ph. ethanol remains ulcerogenic despite antisecretory doses of h2-receptor antagonists . low-dose alcohol stimulates acid secretion in man , an effect possibly mediated by histamine or gastrin . high-dose alcohol reduces intraluminal acid by damaging mucosa , thereby enhancing back diffusion of hydrogen ion , and also by direct damage to oxyntic ( parietal ) cells . ethanol is capable of increasing gastric mucosal permeability as evidenced by the increase in back diffusion ( increases intraluminal ph ) and by the characteristic fall in transmucosal potential difference which reflects surface cell layer exfoliation . this exfoliation may offer an explanation for the potentiating effect of alcohol on gastric mucosal injury when it is ingested simultaneously with other gastric irritants . ethanol of greater than 20 % concentration can rapidly destroy the gastric mucus-bicarbonate layer , which may be a defense layer for both the inhibition of back diffusion and bicarbonate neutralization of existing acid . ethanol depletes sulfhydryl compounds in gastric mucosa . these sulfhydryls may be necessary for stabilization of cell membranes as well as for binding free radicals . ethanol is damaging to the mucosal microcirculation . the rapidity of ethanol-induced damage makes it unlikely that the process is purely ischemic . the cytoprotective phenomenon , as this brief literature review suggests , is a multifactorial , dynamic process . the complex interplay of mucosal defense factors , endogenous and exogenous stimuli , induction of humoral responses , and ultimately the success or failure of cellular repair , is unlikely to be solely mediated by endogenous prostaglandins . although prostaglandins are unquestionably significant to cytoprotection , the supporting and , perhaps , major roles of leukotrienes , sulfhydryls , histamines , and like substances can not be ignored . several innovative therapeutic agents directly derived from these research efforts have already entered the clinician 's formulary . the significance of the concept of cytoprotection is only now being realized in clinical applications . alcoholic hemorrhagic gastritis , although a significant clinical entity , remains a rather elusive diagnosis for the emergency physician . as a diagnosis of suspicion , therapeutic trials of antacids , sucralfate , or perhaps synthetic prostaglandin analogues are acceptable , pending endoscopic verification or short-term resolution of symptoms . all patients presenting with true hemorrhage or with persistent symptoms should undergo gastroenterologic referral and endoscopic evaluation . the mallory-weiss syndrome has long been associated with acute and chronic alcohol abuse . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
small intestinal fatty acid synthesis is increased in diabetic rats . several studies have demonstrated that intestinal triglyceride production and secretion are increased in diabetic animals and may contribute to the hypertriglyceridemia that accompanies diabetes . there are three potential sources of fatty acids for intestinally derived triglycerides ; de novo fatty acid synthesis , circulating free fatty acids , or dietarily derived fatty acids . prior data have demonstrated that de novo cholesterol synthesis is increased in the small intestine of diabetic animals . the primary aim of the present study was to determine the effect of diabetes on small intestinal de novo fatty acid synthesis . we found that de novo fatty acid synthesis in the small intestine is increased approximately 2-fold in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats . in contrast , hepatic fatty acid synthesis is decreased in the diabetic animals . the increase in intestinal fatty acid synthesis is observed in both the fed and fasting states . limiting food intake by pair feeding prevents the diabetic-induced increase in small intestinal fatty acid synthesis , a finding similar to previous data on cholesterol synthesis . thus , the increase in both small intestinal cholesterol and fatty acid synthesis is dependent on the increased food intake that accompanies poorly controlled diabetes . the present study indicates that increases in small intestinal de novo fatty acid synthesis in diabetic animals could play an important role in providing fatty acids for increased small intestinal triglyceride synthesis and secretion . 
experimental models of temporal lobe epilepsy : new insights from the study of kindling and synaptic reorganization . temporal lobe epilepsy is a common localization-related epileptic syndrome characterized by complex partial seizures , ictal and interictal epileptic discharges arising from limbic structures of the temporal lobe , and association with hippocampal sclerosis . temporal lobe epilepsy may follow perinatal injury and febrile convulsions , may be progressive , and frequently becomes refractory to standard antiepileptic therapy . the neurobiology that underlies these features of temporal lobe epilepsy is not known . recent studies in experimental models have provided new insights that may help clarify the relationship of seizures , hippocampal sclerosis , and temporal lobe epilepsy . observations from the study of the hippocampus with kainic acid-induced lesions , the kindling model , and other experimental models of epilepsy have demonstrated that seizures induce structural and electrophysiologic alterations in hippocampal pathways that may lead to increased excitability and could play a role in the development and progression of temporal lobe epilepsy . these alterations include mossy fiber synaptic reorganization , induction of nmda-mediated synaptic transmission , and progressive hippocampal neuronal loss induced by brief kindled seizures . some of the structural alterations induced by kindling have also been observed in the human epileptic temporal lobe , raising the possibility that mechanisms operative in kindling may play a role in the pathogenesis of hippocampal sclerosis and in the syndrome of human temporal lobe epilepsy . 
mesial temporal sclerosis : pathogenesis , diagnosis , and management . mesial temporal sclerosis ( mts ) is probably the most common symptomatic pathologic entity -- alone or mixed with other pathologic features -- for seizures of temporal lobe origin . the pathophysiology of mts , including any genetic influence , needs clarification . a characteristic ictal expression for seizures of mts origin appears not to exist . the majority of patients ( 78 % ) with postresection mts who are seizure-free have tightly localized interictal abnormalities restricted to f7/f8 , sp1/sp2 , t3/t4 , and t5/t6 more than 96 % of the time . mri abnormalities may be seen in 55 % of patients with mts if both " hard " and " soft " criteria are used or in 20 % when only " hard " criteria are used . the neuropsychologic evaluation of patients with mts , which includes intracarotid amobarbital test ( iat ) , may prove to be increasingly useful in identifying patterns of cognitive deficit that correlate with enhancement of both lateralizing and localizing preoperative information . 
late onset adrenal hyperplasia : mutation at codon 282 of the functional 21-hydroxylase gene is not ubiquitous . ten patients affected with 21-hydroxylase ( 21-oh ) deficient late-onset adrenal hyperplasia were studied to determine the prevalence of a mutation at codon 281 of the functional 21-oh gene ( cyp21b ) that results in a valine to leucine amino acid shift . this mutation has been reported in eight unrelated late-onset adrenal hyperplasia patients of ashkenazi jewish descent possessing the human leukocyte antigen-b14 , dr1 haplotype . normally , there are two 21-oh genes ; a pseudogene ( cyp21a ) and a functional gene ( cyp21b ) . the aberrant codon 281 sequence is normally present only in cyp21a . in all of our late-onset adrenal hyperplasia patients , hybridization of an oligonucleotide probe specific for this mutation was demonstrated to cyp21a but not to cyp21b . the mutation at codon 281 of cyp21b does not appear to be a ubiquitous genetic marker for 21-oh deficient late-onset adrenal hyperplasia , suggesting that this disorder may demonstrate the same molecular heterogeneity as congenital adrenal hyperplasia . 
retroperitoneal mobilization of the vas deferens in the complex vasovasostomy . anatomic distances along retroperitoneal , inguinal , and infrainguinal segments of the vas deferens were measured in 14 formalin fixed cadavers and in 15 recently postmortem males . there were no significant differences in segment lengths between the two groups nor between the right and left vasa . data from the recent postmortem group reveals a mean length of 5.83 + / - .65 cm to be gained from retroperitoneal mobilization of the vas deferens . this information is important to surgical decisions in cases of microsurgical repair of obstructive azoospermia resulting from damage to the inguinal segment of the vas deferens . data on other vasal segment lengths is beneficial for planning repair in other complex cases of obstructive azoospermia as well . 
high-output left ventricular failure after dextran use in an operative hysteroscopy . high-output left ventricular failure occurred in a patient after a difficult case of hysteroscopic lysis of adhesions using dextran as a distension medium . the excessive dissection in the uterine wall , the long duration of the operation , and the large volumes of dextran probably caused intravasation of dextran into the systemic circulation inducing a significant shift of fluids from the third space . this was possibly assisted by the large volume of fluids given intravenously in a 45-kg patient initiating the reported sequence of events . 
deletion of chromosome 4 : 46 , xy , del ( 4 ) ( q31 .3 ) after gamete intrafallopian transfer and in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer . it seems that assisted reproduction technology does not increase the rate of chromosome abnormalities , and up to now , a few cases have been reported . the case we describe here is the first one of monosomy 4q31 in a full-term liveborn after a combined gift-ivf procedure . once more , this case raises the question of whether pregnancies resulting from ivf should be monitored for chromosome abnormalities or not . 
mapping genes in diabetes . genetic epidemiological perspective . research on mapping diabetes-susceptibility genes is dependent on several factors , including the existence of a single major gene for susceptibility , genetic homogeneity , and the existence of appropriate clinical material . the power to detect susceptibility genes is dependent on the risks in relatives and the distance of genetic markers from the susceptibility genes . for insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) , the best-fitting risk models are those with a single major locus with residual polygenic factors . the major locus effect is likely represented by genes in the hla complex , because specific genotypes have been found to affect iddm risk significantly . thus , mapping the remaining polygenic iddm susceptibility factors -- each of small effect -- is a difficult and long task . for non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) , the likely risk models result in few genes with moderate effect . models of niddm have significant residual polygenic variation remaining , reflecting the importance of multiple loci with small effect , environmental effects , or genetic heterogeneity ; however , the prospects for mapping genes that provide at least moderate susceptibility for niddm now appear promising . 
a randomized controlled evaluation of a psychosocial intervention in adults with chronic lung disease . the effect of a stress management program on morbidity and psychosocial and physical function in patients with chronic lung disease was assessed . adults attending either a va pulmonary clinic or university hospital pulmonary rehabilitation clinic who met criteria for obstructive or restrictive pulmonary disease were randomly assigned to receive the intervention or to a control group . the intervention was provided by a nurse and included one to three teaching sessions , reading material , audiotapes , and telephone follow-up . the program focused on stress management techniques such as cognitive restructuring , progressive relaxation , breathing exercises , and visual imagery . the 45 experimental subjects were similar to the 49 controls with respect to baseline characteristics . experimental and control subjects had similar rates of mortality , hospital days , bed-disability days , restricted-activity days , and physician visits during the 12-month follow-up . there were no differences between the two groups in physical or psychosocial function at six months or in levels of stressful life changes , social supports , and self-esteem at six and 12 months . intervention recipients had better function at 12 months , suggesting a possible benefit of the intervention . 
natural history of congestive gastropathy in cirrhosis . the liver study group of v. cervello hospital . in a prospective study of the natural history of congestive gastropathy , 212 consecutive cirrhotic patients ( 75 treated with sclerotherapy ) were included . mean follow-up was 46 months . mild gastropathy ( mosaiclike pattern ) was found in 110 patients and severe gastropathy ( granular mucosa with cherry spots ) was found in 20 . prevalence of helicobacter pylori , formerly campylobacter pylori , was 50 % in patients without , 43 % in those with mild , and 28 % in those with severe gastropathy . congestive gastropathy was significantly more frequent in patients treated with sclerotherapy ( 83 % vs. 50 % , p less than 10 ( -5 ) ) . sixty-month actuarial proportions of patients free of anemia ( in the absence of hematemesis or melena ) , were 17 % with severe , 62 % with mild , and 93 % without gastropathy ( p less than 10 ( -8 ] . corresponding figures for overt bleeding were 25 % , 73 % , and 87 % ( p less than 10 ( -7 ] , whereas those for survival were 46 % , 72 % , and 85 % ( p = 0.0005 ) , respectively . a multivariate regression analysis supported the following conclusions : ( a ) sclerotherapy and the presence of large esophageal varices significantly increase the risk of congestive gastropathy , which ( b ) is a significant risk indicator of both chronic and overt bleeding but does not independently affect survival . 
role of epidermal growth factor , prostaglandin , and sulfhydryls in stress-induced gastric lesions . epidermal growth factor promotes the growth of and protects gastric mucosa against various ulcerogens , including stress , but little is known about its role in the pathogenesis of stress ulcerations . in this study , wistar rats with intact and resected salivary glands were exposed to water-immersion and restraint stress . during 2-14 hours of water-immersion restraint stress , the formation of gastric ulcerations increased progressively and the duration of stress was accompanied by a decrease in dna synthesis in the gastric mucosa . following sialoadenectomy , a significant increase in the number of stress ulcerations and further reduction in dna synthesis were observed . exogenous epidermal growth factor and dimethyl prostaglandin e2 significantly reduced the ulcerations in the stressed rats with intact salivary glands , but this reduction was significantly less pronounced after sialoadenectomy . water-immersion restraint stress also resulted in about 50 % reduction in mucosal prostaglandin e2 generation , and the pretreatment with indomethacin , which suppressed prostaglandin e2 by about 90 % , almost doubled the number of stress ulcerations and abolished the gastro-protective effect of exogenous epidermal growth factor ( but not dimethyl prostaglandin e2 ) against the stress lesions . an inhibition of ornithine decarboxylase activity by difluoromethyl ornithine also augmented stress-induced ulcerogenesis and abolished the protective action of epidermal growth factor while the administration of spermine almost completely prevented stress ulcerations in rats both without and with pretreatment with difluoromethylornithine . water-immersion restraint stress also significantly reduced mucosal content of glutathione . cysteamine increased tissue glutathione and reduced stress ulcerations but n-ethylmaleimide , an sulfhydryl blocker , decreased mucosal content of glutathione without affecting the stress ulcerations . this study indicates that the stress ulcers are accompanied by the reduction in mucosal synthesis of dna , prostaglandin , and glutathione and that the presence of salivary glands attenuates the stress ulcerogenesis probably by releasing epidermal growth factor which acts , in part , by enhancing ornithine decarboxylase activity , mucosal growth , and prostaglandin and glutathione formation . 
acute and chronic stress in duodenal ulcer disease . acute and chronic life event stressors were objectively assessed in a sample of duodenal ulcer patients and community controls . stress was assessed on two dimensions , " personal threat " and " goal frustration . " chronic stressors ( those of 6 months ' duration or more ) involving high goal frustration were significantly and independently associated with the onset and relapse of duodenal ulcers , as were acute events of high immediate but transient personal threat . 
role of visceral afferent mechanisms in functional bowel disorders . this report analyzes the clinical and physiological evidence supporting a role for altered visceral afferent mechanisms in the pathogenesis of two functional bowel syndromes : noncardiac chest pain and the irritable bowel syndrome . considerable recent evidence indicates that increased contractility is present only in a minority of patients and that hypercontractile episodes are not temporally related to abdominal pain . in contrast , altered sensation and motor reflexes in response to physiological stimuli , such as mechanical distention or acid , is common when appropriately investigated . the vagal and spinal afferent innervation mediates visceral sensation and is involved in multiple reflex loops regulating gastrointestinal effector function , such as motility and secretion . sensory input can be modulated peripherally at the afferent nerve terminal , at the level of prevertebral ganglia , the spinal cord , and the brainstem . an up-regulation of afferent mechanisms would result both in altered conscious perception of physiological stimuli and in altered motor reflexes . current evidence is consistent with an alteration in the peripheral functioning of visceral afferents and/or in the central processing of afferent information in the etiology of altered somatovisceral sensation and motor function observed in patients with functional bowel disease . 
intravenous but not intracolonic epidermal growth factor maintains colonocyte proliferation in defunctioned rat colorectum . the role of epidermal growth factor in the proliferation of normal and premalignant colonocytes in vivo is not fully understood . in particular , the relative importance of its possible systemic and intraluminal routes of action has not been fully clarified . rats with surgically defunctioned distal colorectums were used , and mini osmotic pumps were implanted to study the effects of intraluminal and iv administration of epidermal growth factor on colonocyte proliferation . within 2 weeks of bypass , colonocyte proliferation in defunctioned colorectum has decreased to about one third the rate in normal colorectum or in colorectum proximal to the defunctioning colostomy . intraluminal epidermal growth factor , infused from the time of operation did not reverse this hypoplasia , whereas iv epidermal growth factor maintained colonocyte proliferation at approximately the normal rate in bypassed colorectum . this model is suitable for testing other putative colonic mitogens for possible intraluminal and systemic effects . 
host response to mycobacterial infection in the alcoholic rat . animals , chronically treated with alcohol , were inoculated with mycobacteria ( bacillus calmette-guerin , 10.2 x 10 ( 6 ) organisms ) into the spleen to produce a granulomatous hepatitis . before infection , chronic alcohol ingestion was associated with a depressed skin test response to phytohemagglutinin , 71.7 % of baseline ( p = 0.009 ) . mycobacterial ( bacillus calmette-guerin ) infection stimulated phytohemagglutinin skin test response to 417 % of baseline in controls and 299 % in alcoholics ( p less than 0.001 ) . the hepatic granuloma response was altered with smaller but more numerous granulomas ( mean + / - sem , 81.2 + / - 1.5 microns2 of area with a frequency of 1.8 granulomas per field in alcoholics vs. 129.8 + / - 5.71 microns2 and 1.2 granulomas per field in controls ; p less than 0.001 ) . these changes were associated with a 10-fold increase in colony-forming units per gram of liver ( 54.5 + / - 18.2 in alcoholics vs. 5.6 + / - 1.83 in controls ; p = 0.0006 ) . this model offers precise parameters for host response to infection and indicates that alcohol significantly impairs the clearing capacity for mycobacteria from the liver . 
adaptive hyperphagia in patients with postsurgical malabsorption . the specific nutritional consequences of malabsorption after small-bowel surgery were studied in a consecutive series of 48 ambulatory patients who had had small-bowel resection ( n = 43 ) or bypass ( n = 5 ) and in 10 patients who had an ileal pouch ( n = 10 ) . the patients received a 3-day standardized oral regimen providing daily 30 kcal/kg of ideal body weight ( ibw ) . throughout the study , 41 patients had malabsorption ( fecal fat greater than 5 % ) ; 17 had fecal fat less than 5 % and served as controls . the malabsorption patients absorbed 70 % of protein and 71 % of fat . twenty-one were normonourished and 20 had features of mild energy malnutrition , vs. 15 and 2 controls , respectively . compared with controls , malabsorption patients had decreased body weight and triceps skin-fold but no features of protein malnutrition . their mean daily food intake at home was significantly enhanced ( 39.6 + / - 13.1 kcal/ibw kg ) vs. controls ( 28.8 + / - 5.8 kcal/ibw kg , p less than 0.001 ) . in the malabsorption group , caloric intake was higher in the normonourished patients than in those with mild malnutrition . this study shows that a chronic malabsorption has limited nutritional consequences . the patients compensate for their absorptive handicap by increasing their oral intake . 
idiopathic biliary ductopenia in adults : a report of five cases . the clinical and pathological findings of five adult cases of idiopathic nonsyndromatic paucity of interlobular bile ducts are reported . patients were 18-32 years old at the onset of the disease ; four presented with pruritus and/or jaundice and one with bleeding of the esophageal varices . two patients were siblings . serum alkaline phosphatase counts ranged from 1 to 16 times the upper normal value , and total bilirubin counts ranged from 0.6 to 8.8 mg/dl ( 10 to 150 mumol/l ) . initial liver biopsy showed portal and periportal fibrosis with cholangiolar proliferation and reduction in the number of interlobular bile ducts . antimitochondrial antibodies were absent , and bile ducts were normal after opacification . the patients were observed for 3-11 years . repeated liver biopsies in the five patients showed progression of the lesions , with development of biliary type cirrhosis in four . two of the four patients with cirrhosis died of hepatic failure 3 and 11 years after onset of the disease . in the two other cases , liver transplantation was performed successfully . these cases suggest that chronic cholestasis with marked ductopenia resembling the nonsyndromatic paucity described in infancy and childhood may reveal itself at an adult age . this disorder , possibly familial , may rapidly progress to severe and even fatal liver disease and could be a new indication for liver transplantation . 
omeprazole in the management of intractable esophageal ulceration following injection sclerotherapy . transient esophageal ulceration is a common finding after sclerotherapy of varices . a small proportion of these ulcers become chronic and resistant to conventional therapy . such chronic ulcers have been associated with pain , stricture formation , and recurrent hemorrhage . the use of omeprazole , a proton pump inhibitor , was examined in the current study in the treatment of 10 patients ( 6 women , 4 men ; age range , 27-86 years ) with cirrhosis ( pbc , 4 ; sclerosing cholangitis , 2 ; chronic active liver disease , 2 ; alcohol , 1 ; and cryptogenic , 1 ) who developed an esophageal ulcer after a mean of 13 ( range , 8-21 ) sessions of sclerotherapy . the ulcers had been present for 3-54 months despite prolonged treatment with high-dose h2-receptor antagonists and sucralfate . in each case one or more complications had occurred : severe pain in 3 , stricture formation in 4 , and recurrent hemorrhage in 7 cases . after an 8-week course of omeprazole , 40 mg daily , endoscopy confirmed complete healing of the ulceration in all 10 cases with symptom resolution . in 2 cases the ulcer recurred , with associated bleeding within 6 weeks of discontinuing the treatment in 1 patient . both cases responded to repeat therapy . these results confirm the efficacy of omeprazole for postsclerotherapy ulceration and imply that acid-pepsin has a role in perpetuating such ulcers . 
heterotopic liver transplantation for fulminant wilson 's disease . wilson 's disease may present with severe acute hepatocellular failure . the only effective treatment for fulminant wilson 's disease is liver transplantation , which may lead to reversal of the underlying disease . some patients with cirrhosis who are too ill to undergo orthotopic liver transplantation have been treated with heterotopic liver transplantation . however , use of heterotopic liver transplantation for fulminant hepatocellular failure has not been successful . this case study involves a patient in whom a heterotopic liver transplant was successfully used for treatment of wilson 's disease presenting with fulminant hepatocellular failure . 
caseating hepatic granulomas in hodgkin 's lymphoma . a 68-year-old man presented with recurrent hodgkin 's lymphoma after a 9-year disease-free interval induced by chemotherapy . in addition to histological evidence of recurrent hodgkin 's disease , the liver biopsy specimen showed extensive caseating granulomas . cultures of bone marrow and liver tissue tested negative for mycobacterium tuberculosis . no antituberculous treatment was administered , and the patient had an excellent clinical response to additional chemotherapy for lymphoma . hodgkin 's lymphoma should be added to the list of disease entities associated with caseating granulomas in the liver . 
expandable biliary metal stents for malignancies : endoscopic insertion and diathermic cleaning for tumor ingrowth . seventeen patients with malignant biliary strictures have been treated by endoscopic insertion of self-expandable metallic prostheses . two patients received two prostheses inserted simultaneously in both the left and right hepatic ducts for klatskin tumor type iii . immediate results were satisfactory despite an operative mortality of 18 % , and neither early nor late clogging was observed even in patients who presented previously with sludge above plastic stents that were removed . however , among five patients followed for more than 4 months , two presented with obstruction due to tumor ingrowth into the stent through the metallic mesh . accordingly , initial enthusiasm concerning long-term patency of these stents has decreased . however , we describe a technique of " diathermic cleaning " of tumor ingrowth which can easily restore the stent patency . the advantages of these wire mesh 30 f stents are their easier insertion , better immediate drainage , and absence of dislocation or perforation . 
sincalide-aided ultrasonography of the common bile duct as a predictor of biliary obstruction determined by ercp and biliary manometry . sonographically observed changes in common bile duct caliber following intravenous sincalide injection were correlated with distal common duct pathology as defined by endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and biliary manometry . thirty-two patients , 17 with prior cholecystectomies , were studied . in post-cholecystectomy patients , a 1-mm or greater diminution of duct caliber within 5 min represented a normal response . when gallbladder contraction occurred in normal patients with an intact gallbladder , no change or a diminution in duct caliber was observed . when gallbladder contraction was not observed , a normal response was considered to be the same as that in post-cholecystectomy patients with a diminution in duct caliber occurring . by using these criteria two false negatives , both with hypertensive sphincters of oddi that responded normally to sincalide injection , were encountered . this technique was valuable in defining non-obstructed post-cholecystectomy dilated bile ducts which demonstrated a prompt diminution in caliber following sincalide injection . 
the role of endoscopic injection sclerotherapy in the management of bleeding peristomal varices . peristomal varices usually occur in patients with enterostomies who develop portal hypertension , and represent a cause of recurrent or intractable gastrointestinal bleeding . treatment options for such bleeding include surgical ligation of varices , stoma revision with devascularization , injection sclerotherapy , portacaval shunt , or liver transplantation . we reviewed the records of seven patients with peristomal varices , who were followed for a mean of 17 months after diagnosis . fourteen episodes of clinically significant peristomal bleeding occurred in six patients . surgical ligation of varices was ineffective in controlling bleeding in two of three patients , although stoma revision with devascularization was temporarily effective in two other patients . injection sclerotherapy , used in three patients , effectively controlled acute bleeding without serious complications or need for surgery . definitive treatment for peristomal bleeding ( portacaval shunt or liver transplantation ) has prevented any further bleeding in three patients for a mean of 8 months after surgery . 
variceal sclerosis in schistosomotic patients : a 5-year follow-up study . to assess the therapeutic possibilities of injection sclerosis in schistosomotic portal hypertension , a 5-year prospective study was conducted in northeast brazil , where this parasitosis is endemic . fifty patients undergoing endoscopy for upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage from rupture of esophageal varices from july through december 1981 were chosen for the study . the 32 consenting patients were submitted to injection sclerotherapy paravariceally , using ethanolamine oleate ; the 18 refusing to participate were assigned to the control group . the incidence of rebleeding was 28.1 % in the former and 44.5 % in the latter , a difference which was not statistically significant ( fisher 's test , p = 0.375 ) . mortality from rupture of esophageal varices was 3.1 % in the sclerotherapy group and 27.7 % in the control group , a statistically significant difference ( fischer 's test , p = 0.017 ) . since sclerotherapy markedly improved the long-term survival rate of the patients , this procedure is advocated for the treatment of esophageal varices in cases of portal hypertension due to schistosomiasis . 
fatty liver hepatitis ( steatohepatitis ) and obesity : an autopsy study with analysis of risk factors . steatohepatitis ( fatty liver hepatitis ) , histologically identical to alcoholic disease , occurs in some obese patients after jejunoileal bypass . a similar lesion occurs rarely in obese patients without bypass surgery , but the risk factors are poorly understood . hepatic steatosis , steatohepatitis and fibrosis were sought in 351 apparently nonalcoholic patients at autopsy and various risk factors were evaluated . incidence of steatosis and steatohepatitis correlated with the degree of obesity . steatohepatitis was found in 18.5 % of markedly obese patients and 2.7 % of lean patients . additional risk factors for steatohepatitis were type ii diabetes , weight loss in the preterminal period shortly before death and intravenous glucose therapy in the last week of life . severe fibrosis was found in 13.8 % of markedly obese patients and in 6.6 % of lean patients ; this difference was largely explained by the higher prevalence of diabetes in obese groups . the risk factors defined in this study are known to be associated with abnormalities of free fatty acid metabolism . obesity , type ii diabetes and intravenous glucose therapy are associated with hyperinsulinemia , which may inhibit fatty acid oxidation . obesity and weight loss increase the presentation of fatty acids to the liver . similar metabolic changes may occur in obese patients after jejunoileal bypass surgery . thus this study supports the hypothesis that fatty acids have a role in the hepatocellular necrosis found in some obese individuals . 
immunological studies before and during interferon therapy in chronic hbv infection : identification of factors predicting response . lymphoblastoid interferon is effective therapy in some but not all patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection . to assess whether immunological parameters were predictive of response to interferon therapy , we determined the human leukocyte antigen type , cd4/cd8 ratio , natural killer cell activity , igm anti-hbc antibody levels and concanavalin a-induced lymphocyte proliferative response in 30 patients before treatment . in addition , to investigate the mechanisms of action of interferon in promoting hepatitis b virus clearance , we serially measured the cd4/cd8 ratios , natural killer activity and lymphocyte proliferative response at wk 4 , 8 and 12 of treatment . a beneficial response to therapy was defined as the sustained clearance of hbeag and serum hepatitis b virus dna within 1 yr of commencing therapy . elevated igm anti-hbc levels were associated with a beneficial response to therapy , but there was no correlation observed between response and pretreatment cd4/cd8 ratio , natural killer activity or lymphocyte proliferative response . six of seven human leukocyte antigen dr3-positive patients responded . no measurable changes in the immunological parameters studied were observed in the nonresponder group , whereas a significant rise in cd4/cd8 ratio , associated with a fall in peripheral cd8 number and a decline in measurable nk activity , was seen in the responder group . these changes were maximal at the time of hepatitis b virus dna clearance , which was associated with a transient increase in hepatic inflammation . 
antibodies to nuclear lamin c in chronic hepatitis delta virus infection . sera of patients with chronic hepatitis delta virus infection stained the nuclear periphery in indirect immunofluorescence . using proteins of isolated nuclei , isolated nuclear matrices , the nuclear pore complex-lamina fraction and purified lamins a and c as antigen source in immunoblotting experiments , nuclear lamin c was identified as the reactive antigen . most sera tested ( 8 of 10 ) recognized nuclear lamin c exclusively , but not the nuclear lamins a and b. antibodies reacting with both nuclear lamins a and c , which share extensive sequence homologies , have been reported to occur in autoimmune hepatitis and primary biliary cirrhosis . the present findings suggest that the novel autoantibody associated with chronic hepatitis delta virus infection recognizes an epitope localized in the short carboxyterminal region of nuclear lamin c. 
human hepatic regenerative stimulator substance : partial purification and biological characterization of hepatic stimulator substance from human fetal liver cells . current support or replacement therapies for fulminant acute hepatic failure are frequently very disappointing . in this study , human hepatic stimulator substance -- a liver-specific growth factor -- was partially purified from human fetal liver cells and characterized by its biological effects . almost 70-fold protein content was purified with an approximately 80-fold increase in specific growth stimulator activity . human hepatic stimulator substance proved to be heat-stable , protease-sensitive , organ-specific and species-nonspecific . human hepatic stimulator substance produced a two - to threefold increase of 3h-thymidine incorporation into hepatic dna when injected intraperitoneally into growing weanling mice ( nonhepatectomized ) or regenerating rats ( 34 % hepatectomy ) . the effects of hhss in reversing the lethality of d-galactosamine ( 1.6 gm/kg body weight ) - induced hepatic necrosis in rats were further evaluated . a survival rate of 4 % ( n = 24 ) , 41 % ( n = 12 , p less than 0.05 ) , 33 % ( n = 12 , p less than 0.05 ) , 31 % ( n = 13 , p less than 0.05 ) and 18 % ( n = 11 , p greater than 0.05 ) was observed when the rats were injected with 4 ml of saline intraperitoneally , 4 ml of human intact fetal hepatocytes ( 2.4 x 10 ( 8 ] intraperitoneally , 4 ml of human hepatic stimulator substance intraperitoneally , 2 ml of twofold concentrated human hepatic stimulator substance intravenously and 1 ml of fourfold human hepatic stimulator substance intramuscularly , respectively , 20 hr after poisoning . 
calcium absorption in bone disease associated with chronic cholestasis during childhood . fractional absorption of calcium was determined in 9 children aged 4.9 to 16.9 yr with chronic cholestatic liver disease to determine the role of calcium malabsorption in the development of metabolic bone disease . radiological evidence of rickets was absent in all patients , but bone density , measured by single beam photon absorptiometry of the distal radius , was reduced in eight of nine subjects . serum calcium and phosphorus concentrations were normal in all except one subject . serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d concentration was decreased compared with controls in only one of nine patients , but serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d concentrations were diminished in seven of nine subjects . in all subjects , dietary calcium and phosphorus intakes were greater than 80 % of the rda . fractional absorption of calcium , determined by oral and intravenous administration of stable calcium isotopes , was similar in cholestatic compared with control subjects ( 37.1 % + / - 12.5 % vs. 34.0 % + / - 16.4 % ) . in the cholestatic subjects , calcium absorption correlated with serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d ( r = 0.871 , p less than 0.002 ) but not 25-hydroxyvitamin d concentrations . calcium balance , assessed by the duplicate diet method , was positive in four of five subjects . anthropometric measurements were performed to examine the relationship between nutritional status and bone mineral content . heights of all subjects were less than or equal to the 10th percentile and fat stores and somatic protein stores were less than the 25th percentile in six of nine subjects . we conclude that factors other than calcium malabsorption and decreased serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d concentration contribute to diminished bone mass in children with cholestatic liver disease . 
hepatic injury induced by bile salts : correlation between biochemical and morphological events . continuous intravenous infusion of taurochenodeoxycholate at a rate of 0.4 mumol.min-1 .100 gm-1 for only 30 min in rats caused threefold to tenfold greater release of proteins ( alkaline phosphatase , lactate dehydrogenase and albumin ) into bile in comparison with animals infused with tauroursodeoxycholate at much higher rates ( 1.8 mumol.min-1 .100 gm-1 ) for 2 hr . the simultaneous infusion of tauroursodeoxycholate and taurochenodeoxycholate ( 0.6 and 0.4 mumol.min-1 .100 gm-1 , respectively ) for 2 hr prevented the marked biochemical changes in the bile induced by taurochenodeoxycholate for 15 to 60 min exhibited significantly more necrotic hepatocytes , especially in zone 1 , in comparison with animals infused with tauroursodeoxycholate or a combination of taurochenodeoxycholate and tauroursodeoxycholate . a good correlation was observed between biochemical and morphological indices of bile acid-induced hepatocyte injury . these data suggest that ( a ) primary events induced by the acute infusion of toxic bile salts responsible for cholestasis include zone 1 hepatocellular necrosis and ( b ) this can be prevented by the simultaneous infusion of tauroursodeoxycholate . 
pathological observations of intrahepatic peribiliary glands in 1,000 consecutive autopsy livers . iii . survey of necroinflammation and cystic dilatation . pathological changes and significance of intrahepatic peribiliary glands , hitherto poorly recognized intrahepatic elements , have been evaluated in our laboratory . in this report , we surveyed necroinflammatory and cystic changes of the peribiliary glands in 1,000 consecutive autopsy livers because these two changes coexisted frequently in the same liver . the necroinflammatory change was found in 228 livers ( 22.8 % ) and the cystic change in 202 livers ( 20.2 % ) , and 103 cases showed both changes in the same liver . the necroinflammatory change was frequently found in intrahepatic cholangitis and extrahepatic biliary obstruction with bacterial infection , suggesting that biliary bacterial inflammation extends into these peribilary glands . this change was also frequent in systemic infection or septicemia without biliary bacterial infection , implying that the peribiliary glands were also damaged in such conditions without direct infection . the cystic change was frequent in livers with portal hypertension or obstruction , adult polycystic disease and necroinflammation of the glands , suggesting that the cystic change of the glands could occur as the result of the disturbance of intrahepatic circulation or as the result of inflammatory destruction of the glandular conduits . some of peribiliary cysts may be of congenital origin . dysfunction related to these pathological changes in the glands may diminish seromucous secretion and cause alterations in hepatic bile composition . the cystic change of the glands may retard bile flow by compressing bile duct lumina . 
effects of salt , race , and hypertension on reactivity to stressors . blood pressure and heart rate reactivity to a psychological stressor and to a cold pressor test were examined in a group of 51 normotensive and 37 unmedicated hypertensive men . all were studied twice , once while the participants were maintained on a moderately high salt ( 200 meq sodium/day ) diet and once while the participants were maintained on an extremely low salt ( 10 meq sodium/day ) diet . dietary salt had no effect on blood pressure or heart rate responses to the two stressors . the systolic and diastolic responses of the white participants to the psychological stressor were greater than those of the black participants ( both p less than 0.05 ) ; however , there was no difference between blacks and whites in reactivity to the cold pressor challenge . as compared with the normotensive group , the hypertensive group reacted to the psychological stressor with increased responses in systolic blood pressure , diastolic blood pressure , and heart rate ( all p less than 0.05 ) . the hypertensive group also hyperresponded in terms of the systolic pressure response to the cold pressor task ( p less than 0.05 ) . plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine responses were not significantly different across the two diets , races , or diagnoses . 
desmopressin and antifibrinolytics . desmopressin appears to be a safe and effective hemostatic agent for use during surgery in patients with mild to moderate hemophilia or von willebrand disease . uremic patients also benefit from substitution of desmopressin for cryoprecipitate to control bleeding . the highly variable response to desmopressin by individual patients with hemophilia or von willebrand disease dictates that each patient receive a trial administration prior to surgery ; surgery should proceed only following verification of a therapeutically effective increase in factor viii and vwf after desmopressin . use of desmopressin in patients with normal baseline hemostatic function is not clearly advantageous , although certain patient subgroups might benefit , and prospective studies have documented the drug 's safety in these cases . data are lacking to clarify a role for desmopressin during surgery in patients taking aspirin . antifibrinolytic therapy appears to decrease bleeding without increased risk after cardiac surgery . in addition , specific use after urological surgery may be beneficial in the absence of upper urinary tract bleeding . in the last ten years , other applications for antifibrinolytic therapy have been found -- both surgical ( intracranial aneurysms , oral and lacrimal surgery ) and nonsurgical ( in cancer patients and for gastrointestinal bleeding ) . although anecdotal reports have fueled fears of increased thrombosis with antifibrinolytics , controlled studies indicate no increased risk . 
hemodialysis-associated febrile episodes : surveillance before and after major alteration in the water treatment system . surveillance for bacteremic or pyrogenic episodes associated with hemodialysis was undertaken before and after the reconstruction of the water treatment system at our university medical center . the new water system included a holding tank with iodination treatment . the water delivered to individual dialysis stations had only occasional positive bacterial cultures ( 3 of 21 samples before completion of construction , 2 of 16 samples afterwards ) and intermittent detection of endotoxin ( 6 of 21 samples before completion of construction , 9 of 16 samples afterwards ) at monthly sampling . among 51 individual dialysis treatments ( 25 patients ) before reconstruction and 56 treatments ( 29 patients ) , after , only 2 and 3 febrile events were identified , respectively . all of these were associated with underlying infectious illness and not with the hemodialysis procedure itself . overall , we conclude that pyrogenic episodes associated directly with hemodialysis treatment are infrequent , and that the addition of a water storage tank with iodination treatment does not appear to increase the risk of bacteremia or pyrogenic episodes . 
swimmer 's migraine . three cases of sudden , severe headache occurring during swimming are described . a 51-year-old female had been engaging in a swimming exercise for about 20 minutes when she suddenly experienced a pulsating headache in the parietotemporal region , accompanied by nausea . a few days later , she experienced a similar episode , again during swimming practice . a 45-year-old male developed a pulsating headache with nausea immediately after diving into a swimming pool , and had a similar attack during diving practice 1 week later . a 32-year-old male developed a pulsating headache accompanied by nausea while swimming in the sea . in all three cases , blood pressure , pulse rate , neurological findings , cervical spinal x-rays , brain ct scans , and hematological findings were normal and the outcome was good . although these patients ' headaches were diagnosed as benign exertional headache , pathophysiologically they appeared to resemble the headache associated with sexual activity . 
thermographic findings in cranio-facial pain . this work assesses the differences in the thermographic findings in the craniofacial and neck areas between normal individuals and patients with craniofacial pain or headache , and investigates the influence of muscle contraction on such findings . thermographic records were taken in 10 healthy subjects and 47 patients suffering from craniofacial pain or headache of different kinds . in the patients with painful episodes the record was taken between attacks . in all the normal subjects and in 19 patients lateral thermograms were also taken during and after maximal tooth clenching for three minutes . the majority of the patients , as compared to the normal group , showed some thermal alterations and asymmetry . such alterations seem to be due both to vascular instability and muscle contraction : these two factors may be variably superimposed in the different conditions . in patients with cluster headache or chronic paroxysmal hemicrania the presence on the symptomatic side of a cold spot along the supraorbital area and/or the inner orbital canthus , was a constant finding . we conclude that thermography is useful as an additional diagnostic means in patients with head and face pain , and that the clenching test may increase the amount of information provided . 
pivotal role of early and sustained infarct vessel patency in patients with acute myocardial infarction . thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction unequivocally has improved short - and long-term mortality . the fundamental goal of therapy for evolving myocardial infarction is early and sustained infarct vessel recanalization . the mechanisms linking an open artery with improved long-term survival and other clinical outcomes are presented with use of data from extensive clinical trials . 
role of angioplasty in myocardial infarction management strategies : a review . the role of angioplasty in acute myocardial infarction has been extensively studied in the past few years . although angioplasty in some circumstances can be the primary reperfusion intervention , logistic problems and the excellent results of intravenous thrombolytic therapy have resulted in postlytic angioplasty being the preferred use of this interventional strategy . clinical trials of this strategy have not supported its routine use , however , and a much more selective application of postthrombolytic coronary artery dilation is advocated at this time . 
effect of activity on supraventricular tachyarrhythmias after coronary artery bypass surgery . the purpose of this study was to evaluate patient activities , professional staff activities , backrest position , and diurnal variations as factors that may contribute to the onset of supraventricular tachyarrhythmias ( svt ) after coronary artery bypass surgery ( cabg ) . the activities surrounding the recognition of first-onset svt , as well as preoperative and postoperative data and patient characteristics were examined in 249 patients having cabg . one hundred seventy-three patients qualified for the study ; 28 % of these patients ( n = 49 ) had svt . no statistical difference was found between the subjects with svt and those without svt when sex , cross-clamp time , creatine kinase peak , hemoglobin and hematocrit levels , and number of bypasses were examined . patients who had svt were older than those who did not : 64.8 years for the svt group versus 60.7 years for the non-svt group ( p less than 0.01 ) . svt was rare in the first 24 hours after surgery , whereas 60 % of the cases occurred during the next 48 hours , without significant diurnal variation : mean time of onset was 11:50 am . no particular activity of the patient or nurse influenced the onset of svt during the postoperative period in this group . 
trapped-lung syndrome after cardiac surgery : a potentially preventable complication of pleural injury . a case of trapped-lung syndrome after coronary artery bypass grafting ( cabg ) is presented . a significant pleural injury occurred during the bypass operation resulting in intrapleural hemorrhage , pleural fibrosis , and trapped-lung syndrome . the physicians caring for the patient when she was first seen with the trapped-lung syndrome were unaware of the potential relationship between the two prior bypass surgeries to this pulmonary complication . recognition of the potential for pleural injury to occur after cardiac operations is important and may allow for earlier diagnosis and institution of appropriate therapeutic interventions . early recognition and treatment with pleural fluid drainage and reexpansion of the collapsed lung may help prevent this potentially serious pleuropulmonary complication from occurring . in addition , the presentation of this pleuropulmonary complication may be delayed after the cardiac surgery , making early diagnosis more problematic . 
effects of tracheal irritation and hypercapnia on tracheal smooth muscle in humans . both hypercapnia and tracheal irritation are known to constrict the airways in animals . to see whether similar responses occur in humans , we investigated tracheal smooth muscle ( tsm ) responses to hypercapnia and tracheal irritation with water in 14 paralyzed and anesthetized humans . tsm tone was monitored by measuring the pressure in the saline-filled cuff of the endotracheal tube . although , tracheal irritation caused tsm constriction in 10 of 14 patients , 4 patients showed no tsm response . administration of intravenous atropine attenuated the tsm constriction response . hypercapnia did not cause any change in tsm tone in any of the 14 patients . these results indicate that in paralyzed and anesthetized humans , there exist interindividual differences in the tsm responses to tracheal irritation and that hypercapnia can not be an effective stimulus for the tsm constriction . 
cerebral blood flow in acute mountain sickness . changes in cerebral blood flow ( cbf ) were measured using the radioactive xenon technique and were related to the development of acute mountain sickness ( ams ) . in 12 subjects , ascending from 150 to 3,475 m , cbf was 24 % increased at 24 h [ 45.1 to 55.9 initial slope index ( isi ) units ] and 4 % increased at 6 days ( 47.1 isi units ) . four subjects had similar increases of cbf when ascending to 3,200 m 3 mo later , indicating the reproducibility of the measurements . in nine subjects , ascending from 3,200 to 4,785-5 ,430 m , cbf increased to 76.4 isi units , 53 % above estimated sea-level values . cbf and increases in cbf were similar in subjects with or without ams . in six subjects , cbf was measured before and after therapeutic intervention . at 2 h cbf increased 22 % ( 71.3 to 87.3 isi units ) above pretreatment values in three subjects given 1.5 g acetazolamide , while three subjects given placebo showed no change . symptoms remained unaltered in all subjects during the 2 h of the study . overall , the results indicated that increases in cbf were similar in subjects with or without ams while acetazolamide-provoked increases of cbf in ams subjects caused no acute change in symptoms . alterations in cbf can not be directly implicated in the pathogenesis of ams . 
distribution of pulmonary capillary transit times in recruited networks . when pulmonary blood flow is elevated , hypoxemia can occur in the fastest-moving erythrocytes if their transit times through the capillaries fall below the minimum time for complete oxygenation . this desaturation is more likely to occur if the distribution of capillary transit times about the mean is large . increasing cardiac output is known to decrease mean pulmonary capillary transit time , but the effect on the distribution of transit times has not been reported . we measured the mean and variance of transit times in single pulmonary capillary networks in the dependent lung of anesthetized dogs by in vivo videofluorescence microscopy of a fluorescein dye bolus passing from an arteriole to a venule . when cardiac output increased from 2.9 to 9.9 l/min , mean capillary transit time decreased from 2.0 to 0.8 s. because transit time variance decreased proportionately ( relative dispersion remained constant ) , increasing cardiac output did not alter the heterogeneity of local capillary transit times in the lower lung where the capillary bed was nearly fully recruited . 
maximal o2 uptake of in situ dog muscle during acute hypoxemia with constant perfusion . we investigated the relationships among maximal o2 uptake ( vo2max ) , effluent venous po2 ( pvo2 ) , and calculated mean capillary po2 ( pco2 ) in isolated dog gastrocnemius in situ as arterial po2 ( pao2 ) was progressively reduced with muscle blood flow held constant . the hypothesis that vo2max is determined in part by peripheral tissue o2 diffusion predicts proportional declines in vo2max and pco2 if the diffusing capacity of the muscle remains constant . the inspired o2 fraction was altered in each of six dogs to produce four different levels of pao2 [ 22 + / - 2 , 29 + / - 1 , 38 + / - 1 , and 79 + / - 4 ( se ) torr ] . muscle blood flow , with the circulation isolated , was held constant at 122 + / - 15 ml .100 g-1 . min-1 while the muscle worked maximally ( isometric twitches at 5-7 hz ) at each of the four different values of pao2 . arterial and venous samples were taken to measure lactate , ph , po2 , pco2 , and muscle vo2 . pco2 was calculated using fick 's law of diffusion and a bohr integration procedure . vo2max fell progressively ( p less than 0.01 ) with decreasing pao2 . the decline in vo2max was proportional ( r = 0.99 ) to the fall in both muscle pvo2 and calculated pco2 while the calculated muscle diffusing capacity was not different among the four conditions . fatigue developed more rapidly with lower pao2 , although lactate output from the muscle was not different among conditions . these results are consistent with the hypothesis that resistance to o2 diffusion in the peripheral tissue may be a principal determinant of vo2max . 
effect of ischemia reperfusion or hypoxia reoxygenation on lung vascular permeability and resistance . the effect of ischemia reperfusion or hypoxia reoxygenation on pulmonary vascular permeability and resistance was studied in 25 isolated blood-perfused dog lungs . vascular permeability , assessed by determining filtration coefficient ( kf ) , and vascular resistances were measured at the beginning and end of the experiment . ischemia reperfusion was produced by occluding blood flow to the lung for 3 h and reperfusing for 1 h , whereas hypoxia reoxygenation was obtained by ventilating the lung with 95 % n2-5 % co2 for 3 h and then ventilating with 95 % o2-5 % co2 for 1 h with no interruption of perfusion . there was a significant increase in kf in both ischemia reperfusion and hypoxia reoxygenation groups ( 51 and 85 % , respectively ) , and total vascular resistance increased greatly in both groups ( 386 and 532 % , respectively ) . two additional groups were also studied in which the ischemia reperfusion or hypoxia reoxygenation lungs were pretreated with allopurinol ( 20 micrograms/ml ) . the kf did not significantly increase in either the allopurinol ischemia reperfusion or the allopurinol hypoxia reoxygenation groups ( 22 and 6 % , respectively ) . however , total vascular resistance significantly increased in both groups ( 239 and 224 % , respectively ) . although vascular permeability is modestly increased by both ischemia reperfusion and hypoxia reoxygenation , the predominant change in these conditions is the increased vascular resistance , which predominantly affects the postcapillary resistance and would result in a greater tendency for edema to develop in these slightly damaged lungs . allopurinol , which inhibits xanthine oxidase , attenuated the permeability changes in both groups and may be useful in preventing ischemia reperfusion injury in certain conditions . 
two discharge patterns of carotid body chemoreceptors in the goat . twenty-nine single carotid body chemoreceptor units recorded during normocapnic normoxia from 20 anesthetized goats were classified into two groups by discharge pattern . thirteen fibers , which had interspike interval distributions with a prominent peak [ 24.0 + / - 9.8 % ( sd ) ] at 0 - to 20-ms bin , were termed bursting fibers ( bf ) . the 16 remaining fibers were termed nonbursting fibers ( nbf ) ; these had no notable peak in the interval distributions . during hypoxia and hypercapnia , the chemoreceptor fibers continued to discharge in their established patterns . the interval distribution of most nbf spike trains could be described with the poisson process , but none of the bf could be . however , except for the intervals in the range of 0-20 ms , the interval distribution of the bf could be described as exponential . this study suggests that 1 ) there are two distinct populations of the goat chemoreceptor fiber , each with an inherent discharge pattern ; 2 ) the chemoreceptor did not code information about arterial po2 and pco2 in different patterns ; and 3 ) the basic chemotransduction mechanism is likely the same in bf and nbf , and the difference in discharge pattern is more likely to reflect processes downstream from the transducer . 
increased fatigue of isovelocity vs. isometric contractions of canine diaphragm . a comparison of fatigue as a loss of force with repeated contractions over time was performed in canine respiratory muscle by isometric ( nonshortening ) and isovelocity ( shortening ) contractions . in situ diaphragm muscle strips were attached to a linear ergometer and electrically stimulated ( 30 or 40 hz ) via the left phrenic nerve to produce either isometric ( n = 12 ) or isovelocity ( n = 12 ) contractions ( 1.5 s ) from optimal muscle length ( lo = 8.8 cm ) . similar velocities of shortening between isovelocity experiments [ 0.19 + / - 0.02 ( sd ) lo/s ] were produced by maximizing the mean power output ( wmax = 210 + / - 27 mw/cm2 ) that could be developed over 1.5 s when displacement was approximately 0.30 lo . initial peak isometric tension was 1.98 kg/cm2 , whereas initial peak isovelocity tension was 1.84 kg/mc2 ( p less than 0.01 ) or 93 % of initial isometric tension . fatigue trials of 5 min were conducted on muscles contracting at a constant duty cycle ( 0.43 ) . at the end of the trials , peak isovelocity tension had fallen to 50 % of initial isometric tension ( p less than 0.01 ) , whereas peak isometric tension had only fallen by 27 % . these results indicate that muscle shortening during force production has a significant influence on diaphragm muscle fatigue . we conclude that the effects of shortening on fatigue must be considered in models of respiratory muscle function , because these muscles typically shorten during breathing . 
results of treatment of displaced patellar fractures by partial patellectomy . the results of partial patellectomy as a treatment for displaced patellar fractures were assessed retrospectively with use of clinical , radiographic , and isokinetic strength-testing criteria . forty patients who had been followed for an average of 8.4 years were studied . in the extremity that had been operated on , the mean active range of motion was 94 per cent , the circumference of the thigh was 100 per cent , and the strength of the quadriceps was 85 per cent of these measurements in the contralateral extremity . the over-all result was rated as excellent in twenty patients , good in eleven , fair in six , and poor in three . there was a significant statistical correlation between the type of fracture and the outcome . the results of this study indicate that partial patellectomy can be an effective treatment for selected patellar fractures . 
use of a knee-brace for control of tibial translation and rotation . a comparison , in cadavera , of available models . we assessed the relative restraints that are provided by fourteen currently available functional knee-braces , using six limbs in cadavera . the tests were made at 30 and 60 degrees of flexion of the knee , and a mechanical loading system applied loads that caused anterior-posterior translation and internal-external rotation . the braces limited abnormal tibiofemoral displacements by 10 to 75 per cent in translation ; there was more variation in rotation . this study demonstrated that functional knee-braces provide a restraining influence that may be beneficial in the control of abnormal displacements of the knee , but that the degree of restraint varies considerably . 
hypertension after operative correction of club-foot deformity . severe hypertension occurred as a postoperative complication after correction of a club-foot deformity in four children ( seven feet ) who were between the ages of two and three years and had no history of hypertension . the hypertension subsided slowly after administration of antihypertensive medications or more rapidly after release of the correction that had been obtained operatively . 
comparison of a hybrid with an uncemented total hip replacement . a retrospective matched-pair study . the efficacy of a type of uncemented total hip replacement was compared with that of a hybrid total hip replacement in which an uncemented acetabular and a cemented femoral component were used . twenty-five patients who had had a hybrid total hip replacement were matched , by age , weight , sex , and diagnosis , with twenty-five patients who had had an uncemented total hip replacement . all of the operations were done by one surgeon , who used the same operative approach and the same regimen of postoperative rehabilitation . all of the patients were followed for at least two years . the mean postoperative hip score was 96 points for the hybrid group and 84 points for the cementless group ( p less than 0.02 ) . twenty-four ( 96 per cent ) of the patients who had a hybrid prosthesis reported no or only slight pain postoperatively . in the uncemented group , of the six patients ( 24 per cent ) who reported mild to severe pain , five had pain in the thigh , a limp occurred more frequently , five femoral components had migrated , and four hips needed reoperation . the results with the hybrid replacement that had a cemented femoral component were superior to those with the uncemented femoral component over the relatively brief period for which these patients were followed . 
the lateral approach for operative release of post-traumatic contracture of the elbow . a lateral approach was used to release a post-traumatic contracture of the elbow in seven patients , and the results were evaluated an average of thirty-eight months postoperatively . extension improved from an average flexion contracture of 45 degrees preoperatively to one of 12 degrees postoperatively , and the average point of maximum flexion increased from 116 degrees preoperatively to 129 degrees postoperatively . the average arc of motion increased 46 degrees . all patients began using a continuous-passive-motion device immediately after the operation . there were no problems with wound-healing or formation of heterotopic bone . 
treatment of infection after total knee arthroplasty by debridement with retention of the components . thirty-one total knee arthroplasties were followed by infection in twenty-seven patients who were subsequently treated with debridement , retention of the components , and intravenous administration of antibiotics . the results were reviewed retrospectively in an effort to evaluate the function of the prostheses that had been salvaged successfully and to identify the causes of failure of those around which an infection had recurred . at the most recent follow-up ( average duration , 8.8 years ) , infection had recurred around twenty-four ( 77 per cent ) of the thirty-one arthroplasties . seven knees ( 23 per cent ) remained free of infection . function remained satisfactory , although revision was subsequently needed in two knees for reasons other than infection . one cause of failure was the duration of the infection before debridement . this averaged twenty-one days for the seven knees in which the prosthetic arthroplasty had been salvaged and thirty-six days for the twenty-four knees in which treatment had failed . another cause of failure was the type of organism : staphylococcus aureus had caused the infection in fourteen ( 58 per cent ) of the twenty-four knees in which the treatment failed but in only two of the seven knees in which the prosthetic arthroplasty was salvaged . in addition , eight infections in the first group were resistant to penicillin , whereas both infections in the second group were sensitive to penicillin . the four infections with gram-negative organisms in the series were all in knees in which the treatment failed . all six hinged prostheses that were used failed . 
amputation or limb-lengthening for partial or total absence of the fibula . thirty-two patients who had ablation of the foot by the syme or boyd technique for partial or total absence of the fibula , with subsequent fitting of a prosthesis , were compared with eleven patients who had lengthening of the lower limb by the wagner method , to assess the long-term results of each procedure . the final results were evaluated on the basis of pain , limp , limb-length discrepancy , level of physical activity , and satisfaction of the patient . of the thirty-two patients who had an amputation , twenty-eight ( 88 per cent ) had a satisfactory result , compared with only six ( 55 per cent ) of the eleven patients who had limb-lengthening . the amount of inequality between the lower limbs was classified as follows : group i -- the foot of the shorter extremity was at the distal third of the contralateral , normal limb , and the percentage of shortening was 15 per cent or less ; group ii -- the foot of the shorter extremity was at the level of the middle third of the contralateral , normal limb , and the percentage of shortening was between 16 and 25 per cent ; and group iii -- the foot of the shorter extremity was at the level of the proximal third of the contralateral , normal limb , and the percentage of shortening was greater than 26 per cent . lengthening was best suited for patients in group i who had stable hips , knees , and ankles and a plantigrade foot . patients in groups ii and iii were best served by ablation of the foot and fitting of a prosthesis . 
total knee arthroplasty in obese patients . we examined 182 patients ( 257 knees ) who had had a total knee arthroplasty two to five six years earlier . the patients were grouped into five weight classes . eighteen patients ( twenty-seven knees ) were considered moderately obese and twelve patients ( twenty-seven knees ) , severely obese . the results in all but four knees were rated excellent or good . one patient needed a revision procedure for late infection , and the result was rated poor . three results were rated fair . there was no discernible difference in the over-all scores among the five weight groups . however , 30 per cent of the knees of the moderately and severely obese patients had patellofemoral symptoms , whereas the incidence was 14 per cent in the other groups ( p less than 0.03 ) . no clear-cut association was found between obesity and either thrombophlebitis or complications related to the wound . 
recent advance in treatment of stanford type a aortic dissection . during the period between november 1986 and november 1988 , 13 consecutive patients with stanford type a aortic dissection ( 8 acute and 5 chronic ) were treated as follows : ( 1 ) urgent operation for cases with pericardial tamponade or severe heart failure , ( 2 ) initial medical treatment followed by elective operation for acute but stable cases or chronic cases , and ( 3 ) routine use of open distal anastomosis or selective cerebral perfusion . one patient died during medical treatment : 5 patients were operated on emergently . the remaining 2 acute and 5 chronic cases were operated on electively . there were no operative deaths , neurological disturbances , or late deaths . it is suggested that acute dissection of the ascending aorta requires immediate surgical intervention , especially when the entry is in the ascending aorta . on the other hand , it is also suggested that one could avoid emergency operations in selected cases with retrograde extension of the aortic dissection . 
aggressive blood conservation in coronary artery surgery : impact on patient care . data on 100 consecutive non-emergency coronary artery bypass ( cabg ) patients were analyzed retrospectively . sixty-nine patients received no homologous blood ( group i ) . thirty-one patients received a total of 118 units of blood products averaging 2.23 units of red cells ( group ii ) . the average red cell transfusion rate for all patients was 0.7 units per patient . the median age for group i was 61 and group ii was 68 years ( p less than 0.05 ) . the average number of grafts was the same for both ( 3 per patient ) with 75 % of group i and 58 % of group ii receiving internal mammary artery ( ima ) grafts ( p less than 0.05 ) . twelve of the group ii patients who received intraoperative transfusions on cardiopulmonary bypass to maintain adequate hemoglobin levels were older and had lower admission hematocrits : 36 + / - 0.8 % compared to 41 + / - 0.5 % for all other patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . average postoperative blood loss was 889 + / - 38 ml for group i and 1077 + / - 104 ml for group ii ( p less than 0.05 ) . increased hemorrhage was correlated with bypass time and ima use but not with preoperative heparin administration , pre-existing risk factors ( diabetes , hypertension , etc. ) , bleeding time , post-bypass clotting time , age or number of grafts . two patients in group ii and none in group i required exploration for excessive postoperative hemorrhage . mortality rate was 2 % ( both in group ii , neither transfusion related ) . discharge hematocrits were the same for all at 29.4 + / - 0.4 % . among anemia-related postoperative symptoms , only sinus tachycardia was significantly higher in group i ( 20 % ) compared to group ii ( 6.5 % ) . 
measurement of resistance versus flow in assessing efficiency of aortocoronary bypass grafts . measurement of flow in saphenous bypass grafts with an electromagnetic flowmeter is complicated and poorly reproducible . since coronary flow is largely dependent on variable factors the stable value of resistance seems more appropriate for comparison . a simple method has been developed for intraoperative measurement of resistance in the respective coronary bed . pressure is recorded in the saphenous graft by an electromanometer during continuous flushing with known amounts of blood , and resistance is calculated instantaneously . the procedure is very simple and takes less than one minute . the quality of the saphenous vein itself can be assessed simultaneously by the same method . resistances were measured during coronary surgery in over 500 saphenous grafts . the results were highly reproducible and comparable . excellent flows can be expected if resistance is below 200 peripheral resistance units ( pru ) ; if this is over 800 pru flow is very poor . 
an unusual late complication following surgical repair of tetralogy of fallot . a case is presented of extrusion of right ventricular outflow tract patch material through a mediastino-cutaneous fistula occurring five years after repair of tetralogy of fallot . the focus of the mediastinal infection was an infected epicardial pacemaker electrode placed at the time of initial surgery . subsequent echocardiographic studies showed minimal right ventricular outflow tract or pulmonary arterial dilatation , and , with no further surgery , the child is well after two and a half years follow-up . 
acute dissection of the internal mammary artery : a fatal complication of coronary artery bypass grafting . a case of acute traumatic dissection of the right internal mammary artery is presented in a patient who had both imas grafted for recurrent angina 10 years after initial vein coronary revascularisation . the event was mistaken for spasm , but because of severe circulatory collapse no time was available to treat the patient appropriately . the purpose of this report is to facilitate the early recognition and avoidance of this potentially fatal complication . 
traction injury in the internal mammary artery . report of a case and review of the literature . the internal mammary artery ( ima ) is now used routinely along with saphenous vein for myocardial revascularization procedures . we have documented a particular form of non-perforating injury which may reduce blood flow during operation or may lead to early closure of the ima bypass graft . traction injury to the intima is well documented in other vessles but has not been previously reported in the ima . we present a potentially disastrous example of traction injury to the ima . 
intraoperative assessment of cerebral ischemia during carotid surgery . one of the problems in carotid surgery is the intraoperative detection of brain ischemia . none of the methods ( eeg ; stump pressure ) applied so far have been successful . branston et al . ( 1974 ) found a threshold relationship between cortical cerebral blood flow and cortical somatosensory evoked potential ( sep ) . as the local blood flow fell below about 16 ml/100 g/min a progressive reduction occurred in the amplitude of the cortical evoked potential ( n20/p25 ) , implying a fundamental failure of neuronal function in the somatosensory cortex . we have monitored cortical sep ( somatosensory evoked potential ) during 734 cea 's ( carotid endarterectomies ) in order to find an index of risk of incipient cerebral ischemia during carotid cross-clamping , to determine the need for shunting and the causes of early irreversible neurologic deficits . in 59 cases evaluation of sep was not possible because of technical difficulties . during 586 cea 's no alteration of sep occurred . however , 4 patients had an immediate postoperative neurologic deficit , while the sep remained normal . abnormal sep occurred in 89 cases and in 6 of these an irreversible loss of sep was seen . these patients awoke with a new neurologic deficit . we found a reversible abnormal sep in 83 cases . reversible changes of sep occurred mainly during carotid clamping . the diagnostic sensitivity of intraoperative sep monitoring in predicting neurologic outcome was 60 % with a specificity of 100 % . 
reappraisal of surgical treatment of traumatic transection of the thoracic aorta . since crawford 's report in 1973 , repair of traumatic transection of the thoracic aorta without shunt or bypass has emerged as a popular technique which simplifies the operation and avoids use of heparin . growing evidence , however , indicates that the incidence of paraplegia is higher with this method and may outweigh its advantages . with this in mind , we have examined our experience with 40 patients who underwent repair of aortic transection from 1975-1988 . the operated patients in our series all survived . fourteen were repaired using some type of bypass or shunt , none of whom developed paraplegia . the remaining 26 patients were repaired without a shunt and 9 ( 34.6 % ) developed paraplegia or paraparesis ( p less than 0.02 ) . paraplegia was related to aortic occlusion time ( p less than 0.002 ) . it did not occur in 11 patients with times less than 27 minutes , but happened in 2 of 8 patients with times between 28 and 35 minutes and in all 7 patients with clamp times over 35 minutes . these data suggest that shunt or bypass should be used in most cases of aortic transection . 
thrombectomy for late graft limb occlusion : our experience in 182 consecutive cases . late occlusion of an aortofemoral bypass graft is usually caused by fibrointimal hyperplasia or progressive atherosclerosis . several surgical approaches have been advocated in order to minimize the operative risk , to correct the impaired inflow and to provide a satisfactory outflow . in the last 16 years , in the institute of vascular surgery and angiology of the university of milan , we have operated upon 182 consecutive thrombosed grafts . inflow was restored by performing a graft limb thrombectomy using a fogarty balloon catheter and simultaneously employing an endarterectomy ring stripper to dislodge tenaciously adherent fibrinous material and thrombotic plug . as the superficial femoral artery was generally occluded , usually a good outflow was achieved by profundaplasty in 101 cases ( 55.5 % ) or direct bypass ( interposition graft ) , to a more distal segment of the profunda femoris artery in 55 cases ( 30.2 % ) . concomitant popliteal or tibial revascularization was done in the remaining 26 cases ( 14.3 % ) when pre-operative or intra-operative findings suggested an inadequate collateral network through the profunda femoris artery . early re-occlusion , which occurred in 14 cases ( 7.6 % ) , generally due to insufficient outflow , was corrected by additional intervention in 7 cases ( 3.8 % ) , while 7 legs were amputated for extensive atherosclerotic disease . six patients died giving a mortality rate of 3.3 % . this low rate in a high risk population is probably related to our policy of operating under loco-regional anaesthesia . long term results , with a patency rate of 62.0 % at 3 years and 60.2 % at 5 years ( life table method ) , prove that this operation is a durable procedure for correction of graft limb thrombosis . 
the effect of adjunctive arteriovenous fistula on prosthetic graft patency : a controlled study in a canine model . bilateral 6 mm ptfe grafts were placed from the external iliac artery to the femoral artery with ligation of the intervening segment of the iliofemoral artery in 14 dogs . an arteriovenous fistula was constructed at the distal anastomosis on one randomly selected side in each animal while the contralateral graft served as a control . graft follow-up ranged between 8 and 12 months in all animals . serial arteriography was performed to confirm graft and fistula patency and demonstrated persistence of antegrade flow into the arterial tree distal to all patent bypasses . femoral intraarterial pressures distal to patent grafts were identical on both sides in each animal throughout the study . cumulative life-table patency rates showed higher patency for the arteriovenous fistula bypasses than the control grafts at all time intervals : 71 % vs. 57 % at 3 months , 48 % vs. 25 % at 6 months , and 40 % vs. 22 % at 12 months , respectively . this is the first controlled study that provides experimental evidence suggesting that these bypasses may produce increased patency of prosthetic arterial grafts and lends support to their use in a clinical , prospective , randomized study . 
effect of antiplatelet and anticoagulant therapy on patency of femorotibial bypass grafts . in a retrospective study , 210 autogenous femorotibial saphenous vein grafts inserted during the 15 years from 1967 to 1982 were followed-up for a mean period of 62.3 + / - 5.7 months . seven patients , who had had eight grafts died in hospital . the remaining 202 grafts fell into three groups : ( 1 ) sixty grafts in patients who received 325 mg of dipyridamole and 1.0 g of acetylsalicylic acid daily , starting on the second postoperative day and continuing for six months . ( 2 ) one hundred and two grafts in patients on no antithrombotic therapy . ( 3 ) forty grafts in patients on warfarin therapy to maintain the prothrombin time ( prothrombin-proconvertin method ) within the therapeutic range ( 0.10 to 0.20 ) . medication was continued for six months . this group included more high-risk patients than the other two groups . the mean ages and the incidence of risk factors did not vary significantly between the groups . the patency rates in three groups at five years were 62.5 % , 44.0 % and 26.0 % and at ten years 48.5 % , 25.0 % and 21.5 % for the dipyridamole and acetylsalicylic acid , no therapy and warfarin groups , respectively . the limb salvage rates were 100 % , 96 % and 85 % in the dipyridamole and acetylsalicylic acid , no therapy and warfarin groups respectively . thus , the best results were seen in the aspirin/dipyridamole group . 
balloon dilatation versus surgical revision of infra-inguinal autogenous vein graft stenoses : long-term follow-up . although infra-inguinal autogenous vein graft stenoses may be treated by balloon dilatation ( pta ) or surgical revision , the optimal approach is undefined . over the last 7 years 24 pta procedures were performed on 37 vein graft stenoses in 19 grafts . graft stenoses were diagnosed from 2 to 72 ( mean = 17.3 ) months after implantation . pta was successfully completed in 23 ( 96 % ) of the 24 procedures including 18 ( 95 % ) of the primary , and 5 ( 100 % ) of the secondary procedures . recurrent vein graft stenosis or graft thrombosis developed in 12 ( 67 % ) grafts from 3 to 47 ( mean = 12.5 ) months after primary pta . long-term patency after primary pta was 69 % at 6 , 29 % at 12 , and 22 % at 36 months ; secondary patency was 81 % at 6 , 45 % at 12 , and 27 % at 36 months . during the same period vein graft stenosis in 7 fem-pop and 2 fem-tib grafts were surgically revised with an initial success rate of 100 % , and 2 ( 22 % ) complications . four ( 44 % ) of these grafts occluded from 1-17 ( mean 6.2 ) months after repair , yielding a primary 5-year patency of 62 % . although vein graft stenosis may be safely , effectively , and repeatedly treated with pta , long-term durability appears to be superior after surgical revision . 
surveillance of in situ infrainguinal bypass grafts : conventional vs. color flow duplex ultrasonography . surveillance of in situ saphenous vein bypass grafts with duplex scanning detects graft abnormalities which may lead to graft thrombosis . correction of these defects , while grafts are still patent , potentially improves overall graft patency . in this study we compared color flow and conventional duplex to determine whether color flow provided additional information not obtainable by conventional duplex examination . the primary patency rate ( patency maintained without intervention ) for all 51 cases was 76 % ( 39/51 ) . the secondary patency rate ( patency maintained by identification and correction of graft defects before failure ) was 88 % ( 45/51 ) . duplex scanning reduced the graft failure rate by 50 % . color flow and conventional duplex examination provided the same information regarding incipient graft failure . in 20 patients monitored with both techniques , the same number of proximal ( 100 % ) and distal ( 90 % ) anastomoses were imaged . the same number of graft defects ( three vein graft stenoses , one proximal femoral artery stenosis ) were identified . velocity data obtained using the two techniques ( peak systolic velocity in an area of stenosis and the duplex velocity ratio ) were not always the same , making calculation of percent stenosis from this data inaccurate . color flow duplex is useful in monitoring graft patency , but provides no additional information over that provided by conventional scanning . 
aneurysmal dilatation in saphenous vein bypass grafts . three patients are reported who developed aneurysmal degeneration of a saphenous vein arterial bypass graft . all three had hypercholesterolemia and two had marked elevation of triglycerides . one bypass was for occlusive disease and two for popliteal aneurysm . there was a long lag , 3 to 7 years between graft implantation and aneurysmal degeneration . the pathology was similar for all three cases with lipid laden macrophages , loss of elastic lamina , and other atherosclerotic changes in the vein wall . while atheromatous changes and aneurysm formation in saphenous vein bypass grafts are rare , this may occur especially in patients with hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia . careful and prolonged follow-up plus vigorous management of the hyperlipidemic state is mandatory in these patients . 
reproducibility of growth hormone testing procedures : a comparison between 24-hour integrated concentration and pharmacological stimulation . the purpose of this study was to compare the reproducibility of two approaches to the evaluation of gh secretion : the integrated concentration of gh ( ic-gh ) , a physiological test of gh secretion , and pharmacological stimulation tests . ic-gh was determined in 40 poorly growing children twice within 4 weeks . the first and second ic-gh were highly correlated r = 0.859 , p less than 0.001 . one hundred and thirteen poorly growing children underwent pharmacological gh stimulation tests twice within 6 weeks . a moderate correlation was found between the first and second pharmacological test r = 0.524 , p less than 0.01 . among the three pharmacological stimuli studied , clonidine ( n = 81 ) had the highest reproducibility followed by arginine ( n = 20 ) , and insulin ( n = 12 ) . we conclude that ic-gh is more consistently reproducible than the gh response to repeated pharmacological stimulation . 
susceptibility to thyroid autoimmune disease : molecular analysis of hla-d region genes identifies new markers for goitrous hashimoto 's thyroiditis . hashimoto 's thyroiditis has been shown to be associated with the hla-specificities dr4 and dr5 . since former association studies yielded variable results , we used novel molecular typing methods to assess predisposing immunogenetic factors . gene analysis of the hla-dr-dq and tumor necrosis factor region was performed in a group of hashimoto 's thyroiditis patients and randomly chosen controls using standards and nomenclature of the 10th international histocompatibility workshop . genomic dna of patients and controls was analyzed using a cdna probe of the dqb1 gene . the resulting restriction fragment patterns allowed the determination of newly defined dqw-types 1-9 . we find the strongest relative risk conferred by dqw7 ( rr = 4.7 ) , that is observed in 36 of 64 patients ( 56 % ) and only 21 of 98 controls ( 21 % ) ( p corr less than 0.002 ) . comparison of dna sequence variation in the dqb1 gene , that is found predominantly in hashimoto 's thyroiditis patients , indicates that codons 45 and 57 are critical features in dqw7 which distinguish it from other dqw specificities . the adjacent dqa1 genes also display a significant association with hashimoto 's thyroiditis ( dqa1 * 0201 / * 0301 heterozygotes were found in 37 % of patients and 15 % controls , p less than 0.03 ) . no significant association could be found with polymorphisms of the tumor necrosis factor gene . these results provide a new basis for the concept of genetic susceptibility in hashimoto 's thyroiditis and will help to elucidate the underlying autoimmune mechanisms that lead to disease at the functional level . 
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal function in patients with the premenstrual syndrome . patients with primary affective disorders , such as melancholic depression and anorexia nervosa , frequently have a hyperactive hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal ( hpa ) axis , characterized by hypersecretion of crh and a blunted acth response to exogenous crh . premenstrual syndrome ( pms ) is a luteal phase dysphoric disorder characterized by primarily affective and behavioral disturbances . hpa axis function was compared in pms patients and control women , respectively , diagnosed by dsm3-r criteria or found to have no current psychiatric disorders , determined by the schedule for affective disorders and schizophrenia-lifetime interview . urinary free cortisol excretion was the same in pms and normal women , and no differences in urinary free cortisol excretion between the follicular and luteal phases occurred in either group . two hpa axis abnormalities , however , were noted when pms patients were compared to normal women . first , basal evening cortisol concentrations in plasma were significantly decreased , while the time-integrated response of plasma cortisol to ovine ( o ) crh was significantly increased . second , the negative correlation between time-integrated plasma acth and cortisol responses to ocrh and basal luteal progesterone concentrations present in normal control women was not seen in the pms patients . these changes in basal and ocrh-stimulated plasma cortisol levels in association with normal urinary free cortisol excretion suggest that women with pms might have transient or episodic disturbances of their hpa axis , which appear adequately corrected by this system 's servomechanisms . this probably explains the maintenance of regular menstrual cycles in pms patients , which contrasts with the irregular menses observed in patients with depression , anorexia nervosa , or women who participate in chronic strenuous exercise . 
vasopressin and oxytocin responses to illusory self-motion and nausea in man . vasopressin and oxytocin are nonapeptides secreted from the neurohypophysis ; increases in vasopressin are associated with nausea and vomiting in some , but not all , species . our aim was to determine whether plasma vasopressin and oxytocin levels were altered in healthy volunteers who did or did not develop nausea during vection , an optokinetic stimulus which produces the illusion of self-motion . vection was produced by rotating a drum with an inner surface of black and white vertical stripes around the seated stationary subject . gastric myoelectrical activity was recorded continuously throughout the experiment with electrodes positioned on the abdominal surface . plasma samples were obtained before vection and after drum rotation stopped when nausea and tachygastria were present . vasopressin and oxytocin were extracted from plasma and quantified by ria . during vection six subjects reported nausea and developed gastric dysrhythmias ; six other subjects had no nausea and remained in normal 3-cpm myoelectrical rhythms . vasopressin and oxytocin values before vection were similar in each group of subjects . one minute after vection stopped , plasma vasopressin levels were significantly greater ( p less than 0.05 ) in subjects experiencing nausea and tachygastrias ( 35.4 + / - 26.7 pmol/l ) than in those without symptoms ( 2.7 + / - 0.47 pmol/l ) . oxytocin levels were unchanged by either vection or nausea . it is concluded that 1 ) vasopressin , not oxytocin , neurons in the magnocellular-neurohypophyseal system are activated during vection-induced nausea and gastric dysrhythmias ; and 2 ) illusory self-motion may be used safely to study the neuroendocrine responses to brain-gut interactions and nausea in man . 
adrenal medullitis in type i diabetes . to investigate whether cell-mediated immunity against the adrenal medulla occurs in type i diabetes ( iddm ) , we conducted a retrospective autopsy study of adrenal glands from iddm and nondiabetic subjects using formalin-fixed tissue . forty-four iddm subjects , aged 4-67 yrs ( mean + / - sd , 44.8 + / - 15.4 ) with a duration of iddm from 0-55 yr ( 28.6 + / - 14.2 ) , and 29 nondiabetic controls , aged 8-82 yr ( 51.8 + / - 18.6 ) , were evaluated for a lymphocytic infiltrate using uchl1 , which recognizes a subpopulation of resting t-lymphocytes and most activated t-lymphocytes . immunohistochemistry using antihuman b-cell antibody ( l26 ) was also performed . sections were scored for both lymphocytic infiltrates and fibrosis [ none ( 0 ) , small ( 1 ) , moderate ( 2 ) , or large ( 3 ) ] . blinded scoring was performed . a moderate to severe uchl1 infiltrate was present in 9 of 44 ( 20 % ) iddm , compared with 1 of 29 ( 3 % ) control subjects ( p less than 0.04 ) . mild to severe fibrosis ( score 1 , 2 , or 3 ) was present in 22 of 42 ( 52 % ) iddm subjects compared with 4 of 25 ( 16 % ) control subjects ( p = 0.003 ) . eight of 42 ( 19 % ) iddm subjects had moderate to severe fibrosis ( score 2 or 3 ) compared with 1 of 25 ( 4 % ) control subjects . seventeen of 44 ( 39 % ) iddm subjects had either a moderate to large cellular infiltrate or moderate to severe adrenal medullary fibrosis compared with 2 of 29 ( 7 % ) control subjects ( p = 0.003 ) . staining of the adrenal medulla with l26 revealed a large cellular infiltrate in only one subject who was uchl1 negative . adrenal medullitis was observed in 20 % of iddm subjects , suggesting that the adrenal medulla may be another immunological target in iddm . 
gastrointestinal side-effects of octreotide during long-term treatment of acromegaly . gastrointestinal side-effects of prolonged therapy ( greater than 2 yr ) with the long-acting somatostatin analog octreotide were studied in 10 acromegalic patients . after 2 yr of therapy , 6 of 10 patients had newly developed gallstones , complicated by cholangitis and jaundice in 1 . serum vitamin b-12 concentrations declined in all 10 patients [ from 380 + / - 32 to 172 + / - 21 pmol/l ( mean + / - se ) ; p = 0.023 ] and became abnormally low in 4 . gastric biopsy specimens , obtained during gastroscopy ( 9 patients ) , showed moderate to severe active gastritis , with damage to the superficial and deeper layers of the mucosa in 9 of 9 and focal atrophy in 7 of 9 patients . campylobacter pylori was found in the antral mucosa in 8 of 9 patients . although information is lacking on similar studies in untreated acromegalic patients , we suggest that patients receiving chronic octreotide therapy be closely monitored for these and possible other side-effects related to gastrointestinal actions of octreotide . 
use of immunoelectron microscopy to show ebola virus during the 1989 united states epizootic . a filovirus , serologically related to ebola virus , was detected by " post-embedment " immunoelectron microscopical examination of ma-104 cells . these had been infected by inoculation with serum samples obtained during the 1989 epizootic in cynomolgus monkeys ( macaca fascicularis ) , imported from the philippines and maintained at reston , virginia , usa , a primate holding facility . the immunoelectron microscopy method , when used in conjunction with standard transmission electron microscopy ( tem ) of infected cells , provided consistent results and was simple to perform in this epizootic . it is concluded that immunoelectron microscopy is potentially useful in the direct immunological diagnosis of ebola and related filoviral infections ( such as marburg ) in clinical samples obtained from those with acute infection . 
importance of sampling method in dna analysis of lung cancer . lung carcinomas are characterised by considerable histological variation within the tumour . the possible effects of this morphological heterogeneity on the estimation of tumour ploidy were investigated . multiple tissue blocks were systematically taken from 20 lung tumours and analysed by flow cytometry . the routine , archival paraffin wax embedded diagnostic blocks from these cases were also analysed . nineteen ( 95 % ) of the tumours were shown to contain aneuploid stemlines by systematic sampling , but if only one of these systematic tissue blocks had been taken from each case the incidence of dna aneuploidy could have been as low as 45 % . only 15 ( 75 % ) tumours were aneuploid when all the routine archival blocks were analysed , but by specifically selecting tumour areas from the archival material the accuracy of this method was increased to 90 % . it is concluded that tumour sampling methods are of primary importance in assessing the dna content of lung tumours . routine paraffin wax embedded archival tissue provides a suitable source of material for this purpose , provided that " turnover " selection is carried out . 
observations on the haemopoietic response to critical illness . peripheral blood cytopenias are common in patients receiving intensive care , particularly in those with multiple organ failure . to assess the contribution of bone marrow hypoplasia in such patients 44 bone marrow samples from 24 patients under intensive care were studied by standard morphological techniques and by the granulocyte-macrophage colony forming cell ( gm-cfc ) assay . frequently observed morphological abnormalities in the bone marrow included the following : ( i ) a reduction in overall cellularity in seven patients , with a progressive decrease in most patients studied sequentially ; ( ii ) an increase in the number of actively phagocytic macrophages ; and ( iii ) a disruption of normal bone marrow architecture with the accumulation of intercellular hyaluronic acid glycosaminoglycan . mean gm-cfc growth was significantly reduced when compared with that in a group of normal controls . in four of five patients studied sequentially gm-cfc growth became subnormal in association with a reduction in bone marrow cellularity . inhibitory serum factors were not identified . these morphological abnormalities are similar to the changes observed in gelatinous degeneration of the bone marrow . in both situations disruption of the haemopoietic microenvironment , with the accumulation of hyaluronic acid proteoglycan , may be an important factor in the inhibition of haemopoietic progenitor cell growth . the proliferation of macrophages , by the release of a variety of cytokines or reactive oxygen intermediates , may also be implicated in impaired haemopoiesis and the development of disordered erythropoiesis . 
extracorporeal photopheresis in psoriasis vulgaris : clinical and immunologic observations . four patients with chronic refractory plaque-type psoriasis without arthropathy were treated with extracorporeal photopheresis every other week for 6 to 13 months . in patients 1 and 2 , methotrexate was administered concomitantly during the initial part of the trial ; the dose was gradually tapered and the drug was discontinued by 6 months . both patients improved to 23 % and 62 % of baseline values for percentage of body surface involvement , but their disease then flared when maintenance extracorporeal photopheresis was used alone . substantial improvement again occurred when lower doses of methotrexate were administered with extracorporeal photopheresis . patients 3 and 4 were treated initially with extracorporeal photopheresis alone and both improved to 50 % and 52 % of baseline body surface involvement , respectively , after 4 months of treatment . however , their disease flared because of factors unrelated to treatment . extracorporeal photopheresis was well tolerated by all patients without evidence of overt toxicity . however , prolonged treatment with extracorporeal photopheresis/methotrexate was accompanied by a decrease in skin reactivity to recall antigens and by decreased capacity of lymphocytes to produce interleukin 2 in response to polyclonal stimuli in vitro . these findings indicate that alternate-week extracorporeal photopheresis has a definite but incomplete suppressive effect on psoriasis vulgaris that may be mediated through an effect on lymphokine production by photomodified cells and that the therapeutic effect of extracorporeal photopheresis may be enhanced by concomitant administration of low doses of methotrexate . 
ptychotropism as a cutaneous feature of the child syndrome . the hallmark of the child syndrome is a unilateral ichthyosiform nevus that displays a pronounced affinity for the body folds . for this phenomenon the term ptychotropism is proposed . the expression is composed from the greek words ptyche ( fold ) and trope ( a turning ) . it is concluded that the cutaneous lesions of the child nevus are determined by two factors , lyonization and ptychotropism . the phenomenon of ptychotropism constitutes an additional argument to distinguish the child nevus from the inflammatory linear verrucous epidermal nevus because the latter is not ptychotropic . 
problems of resistant dermatophytes . recalcitrant fungal infections are defined as infections that are difficult or impossible to eradicate despite seemingly adequate treatment with appropriate oral or parenteral antibiotics . relative or absolute microbial resistance is only one of the many causes of recalcitrance . others include failure of the patient to comply with the prescribed treatment regimen , drug degradation in the liver , drug-drug interactions , reabsorption or washout of the drug from the stratum corneum , and failure of the drug to reach the stratum corneum . excretion in the eccrine sweat is the principal pathway by which griseofulvin and ketoconazole , the two currently available oral antifungal agents , are delivered to the stratum corneum . measures that promote delivery of these drugs to this site by enhancing sweating and minimizing drug run-off and absorption onto clothing may aid in optimizing the therapeutic response to these agents . 
treatment of chronic tinea pedis ( athlete 's foot type ) with topical terbinafine . twenty-seven patients with chronic tinea pedis , athlete 's foot type , were enrolled in a randomized , double-blind trial of topical treatment with terbinafine 1 % cream versus its vehicle ( placebo ) . patients were examined weekly during 4 weeks of twice-daily treatment and at follow-up 2 weeks after the conclusion of therapy . no adverse events were reported in either treatment group . drug efficacy was evaluated in 22 patients , of whom nine ( 41 % ) were treated with terbinafine and 13 ( 59 % ) with placebo . analysis of combined mycologic and clinical results showed that terbinafine was significantly more effective than placebo at the end of therapy ( 78 % vs zero ) and at the 2-week follow-up ( 89 % vs zero ) ( p less than or equal to 0.001 at both intervals . 
treatment of chronic moccasin-type tinea pedis with terbinafine : a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial . terbinafine is an orally and topically active fungicidal drug of the allylamine series . its oral efficacy at 125 mg taken twice daily was evaluated in a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled study in moccasin-type tinea pedis . the study was conducted simultaneously in two centers and consisted of 41 evaluable cases ( 23 terbinafine , 18 placebo ) . mycologic cure and near to complete clearing of signs and symptoms were obtained in 59 % of the terbinafine-treated patients after 6 weeks of treatment and in 65 % at 2 weeks after treatment . corresponding efficacy for placebo-treated patients was zero at both evaluations . side effects in both groups were minimal . we conclude that terbinafine is well tolerated and highly effective in moccasin-type tinea pedis . 
traumatic asphyxia . traumatic asphyxia is a distinctive clinical syndrome characterized by cervicofacial cyanosis and edema , multiple petechiae , and subconjunctival hemorrhage after a severe crush injury of the thorax or of the upper part of the abdomen . a case of traumatic asphyxia is reported , and its clinical and pathophysiologic features are discussed . 
porcelain and resin veneers clinically evaluated : 2-year results . a clinical comparison of two different types of dental veneers -- baked porcelain veneer and heat-and-pressure processed urethane resin veneer -- was made after 2 years . although the esthetic appearance and gingival response were equal for both systems , the resin veneers had a greater tendency to chip and fracture . by the end of 2 years , 20 % of the resin veneers had failed , whereas all of the porcelain veneers remained . 
life-threatening hemorrhage after placement of an endosseous implant : report of case this article reports an unusual but dangerous complication of implant surgery . minimal perforations of the lingual plate and inferior border of the mandible had been considered previously to be benign occurrences . this report demonstrates the importance of managing acute airway problems resulting from perforations . 
tongue ischemia from a soft-drink can : report of case . a young girl was brought to the emergency department because her tongue became entrapped while she was drinking from an aluminum soft-drink can . a dental drill was used to remove the can . the tongue was observed for 48 hours , during which an ischemic area recovered spontaneously . 
evaluating tooth eruption on sealant efficacy . for patients aged 5 to 9 and 11 to 14 , 100 occlusal surfaces on newly erupting permanent molars were treated with a self-curing pit and fissure sealant . all teeth were categorized according to stage of eruption and sealant thickness of the coating applied . after 36 months , 75 surfaces were examined for a final evaluation ; 52 surfaces ( 70 % ) did not need retreatment . of the 23 surfaces retreated as a result of sealant loss or marginal deterioration , 18 were retreated only once in the six recall evaluations . those molars treated originally with the operculum covering the distal marginal ridge of the occlusal surface had twice the probability for retreatment as teeth not treated until the entire marginal ridge was exposed . the thickness of the sealant coating did not affect the early signs of sealant failure . 
progression of native coronary artery disease at 10 years : insights from a randomized study of medical versus surgical therapy for angina . repeat coronary angiography was performed in 42 patients 10 years after randomization to medical ( n = 21 ) or surgical ( n = 21 ) therapy for chronic angina . the native coronary arteries were classified into 15 angiographic segments and 3 arterial trunks for analysis of progression of coronary artery disease . the incidence rate of disease progression in coronary segments was 24 % and 28 % in medically and surgically treated patients , respectively ( p = ns ) . grafted segments showed a 38 % rate of disease progression , which was higher than the 18 % rate of for nongrafted segments ( p less than 0.001 ) and the overall rate of 24 % for medically treated patients ( p less than 0.01 ) . similarly , 29 ( 94 % ) of 31 grafted arteries exhibited disease progression compared with 19 ( 59 % ) of 32 nongrafted arteries ( p less than 0.01 ) and 42 ( 67 % ) of 63 arteries in medically treated patients ( p less than 0.01 ) . in grafted vessels , disease progression occurred more often in arteries proximal ( 84 % ) to the anastomosis than in arteries distal ( 16 % ) to graft insertion ( p less than 0.001 ) . progression occurred in 46 % of proximal segments compared with 23 % of distal segments ( p less than 0.02 ) . progression was seen in 23 ( 55 % ) of 43 segments with an occluded graft compared with 30 ( 31 % ) of 96 segments with a patent graft ( p less than 0.02 ) . ten years after randomization , medically and surgically treated patients showed a comparable rate of disease progression in coronary segments . however , surgical therapy appeared to significantly accelerate atherosclerotic progression in the grafted vessels , especially in the proximal portions . occluded grafts also correlated with an adverse effect on disease progression . 
results of primary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction in patients with multivessel coronary artery disease . the influence of multivessel coronary artery disease on the outcome of reperfusion therapy for myocardial infarction has not been fully characterized . direct coronary angioplasty without antecedent thrombolytic therapy was performed during evolving myocardial infarction in 285 patients with multivessel coronary artery disease at 5.2 + / - 4.2 h after the onset of chest pain . two vessel disease was present in 163 patients ( 57 % ) and three vessel disease in 122 ( 43 % ) . an anterior infarct was present in 123 patients ( 43 % ) , cardiogenic shock in 33 ( 12 % ) and age greater than or equal to 70 years in 59 ( 21 % ) . angioplasty of the infarct-related vessel was successful in 256 patients ( 90 % ) , including 92 % with two vessel and 88 % with three vessel disease ( p = ns ) . emergency bypass surgery was needed in six patients ( 2 % ) . in-hospital death occurred in 33 patients ( 12 % ) , including 13 with two vessel and 20 with three vessel disease ( p less than 0.05 ) . the mortality rate was only 4 % in the subgroup of 101 patients who met entry criteria for thrombolytic trials . the in-hospital mortality rate was 45 % in patients in shock and 7 % in patients not in shock ( p less than 0.01 ) . logistic regression analysis identified shock and age greater than or equal to 70 years as independently associated with in-hospital death . in 135 patients who underwent predischarge left ventriculography , global ejection fraction increased from 50 % to 57 % ( p less than 0.001 ) and regional wall motion in the infarct zone improved in 59 % of patients . follow-up data were available in 251 patients ( 99 % ) at a mean of 35 + / - 19 months . 
multivessel coronary angioplasty from 1980 to 1989 : procedural results and long-term outcome from june 1980 to january 1989 , 3,186 patients had coronary angioplasty of two ( 2,399 patients ) or three ( 787 patients ) of the three major epicardial coronary systems . a mean of 3.6 lesions ( range 2 to 14 ) were dilated per patient , with a 96 % success rate . acute complications were seen in 94 patients ( 2.9 % ) and included q wave infarction in 47 ( 1.4 % ) , urgent coronary artery bypass surgery in 33 ( 1 % ) and death in 31 ( 1 % ) . multivariate correlates of in-hospital death included impaired left ventricular function , age greater than or equal to 70 years and female gender . complete long-term follow-up data were available for the first 700 patients and the follow-up period averaged 54 + / - 15 months in duration . actuarial 1 and 5 year survival rates were 97 % and 88 % , respectively , and were not different in patients with two or three vessel disease . by cox regression analysis , age greater than or equal to 70 years , left ventricular ejection fraction less than or equal to 40 % and prior coronary artery bypass surgery were associated with an increased mortality rate during the follow-up period . repeat revascularization procedures were required in 322 patients ( 46 % ) . restenosis resulted in either repeat angioplasty or bypass surgery in 227 patients ( 32 % ) . repeat coronary angioplasty was performed for isolated restenosis in 126 patients ( 18 % ) , for restenosis and disease progression at new sites in 85 patients ( 12 % ) and for new disease progression alone in 54 patients ( 8 % ) . coronary bypass surgery was required in 110 patients ( 16 % ) during the follow-up period . 
comparison of ventricular arrhythmia induction with use of an indwelling electrode catheter and a newly inserted catheter . two methods of serial electrophysiologic testing are in widespread use . most commonly , the electrode catheter is removed after each study and a new catheter reinserted through the femoral vein for every subsequent test . an alternative method employs an electrode catheter that remains in place during several days of serial testing . little is known about differences between these two methods with respect to the likelihood of induction of arrhythmia or the frequency of complications . to determine whether inducibility of sustained arrhythmia is altered or if the frequency of complications is unacceptably high with use of an indwelling catheter , a prospective randomized study was conducted in 78 patients . each patient underwent baseline testing , several days of electropharmacologic testing with an indwelling catheter , a 24 h drug elimination period and placement of a new electrode catheter . ventricular stimulation studies were then performed in each patient with both the indwelling and new electrode catheters . no differences were found between the indwelling and new catheter tests with respect to induction of arrhythmia , number of extrastimuli required to induce arrhythmia , rate of arrhythmia or requirement for cardioversion . ventricular pacing thresholds were higher and effective refractory periods were slightly longer when measured with the indwelling catheter . complications related to the 156 catheter insertions included two that may have been related to the indwelling catheter ( one episode of staphylococcal sepsis and one presumed pulmonary embolism ) and four that were related to invasive procedures ( pneumothorax in all ) . there were no long-term adverse sequelae of these complications . 
supraventricular tachycardia due to wolff-parkinson-white syndrome in children : early disappearance and late recurrence the clinical course of 140 patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome who had their initial episode of supraventricular tachycardia before 18 years of age was reviewed . among those whose tachycardia began at age 0 to 2 months , it disappeared in 93 % and persisted in 7 % . in 31 % , it disappeared and reappeared at an average age of 8 years . among patients whose tachycardia was present after age 5 years , it was persistent in 78 % at a mean follow-up period of 7 years . accessory connection location was mapped by electrophysiologic study in 87 patients and estimated by electrocardiography in 53 patients . there were no differences in tachycardia onset or recurrence based on accessory connection location . congenital heart defects were present in 37 % of all patients , 23 % of whom had ebstein 's anomaly . among all patients who underwent cardiac catheterization , 63 % of those with a congenital heart defect had a rightsided accessory connection , whereas 61 % of patients with a normal heart had a left-sided connection ( p less than 0.01 ) . multiple accessory connections were found in 12 % of patients with a congenital heart defect compared with 6 % of those without such a defect . in conclusion : 1 ) supraventricular tachycardia due to wolff-parkinson-white syndrome that begins in infancy may disappear , but it frequently recurs in later childhood ; 2 ) if tachycardia is present after age 5 years , it persists in greater than 75 % of patients ; and 3 ) the location of the accessory connection does not affect the clinical course of tachycardia in children with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome . 
ventricular arrhythmias after correction of ventricular septal defects : importance of surgical approach . to compare the prevalence of conduction disturbances and ventricular arrhythmias in cases of postoperative ventricular septal defect , 100 patients ( 50 with repair by right atriotomy , group 1 ; and 50 with repair by right ventriculotomy , group 2 ) underwent complete evaluation including an electrocardiogram ( ecg ) and 24 h ambulatory ecg monitoring . the two groups were comparable except for a shorter follow-up duration ( 7 + / - 3 versus 12.4 + / - 7 years ) and a younger age at evaluation ( 12.4 + / - 5 versus 16.9 + / - 7 years ) in group 1 . complete right bundle branch block was less frequent in group 1 than in group 2 ( 20 % versus 50 % , p less than 0.05 ) but three of the four patients with complete atrioventricular ( av ) block detected on ambulatory monitoring were in group 1 . six patients had significant supraventricular arrhythmias , all well tolerated . ambulatory monitoring revealed significant ventricular arrhythmias ( modified lown grade 2 or higher ) in 39 patients , with a lower prevalence in group 1 ( 30 % versus 48 % , p = 0.05 ) . no correlation was found between prevalence of ventricular arrhythmias and right ventricular systolic pressure , cardiopulmonary bypass duration , presence of a synthetic patch , previous pulmonary artery banding , presence of complete right bundle branch block and cardiomegaly on chest x-ray film . prevalence of ventricular arrhythmias increased with follow-up duration , age at evaluation and age at surgery . these were always well tolerated and did not warrant treatment . thus , right atriotomy reduces the prevalence of right bundle branch block but does not prevent late av block . ventricular arrhythmias are frequent after surgical closure of ventricular septal defect whatever the surgical approach and their prevalence is not statistically different from that in postoperative tetralogy of fallot . 
balloon expandable stent implantation in stenotic right heart valved conduits . although valved conduits have been used successfully in severe forms of right ventricular-pulmonary artery discontinuity , progressive valved conduit stenosis is an important clinical problem . to determine the feasibility of reducing right heart valved conduit stenosis with a balloon expandable stent , a baboon model was used , in which the pulmonary artery was ligated and a right ventricular to pulmonary artery 14 mm bioprosthetic dacron valved conduit implanted . in five baboons , at an average of 40 months after valved conduit implantation , fibrointimal stenosis at the valve site resulted in narrowing and a mean transconduit pressure gradient of 49 mm hg ( range 33 to 65 ) . a tubular slotted steel stent ( 1.2 cm long ) was deployed within the valved conduit after inflation of an 8 to 15 mm diameter balloon catheter that was introduced through the femoral vein . a stent was delivered to all valved conduits ; however , in two baboons , balloon undersizing resulted in stent dislodgment . in the remaining three baboons , the transconduit gradient was reduced by 59 % ( 49 to 20 mm hg ) and right ventricular systolic pressure decreased acutely by 35 % ( 77 to 50 mm hg ) . it is concluded that stent deployment is feasible in right ventricular to pulmonary artery stenotic valved conduits and may result in significant hemodynamic improvement . however , successful stent delivery is critically dependent on the proper selection of stent length and balloon diameter . 
detection of restenosis after successful coronary angioplasty : improved clinical decision making with use of a logistic model combining procedural and follow-up variables . a prospective study of 111 patients who underwent repeat coronary angiography and exercise thallium-201 scintigraphy 6 + / - 2 months after complete revascularization by percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty was performed to assess whether clinical , procedure-related and postangioplasty exercise variables yield independent information for the prediction of angiographic restenosis after angioplasty . complete revascularization was defined as successful angioplasty of one or more vessels that resulted in no residual coronary lesion with greater than 50 % diameter stenosis . restenosis was defined as a residual stenosis at the time of repeat angiography of greater than 50 % of luminal diameter . restenosis occurred in 40 % of the patients . the 111 patients were randomly subdivided into a learning group ( n = 84 ) and a testing group ( n = 27 ) . a logistic discriminant analysis was performed in the learning group and the logistic model was used to estimate a logistic probability of restenosis . this probability of restenosis was validated in the testing group . in the learning group of 84 patients univariate analysis of 39 factors revealed 8 factors related to restenosis : recurrence of angina ( p less than 0.0001 ) , postangioplasty abnormal finding on exercise thallium-201 scintigram ( p less than 0.0001 ) , exercise thallium-201 scintigram score ( p less than 0.0001 ) , difference between exercise and rest st segment depression ( p less than 0.001 ) , postangioplasty exercise st segment depression ( p less than 0.001 ) , absolute postangioplasty stenosis diameter ( p less than 0.003 ) , postangioplasty exercise work load ( p less than 0.03 ) and postangioplasty exercise heart rate ( p less than 0.05 ) . 
results of coronary surgery after failed elective coronary angioplasty in patients with prior coronary surgery the results of coronary artery bypass surgery after failed elective coronary angioplasty in patients who have undergone prior coronary surgery are unknown . coronary angioplasty may be performed to relieve angina after surgery either to the native coronary vessels or to grafts . failure of attempted coronary angioplasty may mandate repeat coronary surgery , often in the setting of acute ischemia . from 1980 to 1989 , 1,263 patients with prior coronary bypass surgery underwent angioplasty ; of these patients , 46 ( 3.6 % ) underwent reoperation for failed angioplasty during the same hospital stay . of the 46 patients who underwent reoperation , 33 had and 13 did not have acute ischemia . in the group with ischemia , 3 patients ( 9.1 % ) died and 14 ( 42.4 % ) died or had a q wave myocardial infarction in the hospital compared with no deaths ( p = ns ) and no deaths or q wave myocardial infarction ( p = 0.005 ) in the group without ischemia . at 3 years , the actuarial survival rate was 88 + / - 6 % in the group with ischemia , whereas there were no deaths in the group without ischemia ( p = ns ) , and freedom from death or myocardial infarction was 51 + / - 10 % in the group with ischemia , versus no events in the group without ischemia ( p = 0.006 ) . in most patients with prior coronary bypass surgery , coronary angioplasty was performed without the need for repeat coronary bypass surgery . should coronary angioplasty fail , reoperation in patients without acute ischemia can be performed with overall patient survival comparable to that of elective reoperative coronary bypass without coronary angioplasty . 
serial left ventricular performance evaluated by cardiac catheterization before , immediately after and at 6 months after balloon aortic valvuloplasty . although impaired ventricular function has been shown to improve after aortic valve replacement , there are few data on hemodynamic changes after balloon aortic valvuloplasty based on follow-up catheterization . of 71 patients surviving 6 months after balloon aortic valvuloplasty , 41 agreed to late recatheterization . all patients had pre - and postvalvuloplasty and 6 month catheterization data measured with high fidelity micromanometer pressure recordings and simultaneous digital subtraction left ventriculography . the hemodynamic result immediately after valvuloplasty included a reduction in the aortic valve gradient and a moderate increase in aortic valve area ( 0.51 + / - 0.14 to 0.81 + / - 0.19 cm2 , p less than 0.0001 ) . ejection fraction increased slightly ( 52 + / - 18 to 55 + / - 17 % , p less than 0.0001 ) despite a decrease in peak positive rate of rise of left ventricular pressure ( dp/dt 1,650 + / - 460 to 1,500 + / - 490 mm hg/s , p less than 0.05 ) . there was also a decrease in left ventricular afterload and a small decrease in preload . at 6 month recatheterization , the mean aortic valve gradient and area were similar to baseline values , with 31 ( 76 % ) of 41 patients demonstrating valvular restenosis . at 6 months many left ventricular hemodynamic variables , including peak positive dp/dt and stroke work , also resembled prevalvuloplasty values . however , left ventricular end-diastolic volume was reduced ( 111 + / - 40 ml at 6 months versus 136 + / - 52 ml before valvuloplasty , p less than 0.01 ) . the mean left ventricular ejection fraction was unchanged from prevalvuloplasty values in the study group of 41 patients , but was significantly improved in 9 of 15 patients with a baseline ejection fraction less than 50 % . 
abnormal cardiac sensitivity in patients with chest pain and normal coronary arteries . the causes of chest pain in patients found to have angiographically normal coronary arteries during cardiac catheterization remain controversial . cardiac sensitivity to catheter manipulation , pacing at various stimulus intensities and intracoronary injection of contrast medium was examined in several groups of patients who underwent cardiac catheterization . right heart ( especially right ventricular ) catheter manipulation and pacing and intracoronary contrast medium provoked chest pain typical of that previously experienced in 29 ( 81 % ) of 36 patients with chest pain and angiographically normal coronary arteries and 15 ( 46 % ) of 33 symptomatic patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . in contrast , only 2 ( 6 % ) of 33 symptomatic patients with coronary artery disease experienced their typical chest pain with these sensitivity tests ( p less than 0.001 ) . none of 10 patients with valvular heart disease but without a chest pain syndrome experienced any sensation with these tests . cutaneous pain threshold testing demonstrated that patients with chest pain and normal coronary arteries had a higher pain threshold to thermal stimulation compared with patients who had coronary artery disease or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . no relation existed between cardiac sensitivity and cutaneous sensitivity testing . thus , patients who have chest pain despite angiographically normal coronary arteries may have abnormal cardiac sensitivity to a variety of stimuli . this increased sensitivity may be of causal importance to their chest pain syndrome or may contribute to their perception of ischemia-induced pain . the same phenomenon was also commonly seen in symptomatic patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . whether this phenomenon represents abnormal activation of pain receptors within the heart or abnormal processing of visceral afferent neural impulses in the peripheral or central nervous system is unknown . 
feasibility and cost savings of outpatient electrophysiologic testing . the feasibility of outpatient electrophysiologic testing was examined by reviewing 100 consecutive outpatient tests performed in 95 patients . seventy-one of the patients ( 75 % ) had no underlying heart disease . the electrophysiologic tests were performed to evaluate supraventricular tachycardias ( n = 47 ) , nonsustained ventricular tachycardia ( n = 20 ) , unexplained syncope ( n = 21 ) , palpitation ( n = 9 ) or intermittent heart block ( n = 2 ) . a mean of 2.8 + / - 0.5 6f electrode catheters were inserted through a femoral vein . an electrode catheter was inserted into a subclavian or internal jugular vein in 28 tests and a 5f cannula was inserted into a femoral artery to monitor the blood pressure in 20 tests . the results of 61 tests ( 61 % ) were abnormal . patients were monitored for a mean of 3.8 + / - 1.2 h after the procedure and then discharged . no complications occurred . for cost analysis a subgroup of 60 of these patients was matched for age , gender , heart disease and indication for electrophysiologic testing with a group of 60 patients who underwent electrophysiologic testing as inpatients . physicians ' fees for the two groups were similar ; however , the mean hospital charge was $ 5,845 + / - 3,763 for the inpatient group compared with only $ 2,120 + / - 1,244 for the outpatient group ( p less than 0.001 ) . thus , outpatient electrophysiologic testing is feasible and safe and results in substantial cost savings in patients without life-threatening arrhythmias . 
coronary morphology after percutaneous directional coronary atherectomy in humans : autopsy analysis of three patients . the morphologic basis of angiographically successful percutaneous directional atherectomy and subsequent restenosis in human coronary arteries is unknown . the clinical and pathologic features of three patients who died after coronary atherectomy are described . tissue fragments obtained with atherectomy demonstrated atheromatous and fibroproliferative intima , media and adventitia . at autopsy , treated vascular segments ( from the left anterior descending artery in two patients and a vein graft in one patient ) demonstrated discrete defects in the vascular wall . defects extending into atheroma , media or adventitia corresponded with the presence of these tissues in the atherectomy specimens . tissues were otherwise not disrupted in the manner associated with balloon angioplasty . acute mural thrombus deposition was evident in the resection zone in one patient . late findings included fibroproliferative intimal tissue extending from the resected areas into the vascular lumen . in one patient intimal hyperplasia was sufficient to narrow the vascular lumen by 82 % and was implicated in subsequent myocardial ischemia and infarction . the study indicates that 1 ) the vascular injury associated with atherectomy is distinct from that associated with balloon angioplasty , 2 ) acute mural thrombus deposition may occur even with resection limited to the intima , and 3 ) intimal hyperplasia may develop in regions treated with atherectomy and may be associated with late myocardial ischemia and infarction . 
is banding of the pulmonary trunk obsolete for infants with tricuspid atresia and double inlet ventricle with a discordant ventriculoarterial connection ? role of aortic arch obstruction and subaortic stenosis banding the pulmonary trunk may exacerbate or promote the development of subaortic stenosis in patients with double inlet ventricle or tricuspid atresia with a dominant left ventricle and discordant ventriculoarterial connection and , therefore , may be an inappropriate palliative procedure for such patients . to examine this possibility , 102 consecutive infants were studied who presented with this anatomy between 1972 and 1987 . obstruction of the aortic arch was present in 52 patients . in 28 patients ( 17 with aortic arch obstruction ) , subaortic stenosis was already apparent at presentation . of the remaining 74 patients , 19 received no palliative surgery and 55 underwent banding of the pulmonary trunk either with ( n = 22 ) or without ( n = 33 ) aortic arch repair . outcome was significantly worse in patients with associated aortic arch obstruction . all such patients either died or developed subaortic stenosis by 3 years of age ( survival free of subaortic stenosis 0 of 22 versus 22 of 33 for patients with isolated banding of the pulmonary trunk , p less than 0.001 ) . after isolated banding , there was a lower ratio of the ventricular septal defect to ascending aorta diameters at presentation in the patients who developed subaortic stenosis than in the patients who did not ( 0.60 + / - 0.08 versus 1.03 + / - 0.15 , p less than 0.001 ) . of the latter , 18 ( 95 % ) of 19 patients fulfilled criteria for a fontan procedure at recatheterization . thus , the presence of aortic arch obstruction is associated with rapid development of subaortic stenosis after banding of the pulmonary trunk . alternative initial surgery , even though high risk , may be indicated . in the absence of such obstruction , banding the pulmonary trunk can be performed at reasonable risk and , provided that the ventricular septal defect is of adequate size , satisfactorily prepares most patients for a later fontan procedure . 
long-term follow-up of patients after transcatheter direct current ablation of the atrioventricular junction . the long-term follow-up study ( 41 + / - 23 months ) of 47 patients undergoing direct current ablation because of drug-resistant supraventricular arrhythmias is reported . significant early complications occurred in four patients and included hypotension , pericarditis , nonsustained polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and one sudden death . in 42 patients ( 86 % ) , complete atrioventricular ( av ) block was initially achieved . during the follow-up period , av conduction resumed in 2 of these 42 patients . of the seven patients in whom ablation was unsuccessful , two developed late complete av block and three had symptomatic improvement . an improved activity level was reported among 83 % of the patients with successful ablation . health care utilization manifest as the number of hospital admissions per year before and after ablation decreased significantly after ablation ( 2.4 + / - 2.0 versus 0.3 + / - 0.5 , p less than 0.001 ) . echocardiographic evaluation in five patients with a depressed left ventricular ejection fraction ( 27 + / - 7 % ) before ablation showed a significant increase ( 45 + / - 14 % , p less than 0.05 ) after an average follow-up period of 31 months . new onset of congestive heart failure occurred after ablation in four patients , of whom two had no structural heart disease . the total mortality rate , including the one patient with sudden death , was 17 % and was significantly higher among patients with underlying structural heart disease . transcatheter direct current ablation is an effective treatment in patients with drug-resistant supraventricular tachycardia , providing a beneficial long-term outcome including an improved quality of life and a decrease in health care utilization . 
acute hemorrhagic edema of infancy ( ahei ) -- a variant of henoch-schonlein purpura or a distinct clinical entity ? acute hemorrhagic edema of infancy ( ahei ) is an acute cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis ( lcv ) of infants . the clinical picture has a violent onset with a short benign course followed by spontaneous complete recovery . we report 12 infants with ahei who were studied clinically , serologically , and immunohistologically . edema and palpable purpuric skin lesions were present in all infants who were in good general condition . serologic studies were unremarkable . light microscopic examination of the skin biopsy specimens revealed lcv as in henoch-schonlein purpura ( hsp ) . direct immunofluorescent study revealed depositions of various immunoreactants , including fibrinogen , c3 , igg , igm , iga , and ige ( 100 % , 100 % , 22 % , 78 % , 33 % , and 33 % , respectively ) in the wall and around the small vessels . similar deposition of clq was also present in three infants in whom clq could be studied ( 100 % ) . the clinical similarities and differences between ahei and hsp have been discussed in the literature . ahei is observed before 2 years of age and is confined to the skin . the skin lesions of hsp are more polymorphic . although histopathologic findings are similar , the immunohistologic pattern found in our series of ahei is rather different from the pattern of hsp . taking all of these findings into account , we suggest that ahei should be considered as a separate , clinicopathologic entity or a possible variant of hsp . the more descriptive term " acute benign cutaneous lcv of infancy " is offered for this clinicopathologic entity . 
role of nasal allergy in chronic maxillary sinusitis -- diagnostic value of nasal challenge with allergen . the role of nasal allergy in chronic maxillary sinusitis without an air-fluid level was studied in 37 patients . seventy-three nasal provocation tests with various inhalant allergens were performed in 37 patients by means of rhinomanometry , and maxillary sinus radiographs were performed before and repeatedly after the allergen challenge . forty-one positive nasal responses ( nrs ) occurred in 29 patients ; 13 were immediate only , 18 were late only , and 10 nrs were dual responses . of these responses , 32 demonstrated radiographic changes , primarily an increase in mucosal edema and/or opacification . these responses were accompanied by increased pressure in the maxillary sinuses , acute headache , and sometimes otalgia . eight patients did not develop any nrs ; however , increased thickening of the mucosal membrane of the maxillary sinuses , accompanied by subjective symptoms , was recorded in three of these nonresponders . these results demonstrate the role of nasal allergy in some patients with chronic maxillary sinusitis , which may affect the diagnostic and therapeutic approaches to this disorder . 
chronic urticaria exacerbated by the antioxidant food preservatives , butylated hydroxyanisole ( bha ) and butylated hydroxytoluene ( bht ) . two patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria in whom remissions were achieved with dye - and preservative-elimination diet had exacerbations of their urticaria when they were challenged under double-blind , placebo-controlled conditions with butylated hydroxyanisole and butylated hydroxytoluene . after elimination of butylated hydroxyanisole and butylated hydroxytoluene from their diets , there was marked abatement of the frequency , severity , and duration of their urticaria . these antioxidants appear capable of aggravating symptoms in certain patients with chronic urticaria . 
different prevalence and degree of nonspecific bronchial hyperreactivity between seasonal and perennial rhinitis . from the patients observed at our respiratory allergology service , we selected patients with rhinitis only , without any past or present respiratory symptoms , for our study . all these patients had normal pulmonary function , were administered carbachol or methacholine bronchial challenges , and had one or more skin reactions to perennial or seasonal allergens . patients were allocated to three groups : group a , patients with seasonal rhinitis who were administered nonspecific challenges out of season ; group b , patients with seasonal rhinitis tested during the season ; and group c , patients with perennial rhinitis . the three groups were divided into subgroups according to the duration in years of rhinitis and to the degree of nonspecific bronchial responsiveness . the distribution into four groups of reactivity , arbitrarily defined as normal and mildly , moderately , and severely increased reactivity , was as follows : group a , 124 , 21 , 30 , 22 ; group b , 75 , 15 , 7 , and 21 : and group c , 69 , 17 , 39 , and 72 , respectively . the patients of group c ( perennial rhinitis ) demonstrated a distribution significantly ( p less than 0.001 ) different from subjects with seasonal rhinitis , both group a and group b. our results are consistent with the hypothesis that perennial rhinitis is much more important than seasonal rhinitis as a risk factor for developing nonspecific bronchial hyperresponsiveness . 
the role of antihistamines in the treatment of chronic urticaria . for many years , h1 antihistamines have been the primary management option for urticaria . however , undesirable side effects , particularly daytime sedation , have limited the usefulness of these classic antihistamines . a new class of peripherally acting , nonsedating antihistamines ( e.g. , terfenadine , astemizole , loratadine , and cetirizine ) has proved to have clinical efficacy comparable with the classic antihistamines . in comparative trials between the various nonsedating agents , no significant difference in efficacy has been noted . all these agents have good safety profiles , although astemizole use has been correlated with increased appetite and weight gain in some patients , and cetirizine has caused slightly increased sedative effects compared with placebo . although h1/h2 antihistamine combinations have been proposed as possible treatments for urticaria , studies have produced mixed results . 
skin responses to intradermal histamine and leukotrienes c4 , d4 , and e4 in patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria and in normal subjects . mast cell inflammatory mediators , such as histamine , and newly formed compounds , such as the leukotrienes , cause wheal and flare when they are injected intradermally into normal subjects and may therefore play a role in the formation of urticaria . the effects of intradermal injections ( 50 microliters ) of six different concentrations of histamine ( range , 3.3 x 10 ( -4 ) to 3.3 x 10 ( -9 ) mol/l ) and the leukotrienes c4 , d4 , and e4 ( range , 2 x 10 ( -4 ) to 2 x 10 ( -9 ) mol/l ) have been compared in 10 normal subjects and in 10 patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria . wheal-and-flare sizes were measured at timed intervals up to 4 hours , and area under the curve for each response over time was calculated . there were no significant differences in leukotriene-induced responses between groups . maximum sizes of histamine-induced wheal and flare were similar in each group of subjects . there were , however , significant increases in mean areas under the response curve of histamine wheal and flare in the patients with urticaria ( wheal , p less than 0.001 ; flare , p less than 0.001 ; analysis of variance ) . these findings demonstrate a prolongation of skin responses to histamine in patients with urticaria and suggest an impaired clearance of histamine ( or other vasoactive agents released by histamine ) from the skin of these patients . 
an interdisciplinary nutrition assessment and intervention protocol for children with disabilities . because of the multifactorial nature of the nutrition problems associated with developmental disabilities , a well-organized , interdisciplinary effort is necessary to deal with such problems . a team composed of professional and support staff , the client , and the family needs to be involved in an integrated approach to service . the team members share their knowledge and expertise in developing an individual program plan to meet identified needs . this article describes the development and implementation of a prototype for interdisciplinary nutritional evaluation and intervention in an outpatient setting . in 1987 , a regional nutrition and feeding diagnosis and evaluation clinic was established through a contractual agreement between the university of georgia university affiliated program and st. mary 's hospital in athens , ga . the purposes of the clinic are twofold : to offer direct services to developmentally disabled infants and children who require outpatient services and to provide a unique community-based interdisciplinary training experience for graduate students in nutrition and other health disciplines . the interdisciplinary treatment protocol is based on current knowledge in the treatment of developmental disabilities . 
the senior care study . the optimal use of medications in acutely ill older patients . geriatric assessment units have improved pharmacotherapy for their patients by decreasing the number of medications prescribed . the senior care study , a randomized controlled trial , compared a multidisciplinary-team approach to patient care to the standard medical practice of the institution . as a part of the trial , the effectiveness of an interdisciplinary team intervention in improving the use of medications was studied . study goals were to decrease medications used , decrease unnecessary medications , and improve medication choices in our acutely ill inpatient population . a pharmacist interviewed all experimental patients and patient records , and presented medication concerns and recommendations at a team conference . medications were counted on admission and on the third day , sixth week , and third month after randomization . medications were paired with patient problems . medication : problem pairs were judged as inappropriate choices if there were potential side effects that would affect patient function , and if better alternatives were available . the 215 control and 221 experimental patients in the study were similar in age , sex , place of origin , and number of medications on admission . experimental patients took fewer medications than controls on the third day ( 5.3 versus 5.9 , p less than .05 ) . experimental patients received fewer multiple unpaired medications ( 11 % versus 19 % , p less than .025 ) and fewer inappropriate medication choices ( 20 % versus 37 % , p less than .005 ) . the results suggest that the team intervention was effective in improving pharmacotherapy in the acute-care setting . 
reference values for the mini-mental state examination ( mmse ) in octo - and nonagenarians the mini-mental state examination ( mmse ) was used in a population survey of all inhabitants of leiden , the netherlands , over 85 years ( n = 1258 ) . in this paper we report on 532 subjects without neurological or psychiatric disease . results show that the median score and lowest quartile cut-off score remain high until the tenth decade ( median score = 28 , lowest quartile cut-off score = 26 ) . thus age , in itself , is not a major limitation in using the mmse . in this study a comparatively low level of education ( the majority had 6 to 7 years of education ) did not affect the results on the mmse in a negative way , nor did we find an association with the use of psychoactive drugs . 
characteristics of an elderly driving population referred to a geriatric assessment center . a retrospective , case-control study was performed to determine the characteristics of elderly drivers referred to an outpatient geriatric assessment center . it was hypothesized that the driving population was operating at a higher cognitive and functional level than nondrivers . one hundred eighty-two subjects meeting the entry criteria were studied . twenty-three percent of the subjects were driving at the time of their assessment . compared to nondrivers , drivers were younger ( p = .0001 ) , were more likely to be male ( p = .003 ) , scored higher on a mental status examination ( p = .0001 ) , and were more independent in physical and instrumental activities of daily living ( p less than .0001 ) . despite these findings , the mean folstein mini-mental score for drivers ( 23.7 ) was below normal ; 40 % of drivers were diagnosed as having alzheimer 's dementia at the time of their evaluation , and over 26 % of the drivers needed help with either dressing or bathing . the frequency of impaired elderly drivers in this referral setting was high . the authors conclude that conditions that affect the driving task are common in geriatric assessment centers . prospective studies of elderly drivers are needed to answer the difficult question of who among the elderly should drive . 
can the blood urea nitrogen/creatinine ratio distinguish upper from lower gastrointestinal bleeding ? we wanted to know if the blood urea nitrogen to creatinine ( bun/cr ) ratio could help distinguish upper from lower gastrointestinal bleeding . we analyzed retrospectively patients admitted to our hospital for gastrointestinal bleeding over the past 5 years . a total of 126 patients represented 74 upper bleeds and 52 lower bleeds . the mean bun/cr ratio was significantly higher in upper than lower bleeders , 34.8 and 17.8 respectively ( p less than 0.001 ) . no lower bleeder had a ratio of greater than or equal to 36 , whereas 38 % of upper bleeders had a ratio of greater than or equal to 36 . the bun/cr ratio may be an easy , cheap method of distinguishing upper from lower gastrointestinal bleeding in some cases . a bun/cr ratio of greater than or equal to 36 suggests upper gastrointestinal bleeding , whereas a ratio of less than 36 is not helpful in locating the source of bleeding . 
spontaneous reactivation in chronic hepatitis b : patterns and natural history . we identified spontaneous reactivation of hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) retrospectively by utilizing serum alanine aminotransferase and hbv dna in 19 men ( 79 % homosexual ) , with an estimated annual incidence of 7.3 % . in 11 patients , spontaneous reactivation occurred as a single episode and in eight patients , reactivation was recurrent , with two to five episodes each . the mean serum alanine aminotransferase level was elevated over 10-fold at the peak of reactivation . serum anti-hbc igm was detected during 73 % of the reactivation episodes . actuarial analysis revealed that reactivation was long lasting with 45 % and nearly 20 % of episodes continued after 6 and 24 months , respectively . the course of 24 chronic hbv carriers with a negative serum hbv dna test and normal alanine aminotransferase levels at initial appearance was unremarkable . we could not identify clinical features predictive of reactivation or its resolution . severe reactivation hepatitis occurred in three patients ( 10 % ) , with two deaths ( 6 % ) . none of the patients lost hbsag . spontaneous reactivation in chronic hepatitis b can appear variably , persist long term , recur , and be fatal . therefore , accurate classification of chronic hbv infection requires prolonged observation , and spontaneous reactivation should be considered a variable in therapeutic trials for chronic hepatitis b. 
synergistic effect of murine cytomegalovirus on the induction of acute graft-vs-host disease involving mhc class i differences only . analysis of in vitro t cell function . the development of acute graft-vs-host disease ( gvhd ) is a common outcome after the injection of fully mhc disparate parental t cells into unirradiated f1 mice . murine cytomegalovirus ( mcmv ) infection has been previously shown to augment the development of acute gvhd in the parent-into-f1 ( p ---- f1 ) model , such that 10-fold fewer parental cells are required . in the present study , we have investigated the effect of mcmv infection on the induction of non-lethal gvhd that occurs in p ---- f1 combinations involving mhc class i only or class ii only differences . using p ---- f1 combinations involving either an h-2k only difference or an h-2d only difference , mcmv infection of f1 mice 3 days before the injection of parental spleen cells led to a profound t cell immunodeficiency that strongly resembled that observed in acute gvhd . further studies examining the h-2k disparate p ---- f1 combination , c57bl/6 ---- ( c57bl/6xb6 . c-h-2bm1 ) f1 and combined mcmv infection showed that the immunodeficiency is characterized by a profound loss of in vitro th cell production of il-2 and an intrinsic defect in t effector function as shown by an inability of ril-2 to restore defective ctl responses . additional experiments in these mice revealed the presence of suppressor cells as well as significant parent-anti-f1 ctl activity possibly accounting for the suppressor effect . this pattern of immunodeficiency was not seen after the administration of either mcmv or mhc class i disparate parental cells alone . mcmv infection did not detectably alter the immunodeficiency observed in a p ---- f1 combination involving a mhc class ii difference only . these results indicate that mcmv infection can alter the pattern of gvhd in the setting of an mhc class i disparity , but not in the setting of class ii disparity , such that it resembles acute gvhd . these results may have relevance to the human transplant setting where intercurrent cmv infection has been associated with an adverse clinical outcome . 
isolation of a novel tumor protein that induces resistance to natural killer cell lysis . the human metastatic tumor cell line cap-2 , produces a soluble factor that induces resistance to nk lysis of k-562 susceptible leukemia cell line , and does not inhibit the cytotoxic capacity of effector cells . the use of sequential hplc , hydrophobic interaction chromatography , and reverse phase chromatography , coupled with cytotoxic assays , resulted in the isolation and separation to homogeneity of a novel protein responsible for this biologic activity . size estimation studies based on tsk hplc columns showed that this protein has a mass of 8 to 12 kda . the amino acid composition analysis of the cap-2 protein calculated from hplc chromatograms shows that this protein contains around 108 amino acids . subsequent gas phase sequence analysis , however , was hampered because the n terminus of this protein was blocked and therefore unsuitable for sequencing by edman degradation . the functional studies showed that the nk lysis-resistance activity of the cap-2 protein is mediated by interaction with and nonspecific binding to nk target cells . the lymphokine-activated killer and macrophage-mediated cytotoxicity and mitogen-induced proliferation is not affected . unexpectedly , the cap-2 protein appears to be mitogenic to its own cell line . thus , the induction of nk lysis-resistance and the mitogenic activity showed by cap-2 protein could contribute to the tumor growth and metastatic establishment . 
susceptibility to effects of uvb radiation on induction of contact hypersensitivity as a risk factor for skin cancer in humans . normal , healthy human volunteers and patients with proved history of non-melanoma skin cancer have been tested for their capacity to develop contact hypersensitivity to dinitrochlorobenzene ( dncb ) following exposure of buttock skin to acute , low-dose ultraviolet b ( uvb ) radiation . using a radiation protocol that achieves virtually complete depletion of normal-appearing langerhans cells from irradiated skin , it was learned that approximately 60 % of healthy volunteers developed vigorous contact hypersensitivity ( ch ) when 2000 micrograms dncb was painted on the irradiated site . these individuals were designated uvb-resistant , and were distinguished from other individuals , designated uvb-susceptible , who failed to develop contact hypersensitivity following an identical treatment protocol . it was then discovered that virtually all ( 92 % ) skin cancer patients exposed to uvb and dncb failed to develop ch , i.e. , were uvb-susceptible . in subsequent experiments , epicutaneous application of 2000 micrograms dncb to unirradiated skin of uvb-susceptible individuals revealed a further distinction between normal persons and skin cancer patients . approximately 45 % of the latter ( and none of the former ) remained unresponsive ( failed to develop contact hypersensitivity following this second attempt at sensitization ) , implying that they had been rendered immunologically tolerant . these tolerant individuals responded normally to the unrelated hapten , diphencyprone . we conclude that human beings resemble inbred strains of laboratory mice in that some individuals are uvb-susceptible , whereas others are uvb-resistant . because the incidence of uvb-susceptibility was significantly higher in skin cancer patients , and as specific unresponsiveness could be demonstrated only in these patients , we propose that uvb-susceptibility , as we define it in this hapten system , may be a risk factor for the development of skin cancer . 
properties of strains of escherichia coli o26 : h11 in relation to their enteropathogenic or enterohemorrhagic classification . thirty-seven strains of escherichia coli o26 : h11 from infants and calves with diarrhea were examined for properties associated with enteropathogenic ( epec ) or enterohemorrhagic e. coli ( ehec ) . strains were heterogeneous with respect to vero cytotoxin ( vt ) production and hybridization with the ehec plasmid-specific ( cvd419 ) probe ; 26 strains produced vt1 ; 1 produced vt2 . twenty-four of 27 vt + strains and 5 of 10 vt - strains hybridized with the cvd419 probe and produced enterohemolysin ; these properties are characteristic of ehec . the strains did not hybridize with the epec adherence factor probe , a property characteristic of some epec . nevertheless , 36 strains adhered to hep-2 cells in a localized manner and were positive by the fluorescence actin staining ( fas ) test that is considered to correlate with the ability to cause attaching and effacing lesions in vivo . epec and ehec cause these lesions . although the fas test appeared to be the most general pathogenicity test for the o26 : h11 strains , it could not be used to assign strains specifically to epec or ehec groups . 
pneumococcal anticapsular antibodies in patients with chronic cardiovascular and obstructive lung disease in the netherlands . differences in pneumococcal anticapsular antibody concentrations were assessed among patients with various chronic disorders and among young ( 25-35 years of age ) and older adults ( 55-65 years ) . antibody concentrations were determined by elisa , using the whole 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine as antigen . no differences in mean or distribution of serum antibody concentrations were found among young adults ( either healthy or asthmatic ) or among older adults ( healthy or with chronic obstructive pulmonary or chronic cardiovascular disease ) . each group included individuals with low antibody levels . therefore , the enhanced susceptibility to pneumococcal infections reported for some groups at risk , that is , elderly individuals and patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary or chronic cardiovascular disease , can not be attributed solely to low anticapsular antibody concentrations . 
treatment of condyloma acuminatum with three different interferon-alpha preparations administered parenterally : a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial . one hundred seventy-eight patients were enrolled in a placebo-controlled trial to evaluate three interferon-alpha preparations administered parenterally for the treatment of condyloma acuminatum . when all interferon groups were combined and compared with placebo , interferon recipients had greater rates of complete , 75 % , 50 % , and 25 % lesion resolution than did placebo recipients ( p = .21 , p = .14 , p = .02 , and p = .02 , respectively ) . rates of lesion resolution were higher among women than among men , and women were more likely than men to respond to interferon . virologic measurements in paired lesion biopsies did not correlate with interferon treatment or disease outcome . although interferon toxicity was observed frequently , no participant withdrew from the study because of side effects , and dosage alterations were not required . parenterally administered interferon-alpha is more effective than placebo in treating condyloma acuminatum , although rates of complete response are low . different regimens , including combination therapy , should be evaluated for treatment of this common sexually transmitted disease . 
adverse effects of aspirin , acetaminophen , and ibuprofen on immune function , viral shedding , and clinical status in rhinovirus-infected volunteers . a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial was conducted to study the effects of over-the-counter analgesic/antipyretic medications on virus shedding , immune response , and clinical status in the common cold . sixty healthy volunteers were challenged intranasally with rhinovirus type 2 and randomized to one of four treatment arms : aspirin , acetaminophen , ibuprofen , or placebo . fifty-six volunteers were successfully infected and shed virus on at least 4 days after challenge . virus shedding , antibody levels , clinical symptoms and signs , and blood leukocyte levels were carefully monitored . use of aspirin and acetaminophen was associated with suppression of serum neutralizing antibody response ( p less than .05 vs. placebo ) and increased nasal symptoms and signs ( p less than .05 vs. placebo ) . a concomitant rise in circulating monocytes suggested that the suppression of antibody response may be mediated through drug effects on monocytes and/or mononuclear phagocytes . there were no significant differences in viral shedding among the four groups , but a trend toward longer duration of virus shedding was observed in the aspirin and acetaminophen groups . 
partial characterization of chlamydia trachomatis isolates resistant to multiple antibiotics . in vitro susceptibility testing was done on urogenital isolates of chlamydia trachomatis from five patients , four of whom were suspected treatment failures . at least one isolate from each patient was resistant to tetracycline at concentrations greater than or equal to micrograms/ml , although less than 1 % of a population of organisms showed high-level resistance . fully resistant populations selected by passage through 8 micrograms/ml tetracycline either died or lost their resistance on further passage in antibiotic-free medium . relatively large inocula were required to demonstrate resistance , and morphology of inclusions was altered at high tetracycline concentrations . the observed resistance may be a new characteristic of the organism or merely newly recognized . isolates resistant to tetracycline were resistant to doxycycline , erythromycin , sulfamethoxazole , and clindamycin but sensitive to rifampin , ciprofloxacin , and ofloxacin . thus , resistance to tetracycline , erythromycin , and clindamycin occurs in c. trachomatis and may be a factor in some treatment failures . 
comparison of the goode t-tube with the armstrong tube in children with chronic otitis media with effusion . treatment of otitis media with effusion is focused on reaeration of the middle ear cavity . in achieving long-term aeration , the insertion of ventilation tubes that have a long duration of stay can be beneficial . the results are presented of a trial in which the goode t-tube was compared with the armstrong tube . fifteen children were treated between 1981 and 1986 with a t-tube in one ear and a conventional tube in the other . the results are different with regard to duration of stay in the tympanic membrane . re-insertions were necessary in 47 per cent in the armstrong group and in 20 per cent in the t-tube group . otorrhoea occurred in 20 per cent of the armstrong and 13 per cent of the t-tube intubated ears . a persistent perforation was present in 6 per cent of the ears in both groups . it is concluded that the goode t-tube is indicated primarily in cases when long-term ventilation is needed . 
delayed facial palsy following uncomplicated stapedectomy . we report six cases of partial lower motor neurone facial palsy occurring between four and ten days after uncomplicated stapedectomy . the aetiology is unclear but recovery was rapid and complete in all patients . 
long-term results of revision endolymphatic sac surgery . the results of revision endolymphatic sac surgery on 30 patients with unilateral meniere 's disease are presented . good control is achieved in 73.3 per cent of cases at six months , falling to 56.7 per cent at one year and only 33.3 per cent by four years . the long-term results are disappointing but are more favourable if the initial surgery was successful , if the hearing remains fluctuant and improves on glycerol dehydration prior to the revision procedure and also if the sac is intubated . the current place of endolymphatic sac surgery is discussed and revision surgery only recommended for carefully selected cases . 
smoking cessation in chronic reinke 's oedema . in evaluating the long term results of surgical treatment of reinke 's oedema , there has been found to be a high incidence of recurrence . the recurrence rate is significantly lower amongst those patients who gave up smoking after treatment . a group of patients with chronic reinke 's oedema were followed for six months . maximum efforts were made to help the patients to stop smoking . twenty-nine patients entered the study , but only eight of them ( 28 per cent ) refrained from smoking ; all were women ( 39-70 years ) and all experienced reduced discomfort , although none of the voices were restored to normal . diffuse laryngitis disappeared completely , but the oedema did not disappear entirely in any patient . before treatment of chronic reinke 's oedema patients must be well advised and informed , and if surgery is decided upon , they must be urged most strongly to stop smoking , if they wish to enhance the possibility of satisfactory long-term results . 
endolymphatic hydrops precipitated by haemodialysis . we report a case of endolymphatic hydrops preceded by haemodialysis in the contralateral ear of a patient with known meniere 's disease , and discuss the possible mechanism . it is suggested that the sudden decrease of plasma osmolality during haemodialysis acts as a reverse glycerol test . the audiometric and electrophysiological recordings pre - and post-dialysis and the induction of the meniere 's triad of symptoms during dialysis , were strongly indicative of the presence of endolymphatic hydrops . 
infectious mononucleosis complicated by lingual tonsillitis . although upper airway obstruction and superimposed infection are well-known complications of infectious mononucleosis , lingual tonsillitis in this context has not been mentioned in the literature . we describe a case of acute bacterial lingual tonsillitis with airway obstruction complicating infectious mononucleosis . the role of the base of tongue region in the pathophysiology of infectious mononucleosis is discussed . 
acute upper airway obstruction following teflon injection of a vocal cord ; the value of nebulized adrenaline and a helium/oxygen mixture in its management a 67-year-old man presented with a 45-year history of a week voice . this was result of polio which had left him with a right vocal cord palsy . the patient underwent a teflon injection of the right vocal cord under general anaesthesia to improve the quality of his voice . in the immediate post-operative period , he suffered acute upper airway obstruction . the problem of acute upper airway obstruction following teflon injection is considered and its management with nebulized adrenaline and a helium/oxygen mixture is discussed . 
tympanosclerosis of the middle ear : late results of surgical treatment . the late results of one stage operation for middle ear tymanosclerosis in 73 patients during the period january 1965 to december 1980 are presented . mean observation time was 11.2 years ( range 3-20 .2 years ) , with a follow-up rate 86 per cent . among 64 patients with stapes fixation , 59 had removal of tympanosclerotic masses and stapes mobilization , and five cases underwent stapedectomy . the series was divided into six groups and the results analyzed . the best and most stable results occurred in the group with stapes mobilization and an intact ossicular chain followed by the group with stapes mobilization and type ii tympanoplasty with incus interposition . the poorest late results were obtained in ears with lacking stapes crura and stapes mobilization , and in ears subjected to stapedectomy . no case of post-operative sensorineural hearing loss occurred . we recommend that care is taken to preserve an intact ossicular chain at stapes mobilization performed at the same stage as myringoplasty . also in ears with a defective ossicular chain but intact stapes with tympanosclerotic fixation we recommend stapes mobilization in one stage . in ears with fixation of the stapes footplate and defective crura , we recommend stapedectomy or stapedotomy in two stages . 
benign parotid tumour enucleation -- a reliable operation in selected cases . the method of surgical treatment for benign tumours of the parotid gland had not yet been rationalized , but many authors recommend parotidectomy as the most appropriate procedure . a series of 289 operations for parotid swelling is reported ; the majority of mixed and warthin 's tumours underwent enucleation without either complications or recurrence . the rationale of parotidectomy versus enucleation is discussed but in fast growing , deeply infiltrating and recurrent tumours , parotidectomy appears to be the best choice . in the other group of more commonly occurring tumours , enucleation represents a reliable time saving option . 
recurrent bell 's palsy in pregnancy . a case of recurrent bell 's palsy occurring in two successive pregnancies in a 37-year-old woman is presented . the causes of facial nerve paralysis of the lower motor neurone type are discussed . the rate of recurrence of bell 's palsy during pregnancy is unknown . treatment with corticosteroids of bell 's palsy during pregnancy poses the threat of possible side effects on the fetus . 
hoarseness as the sole presenting symptom of foramen magnum meningioma . foramen magnum tumours are rare . they may present with bizarre symptoms and mimic many conditions . we report a presentation with the sole complaint of hoarseness , never previously described in the literature . voice returned to normal after surgical removal of the foramen magnum meningioma . 
unusual lymphoproliferative oropharyngeal lesions in heart and heart-lung transplant recipients . three unusual cases of oropharyngeal lympho-proliferative lesions were seen in recipients of heart and heart-lung transplants . two caused acute upper respiratory obstruction necessitating urgent ent intervention . all patients were receiving immunosuppressive drugs including cyclosporin . the two obstructive cases were adenotonsillar enlargement in a 6-year-old , and a tumour of the tonsil and tongue base with cervical lymph node enlargement in a 32-year-old male . both were caused by epstein-barr virus-associated lymphoproliferative disorder . the third patient , a 32-year-old female , had a presumed low grade t-cell lymphoma that regressed spontaneously . histopathological diagnosis of these lympho-proliferative disorders after transplantation usually requires immunocytochemistry to distinguish polyclonal proliferative disorders from true lymphoma . polyclonal lymphoproliferative disorders after transplantation do not usually require aggressive cytoreductive therapy , but respond to simple measures such as the reduction of immunosuppression . 
inter-arytenoid glottic bar following intubation . inter-arytenoid glottic bar is a rare complication of prolonged endotracheal intubation . we present two such cases and their treatment . the aetiology of this complication is multifactorial and involves local factors -- local trauma , movement of the endotracheal tube within the larynx , infection , and anatomical influences -- together with systemic factors such as in our two cases . the relative importance of these factors is discussed . a comment is also made on the use of a pre-operative topogram and the importance of an ent assessment in patients with airway problems following prolonged intubation . 
intralaryngotracheal thyroid . a case of intralaryngotracheal thyroid in a 57-year-old man is presented . the treatment modalities are considered and the previous literature is reviewed . 
cardiac pathology in 470 consecutive forensic autopsies . cardiovascular disease continues to be the single most common generic cause of sudden and unexpected deaths . atherosclerotic coronary heart disease and acute myocardial infarction are the most prevalent forms of fatal cardiac disease observed at autopsy . other cardiac lesions are frequently listed as causes of death , but the prevalence of such lesions as incidental findings in the general population is unknown . in this study , 470 consecutive forensic autopsies were evaluated for minor and major anomalies . the most frequently observed major congenital finding was floppy mitral valve ( 5 % ) . tunneled coronary arteries , considered minor congenital findings , were seen in 29 % . atherosclerotic coronary heart disease was the most common major acquired finding , observed in 16 % of cases . of the 470 hearts , only 8 % were considered normal . 
inadvertent clavicular fractures caused by " chiropractic " manipulations in an infant : an unusual form of pseudoabuse . a nine-month-old child was found unresponsive in his crib , five hours after his last feeding . at autopsy , there were no external or internal signs of abuse or neglect , and a few visceral pleural and epicardial petechiae were consistent with the sudden infant death syndrome ( sids ) . however , postmortem total body radiographs revealed healing , symmetrical clavicular fractures and a healing left medial humeral epicondyle fracture . the parents had no explanation for these injuries and denied causing any harm to the child . the location and nature of the fractures strongly suggested abusive origin , and the case was reported to the police and the district attorney 's office as child abuse . during the investigation , information from the parents indicated that the child had undergone " chiropractic " manipulations by an unlicensed therapist , between three and four weeks prior to death , to correct supposed " shoulder dislocations . " this time interval correlated with the histologic age of the injuries , and the history explained their unusual bilateral location and appearance . the parents were exonerated of abuse charges , and the death was ascribed to sids . 
multiple gunshot wounds of the head : an anthropological view . a decomposed body was judged at the scene to have two gunshot wounds of the thorax and three of the head . confirmed at autopsy , the condition of the remains precluded conclusions about the precise nature of the defects . preparation and reconstruction of the skull disclosed seven large cranial defects and a series of fractures . this preparation allowed the application of well-known principles of gunshot wound analysis . although the analysis of specific gunshot wound defects is well covered in the literature , there are few examples of the application of gunshot wound principles to complex wound cases . three entrances and three exits were identified . a seventh defect resulted from bullet passage . finally , the wounds were sequenced . 
a distinctive triad of malformations of the central nervous system in the meckel-gruber syndrome . a distinct triad of central nervous system ( cns ) malformations ( prosencephalic dysgenesis , occipital exencephalocele and rhombic roof dysgenesis ) was present in seven cases of the meckel-gruber syndrome examined at autopsy . we compared our findings with those previously described . microcephaly , sloping forehead , posterior occipital exencephalocele , cerebellar hypoplasia , chiari malformation , hydrocephalus , polymicrogyria , arhinencephaly , holoprosencephaly and anencephaly constituted a broad spectrum of the reported cns anomalies . few reports contained a comprehensive description of the observed cns malformations . in those reports , and in our cases , features of prosencephalic dysgenesis included agenesis of olfactory bulbs and tracts ( arhinencephaly ) , hypoplasia of optic nerves and chiasm , agenesis of corpus callosum , fused thalami or complete holoprosencephaly . the occipital encephalocele has consisted of a displacement of rhombic roof elements , including caudal third ventricle , cerebellar vermis and fourth ventricle , extruded through an enlarged posterior fontanelle rather than through an occipital cranium bifidum and is thus more precisely labeled an exencephalocele . different degrees of dysgenesis of posterior fossa structures , described by some as a variant of dandy-walker cyst with features of a chiari malformation , were often associated with this occipital exencephalocele . this pattern of cns anomalies represents a triad of malformations probably associated with defective ventral induction of the developing cns by the prechordal mesoderm . 
dexamethasone increases plasma levels of albendazole . therapy of neurocysticercosis with cysticidal drugs is frequently complicated by the exacerbation of symptoms that follows the inflammation triggered by the acute destruction of cysticerci . treatment of such adverse reactions with dexamethasone is highly effective . however , it has been shown that dexamethasone lowers the plasma levels of praziquantel , thus reducing its cysticidal efficacy . we measured plasma levels of albendazole , another strong cysticidal drug , when dexamethasone was given simultaneously . we found that dexamethasone increased the plasma levels of albendazole by about 50 % ( p less than 0.002 ) ; hence , it seems that cysticercosis and the ensuing inflammation can be treated simultaneously with albendazole and dexamethasone without diminishing the efficacy of the cysticidal drug . 
electroencephalographic activity related to palatal myoclonus in rem sleep . polysomnography , including electroencephalography , electromyography and electro-oculography was performed in three patients with palatal myoclonus ( pm ) . the amplitude of the myoclonus decreased during sleep . the frequency did not change during non-rem sleep , but increased during rem sleep in two patients . ocular myoclonus synchronized with pm disappeared during deep sleep stages in two patients and reappeared during rem sleep in one of them . in the other patient , ocular myoclonus was noted only in rem sleep , being absent even when the patient was awake . all patients showed episodic eeg activities synchronous with myoclonic jerks only in rem sleep . these episodes were noted 5-15 times throughout the night , and each episode lasting for 1-7 s. they were negative or positive waves of saw-tooth appearance which were distributed predominantly in the central region . during the episodes , the frequency of myoclonic jerks increased in two patients . although it is known that rem sleep influences pm and ocular myoclonus , this is the first report demonstrating the electroencephalographic activity associated with pm . 
treatment of chronic relapsing inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy by cyclosporin a and plasma exchange . a case report . a patient with chronic relapsing inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy was successfully treated with plasma exchanges and cyclosporin a ( csa ) . dynamometric measurements of hand force during the time of csa treatment showed a highly significant correlation between hand force and csa blood levels . the largest influence of csa on hand force occurred 11-13 days after csa uptake . 
alcohol-dependent unilateral vestibular impairment persisting after a closed head injury . a 20-year-old man suffered a closed head injury followed by symptoms of right-sided labyrinthine concussion with complete clinical recovery within 3 weeks . episodic vertigo and ataxic gait occurred after the ingestion of small amounts of alcohol over the next 2 years . electro-oculography revealed a right-sided peripheral type vestibular lesion , only after taking alcohol . this was interpreted as an alcohol-induced impairment of central compensation following an incomplete recovery from right-sided labyrinthine trauma . 
placement of esophageal stethoscope by acoustic criteria does not consistently yield an optimal location for the monitoring of core temperature . the esophageal stethoscope has evolved into a device for both acoustic and core temperature monitoring . to test whether routine placement according to acoustic criteria results in placement of the core temperature sensor in the region of contiguity between the esophagus and the heart , we determined the depth of placement electrocardiographically . all patients were undergoing nonthoracic elective operations requiring general anesthesia and tracheal intubation . first , we established that different observers selected the same esophageal depth within + / - 1 cm electrocardiographically , using the criterion of a symmetric biphasic p wave of maximal amplitude ( 7 patients ) . then , in 30 more patients , we compared routine acoustic placements with the depths of the maximal-amplitude biphasic p wave . stethoscopes placed according to acoustic criteria were within + / - 3 cm of p-wave depths in 15 of 30 patients . in the remaining patients , measured discrepancies ranged up to 13.5 cm . we conclude that the prevailing stethoscope design , with a thermistor at the tip , below the acoustic window , does not ensure placement of the thermistor within the optimal region for monitoring of core temperature . a modification in design that would take advantage of the reliability of electrocardiographic positioning is suggested . 
observer reliability in detecting surreptitious random occlusions of the monaural esophageal stethoscope . the esophageal stethoscope is used often during anesthesia to monitor ventilation and cardiac function . deficiencies in observer vigilance may limit the effectiveness of this monitoring instrument . the aim of this study was to determine how long it took for an observer to detect a surreptitiously occluded monaural esophageal stethoscope in the setting of clinical anesthesia . during routine anesthesia , where an esophageal stethoscope was in use , a computer-guided device would artificially , silently , and at random time intervals , occlude the stethoscope tubing . personnel using the stethoscope noted when they perceived the absence of stethoscope sounds . we studied 320 stethoscope occlusions in 32 patients . the time between stethoscope occlusion and detection was 34 + / - 59 seconds ( mean + / - sd ) . eighty-seven percent of detections were made in less than 60 seconds . however , 13 % of detections were delayed for more than 60 seconds , and 2.3 % for more than 240 seconds . while anesthesia personnel using an esophageal stethoscope could detect most stethoscope occlusions , failure to appreciate such episodes occurred in a small but significant number of cases . this suggests that the esophageal stethoscope has some definite limitations as a continuous monitor and that other monitoring techniques , such as oximetry , capnography , and ventilator disconnect alarms , as well as visual/tactile inspection of the patient , should be used as well . 
electrocardiographic ambulatory monitoring with a real-time analysis system . the analysis of records collected during long-term ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring has traditionally involved the review of massive data , either manually or with the aid of interactive scanning computers . many factors complicate this analysis , including the use of analog tape for storage of electrocardiographic waveforms , the need to analyze 100,000 waveforms from an average 24-hour study , and the need to deal with an interface that compresses 24 hours of data into as little as 6 minutes on a screen . today , the computer incorporated in the monitor can scrutinize each cardiac cycle in real time . the system produces a statistical report based on every heart beat and also performs data reduction and storage of electrocardiograph samples . to assess real-time analysis we examined data collected from the circadian circamed ambulatory electrocardiography system . we found that it could detect and quantify simple or complex ventricular ectopic beats , brady - or tachyarrhythmic events , and st-segment deviation . one hundred fifty patients 21 to 85 years old with symptoms or clinical finding suggestive of ischemia , cardiac arrhythmia , or conductive defects were referred to our electrocardiography laboratory for ambulatory monitoring . the results demonstrate that this system can detect the full range of cardiac disease found with the traditional method . of the 150 patients , ambulatory electrocardiographic tests were positive in 93 ( 62 % ) . in addition , we developed a methodology for lead placement when using two bipolar leads , as is typical for ambulatory electrocardiography . we present a procedure for determining the optimum lead placement that is based on the patient 's history and a 12-lead electrocardiogram . 
treatment of metastatic melanoma with an autologous tumor-cell vaccine : clinical and immunologic results in 64 patients . we treated 64 patients with metastatic melanoma using a melanoma vaccine preceded by low-dose cyclophosphamide ( cy ) , and monitored immunologic effects and antitumor activity . on day 0 , the patients were given cy 300 mg/m2 intravenously . three days later , they were injected intradermally with vaccine consisting of 10 to 25 x 10 ( 6 ) autologous , enzymatically dissociated , cryopreserved , irradiated ( 25 gy ) tumor cells mixed with bacillus calmette-guerin ( bcg ) . this treatment sequence was repeated every 28 days . of 40 assessable patients with measurable metastases , five had responses , four complete and one partial , with a median duration of 10 months ( 7 to 84 + months ) . in six additional patients , we observed an antitumor response that seems to be peculiar to this vaccine therapy : the regression of metastatic lesions that appeared after the immunotherapy was begun . delayed-type hypersensitivity ( dth ) to autologous , mechanically dissociated melanoma cells that had not been exposed to extraneous antigens , such as enzymes or fetal calf serum , increased significantly following immunotherapy ( day 0 v day 49 , p less than .001 ; day 0 v day 161 , p less than .001 ; day 0 v day 217 , p = .021 ) . antitumor responses to the vaccine were strongly associated with dth , as indicated by three observations : ( 1 ) eight of 10 patients who exhibited tumor regression had positive dth , ( 2 ) in postsurgical adjuvant patients , there was a highly significant linear relationship ( p less than .001 ) between the intensity of dth to autologous melanoma cells and the time to recurrence of tumor , and ( 3 ) nine patients who developed dth to the autologous melanoma cells in their original vaccine developed new metastases that failed to elicit dth or elicited a much smaller response . in three cases , we were able to excise regressing tumors for histologic examination ; such tumors were characterized by an intense infiltration of lymphocytes . this demonstration that an immune response to melanoma-associated antigens can be elicited in cancer-bearing patients provides some basis for optimism about the prospects for developing active immunotherapy that has practical therapeutic value . 
quantitative analysis of antibody localization in human metastatic colon cancer : a phase i study of monoclonal antibody a33 . a33 is a mouse immunoglobulin g2a ( igg2a ) monoclonal antibody ( mab ) that detects a heat-stable , protease - and neuraminidase-resistant epitope . the antigen is homogeneously expressed by virtually all colon cancers and in the colon mucosa but not other epithelial tissues . the biodistribution and imaging characteristics of iodine-131 ( 131i ) - maba33 were studied in colorectal carcinoma patients with hepatic metastases . antibody labeled with 2 to 5 mci of 131i was administered intravenously ( iv ) 7 to 8 days before surgery at five dose levels , ranging from 0.2 mg to 50 mg , with three or more patients entered at each dose level . in addition , three patients received 2 mg 131i-mabta99 ( an isotype-matched control mab ) together with 125i-maba33 . evaluation included whole-body imaging with a gamma camera , technetium-99 ( 99mtc ) - human serum albumin blood pool scans , liver/spleen scans , abdominal computed tomographic ( ct ) scans , hepatic arteriograms , antibody pharmacokinetics , and assessment of antibody distribution in biopsied malignant and normal tissues . selective maba33 localization to tumor tissue was demonstrated in 19 of 20 patients , and external imaging correlated with surgical inspection , pathologic examination , and tissue radioactivity . one week after antibody administration , tumor : liver ratios ranged from 6.9:1 to 100:1 and tumor : serum ratios from 4.1:1 to 25.2:1 . 99mtc-albumin blood pool studies showed that liver metastases were hypovascular , emphasizing the selective localization of maba33 despite poor tumor-blood flow . control mabta99 studies showed maba33 localization was antigen-specific ; tumor : liver ratios were 2.3 - to 45-fold higher for specific antibody . in metastatic lesions , radioisotope was localized primarily in the viable periphery ; however , even the necrotic tumor core concentrated specific antibody . external imaging showed isotope visualization in some patients ' large bowel ; whether this represents specific antibody uptake or gastric iodine secretion is unclear . 
early hospital discharge of children with cancer treated for fever and neutropenia : identification and management of the low-risk patient . children with leukemia and solid tumors are often hospitalized for empiric broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy because of fever during periods of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia . conventional practice dictates that parenteral antibiotics be continued until the patient is afebrile and has recovered from neutropenia , ie , until the absolute neutrophil count ( anc ) exceeds 500 cells per cubic millimeter . however , the practice in our center has been to discontinue parenteral antibiotic therapy and discharge many such patients before resolution of neutropenia . since the feasibility and safety of this approach has not been studied , we reviewed the records of 114 consecutive hospitalizations for fever and neutropenia in 61 patients during a 13-month period . seventy-seven children ( 68 % ) were discharged to their homes while still neutropenic after they had been afebrile for 1 to 2 days on parenteral antibiotics , had negative blood cultures , appeared well , and usually had some evidence of bone marrow recovery . five patients ( 4.4 % ) developed recurrent fever and required rehospitalization within 7 days of discharge . only three of the 77 patients ( 3.9 % ) who were sent home with neutropenia had recurrent fever . each had a brief and uneventful second hospitalization . two of the 37 children discharged with an anc over 500 cells per cubic millimeter required rehospitalization . a declining anc and advanced malignancy were risk factors in predicting recurrence of fever following discharge . a rising monocyte count was a predictor of imminent recovery from neutropenia . these results suggest that " early " discharge of an afebrile yet still neutropenic patient is safe when the patient is in remission , has no evidence of serious infection , appears clinically stable , and has indications of bone marrow recovery . the conventional approach of routinely continuing the hospitalization until resolution of neutropenia may be unnecessary in such low-risk patients . 
cruciate paralysis : a clinical and radiographic analysis of injuries to the cervicomedullary junction . fourteen patients with superior cervical spinal cord injuries and the clinical signs and symptoms of cruciate paralysis are presented . this rare injury pattern is characterized by weakness of the upper extremities with little or no compromise of lower-extremity function following trauma to the superior spinal cord . anatomically , cruciate paralysis is thought to represent selective injury to descending corticospinal tracts as they decussate at the cervicomedullary junction . the clinical and radiographic findings of each patient are outlined and the incidence and natural history of the injury syndrome , including a review of the literature , are presented . 
unruptured intracranial aneurysms and arteriovenous malformations : frequency of intracranial hemorrhage and relationship of lesions . among 91 patients with unruptured intracranial arteriovenous malformations ( avm 's ) , 16 patients had 26 unruptured intracranial saccular aneurysms . an actuarial analysis showed the risk of intracranial hemorrhage among patients with coexisting aneurysm and avm to be 7 % per year at 5 years following diagnosis compared to 1.7 % for patients with avm alone . the difference in length of survival free of hemorrhage was significant ( log-rank , p less than 0.0007 ) . several angiographic and clinical parameters were investigated to better understand the relationship of these lesions . the aneurysms occurred in similar percentages in patients with small , medium , and large avm 's . twenty-five aneurysms were on arteries feeding the malformation system , almost equally distributed proximally and distally . eleven aneurysms were atypical in location , and all arose from primary or secondary branch feeders to the malformation ; 24 were on enlarged feeding arteries . eleven ( 16 % ) of the 67 patients with high-flow avm 's had associated aneurysms , compared with five ( 21 % ) of the 24 patients with low-flow avm 's . four ( 16 % ) of 25 low-shunt malformations and 12 ( 18 % ) of 65 high-shunt malformations had associated aneurysms . all five aneurysms associated with low-shunt malformations were on a direct arterial feeder of the malformation . these data suggest that the intracranial avm 's predispose to aneurysm formation within avm feeding systems and that the mechanism is not simply based upon the high blood flow or high arteriovenous shunt in these systems . 
biologically inert synthetic dural substitutes . appraisal of a medical-grade aliphatic polyurethane and a polysiloxane-carbonate block copolymer . two types of artificial membranes , a medical-grade aliphatic polyurethane and a polysiloxane-carbonate block copolymer , were tested as substitutes for dura in 24 and 12 rabbits , respectively . the films were placed either epidurally , subdurally , or as dural grafts in equal subgroups of animals . the postoperative course was uneventful with no manifestations of convulsive disorder or cerebrospinal fluid leak . the animals were sacrificed 3 , 6 , or 9 months after implantation of the artificial membranes . both types of artificial membranes were easily removed from the underlying nervous and the other surrounding tissues . the histological examination failed to reveal adhesions , neomembrane formations , or any type of foreign body reactions to the polyurethane film . the implantation of the polysiloxane-carbonate film caused no reaction when it was applied epidurally . as a dural graft , the polysiloxane-carbonate copolymer induced the formation of a thin neomembrane of one to two layers of fibroblasts which formed a watertight seal of the dural defect . a similar thin neomembrane was found to encase this artificial membrane in the group of animals in which it was implanted subdurally . there was no foreign body reaction to the polysiloxane-carbonate film . the authors conclude that these materials hold promise as dural substitutes or in the prevention of spinal dural scarring , and should be evaluated clinically . 
spontaneous regression of giant arteriovenous fistulae during the perinatal period . case report . a unique case of spontaneous regression of giant arteriovenous fistulae during infancy is described in this report . a female infant , the product of normal labor and delivery , demonstrated severe ventriculomegaly and an intracranial hemorrhage at birth . cerebral angiography at 5 days of age revealed several large fistulae fed by the anterior and middle cerebral arteries draining into the deep venous system through a dilated internal cerebral vein and ectatic vein of galen . two days following the angiogram , a second intracranial hemorrhage occurred . active hydrocephalus developed over the next 6 months and was treated with ventriculoperitoneal shunting . when the child was 8 months of age , angiography failed to demonstrate the fistulae . it was postulated that pressure effects from the intracranial hematoma and long-standing intracranial hypertension as well as stenosis in the anomalous venous outflow resulted in vascular stasis , venous thrombosis , and selective arterial occlusion . hydrocephalus was a result of the compression of the intraventricular foramina by dilated embryonic vessels . this anomaly , predominantly involving the anterior circulation , may be homologous to the vein of galen aneurysm in the posterior circulation . 
angiographic demonstration of acute phase of intracranial arterial spasm following aneurysm rupture . case report . a case documenting the acute phase of intracranial arterial spasm following rupture of an aneurysm arising from the left internal carotid artery is reported . the patient deteriorated due to recurrent hemorrhage while undergoing angiography 12 hours after the initial aneurysm rupture . the acute deterioration was accompanied by dilatation of the ipsilateral pupil and occurred during injection of contrast material . there was delayed filling of the middle cerebral artery complex along with this narrowing . the arterial narrowing was confirmed to have completely disappeared on an angiographic series performed 14 minutes after the first series of films . the etiology of the acute vasospasm is discussed . 
subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by a fungal aneurysm of the vertebral artery as a complication of intracranial aneurysm clipping . case report . intracranial aneurysms are an uncommon manifestation of fungal infection . a case is described in which the formation of an aneurysm followed an intracranial intraoperative aspergillus infection attributable to a long period of preoperative antibiotic medication and immunosuppressive therapy with steroids . 
myocardial uptake of indium-111-labeled antimyosin in acute subendocardial infarction : clinical , histochemical , and autoradiographic correlation of myocardial necrosis . indium-111-labeled antimyosin has been utilized in the diagnosis and localization of acute transmural myocardial infarction . the present report describes a patient who presented with a massive subendocardial infarction . two days after the injection of antimyosin , the patient 's clinical status markedly deteriorated and he expired . postmortem examination demonstrated severe three-vessel coronary artery disease with extensive myocyte death in the endocardium . autoradiography and histochemical staining of the prosected heart demonstrated high correlation for myocardial necrosis and corresponded to clinical evidence for diffuse subendocardial infarction . 
impact of the availability of a prior electrocardiogram on the triage of the patient with acute chest pain study objective : to determine whether information from a prior electrocardiogram ( ecg ) improves diagnostic accuracy in the emergency department ( ed ) evaluation of patients with acute chest pain . design : analysis of prospectively collected data from a cohort study . setting : emergency departments of four community and three university hospitals . patients : 5,673 patients aged greater than or equal to 30 years who presented to the eds of participating hospitals for evaluation of acute chest pain , including 772 ( 14 % ) with acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) . measurements and main results : after adjusting for clinical characteristics , no significant difference was found in the sensitivities of admission to the hospital or to the coronary care unit ( ccu ) between ami patients with and without prior ecgs available for review . however , non-ami patients with prior ecgs available for review were more likely to avoid ccu admission than were non-ami patients without prior ecgs . this improvement in specificity was most marked in the 2,024 patients whose current ed ecgs had changes consistent with ischemia or infarction : when a prior ecg was available , non-ami patients were more than twice as likely to be discharged ( 26 % vs. 12 % ) and about 1.5 times as likely to avoid ccu admission ( 39 % vs. 27 % ) ( both p less than 0.0001 ) . admission rates of ami patients with and without prior ecgs were similar . conclusion : when the current ecg is consistent with ischemia or infarction , the availability of a prior ecg for comparison to determine whether the ecg changes are old or new improves diagnostic accuracy and triage decisions by reducing the admission of patients without ami or acute ischemic heart disease ( increased specificity ) without reducing the admission of patients with these diagnoses ( unchanged sensitivity ) . 
expert testimony based on decision analysis : a malpractice case report . objective : expert testimony in malpractice cases is often subjective and biased . decision-analytic techniques might provide an objective basis for such testimony . design : case report . this article reports the case of a patient with chest pain that resulted in a malpractice suit alleging a delay in diagnosis of coronary artery disease . setting : the case occurred in a private practice ; the expert witnesses and the decision analysis originated from a university teaching hospital . methods : a decision tree and threshold analysis were used to define the thresholds of disease probability at which either testing or treatment should be implemented . the expert testimony of two witnesses that exercise stress testing was the standard of care was compared with the results of the decision analysis . main results : decision analysis supported the view that cardiac catheterization would have been the more appropriate test . conclusions : techniques of decision analysis provide a structured and quantitative basis for empirical judgment and may help to minimize current problems with expert testimony . 
speech , velopharyngeal function , and hearing before and after orthognathic surgery . articulation , voice , resonance , hearing sensitivity , and middle ear function were examined in 34 patients before and 3 , 6 , 9 , and 12 months after orthognathic surgery . thirty of the 34 patients had articulation errors before surgery . errors on the sibilants / s / and / z / occurred most frequently , followed by those on / j , zh , ch / and / sh / . errors were predominantly distortions with both visual and acoustic components . after surgery , articulation improved spontaneously in the absence of intervention . most of the preoperative articulation errors were eliminated by 3 months postoperative , but , thereafter , a gradual decline was noted so that by 12 months , errors occurred on / s / and / z / . voice , resonance , velopharyngeal port area , and hearing sensitivity were not altered by surgery . this study suggests that severe skeletal malocclusions requiring surgical correction have deleterious effects on the patients ' articulation of consonants and that surgical alteration leads to the correction of most of these errors . 
facial muscle reanimation using the trigeminal motor nerve : an experimental study in the rabbit . surgical repair of facial nerve deficits may be marred by lack of muscle control and donor region paresis . using new zealand white rabbits , a study was undertaken to evaluate facial muscle reanimation with a donor source not previously used : the motor division of the trigeminal nerve . the results were compared with the severed facial nerve and hypoglossal-facial coaptation . an atrophy scale was calibrated for facial muscles of the rabbit . clinical , electromyographic , and histomorphometric findings confirmed that the trigeminal nerve was a suitable donor source . the neurorrhaphy produced an exponential rate of repair . 
central adenoid cystic carcinoma of the mandible . a patient with adenoid cystic carcinoma arising centrally within the mandible , a rare location for this malignant salivary gland tumor , is described . current concepts regarding the etiology , diagnosis , histology , and treatment of central intramandibular salivary gland tumors are discussed and the literature is reviewed . 
mucous cell hyperplasia in an odontogenic cyst from a patient with muir-torre syndrome . mucous cell proliferation in a periapical radicular cyst from a patient with a family history of colonic malignancies and multiple sebaceous neoplasms of the skin , so-called muir-torre syndrome , is reported . such goblet cell hyperplasia has not been previously reported to be associated with any known syndrome . we believe the finding of mucous cell hyperplasia in an odontogenic cyst may not simply be coincidental , but should raise suspicion of paraneoplastic potential and warrant further evaluation for possible occult neoplastic disease . 
very low birth weight children : behavior problems and school difficulty in a national sample we addressed three questions concerning the behavioral and academic status of low and very low birth weight infants through a secondary analysis of the 1981 national health interview survey -- child health supplement : ( 1 ) in children born with very low birth weight , what is the risk of behavior problems and school difficulty compared with that in heavier low birth weight and normal birth weight children ? ( 2 ) what are the correlates of school difficulty ? ( 3 ) are behavior problems associated with school difficulty when variables are controlled for these correlates ? the analysis revealed that 34 % of very low birth weight children could be characterized as having school difficulty , compared with 20 % and 14 % of the other groups , respectively , and that they were more likely to have higher scores on the hyperactive subscale of the behavior problems index . although a broad array of sociodemographic factors correlated with school difficulty , very low birth weight and hyperactivity scores contributed independently to the risk of academic problems . we conclude that very low birth weight infants are at risk of having school problems that are in part associated with hyperactive behavior . 
transient renal acidification defect during acute infantile diarrhea : the role of urinary sodium . we studied urinary acidification daily during the hospital course of 16 infants with acute gastroenteritis and metabolic acidosis . urine ph value on admission was higher than 5.5 in 14 ( 87 % ) patients . we hypothesized that inappropriate urinary acidification was due to sodium deficiency and inadequate sodium delivery to the distal nephron . forty-one urinary samples were collected during metabolic acidosis . the mean ph of 24 urine samples with sodium concentration less than 10 mmol/l was significantly higher than the ph of 17 samples with sodium concentration greater than 10 mmol/l ( 6.04 + / - 0.06 vs 5.19 + / - 0.1 ; p less than 0.001 ) . the urine ratios of titratable acid to creatinine and of total acidity to creatinine were significantly higher in urine samples containing more sodium ( p less than 0.02 ) , whereas the ammonium/creatinine ratio was not . after administration of furosemide or correction of the sodium deficit , appropriate acidification was observed . we conclude that impaired urinary acidification is frequently found during metabolic acidosis in infants with acute gastroenteritis and results from a sodium deficit rather than from transient distal renal tubular acidosis . 
clinicopathologic review of twelve children with nephropathy , wilms tumor , and genital abnormalities ( drash syndrome ) . the clinicopathologic and radiologic features of 12 children with complete and incomplete forms of drash syndrome are reported . their common denominator was a nephropathy . four had the full triad , consisting of nephropathy , wilms tumor , and genital abnormalities ; five had nephropathy and genital abnormalities , and three had nephropathy and wilms tumor . of the 11 children who had proteinuria , eight had the nephrotic syndrome . of the 10 whose condition progressed to end-stage renal failure , seven were less than 3 years of age . the histologic features of wilms tumor were favorable in all seven children , and the tumor was bilateral in three . of the nine patients who had genital abnormalities , eight had 46 , xy karyotype and either ambiguous genitalia ( six patients ) or normal female phenotype ( two ) . one other patient had a normal 46 , xx female karyotype and phenotype but had both mullerian and wolffian structures and a streak ovary . nine patients had a distinct pelvicaliceal abnormality not previously reported as a feature of this syndrome . other congenital abnormalities were aniridia , mental retardation , deafness , nystagmus , and cleft palate . this syndrome must be considered in any infant with unexplained nephropathy , particularly in young phenotypic female infants and in those children with ambiguous genitalia or wilms tumor with an early presentation . 
prolonged indomethacin therapy for the prevention of recurrences of patent ductus arteriosus . we tested the hypothesis that prolonged maintenance indomethacin therapy would allow more effective closure of patent ductus arteriosus ( pda ) and thereby decrease the recurrence rate . thirty-nine low birthweight neonates ( less than 1500 gm ) with confirmed pda were randomly assigned in a double-blind fashion to receive standard indomethacin therapy ( three doses ) , followed either by maintenance indomethacin therapy ( 0.2 mg/kg/day ) for 5 days or by an equivalent volume of placebo for 5 days . of the 20 infants who received maintenance indomethacin therapy , two ( 10 % ) required additional therapy and one of these required surgical ligation . of the 19 infants who received only the first three indomethacin doses , nine ( 47 % ) required additional therapy for pda ( p less than 0.05 ) and seven of these had a ligation ( p less than 0.05 ) . we conclude that maintenance indomethacin therapy , in comparison with short-term indomethacin therapy , decreases the incidence of surgical pda ligations , eliminates most pda recurrences , and does not increase toxic effects of indomethacin in the low birth weight infant with pda . 
effects of cisapride in patients with cystic fibrosis and distal intestinal obstruction syndrome . in a double-blind , placebo-controlled , crossover trial , we investigated the effects of the prokinetic drug cisapride in patients with cystic fibrosis and chronic recurrent distal intestinal obstruction syndrome ( dios ) . after a baseline period , 17 patients ( 12.9 to 34.9 years ; 12 boys ) received , in random order , cisapride ( 7.5 to 10 mg ) and placebo three times daily by mouth , each for 6 months . gastrointestinal symptoms ( flatulence , abdominal pain , fullness , abdominal distension , nausea , anorexia , heartburn , diarrhea , vomiting and regurgitation ) were scored three times monthly and physical examinations assessed . at baseline and at each 6-month period , assessment included food intake for 7 days , 3-day stool collection , pulmonary function tests , and abdominal radiographs . during cisapride therapy compared with placebo , there were significant reductions in flatulence ( p less than 0.005 ) , fullness , and nausea ( p less than 0.05 ) . patients with the worst symptom scores benefited most from cisapride . with cisapride , 12 patients felt better and three worse ( p less than 0.05 ) ; physicians judged 11 patients improved and two worse ( p less than 0.05 ) . no side effects were noted . there were no significant differences between cisapride and placebo periods in nutritional status , x-ray scores , pulmonary function , food intake ( fat , protein , calories ) , stool size and consistency , and fecal losses of fat , bile acids , chymotrypsin , and calories . for acute episodes of dios , intestinal lavage was needed 6 times in 4 patients during treatment with cisapride , and 11 times in 6 patients receiving placebo . in comparison with unselected patients with cystic fibrosis and pancreatic insufficiency who were receiving enzyme supplements and who had no distal intestinal obstruction , fecal fat losses ( percentage of intake ) were almost twice as high in the study group with dios ( 31.2 + / - 20.6 % vs 16.2 + / - 17.6 % ; p less than 0.01 ) . we conclude that in the dosage used , long-term treatment with cisapride appears to improve chronic abdominal symptoms in patients with cystic fibrosis and dios , but fails to abolish the need for intestinal lavage . cisapride treatment had no effect on digestion and nutritional status of cystic fibrosis patients with pancreatic insufficiency . 
two urogenital sinus syndromes . interstitial cystitis and focal vulvitis . forty-six young women had unusual and presumably noninfectious disorders of unknown etiology involving tissues derived from the embryonic urogenital sinus ( urogenital sinus syndromes ) . ten women had interstitial cystitis , and 25 had focal vulvitis . eleven women had both interstitial cystitis and focal vulvitis . the affected groups were similar in demographic and other characteristics . most were white and in their mid-20s . both unusual conditions occurred in the same woman more often than could be expected by chance . this observation suggests that some common , perhaps autoimmune mechanism may be involved in the etiology of these syndromes . 
the abdominal trauma index -- a critical reassessment and validation . the abdominal trauma index ( ati ) was devised to quantify the risk of complications following abdominal trauma . with scores greater than 25 , the risk of postoperative complications became exponential . the purpose of the present study was to determine if : 1 ) the organ risk factors previously assigned were more statistically valid ; and 2 ) the addition of physiologic variables would enhance the prediction of postinjury intra-abdominal sepsis . fifteen abdominal organ systems and 17 physiologic variables in 300 consecutive patients were analyzed to determine ability to predict intraabdominal sepsis . there were no significant differences in predictive ability between the old and new organ risk factors . the addition of physiologic factors did not enhance the prediction of intra-abdominal sepsis . this clinical study demonstrates that : 1 ) the risk of intra-abdominal sepsis increases with increasing ati score ; 2 ) the previous ( 1979-initial ) organ risk grading concept is statistically valid ; 3 ) six of the 15 organ systems warrant a change in their relative rank order ( 1989-revision ) ; 4 ) the addition of demographic , physiologic , and immunologic variables did not significantly improve the prediction of intra-abdominal sepsis . 
disability from bicycle-related injuries in children . bicycle crashes are a major cause of injuries in childhood . the goal of this study was to determine the long-term disabilities caused by bicycle-related injuries , and to clarify the long-term treatment priorities of injured children . hospital records of 372 children ( ages 2-15 yr , median 9 yr ; 232 boys and 140 girls ) admitted with bicycle-related injuries from 1979 through 1986 provided clinical information , social service visits , in-hospital and outpatient rehabilitative interventions , and physical status at discharge . more complete evaluations were made by contacting parents by telephone ( 82 children ) , and by personal interview and physical examinations ( 27 ) . head injuries predominated ( 69.1 % ) . twelve ( 3.2 % ) died , all from major head injuries . four suffered permanent severe impairment from cervical spinal injuries and head injuries and remain institutionalized ( 1.4 % ) . one third had a persistent disability noted at the time of discharge in the medical record ( 33.6 % ) , reported by telephone interview ( 31.7 % ) , or confirmed by physical examination ( 37.0 % ) . still , only 11.0 % received physical therapy consultations during hospitalization , and 22.8 % received social service assistance . only 39.0 % were seen by a surgeon or pediatrician after discharge , and few ( 7.3 % ) received outpatient physical therapy . cognitive or behavior changes were noted in 31.7 % , many noting changes in school performance ( worse in 20.7 % ) , behavior ( 13.4 % ) , and sleep , particularly nightmares ( 34.1 % ) . recurrent injuries occurred in 52 children ( 14.4 % ) , of whom ten ( 2.8 % ) required further hospital admission . bicycle-related injuries cause significant short - and long-term disabilities among children . 
parotid gland and facial nerve trauma : a retrospective review . included in this study are all patients with trauma to the parotid region seen at our center from 1979 to 1989 . there was a total of five patients with injury to the parotid area : two patients with isolated facial nerve injury ; one with isolated parotid duct injury ; two with combined duct and nerve injury . there were four males and one female , with a mean age of 34 years ( range , 16 to 62 years ) . the three patients with parotid duct injury required other procedures for associated trauma . a total of eight nerve branches were severed in four patients . seven of the eight nerve branches ( 82.5 % ) were primarily repaired , with excellent functional results . two of the three ductal injuries were repaired primarily over a stent , and one was ligated . no complications resulted from either treatment . based on our clinical experience and review of the literature , we suggest that the treatment of parotid region injuries should include : 1 ) a complete initial assessment ; 2 ) primary repair of parotid duct transection within 24 hours when possible ; 3 ) primary repair of all facial nerve injuries , although delayed nerve repair remains a viable alternative ; and 4 ) nonsurgical treatment of sialoceles and fistulae . 
use of recombinant human erythropoietin ( r-huepo ) in a jehovah 's witness refusing transfusion of blood products : case report . recombinant human erythropoietin ( r-huepo ) administration to a jehovah 's witness refusing blood transfusions increased her nadir packed cell volume from 13 % to 37 % and reticulocyte count from 2 % to 17.7 % . r-huepo may provide an alternative safe and effective therapy in life-threatening anemia when blood transfusions are unacceptable to the patient . 
pediatric blunt liver injury and coagulopathy managed with packs and a silo : case report . packing the abdomen can be lifesaving when severe hepatic trauma is complicated by refractory hypothermia , coagulopathy , and continuing hemorrhage requiring large-volume transfusion . this report describes the successful use of abdominal packs and a modified silo in a child following blunt liver injury . 
clinical experience with the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil in suspected benzodiazepine or ethanol poisoning . the clinical efficacy of different doses of the specific benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil was studied in a total of 72 patients with benzodiazepine or ethanol overdose . in a randomized double-blind study , 18 patients ( group 1 ) and eight patients ( group 2 ) with suspected benzodiazepine overdose received 5 mg ( group 1 ) or 1 mg ( group 2 ) flumazenil or placebo , respectively . the stage of coma , heart rate , blood pressure and respiratory rate were monitored within the following 15 min . if no change in the stage of coma was observed , 5 mg ( group 1 ) or 1 mg ( group 2 ) flumazenil were given , and the stage of coma , heart rate and blood pressure were again monitored . in a similar way , the effect of 5 and 1 mg flumazenil was investigated in 13 patients ( group 3 ) and four patients ( group 4 ) with ethanol intoxication . in an open trial , the clinical efficacy of flumazenil for the diagnosis of benzodiazepine or ethanol overdose was studied in 29 patients ( group 5 ) . in all patients , a toxicological screening confirmed benzodiazepine or ethanol overdose . none of the patients receiving placebo showed effects on stage of coma , heart rate , blood pressure or respiratory rate . patients with benzodiazepine overdose who received 5 mg flumazenil regained consciousness about 1-2 min after the end of injection . the effect of 1 mg flumazenil ( group 2 ) on benzodiazepine-induced coma was less pronounced . in patients with ethanol overdose ( group 3 ) , ethanol-induced coma was reversed after 5 mg flumazenil more slowly than in patients of group 1 . no effect of flumazenil on ethanol-induced coma was observed in group 4 . in group 5 , flumazenil proved to be useful for diagnosing benzodiazepine or ethanol intoxication . in one patient with coma due to carbamazepine overdose , flumazenil was also found to be effective . additionally , a possible analytical interference of flumazenil and its metabolites with the identification of other benzodiazepines by a toxicological screening procedure was studied . even after an oral dose of 200 mg flumazenil , no interference with immunological benzodiazepine assays ( emit , tdx , and ria ) was found . a metabolite and an artifact of flumazenil could be identified in urine by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry . 
skin blisters as a manifestation of oxazepam toxicity . a 75 year-old comatous patient was admitted after ingestion of 200 mg oxazepam . skin blisters , attributed to oxazepam toxicity , appeared on the left forearm the following day and regressed spontaneously nine days later . 
anatomical relationship between the renal venous arrangement and the kidney collecting system . the anatomical relationships between the renal venous arrangement and the pelviocaliceal system were studied in 52 , 3-dimensional polyester resin corrosion endocasts . in 53.8 % of the cases , there were 3 large venous trunks and in 28.8 % there were 2 venous trunks joining to form the main renal vein . intrarenal veins demonstrated free anastomoses that were disposed in 3 systems of longitudinal arcades ( stellate , arcuate and interlobar veins ) . there were large venous collars around caliceal necks and also horizontal arches crossing over calices to link anterior and posterior veins . in 84.6 % of the cases the upper caliceal group was encircled anteriorly and posteriorly by venous plexuses , which coursed parallel to the infundibulum . in 50.0 % of the cases the lower caliceal group also was enriched by 2 venous plexuses . a close relationship existed between a large inferior tributary of the renal vein and the anterior aspect of the ureteropelvic junction in 40.4 % of the cases . in 69.2 % of the cases there was a posterior ( retropelvic ) vein : in 48.1 % this vein had a close relationship to the junction of the pelvis with the upper calix and in 21.1 % it crossed the middle posterior surface of the renal pelvis . 
incidence and properties of renal masses and asymptomatic renal cell carcinoma detected by abdominal ultrasonography . renal ultrasonography was performed in 45,905 adults , including 41,364 without any signs suggesting urinary tract malignancies , 1,667 with microscopic hematuria only and 2,874 with some signs of malignancy . renal lesions were found in 355 adults ( 0.858 % ) in the asymptomatic , 39 ( 2.3 % ) in the microscopic hematuria and 75 ( 2.6 % ) in the symptomatic groups , respectively . renal cell carcinoma was found in 35 ( 7.5 % ) lesions : 19 ( 5.4 % ) in the asymptomatic , none in the microscopic hematuria and 16 ( 21.3 % ) in the symptomatic groups . a total of 47 patients , including 12 other renal cell carcinoma patients transferred from related hospitals , was grouped into 28 without and 19 with symptoms . primary tumor size and clinical stages were significantly smaller and lower , respectively , in the asymptomatic group than in the symptomatic group . radical nephrectomy was performed in all but 2 asymptomatic patients . the 5-year survival rates after nephrectomy were 94.7 and 60.9 % for the asymptomatic and symptomatic groups , respectively ( p less than 0.01 ) . the results indicate that ultrasonography is a useful tool to detect low stage asymptomatic renal cell carcinoma at low cost . 
extravesical versus leadbetter-politano ureteroneocystostomy : a comparison of urological complications in 320 renal transplants . the urological complications of 320 consecutive renal transplants performed at our institution between october 17 , 1985 and november 10 , 1989 are reviewed . the leadbetter-politano technique of ureteroneocystostomy was used in the first 160 patients ( group 1 ) and an anterior extravesical technique modified from the methods of witzel , sampson and lich was performed in the second 160 patients ( group 2 ) . urological complications occurred in 15 patients ( 9.4 % ) in group 1 and 6 ( 3.7 % ) in group 2 ( p = 0.04 ) . ureterovesical junction obstruction occurred in 6 patients ( 3.7 % ) in group 1 and 1 ( 0.6 % ) in group 2 ( p = 0.05 ) . complications of leakage , ureteral necrosis and ureteral stricture were comparable in the 2 groups . therefore , we advocate the use of the anterior extravesical technique over leadbetter-politano ureteral reimplantation based on the lower incidence of urological complications and various technical advantages , including less operative time , avoidance of a separate cystotomy , less hematuria and ability to use short donor ureters . 
primary adenocarcinoma of the bladder : favorable prognostic significance of deoxyribonucleic acid diploidy measured by flow cytometry . flow cytometric nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid ploidy analysis was done successfully on 38 specimens of primary bladder adenocarcinoma treated between 1954 and 1985 . of the specimens 10 ( 26 % ) were deoxyribonucleic acid diploid , 8 ( 21 % ) were tetraploid and 20 ( 53 % ) were aneuploid . distribution of ploidy patterns between the 14 histological low grade and 24 high grade tumors was similar . of 38 tumors 35 ( 92 % ) showed muscle invasion . one tumor arose in a previously exstrophied bladder , 10 were of urachal origin and 27 arose in an anatomically normal bladder . of the urachal origin tumors 80 % were deoxyribonucleic acid aneuploid . at 5 and 10 years after diagnosis 80 and 70 % , respectively , of the patients with diploid tumors were free of disease . by contrast , at 5 and 10 years after treatment only 20 and 12 % , respectively , of the patients with nondiploid tumors have not had disease progression ( p less than 0.001 log-rank test ) . none of the 6 patients with diploid , high grade , high stage , muscle invasive tumors had subsequent progression . in contrast , 16 of 17 patients ( 94 % ) with high grade , high stage , nondiploid tumors had either local or distant tumor recurrence ( p less than 0.0005 ) . nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid ploidy pattern appears to be the most significant prognostic information currently available to stratify expected prognosis for patients with muscle invasive adenocarcinoma of the bladder . this test probably should be a standard tool in the clinical management of patients with this rare bladder malignancy . 
recurrent urethral stricture disease managed by clean intermittent self-catheterization . we studied 41 patients with urethral stricture who had failed at least 1 operation , and were being maintained with filiform and follower dilation every 6 to 12 weeks . the patients were instructed in clean intermittent self-catheterization with a 16f red rubber catheter , which was performed every 1 to 30 days . followup from 9 to 36 months revealed excellent compliance and average peak uroflow rates increased from 5.5 cc per second before dilation to 17.1 cc per second at the last followup visit . clean intermittent self-catheterization is a simple method to maintain a patent urethra and obviates the need for further operations or painful dilations . 
urinary excretion of tamm-horsfall protein in women with recurrent urinary tract infections . since ms-fimbriated bacteria adhere to tamm-horsfall protein , it has been suggested that tamm-horsfall protein may trap urinary pathogens and prevent them from colonizing the mucosal surfaces of the urinary tract . to test the hypothesis that low urinary tamm-horsfall protein excretion rates predispose to urinary tract infection we obtained serial urine samples from 17 women with and 18 without a history of recurrent urinary tract infection . none of the women had known structural abnormalities of the urinary tract . concentrations of tamm-horsfall protein in urine were measured with a sensitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay method . on the average , 3 urine samples per person collected within 3 to 6 months were analyzed . the mean tamm-horsfall protein excretion of women with recurrent urinary tract infection was 57.0 mg . / l. and that of controls was 66.3 mg . / l. ; this difference was not statistically significant . the mean coefficient of variation was 44.2 and 62.1 % , respectively . we conclude that urinary tamm-horsfall protein concentration is not significantly decreased in women with recurrent urinary tract infection compared with controls , and that excretion varies widely in repeat samples obtained from the same individual . 
urinary retention due to sacral myeloradiculitis : a clinical and neurophysiological study . we report 5 cases of sacral myeloradiculitis presenting with transient urinary retention . neurophysiological testing , including bulbocavernosus reflex , pudendal evoked response and external anal sphincter electromyography , was performed . parasympathetic pelvic nerves , pudendal nerves as well as the spinal cord seem to be involved to various degrees in this infrequent disorder . 
massive hemorrhage from an arterioureteral fistula associated with chronic renal transplant failure . a case of arterioureteral fistula from the graft artery stump of a failed transplant and the native ureter is reported . this case illustrates one of the possible complications of graft anastomosis . the etiological factors involved in the formation of the aneurysm and eventually the fistula are discussed . 
cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic pyelitis and ureteritis associated with cystitis in marrow transplantation . a 29-year-old woman suffered fatal hemorrhagic pyelitis , ureteritis and cystitis after receiving 4,800 mg . / m. 2 cyclophosphamide in preparation for marrow transplantation despite intravenous hydration and a foley catheter . cyclophosphamide-induced urothelial damage is not limited to the bladder and upper tract monitoring also is necessary . 
fatal sepsis following intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin administration for bladder cancer . intravesical administration of bacillus calmette-guerin has been shown to be highly effective treatment of superficial bladder cancer . complications from bacillus calmette-guerin therapy are usually minor but serious and even fatal reactions can occur . five recent cases illustrate the gravity of bacillus calmette-guerin sepsis . one man with severe debility and the organic brain syndrome died acutely with a fever of 40 c. two men had frank sepsis that progressed to multiorgan failure and death . sepsis progressed despite the use of isoniazid , rifampin and streptomycin . two men who had equally progressive sepsis with intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin survived with the use of cycloserine for the first 72 hours of treatment . triple antituberculous antibiotics , including cycloserine , may be lifesaving . sepsis resulted from intravenous absorption through inflamed or disrupted urothelium . bacillus calmette-guerin treatment should not be administered in the presence of severe cystitis or after grossly traumatic catheterization . 
outcome of renal transplantation after urinary diversion and enterocystoplasty : a retrospective , controlled study . a total of 17 patients with intestinal urinary diversion of enterocystoplasty underwent renal transplantation between 1970 and 1988 . patient age ranged from 4 to 35 years ( mean age 20 years ) . the patients were divided into 2 groups . in group 1 ( 10 patients , 2 of whom required retransplantation ) the ureter of the transplanted kidney was implanted into an ileal ( 7 ) or colonic ( 1 ) conduit or enterocystoplasty ( 2 ) . in group 2 ( 7 patients , 1 of whom required a second transplant ) the diversion was taken down and the transplanted ureter was implanted into the defunctionalized bladder . there were 14 living related and 6 cadaveric kidneys transplanted . graft survival rates were 58 and 87 % in groups 1 and 2 , respectively , with an over-all rate of 70 % ( 14 of 20 kidneys ) . there was no statistical difference in the graft survival rate between the 2 groups . the complications in group 1 included ureteroileal anastomotic leak ( 3 patients ) , ureteroileal stenosis ( 1 ) , calculus formation ( 1 ) , urosepsis ( 1 ) , hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis ( 1 ) , and wound infection and dehiscence ( 1 ) . there were no complications in group 2 . renal transplantation into a pre-existing urinary intestinal conduit or augmented bladder does not statistically adversely affect patient or graft survival . however , the complication rate is much higher when the ureter is implanted into an intestinal segment . therefore , it is preferable whenever possible to implant the ureter into the native bladder . 
the detubularized right colonic segment as urinary reservoir : evolution of technique for continent diversion . continent diversion of urine via a cecal-right colonic reservoir has been performed at our university hospital since 1977 . several modifications of surgical technique have been devised to prevent problems of urinary leakage and difficulties in catheterization . the current technique , used during the last 3 years on 14 patients , involves use of a detubularized right colonic segment as a reservoir , ileal mesenteric exclusion , fashioning the intussuscepted ileal nipple valve with staples and anchoring of a fascia strip sling around the nipple base to the anterior rectus sheath . complication from the reservoir outlet occurred in only 1 patient . 
complications in hyperthermia treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia . of 435 patients treated with local hyperthermia to the prostate 27 had 29 complications , for an over-all complication rate of 6.6 % . urinary tract infections ( 7 cases ) , hematuria ( 6 ) , and epididymitis ( 2 ) accounted for roughly half of the complications and could be attributed to the insertion of a catheter rather than the treatment itself but this remains to be proved . most of the complications occurred within the first 3 treatment sessions . despite the complication , 9 patients continued and completed the treatment course . mean age of the study group was 73 + / - 8.3 years . given the age of these patients , high incidence of accompanying diseases and low rate of complications , local hyperthermia should be considered a viable low risk treatment option in patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia . 
clinical and pathological findings in prostates following intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin instillations . the prostates of 36 patients who were treated with intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin were evaluated by digital rectal examination and transrectal ultrasonography . when abnormal palpatory and/or ultrasonographic findings were detected , core needle biopsies from the suspicious areas were performed . of the 36 patients 20 underwent biopsies of the prostate . pathological findings revealed typical granulomas in 8 patients ( 3 caseating and 5 noncaseating multifocal granulomas ) . nonspecific chronic prostatitis was noted in 4 patients and benign prostatic hyperplasia was noted in 8 . the number of bacillus calmette-guerin instillations ranged from 6 to 19 . the interval from initiation of therapy to biopsy ranged from 1.5 to 14.5 months . caseating granulomas were found during the early course of bacillus calmette-guerin instillations ( 1.5 to 3.0 months ) , whereas noncaseating granulomas were detected at later stages ( 4 to 14.5 months ) . these findings present a high incidence of granuloma formation in patients treated with intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin . the duration of therapy is a determinant factor in the induction of granuloma type . 
the madigan prostatectomy . a total of 59 patients with bladder outflow obstruction underwent the madigan prostatectomy . the method , results and complications are described . for select patients with large benign adenomas without a median lobe or hematuria we believe the technique to be the operation of choice , particularly in younger patients . advantages include absence of postoperative hematuria and clot retention , a decreased requirement for blood transfusions , a 16f postoperative catheter with early removal , avoidance of post-catheter stricture , a low rate of postoperative urinary infection , a short comfortable period of hospitalization and , in the long term ( median followup 6 years ) , preservation of potency and antegrade ejaculation . 
role of nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy for clinical stage b2 prostate cancer . to examine the role of nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy in patients with clinical stage b2 prostate cancer we reviewed the first 77 such patients in our series since we adopted the nerve-sparing technique . a total of 47 patients ( 61 % ) underwent bilateral and 26 ( 34 % ) underwent unilateral nerve-sparing prostatectomy , while in 4 ( 5 % ) both neurovascular bundles were resected . among the patients followed for 12 months 27 of 41 ( 66 % ) treated with bilateral and 7 of 19 ( 37 % ) treated with unilateral nerve-sparing prostatectomy had potency preserved . with the strict clinicopathological criteria of organ-confined tumor , that is intracapsular tumor with negative surgical margins and undetectable postoperative prostate specific antigen levels , complete tumor excision was achieved in 17 patients ( 36 % ) treated with bilateral and 7 of 26 ( 27 % ) treated with unilateral nerve-sparing prostatectomy . all patients in whom both neurovascular bundles were resected had pathological stage c or d1 disease . of the 24 patients who had complete tumor excision by the strict criteria only 15 ( 19.5 % of the 77 preoperatively potent patients ) had potency preserved . of these patients 19 had microscopically positive margins without seminal vesicle invasion ( pathological stage c1 ) with undetectable postoperative prostate specific antigen levels . in addition , 4 patients had seminal vesicle involvement with negative surgical margins and undetectable postoperative prostate specific antigen levels . if these patients also are considered as having complete tumor excision , there was an over-all complete tumor excision rate of 61 % ( 47 of 77 ) , of whom 25 ( 32 % of the 77 patients ) had preservation of potency . ten patients with clinical stage b2 tumor whose potency was preserved had histological and serological evidence of incomplete tumor excision . of 53 patients with pathological stage c1 disease 9 ( 17 % ) had margins positive only in the regions of the neurovascular bundles . preoperative prostate specific antigen and acid phosphatase levels , and findings on transrectal ultrasonography failed to predict accurately which patients had extracapsular tumor extension . patients with poorly differentiated tumors and/or bulky disease on rectal examination had a higher incidence of extracapsular extension and positive margins . we conclude that in the majority of potent patients with clinical stage b2 prostate cancer not all of the goals of nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy are realized . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
a giant renal artery aneurysm diagnosed post partum . we report a case of a 5.8 cm . right renal artery aneurysm diagnosed intact 8 weeks post partum . rupture of a renal arterial aneurysm during pregnancy is a rare but well described catastrophic event . there are no previous reports of an intact renal artery aneurysm diagnosed either ante partum or post partum . to our knowledge , this also represents the largest reported renal artery aneurysm . the aneurysm was repaired successfully with kidney salvage and closure of the fistulous connection to the renal vein . 
reverse coitus : mechanism of urethral injury in male partner . reverse coitus , a rarely used sexual position , makes the male urethra more vulnerable to injury from the pubic arch and symphysis pubis of the female partner . severe pain , bleeding and immediate detumescence were observed in 3 patients . the lesion usually occurred at the fossa navicularis , responded well to conservative management and did not hinder micturition . potency has been well preserved in all 3 patients . 
pressure threshold for shock wave induced renal hemorrhage . studies were performed with an interest in determining a pressure threshold for extracorporeal shock wave induced renal damage . histological evidence of intraparenchymal hemorrhage was used as an indicator of tissue trauma . depilated c3h mice were anesthetized and placed on a special frame to enhance visualization and treatment of the kidneys in situ . a wolf electrohydraulic generator and 9 french probe designed for endoscopic use were utilized to expose the kidneys to 10 double spherically divergent shock waves . measurements of the shock waves revealed two positive pressure peaks of similar magnitude for each spark discharge . the kidneys were exposed to different peak pressures by choice of distance from the spark source and were removed immediately after treatment for histologic processing . a dose response was noted with severe corticomedullary damage apparent following 15 to 20 mpa shocks . hemorrhage was more apparent in the medulla where evidence of damage could be seen following pressures as low as three to five mpa . when a latex membrane was interposed to prevent possible collapse of the initial bubble from the spark source against the skin surface , histological evaluation revealed substantial reduction of severe tissue damage associated with the highest pressures tested , 20 mpa . however , the threshold level for evidence of hemorrhage remained about three to five mpa . hydrophonic measurements indicated that the membrane allowed transmission of the acoustic shock waves and suggested that collapse of the bubble generated by electrohydraulic probes may have local effects due to a cavitation-like mechanism . 
physiologic and pathologic alterations associated with ultrasonically generated shock waves . kidneys of 25 dogs were treated with ultrasonic shock waves and examined for both physiologic and pathologic changes . the number of pulses ranged from 2,000 to 8,000 . the rate of the shock waves varied from one to 20 pulses per second . the difference in pulse rate did not affect the changes seen either acutely or in the delayed examination of the kidneys during the repair process . the physiologic and pathologic changes which occurred involved the renal tubule to a greater degree than the glomerulus . these alterations were resolving by one week following exposure to the shock waves . 
inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm masquerading as occlusion of the inferior vena cava . inflammatory aneurysms are an uncommon disorder that represent between 5 % and 10 % of abdominal aortic aneurysms . their presentation is often variable and may include pain and obstruction of adjacent anatomic structures . this report describes a 68-year-old man who sought treatment after insidious onset of progressive bilateral lower extremity edema over a 6-month period . noninvasive studies were suggestive of bilateral iliac vein occlusion , and a venogram showed a nearly obstructed vena cava from external compression . a ct scan showed a thick-walled infrarenal abdominal aneurysm . at exploration an inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm was found . because of the presence of dense inflammatory changes surrounding the aneurysm and extending into the pelvis , the surgical procedure of choice was an aortobifemoral bypass graft done with dacron . the aneurysmal wall was debrided from the vena cava . his postoperative course was uneventful , his edema resolved , and follow-up noninvasive studies were normal . postoperative venography showed resolution of the extrinsic compression of the vena cava . 
free protein s deficiency in a family with venous thrombosis . inherited deficiencies of protein s , an inhibitor of the coagulation system , are now recognized as occurring at least twice as frequently as antithrombin iii deficiency in patients with venous thrombosis . protein s is present in plasma in a complexed form , which is inactive , and in a free or functional form . free protein s combines with activated protein c to inhibit factors v and viii . this report describes the evaluation of a family with recurrent deep venous thrombosis and superficial thrombophlebitis . levels of antithrombin iii and protein c as well as plasminogen were normal . the levels of total protein s , which includes the value for the free and complexed forms of protein s , were also normal . however , the free protein s levels were greatly reduced in all symptomatic members who were studied . this report illustrates the importance of obtaining measurement of free protein s levels in patients who are suspected of having inherited venous thrombotic disorders . 
the effects of an iron chelator on cellular injury induced by vascular stasis caused by hypothermia . rewarming of a cooled rabbit leg was associated with the generation of oxygen-derived free radicals , shown to be instrumental for tissue injury occurring during rewarming . the present study used a compound that , by its ability to bind with free iron , can remove hydroxyl radical ( oh . ) from tissue . deferoxamine reduced tissue injury during cooling and rewarming , as evidenced by its ability to decrease tissue release of lactic acid dehydrogenase and creatine kinase . deferoxamine also reduced the formation of oh . and lipid peroxidation during the rewarming phase . this compound did not have any effect on the arterial blood flow pattern , which uniformly decreased during cooling and was restored during rewarming . the results of this study indicate the efficacy of deferoxamine in reducing cellular injury associated with cold and rewarming and further suggest a role for oxygen-derived free radicals in the pathophysiology of cold-rewarming injury . 
indications for distal arterial reconstruction in the presence of palpable pedal pulses . eight patients with severe pedal ischemia in the presence of palpable foot pulses are described . all had atherosclerosis , and seven patients also had diabetes . there were two anatomic patterns of disease , including supramalleolar obstruction with reconstitution of pulsatile flow in three patients and segmental occlusion of the pedal vessels in five . all patients underwent arterial reconstructive surgery . patency was sustained in six patients , with limb salvage in five and below-knee amputation in one patient for persistent necrosis and infection of an open amputation . of the two eventual bypass failures , a transmetatarsal amputation continued to heal in one patient , and the other required amputation below the knee . palpable pedal pulses and satisfactory ankle/brachial indexes did not rule out the presence of surgically correctable distal arterial occlusive disease . therefore arteriography is indicated in any patient with persistent forefoot ischemia that fails to respond to conservative measures . the safety and patency of the distal reconstructive procedures performed in this series suggest that salvage of weight-bearing tissue and rapid healing , as well as limb salvage , are legitimate indications for revascularization . 
femur fracture with limb shortening causing occlusion of a polytetrafluoroethylene femoral popliteal graft . traumatic occlusion of lower extremity polytetrafluoroethylene arterial grafts is exceedingly rare . we report a patient who suffered a supracondylar femur fracture resulting in shortening of her right lower extremity with kinking and thrombosis of her above-knee polytetrafluoroethylene arterial graft . this is the first report in the english language of prosthetic graft occlusion as a result of traumatic limb shortening . the graft thrombus was successfully lysed by use of intraarterial urokinase , and the kink was repaired by graft resection and reanastomosis . the mechanism of injury and treatment are discussed . 
intraabdominal hemorrhage as a result of segmental mediolytic arteritis of an omental artery : case report . this article describes the fifth reported case of segmental mediolytic arteritis and the second in a survivor . the patient had intraabdominal bleeding as a result of a ruptured omental artery . the pathologic and arteriographic findings are described . the pathology is characterized by segmental disruption of the medial smooth muscle cells and the initiation of mediolysis . mediolysis is associated with marked segmental thinning of the vessel wall , often with only the adventitia intact . fibrin is deposited at the adventitial and medial surfaces , and hemorrhage into the media may occur . as in this reported case , lysis of the adventitia leads to sudden , often catastrophic intraabdominal hemorrhage . little associated adventitial inflammation occurred . segmental mediolytic arteritis seems to involve the intra-abdominal muscular arteries in elderly patients with nonspecific abdominal symptoms . an angiogram showed patchy areas of narrowing involving ileal , gastroduodenal , and renal arteries that correlated with the pathologic findings observed in the excised omental arteries . 
unusual aspects of aortovenous fistulas associated with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms . three unusual cases of an abdominal aortic aneurysm spontaneously rupturing into the retroperitoneum and an adherent posterior vein are reported . no patient demonstrated signs or symptoms of an aortovenous fistula before surgery . emergent surgery prevented extensive preoperative diagnostic testing . the three abdominal aortic aneurysms were very large and averaged 13 cm in diameter . one fistula involved an inflammatory aneurysm , which is the fifth such case reported . the aortic fistulas were to the inferior vena cava ( 158 other cases reported in the english-language literature ) , a left renal vein ( 16 other cases reported ) , and an iliac vein ( 7 other cases reported ) . routine use of the cell-saver , oversewing of the fistula from within the aneurysm , and a heightened awareness that this unusual complication is more common in the presence of a very large , ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm should improve survival . 
deep vein obstruction and leg swelling caused by femoral ganglion . we present a case of a rare ganglion cyst originating from the hip joint and compressing the common femoral vein producing signs and symptoms that mimicked a deep vein thrombosis . excision of the mass promptly restored normal venous return . this condition has not been previously reported in the english-language medical literature . 
visual impairment in a rural appalachian community . prevalence and causes . a population-based survey of 1136 subjects aged 40 years and older was conducted in a rural valley of kentucky to determine the nature and extent of visual disability in an underserved area of rural america . data on corrected visual acuity and ocular history , along with demographic , socioeconomic , and health care utilization parameters , were gathered . those subjects with an acuity below 20/60 in either eye underwent a comprehensive ophthalmologic examination . the prevalence of binocular blindness ( acuity worse than 20/400 in the better eye ) was 0.44 % and of monocular blindness ( acuity worse than 20/400 in one eye ) was 3.3 % , approximately twice the national rates . the chief cause of bilateral visual impairment was macular degeneration among men and cataract among women . cataract , trauma , and amblyopia were the major causes of monocular visual impairment in both sexes . risk factor analysis revealed younger age , higher education , active employment , access to a health care facility , and comprehensive health insurance coverage to be inversely associated with visual impairment . 
the diagnosis and management of aortic dissection . aortic dissection is a severe disease . most untreated patients with types i and ii ( proximal ) dissection and over half of those with type iii ( distal ) dissection die within 1 year . most of the deaths occur within 2 weeks and are caused by rupture , aortic insufficiency , and branch vessel obstruction . aortic dissection is suspected in patients with anterior chest and back pain that progresses downward . diagnosis is confirmed by computed tomography , aortography , or echocardiography . appropriate medical treatment and corrective surgery , including total aortic replacement , performed in the acute and chronic stages , are now successful in over 90 % of the cases ; long-term results of treatment are steadily improving and are expected to exceed 50 % at 10 years . the keys to a successful outcome are being aware of the symptoms of dissection , early diagnosis , and prompt application of appropriate treatment ; diligent follow-up includes controlling blood pressure , decreasing the velocity of left ventricular contraction , monitoring the size of the residual aorta , and taking appropriate action if redissection , aneurysmal formation , or rupture occurs . 
excess deaths from nine chronic diseases in the united states , 1986 to assess excess mortality from chronic disease in the united states , state age-adjusted combined mortality rates for nine chronic diseases in 1986 were compared with three " minimum " rates -- two calculated from rates actually achieved in states and a third estimated as the mortality remaining after elimination of one risk factor for each disease . hawaii had the lowest mortality rate of combined diseases ( 305/100 ,000 ) ; state excesses ranged from 0 % to 37 % . the sum of lowest disease-specific rates in any state was 284 per 100,000 , indicating excesses of between 7 % and 41 % . a minimum mortality rate of 224 per 100,000 was estimated to result from elimination of one risk factor for each of the nine diseases , indicating state excesses from 26 % to 54 % , or 524,000 us deaths . reduction of us mortality from the nine diseases to the risk factor -- eliminated rate is estimated to be associated with an increased life expectancy at birth of 4 years . 
diclofenac-associated hepatotoxicity diclofenac sodium , a phenylacetic acid-derived nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug ( nsaid ) recently released in the united states , was associated with the development of significant hepatitis in seven patients , with one associated death . signs and symptoms developed within several weeks of initiation of drug use and generally resolved 4 to 6 weeks following discontinuation of use of the drug . the only patient rechallenged with the drug developed a recurrence of her hepatic abnormalities . in one patient , fatal , fulminant hepatitis developed despite early withdrawal of the drug . review of the european literature disclosed three additional fatalities associated with diclofenac therapy . it is unclear whether the incidence of hepatotoxicity is higher with this drug compared with other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs . careful patient monitoring is advised , and prompt discontinuation of the drug is suggested when signs or symptoms of liver disease develop . 
what getting sick means . the concepts of health , disease and death have intrigued man since the beginning of time and are continually evolving . in the nonwestern societies the models which have been proposed for the etiology of disease have a dichotomous view of disease causation which is derived from either natural or supernatural forces . in the western societies these concepts are well defined . the numerous advances in the fields of genetics and molecular biology have added a new dimension to the understanding of the various factors involved in the pathogenesis of disease processes . these advances have allowed a greater understanding of numerous disease processes including the inborn errors of metabolism , endocrine disorders and human neoplasia . several recent advances in the areas of molecular biology and physiology allowing this increased understanding of human disease are presented . 
effect of chronic respiratory acidosis on urinary calcium excretion in the dog . it is currently believed that the two chronic acidemic disorders exert disparate effects on urinary calcium excretion : chronic metabolic acidosis induces consistent hypercalciuria , but no appreciable change or even a decrease in calcium excretion is reported to attend chronic respiratory acidosis . whereas the effect of metabolic acidosis is well documented , little work has been carried out in chronic hypercapnia . in fact , most of the studies on chronic respiratory acidosis were short in duration , had employed only mild hypercapnia , or had failed to control carefully the prevailing metabolic conditions . we have carried out balance observations in nine dogs exposed to a 10 % co2 atmosphere in an environmental chamber for a period of two weeks . chronic respiratory acidosis led to a significant increase in urinary calcium excretion from a mean control value of 0.4 + / - 0.1 mmol/day to 0.6 + / - 0.1 mmol/day during both week 1 and 2 of hypercapnia ( p less than 0.05 ) . hypercalciuria occurred even though filtered load of calcium fell . mean fractional excretion of calcium increased significantly during each week of hypercapnia averaging 0.60 + / - 0.12 % during control , 1.05 + / - 0.13 % during week 1 , and 1.26 + / - 0.17 % during week 2 of hypercapnic exposure ( p less than 0.05 ) . there were no changes in plasma levels of immunoreactive parathyroid hormone or 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 . these findings suggest that chronic respiratory acidosis , just like chronic metabolic acidosis , augments urinary calcium excretion by a direct depressive effect on the tubular reabsorption of calcium . 
complications of stapled anastomoses in anterior resection for rectal carcinoma : colorectal anastomosis versus coloanal anastomosis . postoperative results of 48 patients who underwent anterior resection using the eea-stapler were evaluated . in all but 2 cases the indication for surgery was colorectal carcinoma . in 24 patients an anastomosis was created above the 5 cm level ( above the anal verge : colorectal anastomosis ) and in 24 at the 0-5 cm level ( coloanal anastomosis ) . there was no perioperative mortality . the only complication observed in the colorectal anastomosis group was one case of late anastomotic stenosis . in the coloanal anastomosis group there were 4 cases with early anastomosis leaks , 3 cases with late stenosis and 5 cases with various degrees of late fecal incontinence , ultimately resulting in a permanent diverting stoma in 5 ( 10.4 % ) patients . we conclude that for rectal tumors the eea-stapled anterior resection provides excellent functional results in most cases . stapled coloanal anastomoses more often demonstrate various ( early and late ) complications . nevertheless in spite of chronic discomfort , many patients still prefer their complaints to a permanent stoma . 
carcinoma of the pancreas : a retrospective review . eighty-five patients with adenocarcinoma of the pancreas were reviewed in order to evaluate the efficacy of our methods of diagnosis and treatment . the most useful diagnostic test was percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography ( ptc ) with a diagnostic rate of 96 % . pancreaticoduodenectomy ( whipple procedure ) and total pancreatic resection were performed in 13 and 2 patients , respectively . the remaining 50 patients underwent various palliative drainage procedures . twenty patients did not undergo operation for various reasons . the primary tumor was found in the head of the pancreas in 50 patients ( 59 % ) , the body in 6 patients ( 7 % ) , and in the tail in 8 patients ( 9 % ) . postoperative complications , including sepsis , bleeding , intra-abdominal abscesses , and anastomotic leaks , occurred in 37 % of the patients . there were one operative and 9 postoperative deaths . the average survival for those patients undergoing surgical intervention was 6 months . there were no 5-year survivors . 
colon carcinoma associated with ureterosigmoidostomy . a patient developing a colonic adenoma 38 years following ureterosigmoidostomy is presented . the mechanisms of neoplastic transformation associated with ureterosigmoidostomy is now better understood . this knowledge is being applied to develop modifications both of the surgical technique and the management of patients with this form of urinary diversion , and is a subject of discussion . 
metastatic tumors of the umbilicus : a review 1830-1989 . umbilical metastases from known and unknown primary cancers are rare . the eponym " sister mary joseph 's nodule " has been used by generations of physicians . the first reports of this clinical sign were from walshe in 1846 . a review of the literature revealed 265 cases from then until 1989 . only 85 cases of umbilical metastasis from unknown primary tumors were found . this review should help us to focus on the common and uncommon primary sites in the diagnosis of patients with this finding . a single case report and the work-up for the hidden primary tumor are described . 
rupture of thoracic aorta caused by blunt trauma . a fifteen-year experience . during the 15 years from 1971 through 1985 , 114 patients with rupture of the thoracic aorta caused by blunt trauma were admitted to the shock trauma center of the maryland institute for emergency medical services systems . mean age was 31.3 years ( range , 15 to 80 ) . ninety were male and 24 were female , a 3.75:1 ratio . of the 114 , 89 ( 78.1 % ) survived initial resuscitation in the admitting area . twenty five of the 89 initial survivors ( 28.1 % ) died during or after surgical repair . paraplegia occurred in 11 of the 78 operating room survivors ( 14.1 % ) . further analysis was done of the 83 patients admitted in the 10-year period from 1976 through 1985 . mean injury severity score , excluding aortic injury , was 18.2 . twenty-five of the 83 ( 30.1 % ) died during resuscitation in the admitting area or operating room . seven others died during surgical repair and 12 died postoperatively , leaving 39 survivors ( 39/83 [ 47 % ] of total admissions and 39/58 [ 67.2 % ] of survivors of resuscitation ) . paraplegia/paresis developed postoperatively in six of 34 ( 17.6 % ) cases involving shunt and four of 17 ( 23.5 % ) without shunt . other major complications occurred in 21 of the operating room survivors . statistically significant risk of death or major complication was associated with female sex , higher injury severity score , lower admission blood pressure , larger hemothorax on admission , less qualified surgeon , major operation before aortic repair , use of shunt , and transfer directly from scene of injury . there was no advantage in this series to using or not using a shunt in preventing paraplegia . mortality rates are realistic for a highly developed trauma system . better techniques are needed to manage exsanguination and prevent paraplegia . 
thirty-year follow-up of superior vena cava-pulmonary artery ( glenn ) shunts . the first superior vena cava-pulmonary artery shunt ( glenn shunt ) in our series was performed in february 1958 . from then through september 1988 , 91 patients have undergone this procedure for a wide variety of congenital defects . we here report follow-up data available on all patients . ages ranged from 2 days to 46 years ( mean 6.8 ) . diagnoses were as follows : tricuspid atresia , 27 ; single ventricle , 22 ; tetralogy of fallot , 14 ; d-transposition of the great arteries , ventricular septal defect , and pulmonary stenosis , 9 ; d-transposition , 5 ; ebstein 's anomaly , 4 ; pulmonary atresia + intact septum , 4 ; and others , 6 . the hospital mortality rate was 7.7 % ( one death in the last 53 patients , 1.9 % ) . five deaths occurred in patients less than 6 months old . there were 20 late deaths ( 22 % ) with actuarial survival rates of 84 % and 66 % at 10 and 20 years , respectively . pulmonary arteriovenous fistula formation was seen in 18 patients ( 19.7 % ) , six of whom have undergone therapeutic embolization with improvement in saturation . the prevalence of pulmonary arteriovenous fistula increases with time after shunt . no long-term shunt thrombosis or stricture formation was seen . fifty percent of shunts were still functioning at 20 years . palliation was limited because of decrease in blood flow to the contralateral pulmonary artery , collaterals between the inferior and superior venae cavae , and pulmonary arteriovenous fistula formation . improvement in saturation was obtained in eight otherwise inoperable patients by creation of a right axillary arteriovenous fistula up to 19 years after the glenn shunt . three patients had conversion of a blalock-taussig shunt to a glenn shunt with improvement in congestive heart failure . twenty-six patients have undergone a fontan procedure with two deaths . compared with the group having a fontan procedure without a prior glenn operation , there was no difference in early or late mortality . thirty years after a glenn shunt , the first patient in this series is working full time after having undergone a modified fontan procedure in 1981 . we conclude that the glenn connection , usually with supplemental procedures to enhance oxygenation , has provided excellent physiologic palliation with low mortality up to 30 years with no late thrombosis or stricture formation . the incidence of pulmonary arteriovenous fistula increases with time and can be effectively treated with embolization . physiologic repair after the glenn shunt carries a low mortality . although currently used infrequently , superior vena cava-pulmonary artery shunting remains a useful method of palliation in selected patients . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
mitral valve replacement in the first year of life . from 1973 through 1987 25 patients underwent mitral valve replacement in the first year of life for mitral stenosis and mitral regurgitation . the patients with mitral stenosis included two with mitral arcade , two with supravalvular mitral stenosis with hypoplastic mitral valve , and one with parachute mitral valve . included in the group of patients with mitral regurgitation were 12 with atrioventricular canal defect , six with chordal and leaflet defects , one with marfan 's syndrome , and one with bacterial endocarditis . prostheses included 12 bjork-shiley ( 17 mm ) , seven st. jude medical ( 19 mm in four , 21 mm in three ) , five stent-mounted dura mater valves ( 12 mm to 16 mm ) , and one porcine xenograft ( 19 mm ) . in four patients the valves were placed in the left atrium in a supraannular location . there were nine operative ( atrioventricular canal defect seven , mitral regurgitation two ) and five late ( atrioventricular canal defect four , mitral stenosis one ) deaths , giving actuarial 1 - and 5-year survival rates of 52 % and 43 % , respectively . all 6 patients with tissue valves died ; the four with supraannular mitral valve replacement survived . since 1983 operative mortality has been reduced to 0 % ( 70 % confidence limits 0 % to 24 % ) . nine patients required a second mitral valve replacement for prosthetic stenosis 5 to 69 ( mean 30 ) months after the original mitral valve replacement ( one operative death ) . because of improvements in repair of atrioventricular canal defect in infancy , the need for mitral valve replacement at atrioventricular canal defect repair has decreased . although valvuloplasty has been advocated for repair of congenital mitral valve disease and is applicable in some infants with mitral regurgitation , mitral valve replacement is frequently unavoidable for congenital mitral disease and can now be accomplished at a low operative risk , even when the prosthesis has to be positioned supraannularly . 
aortic replacement with composite grafts created with a sutureless intraluminal ringed prosthesis . from 1980 to 1988 , 30 patients from a total population of 123 recipients of sutureless grafts ( 24 % ) have required aortic reconstruction with a composite ringed graft . replacement of the ascending aorta was required in 12 patients , of the aortic arch in six patients , of the descending aorta in two patients , of the thoracoabdominal aorta in two patients , and of the abdominal aorta in eight patients . eight patients ( 27 % ) needed an emergency operation at the time of admission . no patients had permanent neurologic or renal deficits . there was no evidence of pseudoaneurysm formation , graft erosion , graft migration , or aortic bleeding in the postoperative period . two operative deaths ( 7 % ) occurred , both in patients undergoing arch reconstruction . composite grafts can be created that vary in length and shape , incorporate different graft materials , and accommodate the aorta and its branches . the ability to modify the sutureless prosthesis to suit the disease encountered at operation allows the quickest repair with the least chance of anastomotic complication . 
coagulation factor abnormalities as possible thrombotic risk factors after fontan operations . severe thromboembolism occurred in 3 of 37 patients who had undergone fontan-type operations for correction of congenital heart defects several months to years after the operation . the patients were screened for coagulation factor abnormalities to find out whether known prothrombotic risk factors could explain the high frequency of thromboembolism . 63 abnormalities were found in 24 of the 37 patients . the commonest and most pronounced abnormality was deficiency of protein c , a known risk factor . concentrations of antithrombin iii and factors ii and x were significantly lower in protein-c-deficient patients than in those with normal protein c concentrations . these findings suggest that the high thrombotic risk in these patients is caused or at least associated with an imbalance between procoagulant and anticoagulant factors . 
buruli ulcer in benin in a study of 28 patients with mycobacterium ulcerans infection ( buruli ulcer ) in oinhi , benin , it became clear that the disease can regress as well as progress , and that patients can have lesions of different stages simultaneously . a system of disease staging was introduced ( i = subcutaneous nodule ; ii = cellulitis ; iii = ulceration ; iv = scar formation ) . research to find an effective treatment for this crippling disease is urgently needed . 
malignant transformation of adenomatous hyperplasia to hepatocellular carcinoma . to clarify the course of adenomatous hyperplasia ( ah ) of the liver , 17 patients with 20 biopsy-proven ah nodules were followed clinically for 1-5 years . at the initial biopsy the mean nodular diameter was 10 ( sd 4 ) mm and the relative cellularity [ ( mean cellularity of ah divided by mean parenchymal cellularity ] x 100 ) 141 ( 27 ) . the criteria for diagnosis of malignant transformation of ah were both a doubling of nodular volume and changes on imaging . between 6 and 50 months after biopsy , 9 of the 18 nodules which could still be accurately identified met the criteria for transformation ; histological proof of hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) was obtained later for 7 of these 9 nodules . the product of diameter and cellularity ( transformation index ) was the strongest predictor of the time to transformation . 9 ah nodules did not undergo transformation -- 7 did not meet one or both criteria and 2 became undetectable by imaging . because of the high risk of malignant transformation , it can be concluded that ah is an absolute precursor of hcc . it should therefore be treated as a potential malignant disorder . 
effect of exposure of miners to aluminium powder . ' mcintyre powder ' ( finely ground aluminium and aluminium oxide ) was used as a prophylactic agent against silicotic lung disease between 1944 and 1979 in mines in northern ontario . to find out whether the practice produced neurotoxic effects a morbidity prevalence study was conducted between 1988 and 1989 . there were no significant differences between exposed and non-exposed miners in reported diagnoses of neurological disorder ; however , exposed miners performed less well than did unexposed workers on cognitive state examinations ; also , the proportion of men with scores in the impaired range was greater in the exposed than non-exposed group . likelihood of scores in the impaired range increased with duration of exposure . the findings are consistent with putative neurotoxicity of chronic aluminium exposure . 
impact of active immunisation against enteritis necroticans in papua new guinea . enteritis necroticans , known locally as pigbel , has been a major cause of illness and death among children in the highlands of papua new guinea . after a successful trial of active immunisation against the beta toxin of the causative organism , clostridium perfringens type c , immunisation of children was begun in 1980 . the effects of the immunisation programme on pigbel admissions in 3 of the 5 major highland hospitals were assessed . in each of the centres studied the proportion of admissions due to enteritis necroticans dropped significantly after immunisation was introduced ( p less than 0.001 ) and hospital admissions for pigbel in 1984-86 , when immunisation was well established , were less than one fifth of previous figures . 
features of " near-death experience " in relation to whether or not patients were near death the medical records of 58 patients , most of whom believed they were near death during an illness or after an injury and all of whom later remembered unusual experiences occurring at the time , were examined . 28 patients were judged to have been so close to death that they would have died without medical intervention ; the other 30 patients were not in danger of dying although most of them thought they were . patients of both groups reported closely similar experiences but patients who really were close to death were more likely than those who were not to report an enhanced perception of light and enhanced cognitive powers . the claim of enhancement of cognitive functions despite the likelihood that brain function had probably become disturbed and possibly diminished , deserves further investigation . 
randomised , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of nimodipine in acute stroke . trust study group . the value of oral nimodipine 120 mg per day for acute stroke was assessed in a randomised , double-blind , placebo-controlled multicentre study of 1215 patients . the primary end-point was independence after 6 months , defined as a score of 60 or more on an activities of daily living ( adl ) scale , the barthel index . patients were entered into the trial if they were aged over 40 , became hemiparetic in the previous 48 h , were conscious , were able to swallow , and had been living independently before the stroke . at 6 months , 55 % of the nimodipine group and 58 % of the placebo group were independent , the odds ratio for independence on nimodipine being 0.88 ( 95 % confidence limits 0.70-1 .10 ) . for mortality the odds ratio with nimodipine was 1.22 ( 95 % confidence limits 0.95-1 .57 ) . adl and neurological scores also suggested delayed recovery in the nimodipine group at 3 weeks . the results do not support the case for oral nimodipine therapy 120 mg per day starting within 48 h of the stroke , for patients with acute stroke . 
national general practice study of epilepsy : newly diagnosed epileptic seizures in a general population . the national general practice study of epilepsy is a prospective population-based cohort study of 1195 patients with newly diagnosed or suspected epileptic seizures . at the time of initial classification ( 6 months after notification ) , 104 patients were excluded . of the remaining 1091 patients , 220 ( 20 % [ 95 % confidence interval 18-23 % ] ) had febrile seizures , 564 ( 52 % [ 49-55 % ] ) definite epileptic seizures , and 228 ( 21 % [ 19-23 % ] ) possible epilepsy . in the definite epilepsy group the proportions of males and females were similar , 25 % ( 21-28 % ) were younger than 15 years and 24 % ( 21-28 % ) were 60 years or older . the definite seizures were classified as cryptogenic in 62 % ( 58-66 % ) , remote symptomatic in 21 % ( 18-25 % ) , and acute symptomatic in 15 % ( 12-18 % ) . the aetiology of epilepsy was vascular disease in 15 % ( 12-18 % ) and tumour in 6 % ( 4-8 % ) . among older subjects the proportion with an identifiable cause was much higher : 49 % ( 41-58 % ) were due to vascular disease and 11 % ( 6-16 % ) to tumour . only 252 ( 45 % [ 41-49 % ] ) of the 564 patients with definite epileptic seizures were registered at the time of their first seizure . 52 % ( 48-56 % ) of the patients had partial or secondarily generalised seizures , and only 39 % ( 35-43 % ) seizures generalised from the outset . 
national general practice study of epilepsy : recurrence after a first seizure in the national general practice study of epilepsy 564 patients classified as having definite seizures have been followed up for 2-4 years . 67 % ( 95 % confidence interval 63-71 % ) had a recurrence within 12 months of the first seizure , and 78 % ( 74-81 % ) had a recurrence within 36 months . seizures associated with a neurological deficit presumed present at birth had a high rate of recurrence ( 100 % by 12 months ) , whereas seizures that occurred within 3 months of an acute insult to the brain , such as head injury or stroke , or in the context of an acute precipitant such as alcohol , carried a much lower risk of recurrence ( 40 % [ 29-51 % ] by 12 months ) . other factors affecting the risk of recurrence were age-the highest risk being for patients under the age of 16 ( 83 % [ 77-89 % ] by 36 months ) or over the age of 59 ( 83 % [ 76-90 % ] by 36 months-and type of first seizure-the risk of recurrence being much higher for patients with simple partial or complex partial seizures ( 94 % [ 90-99 % ] by 36 months ) than for those with generalised tonic clonic seizures ( 72 % [ 67-77 % ] by 36 months ) . 
acute hypervolaemic haemodilution to avoid blood transfusion during major surgery 16 patients underwent acute hypervolaemic haemodilution with dextran 40 and ringers lactate , to see whether this procedure could avoid preoperative blood transfusion . packed cell volume ( pcv ) and oxygen extraction decreased , and cardiac index and pulmonary wedge pressure increased , although end-systolic area was unchanged . pcv was not significantly different between patients who lost less than or greater than 20 % of their initial blood volume . this preoperative manoeuvre , which reduces loss of red blood cells , allowed major surgery to be completed safely without blood transfusion . 
infective dermatitis of jamaican children : a marker for htlv-i infection in jamaican children infective dermatitis is a chronic eczema associated with refractory nonvirulent staphylococcus aureus or beta-haemolytic streptococcus infection of the skin and nasal vestibule . 14 children between the ages of 2 and 17 years with typical infective dermatitis , attending the dermatology clinic at the university hospital of the west indies in jamaica , were tested for antibody to human t-lymphotropic virus type 1 ( htlv-1 ) . all were seropositive , whereas 11 children of similar age with atopic eczema were all negative . in 2 of 2 cases of infective dermatitis , the biological mother was htlv-1 seropositive . none of the 14 patients showed signs of adult t-cell leukaemia/lymphoma , though experience with previous cases of infective dermatitis indicates the possibility of such progression . 
angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors and anaphylactoid reactions to high-flux membrane dialysis in a retrospective study , 9 of 236 haemodialysis patients treated with high-flux polyacrylonitrile ' an 69 ' membranes were found to have had anaphylactoid reactions . treatment with angiotensin-converting-enzyme ( ace ) inhibitors had been recently started in all 9 affected patients ; only 5 of 227 unaffected patients had been treated with ace inhibitors , and anaphylactoid reactions disappeared after discontinuation of ace inhibitors . 
efficacy and morbidity of partial laryngectomy and postoperative radiation therapy . in recent years , we have seen increasing use of partial laryngectomies for larger lesions that were previously treated by total laryngectomy . the resultant closer margins have made postoperative radiation therapy an important adjuvant treatment to conservation laryngeal surgery . we review the university of california , los angeles , experience with combination partial laryngectomy and postoperative radiation therapy between 1973 and 1987 for treatment of carcinoma of the larynx . twenty-four such patients who underwent partial laryngectomies and postoperative radiation therapy are examined . techniques of treatment , complications , and the functional ability of the remaining larynx are discussed . the locoregional control rate at 5 years was 80 % . risk factors associated with an increased risk of recurrence were positive margins , vascular invasion , and extranodal spread . there were no major problems with postoperative wound healing or airway management during the radiation treatment . vocal and swallowing function were well preserved in most cases . we conclude that combination partial laryngectomy and radiation therapy permits preservation of laryngeal function without serious complications , and therefore is an effective treatment for selected patients with carcinoma of the larynx . 
computed tomography staging of the paranasal sinuses in chronic hyperplastic rhinosinusitis . in this study , the computed tomography scans of 100 patients with chronic hyperplastic rhinosinusitis were reviewed to establish a clinical staging system . fourteen percent of the patients were classified as stage i ( single-focus disease ) ; 36 % as stage ii ( multifocal disease responsive to conservative therapy ) ; 32 % as stage iii ( diffuse disease partially responsive to medication ) ; and 16 % as stage iv ( diffuse disease associated with bony changes and poorly responsive to conservative treatment ) . the incidence of recurrent or persistent disease ranged from 13 % for stage ii to 30 % for stage iv . stage i and iii patients had 13 % and 18 % recurrence rates , respectively . computed tomography staging is shown to be useful in outlining operative strategies and is a reliable prognosticator of the disease process . 
intraoral-extramaxillary sinus approach for ligation of the maxillary artery : an anatomic study with clinical correlates . surgical control of severe epistaxis is usually reserved for cases refractory to more conservative techniques . we present our experience with intraoral ligation of the maxillary artery as it courses through the buccal fat pad before it enters the pterygopalatine fossa and branches posterior to the maxilla . this technique has been found useful in the control of nasal hemorrhage as well as an adjunct to other surgical procedures , such as removal of benign and malignant neoplasms involving the maxilla and paranasal sinuses . this technique was used for ligation of the maxillary artery in 20 patients . the artery was readily identified in some cases , but required more extensive dissection in others ; therefore , an anatomic study in 18 preserved and fresh cadaver specimens was undertaken to investigate the variability of the maxillary artery in the region of the buccal fat pad . there appeared to be significant variation in the distance from the buccal mucosal incision site , as well as variation in the relationship to the pterygoid muscles . this relationship to the pterygoids explains the occasional difficulty in locating the artery for ligation . this technique represents a reasonable alternative to the more traditional transantral approach to ligation of the maxillary artery , as long as the surgeon understands the anatomy of the region , its variations , and where the artery may be located if not immediately apparent . no major complications have been experienced . 
indications of the carbon dioxide laser in tracheobronchial pathology of the infant and young child : 14 cases . fourteen children aged between 6 months and 7 years ( mean age = 3.5 years ) were treated by co2 broncholaser in the ent department of trousseau hospital . three groups of diagnostic indication were identified : 1 . granulomas treated after mucosal trauma ( tracheotomy , foreign body ) . 2 . granulomas due to pulmonary and/or lymph node tuberculosis . 3 . adhesions and stenosis secondary to neonatal ventilation . the operative and anesthetic technique is described in detail , together with any possible adverse events . the co2 broncholaser appears to be a technique of choice in this age group , in which the narrowness of the airways makes any endoscopic procedure difficult . the broncholaser allows the early treatment of obstructive tracheobronchial pathology with its risks of severe ventilatory sequelae . 
effects of menstrual phase and amenorrhea on exercise performance in runners . there are few well controlled studies in terms of subject selection , menstrual classification , and exercise protocol that have examined both maximal and submaximal exercise responses during different phases of the menstrual cycle in eumenorrheic runners and compared these runners to amenorrheic runners . thus , the purpose of this study was to measure selected physiological and metabolic responses to maximal and submaximal exercise during two phases of the menstrual cycle in eumenorrheic runners and amenorrheic runners . eight eumenorrheic runners ( 29.0 + / - 4.2 yr ) and eight amenorrheic runners ( 24.5 + / - 5.7 yr ) matched for physical , gynecological , and training characteristics were studied . the eumenorrheic runners performed one maximal and one submaximal ( 40 min at 80 % vo2max ) treadmill run during both the early follicular ( days 2-4 ) and midluteal ( 6-8 d from lh surge ) phases . the amenorrheic runners performed one maximal and one submaximal ( 40 min at 80 % vo2max ) treadmill run . cycle phases were documented by urinary luteinizing hormone and progesterone assays and by plasma estradiol and progesterone assays . no differences were observed in oxygen uptake , minute ventilation , heart rate , respiratory exchange ratio , rating of perceived exertion , time to fatigue ( maximal ) , and plasma lactate ( following the maximal and submaximal exercise tests ) between the follicular and luteal phases in the eumenorrheic runners and the amenorrheic runners . we conclude that neither menstrual phase ( follicular vs luteal ) nor menstrual status ( eumenorrheic vs amenorrheic ) alters or limits exercise performance in female athletes . 
a chronic granulomatous syndrome of unknown origin . a small clinically distinct group of patients with widespread tissue granulomata are described . the principal presenting symptoms are malaise , fever , and weight loss , although a wide variety of complaints are documented . pulmonary involvement is uncommon . the granulomata are noncaseating with a few multinucleate giant cells and some surrounding chronic inflammatory infiltrate . there is no evidence of an associated arteritis . the disease has a relapsing and remitting course and although it may require treatment with immunosuppressive drugs , particularly if the kidneys are involved , the prognosis is relatively good . we propose that this entity be called granulomatous syndrome of unknown origin . the characteristics that set this syndrome apart from the other granulomatous vasculitides are discussed . the current limited understanding of granuloma formation does not allow us to propose a definite etiology for this condition . it is emphasized that it is not helpful to encompass it within a label of sarcoidosis . first , it may only serve to confuse the doctor in assessing and treating this very particular group of patients . secondly , it may hinder future attempts to understand the different pathogenetic mechanisms underlying the various conditions in which granulomata may arise . 
pancreaticopleural fistula . report of 7 patients and review of the literature . pancreaticopleural fistula is an uncommon clinical condition . its presentation is often confusing because of the paucity of clues suggestive of pancreatic disease and the preponderance of pulmonary symptoms and signs . most patients are alcoholics but only one-half will have a clinical history of previous pancreatitis . pleural effusions are large , recurrent , and highly exudative in nature . many patients go through extensive pulmonary evaluation before the pancreas is identified as the site of primary pathology . an elevated serum amylase may be the first clue to the diagnosis . however , the key to the diagnosis is a dramatically elevated pleural fluid amylase . effusions in association with acute pancreatitis , esophageal perforation , and thoracic malignancy are important to consider in the differential diagnosis of an elevated pleural fluid amylase but are usually easy to exclude . computed tomography is excellent in defining pancreatic abnormalities and should be the first abdominal imaging study in suspected cases . endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography ( ercp ) is used as a diagnostic tool only in confusing cases . although no systematic study evaluates medical versus surgical therapy , we recommend an initial 2 to 4-week trial of medical therapy , including allowance of no oral intake , total parenteral nutrition , chest tube thoracostomy , and possibly a regimen of somatostatin or its analogs . the major complication in these patients is superinfection , which results in significant morbidity and mortality . failure of medical therapy should be considered failure of pleural effusion ( s ) to clear , recurrence after reinstatement of oral intake , or superinfection . for those patients who fail to benefit from medical therapy , surgery is indicated . 
multiple-pulse stimulation and dantrolene in malignant hyperthermia . a potentially fatal condition , yet preventable , malignant hyperthermia ( mh ) lacks a satisfactory noninvasive diagnostic test . studying the effects of intravenous dantrolene ( 3 mg/kg ) on electrically stimulated skeletal muscle , we found that this approach does not conclusively distinguish between normal humans and those susceptible to malignant hyperthermia but nonetheless yielded important information about the action of dantrolene in man and in mh . supramaximal single - and multiple-pulse stimulation of the common peroneal nerve produced stable torque responses of the dorsiflexor muscles ( monitored in vivo ) , which dantrolene suppressed . with the multiple-pulse stimulation ( 5-6 pulses ) this torque suppression was significantly less in mh-susceptible subjects than in control subjects . this distinction , also observed in mh swine , confirms this animal as a good model for human mh . that dantrolene 's effect in mh can be more completely reversed with high frequency stimulation is intriguing ; presumably , excitation-contraction coupling differs in mh and normal muscle . 
concurrence of malignant hyperthermia and congenital abnormalities . two children about to undergo corrective surgery were required to be investigated for malignant hyperthermia ( mh ) . these investigations arose out of concern by the anesthetist who had obtained a history of unexplained pyrexial reactions to anaesthetic in other members of the family . because over the years we have encountered several children with multiple congenital abnormalities who have been found to be susceptible to mh , we stressed the advisability of biopsying not only the patient but also the patient 's parents . positive responses for mh were obtained in the patients and in one of the parents on each occasion . the hypothesis of intrauterine mh with its pharmacogenetic propensity for heat production is considered as a possible etiological factor which may cause abnormalities of a congenital nature . 
isometric features of orthostatic tremor : an electromyographic analysis . a patient is described with " orthostatic " tremor . electromyography revealed tremor bursts of 15 hz in the lower extremities while standing and with isometric activation of the muscles , but the bursts disappeared with isotonic activation of muscles . similar tremor was recorded in the arms with isometric , but not isotonic activation . review of previously reported cases confirms these findings . the clinical and electrophysiologic features of this tremor distinguish it from other recognized forms of tremor . 
soleus-specific myopathy induced by passive stretching under local tetanus . twenty-four adult albino rats were injected with tetanus toxin into the right gastrocnemius muscle and then subjected to sustained dorsiflexion of the right ankle joint for 2 to 14 days . histologic examinations of the soleus after this procedure showed myopathic changes , characterized by variations in fiber diameters , myonecrosis with opaque fibers , interstitial fibrosis , and small groups of regenerated fibers . electron microscopy revealed derangement of t-tubules immediately adjacent to the sarcolemma in the early degenerative stage . the size and wet weight of soleus increased compared to that of the control side between 2 and 5 days post-tetanus . serum got , ldh , and creatine kinase ( ck ) levels were elevated especially in the early degenerative stages . peri - and endomysial fibrosis developed gradually from about 3 days post-tetanus . pathomechanisms inducing these changes were discussed . 
the anatomy and physiology of nerve injury . nerves have a structure of considerable complexity with features of special relevance to nerve injury and nerve regeneration . these include variations in the cross-sectional areas devoted to fascicular and epineurial tissue , the fascicular redistribution and mixing of different branch fibers brought about by fascicular plexuses , and the numbers of nerve fibers representing individual branches . the elasticity and tensile strength of nerve trunks and their capacity to resist traction deformation reside in the fascicular tissue , while the epineurium provides a protective cushion against compression . the microstructure of nerve trunks provides the basis for a classification of nerve injuries into five degrees of severity with partial and mixed types -- each with a clearly defined pathology and distinguishing clinical features . following a transection injury , changes occur in the severed axons , endoneurial tubes , fasciculi , and nerve trunk . the type of injury and the nature of these changes determine the outcome of axon regeneration . 
critical review of gangliosides and thyrotropin-releasing hormone in peripheral neuromuscular diseases . the lack of effective therapy for many of the chronic neuromuscular diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis , hereditary motor sensory neuropathy ( charcot-marie-tooth disease ) , spinocerebellar degenerations and idiopathic polyneuropathy has led to a search for substances that may stimulate peripheral nerve regeneration . two such agents that have been proposed are gangliosides ( mixed purified bovine brain gangliosides , cronassial ) and thyrotropin releasing factor ( trh ) . studies on both of these agents were initially reported with enthusiasm to be successful , but later double-blind controlled studies have failed to confirm these findings . this review provides critical analysis of the designs of studies of potentially effective agents in chronic neuromuscular diseases , and emphasizes the power of the placebo response , and the importance of designing placebos which are indistinguishable from the trial medication other than in the active effect . 
a controlled trial of early adjunctive treatment with corticosteroids for pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . california collaborative treatment group . background . pneumocystis carinii pneumonia remains a common cause of serious morbidity and mortality in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . the extensive lung injury that accompanies pneumocystis-associated respiratory failure and the reports of clinical benefit from the use of adjunctive corticosteroids provided the rationale for this prospective multicenter trial . methods . a total of 333 patients with aids and pneumocystis pneumonia received standard treatment and were randomly assigned to receive either corticosteroids ( beginning with the equivalent of 40 mg of prednisone twice daily ) or no additional therapy . the primary end points in this unblinded trial were the occurrence of respiratory failure ( hypoxemia ratio [ partial pressure of arterial oxygen divided by fraction of inspired oxygen ] less than 75 , intubation , or death ) , death , and dose-limiting toxicity of the initial standard therapy . results . of the patients with confirmed or presumed pneumocystis pneumonia ( n = 225 and n = 26 , respectively ) , those assigned to treatment with corticosteroids had a lower cumulative risk at 31 days of respiratory failure ( 0.14 vs. 0.30 , p = 0.004 ) and of death ( 0.11 vs. 0.23 , p = 0.009 ) , as well as a lower risk of death within 84 days ( 0.16 vs. 0.26 , p = 0.026 ) . the frequency of dose-limiting toxicity of the standard therapy was similar in the two treatment groups . intention-to-treat analyses of the entire cohort confirmed these findings . clinical benefit could not be demonstrated , however , for patients with mild disease ( hypoxemia ratio , greater than 350 ) , equivalent to a partial pressure of oxygen greater than 75 torr on room air . the patients assigned to corticosteroid treatment had an excess of localized herpetic lesions ( 26 percent vs. 15 percent , p = 0.04 ) but not of other infections or of neoplasms . conclusions . early adjunctive treatment with corticosteroids reduces the risks of respiratory failure and death in patients with aids and moderate-to-severe pneumocystis pneumonia . because the adverse effects are few , corticosteroids should be included as part of the initial treatment for persons with aids who have moderate-to-severe pneumocystis pneumonia . 
altered expression of the retinoblastoma gene product in human sarcomas . background . the retinoblastoma-susceptibility ( rb ) gene is a prototype tumor-suppressor gene originally isolated from patients with heritable retinoblastoma . this gene encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein whose expression is altered in several types of human tumors . methods . we studied the expression of the rb protein in 44 primary and 12 metastatic high-grade human sarcomas by means of immunohistochemical methods and western blotting . computerized image analysis was used to quantify the level of rb gene product in individual tumor cells . the expression of the rb gene was then correlated with clinical outcome in the patients with primary tumors . results . of the 44 patients with primary sarcomas , 13 ( 30 percent ) had tumors with normal , homogeneous expression of the rb protein in essentially all tumor cells . thirty-one patients with primary tumors ( 70 percent ) had altered rb expression ; in 18 ( 40 percent ) the rb protein was heterogeneously expressed , and in 13 ( 30 percent ) it was detected in fewer than 20 percent of the tumor cells . all 12 of the patients with metastatic sarcomas had altered expression of the rb protein . when the findings in the patients with primary tumors were correlated with clinical outcome , survival was found to be significantly increased in the patients whose tumors had homogeneous rb expression , as compared with those with either heterogeneous expression ( p = 0.026 ) or no expression ( p = 0.012 ) . conclusions . tumors in which the expression of rb gene product was decreased were more aggressive than tumors in which this protein was expressed by nearly all cells . the rb gene product may be an important prognostic variable in patients with these tumors . 
the effect of low-dose warfarin on the risk of stroke in patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation . the boston area anticoagulation trial for atrial fibrillation investigators background . nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation increases the risk of stroke , presumably from atrial thromboemboli . there is uncertainty about the efficacy and risks of long-term warfarin therapy to prevent stroke . methods . we conducted an unblinded , randomized , controlled trial of long-term , low-dose warfarin therapy ( target prothrombin-time ratio , 1.2 to 1.5 ) in patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation . the control group was not given warfarin but could choose to take aspirin . results . a total of 420 patients entered the trial ( 212 in the warfarin group and 208 in the control group ) and were followed for an average of 2.2 years . prothrombin times in the warfarin group were in the target range 83 percent of the time . only 10 percent of the patients assigned to receive warfarin discontinued the drug permanently . there were 2 strokes in the warfarin group ( incidence , 0.41 percent per year ) as compared with 13 strokes in the control group ( incidence , 2.98 percent per year ) , for a reduction of 86 percent in the risk of stroke ( warfarin : control incidence ratio = 0.14 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 0.04 to 0.49 ; p = 0.0022 ) . there were 37 deaths altogether . the death rate was markedly lower in the warfarin group than in the control group : 2.25 percent as compared with 5.97 percent per year , for an incidence ratio of 0.38 ( 95 percent confidence interval , 0.17 to 0.82 ; p = 0.005 ) . there was one fatal hemorrhage in each group . the frequency of bleeding events that led to hospitalization or transfusion was essentially the same in both groups . the warfarin group had a higher rate of minor hemorrhage than the control group ( 38 vs. 21 patients ) . conclusions . long-term low-dose warfarin therapy is highly effective in preventing stroke in patients with non-rheumatic atrial fibrillation , and can be quite safe with careful monitoring . 
deficiencies of coagulation-inhibiting and fibrinolytic proteins in outpatients with deep-vein thrombosis background . isolated deficiencies of antithrombin iii , protein c , protein s , and plasminogen have been implicated as a cause of deep-vein thrombosis . it is assumed that patients with recurrent , familial , or juvenile thrombosis are very likely to have such a deficiency . methods . we studied the prevalence of isolated deficiencies of these proteins in 277 consecutive outpatients with venographically proved acute deep-vein thrombosis , as compared with 138 age-matched and sex-matched controls without deep-vein thrombosis , and calculated the positive predictive value of a history of recurrent , familial , or juvenile venous thromboembolism for the presence of such a deficiency . results . the overall prevalence of deficiencies of any of these proteins in the patients with venous thrombosis was 8.3 percent ( 23 of 277 patients ) ( 95 percent confidence interval , 5.4 to 12.4 ) , as compared with 2.2 percent in the controls ( 3 of 138 subjects ) ( 95 percent confidence interval , 0.5 to 6.1 ; p less than 0.05 for the comparison between groups ) . the positive predictive values for the presence of an isolated protein deficiency in patients with recurrent , familial , or juvenile deep-vein thrombosis , defined as the proportion of patients with the clinical finding who had a deficiency of one or more of the proteins , were 9 , 16 , and 12 percent , respectively . conclusions . the cause of acute venous thrombosis in most outpatients ( 91.7 percent ) can not be explained by abnormalities of coagulation-inhibiting and fibrinolytic proteins . the information obtained from the medical history concerning recurrent or familial venous thrombosis or the onset of the disease at a young age is not useful for the identification of patients with protein deficiencies . 
a newly recognized fastidious gram-negative pathogen as a cause of fever and bacteremia background . we identified a motile , curved , gram-negative bacillus as the cause of persistent fever and bacteremia in two patients with symptomatic human immunodeficiency virus infection . the same organism was subsequently recovered from a bone marrow-transplant recipient with septicemia and from two immunocompetent persons with week-long febrile illnesses . all the patients recovered after antimicrobial therapy . methods and results . primary cultures of blood processed by centrifugation after blood-cell lysis yielded adherent , white , iridescent , morphologically heterogeneous colonies in 5 to 15 days . subcultures grew in four days on chocolate , charcoal-yeast extract , or blood agar . the organisms stained weakly with safranin and were not acid-fast . fluorescent-antibody tests for legionella and francisella were negative . biochemical reactivity was minimal and difficult to ascertain . agar-dilution testing revealed in vitro susceptibility to most antimicrobial agents tested . the cellular fatty acid composition of the isolates was similar , resembling that of rochalimaea quintana or brucella species , but not helicobacter pylori or species of campylobacter or legionella . as resolved by gel electrophoresis , cell-membrane preparations of all isolates contained similar proteins , with patterns that differed from that of r. quintana . patterns of digestion of dna from all isolates by ecorv restriction endonuclease were virtually identical and also differed from that of r. quintana . on immunodiffusion , serum from one convalescent patient produced a line of identity with sonicates of all five isolates . conclusions . this pathogen may have been unidentified until now because of its slow growth , broad susceptibility to antimicrobial agents , and possible requirement of blood-cell lysis for recovery in culture . it should be sought as a cause of unexplained fever , especially in persons with defective cell-mediated immunity . 
seizures and other neurologic sequelae of bacterial meningitis in children . background . although the mortality rate among children with bacterial meningitis has decreased dramatically in recent decades , some patients are left with neurologic sequelae . it has not been clearly established which features of the acute illness predict the chronic neurologic sequelae , including late seizures or epilepsy . methods . we followed 185 infants and children prospectively during and after acute bacterial meningitis . the mean duration of follow-up was 8.9 years ( range , 0.1 to 15.5 ) . during the first six years standard neurologic examinations were performed ; telephone interviews were conducted thereafter . results . one month after meningitis , 69 children ( 37 percent ) had neurologic abnormalities . many of these signs resolved within a year , leaving only 26 children ( 14 percent ) with persistent deficits : 18 ( 10 percent ) had only sensorineural hearing loss , and 8 ( 4 percent ) had multiple neurologic deficits . thirteen children ( 7 percent ) had one or more late seizures not associated with fever . the presence of persistent neurologic deficits indicative of cerebral injury was the only independent predictor of late afebrile seizures ( p less than 0.001 ) . conclusions . after bacterial meningitis only children with permanent neurologic deficits are at high risk for epilepsy . those with normal examinations after the acute illness have an excellent change of escaping serious neurologic sequelae , including epilepsy . 
the sequelae of haemophilus influenzae meningitis in school-age children . background . previous data on the consequences of haemophilus influenzae type b meningitis for school-age children have been inconsistent , and much of the information on risk factors has been inconclusive . the present study was designed to evaluate the sequelae of this disease with a protocol for the comprehensive assessment of neuropsychological function . methods . ninety-seven school-age children ( mean age , 9.6 years ) , each of whom had a school-age sibling , were recruited from a survey of the medical records of 519 children treated for h. influenzae type b meningitis between 1972 and 1984 ( at a mean age of 17 months ) at the children 's hospitals of toronto , ottawa , and montreal . of the 97 children , 41 had had an acute neurologic complication . sequelae were assessed by comparing the index children with their nearest siblings on the basis of standardized measures of cognitive , academic , and behavioral status . results . only 14 children ( 14 percent ) had persisting neurologic sequelae : sensorineural hearing loss in 11 ( unilateral in 6 and bilateral in 5 ) , seizure disorder in 2 , and hemiplegia and mental retardation in 1 . although the total sample of index children scored slightly below the siblings in reading ability , the 56 children without acute-phase neurologic complications ( 58 percent ) were indistinguishable from their siblings on all measures . the differences between the groups were small even for the 41 pairs in which the index child had had an acute neurologic complication ( mean full-scale iq , 102 for the index children vs. 109 for the siblings ) . sequelae were also associated with lower socioeconomic status and a lower ratio of glucose in cerebrospinal fluid to that in blood at the time of the meningitis . behavioral problems were more prominent in index boys than index girls and in those who were older at the time of testing , but sex and age were not related to cognitive or academic sequelae . conclusions . we find a favorable prognosis for the majority of children who are treated for meningitis caused by h. influenzae type b. 
in vivo biological effects of stereotactic radiosurgery : a primate model . single-fraction , closed skull , small-volume irradiation ( radiosurgery ) of intact intracranial structures requires accurate knowledge of radiation tolerance . we have developed a baboon model to assess the in vivo destructive radiobiological effects of stereotactic radiosurgery . three baboons received a single-fraction , 150-gy lesion of the caudate nucleus , the thalamus , or the pons using the 8-mm diameter collimator of the gamma unit . serial standard neurodiagnostic tests ( neurological examination , computed tomographic scan , magnetic resonance imaging , stable xenon-enhanced computed tomographic scan of cerebral blood flow , somatosensory and brain stem evoked potentials , and myelin basic protein levels of cerebrospinal fluid ) were compared with preoperative studies . magnetic resonance imaging revealed the development of a lesion at the target site between 45 and 60 days after irradiation . deterioration of the brain stem evoked potentials preceded imaging changes when the lesion encroached on auditory pathways . myelin basic protein levels increased subsequent to imaging changes . postmortem neuropathological examination confirmed a well-demarcated radionecrosis of the target volume . the baboon model appears to be an excellent method to study the in vivo biological effects of radiosurgery . 
functional results of facial nerve suture after removal of acoustic neurinoma : analysis of 25 cases . the facial nerve is sometimes severed during the removal of acoustic neurinomas , either intentionally to ensure complete removal , or unintentionally because of difficulties in identification . in such cases we have , if possible , sutured the nerve stumps microsurgically , either end to end or by use of an intervening nerve graft . we analyzed the outcome of 25 instances of facial nerve suturing in a series of 219 patients operated on for acoustic neurinoma from 1979 to 1987 . the first signs of recovery appeared at an average of 12 months , and there was continued improvement for several years . recovery was graded from 1 to 6 . the anastomosis was successful in 24 of the 25 sutured nerves , in that at least some facial movement and tone were restored ( grade 5 or higher ) . in 11 of the 25 cases , facial appearance at rest and with movement was moderately good ( grade 2 or 3 ) . a grade 1 result , with no perceivable facial dysfunction , was never achieved . typically , oral muscles showed the most improvement and frontal muscles the least . facial appearance was better at rest than with movement , which was always complicated by some degree of synkinesis . closure of the eye was so good in 13 of the 25 cases that neither tarsorrhaphy nor an eyelid spring was necessary . when the facial nerve is severed , intraoperative suture is recommended , because it provides a chance for moderately good restoration of facial appearance . 
extracranial repair of cerebrospinal fluid fistulas : technique and results in 37 patients . although neurosurgeons have traditionally preferred intracranial repair for the management of cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) fistulas , this approach is associated with the complications of a craniotomy , anosmia , and a high incidence of recurrent fistulas . extracranial repair , on the other hand , produces no central nervous system morbidity , preserves olfaction , and is associated with a low incidence of recurrence . although there have been several reports of extracranial repair of csf fistulas by otorhinolaryngologists , this approach has received scant mention in the neurosurgical literature . we report here our experience with 37 patients with csf rhinorrhea or otorrhea who underwent extracranial repair . the etiology of the fistula was postoperative in 22 , traumatic in 6 , and spontaneous in 9 . the fistulas were repaired using one of four techniques : external ethmoid-sphenoid in 18 patients , transmastoid in 9 , transseptosphenoid in 7 , and osteoplastic frontal sinusotomy in 3 . in 32 of the 37 patients ( 86 % ) the fistulas were successfully repaired with the initial procedure . of the 5 patients requiring a second operation , the fistula was successfully closed in 4 for an overall success rate of 97 % . complications were few and consisted of a transient facial paresis in a patient undergoing transmastoid repair and one death from meningitis . the authors conclude that because of low morbidity and mortality and a high success rate in closing fistulas , extracranial repair is the preferred technique for the operative management of csf rhinorrhea and otorrhea . 
whither short-course chemotherapy for tuberculous meningitis ? short-course chemotherapy is well established for the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis but not for extrapulmonary disease . we present a series of 35 cases in which chemotherapy for tuberculous meningitis was given for a period of less than 2 years . short-term therapy was associated with recrudescence of tuberculous meningitis and , in some cases , with the development of deep cerebral infarcts and permanent neurological deficits . we think short-term chemotherapy for tuberculosis of the central nervous system is inadequate . 
mild head injury classification . inconsistencies across studies concerning outcome after mild head injury may reflect differences in the diagnostic criteria used for selection of patients . consequently , we compared the neurobehavioral outcome in three groups of consecutively hospitalized patients ( aged 16 to 50 years ) who sustained a closed head injury ( chi ) and had a glasgow coma scale ( gcs ) score in the 9 to 15 range . these groups included patients with uncomplicated chi with mild impairment of consciousness as reflected by a gcs score in the 13 to 15 range ( n = 78 ) , patients with initially mild impairment of consciousness complicated by brain lesion or depressed skull fracture ( n = 77 ) , and patients with moderate chi ( n = 60 ) . tests of memory , information processing , and verbal fluency were administered within 1 to 3 months after injury , and the glasgow outcome scale was completed at 6 months . neurobehavioral functioning was impaired in the groups with complicated mild chi and moderate chi as compared to the group with uncomplicated mild chi . although moderate chi produced longer durations of impaired consciousness and posttraumatic amnesia than complicated mild head injury , patients in these groups did not differ in neurobehavioral performance . global outcome at 6 months was better in the patients with mild chi than in patients with complicated mild and moderate injuries . analysis of the various complications of mild chi revealed that the presence of an intracranial lesion was related to more severe neurobehavioral sequelae than injuries complicated by a depressed fracture . 
diffuse axonal injury : analysis of 100 patients with radiological signs . one hundred patients with head injuries who showed diffuse axonal injury on computed tomographic scans are reported . evaluation of the glasgow coma score , pupillary signs , and computed tomographic findings on admission led to an improved ability to forecast outcomes . our relatively good results as compared with other series , can be explained by the high proportion of children and by the liberal use of computed tomography to evaluate head injuries , thus revealing that concussion may sometimes be regarded as an early form of diffuse axonal injury . 
chronic lyme disease with an expansive granulomatous lesion in the cerebellopontine angle . expansive granulomatous lesions in the posterior cranial fossa are rare and have not been reported in conjunction with lyme disease . we report a patient with verified borrelia burgdorferi infection who developed a tumor in the cerebellopontine angle . rapid growth of the tumor led to signs of cerebral compression and to hydrocephalus . surgical intervention was required despite florid meningitis . the histological examination showed inflammatory , nonspecific granulation tissue . the origin of this tissue is almost certainly causally related to the b. burgdorferi infection . signs of inflammation resolved rapidly after subtotal resection . the clinical , radiological , and biochemical course is documented . this is the first report of an expansive cerebral lesion in the chronic phase of lyme disease . 
cyst of the choroid plexus in the lateral ventricle : case report and review of the literature . we report an intraventricular cyst in a 2-year-old boy who had myoclonic jerks of the extremities . the cyst had no communication with the ventricular system or subarachnoid space . total removal of the cyst adhering to the choroid plexus was accomplished . the glial cyst wall was lined in part by flattened or cuboidal epithelium . the preoperative and postoperative computed tomographic scans and magnetic resonance images are presented , and congenital benign cysts in the lateral ventricle are reviewed and discussed . 
traumatic aneurysm of the superior cerebellar artery : case report and review of the literature . less than 10 % of the 250 reported cases of traumatic intracranial aneurysms have involved the posterior circulation . traumatic aneurysms of the superior cerebellar artery are extremely rare , with only three cases previously reported . this is the first report of a traumatic superior cerebellar artery aneurysm in which the diagnosis was suggested by computed tomographic scan . the potential for a good outcome suggests the value of early angiography when the history and diagnostic imaging studies suggest the possibility of a traumatic aneurysm . 
intradural herniation of a thoracic disc presenting as flaccid paraplegia : case report . a case of intradural herniation of a thoracic disc in a patient with a flaccid paraplegia is described . intradural herniation of a thoracic disc is considered a rare event . a review of the relevant patient literature revealed 14 other reports involving 28 patients . no other report has described a patient with an intradural thoracic disc herniation who developed a flaccid paraplegia . 
an unusual complication of silastic dural substitute : case report . a case is presented in which a patient developed an unusual complication after the use of silastic dural substitute . in 1983 , the patient underwent removal of a meningioma with the involved dura . five years later , he developed around the graft material a very thick connective tissue capsule , which simulated a recurrent meningioma clinically and radiologically . 
serial ultrasonographic evaluation of neonatal vein of galen malformations to assess the efficacy of interventional neuroradiological procedures . two-dimensional echocardiography complemented with color-flow imaging and pulsed doppler ultrasound was used to evaluate one fetus and five neonates with a vein of galen malformation who had severe high-output congestive heart failure and cranial bruits at birth . intracranial blood flow through the vein of galen malformations , cardiac status , and direction of aortic blood flow were assessed before and after staged interventional neuroradiological treatment with transarterial and transvenous embolization procedures . color-flow imaging in each infant displayed the major vascular anatomy including feeding vessels and the patterns of filling of the vein of galen malformations . pulsed doppler ultrasound performed on the descending aorta above the diaphragm showed the degree of diastolic flow reversal indicative of runoff into the vein of galen malformations . a reduction in blood flow through the vein of galen malformation was seen on color-flow imaging in four patients treated successfully by embolic procedures . the ratio of diastolic retrograde flow velocity in the descending aorta to systolic antegrade velocity decreased from 0.51 + / - 0.15 ( mean + / - standard deviation ) to 0.15 + / - 0.20 ( p less than 0.05 ) . color-flow imaging and pulsed doppler ultrasonography provided anatomical and pathophysiological information regarding cardiac hemodynamics and intracranial blood flow ; with the patient 's clinical status , these methods provided a reliable , noninvasive means to evaluate the effectiveness of therapy and the need for further treatment in neonates with vein of galen malformations . 
xenon-enhanced computed tomographic measurement of cerebral blood flow in patients with chronic subdural hematomas . we compared clinical symptoms with extent of brain shift on computed tomographic ( ct ) scans and quantitative and three-dimensional measurements of cerebral blood flow ( cbf ) on xenon-enhanced ct scans in 10 patients with chronic subdural hematomas . five patients had only headache and minimal or no brain shift on a ct scan . the other five had hemiparesis and/or mental disturbance in addition to headache and moderate or severe brain shift on a ct scan . the mean hemispheric cbf decreased about 7 % in patients with headache and about 35 % in patients with hemiparesis and/or mental disturbance . it decreased also on the side without the hematoma . the cbf reduction was always more pronounced in the putamen and thalamus than in the cortex . on the contrary , the cortex cbf was mostly preserved or even elevated in both groups of patients . we speculate that cbf reduction in patients with a chronic subdural hematoma occurs initially in central cerebral areas like the basal ganglia and thalamus , and then extends to the entire hemisphere including the cortex as brain compression and displacement progress . central cerebral area involvement might be more responsible for clinical symptoms than the cortex . 
hypertension as a risk factor for epilepsy after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and surgery . a prospective , consecutive series of 307 patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage ranging from grades 1 to v according to the classification of hunt and hess on admission were evaluated to determine the incidence of epilepsy 1 to 3 years ( mean , 1.4 years ) after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) and surgery . sixty-three patients had died and one patient was lost to follow-up . twenty-nine patients developed epileptic seizures after the sah and surgery . the mean time from the sah to epileptic seizure varied from 0 days ( day of the sah ) to 2 years ( mean , 6.7 months ) . the seizures were classified as focal in 9 patients ( 31 % ) and as generalized in 20 patients ( 69 % ) . all patients received anticonvulsant medication after more than one seizure . the risk factors for development of posthemorrhagic/postoperative epilepsy were , in order of importance : a history of hypertension ; an infarct on late computed tomographic scan ; and the duration of coma after the ictus . of the 85 patients with histories of hypertension , 17 ( 20.0 % ) developed epilepsy . only 12 ( 5.4 % ) of the 222 nonhypertensive patients developed epileptic seizures . the difference between the groups was significant ( p = 0.0001 ) . computed tomographic scans were undertaken in 237 patients 1 to 3 years ( mean , 1.4 years ) after the sah and surgery . postoperative epilepsy was significantly associated with infarcts visualized on computed tomographic scan ( p = 0.0005 ) . 
myelopathy presenting decades after surgery for congenital cervical cutaneous lesions . we report on two patients in whom cervical myelopathy developed decades after they had undergone surgery for congenital cervical cutaneous lesions . preoperative magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated dorsal tethering and cavitation of the cervical cord in the area of the previous surgery and was helpful in decision making regarding surgical exploration and in planning for it . we stress the importance of long-term follow-up by both clinical examination and magnetic resonance imaging in children who have been operated on for cervical cutaneous masses that may have central connections . 
paraplegia after a routine lumbar laminectomy : report of a rare complication and successful management . arachnoid cysts of the spinal canal are relatively common lesions that may be either intra - or extradural . these cysts are usually asymptomatic but may produce symptoms by compressing the spinal cord or nerve roots . we report a case in which an intradural thoracic arachnoid cyst became symptomatic after a routine decompressive lumbar laminectomy for spinal stenosis . myelography revealed no abnormality , although magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography after myelography demonstrated a mass within the posterior aspect of the thoracic spinal canal associated with anterior displacement and compression of the spinal cord . a change in the flow dynamics of the cerebrospinal fluid probably allowed the development of spinal cord compression due to one of the following : expansion of the cyst , decreased cerebrospinal fluid buffer between the cord and the cyst , or epidural venous engorgement . a concomitant and more cephalad lesion such as an arachnoid cyst should be considered when myelopathic complications arise after lumbar surgery . magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography after myelography are useful to demonstrate the additional pathological processes . 
pituitary hemorrhage into a rathke 's cleft cyst this report describes a case of symptomatic pituitary hemorrhage into a rathke 's cleft cyst in a 25-year-old woman . the literature on pituitary hemorrhage in nonadenomatous sellar tumors is reviewed . 
an operative complication in a patient with a true posterior communicating artery aneurysm : case report and review of the literature . intraoperative oculomotor nerve injury in a patient with a true posterior communicating artery aneurysm is reported in detail . a comparison of internal carotid artery aneurysms at the posterior communicating artery junction with true posterior communicating artery aneurysms deserves special attention , because the vascular relationships of the aneurysm are more complex . a clip along the internal carotid artery does not occlude blood flow to the aneurysm , and the aneurysmal neck and the distal posterior communicating artery are closer to the oculomotor nerve . this is the 27th reported case of a true posterior communicating artery aneurysm . the incidence of true posterior communicating artery aneurysms ranges from 0.1 to 2.8 % of all aneurysm patients . such aneurysms constitute 4.6 and 11 % of so-called posterior communicating aneurysms in two series . difficulty associated with a preoperative diagnosis has been documented in at least 4 cases . an awareness of this rare aneurysm is stressed in order to avoid operative complications . 
aspiration in bilateral stroke patients . seventy patients with bilateral strokes underwent neurologic and videofluoroscopic barium swallowing examinations ; 34 ( 48.6 % ) aspirated . patients with aspiration were more likely to have posterior circulation strokes , abnormal cough , abnormal gag , and dysphonia . however , patients likely to aspirate can be identified best by the presence of an abnormal voluntary cough , an abnormal gag reflex , or both . the prediction of patients at risk for aspiration was not improved by additional clinical information ( ie , presence of dysphonia or bilateral neurologic signs ) . 
prolonged confusion following convulsions due to generalized nonconvulsive status epilepticus . among patients with a prolonged confusional state after convulsive seizure , we diagnosed 8 cases as generalized nonconvulsive status epilepticus . six had a history of seizures , and 2 had new onset . the convulsive seizures were generalized in 6 and focal in two . the postictal confusion lasted up to 36 hours in the most prolonged case , and a delayed response to anticonvulsant medications occurred in all cases . the clinical symptoms ranged from mild confusion to coma . psychiatric manifestations or automatisms were rare . the presumed etiology was due to diverse causes , but a withdrawal state was the most common . eeg demonstrated continuous or nearly continuous generalized ictal discharges of variable morphology . these cases call attention to the fact that some prolonged confusional states following convulsive seizures are in fact due to persistent seizure activity that can be diagnosed by eeg . 
verbal memory impairment correlates with hippocampal pyramidal cell density . thirty-five patients with medically refractory epilepsy localized to the temporal lobe ( 18 left , 17 right ) completed the verbal selective reminding test before surgery . verbal memory impairments existed before surgery regardless of the lateralization of the seizure focus , but patients with left temporal seizure foci were significantly more impaired . after surgical removal of the mesial temporal lobe structures , 2 blinded observers established volumetric cell densities for hippocampal subfields ca1 , ca2 , ca3 , the hilar area , and the granule cell layer of the area dentata . statistically significant correlations existed between presurgical memory impairment and cell counts ( in ca3 and the hilar area , only ) for patients with left temporal seizure foci . these findings support the hippocampal model of memory and complement prior research documenting the memory impairments present after surgical removal of the mesial temporal structures . 
hemiparkinsonism-hemiatrophy syndrome : clinical and neuroradiologic features . we evaluated 11 patients with hemiparkinson-hemiatrophy syndrome , 6 with body and contralateral cerebral hemispheric hemiatrophy , 4 with only body hemiatrophy , and 1 with just brain hemiatrophy . the mean age of symptom onset was 38.1 years ( range , 18 to 54 ) with 5.2 + / - 3.1 ( mean + / - sd ) years of illness until the last follow-up visit . the presenting symptom was unilateral tremor in 6 patients , hand dystonia in 2 , bradykinesia in 2 , and abnormal gait in 1 patient . three patients had a good response to levodopa , 4 had moderate response , and 2 patients had a poor response . during a mean follow-up period of 1.7 years ( range , 4 months to 5 years ) , the hoehn and yahr score changed in only 3 patients : 2 gained 1.5 points and 1 gained 3 points over 2.5 years . we discuss the association between hemiparkinsonism-body hemiatrophy and contralateral hemispheric hemiatrophy , and raise the possibility of early childhood brain insult with delayed-onset parkinsonism . 
catecholaminergic systems in the medulla oblongata in parkinsonian syndromes : a quantitative immunohistochemical study in parkinson 's disease , progressive supranuclear palsy , and striatonigral degeneration . we investigated tyrosine-hydroxylase ( th ) - immunoreactive neurons in the medulla oblongata corresponding to the a1 and a2 cell groups in autopsy tissue of patients with parkinson 's disease ( pd ) ( n = 3 ) , progressive supranuclear palsy ( psp ) ( n = 3 ) , striatonigral degeneration ( snd ) ( n = 2 ) , and in controls ( n = 4 ) . the estimated total number of th-positive neurons in the a1 and the a2 regions was normal in pd and psp patients . the sparing of medullary catecholaminergic cells in pd and psp may be related to their minor degree of melanization and the possibility that intermediate compounds associated with the oxidative catabolism of norepinephrine and epinephrine may be less cytotoxic than those generated by degradation of dopamine . patients with snd showed a marked loss of th-immunoreactive cells in the a1 and the a2 groups , which may contribute to the impairment of vasomotor control characteristic of the disease . 
kearns-sayre syndrome presenting as renal tubular acidosis . renal tubular acidosis and tetany were the 1st manifestations of kearns-sayre syndrome in a 5-year-old child . subsequently , he developed progressive external ophthalmoplegia , ptosis , retinopathy , heart block , and endocrinopathy . there was a 7.5-kb deletion of mitochondrial dna documented in muscle , kidney , skin fibroblasts , and leukocytes , providing evidence for a multisystem mitochondrial cytopathy . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome ( l-tryptophan-associated neuromyopathy ) . histopathologic study of skeletal muscle biopsy in a patient with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome following l-tryptophan use showed prominent lymphocytic perineuritis , neuritis , and perimysial fasciitis . the presence of perineuritis and neuritis provides a histopathologic basis for clinical features of neuropathy in eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and occurred in conjunction with a fasciitis or interstitial myositis that was predominantly perimysial and focally endomysial . 
observer variability in the scoring of colpophotographs . colposcopy and cervicography are accepted tools for assessing the cervix for an atypical transformation zone . we studied the validity of the colpophotograph as a measurement tool by determining the agreement of experienced colposcopists using colpophotographs of 50 women . interobserver agreement was generally fair to good ( kappa greater than or equal to 0.40 ) for the presence of the squamocolumnar junction and the area of ectopia but it was poor ( kappa less than 0.40 ) for the area , border , and color characteristics of an atypical transformation zone . intra-observer agreement was fair to good for the color characteristics of an atypical transformation zone , but it was poor for the area and border characteristics . we conclude that observer agreement studies should play a role in the validation of methods used in the visual diagnosis of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia . considerable lack of agreement in reporting cytologic findings is a well-known problem , and lack of agreement might be an even bigger problem in reporting colposcopic findings . 
maternal serum screening for aneuploid pregnancy by alpha-fetoprotein , hcg , and unconjugated estriol . a number of serum screening protocols are either currently in use or proposed to identify pregnant women under 35 years of age who are at increased risk for a down syndrome fetus . it has been suggested that these same screening methods be applied to gravidas over 35 years of age to identify those women who should be offered amniocentesis . to evaluate the efficacy of screening for detection of aneuploid pregnancy in this age group , the serum samples of 34 women who underwent amniocentesis and who had confirmed fetal aneuploidy were assayed for alpha-fetoprotein ( afp ) , hcg , and unconjugated estriol ( e3 ) . these concentrations were compared with those of 85 women with known euploid pregnancy who underwent amniocentesis for advanced maternal age . the mean multiple of the median ( mom ) for each of the three markers was significantly different from control values in cases of trisomy 21 ( afp median mom = 0.82 ; unconjugated e3 median mom = 0.77 ; and hcg median mom = 1.89 ) . these differences were not found when other aneuploidies were considered . likelihood ratios were calculated for cases and controls and examined for their ability to predict the need for amniocentesis , based on currently recommended risk levels . there was a significant difference between the mean likelihood ratio for cases of trisomy 21 compared with that of controls ( mean likelihood ratio = 13.48 ) ; there was no significant difference for other aneuploidies ( mean likelihood ratio = 1.08 ) . of the 16 cases of trisomy 21 analyzed , four would not have been diagnosed antenatally if recommendation against amniocentesis had been made based on each woman 's individual age-specific risk as modified by her likelihood ratio . 
calculated risk of chromosomal abnormalities in twin gestations . genetic counseling concerning the risks of chromosomal abnormalities in twin gestations can be difficult ; the risk of amniocentesis is weighed against that of chromosomal abnormalities in either one or both of the twins . because most twins are dizygotic ( each with a risk a priori of aneuploidy ) , the chance that one of the fetuses is affected is greater than would be expected for a singleton . only three possibilities would result in either one or both twin 's being affected : 1 ) dizygotic twins with one fetus affected , 2 ) dizygotic twins with both fetuses affected , and 3 ) monozygotic twins with both fetuses affected . using existing tables of estimated risks of chromosomal abnormalities in singleton gestations and mathematically derived formulas , we created tables defining the age-related risks of chromosomal abnormalities in twin gestations . according to these tables , a patient at 33 years of age with a twin gestation has a risk of down syndrome in at least one of her twins equivalent to that of a 35-year-old with a singleton . prenatal genetic testing should be considered for women with twins at a younger age than the traditional 35 . 
does indomethacin alter the hemodynamic response to magnesium sulfate infusion and hemorrhage in gravid ewes ? the purpose of this study was to determine whether indomethacin alters the maternal and fetal hemodynamic response to magnesium sulfate ( mgso4 ) infusion and hemorrhage in gravid ewes . we studied seven chronically instrumented animals between 0.8 and 0.9 of timed gestation . the experimental sequence included : 1 ) at time 0 , indomethacin , 2 mg/kg , or vehicle only intravenously ( iv ) over 5 minutes ; 2 ) at 60 minutes , mgso4 4 g iv over 5 minutes ; 3 ) at 65 minutes , mgso4 infusion at 4 g/hour ; 4 ) at 150 minutes , maternal hemorrhage , 20 ml/kg , over 60 minutes ; and 5 ) at 215 minutes , reinfusion of maternal blood over 60 minutes . each animal was studied with and without indomethacin . indomethacin , but not vehicle only , transiently increased maternal and fetal mean arterial pressure ( map ) , decreased maternal and fetal heart rate , and decreased maternal cardiac output . magnesium sulfate significantly decreased uterine vascular resistance and increased uterine blood flow both with and without indomethacin . hemorrhage significantly decreased maternal map , heart rate , cardiac output , and uterine blood flow in both groups . the magnitude of each change was similar between the groups . for example , at the end of hemorrhage , maternal map was 36 + / - 7 % below baseline ( p = .0001 ) with indomethacin and 41 + / - 2 % below baseline ( p = .0001 ) in the vehicle-only group ( p = not significant between groups ) . hemorrhage significantly decreased fetal heart rate , ph , and po2 , and increased fetal map and pco2 in both groups . we conclude that indomethacin did not alter the maternal or fetal hemodynamic response to mgso4 infusion and hemorrhage in gravid ewes . 
persistent ectopic pregnancy following laparoscopic linear salpingostomy . as the surgical approach for ectopic pregnancies evolves from radical to conservative procedures , the potential hazard of persistent ectopic pregnancy has become increasingly pertinent . from september 1 , 1986 to august 31 , 1989 , 11 women with persistent ectopic pregnancy after laparoscopic salpingostomy were diagnosed and treated at yale-new haven hospital . persistent ectopic pregnancy was suspected in nine cases because of symptoms and in two because of plateauing beta-hcg titers . ten of 11 patients underwent repeat surgery . eight had partial or complete salpingectomy of the involved ipsilateral tube , two had repeat salpingostomies , and one was treated with methotrexate . when the 11 women with persistent ectopic pregnancies were compared with 70 patients treated successfully by laparoscopic salpingostomy using multivariate stepwise logistic regression , smaller size of the ectopic ( p less than .01 ) and fewer days of amenorrhea ( p less than .05 ) predicted persistent ectopic pregnancy after laparoscopic salpingostomy . based upon our experience , we believe that earlier-treated ectopic pregnancies ( ie , fewer than 42 days of amenorrhea ) and/or smaller ectopics ( ie , 2.0 cm or less in diameter ) require treatment with particular caution and close postoperative surveillance . 
influence of the menstrual cycle on systemic diseases . physiological changes associated with the menstrual cycle influence the clinical course of some diseases such as bronchial asthma , allergies , anaphylaxis , epilepsy , migraine , dermatoses , and porphyria . hormonal manipulation can be beneficial in some patients . 
amenorrhea . amenorrhea , the lack of menstruation , is a gynecologic disorder that may arise from a variety of causes . if a logical and orderly schema is followed , the correct diagnosis and appropriate management plan can be formulated . 
vaginal bleeding in childhood and adolescence . vaginal bleeding in early childhood , regardless of its duration and quantity , is always of clinical importance . this article discusses the examination of the child and adolescent and reviews the various causes of vaginal bleeding in these patient groups . 
pelvic pain and infections . infectious etiologies of both acute and chronic pelvic pain are common and may involve multiple organ systems . in the evaluation of the acute pain , it is important to remember that rapidity of diagnosis is important because of the possibility of significant morbidity and even death if a condition is not attended to rapidly . in recent years , laparoscopic evaluation of the pelvis has provided a better understanding of the pathophysiology of some of these infections , as well as possible therapeutic maneuvers . the evaluation of chronic pelvic pain requires a thorough attempt at careful diagnosis with minds open to the possibility that other organ systems besides the genital tract may be involved . laparoscopy also may be an important diagnostic and therapeutic tool in the evaluation of the sequelae of pelvic inflammation leading to chronic pelvic pain . all therapeutic modalities that are instituted on the basis of the diagnostic evaluation must take into consideration that a strong emotional component is generally associated with chronic pelvic pain . such components must be addressed in order to achieve the best possible results for the patient . 
premenstrual syndrome : an update for the clinician . premenstrual syndrome is a complex disorder in which a variety of symptoms can occur in the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle . the symptoms should occur each cycle only from the time near ovulation to soon after the onset of menses . there should be at least 1 week in follicular phase that is symptom-free . symptoms should be severe enough to significantly interfere with the ability of the patient to function within her normal lifestyle . diagnosis is based on clinical information from prospective charting of symptoms . up to 50 per cent of patients who think they have pms really suffer from another type of mental illness , usually a depressive disorder . laboratory tests are not generally helpful in the diagnosis . treatment is based on the type ( s ) of symptom ( s ) . available treatments are reviewed with documentation of results from double-blind placebo-controlled experimental designs . the etiology of pms is not known . however , there are good empiric therapies available that can help most pms patients . 
overnight admission of outpatient strabismus patients . the trend to outpatient strabismus surgery prompted us to determine the frequency of , and the reasons for , postoperative overnight hospital admission following such surgery . in one year , 303 outpatient strabotomies were performed at the jules stein eye institute on patients over 15 months old . twenty-four ( 7.9 % ) were admitted overnight postoperatively . compared with controls , those admitted were older ( 37 vs 20.5 years ) , and had a longer duration of anesthesia ( 145 vs 116 minutes ) and surgery ( 104 vs 75 minutes ) ( p less than .01 for each ) . the time that surgery commenced and the use of perioperative medications were not significant factors . the most frequent reasons for overnight admission were nausea ( 38 % ) despite prophylaxis and the use of bilateral patches ( 16 % ) . to minimize postoperative admissions , better strategies should be developed to decrease the frequency of significant postoperative nausea , the duration of surgery and anesthesia , and , if possible , the use of bilateral patches . 
management of postoperative inflammation : dexamethasone versus flurbiprofen , a quantitative study using the new flare cell meter . a consecutive , random , prospective study was conducted to compare the effect of topical dexamethasone and flurbiprofen drops on postoperative inflammation in patients undergoing extracapsular cataract extraction with lens implantation . objective , quantitative measurements were made postoperatively , using the kowa fc-1000 flare cell meter . the two treatments were equally effective . 
experience with photocoagulation in behcet 's disease . between 1973 and 1987 we examined both eyes of 300 patients with the uveoretinitis-type lesions characteristic of behcet 's disease . of the 556 eyes whose fundus could be examined , 38 eyes ( 6.8 % ) in 33 patients ( 11 % ) had developed retinal capillary nonperfusion , branch retinal vein occlusion , or retinal or disc neovascularization . these eyes were treated by photocoagulation , primarily to forestall vitreous hemorrhage and the development of neovascular glaucoma , as well as to decrease the macular edema resulting from vein occlusion . the treatment , which was well tolerated , was successful in closing retinal capillary nonperfusion areas and eliminating retinal neovascularization . disc neovascularization was resolved completely in some cases , and partially in others . 
argon versus krypton panretinal photocoagulation side effects on the anterior segment . the modification of corneal sensitivity , accommodation , pupillary diameter and endothelial cell density after argon versus krypton panretinal photocoagulation were studied prospectively in 88 eyes of 64 diabetic patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy , randomized for one of the two laser treatments . in both groups a marked internal ophthalmoplegia and reduction of corneal sensitivity occurred after laser photocoagulation . at no time , 2 , 90 and 180 days after prp , were these parameters significantly different . endothelial cell loss was non significantly greater in the krypton group . the results indicated that the side effects commonly observed on the anterior segment after prp are comparable using argon or krypton lasers . 
central visual field changes after panretinal photocoagulation in proliferative diabetic retinopathy . this study comprises 53 eyes , divided into two groups a and b , with proliferative diabetic retinopathy which were treated with panretinal photocoagulation ( prp ) . its purpose is to investigate the alterations in the central 15 degrees and 30 degrees of the visual field and in each quadrant separately . in both groups a and b , prp covered the periphery and mid-periphery . in group a , it stopped 2 disc diameters ( dd ) from the upper temporal and lower margin of the fovea including the papillomacular bundle , while in group b , prp stopped 3 dd from the upper temporal and lower margin of the fovea and 1 dd of the nasal margin of the optic disc . the investigation revealed , in group b after prp , an improvement of the retinal sensitivity in the central 15 degrees of the visual field ( p less than 0.01 ) . in the 30 degrees of the visual field a deterioration after prp was noted in both groups a and b , the deterioration being however much more prominent in group a. comparing the results between groups b and a after prp , a difference in the retinal sensitivity in favour of group b at 15 degrees and 30 degrees of the visual field was found . as regards regression of neovascularization and visual acuity , no statistically significant difference has been observed between the two groups . 
comparative study of different techniques of intraocular gas tamponade in the treatment of retinal detachment due to macular hole . the injection of sulfur hexafluoride ( sf6 ) or perfluoropropane ( c3f8 ) was used as a method of internal tamponade in 43 eyes affected by retinal detachment due to macular hole . the technique of ocular hypotension prior to gas injection varied according to the characteristics of each case , using vitrectomy and sf6 30 % in 8 cases ( group 1 ) , fluid-gas ( sf6 ) exchange through the pars plana in 10 cases ( group 2 ) , paracentesis of the anterior chamber prior to injection of sf6 in 12 cases ( group 3 ) and injection of c3f8 without drainage in 13 cases ( group 4 ) . retinal reattachment was initially achieved in 87 ( group 1 ) , 83.3 ( group 2 ) , 100 ( group 3 ) and 92.3 % ( group 4 ) , but 4 recurrences yielded a 6-month follow-up cure of 75 ( group 1 ) , 75 ( group 2 ) , 91 ( group 3 ) and 84 % ( group 4 ) . postoperative complications included proliferative vitreoretinopathy ( 7 % ) , endophthalmitis ( 2.3 % ) and subretinal hemorrhage ( 2.3 % ) . the use of intraocular gas tamponade appears to be a procedure with an acceptable complication rate in the treatment of retinal detachment due to macular hole . this study suggests the use of paracentesis and sf6 in phakic eyes , c3f8 in aphakic eyes and vitrectomy plus 30 % sf6 in eyes with proliferative vitreoretinopathy or vitreoretinal traction adjacent to the macular hole . 
retinal sensitivity in acute hypoglycemia . we measured retinal threshold sensitivity via automated computerized static perimetry in predetermined meridians in euglycemic diabetic subjects and in the same subjects during insulin-induced hypoglycemia . during periods of reduced blood glucose levels , decreased retinal sensitivity , most marked in temporal meridians , was observed . 
intraoperative massive suprachoroidal hemorrhage during pars plana vitrectomy . seven eyes ( 7 patients ) developed massive suprachoroidal hemorrhage ( msch ) during pars plana vitrectomy ( ppv ) for complicated retinal detachments . the msch developed late in the procedure following ppv , air fluid exchange , endolaser , cryopexy , and scleral buckling in five of seven eyes . in two eyes , mild hemorrhagic choroidal detachments noted intraoperatively progressed to msch within 72 hours postoperatively . diagnosis of msch was confirmed by echography and ct scan . multiple scleral buckling surgeries , high myopia , aphakia , and intraocular inflammation were the main risk factors . placement of a broad posterior scleral buckle with intraoperative hypotony and cryopexy were important precipitating factors . visual results were poor , with six of seven eyes showing no light perception . the mean follow-up time was 12.8 months . once acute msch is recognized intraoperatively , surgical decompression at that time should be avoided as msch itself may tamponade the choroidal bleed . details of prevention and management are discussed . 
autosomal dominant neovascular inflammatory vitreoretinopathy . twenty-eight of 61 members of a six-generation family are affected by an autosomal dominant eye disease which has not been described previously . affected patients are asymptomatic in early adulthood , but have vitreous cells and the selective loss of the b-wave on the electroretinogram . later , peripheral retinal scarring and pigmentation , peripheral arteriolar closure , and neovascularization of the peripheral retina at the ora serrata or occasionally neovascularization of the optic disc develop . cystoid macular edema , vitreous hemorrhage , tractional retinal detachment , and neovascular glaucoma can cause profound visual loss . vitrectomy reduces traction on the retina and allows for retinal reattachment . the role of argon laser photocoagulation or cryopexy in reducing the neovascular complications remains uncertain . 
acquired retinal arteriovenous communications in occlusive disease of the carotid artery . retinal arteriovenous communications proximal to extensive areas of complete vascular closure developed in three patients with occlusive disease of the carotid arteries . in one case , the authors document the development of the arteriovenous communications through successive enlargement of small retinal vessels after progressive signs of retinal ischemia in the form of narrowed retinal arteries , venous dilation and beading , microaneurysms , retinal dot and blot hemorrhages , cotton-wool spots , and capillary nonperfusion . the development of arteriovenous communications in carotid occlusive disease has not been described previously . 
serum and aqueous humor sialic acid levels in behcet 's disease . serum and aqueous humor sialic acid ( sa ) levels were determined in 27 patients with behcet 's disease ( bd ) . serum sa levels were elevated significantly during the active episode ( mean , 113.4 + / - 4.12 mg/dl ) and in the remission stages ( mean , 85.4 + / - 4.79 mg/dl ; p less than 0.001 ) . a significant increase was also detected in active episodes when compared to chronic stages ( p less than 0.02 ) . aqueous humor levels were also evaluated but could only be determined in the six eyes at the end-stage of the disease ( mean , 2.65 + / - 0.60 mg/dl ; p less than 0.05 ) . 
clinical spectrum of leber 's congenital amaurosis in the second to fourth decades of life . leber 's congenital amaurosis is a type of congenital retinitis pigmentosa in which the fundus abnormalities are extremely variable and to some extent age dependent . most cases are seen in infancy . the retinal , electroretinogram , and fluorescein angiographic findings are described in ten patients with leber 's congenital amaurosis who ranged in age from 13 to 36 years when first seen . all of the patients were from honduras and were unrelated except for one pair ( a brother and sister ) . the polymorphic appearance of the fundus is emphasized and is particularly striking in the siblings . a macular lesion ( a bull 's - eye maculopathy ) not previously associated with leber 's congenital amaurosis is reported as a variant fundus appearance in this entity . 
early magnetic resonance imaging in acute traumatic internuclear ophthalmoplegia . adduction deficiency following acute head trauma may result not only from orbital damage but also from internuclear ophthalmoplegia , and in most instances this resolves over weeks to months . to date , noninvasive imaging studies during the acute phase following injury have not been definitive in localizing the pathology . three cases of adduction deficiency following head trauma that were caused by internuclear ophthalmoplegia are reported . a lesion in the brain stem was found in all three cases by magnetic resonance imaging in the subacute post-traumatic period . these lesions were not visible on routine x-ray computed tomography obtained at the time of injury . 
a study of the comparative efficacy of four common analgesics in the control of postsurgical dental pain . four common oral analgesics were tested in a single-blind trial to determine their relative efficacy in the management of postsurgical pain in 103 patients who had their impacted third molars surgically removed under general anesthesia . the analgesics tested were acetylsalicylic acid ( 26 patients ) , ibuprofen ( 26 patients ) , a paracetamol/codeine/caffeine combination ( solpadeine ) ( 25 patients ) , and dihydrocodeine ( 26 patients ) . the paracetamol/codeine/caffeine combination , ibuprofen , and acetylsalicylic acid preparations produced equally effective analgesia . dihydrocodeine was found to be a poor analgesic in this pain model . there were no adverse reactions to any of the preparations . 
histologic evaluation of the width of soft tissue necrosis adjacent to carbon dioxide laser incisions . this study evaluated the width of tissue necrosis lateral to carbon dioxide laser incisions on human intraoral excisional biopsy specimens . measurements were made on specimens including epithelium , muscle , dense and loose connective tissue , and salivary gland . results showed a mean width of tissue necrosis of 86 microns in epithelium , 85 microns in muscle , 51 microns in loose connective tissue , 96 microns in dense connective tissue , and 41 microns in salivary gland . the range of thermal necrosis in different tissue types is probably based on the water content within each type . a cellular partially homogenized zone of reversible thermal damage up to 500 microns in width was visible adjacent to the zone of thermal necrosis . the relatively narrow width of tissue necrosis with this technique may account for the claimed superior properties of laser-induced wounds compared with those created by electrosurgery . 
multiple myeloma and bullous lichenoid lesions : an unusual association . many associations of lichenoid reactions have been described but this case appears to be a previously unreported association -- with multiple myeloma . this case also demonstrates the necessity of a mucosal biopsy with adequate hematologic and serologic investigations to obtain a definitive diagnosis . 
pharmacological versus non-pharmacological prophylaxis of recurrent migraine headache : a meta-analytic review of clinical trials . in order to generate information about the relative effectiveness of the most widely used pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions for the prophylaxis of recurrent migraine ( i.e. , propranolol hcl and combined relaxation/thermal biofeedback training ) , meta-analysis was used to integrate results from 25 clinical trials evaluating the effectiveness of propranolol and 35 clinical trials evaluating the effectiveness of relaxation/biofeedback training ( 2445 patients , collectively ) . meta-analysis revealed substantial , but very similar improvements have been obtained with propranolol and with relaxation/biofeedback training . when daily recordings have been used to assess treatment outcome , both propranolol and relaxation/biofeedback have yielded a 43 % reduction in migraine headache activity in the average patient . when improvements have been assessed using other outcome measures ( e.g. , physician/therapist ratings ) , improvements observed with each treatment have been about 20 % greater . in both cases , improvements observed with propranolol and relaxation/biofeedback have been significantly larger than improvement observed with placebo medication ( 14 % reduction ) or in untreated patients ( no reduction ) . meta-analysis thus revealed substantial empirical support for the effectiveness of both propranolol and relaxation/biofeedback training , but revealed no support for the contention that the two treatments differ in effectiveness . these results suggest that greater attention should be paid to determining the relative costs and benefits of widely used pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatments . 
clinical judgments in pain management . from research reports published over the last 20 years , it appears that moderate to severe uncontrolled pain may be the norm for hospitalized patients despite recent advances in the management of pain . research on the extent of under-management of pain and the factors associated with it is examined and summarized in this paper . methodological imperfections of the research are identified . several explanations for pain under-management have been proposed and these are reported . a clinical decision making model is also reviewed and it is suggested that this model could be applied to pain management problems . further , it is suggested that this model may be very useful in developing educational interventions to improve health practitioners ' clinical skills in pain management . 
clinical and instrumental evaluation of sensory function before and after percutaneous anterolateral cordotomy at cervical level in man . sensory perception thresholds were assessed by clinical testing and by quantitative instrumental testing before and after operation in 16 subjects for whom unilateral percutaneous cervical cordotomy was performed for the relief of pain due to malignant disease , and compared with clinical assessments of sensory function . we were able to confirm the association between deficit in pin-prick sensation and pain relief in the majority of instances , though the completeness or otherwise of pain relief does not correspond to absence of pin-prick sensation . there is no objective interference with low threshold mechanical sensation as measured instrumentally , although cordotomised subjects do not experience startle , tickle , or cutaneous erotic sensation when subjected to appropriate low intensity tactile sensation . quantitative instrumental testing shows that the greatest deficits produced by cordotomy are in the sensations of skinfold pinch ( ? = tissue-damage pain ) and skin cooling . the latter is transduced in the periphery by a delta fibres ; sensations of warmth and hot pain , transduced by primary afferent c fibres , are much less significantly affected . our findings thus fail to resolve the question as to whether chronic clinical pain is mainly an a delta - or a c fibre-mediated phenomenon . 
low dose amitriptyline in chronic pain : the gain is modest . in the double-blind placebo-controlled study presented here , the effects were investigated of a low dose of amitriptyline ( 75 mg ) in patients with chronic pain of various origins . the active drug was superior to placebo in reducing pain intensity . the reduction was small . in the second treatment week , the amitriptyline treated patients slept longer . no differences between active drug and placebo were found with respect to daily activities or use of analgesics . based on our data and those of other studies , it is concluded that amitriptyline ( and other antidepressants ) in low doses does have a positive effect on the intensity and some other aspects of chronic pain , but that the effect is modest . it must be kept in mind that chronic pain is a very treatment-resistant condition . therefore , even modest positive effects may be worthwhile . 
pain relief achieved by transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation and/or vibratory stimulation in a case of painful legs and moving toes . a patient is described with painful legs and moving toes . the pain had been occurring for more than 15 years , and a variety of therapies had been attempted with only partial , if any , success . only morphine had succeeded in relieving the pain , but it had to be discontinued to avoid tolerance and dependence . we devised a treatment consisting of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation ( tens ) , vibratory stimulation ( vs ) , and a combination of the two methods ( tens + vs ) . tens brought about partial pain relief , but was less effective than vs ; dual stimulation ( tens + vs ) led to complete alleviation of the pain . four months later , the patient was applying dual stimulation himself at home and was thus able to maintain complete relief with 3 or 4 weekly sessions . we suggest that dual stimulation results in a large-scale recruitment of large-diameter afferent fibres and may thus set up a powerful inhibitory control of nociception in our patient . 
heritability of symptoms in an experimental model of neuropathic pain . male and female rats underwent transection and ligation of the sciatic and saphenous nerves , and the development of autonomy was monitored . the deafferented animals were then interbred , always selecting males and females that expressed relatively high and , alternatively , relatively low levels of autotomy . offspring were similarly operated and interbred . by the sixth generation of selective breeding , lines were achieved in which autotomy was consistently high ( ha ) or consistently low ( la ) . there was no indication of sex linkage . thermal and mechanical nocifensive responsiveness co-selected with propensity to express autotomy following nerve injury : response thresholds were lower in ha than in la rats . f1 hybrids formed by crossing homozygous ha and la animals showed low levels of autotomy , similar to la stock . this indicates recessive inheritance of the autotomy trait . backcrossing f1 hybrids onto the la line yielded a low autotomy phenotype in almost all cases ; backcrossing f1 hybrids onto ha stock yielded about 50 % high autotomy and 50 % low autotomy . these ratios are consistent with simple mendelian inheritance of a single gene . taken together , the data suggest that autotomy is inherited as a single-gene autosomal recessive trait . 
adrenal medullary implants in the rat spinal cord reduce nociception in a chronic pain model . previous work in this laboratory has indicated that the transplantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the subarachnoid space of the rat spinal cord can reduce pain sensitivity to acute noxious stimuli , particularly following stimulation by nicotine . this most likely results from the stimulated release of opioid peptides and catecholamines from the transplanted chromaffin cells . however , chronic pain models may more closely resemble human clinical pain , and the arthritic rat model has been used for screening potential therapeutic strategies . the purpose of the present study was to assess the potential for adrenal medullary tissue implanted into the spinal subarachnoid space to alleviate chronic pain . adrenal medullary tissue was implanted into adjuvant-induced arthritic rats , and changes in body weight and vocalization responses were monitored over the 10 week course of the disease . results indicate that the severe weight reduction normally associated with this inflammatory arthritis was attenuated by adrenal medullary , but not control , implants . in addition , vocalizations were reduced in animals implanted with adrenal medullary , but not control tissue following nicotine stimulation . this reduction was blocked by the opiate antagonist , naloxone , and partially attenuated by the alpha-adrenergic antagonist , phentolamine . together , these results suggest that the transplantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the subarachnoid space of the spinal cord may provide a local source of opioid peptides and catecholamines for the reduction of chronic pain . 
management of chronic middle ear effusion with prednisone combined with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole . fifty-three patients were enrolled and evaluable in a randomized , double-blinded controlled clinical trial comparing prednisone for 7 days plus trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole ( tmp/smz ) for 30 days vs. tmp/smz alone in treating chronic middle ear effusion ( mee ) . clearing of the effusion in both ears or in one when only one was involved was called complete resolution ; clearing in one of two affected ears was called partial resolution . the outcomes 2 weeks after initiation of therapy of 26 patients initially treated with prednisone plus tmp/smz were complete resolution in 20 , partial resolution in three , and unchanged in three . the outcomes in 27 patients initially treated with tmp/smz alone were complete resolution in eight , partial resolution in three , unchanged in 13 and development of acute otitis media in three ( p less than 0.01 for complete resolution ) . two weeks after initiation of therapy , patients with a mee that failed to clear were crossed over to the alternative regimen . overall 29 of 41 patients ( 71 % ) who received oral prednisone plus tmp/smz initially or after the crossover had complete resolution of their middle ear effusion at 2 weeks after starting prednisone and tmp/smz . five of 35 ( 14 % ) patients treated with prednisone plus tmp/smz and one of six ( 17 % ) patients treated with tmp/smz alone who had complete resolution at 4 weeks required subsequent referrals for tympanostomy tubes . a course of prednisone for 7 days plus tmp/smz for 30 days with monthly follow-up should be considered in children with mee persisting beyond 6-8 weeks before referral for tympanostomy tube placement . 
pre-discharge immunization among hospitalized filipino children . identifying opportunities to vaccinate eligible children is one way to boost rates of immunization especially in countries with low immunization coverage and where convalescence from infectious illness is a contraindication to vaccination . to determine the safety and immunogenicity of diphtheria-tetanus toxoid-pertussis and oral polio immunization , 210 convalescing infants and children and community controls , comparable image and nutritional status , were studied . using the pertussis agglutination and poliovirus neutralization tests , quantitative serologic responses were compared in the two study groups . no significant differences in the incidence rates of febrile reactions ( 23 % in controls ; 28 % in convalescents ) of local reactions ( 92 % in controls ; 87 % in convalescents ) and of seroconversion ( p greater than 0.05 ) were noted between the two groups . our investigation suggests that infants and children convalescing from infectious illnesses can be safely and effectively vaccinated . this study further suggests that hospitalization provides an opportunity to vaccinate such children . 
clinical features of adenovirus enteritis : a review of 127 cases . we retrospectively analyzed the clinical features of 127 hospitalized pediatric patients whose fecal samples were positive for adenovirus ( ad ) by electron microscopy during an 18-month period . serotyping results obtained by microneutralization tests and restriction endonuclease analysis were available for 105 of 127 cases . there were 69 males and 58 females and 94 % of patients were less than 4 years of age . the average body temperature was 38 degrees c rectal ( range , 36.2-40 .8 degrees c ) with an average duration of fever of 1.6 days . the average duration of clinical illness was 8.8 days ( range , 1 to 32 days ) . although ad 40 and ad 41 were isolated in the majority of cases ( 59 of 105 ( 56 % ] , ad 31 was associated with 18 of 105 cases ( 17 % ) . of the 18 cases associated with ad 31 , 14 were nosocomial and associated with diarrhea . our survey confirms the importance of fastidious enteric ad in infantile diarrhea ( ad 40 , ad 41 ) and suggests that ad 31 produces a clinical syndrome indistinguishable from that caused by ad 40 and ad 41 . the occurrence of ad enteritis in patients admitted for unrelated illnesses well after initial hospitalization suggests that ad is also an important cause of nosocomial enteritis in our hospital . 
prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus seropositivity in pediatric emergency room patients undergoing phlebotomy . information on the prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection among children and adolescents requiring medical care is sparse . a small but significant risk of seroconversion occurs in health care workers who handle blood and body fluids of patients infected with hiv . the prevalence of hiv seropositivity in children who had phlebotomy as part of emergency care was measured . of 749 blood samples , 21 ( 2.8 % ) tested positive for hiv antibody by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and western blot analysis : 14 samples from 6 patients with hemophilia , 6 from 3 patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-related complex , and 1 from a patient with asthma . of these 21 blood samples , 10 were from 4 children previously known to be hiv positive , 4 were from patients with a known parental risk factor , and 16 were from patients with known history of blood transfusion . one sample was from a children with unknown hiv status and no documented risk factors . procedures included 9 venipunctures , 17 intravenous line placements , 1 lumbar puncture , and 1 pelvic examination . most patients with hiv seropositivity had been known to be hiv seropositive or at significant risk for hiv seropositivity . although the potential risk to health care workers from children without known risk factors for hiv seropositivity was small in this population , the currently recommended infection-control precautions should always be observed . 
transbronchial biopsies in children after heart-lung transplantation . sixty transbronchial biopsies have been performed in eight children after heart-lung transplantation . the selection of fiber-optic bronchoscope or a small ( 4 mm ; 30 cm ) rigid bronchoscope was made according to the size of endotracheal tube required at surgery . if the endotracheal tube was size 7.5 or greater , a fiber-optic bronchoscope was used , whereas if the endotracheal tube size was below 7 , a rigid bronchoscope was used . for the diagnosis of lung rejection , the histology of biopsies revealed a sensitivity of 91 % and specificity of 69 % ( similar to the result in adults ) . the histology also distinguished lung infection from rejection . complications included three pneumothoraces and two clinically significant episodes of hemorrhage , one of which led to a cardiorespiratory arrest , which may have been caused by hypoxia . as a result , arterial oxygen saturation is now monitored during the procedure using a pulse oximeter . 
development and validation of an index for scoring baseline respiratory disease in the very low birth weight neonate . severity index development and validation panels and newborn lung project . an accurate description of the population at risk for neonatal chronic lung disease is clearly of prime importance for comparative studies and the planning of interventions . attempts to explain variations in chronic lung disease rates in such studies have been compromised by lack of a way of estimating the severity of the initial pulmonary disease as a risk factor . therefore , a severity index was developed for use in very low birth weight ( less than 1501 g ) neonates . special emphasis was placed on applicability of the index in the multicenter observational setting . development followed a clinician panel approach , with the resulting index designed to capture clinical judgment of severity . the index was validated prospectively on neonates in a neonatal intensive care unit , and retrospectively using charts from nine hospitals nationwide . correlations of the index with clinical judgment in the two samples were .95 and .93 , respectively . in an additional validation the index combined with birth weight correctly predicted oxygen dependence status at 30 days in 36 of 42 neonates consecutively admitted to five neonatal intensive care units ( p = .002 ) . birth weight and the severity index contributed about equally to the prediction , and therefore they seem to represent partly independent components of baseline propensity for prolonged oxygen dependence . 
surfactant replacement therapy with a single postventilatory dose of a reconstituted bovine surfactant in preterm neonates with respiratory distress syndrome : final analysis of a multicenter , double-blind , randomized trial and comparison with similar trials . the surfactant-ta study group . the effects of a single dose of surfactant ta were assessed in premature neonates ( birth weight 750 to 1749 g ) with respiratory distress syndrome ( rds ) in a multicenter , double-blind , randomized clinical trial . only neonates with surfactant deficiency and without ultrasonographic evidence of intracranial hemorrhage greater than or equal to grade ii were enrolled . fifty-four patients received surfactant ( 100 mg of phospholipid per kilogram of body weight ) and 46 patients received an air placebo within 8 hours of life . treatment with this surfactant resulted in a significant reduction in the severity of rds with a concomitant increase in the proportion of neonates with mild disease . the frequency of pulmonary interstitial emphysema and of pneumothorax was significantly lower in treated neonates compared with control neonates ( 2 % vs 26 % , p = .0008 , and 7 % vs 39 % , p = .0004 , respectively ) . the frequency of intracranial hemorrhage was significantly lower in the surfactant group compared with the control group ( 20 % vs 54 % , p = .0008 ) and was also reduced for the smallest neonates in the surfactant group ( 13 % vs 73 % , p = .00008 ) . when categorized according to severity of intracranial hemorrhage and severity of bronchopulmonary dysplasia , the surfactant group was at a significant advantage ( adjusted cochran-mantel-haenszel x2 = 10.72 , p less than .001 and x2 = 4.43 , p = .036 , respectively ) . the proportion of neonates surviving without intracranial hemorrhage and/or bronchopulmonary dysplasia was 63 % in the surfactant group vs 26 % in the control group ( p = .0004 ) ; as for the smallest neonates , it was 58 % in the surfactant group vs 4 % in the control group ( p = .0002 ) . there were no differences between the groups with respect to the frequency of patent ductus arteriosus ( 46 % vs 37 % ) , pulmonary hemorrhage ( 6 % vs 7 % ) , necrotizing enterocolitis ( 0 % vs 2 % ) , sepsis ( 4 % vs 2 % ) , retinopathy of prematurity ( 13 % vs 22 % ) , or death ( 15 % vs 22 % ) . it is concluded that treatment with the single-dose surfactant regimen used in this study reduces the severity of respiratory distress during the 48 hours after treatment and decreases the major pulmonary morbidity and intracranial hemorrhage in premature neonates with rds . further studies are needed to determine whether ( 1 ) treatment at birth or as soon as after rds is diagnosed and ( 2 ) the use of multiple dose of this surfactant would result in any additional benefits . 
assessment of patient laboratory data in the acutely ill . laboratory test results are a valuable source of information . nurses need to assess laboratory test results as part of the physical assessment of their patients . comparison of laboratory test results and changes with abnormal physical findings provides the basis for changes in the nursing care plan . progressive monitoring of laboratory results and prompt interventions might lessen the seriousness of the health problem . in acute care units , the initial group of laboratory tests serves as a baseline for assessing additional test results . several reference values should be remembered , particularly the electrolytes ( potassium , sodium , and calcium ) , glucose , bun , creatinine , and albumin . specific group profiles assist in identifying and in monitoring the patient 's health status . incorporating laboratory test results into the plan and evaluation of care will result in safer and more effective patient care . referring to laboratory test findings and comparing them with physical assessment findings are required for the delivery of professional nursing care . 
neurologic assessment . neurologic nursing assessment requires the knowledge of anatomic and physiologic principles as well as the mastery of complex assessment skills . the nurse who is often the first and most consistent health team member interacting with clients may provide the key to the early recognition , prevention , and treatment of neurologic problems . the nurse , as the dynamic member of the health team , may then be the first line of defense in initiating cost-effective and perhaps life-saving measures in neurologically impaired clients . 
acute pain relief . pain is a multidimensional psychophysiologic phenomenon . systematic multidimensional assessment is an essential first component of an effective plan to relieve the pain . nurses are key to effective pain management because of the close , 24-hour-a-day relationship with the hospitalized patient . it is the nurse who is most critical to the adequate assessment of pain , to the implementation of the treatment plan , and to the evaluation of efficacy . nurses should continue to develop a better knowledge base about pain and pain therapies and assessment skills , be assertive in obtaining effective treatment for their patients , and perceive themselves as responsible for pain relief . 
chronic pain . understanding of the etiology of chronic pain is growing rapidly as researchers seek to integrate physiologic and psychosocial mechanisms . when nurses assess clients with chronic pain , they should make their assessments using both verbal and nonverbal methods and realize that no one instrument is comprehensive enough to be used alone . the key to successful treatment of these difficult clients lies in the use of a comprehensive approach that takes the client seriously and integrates both physiologic and psychosocial approaches . 
nausea , vomiting , and retching . although nausea , vomiting , and retching have plagued mankind since antiquity , limited attention has been given to the three symptoms as separate entities . although knowledge of symptom occurrence is essential to practice , nurses must focus on patients ' response or distress to the occurrence of symptoms . the differentiation of symptom occurrence and symptom distress of nausea , vomiting , and retching is critical to the management and self-care demands of patients and the enhancement of their quality of life . basic research on patterns of these individual symptoms and their components promises to provide a more progressive and fruitful approach to the patient response to these symptoms . 
fatigue . fatigue is a pervasive , protective phenomenon affecting the totality of the individual . assessment and management involve a wide range of activities to address the total human being 's physical , psychological , cognitive , and spiritual dimensions . when elimination or neutralization of the effect of an antecedent condition is not an option , redesigning one 's life-style may be the primary avenue of fatigue management . this protective mechanism , fatigue , may in fact herald the return of quality and purpose to one 's life . 
when epilepsy masquerades as heart disease . awareness is key to avoiding misdiagnosis . autonomic neural impulses that accompany discharges during a seizure can cause a variety of cardiac manifestations , including cardiac arrhythmias , sudden death , anginal chest pain , neurogenic pulmonary edema , and symptoms of pheochromocytoma . either generalized or focal seizures may generate such signs and symptoms . a better appreciation of cardiac problems caused by epilepsy is helpful in preventing misdiagnosis , because the clinical picture in such a patient may be confusing . 
arrhythmias in patients with chf . should they be treated ? ventricular arrhythmias are a major cause of death in patients with congestive heart failure . dr ellenbogen and his associates discuss the current thinking , based on recent studies , concerning use of antiarrhythmic agents to prevent sudden cardiac death in these patients . as they point out , the proper antiarrhythmic therapy may be crucial to long-term survival . 
potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias . minimizing the danger . patients with potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias are at an increased risk of sudden death . antiarrhythmic drugs , with the exception of beta blockers and possibly amiodarone , have not been particularly effective in reducing mortality . beta blockers have been used successfully to treat survivors of myocardial infarction , including patients with significant impairment of ventricular function . evidence to date suggests that use of low-dose amiodarone may be appropriate for selected patients with chronic heart failure and potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias . 
abdominal trauma in pregnancy . when is fetal monitoring necessary ? the type and duration of observation and monitoring of mother and fetus after abdominal trauma are dependent on gestational age and severity of trauma . fetal monitoring is usually not required when the fetus is not viable ; the primary consideration is the safety of the mother . when the fetus is viable , 24-hour inpatient fetal monitoring is indicated in cases of major trauma , even when no symptoms of injury are obvious . 
mitral valve prolapse . when is it serious ? mitral valve prolapse can best be diagnosed with careful clinical evaluation , including dynamic auscultation . treatment consists of reassurance , pharmacotherapy for troublesome symptoms , and careful monitoring for signs of complications . most complications can be either prevented or treated . 
postinduction repression of the beta-interferon gene is mediated through two positive regulatory domains . virus induction of the human beta-interferon ( beta-ifn ) gene results in an increase in the rate of beta-ifn mrna synthesis , followed by a rapid postinduction decrease . in this paper , we show that two beta-ifn promoter elements , positive regulatory domains i and ii ( prdi and prdii ) , which are required for virus induction of the beta-ifn gene are also required for the postinduction turnoff . although protein synthesis is not necessary for activation , it is necessary for repression of these promoter elements . examination of nuclear extracts from cells infected with virus reveals the presence of virus-inducible , cycloheximide-sensitive , dna-binding activities that interact specifically with prdi or prdii . we propose that the postinduction repression of beta-ifn gene transcription involves virus-inducible repressors that either bind directly to the positive regulatory elements of the beta-ifn promoter or inactivate the positive regulatory factors bound to prdi and prdii . 
estrogen receptor level determines sex-specific in vitro transcription from the xenopus vitellogenin promoter . female-specific expression of the xenopus laevis vitellogenin gene was reconstituted in vitro by addition of recombinant vaccinia-virus-produced estrogen receptor to nuclear extracts from male livers , in which this gene is silent . transcription enhancement was at least 30 times and was selectively restricted to vitellogenin templates containing the estrogen-responsive unit . thus , in male hepatocytes , estrogen receptor is the limiting regulatory factor that in the female liver controls efficient and accurate sex-specific expression of the vitellogenin gene . furthermore , the xenopus liver factor b , which is essential in addition to the estrogen receptor for the activation of this gene , was successfully replaced in the xenopus extract by purified human nuclear factor i , identifying factor b of xenopus as a functional homolog of this well-characterized human transcription factor . 
accumulation of p21ras.gtp in response to stimulation with epidermal growth factor and oncogene products with tyrosine kinase activity . the ras gene product ( p21 ) is a gtp-binding protein and has been thought to transduce signals regulating proliferation or differentiation of cells . like other gtp-binding proteins , p21.gtp is an active conformation , which can transduce the signals downstream , whereas p21.gdp is an inactive one . recently , we have shown that p21.gtp levels increased in cells treated with fetal bovine serum or platelet-derived growth factor to initiate dna synthesis . in this paper , we report that epidermal growth factor can also increase the amounts of p21.gtp in the cells . effects of epidermal growth factor and platelet-derived growth factor are not additive . in contrast , mutant [ val12 ] p21 , which has transforming activity , responded neither to platelet-derived growth factor nor to epidermal growth factor . we also found that the ratio of p21.gtp to p21.gdp increased 3 - to 4-fold in transformants carrying activated erbb-2 / neu or v-src oncogenes . these results strongly suggest an important role of p21 in transduction of signals for both normal proliferation and malignant transformation through growth factor receptors with tyrosine kinase activity or related oncogene products . 
hypomutability in fanconi anemia cells is associated with increased deletion frequency at the hprt locus . fanconi anemia ( fa ) is an inherited human disorder associated with a predisposition to cancer and characterized by anomalies in the processing of dna cross-links and certain monoadducts . we reported previously that the frequency of psoralen-photoinduced mutations at the hprt locus is lower in fa cells than in normal cells . this hypomutability is shown here to be associated with an increased frequency of deletions in the hprt gene when either a mixture of cross-links and monoadducts or monoadducts alone are induced . molecular analysis of mutants in the hprt gene was carried out . in normal cells the majority of spontaneous and induced mutants are point mutations whereas in fa deletion mutations predominate . in that case a majority of mutants were found to lack individual exons or small clusters of exons whereas in normal cells large ( complete or major gene loss ) and small deletions are almost equally represented . thus we propose that the fa defect lies in a mutagenic pathway that , in normal cells , involves bypassing lesions and subsequent gap filling by a recombinational process during replication . 
homeobox gene expression plus autocrine growth factor production elicits myeloid leukemia . in the murine myelomonocytic leukemia wehi-3b , proviral insertions have induced expression of the hox-2 .4 homeobox gene and the gene for the myeloid growth factor interleukin 3 ( il-3 ) . to assess their potential oncogenic role , normal bone marrow cells were infected with retroviruses bearing the genes for il-3 or il-3 plus hox-2 .4 . unlike the il-3 virus , the il-3 / hox-2 .4 virus was highly leukemogenic . infected cells expressing both genes exhibited retarded differentiation in vitro , generated myelomonocytic cell lines , and provoked a rapid , transplantable myeloid leukemia in vivo . the oncogenic action of hox-2 .4 appears to derive from its ability to impede the il-3-driven terminal differentiation of myeloid cells . the results suggest that homeobox genes can regulate key differentiation processes such as self-renewal capacity and that their inappropriate expression can be oncogenic . 
myod induces growth arrest independent of differentiation in normal and transformed cells . myod is a gene involved in the control of muscle differentiation . we show that myod causes growth arrest when expressed in cell lines derived from tumors or transformed by different oncogenes . myod-induced growth inhibition was demonstrated by reduction in the efficiency of colony formation and at the single-cell level . we further show that myod growth inhibition can occur in cells that are not induced to activate muscle differentiation markers . the inhibitory activity of myod was mapped to the same 68-amino acid segment necessary and sufficient for induction of muscle differentiation , the basic-helix-loop-helix motif . mutants with alterations in the basic region of myod that fail to bind or do not activate a muscle-specific enhancer inhibited growth ; mutants with deletions in the helix-loop-helix region failed to inhibit growth . thus , inhibition of cell growth by myod seems to occur by means of a parallel pathway to the one that leads to myogenesis . we conclude that myod is a prototypic gene capable of functionally activating intracellular growth inhibitory pathways . 
identification of mutations in regions corresponding to the two putative nucleotide ( atp ) - binding folds of the cystic fibrosis gene . additional mutations in the cystic fibrosis ( cf ) gene were identified in the regions corresponding to the two putative nucleotide ( atp ) - binding folds ( nbfs ) of the predicted polypeptide . the patient cohort included 46 canadian cf families with well-characterized dna marker haplotypes spanning the disease locus and several other families from israel . eleven mutations were found in the first nbf , 2 were found in the second nbf , but none was found in the r-domain . seven of the mutations were of the missense type affecting some of the highly conserved amino acid residues in the first nbf ; 3 were nonsense mutations ; 2 would probably affect mrna splicing ; 2 corresponded to small deletions , including another 3-base-pair deletion different from the major mutation ( delta f508 ) , which could account for 70 % of the cf chromosomes in the population . nine of these mutations accounted for 12 of the 31 non-delta f508 cf chromosomes in the canadian families . the highly heterogeneous nature of the remaining cf mutations provides important insights into the structure and function of the protein , but it also suggests that dna-based genetic screening for cf carrier status will not be straightforward . 
role of tryptophan repeats and flanking amino acids in myb-dna interactions . the c-myb protooncogene codes for a sequence-specific dna-binding protein that appears to act as a transcriptional regulator and is highly conserved through evolution . the dna-binding domain of myb has been shown to contain three imperfectly conserved repeats of 52 amino acids that constitute the amino-terminal end . within each repeat , there are three tryptophans that are separated by 18 or 19 amino acids and are flanked by basic amino acids . to determine the role of tryptophans and the flanking basic amino acids in the dna-binding activity of myb proteins , we have selectively mutagenized individual tryptophans as well as some of the amino acid residues that flank these tryptophans . replacement of these tryptophans with glycine , proline , or arginine abolished the dna-binding activity whereas replacement with other aromatic amino acids or leucine or alanine did not appreciably affect this activity . on the other hand the replacement of two amino acids , asparagine and lysine , that flank the last tryptophan with acidic amino acids completely abolished their dna-binding activity . these results are consistent with a model we present in which the tryptophans form a hydrophobic scaffold that plays a crucial role in maintaining the helix-turn-helix structure of the dna binding domain . basic and polar amino acids adjacent to these tryptophans seem to participate directly in dna binding . 
mutations in src homology regions 2 and 3 of activated chicken c-src that result in preferential transformation of mouse or chicken cells . src homology regions 2 and 3 ( sh2 and sh3 ) of proteins encoded by src and closely related genes are conserved domains believed to modulate the protein-tyrosine kinase activity of this class of proteins , perhaps through interactions with other proteins . to explore the possibility of using src mutants as probes for such interactions , we have compared mouse nih 3t3 cells with chicken embryo fibroblasts as host cells for 24 previously described substitution and deletion mutants with lesions in the sh2 - and sh3-encoding regions of a transformation-competent allele of chicken c-src . although several of these mutants are equally competent or equally defective for transformation of the two cell types , four mutants ( three of which map within sh3 ) preferentially transform nih 3t3 cells , and seven mutants ( all of which map within sh2 ) preferentially transform chicken cells . some of the sh2 mutants least able to transform mouse cells exhibit augmented transforming activity in chicken cells . in general , the in vitro protein-tyrosine kinase activities of the mutants correlated with transforming activities . thus , in many cases , the catalytic activity of a mutant protein depended upon the host cell in which the protein was made . such host-dependent mutants may be especially useful reagents for biochemical and genetic studies of the src gene family . 
streamlined approach to creating yeast artificial chromosome libraries from specialized cell sources . the study of tumor-specific chromosomal abnormalities has been severely impeded by an inability to link cytogenetic to molecular data . restriction fragment length polymorphism mapping of any particular chromosomal rearrangement to the resolution limit of genetic methodology generates sets of probes that frequently are still too widely spaced to render the rearrangement breakpoints accessible to molecular isolation . the stable propagation of genomic fragments of up to one million base pairs in size as yeast artificial chromosomes ( yacs ) represents an important development in this regard . however , existing yac libraries have been made from karyotypically normal sources making the localization and cloning of specific rearrangement breakpoints much more difficult . as a solution to this problem , we present an improved method for creating yac libraries that can utilize specialized tumor-derived materials and that can be executed effectively in a small laboratory setting . procedures that enabled more consistent dna insert size selection and enhanced yeast transformation frequency were employed to generate a human yac library from a neuroepithelioma cell line containing a characteristic t ( 11 ; 22 ) chromosomal translocation . approximately 40,000 colonies with an average insert size of 330 kilobase pairs were created . this library was screened with two single-copy probes that bracket the translocation breakpoint . yac clones ranging from 370 to 550 kilobase pairs that were specific for each single-copy probe were identified . specialized yac libraries will make many more tumor-specific chromosomal abnormalities accessible to molecular isolation . 
hypodense eosinophils and interleukin 5 activity in the blood of patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . the recent recognition of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome ( ems ) associated with the ingestion of l-tryptophan prompted an analysis of the peripheral blood eosinophil phenotypes and of the serum eosinophil hematopoietins in this disorder . five patients with an illness characterized by the abrupt onset of aching skeletal muscles , edema , thickening and induration of the skin , and marked blood eosinophilia associated with l-tryptophan ingestion provided eosinophils , serum , or both , for evaluation . gradient sedimentation density analysis of the peripheral blood eosinophils from four of these patients revealed that 43 + / - 13 % ( mean + / - sem ) of the cells had converted to the abnormal ( hypodense ) sedimenting phenotype . when normodense eosinophils from the reference donors were cultured for 3 days in medium supplemented with increasing concentrations of serum from the patients with ems , their viability increased in a dose-dependent manner to 45 % , which was significantly augmented over the effect of normal serum . this eosinophil viability-sustaining activity was inhibited by 76 + / - 7 % ( mean + / - sem ; n = 3 ) by the addition of anti-interleukin 5 ( il-5 ) but not by neutralizing antibodies monospecific for either granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) or il-3 . il-5 , an eosinophilopoietic factor , converts normodense peripheral blood eosinophils in vitro to a hypodense sedimenting form with extended viability and augmented biologic responses to activating stimuli . thus , the presence of il-5 in the sera of patients with ems may contribute to the development and maintenance of the eosinophilia and may regulate the conversion of the peripheral blood eosinophils to the hypodense phenotype with augmented pathobiologic potential . 
correlation of the structure of the transmembrane domain of the neu oncogene-encoded p185 protein with its function . the human homologue of the neu oncogene is frequently found in human tumors . certain amino acid substitutions at position 664 in the transmembrane domain of the neu oncogene-encoded p185 protein product are known to cause malignant transformation of cells . using conformational energy analysis based on ecepp ( empirical conformational energies for polypeptides program ) , we have previously determined the preferred three-dimensional structures for the transmembrane domain of the p185 protein with a transforming ( glutamic acid ) and a nontransforming ( valine ) substitution at the critical position 664 and found that the global minimum-energy conformation of this region in the nontransforming protein contains a sharp bend , whereas the global minimum-energy conformation for this region from the transforming protein is entirely alpha-helical . we now demonstrate that this result holds for other known nontransforming ( glycine , histidine , tyrosine , and lysine ) and transforming ( glutamine ) substitutions at position 664 . furthermore , a simple statistical thermodynamic analysis of the results indicates that approximately 85 % of each of the nontransforming sequences exist with the bend at positions 664 and 665 , while approximately 90 % of each of the transforming sequences exist as an alpha-helix . about 9 % of the nontransforming sequences exist as the alpha-helix . these results suggest that if the intracellular concentration of the normal protein is increased at least 10-fold , thereby increasing the alpha-helical form by this factor , cell transformation should result . this conclusion is directly supported by genetic experiments in which this level of overexpression of the normal protein was achieved with attendant cell transformation . 
treatment of craniomaxillofacial fibrous dysplasia : how early and how extensive ? twenty-eight craniomaxillofacial fibrous dysplasia patients were treated as early as the symptoms occurred . the principles of surgical treatment were based on the zones of involvement : total excision of dysplastic bone of fronto-orbital , zygoma , and upper maxillary origin ( zone 1 ) and bone reconstruction primarily ; conservative excision on hair-bearing skull ( zone 2 ) , central cranial base ( zone 3 ) , and tooth-bearing bones ( zone 4 ) ; and optic canal decompression on patients with orbital dysplasia and decreasing visual acuity . patients were followed for 1 to 11 years ( average 5.3 years ) . no recurrence or invasion of the fibrous dysplasia into the grafted bone was seen . one patient had orthognathic maxillary osteotomy on the reconstructed maxilla 6 years after initial reconstruction . five of 19 patients with alveolar dysplasia had a recurrence and were reshaped . one patient had mandibular sagittal osteotomies to set back the prognathic , fibrous dysplasic mandible after three attempts at conservative shaving . another patient with mandibular fibrous dysplasia had recurrence with pain and a hemimandibulectomy with successful immediate free vascularized iliac bone graft reconstruction . 
sixty consecutive breast reconstructions with the inflatable expander : a critical appraisal . breast reconstruction using inflatable expanders has become an established and preferred technique . although our knowledge of the biomechanical changes occurring in expanded skin has increased greatly , little information is available regarding average aesthetic results achieved with this technique . in order to eliminate the bias of best case selection reports , this study of 60 consecutive patients undergoing skin-expansion breast reconstruction was undertaken . results of the study demonstrated a significant frequency and diversity of complications . in particular , immediate breast reconstruction with skin expanders was identified as a high-risk procedure because of its association with skin necrosis and delayed wound healing . although two procedures -- insertion and replacement -- had been anticipated , patients from both the boston and new york groups required approximately three operations to complete the expansion process . average aesthetic results , often characterized by problems of symmetry , ptosis , and contour , need to be recognized and improved . 
direct monitoring of capillary perfusion following normovolemic hemodilution in an experimental skin-flap model . the effects of normovolemic hemodilution on skin flap survival are studied in a recently developed skin-flap model ( homozygous hairless mouse ear ) in which nutritional capillary flow is monitored directly by means of intravital microscopy from the time of flap creation throughout the establishment of necrosis . two diluting agents ( dextran 60 and hydroxyethyl starch 200 ) are utilized . our quantitative findings demonstrate that the amount of nonperfused tissue following flap creation in both the dextran ( n = 23 ) and starch ( n = 13 ) groups was significantly decreased as compared with controls ( n = 19 ) . our qualitative observations suggest that improved hemorrheologic properties at the microcirculatory level are responsible for the observed decreased necrosis . various mechanisms by which hemodilution may act to prevent necrosis are discussed . 
antibiotic therapy for common infections . several important points regarding the treatment of urinary tract infections should be made . single-dose and short-course antibiotic therapy is appropriate only for women with acute bacterial cystitis due to e. coli . studies comparing single-dose to full-course therapy have not been sufficiently designed to draw valid statistical conclusions , and only tmp/smx is recommended at this time . recurrent uti in women is almost always due to reinfection , which is best managed by prophylactic antibiotics . acute bronchitis and acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis are often due to viral infections , and therefore antibiotic therapy is not always needed . in acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis , the clearest success rates for antibiotic therapy have been in patients , who have all three of the following symptoms : increased dyspnea , increased sputum production , and sputum purulence . mupirocin is an important addition to the agents used to treat bacterial skin infections due to streptococcal and staphylococcal strains . in impetigo , mupirocin has been demonstrated to be as effective or superior to oral erythromycin . in prostatitis , data on the fluoroquinolones appears impressive , but further comparative trials are needed . they may become first-line , empiric therapy . the newer oral antibiotics are not recommended as initial , empiric therapy in the outpatient management of common infections , with the possible exception of the treatment of prostatitis . these newer agents may be more important in the treatment of recurrent or resistant infections . 
interferon system and natural killer cell activity in myasthenia gravis . the autoimmune response in myasthenia gravis is well characterized , but little is known about the mechanisms initiating it . we have studied the interferon system and natural killer cell activity in 25 patients with myasthenia gravis and compared them to 68 healthy subjects and 96 patients with acute viral infections . forty-four per cent of patients had circulating interferon ( greater than 16 mu/ml ) , and in a similar proportion their peripheral blood mononuclear cells were in an antiviral state , i.e. , showed low levels of viral replication when infected by vesicular stomatitis virus . spontaneous in vitro interferon production by patients ' peripheral blood mononuclear cells was also common ( greater than 10 mu/ml , 32 per cent ) , while the response to the alpha-interferon inducer poly i : c was lower than expected , possibly reflecting the already high state of activation of the interferon system . these results were essentially similar to those obtained in patients with viral illnesses and differed significantly from healthy controls . in many myasthenia gravis patients ( 16 of 22 , 73 per cent ) , a markedly deficient natural killer cell activity was found , with a median cytotoxicity of 6.5 per cent compared to 29 per cent in healthy subjects ( p less than 0.005 ) . thus , many patients with myasthenia gravis have evidence of an activated interferon system and defective natural killer cell activity , suggesting an occult viral infection or reflecting nonspecific stimulation which may nevertheless contribute to the pathogenesis of the autoimmune response . 
haemostatic changes in the loin pain and haematuria syndrome : secondary to renal vasospasm ? twenty-five patients ( seven male , 18 female ) were diagnosed as having the loin pain and haematuria syndrome . presenting symptoms were either loin pain alone or pain associated with macroscopic or microscopic haematuria , and were longstanding , having been present for mean of 9.3 years in males , and 10 years in females . ten patients described symptoms of passing gravel or renal stones but these were only demonstrated radiologically in two patients . investigation of all patients showed anatomically normal renal tracts , normal renal function , and no significant proteinuria . phase-contrast microscopy during episodes of haematuria revealed dysmorphic red cells in all 10 patients studied . renal biopsies were performed in 20 patients and showed no glomerular pathology , but arteriolar and arterial hyalinosis was seen in 13 of 20 ( 65 per cent ) , fibro-elastosis in larger vessels in eight of 20 ( 40 per cent ) and red blood cells in tubules in 13 of 20 ( 65 per cent ) patients . the histological appearance in vessels was similar to that seen in cyclosporin a nephrotoxicity and would be consistent with the hypothesis that regional vasospasm occurs in the cortical circulation . haematological studies in 22 patients , when compared with age and sex matched controls , showed the presence of circulating platelet aggregates , elevation of plasma beta-thromboglobulin ( p less than 0.001 ) , and increased platelet aggregation in response to serotonin and adp ( p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.03 , respectively ) . plasma concentrations of d dimer ( p less than 0.02 ) and c-reactive protein ( p less than 0.03 ) were also significantly elevated in the patient group . there was no deterioration of renal function during a mean observation period of 3.7 years and no patients developed proteinuria . treatment was largely supportive ; seven patients with intractable loin pain underwent surgical denervation with the relief of pain in four . 
the management of atypical non-cardiac chest pain . atypical , non-cardiac chest pain is common and disabling , and often persists despite negative medical investigations . aetiology is disputed and management is difficult . a multi-causal model in which both psychological and physical factors play a part is helpful ; a fundamental factor is continued misinterpretation of minor physical symptoms as evidence of heart disease . we report supportive evidence and describe a psychological treatment derived from the model . in a randomized trial , cognitive behavioural methods were effective in reducing chest pain , disability and use of medication , in patients both with and without psychiatric disorder . the clinical implications are discussed . 
interventional radiologic alternatives to cholecystectomy . it has been estimated that 20 million people in the united states have gallstone disease . the choice of the optimal management strategy for a patient with symptomatic gallstones in the 1990s will take into account the clinical status of the patient , the characteristics of the gallstones , and the patient 's preference . only patients whose doctors understand the advantages and disadvantages of the newer methods can make properly informed choices . when interventional radiologic alternatives to cholecystectomy are being contemplated , one approach is to first consider the patient 's clinical presentation ( acute or nonacute ) and then their risk of death after cholecystectomy ( low or high ) . figure 5 shows an algorithmic approach to the management of gallbladder stones based on this concept . this algorithm also can be used as a framework for discussion of treatment options with any individual patient . 
percutaneous balloon dilatation of benign biliary strictures . percutaneous biliary dilatation is an effective alternative to surgical management of benign biliary strictures that has low morbidity and no reported mortality . reported success rates for this procedure range from 40 % to 90 % depending on the size of the series , the type of patient being treated , and the length of follow-up period . the procedure is done in the fluoroscopy suite with an angioplasty balloon catheter . transhepatic access is most common , but the procedure may be done via existing t-tube tracts or specially created jejunal loops . as the frequency of radical liver surgery such as liver transplant and radical trisegmentectomy rises , so too , the rate of biliary stricture is likely to rise , making percutaneous balloon dilatation an increasingly important tool in the interventional radiologist 's armamentarium . 
interventional radiology of the biliary tract . metallic stents . biliary metallic stents were placed in 18 patients with bile duct obstruction . six patients received gianturco stents and 14 wall-stents . results of these tests are discussed . 
biliary endoprostheses . plastic versus metal stents . plastic biliary endoprostheses relieved malignant obstructive jaundice in 80 % to 90 % of the patients . the comfort of a completely indwelling endoprosthesis should be offered to all palliatively treated tumor patients , and external-internal catheters should be reserved for the minority of patients who return with reoccluded endoprostheses . these patients have bacterial flora that rapidly contaminates the endoprosthesis and causes encrustations and reocclusions . thus , a second endoprosthesis also would reocclude quickly . the mechanism of reocclusion of plastic and metal endoprostheses is completely different . in plastic endoprostheses , bacterial contamination causes decomposition of the bile and subsequent encrustation . in metal endoprostheses tumor ingrowths between the struts of the stent cause reocclusion . tumor ingrowths were observed in only 6.5 % of metal prostheses with a narrow woven mesh ( wallstent ) , whereas prostheses with large distances between the struts ( gianturco stent ) had ingrowth rates of 19 % to 50 % . this fact shows that tumor ingrowths can be reduced by narrowing the spaces between the metallic network , and , therefore , improvements in the design of the metal stents should reduce the occlusion rate to or below that of plastic endoprostheses , which currently have a lower encrustation rate . the major advantages of expandable metal prostheses are the relative ease and the minimal trauma of the implantation procedure . the wallstent endoprosthesis , in particular , can be inserted through a 7-f introducer sheath and offers the chance of single-step placement . the 30-day mortality rate , therefore , was only 5 % . this is significantly lower than the 30-day mortality rate after insertion of plastic prostheses ( 15 % to 24 % ) . even simple external catheter drainage procedures have a higher reported 30-day mortality rate ( 27 % ) . expandable metal endoprostheses would be the most useful device if the occlusion rate could be kept under 10 % in large series . increasing the length of the endoprostheses to 10 cm in the expanded state could also improve the long-term patency rates . 
percutaneous biliary drainage for high obstruction . pbd is the preferred route of palliative drainage for patients with high biliary obstruction . the frequency of bifurcational obstruction in this setting requires familiarity with drainages from both the right and the left transhepatic approach . the preferred right transhepatic approach is fluoroscopically guided ; on the left , ultrasonography is the guidance of choice . large caliber drainage catheters are required , and dilatation of the necessary transhepatic tracts is extremely painful unless adequate inhalation anesthesia or , preferably , epidural anesthesia , is provided . long-term biliary drainage requires a choice between internal-external external drainage catheters and endoprostheses that is made by considering the patient 's life expectancy and his or her adjustment to a stent extending to the outside . the feasibility of corrective procedures if an internal-external drainage catheter or an endoprosthesis becomes blocked needs to be considered before definitive placement . the interventional radiologist becomes intimately involved in the follow-up care of patients and frequently has to direct appropriate patient evaluation . familiarity with antibiotic regimens is important . 
clinical experience with biliary extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy . biliary lithotripsy is a new and important development in the nonsurgical management of gallbladder , cystic duct , and bile duct stones . most patients do not require general or epidural anesthesia with newer second-generation machines . patient selection and the use of adjuvant therapy to aid fragment clearance are important issues that are discussed . results from different centers are compared but few long-term results are yet available , i.e. , longer than 18 months . 
acute respiratory disease in spain : seven years of experience the clinical and epidemiologic features of viral and nonviral pathogens involved in acute respiratory diseases are described in the context of cases of infection ( especially atypical pneumonia and bronchiolitis ) studied at the centro nacional de microbiologia , virologia e immunologia sanitarias in madrid during a 7-year period ( 1979-1986 ) . these etiologies were demonstrated in 1,637 ( 36.2 % ) of 4,521 cases . among viruses , respiratory syncytial virus most frequently infected children ; influenza virus showed the same pattern of circulation as in other european countries . of nonviral agents , mycoplasma pneumoniae and c. burnetii were most often involved in lower respiratory tract infections , with a variable predominance in patients of different ages . a high proportion of cases of m. pneumoniae infection occurred in infants and children aged less than 1 year , and most of these cases occurred during spring and summer . the majority of q fever cases , including those observed in two outbreaks , occurred in the northern region . 
tuberculous psoas muscle abscess following chemoprophylaxis with isoniazid in a patient with human immunodeficiency virus infection . a 34-year-old man with human immunodeficiency virus infection and disseminated mycobacterium avium and mycobacterium intracellulare infection developed a right psoas muscle abscess due to mycobacterium tuberculosis . the abscess occurred 18 months after completion of a 12-month course of chemoprophylaxis with isoniazid that was given because of a positive reaction with purified protein derivative of tuberculin . the adjacent vertebrae did not appear to be involved . the abscess was drained with a percutaneously inserted catheter , and he received standard antituberculous chemotherapy . three weeks into therapy , a second drainage with a catheter was required . the isolation of two mycobacteria in this patient and the apparent failure of chemoprophylaxis with isoniazid are noted . 
postoperative pancreatic abscess due to plesiomonas shigelloides . plesiomonas shigelloides is being recognized with increasing frequency as a human pathogen . the organism is ubiquitous in fresh and brackish water , and clinical illness has been associated with foreign travel and ingestion of inadequately cooked seafood . we describe a 64-year-old filipino woman who presented 2 weeks after elective cholecystectomy and pancreatic biopsy with left upper quadrant pain , abdominal distention , and fever . computerized tomography of the abdomen revealed an abscess in the tail of the pancreas with fluid accumulation in the lesser omental sac . percutaneous aspiration yielded purulent material , and p. shigelloides was recovered in pure culture . to our knowledge , this is the first reported case of pancreatic abscess due to p. shigelloides . 
emphysematous gastritis : case report and review . emphysematous gastritis is a condition involving gastric wall inflammation , radiologic or intraoperative evidence of intramural gas , and systemic toxicity . a recent case of emphysematous gastritis in a 57-year-old diabetic man is reported , and 27 cases published since 1889 are reviewed . predisposing factors include ingestion of corrosive substances ( 37 % ) and alcohol abuse ( 22 % ) . diagnosis of emphysematous gastritis is based on the clinical presentation of an acute abdomen with systemic toxicity and on radiographs demonstrating gas bubbles within the stomach wall . for the case reported herein , computed tomography was useful both in establishing the diagnosis and in following the resolution of emphysematous gastritis . organisms most commonly involved were escherichia coli ( six cases ) , streptococcus species ( six cases ) , enterobacter species ( five cases ) , and pseudomonas aeruginosa ( three cases ) . the mortality was 61 % ( 17 of 28 patients ) , and morbidity with gastric contractures occurred in 21 % of cases ( 6 of 28 ) . optimal therapy has not been defined ; however , antimicrobial chemotherapy and surgery , when appropriate , may improve survival rates . 
tropical neuromyelopathies and retroviruses : a review . debilitating disorders of the nervous system have a relatively high prevalence in the tropics , a geographic region that is often deficient in specialists in the fields of neurology and epidemiology . during world war ii , attention was called to a possible nutritional origin for most of these diseases . recently , however , human t lymphotropic virus type i ( htlv-i ) , formerly linked only to a rare form of leukemia ( adult t cell leukemia ) , has been associated with a spastic paraplegia observed mostly in tropical areas and referred to as tropical spastic paraparesis . this entity is also observed in nontropical areas endemic for htlv-i , including japan , south america , and the southern united states . viruses of the htlv family are being associated increasingly with pathology in humans . the pathogenesis of htlv-i-associated tropical spastic paraparesis remains to be understood . however , future research is expected to favor a multidisciplinary approach , with exciting potential insights derived from the fields of neurology , immunology , and infectious diseases . the aim of this review is to summarize contemporary research related to the viral etiology of this clinical entity . 
detection of bcr-abl fusion in chronic myelogeneous leukemia by in situ hybridization . chronic myelogeneous leukemia ( cml ) is genetically characterized by fusion of the bcr and abl genes on chromosomes 22 and 9 , respectively . in most cases , the fusion involves a reciprocal translocation t ( 9 ; 22 ) ( q34 ; q11 ) , which produces the cytogenetically distinctive philadelphia chromosome ( ph1 ) . fusion can be detected by southern ( dna ) analysis or by in vitro amplification of the messenger rna from the fusion gene with polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) . these techniques are sensitive but can not be applied to single cells . two-color fluorescence in situ hybridization ( fish ) was used with probes from portions of the bcr and abl genes to detect the bcr-abl fusion in individual blood and bone marrow cells from six patients . the fusion event was detected in all samples analyzed , of which three were cytogenetically ph1-negative . one of the ph1-negative samples was also pcr-negative . this approach is fast and sensitive , and provides potential for determining the frequency of the abnormality in different cell lineages . 
down-regulation of lfa-1 adhesion receptors by c-myc oncogene in human b lymphoblastoid cells . the function of the c-myc gene and its role in tumorigenesis are poorly understood . in order to elucidate the role of c-myc oncogene activation in b cell malignancy , the phenotypic changes caused by the expression of c-myc oncogenes in human b lymphoblastoid cells immortalized by epstein-barr virus were analyzed . c-myc oncogenes caused the down-regulation of lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1 ( lfa-1 ) adhesion molecules ( alpha l/beta 2 integrin ) and loss of homotypic b cell adhesion in vitro . down-regulation of lfa-1 occurred by ( i ) posttranscriptional modulation of lfa-1 alpha l-chain rna soon after acute c-myc induction , and ( ii ) transcriptional modulation in cells that chronically express c-myc oncogenes . analogous reductions in lfa-1 expression were detectable in burkitt lymphoma cells carrying activated c-myc oncogenes . since lfa-1 is involved in b cell adhesion to cytotoxic t cells , natural killer cells , and vascular endothelium , these results imply functions for c-myc in normal b cell development and lymphomagenesis . 
a mouse model of the aniridia-wilms tumor deletion syndrome . deletion of chromosome 11p13 in humans produces the wagr syndrome , consisting of aniridia ( an absence or malformation of the iris ) , wilms tumor ( nephroblastoma ) , genitourinary malformations , and mental retardation . an interspecies backcross between mus musculus/domesticus and mus spretus was made in order to map the homologous chromosomal region in the mouse genome and to define an animal model of this syndrome . nine evolutionarily conserved dna clones from proximal human 11p were localized on mouse chromosome 2 near small-eyes ( sey ) , a semidominant mutation that is phenotypically similar to aniridia . analysis of dickie 's small-eye ( seydey ) , a poorly viable allele that has pleiotropic effects , revealed the deletion of three clones , f3 , f8 , and k13 , which encompass the aniridia ( an2 ) and wilms tumor susceptibility genes in man . unlike their human counterparts , seydey / + mice do not develop nephroblastomas . these findings suggest that the small-eye defect is genetically equivalent to human aniridia , but that loss of the murine homolog of the wilms tumor gene is not sufficient for tumor initiation . a comparison among sey alleles suggests that the an2 gene product is required for induction of the lens and nasal placodes . 
complications of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation in neonates . in cases of severe respiratory failure , cardiopulmonary bypass has been used as support until cardiac and pulmonary recovery occurs . we report the wilford hall usaf medical center experience with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ecmo ) and its associated complications . from july 1985 to march 1989 , 57 neonates were placed on membrane oxygenators . the overall survival was 79 % . technical complications encountered included catheter-related problems , mechanical complications of the pump apparatus , and hemorrhage . hemorrhagic complications were the most frequent and devastating complications encountered . intracranial hemorrhage accounted for six deaths associated with bypass . extracorporeal membrane oxygenation is successful in significantly improving survival of neonates whose predicted mortality approaches 100 % with conventional treatment . the rate of infant mortality using the membrane oxygenator is not affected by technical complications related to catheter position , mechanical problems with the circuit , or hemorrhage , excluding intracranial hemorrhage . the major cause of death of infants receiving extracorporeal membrane oxygenation is the underlying disease process leading to cardiopulmonary failure . 
analysis of the two-team approach to anterior spinal fusion . an anterior approach to the spine via a thoracoabdominal incision offers the surgeon many advantages . the major vascular structures are visualized , stabilization of a long segment of the spine is strong , and recovery is speedy . nevertheless , this is a major operation and one with potential morbidity and mortality . at children 's hospital of new orleans , the pediatric surgery and pediatric orthopedic surgery services work together to reduce these risks and in so doing maintain an acceptable morbidity . with this two-team approach ; we operated on the spines of 39 patients between 1978 and 1988 . the most common indications for operation included idiopathic scoliosis , neuromuscular disease , and congenital abnormalities . a thoracoabdominal approach was used in 32 patients , a thoracic approach in four patients , and an abdominal approach in three patients . twenty-nine patients experienced 65 complications ; 45 of these complications were respiratory in nature . there were no postoperative deaths . factors unrelated to the incidence of postoperative complications included age , volume of crystalloid infused during operation , volume of blood replacement , and length of anesthesia . 
persistent segmental cutaneous anesthesia after a brown recluse spider bite . patients with brown recluse spider bites commonly suffer from pain , muscular aching , and a variety of local dysesthesias during the acute and resolution phases of toxin-induced injury . this is our first well-documented observation of persistent cutaneous anesthesia caused by a spider bite . the anesthetic area conformed to the distribution of a specific nerve , the transverse cervical cutaneous nerve . the identification of the spider as a brown recluse and the location of the bite over the nerve 's usual pathway strongly suggest that the venom was responsible for this complication . 
isolated erythroid hypoplasia and renal insufficiency induced by long-term griseofulvin therapy . we describe a patient with hematuria , pyuria , eosinophiluria , decreased renal function , and severe anemia that developed while she was receiving chronic therapy with griseofulvin for onychomycosis . we offer evidence that griseofulvin can cause an isolated erythroid hypoplasia and possibly an allergic interstitial nephritis . this is the first documented case of the above entities induced by the agent . we would recommend , based on our report , that otherwise healthy patients , when maintained on the drug for extended periods of time , have periodic determinations of renal function and hematologic status . as drug-induced erythroid hypoplasia typically occurs after a relatively long period of dosing , it may be prudent in certain individuals to monitor the cbc at approximately bimonthly intervals after initiation of therapy . recommendations regarding monitoring of renal function are more difficult , as acute allergic interstitial nephritis can occur after either short - or long-term exposure to certain drugs . 
arteriovenous malformation of the tongue . polyvinyl alcohol particles used to embolize an arteriovenous malformation of the tongue were only temporarily successful . additional embolization therapy was necessary and was complicated by ischemic ulcers of the tongue . we conclude that embolization therapy can be used , but the efficacy of this therapy in the longer term remains to be determined . 
pseudohypoglycemia in adult victims of adolescent incest . two patients with complaints of hypoglycemia came for evaluation , and both complained of intermittent episodes of mental dullness , disorientation , confusion , and palpitations relieved by eating . plasma glucose levels at the time of symptoms were always above 70 mg/dl . initial onset of symptoms was within 1 to 2 years after cessation of repeated incest , and on recognition of this , both patients associated the onset of episodes of similar feelings with the acts of incest . recognition of this connection did not decrease the frequency of episodes . both persistently refer to the episodes as " hypoglycemia " despite recognition that no glucose level below 70 mg/dl has been recorded during an episode . recurrent episodes of derealization and depersonalization in both patients appear to be sequelae of adolescent incest experiences , but these patients cling to the label " hypoglycemia , " perhaps in part because they are unwilling to accept a psychiatric diagnosis for their episodes . 
acute obstructive jaundice in the multiple trauma patient . the appearance of acute jaundice in the multiple trauma patient may result from obstruction of the common bile duct by clot . management of this problem may be hindered by a delay in diagnosis , especially where alterations in pigment load and hepatic clearance may have produced the jaundice . a high index of suspicion combined with the judicious use of various noninvasive imaging modalities may be helpful in making the diagnosis . the progression of jaundice in a patient suspected of having acute obstructive hemobilia should prompt rapid operative intervention . at laparotomy , cholangiography or common bile duct exploration should be done . persistent bleeding should be managed initially with angiographic localization and transcatheter embolization ; its failure would necessitate surgical control of the source . 
adenocarcinoma of the appendiceal stump . we have reported the case of a 58-year-old woman with nonspecific abdominal complaints in whom barium enema and subsequent colonoscopy showed a 3 cm lobulated adenocarcinoma within a villous adenoma arising from the appendiceal stump . because such appendiceal malignancies have no specific clinical signs , symptoms , or radiologic features , preoperative diagnosis is extremely difficult , and colonoscopy may be required to clarify radiologically demonstrated irregularities . 
cytomegalovirus in a macerated second trimester fetus : persistent viral inclusions on light and electron microscopy . the macerated stillborn fetus represents at least one third of all perinatal deaths . microscopic examination of these specimens is often unrewarding . we have reported a clinically unsuspected cytomegalovirus infection in a second trimester macerated fetus . cells suggestive of cmv inclusions were identified by light microscopy , but electron microscopy confirmed the presence of viral infection and proved valuable in making the diagnosis even though necrosis was severe . 
left ventricular pseudoaneurysm complicating mitral valve replacement in a 4-year-old child with acute bacterial endocarditis . a 4-year-old child with acute bacterial endocarditis required mitral valve replacement . a left ventricular pseudoaneurysm developed following surgery . the etiology and diagnosis of this complication are discussed . 
1990 volvo award in clinical sciences . lumbar spinal pathology in cadaveric material in relation to history of back pain , occupation , and physical loading . the occurrence of symmetric disc degeneration , anular ruptures , end-plate defects , vertebral body osteophytosis , and facet joint osteoarthrosis was examined radiographically and osteologically in 86 male cadavers for whom occupational , physical loading , and back pain histories were obtained from the men 's families . history of back pain and the parameters of spinal pathology were related to the highest and lowest degrees of physical loading . in multivariate analyses , history of back injury was related to the occurrence of symmetric disc degeneration , anular ruptures , and vertebral osteophytosis . symmetric disc degeneration was associated with sedentary work , and vertebral osteophytosis was related to heavy work . history of back pain was related to occupational physical loading after control for the effects of the other covariates . the results indicate that the least pathology stemmed from moderate or mixed physical loading , but the least back pain was associated with sedentary work . 
comparison of structure , mechanical properties , and functions of lumbar spinal ligaments . the organization of collagen in the supraspinous , interspinous , and longitudinal ligaments , as well as the ligamenta flava , in lumbar spines from human cadavers has been investigated by polarized light microscopy , scanning electron microscopy , and x-ray diffraction . these experiments were performed on ligaments in situ , with their bony attachments undisturbed , and on excised ligaments at a range of applied strains . results were related to the composition ( investigated by standard histologic techniques ) and gross structures ( investigated by light microscopy ) of the ligaments . more importantly , the results were related to the mechanical properties of the ligaments , which include stiffness , failure conditions , stress relaxation , and hysteresis . where necessary , results were supplemented by or compared with those obtained from pig ligaments . mechanical properties were related to postural changes by ligament strains induced in cadaveric specimens , using results from the literature . thus , ligament structures could be related to their physiologic functions . 
preventing postoperative acute bleeding of the upper part of the gastrointestinal tract . two hundred and ninety-eight critically ill patients at risk for the development of postoperative stress ulcers and bleeding were randomized into three groups . the first group comprised 85 patients who received meciadanol , a new bioflavonoid , 500 milligrams every six hours through a nasograstric tube ; the second group comprised 100 patients who received sucralfate ( crushed tablets ) , 1,000 milligrams every six hours through a nasogastric tube , and the third group comprised 113 patients who received an antacid ( maalox [ magnesium aluminum hydroxide gel ] ) through a nasogastric tube at an initial dose of 15 milliliters every hour . the gastric ph was measured hourly and titrated to a ph greater than or equal to 4.0 in patients in the group receiving the antacid . the gastric ph was measured every two hours in the other two groups . bleeding in the upper part of the gastrointestinal tract was determined visually ( frank blood in gastric contents ) or by guaiac testing . bleeding occurred in seven patients receiving meciadanol , nine receiving sucralfate and six receiving the antacid . the difference in rates of bleeding was not statistically significant . correlation between the severity of illness index and the development of bleeding was poor , at least in the low and intermediate index range . in contrast , there was a strong correlation between the age of the patient and the development of bleeding . only one patient younger than 50 years had bleeding develop . apparently , meciadanol exerts its action by a mechanism other than ph control . it may , therefore , fill an important gap in the ability to prevent postoperative stress ulcers and bleeding . 
stapling or suturing for anastomoses of the left side of the large intestine . two hundred and fifty patients undergoing elective surgical treatment involving anastomoses of the left side of the colon or colon and rectum have been studied in a randomized trial in which the eea ( u. s. surgical corp. ) circular stapler has been compared with single layer sutured anastomoses . only patients in whom either technique was feasible were included in the analysis . the operative techniques were largely standardized . patients were studied by means of a limited barium enema on the ninth or tenth postoperative day . the data have been analyzed for leakage rate ( clinical and roentgenologic ) , other complications and degree of experience of the surgeon . eleven patients were excluded from the analysis because the selected technique could not be carried out ; of these , eight were in the stapled group in which it was possible to perform a sutured anastomosis . there were no instances in which it was possible to staple but not possible to suture . the remaining three exclusions were patients in whom either a coloanal anastomosis or a hartmann procedure was performed . there was no over-all difference in the leakage rate -- roentgenologic , clinical or total -- between the two groups . however , when analyzed by the surgeon , the clinical leakage rate for surgeons in training was greater for sutured anastomoses than for stapled anastomoses ( p = 0.053 ) . thus , it appears that the benefits of experience are more pronounced for sutured anastomoses but that , in experienced hands , neither technique is superior . 
focal nodular hyperplasia of the liver . twenty-four patients underwent biopsy or resection of the liver for focal nodular hyperplasia ( fnh ) at memorial sloan-kettering cancer center from 1978 to 1988 . twenty-two of the patients were women . the mean age was 35 years . a history of antecedent oral contraceptive or conjugated estrogen ( premarin ) use was obtained in 18 of 21 women . there were two men , aged 26 and 37 years ; neither gave a history of hormone use . most of the tumors were solitary ( 22 of 24 ) and located in the left lobe of the liver ( 17 of 22 ) . fifteen of the patients had a prior or simultaneous malignant lesion and six had other benign tumors . most of the tumors were resected with a wedge or subsegment of liver ( 13 of 24 ) . four patients underwent segmentectomy and five required lobectomy for removal of the tumors . two patients had an intraoperative biopsy only . the patients in whom the tumor was diagnosed preoperatively underwent computed tomography and arteriography routinely . scintigraphy of the liver with sulfur colloid was obtained in only three patients , despite its distinct potential for nonoperative diagnosis of fnh . 
intraoperative scintigraphy for active small intestinal bleeding . localizing active sites of bleeding within the small intestine remains a difficult task . endoscopic , angiographic or scintigraphic studies may point to the small intestine as the site of blood loss , but at operation , without a palpable lesion , the exact site of bleeding remains elusive . patients are managed at laparotomy with intraoperative endoscopy , angiography , multiple enterotomies , " blind " resections , or placement of an enterostomy . we describe two patients in whom intraoperative scintigraphy accurately identified active sites of bleeding in the small intestine when other modalities failed . intraoperative scintigraphy is rapid , easy to perform and is an effective means of identifying active sites of bleeding within the small intestine . 
repeat hepatic resection for primary and metastatic carcinoma of the liver . during the last 15 years , 19 patients underwent repeated hepatic resections for malignant lesions of the liver . the first hepatic resection had been performed four to 40 months earlier for treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma ( nine patients ) or hepatic metastases ( ten patients ) , eight of which were of colorectal origin . repeat resection was an extensive hepatectomy in six , a segmentectomy in six and a local excision in seven . in one patient , three wedge resections and , finally , hepatic transplantation were subsequently performed after an initial extended right lobectomy . the operative mortality rate was 5.2 per cent . the three year actuarial survival rate was 64 per cent after the second resection . 
mediastinal tracheostomy using a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap after resection of carcinoma of the esophagus involving the proximal part of the trachea . an operative procedure of mediastinal tracheostomy using a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap is presented . in this procedure , the terminal portion of the trachea penetrates through the center of a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap and the tracheal wall is completely wrapped with the muscular portion of the flap . between 1981 and 1988 , eight patients with carcinoma in the cervicothoracic segment of the esophagus underwent mediastinal tracheostomy after laryngoesophagectomy and extended resection of the proximal part of the trachea through sternal manubrectomy , because of invasion into the trachea . in five of eight patients , a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap was used to construct a tracheal stoma . a skin flap only , or both a skin flap and a muscle flap , was used in the other three . in four of eight patients , tracheal necrosis occurred , and rupture of the brachiocephalic artery occurred in one patient when the tracheal stoma had been constructed using both a skin flap and a muscle flap . however , neither skin breakdown nor bleeding from the major vessels occurred when using the myocutaneous flap . therefore , it is concluded that the construction of the tracheal stoma using a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap is recommended for mediastinal tracheostomy after laryngoesophagectomy with extended resection of the proximal part of the trachea . 
an overview of intimal hyperplasia . many hypotheses have been postulated for the development of intimal hyperplasia in vein and prosthetic grafts . in these hypotheses , the central theme seems to be endothelial injury , but not always denuding injury . as we progress into the biologic era with more sophisticated research tools , the study of the endothelial cell may give us the answers to the problem of intimal hyperplasia . in addition , the leukocyte is still a relatively unknown entity and further modification of their function may hold promise . 
congenital craniofacial anomalies of ophthalmic importance . congenital craniofacial abnormalities frequently require ophthalmic evaluation and surgical management . called upon to perform as part of the craniofacial team managing the often severely deformed craniofacial patient , the ophthalmologist must bring a basic knowledge of craniofacial syndromes and developmental anatomy , as well as clinical acumen to help preserve or improve ocular and adnexal function . as an introduction to this area of ophthalmology , the clinical features , classification , appropriate facial embryology , assessment and surgical considerations of the various congenital craniofacial abnormalities are reviewed . the expanding availability of craniofacial surgeons and surgical teams along with improved surgical results will ultimately require an increasing involvement by many more ophthalmologists in the evaluation and management of these congenital abnormalities . 
high or low hepaticojejunostomy for bile duct strictures ? the 19 patients who underwent 22 postoperative repairs of bile duct stricture in our institution between 1973 and 1984 were evaluated to assess whether the recognition of the tenuous blood supply of the supraduodenal bile duct in 1979 had improved the results thereafter . thirteen of these 22 operations followed a previous biliary tract repair ; in 10 of the operations a low anastomosis had been performed without taking blood supply into account . follow-up was complete and ranged from 5 to 15 years . there were no operative deaths and minimal morbidity . there were three deaths at a later time . five of the 11 patients treated by surgery to 1979 had a clinically unsatisfactory result : recurrent strictures developed in all five patients . all but one of the eight patients receiving a high hepaticojejunostomy from 1980 had a clinically satisfactory result with no recurrent strictures . the one exception was the patient who had a second repair with separate high right and left hepatic duct anastomoses and who has ongoing symptoms from preexisting secondary sclerosing cholangitis . the results in the five high repairs performed for low strictures were particularly striking : all five were asymptomatic . this study lends support to the hypothesis of an ischemic basis for biliary strictures and to the recommendation that strictures be repaired with a high hepaticojejunostomy . 
biliobiliary fistula : preoperative diagnosis and management implications . experience with cholecystohepaticodochal and cholecystocholedochal fistulas as a result of an erosion of gallstones from the gallbladder into the adjacent common duct in five patients is presented . the incidence was 1.4 % in a population of 350 patients undergoing cholecystectomy . the condition was indicated clinically on the basis of a symptom triad of jaundice , fever , and pain with cholelithiasis in a small contracted gallbladder . in addition , proximal intra - and extrahepatic ductal dilatation , calculus in the common duct , and normal-caliber ( or unprofiled ) distal common duct on ultrasound scan were present in all the patients . endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography proved to be the most useful means of investigation , and it confirmed the diagnosis in four patients before surgery . a modified antegrade cholecystectomy was performed with the gallbladder opened inferiorly at the fundus , and the stones were evacuated . a partial cholecystectomy and choledochoplasty were accomplished with gallbladder flaps whenever feasible . other useful operative procedures are side-to-side hepaticodochojejunostomy and hepaticodochoduodenostomy . in the presence of high benign bile duct stricture , an approach to the left hepatic duct is now preferred for biliary bypass . 
hyperbaric oxygen therapy for necrotizing fasciitis reduces mortality and the need for debridements . twenty-nine patients with necrotizing fasciitis were treated from 1980 to 1988 . this study evaluates how the addition of hyperbaric oxygen ( hbo ) therapy to surgical treatment has affected mortality and the number of debridements required to achieve wound control in these patients . two groups of patients were viewed : group 1 ( n = 12 ) received surgical debridement and antibiotics only ; group 2 ( n = 17 ) received hbo ( 90 minutes at 2.5 atm , average 7.4 treatments ) in addition to surgery and antibiotics . both groups were similar in age , race , sex , wound bacteriology , and antimicrobial therapy . body surface area affected was similar , however , perineal involvement was more common in group 2 ( 53 % ) than in group 1 ( 12 % ) . the admitting conditions of patients in group 1 ( non-hbo ) were diabetic , 33 % ; white blood cell count more than 12,000 , 50 % ; and shock , 8 % . the admitting conditions of patients in group 2 ( hbo ) were diabetic , 47 % ; white blood cell count more than 12,000 , 59 % ; and shock , 29 % . although group 2 patients receiving hbo were more seriously ill on admission , mortality was significantly lower ( 23 % ) compared to group 1 ( 66 % ) ( p less than 0.02 ) . in addition , only 1.2 debridements per group 2 patient were required to achieve wound control versus 3.3 debridements per group 1 patient ( p less than 0.03 ) . the addition of hbo therapy to the surgical and antimicrobial treatment of necrotizing fasciitis significantly reduced mortality and wound morbidity ( number of debridements ) in this study , especially among nonclostridial infections . we conclude that hbo should be used routinely in the treatment of necrotizing fasciitis . 
the role of gastric resection in the management of multicentric argyrophil gastric carcinoids . a patient with pernicious anemia , atrophic non-antral gastritis , hypergastrinemia , and widespread hyperplasia of enterochromaffin-like cells and manifest enterochromaffin-like cell carcinoma was followed up during 39 months , including 15 months after gastric resection . in this case normalization of gastrin levels did not prevent the development of multiple gastric carcinoids in the fundic mucosa , suggesting that factors other than gastrin are of importance in the pathogenesis . 
rejection of multivisceral allografts in rats : a sequential analysis with comparison to isolated orthotopic small-bowel and liver grafts . multivisceral isografts and allografts were transplanted to lewis rats , and the histopathologic changes were studied in the liver , intestine , and other constituent organs . rats receiving isografts had indefinite survival with maintenance of weight . with multivisceral allografts ( from brown-norway donors ) , the intestinal component was rejected more severely than the companion liver and with about the same severity as when intestinal transplantation was performed alone . intestinal rejection in either circumstance was a lethal event , causing death in 10 to 12 days . the earliest ( by day 4 ) and most intense cellular rejection was in the peyer 's patches and mesenteric lymph nodes . this was associated with or followed by cryptitis , epithelial cell necrosis , focal abscess formation , mural necrosis , and eventual perforation . liver allografts transplanted alone or as part of multivisceral grafts also had histopathologic evidence of rejection , but this was self-limiting and spontaneously reversible when the liver was transplanted alone . thus the achille 's heel of multivisceral grafts is the intestinal component that is not protected by the presence of the liver in the organ complex . better immunosuppression should permit successful experimental and clinical transplantation of such grafts . 
incisional parapubic hernias . a parapubic hernia , distinct from other lower abdominal wall hernias , is identified as a particular type of incisional hernia . this hernia results from the disruption of the musculotendinous elements of the abdominal wall as they insert into the pubis . this disruption is brought about by either the destruction of these musculotendinous tissues at their lower end or the resection of portions of the pubic bone as is sometimes done in suprapubic radical prostatectomies for easier access to the prostate . seven cases have been identified and reported . men and women were seen to make up a clinical picture that is suggestive of the diagnosis , namely , multiple previous operations through the lower abdominal wall , procedures of a gynecologic or urologic nature , a herniation that mimics an incisional or inguinal hernia , and a defect that can not possibly be corrected without the use of a prosthesis . when the diagnosis is accurately established , the polypropylene mesh is inserted in the preperitoneal space and anchored laterally to the ligaments of cooper and in between to the arcuate pubic ligament and the periosteum of the posterior aspect of the pubis . excellent results have been obtained , and the success must be ascribed to the recognition of the parapubic hernia as a distinct entity . 
molecular biology of circulatory shock . part iii . human hepatoblastoma ( hepg2 ) cells demonstrate two patterns of shock-induced gene expression that are independent , exclusive , and prioritized . during shock and resuscitation , parenchymal cells of solid organs are exposed to a rapidly changing microenvironment , which may include a reduced oxygen tension and an increased concentration of certain cytokines including tumor necrosis factor alpha and interleukin-1 . in vivo experiments that testedl iver biopsied from pigs undergoing cardiogenic shock and resuscitation demonstrated several patterns of gene expression . to study the independent and additive influences of hypoxia and of cytokines in vitro , human hepatoblastoma ( hepg2 ) cells were perturbed by hypoxia/reoxygenation ( h/r ) , by heat shock , and by the cytokines interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor alpha alone and in combination . h/r induces new patterns of protein synthesis and secretion that are indistinguishable from those induced by heat shock and independent of the acute-phase response mediated by the cytokines . the h/r ( heat-shock ) response has priority over and will extinguish gene expression supported by the cytokines . this previously unrecognized hierarchy of stress gene expression could well form the molecular basis of shock-related cell and organ failure . 
high ethanol consumption as risk factor for intracerebral hemorrhage in young and middle-aged people . we examined the prevalence of high ethanol intake , hypertension , and other risk factors for intracerebral hemorrhage in a case-control study of 24 young and middle-aged patients with intracerebral hemorrhage . we recorded ethanol consumption , history of hypertension , liver disease , cigarette smoking , and mild or severe coagulation disorder in each case of intracerebral hemorrhage and in 48 control patients matched by sex and age . in univariate matched analyses , the frequencies of high ethanol intake ( p = 0.009 ) , hypertension ( p = 0.05 ) , and coagulation disorder ( p = 0.05 ) were higher in the cases than in the controls . after controlling for possible confounding factors , we found that high ethanol intake and hypertension were the only independent risk factors for intracerebral hemorrhage ( p = 0.02 and p = 0.05 , respectively ) . the hemorrhagic lesion found in cases with a high ethanol intake tended to be located in the cerebral lobes ( p = 0.01 ) , contrasting with the typical basal ganglia location of hypertensive hematomas ( p = 0.009 ) . we conclude that chronic , high ethanol intake should be considered as an important risk factor for lobar hematomas in young and middle-aged people . 
surgical experience with cerebral amyloid angiopathy . cerebral amyloid angiopathy can present as lobar intracerebral hemorrhage in an elderly person , presumably due to increased fragility of the vessels affected by amyloid deposition . for this reason , patients presenting with intracerebral hemorrhage and suspected of having cerebral amyloid angiopathy have often been treated nonsurgically . since 1983 we have evaluated 11 patients with cerebral amyloid angiopathy ( nine women and two men , mean age 73 years ) who have undergone either intracerebral hematoma evacuation or brain biopsy . nine of the 11 patients presented with intracerebral hemorrhage , which was unilobar in three patients and multilobar in six and involved the parietal lobes seven times , the frontal lobes four times , the temporal lobes four times , and the occipital lobes twice . these nine patients underwent hematoma removal , with no cases of abnormal intraoperative bleeding or recurrent hemorrhage . six patients improved neurologically , and two were unchanged after hematoma evacuation ; the remaining patient had a fatal cardiopulmonary arrest during the immediate postoperative period . during follow-up in seven patients ( median 11 months , range 1 week to 74 months ) none experienced a recurrent intracerebral hemorrhage and four continued to improve . two of the 11 patients had cerebral amyloid angiopathy diagnosed by brain biopsy as part of an evaluation for dementia , also without surgical complications . this series suggests that patients with cerebral amyloid angiopathy may safely undergo operative procedures , and patients presenting with intracerebral hemorrhage may show neurologic improvement following evacuation of the hematoma . 
remote effect of deep-seated vascular brain lesions on cerebral blood flow . we measured regional cerebral blood flow using the xenon-133 inhalation method , at approximately 1 month after onset , in 60 stroke patients who had no evidence of major carotid artery stenosis or occlusion . their single lesions ( 43 infarcts and 17 hematomas ) were located in the capsulothalamolenticular region , sparing the cortex . hemispheric mean cerebral blood flow was reduced on the side of the lesion in 25 patients and on both sides in 20 . regional hypoperfusion was observed in 46 patients ( ipsilaterally in 34 , bilaterally in 10 , and contralaterally in two ) . regional hypoperfusion was observed most frequently in the frontal lobe , particularly in the motor and premotor cortices of the prerolandic area . the 46 patients with regional hypoperfusion were compared with the 14 patients without regional hypoperfusion , considering the size and location of the lesion as well as the functional and analytic motor performances . as a rule , the lesion was slightly smaller and more posterior and the functional ( p less than 0.001 ) and analytic ( p less than 0.05 ) motor performances were significantly better in the 14 patients without regional hypoperfusion . since the xenon-133 inhalation method examines cortical blood flow , we can attribute blood flow reductions resulting from deep-seated lesions to a functional depression akin to diaschisis . interpretation of the clinical consequences and pathogenesis of this phenomenon requires further sequential and pathologic studies . 
effect of emitted power on waveform intensity in transcranial doppler this study assesses the problem of transcranial doppler recording failure and seeks to determine the extent to which this can be ameliorated by increased emitted power . we hypothesized that waveform intensity is directly related to the rate and quality of successful recording and may be compared quantitatively among groups of patients . among a large group of patients recorded at 800 mw/cm2 emitted power , intensity was strongest in white men , weakest in black women , and intermediate in black men and white women . it declined with age in women of either race , but not in men of either race . analysis of the effect of emitted power on intensity predicted that significant numbers of waveforms recorded at 800 mw/cm2 could not be recorded at the current clinical standards of 100 mw/cm2 , the difference being most pronounced in elderly black women . temporal bone window thickness measured in a series of adult cadaver skulls was least in white men , greatest in black women , and intermediate in black men and white women . the findings of this study support the hypothesis that temporal bone window thickness is an important determinant of recording difficulty and suggest that increased emitted power can significantly increase successful recording , particularly in black and elderly patients . increased power alone , however , can not completely solve the recording problem within safe limits . 
rebleeding from intracranial dissecting aneurysm in the vertebral artery . we describe two patients with rebleeding from intracranial vertebral artery dissecting aneurysms during the acute stage . one patient had excellent results after emergency surgery . a review of recent reports including 60 patients with this disorder revealed a rebleeding rate of 30 % , mostly during the acute stage . this suggests that a ruptured dissecting aneurysm in the vertebral artery is at risk for rebleeding during the acute stage , similar to a saccular aneurysm in the same location . 
genetics of cerebrovascular disease . stroke is a complex disease , with both genetic and environmental factors having a role in its pathogenesis . a review of past studies shows some evidence of genetic influences in the development of stroke . this is supported by studies of cardiovascular disease , which indicate major genetic influences at several levels including the development of risk factors . new approaches to phenotypic classifications , patient ascertainment , and genetic analysis will stimulate research into the role of genetics in cerebrovascular disease . 
modification of stroke susceptibility by genotype-dependent maternal influences . the influence of the prenatal and postnatal maternal environment on stroke susceptibility was evaluated by reciprocally crossing the spontaneously hypertensive ( shr ) and the dahl salt-sensitive ( ss/jr ) inbred rat strains to produce reciprocal f1 hybrids that were nurtured , respectively , during prenatal and postnatal life by shr or ss/jr mothers . following placement on a high-salt diet containing 8 % nacl at 35 days of age , f1 rats reared by shr mothers had shorter survival times and were more likely to die with cerebral hemorrhage than f1s reared by ss/jrs . across reciprocal f1 female groups , enhanced susceptibility to stroke was associated with greater elevations of systolic blood pressure , but this association was not seen across reciprocal f1 male groups . there was also an association between blood pressure and stroke within each f1/gender subgroup : rats eventually suffering strokes developed higher blood pressure after placement on the high-salt diet than rats that did not suffer stroke . lower day 35 body weights ( before exposure to the high-salt diet ) were associated with greater likelihood of stroke both across the reciprocal f1 groups , and within three of the four f1/gender subgroups . the differences in stroke susceptibility between the reciprocal f1 groupings may be due to systematic differences in the prenatal and/or postnatal environments of shr and ss/jr mothers and may be mediated by variations in the nutritive capacity of the two inbred mothers . 
multilevel transneuronal degeneration after brain damage . behavioral events and effects of anticonvulsant gamma-aminobutyric acid-related drugs . recent morphologic and behavioral studies of the effects of gamma-aminobutyric acid agents on transsynaptic degeneration after cortical and striatal damage are reviewed and discussed . following unilateral lesions of the anteromedial cortex , mild atrophy appears in the ipsilateral striatum and substantia nigra pars reticulata . long-term diazepam administration greatly enhances this degeneration , extends the degeneration into the thalamus , and severely disrupts recovery from somatosensory asymmetries . following unilateral excitotoxic lesions of the striatum , progressive degeneration of neurons occurs in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and efferent targets in the thalamus . this degeneration can be prevented by chronic infusion of muscimol , a gamma-aminobutyric acid agonist . unexpectedly , this treatment did not facilitate recovery from somatosensory asymmetries . recovery in muscimol-treated animals was impaired relative to saline-treated controls . thus , gamma-aminobutyric acid agonists either may enhance or prevent neural atrophy secondary to brain damage , but the behavioral outcome appears to depend importantly on the excitatory and inhibitory characteristics of the affected networks . 
neurogenic control of the cerebral circulation during global ischemia . the influence of the trigeminal nerve on the cerebral circulation was investigated in chronically denervated cats during and after reversible four-vessel occlusion for 10 minutes combined with controlled hypotension ( 50 mm hg ) . postocclusive hyperemia 30 minutes after reperfusion was attenuated by up to 48 % in cortical gray matter of the anterior , middle , and posterior cerebral artery territories on the side of trigeminal ganglionectomy . similar results were observed for denervation accomplished by direct surgical ablation and by the topical application of capsaicin to a cortical branch of the middle cerebral artery . denervation did not alter basal cerebral blood flow or the duration of hyperemia , nor did it impair the cerebrovascular response to hypercapnia . these data demonstrate the importance of neurogenic mechanisms in the development of postischemic hyperperfusion and suggest that strategies directed at blocking axon reflex-like mechanisms may be beneficial in reducing the morbidity that follows severe cortical hyperemia . 
spreading depression-like depolarization and selective vulnerability of neurons . a brief review . if oxygen is withdrawn from rat hippocampal slices , a spreading depression-like response occurs earlier and is of larger amplitude in the ca1 area than in the dentate gyrus . after reoxygenation , recovery of synaptic transmission correlates inversely with the time spent in spreading depression . recovery occurs more frequently in dentate gyrus than in ca1 . chlorpromazine and the gangliosides gm1 and agf2 promote recovery from hypoxic depression of synaptic transmission in ca1 . prevention of irreversible loss of function correlates closely with a shortening of the time spent in spreading depression . if ca2 + is withdrawn before hypoxia , then synaptic function recovers upon restoration of oxygen and [ ca2 + ] o , despite prolonged spreading depression . when spreading depression lasting more than 6-9 minutes is induced in fully oxygenated slices by superfusion with high-k + solution , then transient recovery is followed by long-lasting loss of synaptic function . in intact brain of anesthetized rats , synaptic transmission in ca1 recovers after spreading depression-like depolarization lasting more than 30 minutes , but is lost irreversibly after 60 minutes . we conclude that entry of ca2 + into neurons caused by spreading depression-like depolarization is important in the selective vulnerability of neurons ; the duration of depolarization is critical to cell survival ; and in the presence of a normal blood supply , neurons resist protracted spreading depression-like depolarization . 
possible mechanisms limiting n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor overactivation and the therapeutic efficacy of n-methyl-d-aspartate antagonists . cytotoxic overactivation of neuronal n-methyl-d-aspartate receptors is postulated to contribute to the pathogenesis of neuronal loss in hypoxia-ischemia . however , several events associated with hypoxia-ischemia may limit n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor-mediated injury . perhaps the most important of these events is the development of extracellular acidosis . these limiting events may help explain why n-methyl-d-aspartate receptors contribute to injury more in focal ischemia or hypoxia in vitro than in global ischemia . 
the pathophysiology of anoxic injury in central nervous system white matter . white matter of the mammalian brain is susceptible to anoxic injury , but little is known about the pathophysiology of this process . we studied the mechanisms of anoxic injury in white matter using the isolated rat optic nerve , a typical central nervous system white-matter tract . optic nerve function , measured as the area under the compound action potential , rapidly failed when exposed to anoxia . postanoxic recovery was variable , depending on duration of the anoxic insult ; after a standard 60-minute period of anoxia , the compound action potential recovered to 28.5 % of control . irreversible anoxic injury was critically dependent on extracellular ca2 + ; maintaining the tissue in zero [ ca2 + ] solution throughout the anoxic period resulted in 100 % compound action potential recovery . increasing perfusate [ ca2 + ] during anoxia from zero to 4 mm resulted in progressively less recovery . anoxic damage to the optic nerve appears to depend on the gradual accumulation ( over tens of minutes ) of ca2 + in a cytoplasmic compartment . the inorganic ca2 + channel blockers mn2 + ( 1 mm ) , co2 + ( 1 mm ) , or la3 + ( 0.1 mm ) had no effect on recovery of the compound action potential after anoxia ; only mg2 + ( 10 mm ) significantly improved recovery . treatment with the dihydropyridine ca2 + channel blockers nifedipine ( 1-10 microm ) or nimodipine ( 1-40 microm ) also had no effect on recovery from anoxia . thus , ca2 + influx during anoxia does not occur via conventional ca2 + channels . preliminary evidence suggests that this ca2 + influx may occur via other cation channels that are imperfectly selective for ca2 + or via the na ( + ) - ca2 + exchanger . 
management of peyronie disease by implantation of inflatable penile prosthesis . sixty-seven patients with advanced peyronie disease were treated by implantation of an inflatable penile prosthesis ( ipp ) . twenty-eight of the 67 patients had documented total erectile failure . the remaining 39 patients had significant penile curvature causing " mechanical impotence " due to inability to achieve adequate vaginal penetration and chose implantation of an inflatable penile prosthesis ( in some cases , combined with a straightening procedure ) rather than one of the standard penile straightening procedures . currently , 63 of the 67 patients have functioning prosthetic devices ; in 3 other patients the device was removed because of infection , and 1 patient was dissatisfied and had the device removed . for impotent patients with severe peyronie disease for whom other medical or surgical treatment is neither desirable nor suitable , we recommend implantation of an inflatable penile prosthesis combined with a possible straightening procedure . 
biochemical evaluation of calcium stone patients : how soon can it be done after stone surgery/passage ? biochemical evaluations were done two times for 29 outpatients with calcium stone disease , the first time within one month after surgical extraction or passage of stones and the second time two months or more later . classification of the etiologic basis for the stone disease was the same after both tests in 27 patients . in the other 2 patients the diagnosis was changed from renal to absorptive hypercalciuria . both of these patients had creatinine clearance rates less than 60 percent of normal during the first test . one also had multiple residual stones during both evaluations , and the second had a urinary tract infection during the first test that resolved with a normal creatinine clearance by the second test period . when nephrogenous cyclic adenosine monophosphate ( campn ) assays were done on fasting specimens in these patients , the results were consistent with absorptive hypercalciuria . almost all patients can be evaluated and placed in management programs within a few weeks after surgery . if campn assays are not done , patients with decreased renal function secondary to residual stones or infection can be tested at a later time . 
prostatic-type epithelium in urinary bladder . clinical , histologic , and immunohistochemical study . six cases of urinary bladder mucosa with prostate-type epithelium were studied clinically , morphologically , and immunohistochemically . all patients were male with an average age of fifty-three years ; most presented with painless hematuria . histologically , two types of lesions were observed , the polypoid located in various sites of the bladder wall and the flat lesion found in the bladder neck . both lesions shared in common a prostatic-type and transitional surface epithelium while prostatic-type glands were prominent in the polypoid lesion . the prostatic-type epithelium was confirmed immunohistochemically by detection of prostatic specific antigen and prostatic acid phosphatase . based on specific findings we considered the metaplasia as the most reliable histogenetic aspect . 
constipation : pathophysiology and treatment . although many physicians consider constipation a trivial problem , it is one of the most frequent and chronic digestive disorders in the united states , affecting 4.53 million people and causing considerable morbidity . more than $ 200 million are spent for over-the-counter laxatives and untold millions of dollars are spent for prescription drugs and other medical services to manage this disorder . successful management requires an appreciation of the magnitude of the problem , an understanding of colorectal function and a clear assessment of the causes . careful examination of the patient 's anorectal anatomy and improvement in the patient 's dietary habits are the first steps in management . therapeutic options include behavioral modification strategies , diet and lifestyle changes , pharmacologic therapy and , rarely , surgical intervention . 
coronary angioplasty in symptomatic patients after bypass surgery . with the availability of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) , the management of patients who present with recurrent angina following coronary artery bypass surgery ( cabg ) has changed . from january 1987 to december 1988 , 149 symptomatic post cabg patients underwent coronary angiography at our institution . ninety were treated with medical antianginal therapy , 14 had repeat surgery , and 45 underwent ptca . complications of repeat cabg included one death , two perioperative myocardial infarctions , and four patients with postoperative supraventricular arrhythmia . ptca was performed on 42 lesions in 37 native vessels ( 88 % success rate ) , and on 24 lesions in 23 vein grafts ( 91.7 % success rate ) . complications included acute reocclusion ( one patient ) , peripheral artery occlusion ( one patient ) , hematoma formation ( one patient ) , and periprocedure myocardial infarction ( one patient ) . no deaths occurred . at a mean follow-up of 5.9 + / - 3.8 months , 10 patients had recurrent symptoms , six of whom were found to have restenosis . repeat ptca was successfully accomplished in four patients ; the other two were treated medically . it is concluded that ptca is a feasible alternative to repeat cabg in selected patients and can be achieved with a high success rate and minimal complications . 
electrophysiologic effects of exogenous phosphocreatine in cardiac tissue : potential antiarrhythmic actions . the cellular electrophysiologic effects of exogenous phosphocreatine ( pcr ) were analyzed to ascertain its purported antiarrhythmic properties during myocardial ischemia and reperfusion . transmembrane potentials were recorded from isolated guinea pig papillary muscles and purkinje fibers studied in vitro . under control , normoxic conditions , 10 mmol/l pcr significantly increased the action potential duration ( measured at 90 % of repolarization ) in ventricular muscle by 14.6 + / - 3.3 msec and the effective refractory period by 11.5 + / - 3.8 msec ( both p less than 0.01 ) . under ischemic-like conditions ( hypoxia , lactic acidosis , elevated [ k + ] o , zero substrate ) pcr had no effect . phosphocreatinine , a related compound that is not a direct substrate in the creatine kinase reaction , acted similarly to pcr suggesting that alterations induced by pcr did not involve a change in the energy state of cells . however , pcr reduced free [ ca2 + ] o by nearly 20 % , and its electrical effects under normoxic conditions could be largely reversed by a concomitant 20 % increase in [ ca2 + ] o. in purkinje fibers superfused with low [ k + ] o-tyrode 's solution to elicit conditions of ca2 + overload , delayed afterdepolarizations and triggered responses were reversibly inhibited by pcr . these data suggest that the antiarrhythmic effects of pcr in situ may involve prolongation of the effective refractory period in nonischemic tissue or attenuation of membrane changes elicited by ca2 + overload in ischemic cells . the mechanism by which pcr produces these effects may be related in part to changes in extracellular ca2 + composition . 
color doppler diagnosis of mechanical prosthetic mitral regurgitation : usefulness of the flow convergence region proximal to the regurgitant orifice . in prosthetic or paravalvular prosthetic mitral regurgitation , transthoracic color doppler flow mapping can sometimes fail to detect the regurgitant jet within the left atrium because of the shadowing by the prosthetic valve . to overcome this limitation , we assessed the utility of color doppler visualization of the flow convergence region ( fcr ) proximal to the regurgitant orifice in 20 consecutive patients with mechanical prosthetic mitral regurgitation documented by surgery and cardiac catheterization ( 13 of 20 patients ) . in addition , we studied 33 patients with normally functioning mitral prostheses . doppler studies were performed in the apical , subcostal , and parasternal long-axis views . an fcr was detected in 95 % ( 19 of 20 ) of patients with prosthetic mitral regurgitation . a jet area in the left atrium was detected in 60 % ( 12 of 20 ) of patients . in 18 of 19 patients with doppler-detected fcr , the site of the leak was correctly identified by observing the location of the fcr . a trivial jet area was detected in eight patients with a normally functioning mitral prosthesis ; in none was an fcr identified . thus color doppler visualization of the fcr proximal to the regurgitant orifice is superior to the jet area in the diagnosis of mechanical prosthetic mitral regurgitation . moreover , fcr permits localization of the site of the leak with good accuracy . 
patients at risk for cardiac death late after aortic valve replacement . a total of 100 patients aged 24 to 78 years were screened prospectively a mean of 71 months after aortic valve replacement for the presence of left ventricular hypertrophy ( lvh ) on the ecg ( estes scores greater than or equal to 5.0 ) and for repetitive ventricular premature beats vpbs greater than or equal to 2 couplets/24 hr ) during 24-hour holter monitoring . during the subsequent 41-month follow-up ( range 10 to 50 months ) , the yearly cardiac mortality rate was 1.3 % in patients with lvh , 2.9 % in patients with vpbs , and 8.0 % in patients with lvh plus vpbs but only 0.6 % when none of these factors was present ( p less than 0.05 chi 2 test ) . the patient groups did not differ with regard to age , time elapsed since operation , underlying valve lesion , and coronary artery disease . both lvh and vpbs occurred more frequently in patients with left ventricular dysfunction . we conclude that after aortic valve replacement cardiac mortality is markedly increased in patients with lvh and repetitive vpbs , since they are noninvasive markers of left ventricular dysfunction . 
balloon angioplasty of stenosed blalock-taussig anastomosis : role of balloon-on-a-wire in dilating occluded shunts . six children with cyanotic congenital heart defects , aged 6 to 60 months , underwent percutaneous balloon angioplasty of a narrowed blalock-taussig ( bt ) shunt to improve arterial oxygen saturation . the indication for angioplasty was a cyanotic heart defect not amenable to total surgical correction , either because of the age and size at presentation or because of anatomic complexity , but at the same time requiring palliation of pulmonary oligemia . following balloon angioplasty , there was an increase in arterial oxygen saturation from 71 + / - 8 % to 81 + / - 6 % ( p less than 0.05 ) . in one child with long segment narrowing , there was no significant improvement in oxygen saturation , and this child underwent an additional bt shunt on the contralateral side . on follow-up 3 to 12 months after balloon angioplasty , the oxygen saturations remained improved ( 78 + / - 10 % ) in the remaining five patients . in two children with either complete or almost complete blockage of the bt shunt , we were unable to advance any catheter across the shunt but we were able to advance a 2 or 3 mm balloon on a wire and dilate the shunt , followed by introduction of a catheter carrying a larger balloon for angioplasty . this has permitted us to obtain the pulmonary artery pressure directly ( this information was of obvious value in patient management ) and resulted in an improvement in the arterial oxygen saturation . it is concluded that ( 1 ) balloon angioplasty of narrowed bt shunts is feasible , effective , and safe and ( 2 ) even completely occluded shunts can be cannulated and the balloon dilated with the newly available balloon-on-wire devices . 
the evolving pattern of digoxin intoxication : observations at a large urban hospital from 1980 to 1988 . digoxin intoxication has been reported to be a common adverse drug reaction with an in-hospital incidence of 6 % to 23 % and an associated mortality rate as high as 41 % . a retrospective review was conducted to assess the accuracy of diagnosis , the morbidity and mortality of digoxin intoxication , and its incidence in hospitalized patients with heart failure . we reviewed the medical records of 219 patients discharged with the diagnosis of digoxin intoxication between 1980 and 1988 . patients were classified as follows : ( 1 ) definite intoxication -- patients with symptoms and/or arrhythmias suggestive of digoxin intoxication that resolved after discontinuation of digoxin ; ( 2 ) possible intoxication -- patients with symptoms and/or arrhythmias suggestive of digoxin intoxication in the absence of documented resolution after discontinuation of digoxin , or the presence of other clinical illnesses that could possibly account for those findings ; ( 3 ) no intoxication -- patients whose symptoms or ecg abnormalities were clearly explained by other associated clinical illnesses and persisted after withdrawal of digoxin . we identified only 43 patients ( 20 % ) with definite intoxication . the majority of patients discharged with the diagnosis of digoxin intoxication ( 133 or 60 % ) were classified as possibly digoxin intoxicated , and 43 patients ( 20 % ) had no clinical evidence to support this diagnosis . to estimate the incidence of digoxin intoxication , we also reviewed the medical records of 994 patients admitted in 1987 with heart failure . of these , 563 were receiving digoxin and in 27 the diagnosis of digoxin intoxication was made by their clinicians . our review showed that only four were definitely intoxicated ( 0.8 % ) , and the diagnosis could not be excluded in another 16 ( 4 % ) . 
epidemiologic studies demonstrating increased morning incidence of sudden cardiac death . to determine if sudden cardiac death shows a circadian variation , the mortality records of the massachusetts population and the framingham heart study were analyzed . the massachusetts mortality data analysis revealed an increased morning incidence for out-of-hospital cardiac deaths similar to that previously described for nonfatal myocardial infarction . the records of the framingham heart study allowed more comprehensive analysis of the time of sudden cardiac death . in this study , a prominent circadian variation was also identified in which frequency of sudden cardiac death increased sharply between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m. ; distribution was fairly even throughout the rest of the day . this circadian pattern may be explained in part by physiologic changes that increase the likelihood of ventricular fibrillation or increase the risk of thrombosis in the morning hours . the possible role of the morning increase in physical and mental activity as a trigger of sudden cardiac death requires further investigation . 
triggers of transient myocardial ischemia : circadian variation and relation to plaque rupture and coronary thrombosis in stable coronary artery disease . the phenomenon of transient myocardial ischemia is common in patients with stable coronary disease and appears to be due both to increases in myocardial demand and to episodic coronary vasoconstriction . the circadian variation of transient ischemic episodes closely parallels the circadian variation of acute coronary syndromes associated with plaque rupture , such as myocardial infarction and sudden death . these concordant temporal patterns of transient ischemia , myocardial infarction and sudden cardiac death probably represent independent manifestations stemming from the consequences of increased sympathetic activity . 
cause of thrombosis in human atherosclerotic arteries . although it has been known for a long time that thrombosis nearly always develops in atherosclerotic arteries -- and almost never in normal vessels -- the mechanism through which atherosclerosis promotes thrombosis was unknown until this problem was explored through histologic examination of complete serial section sets of thrombosed atherosclerotic arteries . these studies , repeatedly confirmed , revealed that the thrombi are triggered by microscopic cracks in the collagen cap of advanced plaques . blood most often seeps from the arterial lumen through the cracks into the underlying lipid gruel before the breaks or cracks are plugged by the thrombi ( which function as hemostatic seals of the breaks ) . these results are parallel to results of experimental studies in which the synergism of endotheliotoxic and pressor agents produced thrombi over cap breaks and sub-break hemorrhages only in arteries with advanced collagen-rich plaques , not in arteries with early atherosclerosis or in normal vessels . this finding indicates that advanced atherosclerosis makes the arterial wall much more fragile and that , once broken , this wall exposes the blood to powerful thrombogenic materials that do not exist in normal arterial tissue . at present , human and experimental evidence suggest that the thrombogenic fissures of advanced plaque caps can be promoted by several factors , such as a surge in intraarterial pressure or insults that damage the caps structurally and increase their vulnerability to any type of stress such as certain metabolic , exogenous chemical and immune insults , spontaneous molecular changes of collagen with time and hemorrhages of capillaries that invade advanced plaques from the adventitia or the arterial lumen . 
rupture of coronary vasa vasorum as a trigger of acute myocardial infarction . some controversy has always existed regarding the presence and extent of the vasa vasorum -- the nutrient vessels in the wall of the human aorta -- in the coronary arteries . now , cinemicrographic studies using silicone polymer injections in cleared human hearts have identified the vasa vasorum of coronary arteries , revealing evidence of neovascularization in the region of atherosclerotic plaques . these studies suggest an important role for the vasa vasorum in the pathogenesis of coronary atherosclerosis and its sequelae , especially intramural hemorrhage and vascular spasm . the wall of the human coronary artery in regions of atherosclerotic injury may be particularly rich in capillary vessels of the vasa vasorum . from this , the evidence suggests that with the morning increase in blood pressure , fragile neovascular structures of the vasa vasorum may be more prone to rupture and may be responsible , in part , for the circadian variation in myocardial infarction . 
angiographic assessment of the culprit coronary artery lesion before acute myocardial infarction . serial angiographic studies of patients with myocardial infarction and unstable angina suggest that the culprit plaque underlying a thrombus need not have produced severe luminal obstruction before onset of the event . an atherosclerotic coronary artery lesion can , therefore , have 2 important characteristics . first , it may be obstructive . second , it may be " vulnerable " in that it has the potential to become thrombogenic if exposed to the appropriate triggering stimulus . a lesion need not be obstructive to become thrombogenic , nor do all obstructive lesions have thrombogenic potential . the cause of an infarction may thus be rupture of a nonobstructive plaque leading to occlusive thrombus formation . because it may be difficult to predict the site of a subsequent occlusion from a coronary angiogram , coronary bypass surgery or angioplasty directed only at discernible stenotic lesions may not be effective for preventing subsequent myocardial infarctions . appropriate therapy may need to be directed at the entire coronary tree . such therapy might include cholesterol lowering , beta blockade and aspirin . 
propranolol and the morning increase in sudden cardiac death : ( the beta-blocker heart attack trial experience ) . to provide insight into the protective effect of propranolol on mortality after myocardial infarction observed in the beta-blocker heart attack trial , the time of occurrence of sudden cardiac death was examined in this population . between 5 a.m. and 11 a.m. , 25 of the 56 total deaths ( 38 % ) occurred in the placebo patients compared with 11 of 45 ( 24 % ) in the propranolol patients . excluding this period , there were nearly equal numbers of sudden cardiac deaths in the propranolol and placebo groups . this retrospective analysis suggests that beta blockade is protective during the morning hours when a surge of sympathetic activity may increase the risk of sudden cardiac death . 
transient left ventricular cavitary dilation during dipyridamole-thallium imaging as an indicator of severe coronary artery disease . transient left ventricular ( lv ) cavitary dilation during dipyridamole-thallium imaging was reported in 45 of 510 ( 9 % ) consecutive patients referred for dipyridamole-thallium imaging . clinical and hemodynamic effects observed during dipyridamole infusion were not predictive of transient cavitary dilation on the thallium images . coronary angiography was performed in 32 of the 45 patients : 75 % had either left main , 3-vessel or " high-risk " 2-vessel coronary artery disease . although 25 of 45 patients ( 56 % ) with transient cavitary dilation were either asymptomatic or had only grade 1/4 effort angina , 16 of 25 patients ( 64 % ) not referred for coronary revascularization sustained a cardiac event during a mean follow-up of 12 months . most events were cardiac deaths ( 75 % ) and 87 % of events occurred within 4 months of the test . noncardiac surgery was performed in 187 of the 510 patients . the postoperative cardiac event rate was 2 % in the 101 patients with normal scans or fixed defects , 19 % in 75 patients with reversible perfusion defects and 58 % in 12 patients with reversible cavitary dilation ( p less than 0.0001 ) . thus , transient lv dilation during dipyridamole-thallium imaging is a marker of severe underlying coronary artery disease , denotes a poor prognosis and predicts a high risk of postoperative cardiac complications in patients who undergo noncardiac surgery . 
voltage criteria of left ventricular hypertrophy in sudden and nonsudden coronary artery disease mortality : the italian section of the seven countries study . it is unclear whether sudden or nonsudden death can be predicted independently from other risk factors for coronary artery disease ( cad ) . therefore , this investigation was undertaken to measure 12-lead qrs voltage sum , a recently proposed ( am j cardiol 1985 ; 55:485 -494 ) index of left ventricular ( lv ) hypertrophy , and its ability to predict either subsequent sudden ( less than 2 hours ) or nonsudden cad death during 20 to 23 years of follow-up in 1,588 middle aged men ( 40 to 61 years old ) from 2 cohorts of the italian section of the seven countries study who were free of demonstrable cad ( at entry examination in 1962 ) . the sokolow-lyon and the modified sokolow-lyon indexes , 2 standard electrocardiographic methods to detect lv hypertrophy were also measured and compared . during follow-up , 67 patients died suddenly and 87 died a nonsudden cad death . in the cox proportional-hazards model , age , mean blood pressure , heart rate , body mass index , cholesterol , physical activity , smoking habit , st-t alterations ( minnesota codes 4.1 to 4.3 together with 5.1 to 5.3 ) and the 3 electrocardiographic indexes , all measured at the time of enrollment into the study , were included . the 12-lead qrs voltage sum retained significant and independent relation to sudden death ( t = 2.00 ) ; sokolow-lyon index entered the cox solution for nonsudden cad death but the association was inverse ( t = -2.10 ) . st-t alterations were significantly associated only with nonsudden cad death ( t = 2.19 ) . thus , in addition to several known risk factors , measurement of 12-lead qrs voltage sum in middle-aged men without clinical evidence of heart disease may help identify subjects at an increased risk of sudden death ; nonsudden cad death is predicted by sokolow-lyon index and by st-t alterations . the usefulness of these indexes needs to be tested in different populations . 
time course and prognostic significance of serial signal-averaged electrocardiograms after a first acute myocardial infarction . the prognostic significance of serial signal-averaged electrocardiograms recorded during the first 3 days ( period 1 ) , in the second week ( period 2 ) after a first acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) and 6 months later ( period 3 ) was prospectively assessed in 190 patients . no patients were treated with thrombolytic therapy . patients with conduction disturbances were excluded . mean age of the 190 patients was 57 years ( range 34 to 74 ) and mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 40 + 6 % ( range 12 to 70 ) . eighty-four patients had an anterior wall ami and the remaining 106 patients an inferior wall ami . after a mean follow-up of 24 months , 16 patients developed sustained symptomatic monomorphic ventricular tachycardia , 7 patients were resuscitated from an episode of ventricular fibrillation , and 10 patients died suddenly . multivariate regression analysis using continuous variables showed that the strongest predictor of sustained ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation was the left ventricular ejection fraction ( p less than 0.0001 ) followed by the duration of qrs complex on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram recorded during the first 3 days of ami ( p less than 0.0005 ) . sudden death was only predicted by left ventricular ejection fraction ( p less than 0.02 ) . 
prognosis of acute myocardial infarction complicated by primary ventricular fibrillation . principal investigators of the sprint study . in 5,839 consecutive patients with acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) , hospitalized between july 1981 and july 1983 in 14 coronary care units in israel , the incidence of primary ventricular fibrillation ( vf ) was 2.1 % . patients with primary vf resembled counterparts without vf in terms of age , gender , frequency of previous ami and past cigarette smoking habits . the hospital course of patients with primary vf revealed increased incidence of primary atrial fibrillation and atrioventricular block . increased serum levels of glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase and lactic dehydrogenase were noted among the patients with primary vf . in-hospital mortality rate was 18.8 % in 122 patients with primary vf compared with 8.5 % in 3,707 patients forming the reference group ( p less than 0.01 ) . adjustment by age using logistic function yielded an estimate of 2.86 for relative mortality odds associated with primary vf , and further adjustment by gender , history of ami , systemic hypertension , and by enzymatically estimated infarct size slightly reduced the estimated odds , at 2.52 ( 95 % confidence interval , 1.42 to 4.46 ) . prognosis after discharge from the hospital was independent of primary vf . in conclusion , primary vf exerts an independent , significant effect on in-hospital mortality . 
usefulness of labetalol in chronic atrial fibrillation . beta-adrenergic blocking agents are useful in controlling excessive ventricular rate in chronic atrial fibrillation ( af ) but often reduce exercise capacity . to investigate the advantage of labetalol -- a unique beta blocker with alpha-blocking property -- in chronic af , 10 patients without underlying structural heart disease were studied with treadmill test , 12-minute walk and 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring . patients were randomized and crossed over to receive 4 phases of treatment ( placebo , digoxin , digoxin with half-dose labetalol , and full-dose labetalol ) . exercise durations were 14.1 + / - 1.5 , 14.2 + / - 1.5 , 16.1 + / - 1.1 and 15.6 + / - 1.1 minutes , respectively , indicating that labetalol did not reduce exercise tolerance . although digoxin had no advantage over placebo in controlling maximal heart rate ( 177 + / - 2 vs 175 + / - 3 beats/min ) , labetalol , both as monotherapy or as an adjunct to digoxin , was advantageous ( 156 + / - 4 vs 177 + / - 2 beats/min , p less than 0.01 , and 154 + / - 4 vs 177 + / - 2 beats/min , p less than 0.01 , respectively ) . the rate-pressure product was consistently lowered by labetalol at rest and during exercise . at peak exercise , the addition of labetalol to digoxin reduced the maximal rate-pressure product achieved from 30,900 + / - 1300 to 24,100 + / - 2,000 mm hg/min ( p less than 0.01 ) and the maximal rate-pressure product was lowest with full-dose labetalol ( 22,300 + / - 1,600 mm hg/min ) . during submaximal exercise on treadmill or during the 12-minute walk , the combination of labetalol and digoxin produced the best heart rate control , whereas labetalol monotherapy was comparable to digoxin therapy . 
usefulness of combined propranolol and verapamil for evaluation of surgical ablation of accessory atrioventricular connections in patients without structural heart disease . successful surgical ablation of atrioventricular ( av ) accessory connections may be confirmed during postoperative electrophysiologic testing by the absence of accessory connection conduction in both the anterograde and retrograde directions . whereas the former may be readily apparent by examination of the surface electrocardiogram during sinus rhythm or atrial pacing , assessment of the latter may be complicated by the frequent presence of enhanced retrograde av nodal conduction in the postoperative period . consequently , availability of interventions that selectively affect av nodal conduction and refractoriness without concomitant effects on accessory connections may be helpful for assessing the success of the surgical procedure . in this study the effects of combined propranolol and verapamil administration on electrophysiologic properties of the av node and the accessory av connection were assessed both pre - and postoperatively in 17 patients ( 12 men and 5 women , mean age 33 years ) undergoing surgical ablation of accessory connections . preoperatively , electrophysiologic characteristics of all but 1 of the accessory av connections were unaffected by propranolol and verapamil administration . postoperatively , on the other hand , propranolol and verapamil significantly prolonged both the retrograde av node effective refractory period ( baseline : 272 + / - 34 ms vs after drugs : 384 + / - 70 ms [ p less than 0.0001 ] ) and the shortest cycle length maintaining 1:1 ventriculoatrial conduction ( baseline : 357 + / - 99 ms vs after drugs : 485 + / - 64 ms [ p less than 0.0001 ] ) . late postoperative electrophysiologic evaluation ( 7 + / - 3 weeks ) revealed no evidence of residual accessory av connection conduction , and all patients remain asymptomatic at 21 + / - 10 months follow-up . 
growth , thermogenesis , and hyperphagia . resting metabolic rate is demonstrated to be a function of fat-free mass and a growth variable related to food-energy-input imbalance rate . by use of obligatory energy expenditure terms , the two-reservoir energy model applied to hyperphagia shows that growth of the fat-free mass is rapid whereas that of the fat store is slow and that the growth of both is bounded . most of the excess energy at the onset of hyperphagia initially goes into the fat store , but this decreases with time until the greater fraction is diverted to the fat-free mass . the two-reservoir model predicts that weight gain per unit of excess energy is not constant but decreases monotonically until ultimately reaching an asymptotic value . departure of theory and experiment in the long term suggests that facultative considerations become increasingly important . 
maintenance and relapse after weight loss in women : behavioral aspects . obese women who regained weight after successful weight reduction ( relapsers , n = 44 ) ; formerly obese , average-weight women who maintained weight loss ( maintainers , n = 30 ) ; and women who had always remained at the same average , nonobese weight ( control subjects , n = 34 ) were interviewed . most maintainers ( 90 % ) and control subjects ( 82 % ) exercised regularly , were conscious of their behaviors , used available social support ( 70 % and 80 % , respectively ) , confronted problems directly ( 95 % and 60 % , respectively ) , and used personally developed strategies to help themselves . few relapsers exercised ( 34 % ) , most ate unconsciously in response to emotions ( 70 % ) , few used available social support ( 38 % ) , and few confronted problems directly ( 10 % ) . these findings suggest the advisability of development and prospective evaluation of individualized treatment programs designed to enhance exercise , coping skills , and social support . 
effects of common illnesses on infants ' energy intakes from breast milk and other foods during longitudinal community-based studies in huascar ( lima ) , peru . to assess the effects of common infections on dietary intake , 131 peruvian infants were observed longitudinally . home surveillance for illness symptoms was completed thrice weekly , and food and breast-milk consumption was measured during 1615 full-day observations . mean ( + / - sd ) energy intakes on symptom-free days were 557 + / - 128 kcal/d ( 92.4 + / - 26.5 kcal.kg-1 . d-1 ) for infants aged less than 181 d and 638 + / - 193 kcal/d ( 77.7 + / - 25.7 kcal.kg-1 . d-1 ) for infants aged greater than 180 d. statistical models controlling for infant age , season of the year , and individual showed significant 5-6 % decreases in total energy intake during diarrhea or fever . there were no changes with illness in the frequency of breast-feeding , total suckling time , or amount of breast-milk energy consumed . by contrast , energy intake from non-breast-milk sources decreased by 20-30 % during diarrhea and fever , and the small decrements in total energy consumption during illness were explained entirely by reduced consumption of non-breast-milk foods . 
catabolic effects of high-dose corticosteroids persist despite therapeutic benefit in rheumatoid arthritis . although corticosteroids ( cs ) cause nitrogen wasting in healthy humans , it is not known whether the salutary antiinflammatory and appetite-stimulating effects of cs in inflammatory diseases mitigate this effect . we measured nitrogen balance before , during , and after 3 d of high-dose methylprednisolone therapy in nine patients with flare-ups of rheumatoid arthritis . there was evidence of preexisting somatic protein and fat depletion in seven of nine subjects . patients were allowed to eat freely on a metabolic ward . nitrogen balances were -0.89 + / - 1.38 g/d ( means + / - sem ) before cs therapy , -5.77 + / - 1.30 g/d during therapy ( p less than 0.001 ) , and -3.54 + / - 1.38 g/d after therapy ( p less than 0.01 ) despite increased energy and nitrogen intake and clinical resolution of inflammation during and after the pulse therapy . we conclude that patients with rheumatoid arthritis are often cachectic and high-dose cs cause nitrogen wasting in these patients despite an antiinflammatory and appetite-stimulatory benefit . 
aggressive oral refeeding in hospitalized patients . malnutrition is an important clinical condition leading to increased morbidity and mortality . this report describes an aggressive oral refeeding program of high-caloric foods , which was instituted in severely anorectic patients because of their refusal to eat meals or supplements . after ascertaining a patient 's favorite sweet , hospital personnel and family collaborated in providing the food . frequently , sweets were the patient 's only intake for weeks . we saw a gradual return of appetite , inclusion of other foods in the diet , and overall clinical improvement in comorbid conditions . these cases suggest that aggressive oral refeeding with high-caloric foods is an underutilized therapy for multiply impaired elderly patients . 
follicular neoplasms of the thyroid in men older than 50 years of age . a dna flow cytometric study the clinical behavior of follicular neoplasms of the thyroid in elderly men can be difficult to predict on histologic grounds alone . to assess the usefulness of dna flow cytometry in predicting the metastatic potential of these tumors , the authors studied 44 primary and metastatic follicular neoplasms of the thyroid by dna flow cytometry of paraffin-embedded tissue . the neoplasms were obtained from 44 men ranging in age from 50 to 79 years ( mean , 60 ) . there were 29 follicular adenomas , 11 primary follicular carcinomas ( neoplasms with capsular and/or vascular invasion ) , and 4 metastatic follicular carcinomas . follow-up information was available on 40 of the 44 patients . the mean follow-up was 114 months . twenty-five of the 29 follicular adenomas had a diploid dna content , 2 ( 7 % ) were tetraploid , and the dna histograms on 2 were not interpretable . all patients with follicular adenomas had no evidence of disease ( ned ) at last follow-up . eight of the 11 primary follicular carcinomas were diploid . six of these patients had ned , one died with carcinoma at 82 months , and no follow-up was available on one . three ( 27 % ) of the primary follicular carcinomas were aneuploid or tetraploid . two of these patients had ned , and the third died with carcinoma 84 months after diagnosis . two of the four metastatic follicular carcinomas were diploid and two ( 50 % ) were aneuploid or tetraploid . one of the two patients with diploid metastatic follicular carcinomas died with carcinoma , as did one of the two patients with aneuploid metastatic follicular carcinomas . these results suggest the following : ( 1 ) follicular carcinomas are more likely to be aneuploid or tetraploid than are follicular adenomas ; ( 2 ) follicular neoplasms without capsular or vascular invasion may include a small number of aneuploid or tetraploid tumors ; and ( 3 ) dna ploidy does not add to the prognostic value of histologic studies alone . 
potential value of hormone receptor assay in carcinoma in situ of breast . the estrogen receptor ( er ) expression of invasive breast cancer has been extensively studied both biochemically and with specific monoclonal antibodies against er . relatively few studies have attempted to characterize er pattern in breast carcinoma in situ ( cis ) and in other premalignant lesions . in the current study , the authors investigated the pattern of er expression in 62 cases of breast cis , 30 of which had a component of invasive cancer , and 36 cases of atypical hyperplasia . paraffin sections of formalin-fixed breast tissue underwent enzyme pretreatment to expose nuclear antigenic sites as previously described . breast tissues then underwent estrogen immunocytochemical assay using specific monoclonal antibodies ( abbott laboratory , chicago , il ) . the cases were evaluated for heterogeneity , intensity of staining , and percentage of er-positive cells . an attempt was made to study the relation between the pattern of er expression , nuclear pleomorphism , and type of cis . the results of er immunocytochemical assay showed positive nuclear staining for er in 75 % of the cis , 73 % of cis with invasive cancer , and 100 % of atypical hyperplasias . er expression in cis agreed with that in the invasive carcinoma in 29 of 30 cases . this study also suggests that comedocarcinoma has a higher incidence of negative er expression than the other types of cis , particularly when it is associated with significant nuclear pleomorphism . there was no significant difference in er tumor heterogeneity between premalignant and malignant lesions . 
inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor ( plasma cell granuloma ) . clinicopathologic study of 20 cases with immunohistochemical and ultrastructural observations . twenty cases of inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor ( imt ) were studied ; 19 involved the lung and 1 the esophagus only . the patients ' ages ranged from 3 to 72 years . there were 9 males and 11 females . involvement of a bronchus was seen in one case and of mediastinal structures in four . chest pain and dyspnea were common symptoms ; eight patients were asymptomatic . seven patients underwent lobectomy , 12 local excision , and 1 biopsy alone . the lesions were nonencapsulated and ranged from 1.2 to 15 cm . various proportions of plasma cells , histiocytes , and spindle cells were observed ; the latter corresponded ultrastructurally to fibroblasts and myofibroblasts , were immunoreactive for vimentin and actin and focally for desmin , and were negative for epithelial markers . plasma cells were polyclonal for light chains . one patient had two recurrences , and in one case a large pleural imt was found eight years after the excision of a similar lesion in the lung . all patients with follow-up ( ten ) were well as long as ten years after the diagnosis ( average , 3.7 years ) . 
improved flow cytometric determination of proliferative activity ( s-phase fraction ) from paraffin-embedded tissue . recent studies suggest that proliferative activity ( s-phase fraction [ spf ] ) may have greater prognostic significance than total nuclear dna content ; however , relatively few studies have examined spf from paraffin-embedded tissue because of significant contamination of histograms with debris . in this study , cell cycle analysis was performed on 124 matched tissue specimens . fresh tissue was divided into two equal portions ; one portion was frozen , whereas the other portion was processed and embedded in paraffin . s-phase could be determined for both frozen and paraffin-embedded tissue in 81 cases . correlation between spf from frozen and paraffin-embedded tissue was demonstrated ( r = 0.80 ) when debris was subtracted from histograms with the use of two new subtraction algorithms referred to as multicut and singlecut . unlike other debris-subtraction algorithms , the quantity and distribution of debris calculated by these algorithms are dependent on the magnitude and position of histogram peaks . a lesser degree of correlation was demonstrated with the use of a standard exponential debris subtraction algorithm ( r = 0.67 ) . correlation of spf for aneuploid cases was greater when spf was calculated as a percentage of the aneuploid cell population rather than as a percentage of the entire cell population . this was attributed to the observation that the proportion of aneuploid cells from paraffin-embedded tissue was less than that from frozen tissue . the results of this study indicate that spf can be calculated from paraffin-embedded tissue with values comparable to those obtained from frozen tissue . the ability to calculate spf reliably from paraffin-embedded tissue should allow additional evaluation of this parameter as a prognostic indicator . 
comparison of dna and karyotype aneuploidy in malignant lymphomas . tumors from 48 patients with non-hodgkin 's lymphoma were examined for flow cytometric dna ploidy and chromosome constitution to determine the degree of concordance of these two methods . histologically , there were 24 low-grade , 19 intermediate , and 5 high-grade lymphomas . flow cytometry revealed an aneuploid cell population in 19 % of the cases . the mean dna index of the aneuploid tumors was 1.58 + / - 0.71 . the frequency of dna aneuploidy was only slightly higher ( 23 % ) in intermediate than in low-grade lymphomas ( 17 % ) . none of the five high-grade lymphomas showed dna aneuploidy . the chromosome study was successful in 81 % of cases ( 39 of 48 ) , and clonal chromosome abnormalities were observed in 92 % of these ( 36 of 39 ) . in most of the chromosomally abnormal clones the chromosome number was in the diploid range . most tumors with pseudodiploid ( 46 chromosomes ) , hypodiploid ( 45-44 chromosomes ) , or hyperdiploid ( 47-49 chromosomes ) clones were dna diploid by flow cytometry . on the other hand , all specimens with a chromosome number exceeding 50 were dna aneuploid by flow cytometry . therefore , flow cytometric dna analysis appears to be a rather coarse method that will detect aneuploidy only when there is a major increase in chromosome material . 
microstaging of squamous cell carcinomas . the clinical classification of squamous cell carcinoma , which was established primarily by the international union against cancer ( uicc ) , does not permit optimal estimation of expected metastasis . the authors ' results indicate that metastasis can be more accurately estimated on the basis of invasion depth , histopathologic grading , and especially tumor thickness . one essential advantage of these criteria is that they can be established by a histopathologist . it is interesting to note that in the authors ' collective no carcinoma less than 2 mm thick metastasized , that is , a relatively high percentage of carcinomas ( 48 % ) can be graded as no-risk carcinomas . the risk of metastasis for undifferentiated carcinomas greater than 6 mm thick that have infiltrated the musculature , the perichondrium , or the periosteum , however , is quite high . tumors between 2 and 6 mm thick with moderate differentiation and a depth of invasion that does not extend beyond the subcutis can be classified as low-risk carcinomas . 
childhood deaths from toy balloons . we describe four children who died of suffocation by rubber balloons in canada between 1983 and 1988 . in the united states , at least 121 children have died in a similar manner in the 15 years between 1973 and 1988 according to a report by the us consumer product safety commission . although the highest mortality occurred among infants , 30 ( 25 % ) of the 121 deaths occurred in children 6 years of age or older . balloons account for 43 % of the approximately 15 childhood deaths related to children 's products that are documented each year by the consumer product safety commission . toy rubber balloons are thus the leading cause of pediatric choking deaths from children 's products . preventive efforts should be directed toward a ban on this type of balloon and the development of safer alternatives . meanwhile , public information campaigns should alert parents , physicians , and policymakers to the dangers of toy rubber balloons . 
neurodevelopmental performance of very-low-birth-weight infants with mild periventricular , intraventricular hemorrhage . outcome at 5 to 6 years of age . the neurodevelopmental outcome of 38 very-low-birth-weight neonates ( birth weight , less than 1501 g ) was followed up prospectively from birth to 5 to 6 years of age to assess the neurodevelopmental sequelae of mild periventricular , intraventricular hemorrhage ( grades i and ii ) . all neonates were screened for periventricular , intraventricular hemorrhage at 5 to 10 days of age . eleven incurred a mild periventricular , intraventricular hemorrhage ( group 1 ) and 27 had no periventricular , intraventricular hemorrhage ( group 2 ) . each of the infants was neurodevelopmentally normal at 1 to 2 years of age . the 38 children were matched by race , age , sex , and socioeconomic status with control children ( group 3 ) who had been born at term . on outcome measurements at 5 to 6 years of age , groups 1 and 2 scored significantly lower than group 3 on the combined test measurements and on three of the four individual measurements . group 1 scored significantly lower than group 2 on the combined test measurements only . these data indicate that very-low-birth-weight infants are at risk for learning problems . although children with mild periventricular , intraventricular hemorrhage did not demonstrate a significant deficit on individual test scores , the significant difference on the combined battery suggests that mild periventricular , intraventricular hemorrhage has an adverse effect on global performance . 
computerized tomography in acute gastrointestinal disorders . in recent years , computerized tomography ( ct ) has become one of the most important imaging modalities in evaluation of patients with acute gastrointestinal disorders . its role , diagnostic accuracy , indications , and limitations in some of the most commonly encountered acute abdominal conditions are succinctly presented and reviewed . ct should not be used indiscriminantly , but is best considered a valuable primary or complimentary diagnostic tool in critically ill patients . its selective use in a variety of emergency abdominal diseases will significantly improve accuracy of clinical diagnoses , leading to a prompt and adequate medical or surgical management . 
dysphagia following fundoplication : " slipped " fundoplication versus achalasia complicated by fundoplication . failure to obtain preoperative esophageal manometry in patients being considered for antireflux surgery can result in immediate persistent postoperative dysphagia due to a missed diagnosis of achalasia . we describe the clinical assessment and management of a case of delayed postoperative dysphagia due to a " slipped " fundoplication , which is contrasted with three patients with immediate postoperative dysphagia due to a missed diagnosis of achalasia . surgical revision was required to correct the " slipped " fundoplication , and pneumatic dilatation was successfully used in two of three cases of achalasia complicated by fundoplication . careful preoperative esophageal evaluation with manometry is essential to rule out the presence of a primary esophageal motor disorder . 
clinicopathologic features and long-term results of alpha-fetoprotein-producing gastric cancer . during a 10-yr-period , 24 cases of alpha-fetoprotein-producing gastric cancer were experienced in our department . the mean age was 62.5 yr , and the sex ratio of males to females was 3:1 . borrmann ii and iii types of gastric cancer were predominant ( 83.3 % ) . the prognosis was dismal . most of the patients , including three radically operated cases of early gastric cancer , died from liver metastasis within 2 yr . the 1 - , 3 - , and 6-yr survival rates were 37.5 % , 8.3 % , and 8.3 % , respectively , for all cases and 75.0 % , 25.0 % , and 25.0 % for radically operated cases . the incidences of synchronous and metachronous liver metastasis were 31.8 % and 40.9 % , significantly higher than the incidences of afp-negative gastric cancer ( p less than 0.91 ) . despite radical gastrectomy , metachronous liver metastasis occurred in 75.0 % of the cases . two radical hepatic resections , including extended right lobectomy , were performed in one patient with early gastric cancer who had repeated metachronous liver metastasis . however , the tumor recurred immediately . apparently , radical gastrectomy or hepatic resection alone may not suffice for this particular type of cancer . the methods of treatment and follow-up considered should be different from that for other types of gastric cancer . 
endoscopic management of chronic organoaxial volvulus of the stomach . endoscopic correction of the chronic organoaxial volvulus of the stomach was attempted in seven cases of primary and three cases of secondary volvulus . endoscopic correction was successful in six cases of primary volvulus and one case of volvulus secondary to duodenal carcinoma . this paper describes the details of the technique of endoscopic correction of gastric volvulus , and documentation of correction of the volvulus by barium meal study with a follow-up of 5-26 months . 
recurrence of duodenal ulcer and elevated serum pepsinogen i levels in smokers and nonsmokers . we determined serum pepsinogen i ( pg i ) levels by radioimmunoassay in 472 patients with duodenal ulcer and 141 normal subjects to investigate whether serum pg i levels were related to cigarette smoking , and in 225 patients to determine whether the recurrence of duodenal ulcer was related to serum pg i levels or cigarette smoking . serum pg i levels were not influenced by cigarette smoking in either patients with duodenal ulcer or normal subjects . the recurrence rate of duodenal ulcer not under maintenance therapy was significantly higher in hyperpg i patients than in normopg i patients , regardless of their smoking habits . only in hyperpg i patients was the recurrence rate in smokers higher than in nonsmokers . patients under maintenance therapy showed similar results . multilogistic regression indicated that hyperpg i had a greater effect than cigarette smoking on ulcer recurrence . these findings indicate that serum pg i levels are not influenced by smoking , and the important characteristic in patients with recurrent duodenal ulcers is the increased serum pg i levels . 
extramedullary hematopoiesis involving the esophagus in myelofibrosis . in this report , we describe a case of myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia ; a 53-yr-old man was splenectomized for a massively enlarged spleen in which multiple foci of myeloid metaplasia were histologically demonstrated . the patient was referred to us for endoscopic examination , following the repeated occurrence of melena . upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed two active ulcerative lesions in the bulb , and only a moderate erythema in the lower third of the esophagus , which showed no varices . there was no endoscopic evidence of active or recent bleeding . subsequent histologic examination of biopsies taken from the esophageal lesion surprisingly revealed the presence of hematopoietic tissue . 
diffuse hemangiomatosis of the spleen : splenic hemangiomatosis presenting with giant splenomegaly , anemia , and thrombocytopenia . in an elderly patient with oligosymptomatic giant splenomegaly , clinical and laboratory data were nondiagnostic , while nonhomogeneous splenic enlargement was the only finding detected by imaging procedures . splenectomy was performed and diffuse hemangiomatosis of predominantly capillary-type found . the failure of imaging techniques to even hint at the nature of the underlying disorder is comprehensible in view of the organ being essentially replaced in toto by the abnormal vascular channels . diffuse splenic hemangiomatosis , a rare condition , may cause hypersplenism , and its diagnosis may be elusive because of misleading patterns on imaging . 
" spontaneous sump syndrome " : successful treatment by duodenoscopic sphincterotomy . " sump syndrome " is a rare complication of side-to-side choledochoenterostomy operations which develops in the distal , nonfunctioning limb of the common bile duct where lithogenic bile , gastrointestinal contents , and debris accumulate . we report here a patient who developed spontaneous sump syndrome as a result of the formation of choledochoduodenal fistula , and who presented with multiple pyogenic liver abscesses . the patient 's symptoms and liver abscesses resolved completely after treatment by endoscopic sphincterotomy and antibiotics . this case demonstrates that sump syndrome may occur spontaneously , that it can be a cause for pyogenic liver abscess formation , and that it may be treated effectively by endoscopic sphincterotomy . 
primary abscess of the omentum . a 65-yr-old man presented with upper abdominal pain and fever due to a primary abscess of the omentum . the finding of microscopic-size foreign particles within the abscess raised the possibility of antecedent clinically silent perforation of the bowel or appendix . surgical resection and antibiotic therapy were curative . 
" cloggology " revisited : endoscopic or surgical decompression of malignant biliary obstruction . in this study , 50 consecutive patients over age 60 with obstructive jaundice secondary to malignant stricture of the distal common bile duct were identified by endoscopic cholangiography . the patients were then randomized to palliative therapy with either endoscopic endoprosthesis or bypass surgery . prospective indices of survival time , complication rates , hospitalization requirements , and quality of life were followed . all 25 patients randomized to endoprosthesis were treated by this procedure , whereas only 19 of 25 patients randomized to bypass surgery underwent operative biliary-digestive anastomosis . no difference in the above indices were found between the two groups . the authors concluded that palliation of obstructive jaundice due to a malignant bile duct stricture with endoscopically placed biliary stent is as effective as operative bypass . 
brachial-jugular polytetrafluoroethylene fistulas for hemodialysis . a retrospective analysis was made of 16 patients who had received a brachial-jugular polytetrafluoroethylene ( ptfe ) graft for hemodialysis . in four patients , the procedure was used to treat malfunctioning brachio-axillary fistulas due to long venous stenosis in the axillary vein . in 12 other patients , the operation was chosen in cases of exhaustion of the veins in the upper extremity because of previous multiple failed fistulas . two patients died with a functioning fistula 7 and 10 months after placement of the graft of causes unrelated to the vascular access . the other 14 patients retained functioning fistulas between 8 and 26 months after construction of the shunt . three patients needed graft thrombectomy to treat occlusive episodes . no venous stenosis was found in a postoperative fistulography made in those patients . one patient needed substitution of a graft segment due to stenosis of the prosthesis crossing over the clavicle . we believe that the brachial-jugular graft is a procedure that can be considered as vascular access for hemodialysis in cases where the use of veins in the upper extremity and the axilla is not possible . 
ultrasonography in the differentiation of complicated and uncomplicated acute pyelonephritis . differentiation of uncomplicated pyelonephritis versus complicated pyelonephritis has always been problematic . no clear physical signs or symptoms are diagnostic . to study differences between the two , we retrospectively reviewed charts of patients admitted to charity hospital , new orleans , with febrile urinary tract infections . criteria for inclusion were pyuria , positive urinary culture , and signs or symptoms of pyelonephritis . all patients underwent renal ultrasonography ( us ) before other diagnostic tests . us identified a potential emergency ( hydronephrosis or abscess ) in 11 of 98 patients ( 11.2 % ) . the only significant contributing factor was the presence of diabetes mellitus , which was present in five of 11 emergent conditions and eight of 73 of the remainder ( p = 0.003 ) . us is inexpensive , easily obtainable in the emergency room , and sensitive enough to screen patients with pyelonephritis for complications . however , we believe it is mandatory in diabetics , because of the high incidence of abnormalities in this population . 
recombination between two 14-bp homologous sequences as the mechanism for gene deletion in factor ix seattle 1 . factor ixseattle 1 is a 10-kb intragenic deletion identified in a family that has hemophilia b. by sequencing across the site of the deletion , we discovered at the deletion junction a 13-bp sequence ( 5 ' . . . tagaa-gttcactt . . . 3 ' ) that was homologous to two 14-bp sequences 10 kb apart in introns d and f of the normal factor ix gene . the presence of these homologous sequences in two different regions of the normal gene allows us to propose that genetic recombination has occurred between the sequences , resulting in the gene deletion . the precise recombination site was able to be localized to one of 5 bp ( 5 ' . . . agttc . . . 3 ' ) in the middle of the homologous sequences . the exact length of the deletion is 10,000 bp . 
nucleus-driven multiple large-scale deletions of the human mitochondrial genome : a new autosomal dominant disease . we studied several affected and one nonaffected individuals belonging to three unrelated pedigrees . the pathological trait was an autosomal dominant mitochondrial myopathy due to large-scale multiple deletions of the mitochondrial genome . clinically , symptomatic patients had progressive external ophthalmoplegia , muscle weakness and wasting , sensorineural hypoacusia , and , in some cases , vestibular areflexia and tremor . the muscle biopsies of all patients examined showed ragged-red fibers , neurogenic changes , and a partially decreased histochemical reaction to cytochrome c oxidase . multiple mtdna heteroplasmy was detected in the patients by both southern blot analysis and pcr amplification , whereas the unaffected individual had the normal homoplasmic hybridization pattern . these findings confirm and add further details to the existence of a new human disease -- defined clinically as a mitochondrial myopathy , genetically as a mendelian autosomal dominant trait , and molecularly by the accumulation of multiple , large-scale deletions of the mitochondrial genome -- that is due to impaired nuclear control during mtdna replication . 
analysis of dna polymorphisms suggests that most de novo dup ( 21q ) chromosomes in patients with down syndrome are isochromosomes and not translocations . down syndrome is rarely due to a de novo duplication of chromosome 21 [ dup ( 21q ) ] . to investigate the origin of the dup ( 21q ) and the nature of this chromosome , we used dna polymorphisms in 10 families with down syndrome due to de novo dup ( 21q ) . the origin of the extra chromosome 21q was maternal in six cases and paternal in four cases . furthermore , the majority ( eight of 10 ) of dup ( 21q ) chromosomes were isochromosomes i ( 21q ) ( four were paternal in origin , and four were maternal in origin ) ; however , in two of 10 families the dup ( 21q ) chromosome appeared to be the result of a robertsonian translocation t ( 21q ; 21q ) ( maternal in origin in both cases ) . 
localization of the human angiogenin gene to chromosome band 14q11 , proximal to the t cell receptor alpha/delta locus . the gene encoding angiogenin , a potent inducer of blood vessel formation , has been localized within the human genome . it is present as a single copy per haploid genome and is located on chromosome 14 , on the basis of discordancy analysis of human-rodent hybrid cell lines . this localization was refined to 14q11 by in situ hybridization of an angiogenin probe to metaphase chromosomes prepared from both normal human lymphocytes and rpmi 8402 cells . the results from the rpmi 8402 cells also establish that the angiogenin gene resides proximal to a translocation breakpoint within the t cell receptor alpha/delta locus and therefore upstream from that locus . an avaii rflp , present at a frequency of 29 % in an unselected collection of human placental dnas , was identified in the coding region of the gene and results from a single silent transversion . 
a bleeding risk index for estimating the probability of major bleeding in hospitalized patients starting anticoagulant therapy . purpose : to construct and test prospectively a bleeding risk index for estimating the probability of major bleeding in hospitalized patients starting long-term anticoagulant therapy . patients and methods : in an inception cohort of 617 patients starting long-term anticoagulant therapy in one hospital , data were gathered retrospectively and bleeding was classified using reliable explicit criteria . we constructed a bleeding risk index by identifying and weighting independent predictors of major bleeding using a multivariate proportional-hazards model . the bleeding risk index was tested in 394 other patients prospectively identified in a second hospital . the index was compared to physicians ' predictions . results : major bleeding developed before discharge in 61 of all 1,011 patients ( 6 % ) . the bleeding risk index included four independent risk factors for major in-hospital bleeding : the number of specific comorbid conditions ; heparin use in patients aged 60 years or older ; maximal prothrombin or partial thromboplastin time 2.0 or more times control ; liver dysfunction worsening during therapy . in the testing group , the index predicted major bleeding , which occurred in 3 % of 235 low-risk patients , 16 % of 96 middle-risk patients , and 19 % of 63 high-risk patients ( p less than 0.001 ) . the bleeding risk index performed as well as physicians ' predictions , and integration of the bleeding risk index with physicians ' predictions led to a classification system that was more sensitive ( p = 0.03 ) than physicians ' predictions alone . in 86 % of patients with a high risk of major bleeding , we identified specific ways of improving therapy , e.g. , avoiding overanticoagulation and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents . conclusion : the bleeding risk index provides valid estimates of the probability of major bleeding in hospitalized patients starting long-term anticoagulant therapy and complements physicians ' predictions . the possibility that bleeding can be prevented in high-risk patients warrants prospective evaluation . 
the importance of cytogenetic studies in adult acute lymphocytic leukemia . purpose : the prognostic importance of pretreatment bone marrow cytogenetic studies in adults with acute lymphocytic leukemia treated at a single institution , with an identical treatment program , is described . patients and methods : a total of 105 patients with a documented morphologic diagnosis of acute lymphocytic leukemia were reviewed for the purpose of this analysis . all patients had an extensive workup at presentation , and cytogenetic analysis was performed in 103 patients , using the giemsa banding technique with trypsin pretreatment on 24-hour cultured cells . results : the specific cytogenetic classification in the 103 patients who had the karyotypic analysis was as follows : diploid 27 % ; philadelphia chromosome-positive 13 % ; hyperdiploid 12 % ; b-cell karyotype 6 % ; 6q - and 14q + abnormalities 4 % ; pseudodiploid 8 % ; hypodiploid 2 % ; and insufficient metaphases 28 % . b-cell , 6q - or 14q + , and philadelphia chromosome-positive karyotypes tended to correlate with other known negative prognostic factors . patients with diploid , hyperdiploid , pseudodiploid , and hypodiploid karyotypes or with insufficient metaphases could be combined into one group with a favorable prognosis . in this group , the remission rate with induction chemotherapy was 89 % , the median complete remission duration was 26 months , and the median survival was 25 months , with a 3-year survival rate of 45 % . patients with philadelphia chromosome-positive , b-cell , and 6q - or 14q + abnormalities collectively had an unfavorable prognosis . their response rate to induction chemotherapy was 65 % , the median response duration was 7 months , and the median survival was 8 months , with a 3-year survival rate of less than 10 % . conclusion : we conclude that the pretreatment bone marrow karyotype is an important part of the evaluation of adults with acute lymphocytic leukemia and provides significant prognostic information . 
sudden death in young competitive athletes : clinicopathologic correlations in 22 cases . purpose : to investigate the pathologic substrates of sudden death in young competitive athletes . patients and methods : twenty-two cases of sudden death in young competitive athletes occurring in the veneto region ( northern italy ) in the period january 1979 to december 1989 were studied by postmortem examination . the athletes included 19 males and three females , ranging in age from 11 to 35 years ( mean , 23 years ) . results : in 18 cases , sudden death occurred during ( 16 cases ) or immediately after ( two cases ) a competitive sport activity . in 10 subjects , sudden death was apparently the first sign of disease . postmortem examination disclosed that this fatality was due to arrhythmic cardiac arrest in 17 cases ; among these , right ventricular cardiomyopathy , also known as " right ventricular dysplasia , " was the most frequently encountered cardiovascular disease ( six cases ) , followed by atherosclerotic coronary artery disease ( four cases ) , conduction system pathology ( three cases ) , anomalous origin of right coronary artery from the wrong aortic sinus ( two cases ) , and mitral valve prolapse ( two cases ) . in two athletes , the abrupt lethal complication was " mechanical " and consisted of pulmonary embolism and rupture of the aorta ; in three athletes , death was due to a cerebral cause . all athletes with right ventricular cardiomyopathy died during effort , and most had a history of palpitations and/or syncope . whenever available , electrocardiographic ( ecg ) tracings showed inverted t waves in precordial leads and/or left bundle branch block ventricular arrhythmias . conclusions : clinicopathologic correlations indicate that in the veneto region of italy , right ventricular cardiomyopathy is not so rare among the cardiovascular diseases associated with the risk of arrhythmic cardiac arrest , and seems to account for the majority of cases of sudden death in young athletes ; this disorder can be suspected during life on the basis of prodromal symptoms and ecg signs . 
clinical and manometric aspects of diffuse esophageal spasm in a cohort of subjects evaluated for dysphagia and/or chest pain . manometric criteria for diffuse esophageal spasm have recently been restated . in this study , a cohort of 358 subjects was evaluated in a gastrointestinal motility laboratory for dysphagia and/or chest pain . applying the recently proposed criteria of richter and castell , 18 subjects ( 5 % ) were diagnosed as having des . dysphagia was the major complaint ( 89 % ) , while 44 % of patients complained of chest pain and 33 % of both symptoms . all patients shared more than 30 % simultaneous contractions after wet swallows interspersed with normal peristaltic sequences . associated manometric findings were repetitive ( greater than 3 peaks ) contractions ( 67 % ) , high-amplitude contractions ( 33 % ) , spontaneous activity ( 22 % ) , prolonged duration ( 11 % ) , and lower esophageal sphincter abnormalities ( 5 % ) . radiology disclosed significant abnormalities in only 27 % of des patients . 
serum aldolase isozyme levels in patients with cerebrovascular diseases . a subunit specific radioimmunoassay was developed for the quantification of human aldolase a , b , and c. the method used was a double antibody radioimmunoassay using radioiodinated purified aldolase a , b , or c subunits as the ligand , specific chicken antibodies to aldolase isozymes and rabbit antibodies to chicken igg . the iodogen method was used for iodination of the purified isozyme subunits in this study . human brain tissue contained similar concentrations of aldolase a and aldolase c , and a smaller amount of aldolase b , which was the main isozyme of liver tissue . levels of serum aldolase a were greater than 203 ng/ml , the upper limit of normal , in six of 24 patients with cerebral infarction and in 11 of 31 patients with cerebral hemorrhage . nine of 24 patients with cerebral infarction and 16 of 31 patients with cerebral hemorrhage had serum aldolase c levels greater than 4.1 ng/ml , the upper limit in normal sera . these data suggest that serum aldolase c may be a more specific and sensitive marker of cerebrovascular diseases than aldolase a. we also demonstrated that serial measurement of serum aldolase c in patients with cerebrovascular diseases might be useful in estimating prognosis , since serially increasing serum aldolase c levels during the course of these diseases were correlated with a high mortality rate . 
antinuclear antibodies in sera of patients with recurrent pregnancy wastage . four groups of women were studied to determine whether low-level antinuclear antibody titers are associated with a higher risk for pregnancy loss . group a consisted of 30 patients with a history of unexplained fetal losses . group b consisted of 30 women with " explained " fetal losses ( e.g. , uterine septum or luteal phase defect ) . ages and number of losses were comparable between the women in groups a and b. group c consisted of 61 healthy pregnant women . group d involved 61 healthy nonpregnant women of reproductive age . in groups a and b , 40 % and 53.3 % of the respective patients had antinuclear antibody titers greater than or equal to 1:40 . in groups c and d the frequencies of positive antinuclear antibody titers were 8.2 % and 5.6 % , respectively . this study demonstrates a high prevalence of low-titer antinuclear antibody-positive serum in patients with explained and unexplained pregnancy losses . 
postmortem chorionic villus sampling is a better method for cytogenetic evaluation of early fetal loss than culture of abortus material . in utero chorionic villus sampling at the time of diagnosis of intrauterine fetal death is compared with more traditional use of cultured fetal skin , products of conception , or amniocentesis . a total of 102 specimens from early fetal losses were evaluated for success in karyotyping and chromosomal results . we found postmortem chorionic villus sampling is technically possible , offers the highest likelihood of getting a cytogenetic result , and is a rapid , reliable , and safe technique . the extraembryonic component of intrauterine fetal deaths appears to remain viable and continues to grow long after the embryo has died . samples obtained at the time of diagnosis of fetal death offer the greatest changes of successfully obtaining a karyotype . the incidence of chromosome abnormalities associated with fetal loss , particularly trisomies , is higher than previous data suggested . 
the " stuck twin " phenomenon : ultrasonographic findings , pregnancy outcome , and management with serial amniocenteses . thirteen consecutive twin pregnancies affected by the " stuck twin " phenomenon were reviewed to determine the potential benefit of serial amniocenteses . the fetal survival rate for the eight pregnancies that underwent serial amniocenteses was 69 % ( 11 of 16 fetuses ) . this is significantly improved compared with a fetal survival rate of 20 % among the five preceding pregnancies managed without serial amniocenteses at the same institution ( p = 0.01 ) . it is also markedly improved compared with a combined fetal survival rate of 16 % among 48 previously reported pregnancies with the stuck twin phenomenon managed without serial amniocenteses ( p less than 0.0001 ) . survival correlated with the absence of concomitant pregnancy complications ( i.e. , maternal hypertension or intractable labor ) and with the absence of severe fetal structural abnormalities . procedural complications occurred in three of eight pregnancies ( 37.5 % ) managed with serial amniocenteses and was attributed as a cause of fetal death in one case . two of 11 survivors ( 18 % ) had complications after serial amniocenteses including brain infarction and renal tubular necrosis . serial amniocenteses may significantly improve the survival rate of twin gestations affected by the stuck twin phenomenon but may be associated with complications among survivors . 
the maylard incision in gynecologic surgery the transverse muscle-splitting maylard incision was used in 175 gynecologic patients who required pelvic-abdominal surgery . one hundred fifty-three patients ( 87 % ) had pelvic malignancy ; other indications for operation included uterine myomas , endometriosis , tuboovarian abscess , and benign ovarian cysts . exposure was excellent : 54 % of patients underwent pelvic lymphadenectomy and 17 % underwent paraaortic lymphadenectomy . twelve patients ( 6.9 % ) had wound complications , but there was neither long-term morbidity nor mortality associated with the incision . fifty-six patients ( 32 % ) received preoperative or postoperative pelvic radiation therapy with no detrimental effect on wound healing . the maylard incision is cosmetic , strong , easily learned , and has an acceptable complication rate . unless a vertical incision is indicated , the maylard technique is preferred when optimal exposure and accessibility to the pelvis are required . 
hyperadrenergic orthostatic intolerance as a result of postpartum blood loss . this article describes a young women in whom orthostatic intolerance developed as a result of protracted postpartum vaginal bleeding . the cardiovascular abnormalities were unresponsive to usual treatment measures , and she required combination therapy directed at increasing plasma volume and decreasing sympathetic nervous system activity . after resolution of her symptoms , the patient required no long-term therapy . chronic blood loss has not been reported as a cause of this syndrome . 
perinatal mortality in victoria , australia : role of group b streptococcus . group b beta-hemolytic streptococcus is the most common infective cause of neonatal morbidity and mortality . it is therefore surprising that no agreement exists for an approach to its prevention . there is also increasing evidence that occult infection may play an etiologic role in premature rupture of the membranes and preterm labor . in this report we review the role of group b beta-hemolytic streptococcal sepsis as a cause of perinatal wastage in the state of victoria , australia during the period 1982 to 1987 . group b beta-hemolytic streptococcus accounted for 1.7 % of overall perinatal deaths , and for 30.3 % ( 77 of 254 ) perinatal deaths directly attributable to infection . by comparison , over the same 6-year period , erythroblastosis accounted for 0.5 % of perinatal wastage and there were only two deaths as a result of congenital syphilis . the true incidence of lethal group b beta-hemolytic streptococcal infection is probably greater because of the absence of histologic and bacteriologic studies in many perinatal deaths . we believe that intrapartum chemoprophylaxis with penicillin of all group b beta-hemolytic streptococcus-positive carrier mothers would significantly reduce neonatal morbidity and mortality from this cause . 
extensive vulvar and vaginal varicella necessitating abdominal delivery . maternal varicella occurs in fewer than five per 10,000 pregnancies in the united states . a case is reported in which markedly painful , extensive vulvar and vaginal ulcers prevented cervical examination , and cesarean section was performed with the patient under general anesthesia . 
surgical staples in cesarean section : a randomized controlled trial . this randomized controlled trial compares the use of the auto suture poly cs 57 disposable surgical stapler ( n = 98 ) with standard hysterectomy ( n = 102 ) in low transverse cesarean sections . subjective assessment of blood loss by the surgeon resulted in lower mean ( + / - sem ) total blood loss estimates in the stapled group ( 492 + / - 24 ml ) than in the nonstapled group ( 579 + / - 38 ml ) ( p = 0.05 ) . however , surgeon 's estimation of blood loss as a result of the hysterotomy and blood loss estimated by the hemoglobin deficit measured on the second postoperative day did not significantly differ between the two groups . the use of the stapling device tended to lengthen the total operating time , which averaged 42.5 minutes in the group with the staples and 39.2 minutes in the group with the standard hysterotomy ( p = 0.05 ) . the risk of febrile morbidity , the frequency of endometritis , and the length of hospitalization were similar in the two groups . our results do not support the routine use of the auto suture poly cs 57 disposable surgical stapler in low transverse cesarean sections . 
ultrasonographic assessment of placental abnormalities . current ultrasonographic techniques offer a novel approach for the identification of a wide variety of placental abnormalities usually described postnatally by the pathologist . placental vascular lesions , placental tumors , and abnormal placentation are potentially associated with perinatal complications and their diagnosis in utero may influence the pregnancy management . an ultrasonographic classification of placental lesions that is based on their location , size , echogenicity , and number is proposed . repeated ultrasonographic examination , together with biologic investigations , is important for the prenatal differential diagnosis of most these lesions and for full understanding of their pathophysiologic characteristics and significance . 
adhesion formation after ovarian wound repair in new zealand white rabbits : a comparison of ovarian microsurgical closure with ovarian nonclosure . thirty female new zealand white rabbits underwent standard laparotomy . each ovary was bivalved and hemostasis was achieved with bipolar electrocautery . one ovary was then randomized to the closure group , whereas the other ovary was placed in the nonclosure group . in the closure group , the ovarian capsule was closed with a continuous suture of 8-0 vicryl absorbable surgical suture material with microsurgical technique . in the nonclosure group , the ovaries were left open . three weeks later the animals were killed and the ovarian adhesions were graded with a standardized scale by an observer ( a. a. t. ) blinded to the closure status of the animals . five control animals underwent sham operations with minimal adhesion formation . statistical analysis of the study animals by the paired student t test showed a significantly higher adhesion score on the ovaries that were microsurgically closed compared with the ovaries not closed ( p = 0.02 ) . 
practical aspects of pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone administration . pulsatile administration of gonadotropin-releasing hormone represents a major advance in the treatment of anovulation in women who fail to ovulate with clomiphene citrate and is an alternative for many women who currently receive human menopausal gonadotropin . four issues must be addressed before administering pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone : ( 1 ) safety , ( 2 ) efficacy , ( 3 ) convenience , and ( 4 ) cost . each of these issues will be affected by the three major decisions a physician makes with gonadotropin-releasing hormone therapy : ( 1 ) patient selection , ( 2 ) route of administration , and ( 3 ) dose of gonadotropin-releasing hormone . the ideal candidate for gonadotropin-releasing hormone therapy is a patient with an absence of endogenous pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone , as seen in hypothalamic amenorrhea . although women with polycystic ovarian disease can be treated with pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone , a decreased ovulation rate should be expected . the route of administration , intravenous or subcutaneous , and the degree of monitoring can be tailored by the physician to fit each patient 's needs . pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone therapy is a safe , effective , convenient , and economical alternative to human menopausal gonadotropin for ovulation induction in women resistant to clomiphene . 
ocular pathologic features of arteriohepatic dysplasia ( alagille 's syndrome ) . arteriohepatic dysplasia ( alagille 's syndrome ) , an autosomal dominant condition involving jaundice caused by a developmental scarcity of intrahepatic bile ducts , has characteristic cardiovascular , skeletal , facial , and ocular features that distinguish it from extrahepatic biliary atresia and an array of other neonatal intrahepatic cholestatic disorders . two children who died of this syndrome had prominent schwalbe 's rings with attached iris strands characteristic of axenfeld 's syndrome . additional histologic findings of iris atrophy and stromal nodules , however , made the designation axenfeld-reiger 's syndrome more appropriate . pigmentary retinopathy , degeneration of bruch 's membrane , and prominent lipofuscin deposition in the ciliary muscle noted in one of the patients were not regarded as primary changes of alagille 's syndrome , but were believed to be secondary to acquired deficiency of the fat-soluble vitamins a and e. early recognition of the ocular changes in arteriohepatic dysplasia is helpful in establishing the proper diagnosis to avoid unnecessary abdominal surgery and institute vitamin therapy . 
neuroendocrine features of reactive bile ductules in cholestatic liver disease . various cholestatic liver diseases are accompanied by a striking increase in the number of bile ductules . this so-called ductular reaction is thought to arise both from ductular metaplasia of hepatocytes and from proliferation of pre-existing bile ductules . previous studies have shown that these reactive bile ductules differ from their normal counterpart in enzyme and immunohistochemical make-up . using monoclonal antibodies directed to neuroendocrine markers and immunohistochemistry , we found that reactive bile ductules in cholestatic liver disease display neuroendocrine features . in all cases of primary biliary cirrhosis ( pbc ) , primary sclerosing cholangitis ( psc ) , extrahepatic obstruction , and acute hepatitis a , reactive bile ductules expressed the neural cell adhesion molecule ( n-cam ) and reacted with monoclonal antibody a2b5 . both n-cam and the ganglioside , recognized by a2b5 , are restricted to neuroendocrine cells and tissues . in all but four of these cases , the same bile ductules expressed chromogranin-a , present in the matrix of neuroendocrine granules . furthermore , in three cases of longstanding cholestasis , scattered periportal hepatocytes expressed chromogranin-a but not n-cam . other neuroendocrine markers such as neuron-specific enolase , synaptophysin , or myelin-associated glycoprotein were lacking from both bile ductules and hepatocytes . the neuroendocrine phenotype of bile ductules and hepatocytes was confirmed on electronmicroscopy , demonstrating various numbers of dense-cored , neuroendocrine granules near the peripheral cell membrane in bile ductules as well as in cells intermediate between hepatocytes and bile ductular cells . in 10 cases of normal liver tissue without ductular reaction , bile ductules lacked neuroendocrine markers except in two cases in which very weak reactivity for chromogranin-a was observed . these findings illustrate the presence of a new , neuroendocrine cell type that emerges in the liver during cholestasis . elucidation of the significance of the neuroendocrine substance ( s ) produced in the dense cored granules of reactive bile ductules awaits their isolation and characterization . we can speculate that this molecule plays an autocrine or paracrine regulatory role in the process of ductular metaplasia of hepatocytes or growth of bile ductules . 
mechanisms of edema formation in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis . the contribution of inflammatory cells . most of the central nervous system ( cns ) endothelium regulates the passage of solutes and functions as a blood-brain barrier ( bbb ) . during experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis ( eae ) , an inflammatory demyelinating disease of the cns , loss of bbb function occurs . the authors have previously shown an increase in endothelial transcytotic activity associated with decreased mitochondrial content as evidence of bbb dysfunction in eae . these changes occurred in the capillary bed and correlated with cns edema and clinical signs . in the present report , a fixation procedure before infusion of the intravascular tracer horseradish peroxidase ( hrp ) in rats at the height of clinical eae has been used . in these animals , tracer leakage was only noted in inflamed venules with diameters of 12 to 19 mu . the authors detected several mechanisms of passive leakage : 1 ) increased junctional permeability ; 2 ) increased interendothelial space ; 3 ) leakage alongside migrating inflammatory cells . some small capillaries showed necrotic changes with minimal tracer leakage . this report demonstrates that bbb disruption also occurs via nonendocytic mechanisms that may be induced by inflammatory cells . 
vimentin is preferentially expressed in high-grade ductal and medullary , but not in lobular breast carcinomas . two hundred sixty-two invasive breast carcinomas dating from 1979 to 1984 were tested for vimentin and keratin on formaldehyde-fixed paraffin-embedded sections . none of 26 lobular carcinomas expressed vimentin . vimentin expression in 10 % or more of tumor cells was found in 78 % of medullary ( 14 of 18 ) , in 16 % of ductal not otherwise specified ( nos ) ( 35 of 214 ) , and in two of four mucinous carcinomas . a further seven tumors showed vimentin expression in less than 1 % to 10 % of the cells . vimentin was expressed in tumor cells of 30 % ( 28 of 93 ) of grade iii invasive ductal nos carcinomas versus 7 % ( 7 of 105 ) of grade ii and 0 % of grade i carcinomas ( 0 of 10 ) . vimentin was found to be preferentially expressed in tumors growing in broad , often anastomosing bands or sheets with extensive necrosis , scanty supportive stroma , high nuclear grade , and numerous mitoses . the authors conclude that vimentin is not detected in lobular carcinomas , but is preferentially expressed in medullary and in high-grade ductal nos breast carcinomas . 
pathogenesis of antigen-induced arthritis in mice deficient in neutrophil elastase and cathepsin g. the contribution of neutrophil-derived elastase and cathepsin g to joint pathology has been examined in immune arthritis in the mouse . neutrophils from beige mice are genetically deficient in lysosomal elastase and cathepsin g , but have normal levels of the acid hydrolases , beta-glucuronidase , and n-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase . the development of antigen-induced arthritis in normal mice has been compared with that in beige mice . the pattern of synovitis ( both leukocyte accumulation and plasma leakage ) were indistinguishable in normal and beige mice . cartilage proteoglycan depletion was quantified by measuring the decrease in safranin o staining intensity , and this , too , was unaltered in mice lacking elastase and cathepsin g. these results suggest that neutrophil elastase and cathepsin g do not contribute to these aspects of joint pathology in antigen-induced arthritis in the mouse . 
metaplastic change in mesenchymal stem cells induced by activated ras oncogene . 3t3 t murine mesenchymal stem cells have the potential to differentiate into a variety of different cell types even though they show a predilection to undergo adipocyte differentiation in vitro . the possibility that the activated c-ha-ras ( ejras ) oncogene might influence the pathway of differentiation of these stem cells is investigated in the current study . activated ras oncogene was transfected and stably expressed in 3t3 t cells ; assays then were performed to determine its effect on differentiation . the results show that all ejras-transfected cell lines lose their ability to differentiate to adipocytes and instead differentiate into cells that express many characteristics of macrophages . such cells contain numerous cytoplasmic granules , extensive nonspecific esterase activity , and anchorage-independent growth . the modulation of differentiation pathway from an adipocyte lineage to a macrophagelike cell lineage does not result from the transforming effect of ejras , because a nontransformed cell clone that expresses p21ejras protein also exhibits this modified differentiation pathway . these data suggest that the ejras oncogene specifically modulates the differentiation pathway of 3t3 t mesenchymal stem cells . this experimental system should therefore provide an excellent model to evaluate the mechanistic role of ejras in the process of metaplasia . 
development of multiple necrotizing enteritis induced by a tumor necrosis factor-like cytokine from lipopolysaccharide-stimulated peritoneal macrophages in rats . we report the development of an animal model of multiple necrotizing enteritis ( mne ) in rats . when rats were injected directly with a culture supernatant of lipopolysaccharide ( lps ) - stimulated rat peritoneal macrophages into the abdominal aorta , the overt pathologic lesions of mne developed within 30 minutes after injection . the rats showed an elevated level of blood fibrinogen degradation product content even 30 minutes after injection . furthermore the rats that were pretreated intravenously with heparin sulfate did not develop mne , indicating the acute disturbances of blood microcirculation in the intestine . multiple necrotizing enteritis was developed also by the injection with recombinant tumor necrosis factor ( rtnf ) but rarely was observed with even a high dose of recombinant interleukin-1 ( ril-1 ) or platelet-activating factor ( paf ) . the supernatant was cytotoxic in vitro to tnf-susceptible lm and many other cells but was less cytotoxic to the tnf-resistant lr line . partial purification of the supernatant suggested that the supernatant contained a cytokine that has biochemical features of tnf . furthermore polyclonal anti-tnf antibody could inhibit not only the cytotoxicity in vitro but also mne development in vivo by this factor . these data strongly indicate that mne possibly could be caused by a tnf-like cytokine produced by macrophages that are stimulated by the endotoxin . 
flow cytometric analysis of the mechanism of methylmercury cytotoxicity . flow cytometric analysis of murine erythroleukemic cells ( melc ) exposed in vitro to 2.5 to 7.5 mumol/l ( micromolar ) methylmercury ( mehg ) reveals a dose-dependent decrease in the rate of dna synthesis ( rate of passage through the s phase of the cell cycle ) , manifested as the accumulation of most of the cells in the s phase , and a modest accumulation of cells in the g2/m phase of the cycle . light microscopy reveals a progressive increase in chromosomal damage ( condensation , pulverization ) . at or above 10 mumol/l mehg , progression through all the phases of the cell cycle is blocked and mitotic cells are arrested irreversibly in anaphase , with most exhibiting arrangement of chromosomes in a wreathlike ring formation . also the cells exhibit both nuclear propidium iodide ( pi ) fluorescence ( indicative of loss of viability ) and concurrent cytoplasmic carboxyfluorescein ( cf ) fluorescence ( viable cells exhibit cf fluorescence and exclude pi ) . in addition , there is a dose-dependent increase in cellular refractive index ( 90 degrees light scatter ) , an apparent decrease in cell volume ( axial light loss ) , and progressive resistance to detergent ( np-40 ) - mediated cytolysis . resistance to detergent-mediated cytolysis is indicative of fixation ( protein denaturation , cross-linking , and so on ) of the plasma membrane/cytoplasm complex . our findings indicate that dna synthesis is the primary target of mehg cytotoxicity and that apparent targets and degree of cytotoxicity are a complex function of dose . 
effects of altering the eicosanoid precursor pool on neovascularization and inflammation in the alkali-burned rabbit cornea . the effects of altering the eicosanoid precursor pool on several aspects of the nonimmunologically mediated inflammatory and angiogenic processes that follow 1n and 4n naoh alkali burning of the rabbit cornea were compared with controls . diets were supplemented with several dosages of oils containing either gamma-linolenic acid ( gla ) ( borage oil ) , eicosapentaenoic acid ( epa ) ( sardine oil ) , or a combination of the two in a dose-response protocol . significant changes in serum fatty acid composition were demonstrated . gamma-linolenic acid proved consistently superior to epa in modulating the neovascular response judged by three neovascular indices . at 14 days , gla significantly reduced the polymorphonuclear leukocyte and macrophage inflammatory infiltrate and epa reduced the macrophage component , both with high dose ; epa also reduced keratocyte proliferation . wound-healing parameters were unaffected . evidence for gla-epa synergism was modest . prolonged neovascular responses and chronic inflammation occurring in the clinically relevant context of severe structural damage can be modulated by nutritional alteration of the eicosanoid precursor pool . 
benzodiazepine tranquilizers and the risk of accidental injury . to determine whether benzodiazepine tranquilizers increase the risk of accidental injury requiring medical attention , we used pharmacy claims submitted to a large third-party payer to identify 4,554 persons who had been prescribed these agents and a matched control group of 13,662 persons who had been prescribed drugs other than benzodiazepines . we then used diagnoses recorded on claims submitted by medical care providers to identify all accident-related care received by these persons during three months before their first-observed prescription for a benzodiazepine or nonbenzodiazepine agent , respectively , and six months subsequently . we found accident-related care was more likely among persons who had been prescribed benzodiazepines ; among these persons , the probability of an accident-related medical encounter was higher during months in which a prescription for a benzodiazepine had recently been filled compared to other months ; and persons who had filled three or more prescriptions for these agents in the six months following initiation of therapy had a significantly higher risk of an accident-related medical event than those who had filled only one such prescription . approximately two-fold risks of accident-related care were found , after controlling for age , sex , and prior utilization . 
a case-control study of the effectiveness of bicycle safety helmets in preventing facial injury . in a case-control study we sought to assess the potential effectiveness of helmets in preventing facial injuries . our study included 212 bicyclists with facial injuries and 319 controls with injuries to other body areas , who were treated in emergency rooms of five seattle area hospitals over a one-year period . using regression analyses to control for age , sex , education and income , accident severity , and cycling experience we found no definite effect of helmets on the risk of serious facial injury ( odds ratio 0.81 ; 95 percent confidence interval = 0.45 , 1.5 ) , but protection against serious injuries to the upper face ( odds ratio 0.27 ; 95 % ci = 0.1 , 0.8 ) . no protection was found against serious injuries to the lower face . the independent effect of helmet use on facial injury was difficult to isolate due to the association of head and facial injuries . our results suggest that bicycle helmets as presently designed may have some protective effect against serious upper facial injuries . 
prevalence of chronic bronchitis among us hispanics from the hispanic health and nutrition examination survey , 1982-84 . in the hispanic health and nutrition examination survey ( hhanes ) , puerto ricans had a higher age-adjusted prevalence of self-reported chronic bronchitis ( 2.9 percent , 95 % ci = 2.2 , 3.6 ) than mexican americans ( 1.7 percent , 95 % ci = 1.3 , 2.1 ) or cubans ( 1.7 percent , 95 % ci = 0.9 , 2.5 ) . the prevalence of chronic bronchitis was at least 2 times higher in smokers as compared to nonsmokers among puerto ricans and cubans , but not for mexican americans . 
age , sex , and road-use patterns of motor vehicular trauma in rhode island : a population-based hospital emergency department study . population-based hospital emergency department data on motor vehicle traffic trauma in rhode island , 1984-85 , are analyzed by age , sex , and road-use status . annualized rates of overall and severe trauma were 1,195 cases ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] = 1,164 , 1,225 ) and 102 cases ( 95 % ci = 94 , 111 ) per 100,000 population , respectively . overall and severe rates peaked at ages 15-24 years . male rate excesses were most pronounced for motor-cycle and pedal cycle trauma . 
selective breeding of dogs for segregation of limb edema from microfilaremia as clinical manifestations of brugia infections . three generations of beagles were monitored for microfilaremia ( mf ) and clinical disease during repeated infection with brugia pahangi and were selectively bred for offspring manifesting limb edema and low or amicrofilaremia . a high microfilaremic female mated to a high microfilaremic male produced 7 pups , 6 of which maintained mf greater than 1,000 / ml for greater than 2 years after 5 monthly infections of 10 infective larvae each . an uninfected female mated to another high mf male produced 5 pups , 4 of which did not exceed 1,000 mf/ml 7 months after initiation of the repeating infection regimen ; 1 of these remained amicrofilaremic after 2 additional challenges . neither the parents nor the offspring from these matings manifested chronic limb edema . two matings were conducted with offspring from the microfilaremic female by breeding siblings with the lowest mf and breeding siblings with the highest mf . the high mf siblings produced 4/5 offspring manifesting chronic limb edema ( greater than or equal to 7 months duration ) and either no mf ( in 2 dogs ) or less than 100 mf/ml after the repeating infection regimen . the lower mf siblings produced 5 offspring , all with greater than 1,000 mf/ml 6 months after the initiation of the repeating infection regimen ; none manifested edema . comparisons of igg antibody levels , specific for extracts of adult worms , showed no consistent differences between these 2 litters of dogs that could be associated with limb edema or mf when monitored for 16 months ; however , the onset of lymph node enlargement was much earlier in the group of dogs manifesting limb edema than in the other litter . 
physical activity , opportunity for reinfection , and sibling history of heart disease as risk factors for chagas ' cardiopathy . a case-control study was conducted to examine whether physical activity , sibling history of heart disease ( hhd ) , and length of residence in an area endemic for chagas ' disease were associated with the risk of developing chagas ' cardiopathy . two hundred forty-seven cases of chagas ' heart disease and 345 seropositive subjects with normal ecg ( controls ) were selected in a population survey in goiania , brazil . prevalence ratios for exposure variables were estimated for cases in relation to controls and for subgroups of seropositives with selected ecg abnormalities in relation to controls . increasing age and male sex were consistently and significantly related to an increased risk of ecg abnormalities . hhd was significantly associated with ecg alterations in 3 of the 5 comparison subgroups ( any ecg alteration , right bundle branch block , and left anterior hemiblock ) . no association was found between length of residence in an area endemic , physical activity , and ecg abnormalities . a sample of 529 seronegative subjects were also examined and the interaction between exposure variables and seropositivity was tested to assess whether the associations found were specific for seropositives . males were at greater risk of any ecg alteration and left anterior hemiblock in relation to females if they were seropositive . an increasing risk of ventricular premature beats with age was clearer for seropositive than for seronegative subjects . subjects with hhd were at an increased risk of ecg abnormalities and this was greater in those with a positive serological test ( p less than 0.05 ) . the findings suggest a possible geographical clustering or a familial aggregation of cases of chagas ' heart disease . 
recurrence rate after discontinuation of long-term mebendazole therapy in alveolar echinococcosis ( preliminary results ) . the recurrence rate was investigated in 19 patients with non-resectable alveolar echinococcosis after discontinuation of a long-term therapy with mebendazole ( average treatment 4.3 years ) . a control group consisted of 14 patients who underwent radical surgery and finished a course of prophylactic postoperative mebendazole treatment of 2 years . in the controls , no recurrence was observed after a post-therapy period averaging 3.5 years . in contrast , recurrence occurred in 7/19 patients ( 37 % ) with non-resectable alveolar echinococcosis an average of 1.6 years after discontinuation of the long-term mebendazole therapy . the absence of clinically detectable recurrence in the remaining 12 patients seems to be due either to spontaneous inactivation of alveolar echinococcosis preceding chemotherapy or too short post-therapy surveillance . the patients with recurrence responded favorably to reintroduction of chemotherapy . the data indicate that mebendazole therapy is parasitostatic rather than parasiticidal . 
pouch outlet obstruction following vertical ring gastroplasty for morbid obesity . we have experienced a 14 % ( 38 of 264 patients ) incidence of pouch outlet obstruction following vertical ring gastroplasty . initial management consisted of dilatation in 34 of 38 patients ( 94 % ) . ten of 34 patients ( 29 % ) were spared reoperation by 1 to 3 dilatations . non-passage of an endoscope through the stoma immediately following dilatation predicted the need for surgery ; 4 of 11 patients ( 36 % ) with passage underwent reoperation compared with 17 of 20 patients ( 85 % ) without passage ( p less than 0.02 ) . surgical findings included " tipped bands " in 9 of 28 patients ( 32 % ) ; fibrous reaction to the band in 10 of 28 patients ( 36 % ) ; adhesions with angulation of the pouch in 2 of 28 patients ( 7 % ) ; and no identifiable cause of obstruction in 7 of 28 patients ( 25 % ) . surgical therapy consisted of removal of the band ( 2 patients ) , removal of the band and replacement with a similar length or larger band ( 20 patients ) , " tacking " the band in the horizontal position ( 4 patients ) , or conversion to a roux-y bypass ( 2 patients ) . the first three options were associated with an unacceptably high rate of weight regain and/or continued symptoms , whereas the last-named procedure met with good success . 
an outpatient anticoagulation protocol managed by a vascular nurse-clinician . lifetime anticoagulation has become a therapeutic option for surgical patients with hypercoagulable states or prosthetic arterial bypass grafts . however , physicians may not achieve optimal anticoagulation or may attempt to limit the length of the therapy period because of the perceived morbidity from hemorrhagic complications of coumadin therapy . a protocol for anticoagulant therapy monitored and regulated by a vascular nurse-clinician was reviewed . coumadin was prescribed for 1,891 patient-months to 93 patients to maintain their prothrombin time 1.5 to 2 times control ( range : 18 to 24 seconds ) . the mean ( + / - sd ) prothrombin time for the study population was 19.8 + / - 1.8 seconds . during follow-up , 472 ( 14 % ) of 3,479 prothrombin times measured were below the therapeutic range ( n = 232 ) or prolonged ( n = 240 ) , prompting an adjustment in the coumadin dose in 82 ( 88 % ) patients . four patients developed recurrent vascular graft thrombosis while receiving anticoagulation . there were 6 major and 11 minor hemorrhagic complications . patients with a chronic risk for arterial or venous thrombosis can have out-patient anticoagulant therapy administered at optimal intensity and regulated safely with a low incidence of hemorrhagic and thrombotic events . 
effects of spermatic vascular division for correction of the high undescended testis on testicular function . orchiopexy with division of the spermatic artery and veins is a commonly used technique for correcting the high undescended testis , although the longterm results have not been clearly defined . the left spermatic artery and veins of 22 adult wistar albino rats were divided while preserving the vessels associated with the vas and cremaster muscle ( dt ) . a sham operation was performed on the left testicle of six additional rats ( st ) . at 3 weeks postoperatively , both testes from all rats were removed . all testes were viable and bled when incised , although bleeding was considerably reduced in testes with dt . mean testicular weights after dt were 1,061 + / - 423 mg compared with 1,634 + / - 125 mg for st rats ( p less than 0.02 ) and 1,508 + / - 119 mg for contralateral testes . the mean tubular diameter after dt was 220 + / - 37 mu compared with 303.1 + / - 10.7 mu for st testes ( p less than 0.02 ) . the testicular biopsy score based upon the morphology of the spermatic tubules was 4.46 + / - 3.32 for dt testes and 8.65 + / - 0.23 for st testes ( p less than 0.02 ) compared with 8.38 + / - 0.18 for contralateral testes and an absolute normal value of 10 . no morphologic abnormalities were observed in the contralateral unoperated testes from any of the rats . the contralateral testes in 12 additional rats were removed before dt . the mean testosterone values in these rats with one testicle was 1.43 + / - 0.75 ng/ml . three weeks after dt , testosterone values were 0.19 + / - 0.31 ng/ml ( p less than 0.01 ) . it is concluded that division of the main spermatic artery and vein in rats produces testicular atrophy with spermatogenic arrest and interstitial cell dysfunction . although collateral blood flow to the testis may be demonstrated , tissue perfusion is inadequate for normal spermatogenesis and endocrine function . 
hypothermia and acidosis worsen coagulopathy in the patient requiring massive transfusion . massive transfusion may cause abnormalities of electrolytes , clotting factors , ph , and temperature and may occur in a scenario of refractory coagulopathy and irreversible shock . identification of correctable variables to improve survival is complicated by the interplay of this pathophysiology . temperature may be an under-appreciated problem in the genesis of coagulopathy . in vitro studies have demonstrated that platelet function and vascular response are critically temperature-dependent . we reviewed the records of 45 trauma patients without head injury or co-morbid medical illness who required massive transfusions . the mean injury severity score was 55 + / - 6 , a mean of 22.5 + / - 5 units of blood was transfused , and mortality was 33 % . nonsurvivors were more likely to have had penetrating injury ( 88 % versus 55 % ) , received more transfusions ( 26.5 + / - 9 versus 18.6 + / - 1 , p less than 0.05 ) , had lower ph ( ph 7.04 + / - 0.06 versus 7.18 + / - 0.02 , p less than 0.05 ) , had lower core temperature ( 31 + / - 1 degree c versus 34 + / - 1 degree c , p less than 0.01 ) , and had a higher incidence of clinical coagulopathy ( 73 % versus 23 % ) . severe hypothermia ( temperature less than 34 degrees c ) occurred in 80 % of the nonsurvivors and in 36 % of survivors . patients who were hypothermic and acidotic developed clinically significant bleeding despite adequate blood , plasma , and platelet replacement . avoidance or correction of hypothermia may be critical in preventing or correcting coagulopathy in the patient receiving massive transfusion . 
admissions to the intensive care unit after complications of anaesthetic techniques over 10 years . 2 . the second 5 years compared with the first 5 years there was a 19 % increase in general anaesthetics , a 171 % increase in local and ( or ) sedation techniques and a 9 % increase in obstetric epidurals with no increase in anaesthetic staffing . in this second 5-year period , 46 patients were admitted to the intensive care unit as a result of a complication of an anaesthetic technique . these patients represented 1 in 2371 anaesthetic techniques carried out in the district compared with the previous 5 years where the incidence was 1 in 1543 . seven patients died ( 15.2 % ) . the complication was considered to be wholly or partially avoidable in 14 instances ( 30.4 % ) . four of these subjects died . 
intravenous fluid load and recovery . a double-blind comparison in gynaecological patients who had day-case laparoscopy . the effect of intra-operative fluid and dextrose administration upon recovery was tested in a randomised , double-blind trial . three groups of 25 patients , each undergoing laparoscopic examination as day cases , were studied . the two groups who received fluid ( 20 ml/kg compound sodium lactate solution ) showed significant improvement ( p less than 0.05 ) in the variables that reflected hydration . the fluid group who also received dextrose ( 1 g/kg ) exhibited further significant improvement . intra-operative fluid and dextrose administration appears to confer some benefit upon recovery in patients who have minor surgery . 
attenuation of suxamethonium myalgias . effect of midazolam and vecuronium . we studied the incidence of fasciculations and postoperative myalgias in 100 female outpatients who had laparoscopy under thiopentone , n2o , isoflurane anaesthesia . four groups of 20 patients each were pretreated with saline ( group 1 ) , tubocurarine 0.05 mg/kg ( group 2 ) , vecuronium 0.006 mg/kg ( group 3 ) , or midazolam 0.025 mg/kg ( group 4 ) , followed by suxamethonium 1.5 mg/kg . group 5 received only vecuronium 0.1 mg/kg as relaxant ( no suxamethonium ) . fasciculations were graded , and postoperative myalgias rated on the first and third postoperative days . in groups 1-5 the incidence of fasciculations was 95 , 15 , 25 , 95 and 0 % ; the incidence of myalgias on the first day after operation was 70 , 45 , 65 , 75 and 60 % , and on the third day after operation 20 , 5 , 20 , 20 , and 5 % , respectively . we conclude that pretreatment with vecuronium , but not midazolam , decreases the incidence of fasciculations after suxamethonium ( p less than 0.05 ) and that in this patient population , postoperative myalgias appear to be unrelated to the use of suxamethonium . 
clinical presentation of suspected malignant hyperthermia during anaesthesia in 402 probands . as anaesthetists have become more aware of malignant hyperthermia the mortality rate has fallen , but concommitantly the number of dubious and aborted cases has increased . all probands who developed a suspected malignant hyperthermia reaction during anaesthesia and subsequently underwent muscle biopsy were classified according to the clinical presentation . a probability for malignant hyperthermia can be calculated , using the classification , for each type of clinical presentation ; this varied from 0.96 to 0.07 . certain clinical features were found to be of more value as predictors than others ; these included a high creative kinase and myoglobinuria . the accuracy of prediction depends on a clear contemporaneous description of the clinical events . 
laryngeal oedema from a neck haematoma . a complication of internal jugular vein cannulation . laryngeal oedema occurred after formation of a neck haematoma after attempted internal jugular vein cannulation . this resulted in complete respiratory obstruction and respiratory arrest and it was impossible to ventilate her lungs manually or intubate her trachea . oxygenation of the patient was only possible using transtracheal ventilation . 
adverse haemodynamic effects of high-dose aprotinin in a paediatric cardiac surgical patient . high-dose aprotinin for reduction of intra - and postoperative blood loss was associated with profound hypotension and flushing in a 3.5-year-old child who underwent cardiac surgery . treatment with noradrenaline and intravenous fluid was required . cardiovascular stability was restored after 10 minutes . 
minitracheotomy : complications and follow-up with fibreoptic tracheoscopy . complications and changes in tracheal mucosa after minitracheotomy were evaluated in 28 patients . tracheal mucosa was inspected fibreoptically after the insertion of a minitracheotomy cannula , and then at 3-day intervals until the cannula was removed . thereafter , assessments were made every third day until the mucosa was considered normal . three significant complications occurred : mediastinal puncture , paratracheal entrance of the cannula and subcutaneous emphysema . difficulties at insertion of the minitracheotomy cannula were encountered in 15 of 28 patients ( 54 % ) . air flow detected through the cannula in one patient , and lack of air flow in another patient , were misleading signs of the position of the cannula . passing a suction catheter in three patients and a normal end-tidal carbon dioxide tracing in one patient , were also found to be misleading . the correct position and possible complications could be verified only by fibreoptic tracheoscopy . changes in the tracheal mucosa were independent of the duration of minitracheotomy therapy . 
epidurography in premature infants . a caudal epidural catheter was inserted in 20 premature , high risk infants for abdominal or thoracic surgery under combined caudal epidural and general anaesthesia . epidurography was used to confirm the position of the catheter which was found to be misplaced in three patients . the catheter penetrated the dura in one case , in another the tip was located in an epidural vessel and in the third the catheter was seen to be curled up within the epidural space . it was concluded that epidurographic control is essential with this method of anaesthesia in very small infants , in whom it was found to provide considerable advantages despite serious risks . 
anaesthetic problems in ex situ resection of the liver . ex-situ resection of the liver is a new surgical technique for treatment of liver tumours not amenable to conventional surgery . this paper describes the cardiovascular and metabolic changes that occurred in nine consecutive such patients . no severe haemodynamic or pulmonary complications occurred . specific problems were encountered during the prolonged anhepatic period , which lasted an average of 5.96 ( sd 1.46 ) hours . significant metabolic and coagulation disorders occurred 2 to 3 hours after hepatectomy because of complete loss of hepatic function . the predominant findings during the anhepatic period were hypoglycaemia and severe metabolic acidosis , mainly from increased levels of lactic acid . exogenous administration of dextrose 5 % at an average rate of 188 ml/hour was necessary to maintain normoglycaemia , while correction of metabolic acidosis required 403 ( sd 159.79 ) mmol of sodium bicarbonate , supplemented by hyperventilation . tris-hydroxymethylaminomethane was used when sodium overload was thought to be a problem . there was a marked decrease of factor v and fibrinogen , a moderate thrombocytopenia and fibrinolysis . the severity of these alterations was dependent on the duration of the anhepatic period and the primary function of the re-implanted liver . 
intravenous diclofenac sodium . does its administration before operation suppress postoperative pain ? intravenous diclofenac sodium was evaluated in a double-blind randomised trial relative to intramuscular diclofenac , intravenous fentanyl , and intramuscular placebo in 160 patients undergoing extraction of impacted lower third molar teeth . the test drug was administered before operation in an attempt to alleviate postoperative pain . a 10-cm visual analogue scale was used to assess pain at 30 minutes and one day after surgery , if the patients stayed overnight . patients who received intravenous diclofenac had significantly less pain than the other groups 30 minutes after operation . they also had significantly less pain one day after surgery than the placebo or opioid groups , but not less than the intramuscular diclofenac group . capillary bleeding time , in comparison with placebo , was significantly prolonged after the use of intramuscular diclofenac , and a similar but nonsignificant trend was observed in the intravenous diclofenac group . no problems were encountered with excessive bleeding in any group . 
an evaluation of a 30-gauge needle for spinal anaesthesia for caesarean section . a 30-gauge spinal needle was evaluated for caesarean section , using a combined epidural/spinal technique , in 50 mothers . spinal anaesthesia failed in six mothers and was inadequate in another six . general anaesthesia was required on one occasion . a 25 % overall failure rate suggests that a 30-gauge needle is not a practical proposition for routine clinical practice . 
intrathecal anaesthesia for day-care surgery . a retrospective study of 160 cases using 25 - and 26-gauge spinal needles . the records of 160 day-care surgical patients who received intrathecal anaesthesia were reviewed . no major complications were recorded . the incidence of postspinal headache after puncture with a 25-gauge spinal needle was nearly four times more frequent compared to a 26-gauge needle . the occurrence of postspinal headache in patients over the age of 45 years was significantly less frequent ( p less than 0.05 ) than in younger patients . intrathecal anaesthesia was acceptable to 91 % of outpatients in this group . 
acid aspiration prophylaxis in 288 obstetric anaesthetic departments in the united kingdom . the choice of drugs for acid aspiration prophylaxis in 288 obstetric anaesthetic departments in the united kingdom was determined by questionnaire . the results are compared with a similar survey of anaesthetic departments 5 years ago . the prescription of sodium citrate and the h2 receptor antagonist ranitidine has superseded that of mist . magnesium trisilicate . 
effect on outcome of prolonged exposure of patients to nitrous oxide . prolonged ( several days or repeated ) exposure to nitrous oxide ( n2o ) can cause injury or death . to assess whether relatively prolonged anesthesia with n2o in normal patients might similarly cause untoward effects , we investigated whether the addition of n2o to isoflurane anesthesia caused injury to patients having surgical resection of acoustic neuroma lasting approximately 10 h. twenty-six patients undergoing surgical resection of acoustic neuroma were randomly assigned to a regimen that included or excluded n2o ( 50 % -60 % ) during isoflurane anesthesia plus intravenous adjuvants . on average , slightly less isoflurane ( 0.24 % ) was used during anesthesia with n2o . we measured standard clinical variables ( blood pressure , heart rate ) , oxygen saturation , neurologic status , pain , and the incidence and type of morbid outcomes . exposure to n2o did not increase the incidence of morbid outcomes ( including hepatic injury , infection , or hypoxemia ) , prolong hospitalization , or increase common postoperative complaints such as nausea , vomiting , coughing , or headache . patients anesthetized with either regimen were equally satisfied with their anesthetic . 
postoperative hypoxemia after nonabdominal surgery : a frequent event not caused by nitrous oxide . we tested whether anesthesia that includes nitrous oxide ( n2o ) results in the development of intraoperative and postoperative pulmonary complications , including hypoxemia . we also tested whether aging contributes to the development of such complications , particularly when anesthesia includes n2o . we randomly allocated patients having total hip replacements , carotid endarterectomies , or transsphenoidal hypophysectomies ( total n = 270 ) to an anesthetic regimen with and without n2o ( stratified within surgical group ) . a heat-and-moisture exchanger was included in the anesthetic circuit of all patients . patients were monitored perioperatively and for 1 wk after surgery using intermittent and continuous pulse oximetry to determine oxyhemoglobin saturation . intraoperatively , mean oxygen ( o2 ) saturations were lower in patients given n2o , particularly older patients . hypoxemia ( o2 saturation less than 86 % ) developed in five patients receiving n2o and in one receiving o2 . this difference was not significant . administration of n2o did not decrease postoperative o2 saturation , nor did it alter the incidence of postoperative hypoxemia , cough , or sputum production . 
nitrous oxide and epinephrine-induced arrhythmias . we asked whether the sympathomimetic effect of nitrous oxide ( n2o ) predisposed patients receiving n2o to arrhythmias in response to epinephrine administration . we also asked whether aging contributed to the development of arrhythmias , with or without n2o . one hundred patients having transsphenoidal hypophysectomy were randomly assigned to receive anesthesia including ( n = 49 ) or excluding ( n = 51 ) n2o . all patients were given an injection of epinephrine 1:200,000 , with 0.5 % lidocaine to produce hemostasis . using intermittent 12-lead and continuous lead ii electrocardiography , we determined the incidence of premature ventricular contraction , isorhythmic atrioventricular ( av ) dissociation , and changes in t-wave morphology . patients given n2o had a significantly higher incidence of isorhythmic av dissociation ( 61.2 % vs 41.2 % ) . a trend toward a higher incidence of multiple premature ventricular contractions ( 16.3 % vs 7.8 % ) was not statistically significant . both anesthetic groups had a high incidence of postoperative changes in t-wave morphology ( 46.9 % in the n2o group vs 50.9 % in the group not given n2o ) . aging alone did not affect the incidence of ventricular ectopic beats , isorhythmic av dissociation , or changes in electrocardiographic morphology , but correlated with the development of ventricular ectopy during n2o anesthesia . we conclude that the use of n2o correlated with a higher incidence of isorhythmic av dissociation in response to injection of epinephrine with lidocaine . 
lidocaine local anesthesia for arthroscopic knee surgery . forty-five patients were evaluated during knee arthroscopy performed using local anesthesia produced by lidocaine with epinephrine to determine the dose-response relationship for operative analgesia . serum lidocaine concentrations were also measured . patients were randomized prospectively to receive 20 ml of 0.5 % , 1.0 % , or 1.5 % lidocaine with epinephrine intraarticularly . intraoperative discomfort was measured by verbal response on an 11-point linear pain scale . pain scores were significantly higher in patients receiving 0.5 % lidocaine during the first 45 min of surgery ( p = 0.03 ) . after 45 min , pain scores continued to be higher in the 0.5 % lidocaine group than in the 1.0 % or 1.5 % groups , but the differences were not statistically significant . ninety-four percent of patients in the 1.5 % lidocaine group were willing to repeat this anesthetic technique for surgery compared with 83 % of those in the 1.0 % lidocaine group and 75 % of those in the 0.5 % lidocaine group ( p greater than 0.05 ) . the duration of postoperative analgesia was similar in all groups . serum lidocaine concentrations before and 15 , 30 , 60 , and 120 min after instillation of lidocaine were highest in the 1.5 % lidocaine group with a peak concentration of 278 ng/ml . no patient had symptoms of lidocaine toxicity . we recommend that lidocaine concentrations of 1.0 % or 1.5 % be used when 20 ml is instilled intraarticularly for knee arthroscopy based on patient comfort and absence of lidocaine toxicity . 
emergency tracheal intubation in the postanesthesia care unit : physician error or patient disease ? inadequate airway maintenance has been a major factor in perioperative morbidity . to determine the incidence and etiology of emergency tracheal intubations in the postanesthesia care unit ( pacu ) , we retrospectively reviewed 13,593 consecutive admissions to our pacu from october 1986 through october 1988 . twenty-six patients ( 26/13 ,593 = 0.19 % ) required the insertion of an endotracheal tube while in the pacu . seventy-seven percent ( 20/26 ) of the intubations occurred within 1 h of extubation and/or admission to the pacu . intubation was more common at the extremes of age ; 54 % of those intubated were more than 60 yr old ( p = 0.003 ) ; 19 % were less than 3 yr old ( p less than 0.05 ) . twenty-three percent of the intubated patients had undergone otolaryngologic procedures ( p = 0.008 ) . interestingly , 73 % of the intubations occurred during the months of january through june ( p = 0.016 ) . median pacu admission scores were lower for the intubated group ( p less than 0.001 ) . there was no association between intubation and gender ( p = 0.74 ) , anesthetic technique ( p = 0.41 ) , or anesthetic agent ( p = 0.49 ) . of the 26 intubations , 18 ( 69 % ) were considered to be directly related to anesthetic management . despite the extremely low incidence of emergency tracheal intubation in a heterogeneous group of patients admitted to our pacu , preventable anesthesia-related etiologic factors including excessive sedative or anesthetic effect , inappropriate fluid management , persistent muscle relaxant effect , and upper airway obstruction contributed to the majority of these intubations . 
electroencephalographic changes during brief cardiac arrest in humans . slowing and attenuation of the dominant frequency of the electroencephalogram ( eeg ) are changes commonly used to detect cerebral ischemia . to assess the validity of this method , the eegs recorded during 93 episodes of circulatory arrest in ten normothermic , lightly anesthetized patients undergoing implantation of automatic internal cardioverting defibrillators ( aicds ) were visually inspected for change . the number of events recorded for each patient varied from 5 to 18 and was a function of the duration and success of aicd testing in each patient . in 82 of 93 ( 88 % ) episodes , eeg changes were identified , and occurred an average of 10.2 s after the last normal heart beat . of these 82 , 67 ( 82 % ) illustrated slowing and attenuation . however , 15 ( 18 % ) of the hemodynamic events showed changes not previously described as indicative of cerebral ischemia : 6 ( 7 % ) showed a loss of delta-wave activity and 9 ( 11 % ) showed an increase in the amplitude of theta activity . time to onset of these unusual changes ( 10.6 and 9.2 s , respectively ) was not significantly different from that for eeg slowing and attenuation ( 10.2 s ) . five of the ten subjects showed more than one pattern of eeg change . there was no significant difference in the time to onset of eeg change among individual patients , and neither were there differences in patterns of change associated with particular anesthetic agents . these results indicate that in normothermic , lightly anesthetized individuals , cerebral ischemia may cause changes in eeg pattern other than slowing and attenuation of dominant frequencies . these alternative patterns should be recognized as indicative of cerebral ischemia when intraoperative eeg monitoring is performed . 
chloroprocaine antagonism of epidural opioid analgesia : a receptor-specific phenomenon ? sixty healthy patients scheduled for elective cesarean delivery under epidural anesthesia were randomized to receive either lidocaine or 2-chloroprocaine as the primary local anesthetic agent . when patients first complained of postoperative pain in the recovery room , they were given either fentanyl 50 micrograms or butorphanol 2 mg , epidurally , in a randomized , blinded fashion . postoperative analgesia , quantitated on a visual analogue scale , as well as time elapsed until first request for supplemental opioid , did not differ for patients receiving butorphanol after either 2-chloroprocaine or lidocaine anesthesia . in contrast , epidural fentanyl produced a shorter and lesser degree of sensory analgesia after 2-chloroprocaine use , whereas epidural fentanyl after lidocaine anesthesia provided pain relief similar to that seen in the butorphanol groups . side effects were limited to somnolence with butorphanol and pruritus with fentanyl . no evidence of respiratory depression was seen in any patient . we conclude that 2 mg of butorphanol epidurally provides approximately 2 to 3 h of effective analgesia after cesarean delivery with either lidocaine or 2-chloroprocaine anesthesia . epidural fentanyl seems to be antagonized when 2-chloroprocaine , but not lidocaine , is used as the primary local anesthetic agent . we suggest a possible mu-receptor-specific etiology for this effect . 
exogenous opioids in human breast milk and acute neonatal neurobehavior : a preliminary study . opioid analgesia requirements , distribution into breast milk , and influence on neonatal neurobehavior were evaluated in ten parturient-neonate pairs nursing after elective cesarean section during epidural anesthesia . five patients received first a loading dose of intravenous meperidine after umbilical cord clamping , then patient-controlled analgesia ( pca ) with intravenous meperidine , and finally meperidine tablets as needed . five patients received morphine in the same manner . treatment groups showed no differences with respect to neonatal apgar scores or visual analog scale ( vas ) pain or satisfaction scores at 24 and 48 h postpartum . breast milk specimens , obtained at 12 , 24 , 36 , 48 , 72 , and 96 h postpartum and analyzed for opioids and metabolites , showed persistently elevated normeperidine concentrations in the meperidine group . a blinded psychologist evaluated each infant once on the 3rd day of life with the brazelton neonatal behavioral assessment scale ( nbas ) . a priori , the " alertness " and three " human orientation " outcomes of the nbas were chosen for analysis as best measures of opioid-induced effects . on all four outcomes , neonates in the morphine group scored significantly higher ( p less than 0.05 ) than neonates in the meperidine group . we conclude that post-cesarean delivery pca with morphine provides equivalent maternal analgesia and overall satisfaction as that provided by pca with meperidine , but with significantly less neurobehavioral depression among breast-fed neonates on the 3rd day of life . 
hypoxemia in the postanesthesia care unit : an observer study to determine the incidence and duration of hypoxemia in the postanesthesia care unit ( pacu ) , 200 patients were investigated in a single-blind observer study . the number of unrecognized hypoxemic episodes , as well as risk factors and possible association between hypoxemia and postoperative morbidity , were studied . oxygenation was monitored continuously with a pulse oximeter . one or more hypoxemic episodes ( spo2 less than or equal to 90 % ) were noted in 55 % of the patients . spo2 values less than or equal to 80 % were noted in 13 % of the patients . supplementary oxygen was given during 55 % of the 447 hypoxemic episodes registered . the hypoxemic episodes were unrecognized by the staff in 95 % of the cases . with stepwise multiple logistic regression analyses , risk factors associated with a higher incidence of hypoxemia were : duration of anesthesia ( p less than 0.0001 ) , age ( p less than 0.002 ) and a history of smoking ( p less than 0.01 ) . patients who had undergone regional anesthesia had a lower risk of hypoxemia ( p less than 0.0002 ) . the occurrence of hypoxemia in the pacu could not be correlated to postoperative morbidity . we conclude that hypoxemic episodes in our pacu are common and that the routine use of supplemental oxygen combined with normal clinical surveillance did not prevent hypoxemic episodes . 
differential protective effects of halothane and isoflurane against hypoxic and reoxygenation injury in the isolated guinea pig heart . the authors investigated the effects of halothane ( hal ) and isoflurane ( iso ) on cardiac depression produced by global hypoxia and the recovery of function following reoxygenation is isolated guinea pig hearts perfused with krebs ' solution at constant pressure . isovolumetric left ventricular systolic ( lvsp ) and end-diastolic pressures ( lvedp ) were measured by placing a saline filled , latex balloon into the left ventricle . bipolar electrodes were placed in the right atrium and right ventricle for measurements of heart rate ( hr ) , atrioventricular conduction time ( avct ) , and determination of the incidence and severity of dysrhythmias occurring during hypoxia and reoxygenation . hearts were divided into three groups : control ( n = 20 ) , halothane ( n = 12 ) , and isoflurane ( n = 13 ) . all hearts were exposed in sequence to oxygenated perfusate ( po2 , 530 mmhg ) , moderately hypoxic perfusate ( po2 , 91 mmhg ) for 30 min , and then to oxygenated perfusate for 40 min . halothane ( 1 % , 0.4 mm ) or isoflurane ( 1.5 % , 0.5 mm ) were administered 10 min before hypoxia , during hypoxia , and during the first 10 min of reoxygenation . exposure to halothane and isoflurane before hypoxia produced a 14 and 11 % decrease in heart rate , a 32 and 23 % increase in avct , and a 47 and 28 % decrease in lvsp ( all p less than or equal to 0.001 ) for halothane and isoflurane , respectively , and no significant change in lvedp . during hypoxia , hr decreased and avct increased similarly in both groups . left ventricular systolic pressure ( lvsp ) decreased sharply with a narrowing of the prehypoxic differences among the groups . in the control and isoflurane groups , lvedp increased during hypoxia but remained unchanged in the halothane group . 
survival rates from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest : recommendations for uniform definitions and data to report . survival rates for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest vary widely among locations . we surveyed the definitions used in published studies of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest . data from 74 studies involving 36 communities showed survival rates ranging from 2 % to 44 % . there were five different case definitions and 11 different definitions of survivors . the absence of uniform definitions prevents meaningful intersystem comparisons , prohibits explorations of hypotheses about effective interventions , and interferes with the efforts of quality assurance . the most satisfactory numerator for a survival rate appears to be survival to hospital discharge ; the most appropriate denominator appears to be witnessed adult cardiac arrest of presumed heart disease etiology , with ventricular fibrillation as the initial identified rhythm . proposed definitions for the data emergency medical services systems should report as they examine their cardiac arrest survival rates are presented . 
prehospital prophylactic lidocaine does not favorably affect outcome in patients with chest pain . study objectives : the purpose of our study was to determine the morbidity and mortality in initially stable patients presenting to paramedics with chest pain ; to examine possible beneficial effects of its use , including reduction of sudden death syndrome in the prehospital and emergency department setting ; and to determine if prophylactic lidocaine is associated with adverse effects in this patient population . design and setting : this was a randomized , prospective study using prophylactic lidocaine in patients complaining of chest pain who presented to our paramedic system between january 1984 and january 1988 . type of participants : all patients aged 18 years or older with chest pain of suspected cardiac origin who presented to paramedics during the study period were included . excluded were patients presenting with warning arrhythmias , second - or third-degree heart block , bradycardias of less than 50 , hypotension of less than 90 mm hg systolic , or known allergy to lidocaine . interventions : patients were randomized into two groups , the lidocaine-treated group and the control group . an initial bolus of 1 mg/kg iv lidocaine was administered to the lidocaine-treated group . a simultaneous 2 mg/min iv drip was established . ten minutes after the first dose of lidocaine , a second bolus of 0.5 mg/kg was administered . measurements and main results : during the study period , 1,427 patients were entered ; 704 received lidocaine , and 723 did not . discharge diagnoses included acute myocardial infarction ( 31 % ) , unstable angina ( 33 % ) , other cardiac problems ( 7 % ) , and noncardiac problems ( 29 % ) ; overall mortality rate was 7.4 % . there was an equal distribution of deaths between the lidocaine-treated group ( 57 ) and the control group ( 48 ) . six patients had a cardiac arrest in the prehospital setting , and 15 had a cardiac arrest in the ed . malignant ventricular arrhythmias as the precipitating arrest rhythm in patients with acute myocardial infarctions were similar for the lidocaine-treated and control groups . the incidence of adverse effects , including hypotension , bradycardias , second - or third-degree heart blocks , tinnitus , and altered mental status , was similar in both groups . conclusion : there are no benefits from the administration of prehospital prophylactic lidocaine in stable patients with chest pain ; therefore , routine use in this setting appears unwarranted . 
the diagnostic impact of prehospital 12-lead electrocardiography . study hypothesis : it is feasible to apply prehospital 12-lead electrocardiography to most stable prehospital chest pain patients . prehospital diagnostic accuracy is improved compared with single-lead telemetry . population : one-hundred sixty-six stable adult patients who sought paramedic evaluation for a chief complaint of nontraumatic chest pain . methods : one-hundred fifty-one prehospital 12-lead ecgs of diagnostic quality were obtained by paramedics on 166 adult patients presenting with nontraumatic chest pain . paramedics and base station physicians were blinded to the information on acquired prehospital 12-lead ecgs and treated patients according to current standard of care-clinical diagnosis and single-lead telemetry . final hospital diagnoses were classified into three groups : acute myocardial infarction ( 24 ) ; suspected angina or ischemia ( 61 ) ; and nonischemic chest pain ( 66 ) . paramedics and base station physicians ' clinical diagnoses and prehospital and emergency department ecgs were similarly classified and compared . prehospital and ed 12-lead ecgs were read retrospectively by two cardiologists . results : paramedics achieved a high success rate ( 98.7 % ) in obtaining diagnostic quality prehospital 12-lead ecgs in 94.6 % of eligible prehospital patients . for patients with acute myocardial infarction , prehospital ecg alone had significantly higher specificity than did the paramedic clinical diagnosis ( 99.2 % vs 70.9 % ; p less than .001 ) , and significantly higher positive predictive value ( 92.9 % vs 32.7 % ; p less than .001 ) . for patients with angina , combining the paramedic clinical diagnosis and the prehospital ecg significantly improved sensitivity ( 90.2 % vs 62.3 % ; p less than .001 ) and increased negative predictive value ( 88.9 % vs 71.3 % ; p less than .02 ) compared with paramedic clinical diagnosis alone . there was a high concordance between prehospital and ed ecg diagnosis ( 99.3 % for acute myocardial infarction and 92.8 % for angina ) . furthermore , ten patients whose prehospital ecgs demonstrated ischemia and who had final hospital diagnoses of angina or acute myocardial infarction were mistriaged by paramedics and/or received no base station physician-directed therapy . conclusion : it is feasible to apply prehospital 12-lead electrocardiography to most stable prehospital chest pain patients . prehospital 12-lead ecgs have the potential to significantly increase the diagnostic accuracy in chest pain patients , approach congruity with ed 12-lead ecg diagnoses , and may allow for consideration of altering and improving prehospital and hospital-based management in this patient population . 
successful cpr in a severely hypothermic patient using continuous thoracostomy lavage . severe hypothermia with cardiopulmonary arrest often requires prolonged resuscitation while rewarming procedures are implemented . a 63-year-old male in cardiopulmonary arrest with a core body temperature of 23.7 c was resuscitated successfully after core rewarming by means of a two-chest-tube continuous thoracostomy lavage procedure . this lavage procedure resulted in effective and rapid rewarming after other conventional rewarming methods had failed . 
early detection of acute myocardial infarction in patients presenting with chest pain and nondiagnostic ecgs : serial ck-mb sampling in the emergency department [ published erratum appears in ann emerg med 1991 apr ; 20 ( 4 ) :420 ] study objectives : patients presenting to the emergency department with chest discomfort are a difficult problem for emergency physicians . nearly 50 % of patients with acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) will initially have nondiagnostic ecgs on ed presentation . the purpose of this study was to determine if patients with ami having nondiagnostic ecgs could be identified using new immunochemical assays for serial ck-mb sampling in the ed . design : chest pain patients , more than 30 years old , with pain not caused by trauma or explained by radiographic findings , were eligible for the study . serial serum samples were drawn on ed presentation ( zero hours ) and three hours after presentation , then analyzed for ck-mb using four immunochemical methods and electrophoresis . standard world health organization criteria were used to establish the diagnosis of ami , including new q-wave formation or elevation of standard in-hospital serum cardiac enzyme markers . setting : a tertiary cardiac care community hospital . measurements and main results : the serum from 183 patients hospitalized for possible ischemic chest pain was collected and analyzed . thirty-one of 183 patients ( 17 % ) were found to have ami by standard in-hospital criteria . sixteen of the 31 patients ( 52 % ) with ami had nondiagnostic ecgs on presentation . immunochemical determination of serial ck-mb levels provided a sensitive and specific method for detecting ami in patients within three hours after ed presentation compared with standard electrophoresis . the four immunochemical methods demonstrated a range in sensitivity from 50 % to 62.1 % on ed presentation versus 92 % to 96.7 % three hours later . the immunochemical tests demonstrated specificities ranging from 83.0 % to 96.4 % at three hours , with three of the four tests having specificities of 92 % or greater . electrophoresis had a sensitivity of 34.5 % on ed presentation , increasing to 76.9 % at three hours , with a specificity of 98.6 % . conclusions : immunochemical ck-mb methods allowed rapid , sensitive detection of ami in the ed . early detection of ami offers many potential advantages to the emergency physician . early detection of ami , while the patient is in the ed , could direct disposition of this potentially unstable patient to an intensive care setting . such information may prevent the ed discharge of patients with ami having nondiagnostic ecgs . the diagnosis of ami within a six-hour period after symptom onset may allow thrombolytic therapy to be given to patients with ami not having diagnostic ecgs . this study served as a pilot trial for a multicenter study of the emergency medicine cardiac research group , which is currently ongoing . 
the validity and reliability of the navicular fat stripe as a screening test for detection of navicular fractures . study objective : the purpose of this study was to determine if the navicular fat stripe ( nfs ) is a valid and reliable screening tool in assessing potential navicular fractures . design : retrospective analysis . setting : minor trauma section of the los angeles county-university of southern california medical center emergency department . type of participants : study population included patients seen for wrist injury between january 1987 and december 1988 . the individuals who interpreted the radiographs included eight observers with varying degrees of radiographic experience . interventions : none measurements and main results : the positive predictive value averaged 12 % or 15 % depending on how we counted a straight nfs , and the negative predictive value averaged 93 % or 95 % , again depending on how we counted a straight nfs . a straight nfs was ten times as likely to occur among normal wrists than among those with navicular fractures . interobserver reliability was found to be high with a hoyt reliability coefficient of .79 . conclusions : an abnormal nfs is a poor predictor of a navicular fracture while both a straight and a normal nfs are good predictors of no navicular fracture . a normal nfs may allow less stringent treatment by the emergency physician . extremes of radiographic experience were found to have no significant effect on nfs interpretation . 
acute abdominal pain in the elderly . study objectives : to determine the incidences of both specific diagnosis and surgical diseases in patients more than 65 years old who present to the emergency department with nontraumatic abdominal pain of less than one week 's duration , and to determine the ed staff 's ability to diagnose and triage elderly patients with acute abdominal pain . design : a 12-month retrospective review of all elderly patients who presented to the ed with acute , nontraumatic abdominal pain . setting : a regional trauma center serving a predominately rural population in the midwest . the ed has 55,000 patient visits yearly . measurements and main results : of the 127 patients enrolled , 30 ( 24 % ) had no specific diagnosis made in the ed . biliary tract disease ( 12 % ) and small bowel obstruction ( 12 % ) were the two most common specific diagnoses . overall , 53 patients ( 42 % ) required surgery , usually during the initial hospitalization . in four cases , the postoperative diagnosis differed significantly from the ed diagnosis . of the 74 patients ( 58 % ) who did not undergo surgery , 51 had follow-up information available . in 14 patients , the follow-up diagnosis differed from the original diagnosis , but most of these changes did not appreciably alter the treatment and outcome . conclusions : the incidence of surgical disease is high in elderly patients with acute abdominal pain , and ed staff are able to diagnose and triage these patients accurately . 
buffered versus plain lidocaine as a local anesthetic for simple laceration repair . study objective : buffered lidocaine was compared with plain lidocaine as a local anesthetic for simple lacerations . design : randomized , double-blind , prospective clinical trial . setting : urban emergency department . type of participants : ninety-one adult patients with simple linear lacerations were enrolled . patients with allergy to lidocaine and patients with an abnormal mental status were excluded . interventions : each wound edge was anesthetized with either plain or buffered lidocaine using a randomized , double-blind protocol . the pain of infiltration was measured with a previously validated visual analog pain scale . measurements and main results : analysis of pooled data and paired data ( using patients as their own controls ) revealed that infiltrating buffered lidocaine was significantly less painful than plain lidocaine ( p = .03 and p = .02 , respectively ) . there was no significant difference in the anesthetic effectiveness of the two agents during suturing . conclusion : buffered lidocaine is preferable to plain lidocaine as a local anesthetic agent for the repair of simple lacerations . 
the lack of full correlation between the injury severity score and the resource needs of injured patients study objective : to determine whether the injury severity score ( iss ) correlates with the resource requirements of severely injured patients by studying the association of the iss with three major interventions ( fluid resuscitation , invasive central nervous system monitoring , and acute operative repair ) trauma centers routinely provide severely injured patients . design : retrospective clinical review . setting : level i trauma center . type of participants : eight hundred fourteen adult injured patients . measurements and main results : when an iss of more than 9 was used as the definition of major trauma , the iss undercorrelated 11 % of the time with the need for any one procedure . when an iss of more than 14 was used as the definition , it undercorrelated 20 % of the time . conclusion : the iss may not be completely correlated with the resource requirements of injured patients and should not be used as the sole means by which to define major injury . 
the trauma triage rule : a new , resource-based approach to the prehospital identification of major trauma victims . study objective : to develop a new trauma decision rule . design : retrospective clinical review . setting : level i trauma center . type of participants : 1,004 injured adults . measurements and main results : a new trauma decision rule was derived from 1,004 injured adult patients using a new operational definition of major trauma . the rule , termed the trauma triage rule , defines a major trauma victim as any injured adult patient whose systolic blood pressure is less than 85 mm hg ; whose motor component of the glasgow coma score is less than 5 ; or who has sustained penetrating trauma of the head , neck , or trunk . using the operational definition of major trauma , the rule had a sensitivity of 92 % and a specificity of 92 % when tested on the 1,004-patient cohort . conclusion : the trauma triage rule may significantly reduce overtriage while only minimally increasing undertriage . this approach must be validated prospectively before it can be used in the prehospital setting . 
occipital condyle fracture presenting as retropharyngeal hematoma . reported is the case of a 30-year-old male motorcycle accident victim who was found on plain cervical-spine radiography to have prevertebral soft-tissue swelling . although subsequent computed tomography demonstrated no cervical-spine fracture , it did reveal a fracture of one occipital condyle . the mechanism , diagnosis , and treatment of occipital condyle fractures are reviewed , as is the ligamentous and fascial anatomy of the cervicocranium . dissection of fracture hematoma inferiorly along vertically oriented tissue planes is hypothesized as the pathogenesis of our patient 's retropharyngeal hematoma . in addition to being a sign of potential cervical-spine injury , post-traumatic prevertebral soft-tissue swelling may also indicate occipital condyle fracture . to avoid overlooking such fractures , computed tomography undertaken to investigate upper cervical-spine prevertebral soft-tissue swelling should always include slices up to the level of the basal skull so as to visualize the condyles . 
chylous drainage from a stab wound to the neck . a 24-year-old man was assaulted and sustained a stab wound to the left lower neck . when he arrived at the emergency department , he was hemodynamically stable . although the wound had penetrated the platysma , on initial evaluation the patient did not appear to have sustained significant injury . closer examination of the wound revealed chylous drainage , indicating injury to the cervical portion of the thoracic duct . the patient was taken to the operating room for exploration of the wound , during which an injury to the left internal jugular vein was identified and repaired . the thoracic duct , which had been severed , was ligated . the remainder of the patient 's hospital course was unremarkable . the consistent association between penetrating injury to the cervical portion of the thoracic duct and injury to neighboring vascular structures is discussed . 
characterization of distal bronchial microflora during acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis . use of the protected specimen brush technique in 54 mechanically ventilated patients . to obtain accurate information on distal bronchial microflora during acute exacerbation in patients with chronic bronchitis , we prospectively studied 54 such patients who had been receiving mechanical ventilation because of hypercapnic respiratory failure . fiberoptic bronchoscopy using a protected specimen brush ( psb ) was performed on each patient within the first 24 h after admission . cultures of protected brush specimens demonstrated no growth in 27 patients ( 50 % ) . with the exception of fever ( 38.2 + / - 0.8 versus 37.7 + / - 0.6 degrees c ; p less than 0.05 ) , the initial severity of the episode of exacerbation was similar in patients with and without infection . a total of 44 organisms were isolated in the 27 patients with positive cultures ; the predominant pathogens were hemophilus spp . and streptococcus spp . ( involved in 74 % of cases ) , but other organisms were isolated in 12 of 27 patients . mortality rates , duration of mechanical ventilation , and duration of hospitalization were not significantly different between patients with bronchial microflora treated with appropriate antimicrobial therapy ( n = 27 ) and patients without bronchial microflora either receiving empirical antibiotic therapy ( n = 18 ) or not ( n = 9 ) . these data suggest that distal bronchial infection due to the usual pathogens , as far as shown by protected specimen brush cultures , may not be the sole or even the predominant cause of acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis in patients requiring mechanical ventilation . 
the role of mucous glycoproteins in the rheologic properties of cystic fibrosis sputum . cystic fibrosis ( cf ) is characterized by excessive amounts of thick and tenacious mucous secretions that obstruct organ ducts and passages . in the respiratory tract this is associated with chronic infection resulting in the hypersecretion of purulent sputum , which the patient finds difficult to clear . we have studied the rheologic properties of purulent sputum from six patients with cf and five patients with chronic bronchitis to assess whether cf is associated with increased sputum viscoelasticity . in addition , we have isolated the major rheologic determinants , mucous glycoproteins , from cf and chronic bronchitis sputa and , using a magnetic microrheometer , investigated the possibility that the altered properties of mucus in cf are associated with abnormalities in these glycoproteins . creep compliance analysis indicated that the cf sputa possessed raised levels of both elasticity ( p less than 0.01 ) and viscosity ( p less than 0.01 ) . these increases in both rheologic parameters were found to be associated with increases in the dna content ( p less than 0.01 ) and dry weight ( p less than 0.05 ) . mucous glycoproteins were isolated from cf and chronic bronchitis sputum samples by gel filtration on sepharose cl4b , followed by concentration to form 8 % wt/wt gels . in the absence of other sputum components , no abnormality in the rheologic properties of cf mucin gels could be detected . however , when dna was added , the cf gels responded with increases in both elasticity and viscosity of as much as 30 % ( p less than 0.05 ) , an effect not observed in the chronic bronchitis gels . these results suggest that a subtle abnormality may exist in cf mucous glycoproteins and that this could have a role in the altered physical properties of mucous secretions in cf. 
effect of pentoxifylline on hemodynamics , alveolar fluid reabsorption , and pulmonary edema in a model of acute lung injury . we investigated the effect of pentoxifylline ( ptx ) on the development of pulmonary edema in a model of adult respiratory distress syndrome in rabbits . lung injury was induced by repeated saline lavages in adult rabbits weighing 2.5 to 3.5 kg . rabbits pretreated with ptx ( 20 mg/kg bolus followed by 20 mg/kg/h infusion ) developed significantly lower amounts of lung edema 4 h after saline lavage ( extravascular lung water to dry weight ratio [ w/d ] , 6.9 + / - 0.6 sd versus 8.9 + / - 0.5 in control animals ) . ptx produced a 25 % increase in cardiac output , but there were no differences between treated and untreated groups in calculated pulmonary vascular resistance or microvascular pressure . to determine whether ptx could have lowered pulmonary venous resistance and thus lowered effective microvascular pressure for fluid filtration , we directly measured pulmonary artery and left atrial pressures , and measured by micropuncture the pressure in 20 to 40 microns subpleural venules in four open-chested rabbits 3 to 4 h after lavage . venous resistance was low ( venous pressure drop 0.9 + / - 0.1 mm hg ) and was unchanged by ptx infusion . to determine if ptx decreased lung water by accelerating active alveolar fluid reabsorption , a single 60-ml aliquot of saline was instilled into the lungs of normal rabbits treated with saline or ptx . both groups had a similar decrease in lung water content 1 and 4 h later . our data indicate that ptx reduces edema formation in rabbits after saline lavage , not by lowering microvascular pressures for fluid filtration or by acceleration alveolar fluid reabsorption , but possibly by its anti-inflammatory effect on neutrophil function . 
persistent lower respiratory tract inflammation associated with interstitial lung disease in patients with tropical pulmonary eosinophilia following conventional treatment with diethylcarbamazine . tropical pulmonary eosinophilia ( tpe ) presents as an acute syndrome with dyspnea , fluffy infiltrates , and rounded opacities on the chest radiograph , reduced lung function , marked eosinophilia in the blood and lower respiratory tract , and high titers of specific ige and igg antifilarial antibodies . the standard therapy for tpe is a 3-wk course of diethylcarbamazine ( dec ) following which there is almost always a marked improvement in all parameters . however , clinical observations suggest that the disease can persist despite dec therapy and lead to chronic dyspnea with restrictive lung impairment . to evaluate the concept that dec therapy is not completely " curative " for tpe , but rather leaves most individuals with a mild , chronic form of tpe defined by persistent inflammation of the lower respiratory tract , we evaluated 23 individuals an average of 12 + / - 2 months following a standard 3-wk course of diethylcarbamazine for acute tpe . in the majority there were mild , persistent symptoms referrable to the lung , chest x-ray abnormalities , blood eosinophilia , and elevated serum ige and filarial specific igg . on the average , lung function was consistent with the presence of chronic , mild interstitial lung disease . when the inflammatory cells from the lower respiratory tract were examined , there was a persistent eosinophilic alveolitis ( tpe/post-dec 1769 + / - 376 eosinophils/microliters epithelial lining fluid ; normal subjects 256 + / - 38 , p less than 0.02 ) . evaluation of the lower respiratory tract inflammatory cells recovered from the tpe/post-dec-treated individuals demonstrated spontaneous release of exaggerated amounts of o2 - . and h2o2 compared to normal subjects ( p less than 0.05 , both comparisons ) . 
igg1-mediated acute pulmonary hypersensitivity response in the guinea pig . involvement of specific lipid mediators . we determined the pulmonary obstructive response to aerosolized antigen challenge , and its sensitivity to antagonists of specific lipid mediators , in igg , passively sensitized ( igg1-ps ) guinea pigs . antiovalbumin ( oa ) - igg1 was isolated by affinity chromatography from serum derived from actively immunized hartley guinea pigs . propranolol and pyrilamine pretreated , igg1-ps guinea pigs were challenged with aerosolized antigen and pulmonary obstruction was quantified by measurements of excised lung gas volume ( elgv ) . elgv increased between 150 and 1,035 % in a dose-proportional fashion with increasing antigen exposure ( 0.001 to 0.1 % nebulizer concentration ) . the leukotriene antagonists ici-204 ,219 and skf-104 ,353 exhibited dose-proportional inhibitions in antigen-induced elevations in elgv , inhibiting up to 65 and 87 % at the maximal concentrations examined . similarly , the platelet-activating factor ( paf ) antagonists web-2086 and l-659 ,989 inhibited antigen-induced elevations in elgv , inhibiting up to 94 and 59 % at the maximal concentrations examined . in contrast , the cyclooxygenase ( co ) inhibitor piroxicam significantly enhanced ( p less than 0.05 ) the oa-induced elevations in elgv . aerosolized paf challenge produced dose-proportional elevations in elgv that were significantly inhibited by the ltd , antagonist ici-204 ,219 ( 38 and 43 % inhibition ) and the co inhibitor piroxicam ( 62 and 48 % inhibition ) in sensitized and nonsensitized animals , respectively . we hypothesize that igg1-dependent airway obstruction is mediated in part by ltd , produced in response to paf generation . 
effects of inflammatory mediators on the responsiveness of isolated human airways to methacholine . several studies have suggested that in asthmatics the quantities of inflammatory mediators such as histamine , thromboxane a2 ( txa2 ) , prostaglandin d2 ( pgd2 ) , prostaglandin f2 alpha ( pgf2 alpha ) , and leukotriene c4 ( ltc4 ) that are present in the airway lumen are related to the degree of bronchial responsiveness to inhaled methacholine ( mch ) . therefore , we studied the effect of these mediators on the cholinergic responsiveness of isolated human airway segments . lung tissue collected at thoracotomy from 30 patients was studied . dose-response curves to mch were obtained from bronchial segments before , during , and after incubation with either a subthreshold or a threshold concentration of histamine ( 10 ( -10 ) or 10 ( -8 ) m ) , the stable txa2 analogue u46619 ( 10 ( -11 ) or 10 ( -9 ) m ) , pgd2 ( 5 x 10 ( -9 ) or 5 x 10 ( -7 ) m ) , pgf2 alpha ( 10 ( -9 ) or 10 ( -7 ) m ) , or ltc4 ( 10 ( -11 ) or 10 ( -9 ) m ) . with the exception of ltc4 , the presence of any of these mediators at either concentration increased the sensitivity to mch by a factor of 1.1 to 2 ( p less than 0.05 , anova ) . this increase did not depend on the dose of the mediator ( p greater than 0.05 , anova ) . these data indicate that mediator-induced muscle hypersensitivity can explain a small part of the leftward shift of the dose-response curve to inhaled mch as observed in asthma . 
colobronchial fistula : a rare complication of crohn 's colitis . a 29-yr-old white woman presented with chronic pneumonia in the left lower lobe and with left pleural effusion . she was known to have inflammatory bowel disease , but she was asymptomatic under maintenance treatment with 5-asa . she received numerous antibiotic regimens according to susceptibility testing of microorganisms cultured from sputum and bronchial lavage and on an empiric basis was also given antituberculosis treatment , but there was no clinical improvement or change in the chest radiographic findings . sputum was repeatedly examined and yielded , among other organisms , clostridium inocuum , enterobacter , klebsiella pneumoniae , proteus mirabilis , and staphylococcus aureus . on one microscopic examination of sputum , the presence of feculent material was suspected . a subsequent gastrografin enema revealed a cologastric and colobronchial fistula between the splenic flexture of the colon and the greater curve of the stomach and the bronchial system . segmental resection of the colon and resection of the lower lobe of the left lung were performed . histologic findings of the resected colon were consistent with crohn 's disease . after a long period of postoperative recovery , the patient returned to good general health and well-being . to our knowledge , a colobronchial fistula caused by crohn 's colitis has not been previously reported . 
ponderal index as a predictor of postoperative complications . four hundred sixty-eight patients undergoing elective surgery were prospectively followed for the development of postoperative complications . there was a trend toward increasing complication rate with a lower ponderal index . however , lower ponderal indices were associated with increasing rates of diabetes mellitus and hypertension . of these patients , forty cases with postoperative complications were matched to 40 control cases for sex , age , concomitant illness and operation performed . the cases of postoperative complications had a statistically significantly lower ponderal index than the controls ( 11.98 versus 12.43 ) . the increased risk of postoperative complications in those patients with a ponderal index of less than 11 was 3.36 , and less than 13 was 3.44 . surgeons who treated patients with lower ponderal indices need to have a high index of suspicion for the development of postoperative complications in these patients . 
gastroesophageal reflux and sclerotherapy strictures . the development of esophageal stricture is common following endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy ( evs ) . gastroesophageal reflux may be at least partly responsible . twelve randomly selected male patients underwent chronic evs for the management of bleeding esophageal varices . six patients developed strictures during or after evs , six did not . there were no significant differences between stricture and nonstricture patients during 24 hour esophageal ph monitoring . three of the six stricture patients and four of the six nonstricture patients had an abnormal amount of reflux . gastroesophageal reflux occurs frequently in patients undergoing evs , and it is not likely to play a major role in evs stricture formation . 
nonsurgical management of breast infections in nonlactating women . a word of caution . management options for infectious mastitis have traditionally been limited to surgical drainage . with the advent of percutaneous fine needle aspiration ( fna ) , nonoperative treatment may be an alternative , though criteria for use have not been defined . during a 30-month period , 22 women presented with breast infection . treatment was instituted based upon the clinical stage of infection . patients with cellulitis ( n = 8 ) were managed with diagnostic fna/antibiotics . those with focal abscess ( n = 10 ) underwent fna of the cavity/antibiotics . patients with multiloculated abscess ( n c = 3 ) underwent urgent surgical drainage . of the 19 patients initially treated nonoperatively , resolution occurred in nine ( 47 % ) ; stage of infection did not effect outcome . surgical drainage was required in the remainder ; two cancers were found . fna cytology in these ( and all ) patients was negative for malignancy . all underwent mammography during treatment . in 17 ( 77 % ) cancer was considered of low probability . the only patient with a mammogram highly suspicious for cancer had fat necrosis on biopsy . bacterial cultures were positive in 79 per cent , virtually all with gram ( + ) cocci . four patients harbored gram ( - ) organisms as well , two in concert with breast cancer . conclusions : 1 ) select breast infections can be successfully managed nonoperatively , 2 ) the accuracy of fna and mammography in the diagnosis of breast cancer may be impaired by coincident infection , 3 ) the finding of a gram ( - ) breast infection warrants abandonment of nonoperative management in favor of tissue confirmation of the disease process . 
starch peritonitis . a case report and clinicopathologic review . a case of starch peritonitis is presented with a review of the history of this continuing problem . the syndrome 's presentation , diagnosis , histopathology and treatment are discussed . the rarity of starch peritonitis today may be due to more attention to glove washing by surgeons , fewer impurities in the glove powder or lack of recognition of the syndrome . in order to prevent a resurgence of the starch peritonitis syndrome we must continue to emphasize the importance of washing gloves , maintain the quality control and purity of the powder used , and be cognizant of the signs and symptoms so that such cases may be managed nonoperatively . 
cecal diverticulitis presented as a cecal tumor . seven patients diagnosed as having acute appendicitis were operated on and a cecal wall mass due to cecal diverticulitis was found . in two patients the mass could not be separated from the cecal wall and right colectomy was performed . in five patients , in whom the mass could be separated from the cecum , conservative operations ( three diverticulectomies and two wedge resections ) were performed , thus avoiding needless , more extensive surgery . 
intra-abdominal abscesses in crohn 's disease . we reviewed 22 patients who had intra-abdominal abscesses secondary to crohn 's disease . a total of 29 abscesses were discovered . these included superficial and deep intraperitoneal as well as pelvic and retroperitoneal abscesses . diagnosis was aided by ultrasound and computer tomographic scanning . barium studies continue to play an important role in delineating the extent of bowel involvement and fistulization . treatment varied depending on the location and size of the abscess . the need for ultimate bowel resection was determined in the majority of cases by the presence of fistulization between the abscess cavity and the bowel . the terminal ileum or neoterminal ileum were almost always involved . 
an objective appraisal of the role of computed tomographic ( ct ) guided drainage of intra-abdominal abscesses . computed tomographic ( ct ) guided drainage is an important tool in the treatment of intra-abdominal abscess . its most important role is in the treatment of small , unilocular , well-placed abscesses . success rates in our experience diminish considerably in abscesses involving necrotic tumors or those infected with yeast . as is frequently characteristic of new technologic procedures , the initial evaluation of the success rate of the procedure is overly optimistic . the procedure carries a considerable complication rate ( 13 % ) and mortality rate ( 15 % ) . most importantly , success is usually evident early ; within the first 24 to 48 hours . after this length of time , careful evaluation to consider further treatment should be contemplated . 
association of acute colonic pseudo-obstruction ( ogilvie 's syndrome ) with herpes zoster . ogilvie 's syndrome , or acute pseudo-obstruction of the colon is characterized by massive distension of the colon in the absence of organic distal obstruction . the syndrome is associated with various unrelated and , most often , extra-abdominal causes . an association between ogilvie 's syndrome and herpes zoster has been reported only once , by ceccese et al . in 1985 . we present a second such case . this patient did not show evidence of any active illness other than the involvement of the t10 dermatome by herpes zoster . the patient 's symptoms of colonic obstruction subsided with resolution of the zosteriform rash . 
jejunal-rectal fistula as a complication of postoperative radiotherapy . we present the case of a patient with an unusual , complex enteric fistula with multiple tracts and associated abscesses . the fistula was a late complication of radiotherapy , administered three years earlier , after resection for carcinoma of the sigmoid colon . most of the small bowel was involved in the radiation-induced disease . a wide resection was performed successfully . this report reviews current literature on intra-abdominal postradiotherapy injuries , particularly intestinal fistulae . 
femoral arteriovenous fistula as a complication of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . a report of five cases . arteriovenous fistula ( avf ) associated with invasive and diagnostic angiographic procedures is rare . the incidence is increased with procedures such as percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) but is still quite low . we report five cases of avf within a 17-month period , representing 0.15 per cent of all cardiac catheterizations and 0.87 per cent of ptcas . all five patients presented with groin bruits . there were two associated pseudoaneurysms and one patient with deep vein thrombosis . all patients underwent uneventful division of the fistula . a thorough understanding of the anatomy of the femoral triangle is necessary in order to avoid this complication . that all fistulas were in the superficial or profunda femoris arteries emphasizes the importance of avoiding a low groin puncture . early angiography and surgical intervention are recommended for optimal results . 
lower extremity revascularization via the lateral plantar artery . lower extremity bypass grafts to the tibial and crural arteries are commonly employed to treat patients with atherosclerotic limb-threatening ischemia . although occasional series have mentioned bypasses to a plantar artery , few of these specifically examine the results of arterial reconstructions using these vessels . six patients underwent femoral to lateral plantar artery ( lpa ) bypass within a 19-month period for gangrene of the forefoot . there was one early graft failure and in the five completely autogenous reconstructions , graft patency and limb salvage had been achieved during a follow-up ranging from three to 22 months . the lpa is an acceptable site for anastomosis of lower extremity bypass grafts and the early results presented herein support its more liberal use when proximal sites are unavailable . 
management of premature removal of the percutaneous gastrostomy . percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy ( peg ) has become the preferred method of enteral access for nutritional support . with increased use of this modality , complications are encountered more frequently . premature withdrawal , inadvertent removal of the gastrostomy tube within the first seven days after insertion , before adherence of the gastric serosa to the parietal peritoneum , has been an indication for laparotomy . this report describes the treatment of premature withdrawal by immediate endoscopic replacement . over an 18-month period , 271 patients underwent insertion of a peg . five patients ( 1.8 % ) who inadvertently removed their gastrostomy tube within seven days of insertion were treated with immediate replacement using the retrograde string technique , avoiding laparotomy . all five pegs were successfully replaced through the same gastrostomy site . despite the presence of pneumoperitoneum , no patient developed peritonitis or other septic complications . premature gastrostomy tube withdrawal is safely managed by endoscopic replacement and observation . laparotomy is unnecessary and potentially meddlesome . 
risk for colon adenomas in patients with rectosigmoid hyperplastic polyps objective : to determine whether hyperplastic polyps found in the rectosigmoid area of the colon are associated with proximal adenomas , and to judge whether patients with distal hyperplastic polyps found during sigmoidoscopy might benefit from full colonoscopy . design : data on patients having colonoscopy collected prospectively according to a set protocol . the size and location of all polyps were noted , and all polyps were biopsied . setting : two university hospitals . patients : one thousand eight hundred and thirty-six consecutive patients referred for colonoscopy between 31 december 1987 and 31 august 1989 . results : of the 970 patients who met eligibility requirements , 274 ( 28.3 % ) had adenomas and 108 ( 11.1 % ) had hyperplastic polyps . the proportion of patients with distal hyperplastic polyps and proximal adenomas ( 31.9 % ) was similar to the proportion of those without distal hyperplastic polyps ( 23.0 % ) ( crude odds ratio , 1.57 ; 95 % ci , 0.77 to 3.06 ) . after adjusting for age and sex , the results were unchanged ( adjusted odds ratio , 1.53 ; ci , 0.82 to 2.88 ) . patients with distal adenomas , on the other hand , were three times more likely to have proximal adenomas than those without distal adenomas ( adjusted odds ratio , 3.42 ; ci , 1.99 to 5.88 ) . conclusions : distal hyperplastic polyps are not strong predictors of risk for proximal adenomas . based on the magnitude of the risk difference , we do not believe that finding a hyperplastic polyp during sigmoidoscopy justifies doing a full colonoscopy to search for proximal adenomas . because rectosigmoid adenomas are associated with proximal adenomas , however , small polyps seen during sigmoidoscopy should be biopsied to determine their type . colonoscopy should be reserved for patients who are proved to have adenomas . 
the internist in the management of head and neck cancer . the general internist has an important role in the management of head and neck squamous cell cancers . this heterogeneous group of cancers must be accurately diagnosed and staged before planning treatment . curability is directly related to stage at presentation and , because most patients with such cancers present to internists first , these physicians must be familiar with presenting symptoms and must be suspicious enough to refer patients with symptoms for appropriate evaluation . the work-up of patients with suspected unknown primary cancer presenting as adenopathy is detailed , and the physician is cautioned not to immediately proceed to open biopsy . as many as 10 % of such primary cancers remain undetected , although , with proper therapy , the 5-year survival rate for squamous cell cancer of the head and neck is 60 % . those patients cured of head and neck cancer still face significant psychosocial and medical problems , including hypothyroidism , xerostomia , and a 20 % rate of second primary cancer . head and neck cancer is highly preventable ; 75 % of cases are related to tobacco and alcohol use . smokeless tobacco has gained popularity among young americans and is associated with an increased incidence of head and neck cancer at several sites . education is crucial , and internists must seek strategies to stop patients from using tobacco products . other etiologic factors include industrial carcinogens , epstein-barr virus , and diet . retrospective serologic and dietary recall studies of vitamin a suggest an etiologic role of diet ; vitamin a analogs have been tested in preneoplastic lesions . to reduce mortality from head and neck cancers , the general internist must play a central role in prevention and early detection . 
emergence of recreational drug abuse as a major risk factor for stroke in young adults objective : to investigate the clinical and epidemiologic relations between recreational drug abuse and stroke in young persons . design : a case-control study based on medical records . setting : san francisco general hospital , a 400-bed municipal hospital . patients : consecutive sample of 214 patients aged 15 to 44 years , admitted between 1979 and 1988 with a diagnosis of ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke . an equal number of control patients admitted with diagnoses of status asthmaticus , acute appendicitis , or acute cholecystitis were matched to stroke patients by age , sex , and year of hospitalization . measurements and main results : seventy-three patients with stroke ( 34 % ) were drug abusers compared with 18 ( 8 % ) of the controls . in 47 patients with stroke , temporal proximity of drug administration ( n = 34 ) or infectious endocarditis ( n = 13 ) suggested a direct association between drug abuse and stroke . after controlling for other identifiable stroke risk factors , the estimated relative risk for stroke among drug abusers compared with that among non-drug abusers was 6.5 ( 95 % ci , 3.1 to 13.6 ) , and this increased to 49.4 ( ci , 6.4 to 379.0 ) for those patients whose symptoms began within 6 hours of drug administration . among patients less than 35 years of age , drug abuse was the most commonly identified potential predisposing condition ( 47 % ) , and it was the only condition with a significantly elevated relative risk for stroke ( 11.7 ; ci , 3.2 to 42.5 ) . further , a substantial rise in the proportion of drug-related strokes was observed in the last 3 years of the study ( 31 % in 1986 to 1988 , compared with 15 % in 1979 to 1985 , p = 0.008 ) . cocaine , especially recently , was the drug used most frequently in drug-related strokes . conclusion : in an urban population such as ours , recreational drug abuse appears to be a prominent and growing risk factor for strokes in young adults . 
ondansetron compared with high-dose metoclopramide in prophylaxis of acute and delayed cisplatin-induced nausea and vomiting . a multicenter , randomized , double-blind , crossover study . objective : to compare the efficacy and side effects of ondansetron with those of high-dose metoclopramide in treating acute and delayed cisplatin-induced nausea and vomiting . design : randomized , double-blind , crossover trial . setting : conducted at two university hospitals , a cancer institute , and six community hospitals . patients : of 125 patients , 95 were evaluable for the acute phase and 79 for the delayed phase . major reasons for not being evaluable were no second course ( 14 patients ) , protocol violation ( 5 patients ) , and change in cisplatin dose ( 3 patients ) for the acute phase , and rescue medication on day 1 ( 7 patients ) , protocol violation ( 3 patients ) , and inadequate data ( 4 patients ) for the delayed phase . interventions : all patients received cisplatin , 50 to 100 mg/m2 body surface area ( median , 75 mg/m2 ) ; none had previously received chemotherapy . thirty minutes before the cisplatin administration , ondansetron was given intravenously over 15 minutes , at a loading dose of 8 mg followed by a continuous infusion of 1 mg/h for 24 hours . metoclopramide was given at a loading dose of 3 mg/kg body weight , followed by a continuous infusion for 8 hours ( 4 mg/kg ) . for the delayed phase ( days 2 through 6 ) , the first oral dose was given as soon as the infusion was completed ; the oral dose consisted of either metoclopramide , 20 mg three times daily , or ondansetron , 8 mg three times daily for another 5 days . measurements and main results : in the acute phase , a major or complete response was seen in 72 % of the ondansetron-treated and 41 % of the metoclopramide-treated patients ( p less than 0.001 ) . nausea was significantly better controlled among the ondansetron-treated patients ( p = 0.04 ) . in the delayed phase , no statistically significant difference was seen between ondansetron - and metoclopramide-treated patients . nausea was significantly better controlled with metoclopramide ( p = 0.016 ) . conclusions : ondansetron is significantly more effective than metoclopramide in preventing acute nausea and vomiting . in the delayed phase , the results of both drugs were disappointing , although metoclopramide 's effect on delayed nausea was superior . patients preferred ondansetron . 
serum and tissue magnesium concentrations in patients with heart failure and serious ventricular arrhythmias . objective : to compare magnesium concentrations in serum and tissue from patients with heart failure . two groups of patients were compared , those with or without serious ventricular arrhythmias . design : consecutive enrollment . blinded laboratory analyses . setting : referral inpatient service of the cardiology division of a university hospital . patients : twenty-three patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and mild to moderately severe congestive heart failure ( new york heart association functional class ii to iv ) were divided into two groups : 9 patients with sustained ventricular tachycardias and 14 patients without serious ventricular arrhythmias ( control ) . interventions : medications for heart failure were withdrawn 12 hours or more before study . antiarrhythmic therapy was continued throughout the study . measurements and main results : the patients had skeletal muscle biopsies , myocardial biopsies , and blood sampling for the analysis of magnesium concentrations . no statistically significant differences in the mean magnesium concentrations in serum , circulating mononuclear cells , skeletal muscle , and myocardium were found when the 9 patients with ventricular arrhythmias were compared with the 14 control patients without serious ventricular arrhythmias . conclusions : in a general , ambulatory sample of patients with heart failure , magnesium depletion in serum and tissue does not appear to occur more commonly in patients with serious ventricular arrhythmias than in patients without serious ventricular arrhythmias . 
efficacy and toxicity of sodium stibogluconate for mucosal leishmaniasis . objective : to determine the efficacy and toxicity of the world health organization 's ( who ) recommended treatment for mucosal leishmaniasis : antimony , 20 mg/kg body weight per day for 28 days . design : open trial with 12-month follow-up . setting : inpatient unit of a regional referral hospital in a developing country . patients : twenty-nine consecutive eligible patients with culture-confirmed infection of the mucosa with leishmania species who were otherwise healthy . eight patients ( 28 % ) had mild to moderate disease ( confined to the nasal mucosa ) . twenty-one patients ( 72 % ) had severe disease ( including the oropharynx as well as the nasal mucosa ) . intervention : antimony , 20 mg/kg body weight intravenously every day for 28 days . patients received antimony in the form of sodium stibogluconate . measurements and main results : initial results of therapy were as follows : 63 of 72 lesions ( 88 % ) healed or markedly improved ; all lesions were culture-negative for parasites ; and 18 of 29 patients ( 62 % ) showed complete clinical and parasitologic cure of all lesions . by the 12-month follow-up examinations , however , 37 lesions had recurred , 8 new lesions had appeared , and only 8 patients ( 30 % ) showed clinical cure of all lesions . of the 8 patients with mild to moderate disease , 6 were cured compared with only 2 of the 21 patients with severe disease . side effects of this treatment regimen included t-wave inversion on electrocardiogram ( 4 patients ) , abnormal liver function tests ( 10 patients ) , and musculoskeletal pain ( 24 patients ) . no side effects occurred during week 1 of therapy . conclusions : the only recommended treatment for mucosal leishmaniasis is ineffective in patients with severe disease . the acceptable toxicity of the regimen suggests that longer courses of therapy with antimony , or that trials with other antileishmanial agents alone or combined with antimony be evaluated as initial therapy for this disease . 
delayed endolymphatic hydrops and its relationship to meniere 's disease . delayed endolymphatic hydrops ( eh ) can be characterized as having ipsilateral and contralateral types . they are similar in that both have early and late phases of otologic symptoms and that the early phase is a profound hearing loss in one ear . the late phases differ , however , in that the ipsilateral type develops the symptoms of eh ( episodic vertigo ) in the deaf ear and the contralateral type develops the symptoms of eh ( fluctuating hearing loss and/or episodic vertigo ) in the hearing ear . in more than half the cases of both types of delayed eh , the profound hearing losses in the early phase are simply discovered to be present in early childhood without a known time of onset . the temporal bones of two patients with contralateral delayed eh show pathologic changes in the deaf ears that are similar to those known to occur in mumps and measles labyrinthitis , whereas the pathologic changes in the hearing ears are similar to those known to occur in meniere 's disease . these observations support the proposition that meniere 's disease may occur as a delayed sequela of inner ear damage sustained during an attack of subclinical viral labyrinthitis occurring in childhood . 
tracheotomy in the first year of life . much has been written concerning complications of pediatric tracheotomies , but few studies have reviewed the complication rates of tracheotomies performed in the first 12 months of life . we reviewed the records of 60 patients who underwent tracheotomy in the first year of life between 1976 and 1988 . this study includes 30 full-term infants and 30 premature infants , 16 of whom were very low birth weight preterm infants ( less than or equal to 32 weeks ' gestation and less than 1,500 g birth weight ) . overall complication rates were 3 % intraoperative , 13 % early postoperative , and 38 % late postoperative . the early postoperative complication rate in preterm infants was nearly double that of full-term infants . the late postoperative complication rate of patients undergoing tracheotomy for airway obstruction was more than double that of patients requiring tracheotomy for pulmonary indications . duration of tracheotomy , however , was felt to be the most important factor in the development of a late postoperative complication . 
titration streptomycin therapy for bilateral meniere 's disease . follow-up report . initial reports of the use of parenteral streptomycin for bilateral meniere 's disease ( md ) have demonstrated success in reducing the vestibular symptoms and , in some patients , stabilizing hearing . the long-term follow-up ( mean , 5.1 years ) of 19 patients treated with intramuscular streptomycin for bilateral md is presented . the amount of streptomycin administered ( 5 to 50 g ) was determined by clinical symptoms and by serial testing of the reduction in the slow-phase velocity on electronystagmography . episodic vertigo was totally relieved in 12 patients and improved in severity and frequency in an additional 4 patients . permanent posttreatment dysequilibrium occurred in 47 % of the patients treated . the changes in hearing ( speech reception threshold ) were independent of the therapeutic effect of streptomycin on the vestibular system . the overall results suggest that the intramuscular titration of streptomycin should continue to be considered as one of the therapeutic options in patients with disabling vertigo due to bilateral md . 
stroke in pediatric acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . in a 4 1/2 - year period , 4 of 68 children in a longitudinal study of neurological complications of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection had clinical and/or neuroradiological evidence of stroke , yielding a clinical incidence of stroke in this population of 1.3 % per year . during this period , 32 subjects died , and permission for autopsy was granted in 18 of the patients , including 3 of 4 who had clinical evidence of stroke . the prevalence of cerebrovascular pathological features in our consecutive autopsy series was higher than the clinical incidence . at autopsy cerebrovascular disease was documented in 6 ( 24 % ) of 25 children with hiv infection , including all 3 children who had clinical evidence of stroke . four patients had intracerebral hemorrhages , 6 patients had nonhemorrhagic infarcts , and 3 had both . hemorrhage was catastrophic in 1 child and clinically silent in 3 children , all of whom had immune thrombocytopenia . one child had an arteriopathy that affected meningocerebral arteries . in another child , the arteries of the circle of willis were aneurysmally dilated . two children had coexisting cardiomyopathy and subacute necrotizing encephalomyelopathy with vascular proliferation . these results suggest that stroke should be considered when children with hiv infection develop focal neurological signs . 
myasthenic thymus and thymoma are selectively enriched in acetylcholine receptor-reactive t cells . we compared t-cell proliferative responses to acetylcholine receptor ( achr ) and to purified protein derivative ( ppd ) ( of tuberculin ) of hyperplastic thymus , thymoma , and blood cells from patients with myasthenia gravis ( mg ) . hyperplastic mg thymus cells gave significantly higher and more consistent responses to achr than parallel cultures of autologous blood cells , whereas responses to ppd showed an opposite trend . thus there was a preferential localization of achr-reactive t cells in the hyperplastic mg thymus . furthermore , there was a strong correlation between blood and thymus cell responses to ppd ( but not to achr ) , arguing that the hyperplastic mg thymus contains a sample of sensitized peripheral t cells . by contrast , both achr - and ppd-responsive t cells were almost undetectable in thymus from nonmyasthenic patients , which is evidently much less receptive to circulating t cells . cells from mg thymomas showed the highest stimulations by achr but did not consistently react to ppd . however , the uninvolved thymus adjacent to these thymomas behaved almost identically to the hyperplastic samples described above . our interpretation is that achr-specific t cells are initially sensitized in the mg thymoma but are selectively trapped in the hyperplastic thymus after being primed elsewhere . 
anoxic injury of mammalian central white matter : decreased susceptibility in myelin-deficient optic nerve . the rat optic nerve , a typical central nervous system white matter tract , rapidly loses excitability when it is exposed to anoxia and is irreversibly damaged by prolonged anoxia . neonatal optic nerve is extremely resistant to anoxia-induced dysfunction and injury ; the adult pattern of response to anoxia appears between 10 and 20 days postnatal , that is , during the period of oligodendroglial proliferation and myelination . to test the hypothesis that myelination , or associated events , confer anoxic susceptibility on developing white matter , we analyzed the effects of anoxia on the myelin-deficient ( md ) strain of rat . acutely isolated optic nerves from 19 - to 21-day-old md rats and control optic nerves from unaffected male littermates were maintained in vitro at 37 degrees c , and exposed to a standard 60-minute period of anoxia . the supramaximal compound action potential was recorded and amplitude of the compound action potential , expressed as % of amplitude before anoxic exposure , was determined . the compound action potential was nearly abolished within 3 to 6 minutes after onset of anoxia in control optic nerves , while optic nerves from md rats displayed a slower decrease in compound action potential amplitude during anoxia , with a distinct action potential present even after 60 minutes of anoxia . optic nerves from md rats showed significantly greater recovery of compound action potential ( 71 + / - 25 % ) than did control optic nerves ( 33 + / - 21 % ; p less than 0.02 ) after 60 minutes of anoxia . these findings support the hypothesis that myelination , or changes associated with it , may be important in the development of anoxic susceptibility in central white matter . 
polyneuropathy , ophthalmoplegia , leukoencephalopathy , and intestinal pseudo-obstruction : polip syndrome . we describe 5 individuals ( from three separate families ) with a progressive neurological disorder characterized by sensorimotor peripheral polyneuropathy , cranial neuropathies ( external ophthalmoplegia , deafness ) , and the syndrome of chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction . magnetic resonance imaging showed widespread abnormality of the cerebral and cerebellar white matter in the 2 patients studied . autopsy examination in 3 revealed widespread endoneurial fibrosis and demyelination in the peripheral nervous system , possibly secondary to axonal atrophy , and poorly defined changes in cerebral white matter ( leukoencephalopathy ) . the cranial nerves and spinal roots were less severely involved and the neurons in the brainstem and spinal cord were intact . the fatal gastrointestinal dysmotility was due to a severe visceral neuropathy . we suggest that these patients manifested a hereditary disorder with distinctive clinical , radiological , and neuropathological features , and propose the acronym polip to emphasize the distinctive tetrad of polyneuropathy , ophthalmoplegia , leukoencephalopathy , and intestinal pseudo-obstruction . 
major histocompatibility complex antigen expression in the affected tissues in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis . monoclonal antibody immunocytochemistry was used to examine spinal cord and muscle in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis for changes that would indicate ongoing or potential immune activity . increased expression of class i and ii major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) antigens was seen in the affected areas of spinal cord . new mhc expression was concentrated in phagocytes , particularly in degenerating white matter in which they were dispersed in the tissue and also packed around blood vessels . mhc antigen was not revealed in motor neurons or skeletal muscle fibers . an anti-pan-t-cell monoclonal revealed small numbers of t cells in degenerating white matter . similar changes have been seen in other neurodegenerative disorders . they suggest a potential for ( secondary ) cell-mediated activity in the affected areas rather than an ongoing mhc-restricted t-cell response . vessel-associated phagocytes may be a source of antigen to peripheral lymphoid tissue , stimulating production of the autoantibodies that have been described . 
drop attacks with meniere 's syndrome . we report the clinical features of 12 patients with drop attacks associated with meniere 's syndrome . each described a sensation of being pushed , thrown , or knocked to the ground or a sudden illusion of movement of the environment that led to a fall . these episodes were not accompanied by symptoms of their typical attacks of meniere 's syndrome . the drop attacks occurred early and late in the course of the disease ; they were the initial manifestation in 1 patient . in the majority the episodes spontaneously remitted , although meniere 's syndrome continued to progress . these attacks probably result from a sudden mechanical deformation of the otolithic membrane of the utricle or saccule due to pressure gradients within the inner ear . they are important to recognize because their prognosis is relatively benign compared to other causes of drop attacks . 
recurrent seizures in children with shigella-associated convulsions . fifty-five children with shigella-associated convulsions were followed prospectively to investigate their risk of subsequent febrile or nonfebrile seizures . the duration of the follow-up period was between 6.9 and 14.1 years ( 9.7 + / - 3.1 years ) . no case of nonfebrile seizures and only 2 cases ( 3 % ) of subsequent febrile seizures were observed during this period . we conclude that although febrile and shigella-associated convulsions share many clinical features , the natural history of these two conditions seems to be distinctly different . shigella-related convulsions are not associated with an increased incidence of subsequent febrile or nonfebrile convulsions . 
iatrogenic contamination of multidose vials in simulated use . a reassessment of current patient injection technique . an investigation of the potential spread of iatrogenic infections through contaminated multidose vials was performed . contamination of a multidose vial was hypothesized to occur after a single syringe is used to inject an infected patient with medication , and the same syringe subsequently is used to withdraw additional medication from the multidose vial . if the contaminated multidose vial is used for another patient , an iatrogenic infection may be spread . laboratory study of this injection technique found that viral plaque-forming units could be transmitted to a multidose vial in this manner . a survey of 100 fellows of the american academy of dermatology from the united states found that 24 % of the respondents used this potentially unsafe procedure . the potential for iatrogenic spread of the human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis b virus is described . recommendations to avoid patient infection are made . 
ichthyosis , mental retardation , and asymptomatic spasticity . a new neurocutaneous syndrome with normal fatty alcohol : nad + oxidoreductase activity . a number of inherited disorders of cornification have been related to abnormal lipid metabolism . in the recessively inherited sjogren-larsson syndrome , defined by the triad of ichthyosis , mental retardation , and spasticity , fatty alcohol : nad + oxidoreductase deficiency has recently been reported . these patients accumulate fatty alcohol in the plasma and cultured fibroblasts . a 19-year-old woman with ichthyosis , mental retardation , and mild spasticity is described in whom fatty alcohol metabolism was normal , as determined by plasma octadecanol level and fibroblast fatty alcohol : nad + oxidoreductase activity . ultrastructural studies on skin from the patient revealed morphologically abnormal epidermal lamellar bodies , not unlike those seen in neutral lipid storage disease with ichthyosis . we postulate that this patient has a novel neurocutaneous syndrome that may be secondary to abnormal lipid metabolism . 
area of lateral ventricles measured on cranial ultrasonography in preterm infants : association with outcome . the association between measurements of lateral ventricle area ( determined by serial ultrasound scans ) and outcome was studied in 70 preterm neonates of 33 weeks ' gestation or less . the study group was subdivided into four groups according to cranial ultrasonographic findings at 2 weeks postnatal age : group a ( n = 15 ) had isolated periventricular/intraventricular haemorrhage ; group b ( n = 20 ) had periventricular/intraventricular haemorrhage and dilated ventricles ; group c ( n = 24 ) had periventricular/intraventricular haemorrhage and periventricular leukomalacia with or without dilated ventricles ; and group d ( n = 11 ) had isolated periventricular leukomalacia . eighty seven preterm infants with no evidence of intracranial disease and good neurodevelopmental outcomes at 2 years formed the control group . a poor outcome was observed in infants in group b , c , and d , particularly in those who had persistent dilated ventricles at 6 weeks postnatal age and extensive periventricular leukomalacia . there was no difference in outcome between group a and controls . during the first six weeks of life ventricular area growth velocities were significantly higher in groups b , c , d , compared with normal controls and group a. we suggest that persistent ventricular dilatation at this early stage carries a bad prognosis , which is the result of atrophy of the brain . 
outcome after acute osteomyelitis in preterm infants . eight cases of skeletal infection in preterm infants were studied . all the infants were systemically unwell , with polymorpholeucocytosis . diagnosis was by blood culture , and any radiographic changes were apparent at the time of presentation . infection was often multifocal , with sites around the knee being most commonly affected . staphylococcus aureus was the pathogen isolated in six of the eight cases ; in these treatment with fusidic acid was effective and well tolerated , even at doses that were less than the recommended therapeutic minimum . even with prompt diagnosis and aggressive treatment orthopaedic sequelae are common . 
hiccups and breathing in human fetuses . serial recording in 45 low risk fetuses throughout the second and third trimesters showed that hiccups were the predominant diaphragmatic movement before 26 weeks ' gestational age and that there was a significant negative correlation with gestational age . there was a pronounced reduction between 24 and 26 weeks , which was the result of a decrease in the number of episodes of hiccups rather than a change in the duration of episodes . in contrast , fetal breathing was positively correlated with gestational age , the greatest increase in breathing occurring between 26 and 32 weeks ' gestation . this was the result of both an increase in the number and duration of episodes . from the time that rest-activity cycles of behaviour could be determined in recordings , both breathing and hiccups were dependent on behavioural state or cycle , occurring predominantly during active episodes . this association between quiet and active behaviour and breathing did not alter with increasing gestational age , and the variables in fetal behavioural state became increasingly closely linked . the importance of prolonged and repeated recording , and also the need to take account of other variables in fetal behaviour , before any sinister conclusions can be drawn about the absence of fetal breathing is emphasised . 
intraoperative blood pressure . what patterns identify patients at risk for postoperative complications ? while monitoring blood pressure is a routine part of intraoperative management , several methods have been proposed to characterize intraoperative hemodynamic patterns as predictors of postoperative complications . in this prospective study of a high-risk population of hypertensive and diabetic patients undergoing elective noncardiac surgery , one objective was to compare different approaches to the assessment of intraoperative hemodynamic patterns to identify those patterns most likely to be associated with postoperative complications . twenty-one per cent of the 254 patients sustained cardiac or renal complications after operation . patients with more than 1 hour of greater than or equal to 20-mmhg decreases in mean arterial pressure ( map ) or patients with less than 1 hour of greater than or equal to 20-mmhg decreases and more than 15 minutes of greater than or equal to 20-mmhg increases were at highest risk for postoperative complications . together these two patterns had a 46 % sensitivity rate and a 70 % specificity rate in predicting postoperative complications . using 20 % change in intraoperative map produced results nearly identical to 20-mmhg changes . when the duration of 20-mmhg changes was accounted for , changes of a greater magnitude ( e.g. , 40 mmhg ) were not significant independent predictors of complications . the use of the mean difference from preoperative map was misleading because patients who experienced both high and low maps tended to have nearly normal mean maps , but high complication rates . the absolute magnitude of intraoperative maps , regardless of the preoperative levels , also was evaluated . the overall mean intraoperative map was not a significant predictor of complications . specific intraoperative maps ( e.g. , less than 70 mmhg and more than 120 mmhg ) also were evaluated . while neither was a significant predictor , there was a trend for increased complications among patients whose maps decreased to less than 70 mmhg . intraoperative blood pressure should be analyzed in relation to the patient 's preoperative blood pressure . prolonged changes of more than 20 mmhg or 20 % in relation to preoperative levels were significantly related to complications . 
results of a multicenter trial comparing imipenem/cilastatin to tobramycin/clindamycin for intra-abdominal infections . we designed a multicenter study to compare tobramycin/clindamycin to imipenem/cilastatin for intra-abdominal infections . we included the acute physiology and chronic health evaluation ( apache ii ) index of severity and excluded patients without established infection . two hundred ninety patients were enrolled , of whom 162 were evaluable . using logistic regression to analyze both outcome at the abdominal site of infection and outcome as mortality , we found a significant correlation for both with apache ii score ( p less than 0.0001 for both ) . next we analyzed the residual effect of treatment assignment and found a significant improvement in outcome for imipenem/cilastatin-treated patients ( p = 0.043 ) . the differences in outcome were explained by a higher failure rate for patients with gram-negative organisms for tobramycin/clindamycin-treated patients ( p = 0.018 ) . this was reflected in a significantly higher incidence of fasciitis requiring reoperation and prosthetic fascial replacement . maximum peak tobramycin levels were analyzed for 63 tobramycin/clindamycin patients harboring gram-negative organisms . for failures the maximum peak was 6.4 + / - 1.9 micrograms/ml , and time to maximum peak was 4.6 + / - 5.2 days . for successes the maximum peak was 6.1 + / - 1.7 micrograms/ml , occurring at 3.8 + / - 2.6 days . this study supports inclusion of severity scoring in statistical analyses of outcome results and supports the notion that imipenem/cilastatin therapy improves outcome at the intra-abdominal site of infection as compared to a conventionally prescribed amino-glycoside-based regimen . 
positive results of combined therapy of surgery and intraperitoneal hyperthermic perfusion for far-advanced gastric cancer . to evaluate the clinical efficacy of intraperitoneal hyperthermic perfusion ( iphp ) for far-advanced gastric cancer , particularly with peritoneal seeding , we investigated the survival times of 59 patients who underwent distal subtotal gastrectomy , total gastrectomy , or total gastrectomy combined with concomitant resection of some of the remaining intra-abdominal organs . in all the 30 patients given iphp , no cancer cells were present posthyperthermically in the lavage from the douglas pouch . the 30 patients given iphp lived longer than the 29 patients not given iphp ( p = 0.001 ) , with a 1-year survival rate of 80.4 % in the former group compared to 34.2 % in the latter . with respect to a comparison of survival time of patients with peritoneal seeding , 7 patients not given iphp had a 6-month survival rate of 57.1 % and did not survive more than 9 months , whereas 20 patients given iphp had 1 - and 2-year survival rates of 78.7 % and 45.0 % , respectively ; here the difference was significant ( p = 0.001 ) . the iphp and control groups without peritoneal metastasis included 10 and 22 patients , respectively , and the 1-year survival rates are 85.4 % and 45.3 % , respectively . the survival rates of the former exceeded those of the latter , with p = 0.015 by the generalized wilcoxon test . thus this combined therapy offers the promise of extended survival for patients with far-advanced gastric cancer . 
parietal cell vagotomy and dilatation for peptic duodenal stricture . gastric outlet obstruction due to peptic duodenal stricture ( pyloric stenosis ) was treated with parietal cell vagotomy and dilatation of the stricture in 32 patients . follow-up is in the range of 5 years in 37.4 % of the patients , while 6 to 10 years follow-up is available in 62.4 % of the patients . at their last follow-up , 74.9 % of the patients were in either visick 1 or 2 clinical status . recurrence rates have been 3.1 % at 1 year , 9.3 % at 5 years , and 21.8 % after 6 to 10 years follow-up . there has been only one instance ( 3.1 % ) of restenosis . two patients required reoperation because of recurrence and one of them died . 
intrarectal ultrasonography in rectal cancer staging and in the evaluation of pelvic disease . clinical uses of intrarectal ultrasound . accurate preoperative staging of a rectal cancer patient may impact heavily on subsequent management . this study attempts to evaluate the accuracy of intrarectal ultrasonography ( irus ) in staging rectal cancers compared to clinical and pathologic examination . in addition the accuracy of irus was assessed in a group of patients with uncertain pelvic-perirectal disease after a negative physical examination . in a prospective manner , 52 cancer patients were staged with digital exam and irus . accuracy rates were 48 % and 83 % , respectively , compared to pathologic evaluation in assessing wall penetration , and irus identified positive lymph nodes in 12 of 17 cases . in patients with pelvic disease , irus corresponded with pathologic diagnosis in 15 of 17 cases and revealed new information in 6 patients . intrarectal ultrasonography appears to be the most accurate imaging technique for staging rectal cancers and demonstrates promise in the evaluation of perirectal-pelvic disease . 
does carotid restenosis predict an increased risk of late symptoms , stroke , or death ? the identification of carotid restenosis as an unexpected late complication of carotid endarterectomy has prompted concerns regarding its importance as a source of new cerebral symptoms , stroke , and death . to investigate these concerns , we analyzed a consecutive series of 507 patients undergoing 566 carotid endarterectomies , each documented as technically satisfactory . post-operative duplex doppler examination data at 3 days , 1 , 3 , 6 , 12 months , and annually thereafter in 484 arteries ( 85.5 % ) permitted classification of these arteries according to the most severe degree of postoperative stenosis : normal ( n = 306 ) ; 1 % to 19 % ( n = 89 ) ; 20 % to 50 % ( n = 40 ) ; more than 50 % ( n = 49 , including 8 occluded ) . the incidence of more than 50 % restenosis was 14.5 % in female and 7.7 % in male patients ( p = 0.003 ) . life table analyses to 10 years revealed a significantly greater life expectancy among those with restenosis ( p = 0.05 ) . stroke was also less likely in patients with restenosis , although this difference did not reach statistical significance . when survival and stroke were both endpoints , the likelihood of patients with more than 50 % restenosis remaining alive and stroke free was also greater than the less than 20 % stenotic group ( p = 0.03 ) . thus patients with carotid restenosis were less likely than patients with normal postoperative scans to have late symptoms , stroke , or early death . 
thoracoplasty : current application to the infected pleural space thoracoplasty , once commonly used in the management of cavitary pulmonary disease , continues to find application in the obliteration of infected pleural spaces . this study reports a series of 13 patients receiving thoracoplasty between 1976 and 1989 . five patients had chronic apical empyema spaces without prior resection of lung tissue . two of the empyemas were due to tuberculosis , two were due to atypical mycobacteria , and one was due to postpneumonic empyema . all patients had extensive destruction of upper lobe tissue . eight patients had undergone prior pulmonary resection ; 3 had persistent infected spaces in the early postoperative period , 3 had development of empyemas and bronchopleural fistulas late ( 5 to 19 years ) after pulmonary resection , and 2 had postpneumonectomy empyema . all patients had rigid cavity walls preventing space obliteration by rib removal alone and required concomitant resection of the thickened pleura and intercostal muscle tissues . bronchopleural fistulas were present in 11 patients and were closed with adjacent nonintercostal muscle . all patients survived and had successful obliteration of the infected spaces with acceptable physiological and cosmetic results . we conclude that thoracoplasty remains a useful procedure in the management of the infected pleural space in select patients . 
strategy for lymphadenectomy in lung cancer three centimeters or less in diameter we have surgically treated 221 patients with a primary lung cancer 3.0 cm or less in diameter . there were 8 patients with a tumor 1.0 cm or less in diameter ( group a ) , 84 with a tumor 1.1 to 2.0 cm in diameter ( group b ) , and 129 with a tumor 2.1 to 3.0 cm in diameter ( group c ) . the incidence of n0 , n1 , and n2 disease was 100 % , 0 % , and 0 % , respectively , for patients in group a ; 83 % , 5 % , and 12 % in group b ; and 62 % , 12 % , and 25 % in group c ( n0 versus n2 , p less than 0.01 ) . for the 63 patients with regional lymph node involvement , " skipping " metastasis was present in 28.6 % . the 5-year survival rate was 80 % for group a , 74 % for group b , and 51 % for group c ( group b versus group c , p less than 0.01 ) . of the 121 patients who underwent complete resection and were followed up for 5 years , 41 % had recurrence , 8 % with local recurrence and 33 % with distant metastasis . therefore , it is important to do as complete a resection as possible together with mediastinal lymphadenectomy . efforts to detect systemic spread should be made at the time of preoperative evaluation , even when the lung tumor is small . 
choreoathetosis after deep hypothermia without circulatory arrest in 8 of 758 patients undergoing an intracardiac operation under cardiopulmonary bypass and hypothermia , choreoathetosis developed 3 to 7 days postoperatively . before the onset of choreoathetosis , varying degrees of neurological dysfunction were noted . electroencephalography and neuroimaging failed to detect any responsible functional or structural changes . six patients are alive 1 to 3 years postoperatively , and their condition is improving . two patients died of aspiration or sepsis . all patients were grouped based on factors identified as being possibly causative : depth of hypothermia , cooling time , flow rate , and repeated hypothermia . the incidence of choreoathetosis was significantly different in group a ( rectal temperature greater than 25 degrees c ) compared with group b ( rectal temperature less than or equal to 25 degrees c ) ( 0/295 versus 8/463 ; p = 0.02 ) . based on cooling time , the incidence of choreoathetosis was significantly different in group b1 ( cooling time less than 1 hour ) compared with group b2 ( cooling time greater than or equal to 1 hour ) ( 1/220 versus 7/243 ; p = 0.05 ) . based on flow rate during cooling , group b2 was further divided into the low-flow group ( less than 1,500 ml.min-1 . m-2 ) and the high-flow group ( greater than or equal to 1,500 ml.min-1 . m-2 ) . although not significant , the incidence of choreoathetosis was higher in the high-flow group ( 6/153 versus 1/90 ; p = 0.22 ) . in group b patients having reoperation , the incidence of choreoathetosis was higher than in patients operated on for the first time ( 5/54 versus 3/409 ; p less than or equal to 0.0001 ) . 
prognostic determinants in extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for respiratory failure in newborns . extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ecmo ) is becoming an accepted therapeutic modality for newborn respiratory failure , but there is little information available regarding the prognostic determinants with this technique . one hundred thirty-five newborns treated with ecmo over a 4-year period were critically analyzed with regard to the influence that birth weight , gestational age , age at initiation of ecmo , best blood gases before ecmo , number of hours on ecmo , renal failure , intracerebral hemorrhage , and long-distance air transport had on survival . infants with meconium aspiration and those undergoing long-distance transfer showed significant differences in blood gases before ecmo , with survivors having more normal ph and carbon dioxide tension values . intracerebral hemorrhage and renal failure that developed during ecmo were grave prognostic signs , with few survivors in either group . these data show that ability to ventilate patients before ecmo , giving normal carbon dioxide tension and ph values , is an important prognostic sign in infants with meconium aspiration and undergoing long-distance transfer for ecmo , whereas renal failure and intracerebral hemorrhage are usually lethal complications of ecmo . each center performing ecmo should continually reevaluate this invasive technique and its results and complications . 
acquired benign esophagorespiratory fistula : report of 16 consecutive cases . sixteen cases of acquired benign esophagorespiratory fistula were treated in a 20-year period . a delay in diagnosis was usual , and most patients were first seen with a pulmonary infection already developed . contrast esophageal x-ray studies established the diagnosis in all patients . there were seven esophagotracheal and nine esophagobronchial fistulas . a fistula between the esophageal diverticulum and a bronchus considered to be of inflammatory origin developed in 7 patients . a fistula as the consequence of trauma developed in 9 patients , and these fistulas were situated at a higher level of the respiratory tree . all patients underwent surgical treatment ; in 12 it was definitive , and in 4 temporary gastrostomy was performed to improve nutrition before definite repair . the definitive repair consisted of eventual diverticulectomy , division of the fistula , and suture of both esophageal and respiratory defects . two patients required esophageal resection and later reconstruction with colon interposition . one patient died , creating an operative mortality of 8.3 % in the definitive-repair group . the remaining 11 patients had a gratifying long-term result . there were two deaths in the gastrostomy group due to an extremely poor condition of patients and debilitating pulmonary infection . early diagnosis of this rare condition is necessary if severe pulmonary complications are to be avoided . early direct repair gives excellent results . 
influence of prosthetic design on durability of the liotta porcine valve in the mitral position . from march 1979 to december 1984 , the liotta low-profile porcine bioprosthesis was employed for mitral valve replacement in 71 patients to avoid potential left ventricle-prosthesis mismatch occasionally observed with the standard , high-profile , hancock porcine xenograft . follow-up of 61 operative survivors showed at 10 years an actuarial survival of 67 % + / - 7 % , freedom from thromboemboli of 96 % + / - 2 % , freedom from structural deterioration of 63 % + / - 11 % and freedom from all liotta bioprosthesis-related complications of 53 % + / - 10 % . complications related to excessive protrusion of the stent into the left ventricular cavity were eliminated with the liotta bioprosthesis ; the peculiar stent configuration , however , was responsible for an increased rate of structural deterioration requiring reoperation in 10 patients ( 2.8 % + / - 0.9 % / patient-year ) at a mean interval of 76 + / - 18 months after mitral valve replacement ( range , 45 to 106 months ) . common findings in all explants were cusp prolapse , cusp tears , and commissural rupture related to various degrees of tissue calcification , constantly leading to severe prosthetic incompetence . as also shown experimentally , such structural changes have been attributed to increased systolic stresses on the closed cusps , favored by excessive reduction of the stent height . our experience shows that the liotta bioprosthesis used for mitral valve replacement does not provide any clear-cut advantage over standard porcine bioprostheses and that its long-term durability appears affected by the unique prosthetic design . 
clinical experience with the medtronic-hall valve prosthesis . medtronic-hall valves were implanted during 204 procedures performed between 1982 and 1988 . mean population age was 54.4 years ; 96 % of patients were in new york heart association functional class iii or greater . emergency operations constituted 16 % of the procedures . rheumatic heart disease was the single most common indication for valve replacement . in 18 % of patients , operation was performed to replace a previous prosthetic valve . the mean follow-up was 3.2 years . overall operative mortality was 10.3 % , the highest mortality being for double-valve replacements ( 24 % ) . valve-related mortality , by position , was 5.3 % for aortic valves , 6.0 % for mitral valves , and 4.0 % for multiple-valve replacements . actuarial 5-year freedom from events were : survival , 68 % ; thromboembolism , 90 % ; prosthetic valve endocarditis , 98 % ; paravalvular leak , 95 % ; and reoperation , 92 % . complications with the highest mortality were thromboembolism ( 36 % ) and endocarditis ( 33 % ) . the complication rates in this series are high but the patients were more severely ill than in other reports , and operative survivors experienced a considerable improvement in new york heart association functional class . 
aortic dissection with the entrance tear in transverse aorta : analysis of 12 autopsy patients . clinical and autopsy findings are described in 12 patients who had fatal aortic dissection with the entrance tear in the transverse aorta . the 12 patients represent 7 % of 182 autopsies of spontaneous aortic dissection studied by us . the ages of the 12 patients at death ranged from 37 to 87 years ( mean , 67 years ) . eight were men ; 8 had a history of systemic hypertension , and 10 had hearts of increased weight . diagnosis of aortic dissection was made during life in only 4 of the 12 patients . all 12 patients died of rupture of the false channel within 2 weeks of onset of signs or symptoms compatible with dissection . the direction of aortic dissection from the entrance tear was entirely retrograde in 4 patients , entirely anterograde in 4 patients , and in both directions in 4 patients . hemopericardium occurred in the first group , left hemothorax in the second group , and either in the last group . of the 8 patients in whom the ascending aorta was involved , the retrograde dissection in each extended to the aortic root , 6 had pulmonary adventitial hemorrhage , and 4 had involvement of the arch arteries by dissection . in the 4 patients with strictly anterograde dissection , none had dissection in the arch arteries . thus , tear in the transverse aorta causes a dissection that is usually fata , that often dissects retrogradely , and that may mimic dissection from a tear in ascending aorta . aortic dissection from a tear in transverse aorta requires early operative intervention . 
myocardial preservation using lidocaine blood cardioplegia . prevention of ventricular fibrillation after aortic unclamping using lidocaine hydrochloride as an additive to cold potassium blood cardioplegia was studied prospectively in 46 patients undergoing elective myocardial revascularization . patients were similar with respect to age , ventricular function , severity of coronary artery disease , cross-clamp time , completeness of revascularization , frequency of internal thoracic artery grafting , systemic temperature at the time of cross-clamp removal , and mean infusate volume and temperature . patients receiving lidocaine blood cardioplegia ( group 1 , 23 patients ) had a significant reduction in the incidence of ventricular fibrillation ( 22 % versus 74 % ; p less than 0.0005 ) and in the mean number of cardioversion attempts required to defibrillate the heart ( 0.5 + / - 1.3 versus 1.9 + / - 0.97 ; p less than 0.0005 ) after cross-clamp removal compared with controls ( group 2 , 23 patients ) . there were no differences between the two groups postoperatively with regard to cardiac enzyme release , hemodynamic measurements , or clinical outcome . patients receiving lidocaine blood cardioplegia tended to have a lower incidence of new postoperative atrial fibrillation ( 9 % versus 26 % ) . ventricular function was preserved equally in both groups . we conclude that lidocaine is a safe additive to potassium blood cardioplegia and significantly reduces the incidence of ventricular fibrillation after aortic unclamping . 
timing of operation for aortic regurgitation : relation to postoperative contractile state . with angiography and pressure measurement , we determined left ventricular volume , wall stress , and systolic performance in 30 patients with aortic regurgitation before and after successful aortic valve replacement . end-systolic wall stress was greatly elevated preoperatively and decreased to normal postoperatively . systolic pump performance assessed as ejection phase indexes was severely depressed preoperatively and improved to normal or near-normal postoperatively in most patients . the ratio of end-systolic wall stress to end-systolic volume index ( ess/esvi ) , an index of myocardial contractility , was greatly decreased before operation . postoperatively , the ratio increased in all patients , becoming normal in 12 of the 13 patients who had a preoperative ess/esvi of 2.9 or greater . however , 15 of 17 patients in whom the ess/esvi ratio was less than 2.9 still had subnormal ratios , which indicates the presence of irreversible contractile dysfunction . stepwise multivariate analysis showed that preoperative ess/esvi was the only independent discriminator of postoperative normalization of the contractile function as assessed by ess/esvi . after aortic valve replacement , myocardial contractile state does not return to normal in a considerable number of patients . it is important to offer aortic valve replacement for aortic regurgitation before the chance for a good functional result is lost . the ess/esvi ratio may be a useful index in determining the timing of operation in patients with aortic regurgitation . 
thoracoscopic treatment of spontaneous pneumothorax using carbon dioxide laser . in an effort to improve the success rate of the previously described thoracoscopic electrocautery ablation technique of spontaneous pneumothorax , the carbon dioxide laser was evaluated in 12 patients . the recurrent ( 5 patients ) or persistent ( 7 patients ) spontaneous pneumothoraces were caused by rupture of ( 1 ) blebs in 6 patients , ( 2 ) intrapulmonary apical type ii bullae in 3 patients , and ( 3 ) diffuse bullous emphysema , type iii , in 3 . the air leaks were successfully sealed in all but 1 patient with ruptured type ii bulla . surgical specimen from this single failure suggested that the entire inner lining of the bullae must be thermocoagulated . this technical modification led to successful outcome in 2 subsequent cases . with the use of carbon dioxide laser , it was possible to treat not only small blebs but all types of bullae causing spontaneous pneumothorax . laser thoracoscopy is effective and safe in treating spontaneous pneumothorax . 
pulmonary resection combined with cardiac operations . surgical management of patients with concomitant critical cardiac disease and resectable lung lesions is controversial . during a 7-year period ( 1982 to 1988 ) , 21 patients underwent combined cardiac and pulmonary operations . patients had cardiac symptoms only ; the lung lesions were found on preoperative chest roentgenograms . the pathological diagnosis was established in only 2 of the patients before operation . all underwent concurrent pulmonary resection during cardiac operations requiring extracorporeal circulation . the pulmonary operations included 17 wedge resections and four lobectomies . the final diagnoses in 8 patients with stage i non-small cell lung cancer included epidermoid carcinoma ( 4 ) , adenocarcinoma ( 3 ) , and bronchoalveolar carcinoma ( 1 ) . postoperatively , 1 patient required a permanent pacemaker and 1 patient died . the actuarial survival at 5 years for all patients who underwent combined procedures was 95 % . the 5-year survival for the 8 patients with lung cancer was 88 % compared with 100 % for those with benign pulmonary pathology ( p = 0.172 ) . this experience suggests that combining pulmonary resection with cardiac operations is safe and offers a favorable prognosis to a select group of patients . 
catastrophic thrombosis of porcine aortic bioprostheses . hemodynamically critical thrombotic stenosis of porcine bioprosthetic valves in the aortic position without thrombotic predisposition is rare . two patients at our institution abruptly manifested thrombotic stenosis of porcine bioprosthetic valves in the aortic position within 3 months of implantation without apparent predisposing factors . clinicians should consider this rare but catastrophic complication in the appropriate setting . 
circumflex artery ventricular fistula and pseudoaneurysm after mitral reoperation . prosthetic mitral valve reoperation complicated by atrioventricular groove pseudoaneurysm and circumflex ventricular fistula is presented . ligation of the circumflex artery during mitral valve replacement is implicated after review of a previous cardiac angiogram . 
acute hypercalcemic crisis after an open heart operation . acute hyperparathyroidism developed in a previously normocalcemic 64-year-old woman during the first week after a coronary operation . prolonged qt interval in the electrocardiogram and hypercalcemia were documented on the fourth postoperative day . neck exploration on the fifth postoperative day revealed a lower right parathyroid adenoma . parathyroidectomy resulted in rapid and dramatic improvement of the clinical picture and normalization of laboratory values . 
blood conservation in cardiac surgery . we reviewed current blood conservation techniques and their use in cardiac surgery . avoidance of aspirin preoperatively is an important blood conservation measure . patients scheduled for an elective operation should participate in autologous predonation programs . with careful monitoring , patients with major coronary artery disease can safely donate blood preoperatively . intraoperative processing of blood withdrawn before cardiopulmonary bypass provides autologous platelet-rich plasma for infusion after reversal of heparin sodium . blood collected from the field during operation and blood remaining in the oxygenator after bypass can also be processed to yield washed and concentrated red blood cells for reinfusion . randomized , prospective studies document that postoperative autotransfusion is both safe and effective in reducing homologous blood use . aprotinin reduces plasma protein activation and platelet damage during bypass . the integration of available blood conservation techniques into a comprehensive program combined with careful consideration of the indications for transfusion may allow more patients to avoid transfusion entirely . 
continuous epidural hydromorphone for postthoracotomy pain relief forty-four patients were treated with a continuous infusion of lumbar epidural hydromorphone ( 0.05 % ) after thoracic operations . postoperatively , visual analog pain scores were obtained . on postoperative day 1 and 2 , more than 90 % of the patients experienced either no pain ( visual analog pain scale = 0 ) or mild pain ( visual analog pain score = 1 to 3 ) at rest . the incidence of side effects ( hypoventilation , pruritis , and nausea ) was less than reported with other epidurally administered opioids . continuous infusion of lumbar epidural hydromorphone produced safe , predictable analgesia after thoracotomy . 
long-term results of operation for non-small cell lung cancer in the elderly . we surgically treated 185 patients with non-small cell lung cancer who were 70 years old or older . the operative mortality rate was 3 % , and the 5-year survival rate was 48 % . the mortality and prognosis were similar to those in younger patients . the number of elderly patients who smoked heavily or who had ventilatory defects was high , but the incidence of pneumonectomy was low . there were no differences based on age in regard to histological type , tnm classification , and curability . pulmonary complications occurred in 21 % of the elderly patients and were correlated with preoperative pulmonary function and smoking habits . when the elderly are to undergo elective pulmonary resection for lung cancer , the preoperative evaluation of pulmonary function should be thorough , and both preoperative and postoperative physical therapy should be given . if postoperative pulmonary function is predicted to be less than 0.8 l/m2 of vital capacity and 0.6 l/m2 of forced expiratory volume in 1 second , a limited resection or nonsurgical therapy should be considered . 
five-year results of coronary bypass grafting for patients older than 70 years : role of internal mammary artery . despite numerous references to the superiority of the internal mammary artery ( ima ) over the saphenous vein for myocardial revascularization , its role in the elderly is still in question . from january 1984 through december 1988 , 1,081 patients older than 70 years ( mean age , 74.9 years ) underwent bypass grafting , 354 ( 33 % ) receiving left ima grafts based on the surgeon 's preference and 727 ( 67 % ) receiving vein grafts only . selection bias resulted in a higher incidence of known risk factors ( such as cardiomegaly , arrhythmias , left ventricular failure , wall motion abnormalities , and preoperative combined new york heart association/canadian cardiovascular association functional class iv ) in patients in whom the ima was not used . however , unstable angina , acute myocardial infarction , left ventricular dysfunction , and left main disease were not contraindications for using ima grafts . the operative mortality rate was significantly lower in ima patients ( 2.8 % versus 7.6 % ) . the actuarial 5-year survival rate ( standard error ) was higher in patients with ima grafts , 89 % ( 3 % ) versus 78 % ( 2 % ) , and postoperative functional class improved to a greater extent in ima patients ( 87 % of patients were in classes i and ii ) . arrhythmias and myocardial infarction were significant causes of late death only in patients with vein grafts . when patients are older than 70 years , patient selection factors clearly play an important role in the differential results between patients in whom the ima is used and patients in whom vein grafts are used . as in younger patients , excellent results can be achieved in the elderly . 
morphological and histopathological aspects of aneurysms after patch aortoplasty for coarctation . repair of coarctation of the aorta by synthetic patch grafting has been complicated by late aneurysm formation . these aneurysms differ macroscopically from atherosclerotic thoracic aortic dilatations . specimens for microscopic examination were taken from 14 of 20 patients undergoing aneurysm resection . histological analysis of the specimens showed medionecrosis in 13 patients of the specimens showed medionecrosis in 13 patients ( 93 % ) , foreign body reaction in 11 patients ( 78 % ) , and intimal thickening in 3 patients ( 21 % ) . the three layers of the aortic wall could be identified in the aneurysms . on the basis of these results , we discuss the etiologic factors and pathogenetic mechanisms involved in the development of these aneurysms . 
medical management of acute traumatic rupture of the aorta . surgical reconstruction is the treatment for acute traumatic aortic rupture and should be accomplished immediately in most patients . in patients in whom concomitant injuries or the development of life-threatening complications preclude safe and successful aortic reconstruction , pharmacological intervention to reduce the risk of free aortic rupture may be considered . surgical reconstruction can then be more safely performed under controlled elective circumstances . 
surgical epicardial ablation of left ventricular pathway using sling exposure we report our experience with 43 consecutive patients with left free wall pathways operated on since december 1988 using a modified direct epicardial approach through a medial sternotomy , without the adjunct of normothermic cardiopulmonary bypass . the left atrioventricular sulcus is exposed by dislocating the heart cephalad and to the right using a sling made of a large sponge passed around the ventricle through the transverse sinus . while the arterial pressure is monitored , the heart is positioned to obtain adequate exposure without compromising the ventricular function . the left atrioventricular junction is exposed using a direct approach . the epicardium is incised along the ventricular edge and a plane of dissection is identified and opened using blunt dissection over the ventricular wall . the entire left atrioventricular junction can be exposed . after dissection , electrophysiological testing is repeated to assess accessory pathway conduction . epicardial cryoablation was used when accessory pathway conduction was not present ( 42 patients ) . transmural cryoablation was used under normothermic cardiopulmonary bypass when accessory pathway conduction persisted after dissection ( subendocardial pathway ) . in all , cardiopulmonary bypass was not used in 41 patients . there was one early relapse that required transmural cryoablation . there were no complications . 
management of aortobronchial fistula with graft replacement and omentopexy . massive hemoptysis due to a recurrent aortobronchial fistula after repair of a thoracic aortic aneurysm developed in a 64-year-old woman . the infected aortic tissue was resected and replaced with an in situ dacron graft covered by omentum . the patient is alive and well 15 months later . 
aortobronchial fistula after an aortic operation . a 71-year-old man with a postoperative aortobronchial fistula was successfully treated . the fistula occurred between the left lower lobe and the descending thoracic aorta , to which a distal anastomosis of a temporary bypass graft had been placed during thoracic aortic aneurysmectomy 3 years before . for saving patients with this complication , early surgical treatment during episodes of intermittent hemoptysis is important . the use of an omentum pedicle flap for the isolation of the suture line is a important adjunct . 
squamous carcinoma metastatic to the sternum . a 63-year-old man had a 10 x 16-cm sternal mass 18 months after a second aortocoronary bypass operation . the resected lesion was a metastatic tumor of squamous histology . no primary tumor was found . the diagnostic work-up and treatment options are presented . 
left recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis : an unusual presentation of histoplasmosis . a case of histoplasmosis seen as left recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis in a 49-year-old man is described . the patient had roentgenographic findings of a solitary , noncalcified left upper lobe mass and mediastinal adenopathy . tissue diagnosis of histoplasmosis was obtained using a thoracotomy , allowing institution of appropriate treatment . 
job 's syndrome : a rare cause of recurrent lung abscess in childhood . a clinical syndrome characterized by recurrent staphylococcal infection of the skin and respiratory tract from birth was described in 1966 and referred to as job 's syndrome . marked hyperimmunoglobulinemia e was later found to be associated with this syndrome . this article describes a case of job 's syndrome as a cause of recurrent lung abscess during childhood necessitating lung resection . 
empiric treatment of fungal infections in the neutropenic host . review of the literature and guidelines for use . persistent fever that is refractory to broad-spectrum antibacterials is common in neutropenic patients undergoing induction chemotherapy of acute leukemia . clinical experience suggests that many of these patients are infected with fungi . until recently , data supporting the role of empiric antifungal therapy in this setting were limited to small groups of patients or postmortem reports . evolving evidence in larger patient populations supports data from smaller series : febrile neutropenic patients who have failed to respond to a 4 - to 7-day course of broad-spectrum antibacterials may benefit from the early initiation of antifungal therapy . patients with fungal colonization or pulmonary infiltrates and adult patients who have not received previous fungal prophylaxis may especially benefit from the early use of antifungal drugs . amphotericin b has been the " gold standard " for empiric antifungal therapy , although the newer azoles may be useful in certain situations . 
acute renal failure in obstructive jaundice in cholangiocarcinoma . this study was aimed at defining the natural history of renal failure in obstructive jaundice due to cholangiocarcinoma , which is an important health problem in northeastern thailand . sixty-four patients among a total of 130 patients with obstructive jaundice secondary to cholangiocarcinoma who developed acute renal failure were studied retrospectively . analysis was made with respect to clinical features , laboratory findings , and outcome . the development of renal failure before surgery was observed in all patients . it was nonoliguric in 80 % and was associated with severe jaundice , gram-negative infection ( 42 % ) , hypotension ( 31 % ) , hypoproteinemia ( 30 % ) , hyponatremia ( 56 % ) , and hypokalemia ( 63 % ) . the mean duration of renal failure was 2 weeks . all patients underwent surgery for the relief of jaundice . seventy-seven percent of the patients survived and had recovery of renal function after the relief of jaundice . twenty-three percent of the patients died of infection . clinical data highlight the higher serum bilirubin levels and the frequent occurrence of hyponatremia , hypokalemia , and hypotension in renal failure . their possible roles in contributing to the development of renal failure are discussed . 
acute autonomic neuropathy . two cases and a clinical review . acute autonomic neuropathy is an uncommon syndrome , usually affecting healthy young people . presentation is often dramatic and initial misdiagnosis is common . we describe two young women with acute autonomic neuropathy who presented with gastrointestinal involvement heralding widespread dysautonomia and review 26 additional cases of acute autonomic neuropathy from the english language literature . acute autonomic neuropathy can be primarily cholinergic without orthostatic hypotension ( 26 % ) or pandysautonomic ( 74 % ) involving sympathetic adrenergic functions . onset has been temporally related to viral syndromes in 20 % of cases , with autonomic deficits usually evolving over 1 to 3 weeks . gastroparesis ( 69 % ) and syncope ( 12 % ) are frequent presenting complaints . spinal fluid protein levels are often ( 75 % ) elevated in pandysautonomic subtypes . prolonged and incomplete recovery is the rule ( 60 % ) , with persistent gastroparesis and orthostatic hypotension . other specific diseases that occasionally mimic acute autonomic neuropathy include botulism , porphyria , amyloidosis , and paracarcinomatous neuropathies . acute autonomic neuropathy shares several clinical features with acute idiopathic polyneuropathy ( guillain-barre syndrome ) , suggesting an immune-mediated pathogenesis . 
hyperammonemic encephalopathy in urinary diversion with urea-splitting urinary tract infection . we present two cases of hyperammonemic encephalopathy secondary to urea-splitting urinary tract infection with urinary diversion . one patient had a ureterosigmoidostomy , the other an ileal loop diversion . neither patient had significant underlying liver disease , but both had considerable muscle atrophy that may have predisposed them to develop hyperammonemia . medical therapy did not provide long-term control of symptoms . in both cases , hyperammonemic encephalopathy resolved after revision of their urinary diversions . the probable mechanism of the metabolic derangements produced by urea-splitting urinary tract infections is reviewed . we suggest that patients with urinary diversion who develop hyperammonemic encephalopathy secondary to a urea-splitting urinary tract infection be treated with surgical revision of the urinary system to improve drainage and decrease bowel contact time . 
recurrent meningitis in a patient with congenital deficiency of the c9 component of complement . first case of c9 deficiency in europe . we describe the first cases , to our knowledge , of c9 deficiency in europe that were detected in a swiss family , of which two members -- one with a complete deficiency and the other with approximately half-normal c9 levels -- experienced bacterial meningitis . the index patient , a 56-year-old white man with a history of purulent meningitis at the age of 23 years , presented with an acute meningococcal meningitis . no impairment of cellular immunity or immunoglobulin deficiency could be found . complement assays showed a complete deficiency of the c9 component , while the other individual component levels were normal and the hemolytic activity ( measured using the ch50 assay ) was only slightly reduced . a family study revealed complete c9 deficiency in the patient 's healthy brother and half-normal c9 concentrations in his sister , his son ( who also had experienced an episode of bacterial meningitis ) , and his niece , consistent with an inherited c9 deficiency . this first case of recurrent meningitis in a white patient with complete c9 deficiency suggests that this complement defect may also be a risk factor for bacterial , especially neisserial , infections . 
lovastatin . warfarin interaction . two patients who developed hypoprothrombinemia and bleeding due to lovastatin-warfarin drug interaction are described . because of the wider use of lovastatin and warfarin , heightened clinical awareness of this potentially serious interaction must be publicized . therefore , prothrombin time should be monitored diligently when warfarin is prescribed to patients receiving lovastatin . 
neuropsychological assessment of monozygotic twins discordant for schizophrenia . a comparison of monozygotic twins discordant for schizophrenia controls for genetic variance and reduces variance due to environmental circumstances , thus serving to highlight differences due to phenotypic-related variables . in this study , we assessed 16 such twin pairs on a wide range of neuropsychological tests . the affected twins tended to perform worse than their unaffected counterparts on most of the tests . deficits were especially severe on tests of vigilance , memory , and concept formation , suggesting that dysfunction is greatest in the frontotemporal cortex . while manifest symptoms were not highly associated with neuropsychological scores , global level of functioning was . to address the issue of genetic liability , we also compared the sample of discordant unaffected twins with a sample of seven pairs of normal monozygotic twins . no significant differences between the groups were found for any neuropsychological test . in fact , the results suggest that neuropsychological dysfunction is a consistent feature of schizophrenia and that it is related primarily to the clinical disease process and not to genetic or nonspecific environmental factors . 
bilateral phrenic nerve palsy associated with open-heart surgery . the incidence of phrenic nerve palsy after open-heart surgery has been estimated at 10 % , but it is usually unilateral and does not cause symptoms . bilateral phrenic nerve injury after coronary artery bypass surgery is a rare complication . this case report describes a patient who developed bilateral phrenic nerve palsies and required prolonged ventilatory support . denervation of both hemidiaphragms was documented by needle electromyography four weeks after bypass surgery . the patient required total ventilatory support for three months and partial ventilatory support for an additional three months . this case demonstrates the usefulness of electromyographic screening for documentation and prognostication after phrenic nerve injury . the cause of the lesion was unclear , but hypothermia and stretch were leading hypotheses . this patient developed the phrenic nerve palsies despite using a cardiac insulation pad . 
myotonic dystrophy : quantification of muscle weakness and myotonia and the effect of amitriptyline and exercise . the purpose of this study was to quantify the degree of muscle weakness and myotonia in 12 patients with myotonic dystrophy ( md ) , and to quantitatively determine the effects of a four - to six-month therapeutic trial of amitriptyline . patients had exercised with weights for one or more years . some had shown initial improvement in muscle strength , but had reached a plateau ; others had not improved when the study began . muscle weakness was quantified by comparing the five-second maximum voluntary contraction ( mvc ) in newtons ( n ) per kg ( body weight ) of 12 patients and 20 healthy subjects . knee extensor , elbow flexor , and first dorsal interosseous ( fdi ) muscles were compared . myotonia was quantified by measuring relaxation times ( rts ) at the end of the five-second mvc produced by fdi , as the time taken for the mvc to decrease by 50 % and 75 % ( referred to as 1/2 and 3/4rt ) . the results were as follows : ( 1 ) the mean muscle strength of each of the three muscles of the patients was significantly ( p less than .001 ) reduced compared with healthy subjects ; and ( 2 ) 1/2 and 3/4rt means of the patients ( vs healthy subjects ) were significantly prolonged ( p less than .01 ) . eight of the patients participated in a therapeutic trial of amitriptyline . therapeutic effects were quantified by measuring muscle strength , 1/2 and 3/4rt , and percent change in evoked muscle action potential ( map ) from the fdi muscle after a ten-second mvc , to determine change in excitability . mean muscle strength of fdi improved from .27 to .33 n/kg , ( p less than .05 ) . 
postoperative complications in patients with disabling psychiatric illnesses or intellectual handicaps . a case-controlled , retrospective analysis . the purpose of this study was to quantitate the operative risk and costs encountered in the surgical treatment of institutionalized patients . operative complications and duration of hospitalization for 200 institutionalized patients were compared with those in a control group of patients matched for age , sex , and type of operation drawn from the general hospital population . postoperative complications occurred in 53 ( 26.5 % ) of the patients in the study group compared with 15 ( 7.5 % ) of the patients in the control group . elective laparotomy was followed by a complication in 48 % of institutionalized patients compared with 11.6 % of matched controls . emergency celiotomy carried a 75 % complication rate in the study group . atelectasis and pneumonia accounted for 50 % of the postoperative complications and occurred with greatest frequency following intra-abdominal procedures . the median hospital stay for all institutionalized patients was 3 days more than for matched controls . a strategy for postoperative treatment is presented , with particular emphasis on prevention of pulmonary complications . 
aerobic and anaerobic bacteriology of wounds and cutaneous abscesses . the aerobic and anaerobic microbiologic characteristics of 584 wounds and 676 skin or soft-tissue abscesses were studied and correlated with the infection site . in wounds , aerobic or facultative bacteria only were present in 223 specimens ( 38 % ) , anaerobes only in 177 specimens ( 30 % ) , and mixed flora in 184 specimens ( 32 % ) . in total there were 1470 isolates , 558 aerobic and 912 anaerobic , an average of 2.5 isolates per wound ( 1.6 anaerobic and 0.9 aerobic isolates ) . in abscesses , aerobic or facultative bacteria were recovered in 177 specimens ( 26 % ) , anaerobes only in 243 specimens ( 36 % ) , and mixed flora in 256 specimens ( 38 % ) . in total there were 1702 isolates , 602 aerobic and 1100 anaerobic , an average of 2.5 isolates per abscess . the highest rates of anaerobes in wounds were in the inguinal , buttocks , and trunk areas and in abscesses in the perirectal , external genitalia , neck , and inguinal areas . the predominant aerobic organisms were staphylococcus aureus ( 363 isolates ) , group a streptococci ( 98 isolates ) , and escherichia coli ( 97 isolates ) . the predominant anaerobic organisms were bacteroides species ( 986 isolates ) , peptostreptococcus species ( 559 isolates ) , clostridium species ( 153 isolates ) , and fusobacterium species ( 109 isolates ) . the predominance of certain isolates in certain anatomical sites was correlated with their distribution in the normal flora adjacent to the infected site . these data highlight the polymicrobial nature of wounds and cutaneous abscesses . 
aortic occlusion and vascular isolation allowing avascular hepatic resection . occlusion of the supraceliac abdominal aorta and hepatic vascular isolation were employed in a series of 15 patients as a definitive method to allow avascular hepatic resection . the series was compared with an earlier group of patients treated conventionally . in the avascular hepatic resection group there was no mortality ; hypotension did not occur at the time of hepatic vascular isolation ; rapid , accurate excision of the hepatic lesions could be achieved in a bloodless field ; resection of midline lesions and those involving the great veins was possible ; and " segmentectomies , " or resections crossing segmental boundaries , could be performed where previously formal hepatic lobectomies were required . concomitantly , the greatest amount of uninvolved hepatic parenchyma remained in situ . there was increased ease of operative management , reduced blood loss , and reduced operating time ( mean , 2.8 hours ) . 
management of perineal wounds following abdominoperineal resection with inferior gluteal flaps . our experience treating perineal wounds secondary to abdominoperineal resection , either for inflammatory bowel disease or cancer , is presented . a total of 16 patients were treated either on a delayed basis or at the same time as the abdominoperineal resection . all wounds were closed using the inferior gluteal myocutaneous flap . fifteen of 16 patients have achieved healing , eight of whom had no complications . only minor revisions or local wound care were required in the remaining patients , with only one patient failing to heal . our results compare favorably with previous reports of treatment of this difficult problem . 
antibiotic pharmacokinetics in surgery pharmacokinetics is the study of variables that affect drug concentrations at the effector site . the descriptive terms peak concentration , elimination half-life , volume of distribution , and bioavailability are commonly used to express pharmacokinetic variability among drugs used in patient care . the pharmacokinetic characteristics of drugs are important for surgeons to understand because they represent differences that may assume clinical significance when selecting antibiotics for preoperative preventive indications . in addition , the changing hemodynamic pattern of the stressed and septic patient may result in changing pharmacokinetic patterns for an antibiotic , which , in turn , may require changes in the dosing regimen during the course of treatment . 
the influence of hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus on immediate and 3-month morbidity and mortality after acute stroke . fasting serum glucose , glycosylated hemoglobin , and fructosamine concentrations were determined in 304 consecutive subjects admitted with acute stroke , within 48 hours of ictus . based on the medical history and these results , subjects were divided into known diabetics , newly diagnosed diabetics , subjects with stress hyperglycemia , and nondiabetics . the type of stroke was classified as lacunar infarct , cerebral infarct , or intracerebral hemorrhage , based on clinical examination by a neurologist and computed tomographic brain scan and/or autopsy . immediate and 3-month outcomes were examined in relation to ( 1 ) fasting glucose , glycosylated hemoglobin , and fructosamine levels by stroke subtypes , and ( 2 ) glucose tolerance categories by stroke subtypes . a high fasting glucose level was associated with an increased mortality , but this was observed only among patients with intracerebral hemorrhage . patients with stress hyperglycemia , but not diabetics , had increased mortality . in spite of having similar glucose concentrations to those patients with stress hyperglycemia , diabetics did not have a worse outcome compared with nondiabetics . it is concluded that the association between glucose concentration and outcome is a reflection of stress relating to stroke severity , rather than a direct harmful effect of glucose on damaged neurons . 
circadian variation in onset of acute ischemic stroke . a circadian pattern for the onset of myocardial and cerebral infarction has been identified . to evaluate this phenomenon further , we analyzed prospectively collected data from 151 patients with acute ischemic stroke . the number of strokes per 6-hour period were the following : midnight to 6 am , 20 ( 13 % ) ; 6 am to noon , 86 ( 57 % ) ; noon to 6 pm , 21 ( 14 % ) ; and 6 pm to midnight , 24 ( 16 % ) . this pattern was not affected by previous use of aspirin . the most frequent time of onset was 6 am to noon for all subgroups of ischemic stroke : small artery , 71 % ; cardioembolic , 62 % ; large artery atherothrombotic , 57 % ; large artery atheroembolic , 46 % ; and " other " or unknown cause , 40 % . we also investigated the time between awakening and stroke onset in 145 patients and found that 24 % of ischemic strokes occurred within the first hour after awakening . our data demonstrate that an early morning peak exists for all subtypes of stroke . our data also suggest that the most critical period is the first hour after awakening . 
nontraumatic coma . glasgow coma score and coma etiology as predictors of 2-week outcome . in 1987 and 1988 , we carried out a prospective study of patients older than 10 years with nontraumatic coma in the intensive care units of columbia-presbyterian medical center , new york , ny . of 188 patients with glasgow coma scale ( gcs ) determinations within 72 hours , 61 % were dead or in persistent coma by 2 weeks from onset . age , sex , and ethnicity did not influence outcome . the 2-week outcome for patients with initial gcs of 3 to 5 was 14.8 % awake ; 85.2 % were dead or in persistent coma . for the gcs 6 to 8 group , 53.1 % were awake and 46.9 % were dead or in persistent coma . hypoxic or ischemic coma had the worst 2-week outcome ( 79 % dead or comatose ) ; coma caused by metabolic disease or sepsis ( 68 % ) , focal cerebral lesions ( 66 % ) , and general cerebral diseases ( 55 % ) were intermediate , while drug-induced coma had a favorable outcome ( 27 % dead or comatose ) . the independent predictors of 2-week outcome were the first gcs and drug-induced coma . the predicted probability of waking at 2 weeks was eight times better for drug-induced coma than other causes when gcs was held constant . patients with an initial gcs score of 6 to 8 were seven times more likely to waken than those with a score of 3 to 5 . the motor subscore alone was a significant independent predictor of 2-week outcome . modification of coma score to include etiology may give more accurate predictions of 2-week outcome after nontraumatic coma . 
long-term effect of dopaminergic drugs in restless legs . a 2-year follow-up . thirty patients with restless legs syndrome , who initially had all responded well to treatment with levodopa and benserazide , were studied as to the long-term effect of the drugs ( at least 2 years ) . during the 2-year period , two patients were switched from levodopa to bromocriptine . two patients no longer needed levodopa ; one of them had developed paraplegia and in the other the symptoms of restless legs syndrome had disappeared completely . the remaining 26 patients continued to use levodopa . eight patients maintained the original dose , nine had to use an increased dose , and nine found a decreased dose to be sufficient . the only side effect was transient nausea reported by two of the 30 patients . the study showed that the relief of symptoms of restless legs syndrome by dopaminergic drugs does not wear off with the passage of time , that side effects are minimal even with long-term use , and that the dose needed to obtain relief may increase as well as decrease . 
hemifacial spasm in rochester and olmsted county , minnesota , 1960 to 1984 . the incidence of hemifacial spasm in residents of olmsted county , minnesota , was studied by reviewing the medical records of patients residing in the community between 1960 and 1984 . the average annual incidence rate was 0.74 per 100,000 in men and 0.81 per 100,000 in women , age-adjusted to the 1970 us white population . the average prevalence rate was 7.4 per 100,000 population in men and 14.5 per 100,000 in women . the incidence and prevalence rates were highest in those from 40 to 79 years of age . 
the marinesco-sjogren syndrome examined by computed tomography , magnetic resonance , and 18f-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose and positron emission tomography . the marinesco-sjogren syndrome is an autosomal recessive degenerative disorder characterized by congenital cataracts , cerebellar ataxia , spasticity , mental deficiency , and skeletal abnormalities . we studied two adult siblings with marinesco-sjogren syndrome using anatomic and metabolic brain imaging techniques to characterize the pattern and nature of abnormalities in the brain . computed tomographic and magnetic resonance imaging showed diffuse brain atrophy of mild to moderate degree , involving primarily the white matter of the cerebrum , cerebellum , brain stem , and cervical spinal cord . the pattern of atrophy resembled that seen in diffuse leukoencephalopathies . measurements of local cerebral glucose metabolic rates with positron emission tomography revealed no statistically significant differences from normal control subjects in most regions , but metabolic rate was decreased in the thalamus in one patient . the findings support a diffuse white matter disorder in marinesco-sjogren syndrome . 
background review and current concepts of reperfusion injury . we define the concept of reperfusion injury , and we present a background chronology of experimental work supporting and questioning this concept . we identify several new influences , such as current clinical interest in thrombolytic therapy for acute ischemia of heart and brain and the growing recognition of endothelium as a regulator of homeostasis . we propose that these influences will encourage a reexamination of reperfusion injury as a factor in the ultimate outcome of tissue exposed to reversible ischemia . we briefly discuss the major mechanisms presently implicated in reperfusion injury -- loss of calcium homeostasis , free radical generation , leukocyte-mediated injury , and acute hypercholesterolemia . 
aplasia cutis congenita and arteriovenous fistula . case report and review . we describe a child with congenital aplasia cutis congenita of the scalp and an occult giant posterior fossa arteriovenous fistula . previous case reports of central nervous system malformations associated with aplasia cutis congenita are reviewed . the exact incidence of such malformations is unknown . all patients with aplasia cutis congenita should undergo a neurologic evaluation , and their families should be examined for similar lesions . early central nervous system imaging and other workup may be required , especially if plastic surgery in the head region is being planned . 
diffusing capacity of the lung and nifedipine in systemic sclerosis . lung involvement in systemic sclerosis may be due in part to a functional abnormality of the pulmonary vasculature . to investigate the possible role of a pulmonary vasospastic process in this disorder , 21 non-smoking patients who had no evidence of cardiac disease or pulmonary hypertension were evaluated with pulmonary function tests prior to administration of nifedipine , 30 minutes after a single oral dose of nifedipine ( 20 mg ) , and after 4 weeks of treatment with nifedipine ( 10 mg 3 times daily ) . treatment with nifedipine did not significantly change any of the pulmonary function values , except for the carbon monoxide diffusing capacity ( dlco ) . the linear trend between the individual dlco values at baseline and their changes immediately following the initial 20-mg dose of nifedipine ( r = -0.603 , p = 0.02 ) and after 4 weeks of treatment ( r = -0.636 , p = 0.01 ) showed that the lower the dlco value at baseline , the greater the improvement caused by nifedipine . these findings support the hypothesis of a potentially reversible pulmonary vasospasm in systemic sclerosis and suggest that nifedipine may be useful in the treatment of lung disease in these patients ; however , further studies are needed . 
outbreak of spontaneous staphylococcal arthritis and osteitis in mice . staphylococcus aureus is the most common bacterial species found in association with nongonococcal bacterial arthritis in humans . we present here the first description of spontaneous bacterial arthritis and osteitis in mice . clinically , the most obvious findings were swelling and/or ankylosis of hindpaws and nodose changes of the tail . the prevalence of arthritis and osteitis ranged from 0 % to greater than 50 % of the mice studied , depending on the mouse strain . the most prominent histopathologic feature of the arthritis was hypertrophy of the synovial tissue and destruction of cartilage and underlying bone . most of the s aureus-infected mice displayed an identical phage type , which was also the only s aureus phage type found in skin isolates from clinically healthy mice . however , a few s aureus isolates were not typeable , indicating that an additional strain ( s ) might cause bacterial arthritis in mice . 
rett syndrome : cerebellar pathology . the cerebellar pathology at autopsy of 5 patients with rett syndrome is described . the patients ranged in age from 7-30 years . all had markedly reduced brain weights with proportionately small cerebella . microscopic examination revealed loss of purkinje cells , atrophy , astrocytic gliosis of the molecular and granular cell layers , and gliosis and loss of myelin in the white matter . cortical atrophy occurred focally along the folia and was often more marked in the tips of the folia . the 2 oldest patients had been treated with phenytoin which may have contributed to the morphologic changes . atrophy and gliosis increased with age or in patients without phenytoin treatment ; the youngest patient demonstrated only minor microscopic changes . in addition to the generalized alterations , 1 patient had several adjacent folia with severe atrophy . the results indicate that cerebellar changes in rett syndrome consist of general hypoplasia with the addition of atrophy beginning in childhood and progressing over many years . 
recurrent lateral rectus palsy in childhood . five patients with recurrent , lateral rectus palsy in childhood , examined at the university of iowa hospitals over a period of 22 years , are reported . during the same period , 131 abducens nerve palsy patients , younger than 18 years of age , were evaluated . eighteen similar patients , most single case reports , are reviewed from the literature . all reported patients , including our own , shared the following features : spontaneous recovery within 6 months in the majority of patients , ipsilateral recurrence , and painless palsy . there is female and left-sided preponderance . etiology is undetermined . hypotheses include viral etiology , neurovascular compression by aberrant artery , and migraine . 
west syndrome associated with hyperlexia . two patients are reported with west syndrome associated with hyperlexia . they had peculiar linguistic and psychosocial development and autistic behavior , yet began to read japanese and chinese characters , numbers , roman alphabet letters , and trademark letters at 3 years of age . neuropsychologic , electroencephalographic , and radiologic studies were performed at 11 years of age in patient 1 and at 10 years of age in patient 2 . although they were able to read fluently with correct intonation , their comprehension was significantly impaired . the neuropsychologic evaluation of both patients demonstrated selective , excellent ability in auditory memory in contrast to impairment of associational abilities , visual retention , and visual constructional abilities . these findings suggest that the functions in the nondominant hemisphere were also impaired . although children with west syndrome frequently have associated mental retardation , patients with west syndrome associated with hyperlexia have never been reported . a neuropsychologic investigation of epileptic children with mental retardation is necessary for the detection of hyperlexia . 
flow cytometric dna content of adenoid cystic carcinoma of submandibular gland . correlation of histologic features and prognosis . flow cytometric analysis of nuclear dna content was performed in 26 adenoid cystic carcinomas of the submandibular gland using archived , paraffin-embedded tissues . the dna content was compared with multiple histologic parameters and clinical course . ten carcinomas ( 38 % ) were aneuploid and 16 ( 62 % ) diploid . aneuploid carcinomas demonstrated a higher frequency of solid cytoarchitecture , lymph node metastases , and advanced clinical stage , as compared with diploid carcinomas . other histologic features predicting aggressive clinical behavior also correlated with abnormal dna content and included invasion of nerves larger than 0.25 mm and intravascular extension . our data suggest that dna content analysis can be an effective objective parameter in the clinicopathologic assessment of adenoid cystic carcinoma . 
the in vivo biologic effect of interleukin 2 and interferon alfa on natural immunity in patients with head and neck cancer . given the association of deficient natural immunity with the risk of metastatic disease , the ability to activate natural killer cell function may have a therapeutic significance . the effect of continuous infusion of interleukin 2 plus intramuscular interferon alfa on natural immune status was , therefore , analyzed in eight patients with head and neck cancer . also evaluated was the effect of interleukin 2-interferon alfa therapy on lymphokine-activated killer cell activity as well as total lymphocyte count , percent of lymphocyte subsets , and levels of both circulating immune complexes and antibody classes . both the percent and absolute number of natural killer cells ( ie , cd56 + cd3 - lymphocytes ) within peripheral blood as well as natural killer cell activity against k562 targets increased significantly with treatment . the remaining immune parameters were not significantly altered . the demonstrated capacity to modulate natural immune function supports the potential use of interleukin 2-containing regimens as a preventive measure against metastatic disease in patients with head and neck cancer . 
a patient-oriented approach to perilymph fistula . the subject of perilymph fistula is controversial in part because the preoperative diagnosis of perilymph fistula is difficult . patients suffering auditory and vestibular symptoms secondary to perilymph fistula , therefore , present a dilemma to the practicing physician . in some instances , patients with auditory and vestibular symptoms in the absence of perilymph fistula will be subjected to middle ear exploration without benefit , while in other instances patients with auditory and vestibular symptoms secondary to perilymph fistula will be denied surgical treatment . auditory and vestibular symptoms are a quality of life issue . therefore , in an effort to provide care of the highest quality the patient must be actively involved in the decision process . such involvement can be meaningful only after the patient is carefully counseled as to the pros and cons of surgery , as well as the alternatives . a prognostic paradigm based on the personal experience of one of us ( w.l.m. ) with perilymph fistula patients is described and is used in patient consultation in an effort to facilitate decision making . 
audiometric and subjective assessment of hearing handicap . this study compares self-perceived assessment of hearing handicap with audiometrically derived measures of hearing handicap in a sample of elderly persons . subjects were evaluated by traditional audiometric tests , the speech perception in noise test , and the hearing handicap inventory for the elderly , a self-assessment questionnaire . hearing handicap was also calculated by the audiometrically derived american academy of otolaryngology ( 1979 ) method . our results are consistent with other studies that indicate a low correspondence between audiometric measures of hearing handicap and self-assessment of hearing handicap . furthermore , if the hearing handicap inventory for the elderly is considered the true measure of hearing handicap , our data indicate that the american academy of otolaryngology method tends to overestimate handicap among persons with no self-perceived hearing handicap and underestimates handicap among persons with significant self-perceived hearing handicap . 
epidemiology of pelvic inflammatory disease in parous women with special reference to intrauterine device use . up to the end of 1989 , 206 parous women in the oxford family planning association contraceptive study had been referred to hospital with a first episode of pelvic inflammatory disease . of these , 65 suffered from definite disease described as acute , 81 from definite disease not described as acute and 60 from ' other disease ' . considering all forms of disease together , referral was less common in those aged 25-29 and in those aged 45 or more than in those aged 30-44 . referral was more common in those of low social class , in those who smoked and in those who married young . all these factors were taken into account in analyses considering the effects of contraceptive methods . in these analyses , women currently using the contraceptive pill , the diaphragm , the sheath , female sterilization or an intrauterine device ( iucd ) were compared with those currently using other methods or no method of contraception . iucd ex-users were , however , placed in a separate category , irrespective of their current method of contraception . the relative risks obtained in these analyses , with 95 % ci , were as follows : contraceptive pill 0.5 ( 0.2-0 .9 ) , diaphragm 0.6 ( 0.3-1 .2 ) , sheath 1.2 ( 0.6-2 .4 ) , female sterilization 0.7 ( 0.3-1 .5 ) , non-medicated iucd 3.3 ( 2.3-5 .0 ) , medicated iucd 1.8 ( 0.8-4 .0 ) , iucd ex-users 1.3 ( 0.7-2 .3 ) . these data suggest that oral contraceptives , the diaphragm and female sterilization protect against pelvic inflammatory disease and that iucds increase the risk . medicated devices , however , appear to carry only about half the risk of non-medicated devices , and the elevation of risks in iucd ex-users appears to be small . special analyses examined the risk associated with use of a dalkon shield . among women currently using an iucd ( of any kind ) , those who had used a dalkon shield ( at any time ) had nearly five times as great a risk of hospital referral for pelvic inflammatory disease as those who had never used a dalkon shield ( relative risk 4.7 , 95 % ci 2.1-9 .0 ) . 
middle cerebral artery flow velocity waveforms in fetal hypoxaemia . in 81 small-for-gestational age fetuses ( sga ) colour flow imaging was used to identify the fetal middle cerebral artery for subsequent pulsed doppler studies . impedence to flow ( pulsatility index ; pi ) was significantly lower , and mean blood velocity was significantly higher , than the respective reference ranges with gestation . fetal blood sampling by cordocentesis was performed in all sga fetuses and a significant quadratic relation was found between fetal hypoxaemia and the degree of reduction in the pi of fvws from the fetal middle cerebral artery . thus , maximum reduction in pi is reached when the fetal po2 is 2-4 sd below the normal mean for gestation . when the oxygen deficit is greater there is a tendency for the pi to rise , and this presumably reflects the development of brain oedema . 
the management of primary fallopian tube carcinoma . the outcome of 30 patients with primary fallopian tube carcinoma is described . treatment varied over the 22 year period of accrual and included combinations of surgery , radiotherapy and chemotherapy . there was an apparent increase in stage at treatment with time which was probably related to more precise staging at laparotomy and the greater use of computerized tomography . the median survival for all patients was 28 months and the 5-year survival was 18 % . ten patients received postoperative chemotherapy for residual disease with an overall response rate of 80 % and median progression-free and overall survival times of 14 and 21 months respectively . the pattern of relapse was similar to that seen in ovarian carcinoma , with all but one patient having the pelvis or abdomen as the main site of recurrence . primary fallopian tube carcinoma has a response to treatment and a tumour biology similar to that of ovarian carcinoma . it is recommended that the management of this uncommon malignancy should continue to be along the lines of ovarian carcinoma , with initial treatment by cytoreductive surgery followed by chemotherapy or radiotherapy for residual disease . 
vitamin b6 in the treatment of the premenstrual syndrome -- a review [ published erratum appears in br j obstet gynaecol 1991 mar ; 98 ( 3 ) :329 -30 ] a search of the literature yielded 12 controlled trials on vitamin b6 in the treatment of the premenstrual syndrome . these are discussed with emphasis on methodological aspects . a major drawback of the trials is the limited number of patients included . the existing evidence of positive effects of vitamin b6 is weak , and some well-designed trials with positive results would be needed to change this view . 
maternal genomic neutrophil fcriii deficiency leading to neonatal isoimmune neutropenia . the healthy mother of a child with transient immune neutropenia was found to be " na-null . " the mother 's neutrophils did not react with anti-na1 and anti-na2 antibodies ( polyclonal human alloantibodies and mouse monoclonal antibodies ) . a healthy donor was discovered during routine neutrophil antigen typing whose neutrophils were also " na-null . " this na-phenotype was due to the absence of fcriii ( cd16 antigen ) on neutrophils as demonstrated with anti-fcriii monoclonal antibodies . the neutrophils of these two individuals were not able to bind dimeric immunoglobulin g. however , their cells had a normal expression of other phosphatidylinositol ( pi ) - linked membrane glycoprotein ( cd24 , cd67 , and clb gran/5 antigens ) , ruling out the existence of a pi-linkage defect , such as paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria . the mother ( propsitus ) had isoantibodies in her blood against neutrophil-fcriii without allospecificity , apparently produced during pregnancy and responsible for the neutropenia of her child . the expression of fcriii on natural killer lymphocytes of both individuals was normal . fcriii is encoded by two separate genes , one ( fcriii-1 ) for the neutrophil-pi-linked receptor , another ( fcriii-2 ) for the natural killer cell and macrophage-transmembrane receptor . by messenger rna and dna analysis ( with an fcriii-cdna probe and restriction endonucleases ) the neutrophil-fcriii deficiency appeared to be due to deletion of the fcriii-1 gene in both individuals , while the fcriii-2 gene was normally present . the parents of the propositus were found to be heterozygous for this defect . thus , fcriii-1 gene deficiency of the mother may be a cause of ( iso ) immune neutropenia of the newborn . whether this deficiency may have other clinical consequences has to be studied . 
levels of serum granulocyte colony-stimulating factor in patients with infections . to clarify the physiologic roles of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( g-csf ) in infectious states in vivo , we examined the serum levels of g-csf in patients with infection . serum samples from 24 patients in the acute stage of infection ( 14 men and 10 women , age 65 to 101 , without hematologic disorders ) , as well as samples from 32 age-matched normal elderly volunteers were investigated . sixteen of the initial 24 patients were reexamined after the recovery phase . g-csf levels were examined by quantitative enzyme immunoassay . the g-csf level in normal elderly controls , 25.3 + / - 19.7 pg/ml , was not different from that reported in other findings . there was no statistically significant relationship between their g-csf level and peripheral white blood cell count or neutrophilic granulocyte count . the g-csf level in the acute stage of infection was 731.8 + / - 895.0 pg/ml , with a range of 30 to 3,199 pg/ml . there was no significant difference in g-csf levels between patients with respiratory tract infection and those with urinary tract infection . in all 16 cases examined , the serum g-csf level in the acute stage of infection was significantly higher than that after recovery phase , the latter being the same as the level in normal elderly controls . g-csf must therefore play a significant role in human infectious states in vivo . 
interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) is an intermediate in il-1-induced proliferation of leukemic human megakaryoblasts . we have examined the in vitro effects of recombinant human ( rh ) interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) on the growth of purified megakaryoblasts obtained from patients with acute megakaryoblastic leukemia . we demonstrate that both il-1 alpha and il-1 beta treatment of these cells led to stimulation of dna synthesis ( as shown by increase of 3h-thymidine incorporation up to 35-fold ) and also resulted in colony formation of leukemic megakaryoblasts . however , the stimulatory effect of il-1 was dependent on endogenous production of il-6 , because addition of neutralizing monoclonal antibody ( moab ) to il-6 abrogated the stimulatory activity of il-1 . in contrast , neutralizing moabs to granulocyte ( g ) - colony stimulating factor ( csf ) , granulocyte-macrophage ( gm ) - csf , and macrophage ( m ) - csf failed to counteract the growth-enhancing effects of il-1 . leukemic megakaryoblasts accumulated il-6 mrna and released il-6 protein into their culture supernatant when exposed to rh il-1 but failed to disclose transcripts for g - , gm - , and m-csf under these conditions . analysis of il-6 receptor ( il-6r ) transcript levels demonstrated that megakaryoblasts constitutively expressed il-6r mrna and that these transcripts are down-regulated to undetectable levels upon exposure to il-1 and il-6 . increase of 3h-thymidine incorporation by megakaryoblasts could be duplicated by exogenous il-6 that could be blocked by neutralizing moab to il-6 . in conclusion , our results suggest that leukemic megakaryoblasts could produce and secrete il-6 , and express il-6r , and that the growth-enhancing effect of il-1 on these cells is indirect , via production of il-6 by leukemic cells . 
development of antibodies to thrombin and factor v with recurrent bleeding in a patient exposed to topical bovine thrombin . a 65 year old patient who was exposed to topical bovine thrombin during cardiac surgery developed markedly prolonged clotting times and a severe bleeding diathesis . mixing studies with normal plasma failed to correct the clotting times . platelet transfusions , immunosuppressive and immunomodulatory therapies were ineffective , but plasmapheresis was effective in decreasing clotting times and in the resolution of clinical bleeding events . the patient 's purified igg reacted with bovine thrombin by immunoblotting and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) . however , the igg reacted minimally with human thrombin . in view of the severe bleeding , a coexisting inhibitor was sought . the patient 's factor v activity was 1 % of normal and was not corrected by mixing with normal plasma , demonstrating the presence of an inhibitor against factor v. the patient 's igg reacted with both bovine and human factor v. immunoblotting localized the site of antibody binding to the light chain of activated bovine factor v. detectable amounts of bovine factor v were found in commercial bovine thrombin preparations by elisa . the data suggest that patients exposed to topical bovine thrombin may develop antibodies to thrombin and factor v. anti-thrombin antibodies may mask coexisting factor v inhibitors responsible for clinical bleeding . 
deletion of the human retinoblastoma gene in primary leukemias . as an initial step in evaluating the role of tumor suppressor genes in leukemogenesis , we surveyed primary leukemia cells from 130 patients for possible deletion of the retinoblastoma susceptibility ( rb ) gene by southern blot analysis . two of them clearly showed homozygous deletion of rb alleles . the first patient was a pre-b acute lymphoid leukemia ( all ) associated with a cytogenetic translocation : t ( 14 ; 16 ) ( q24 ; q22 ) . the deletion was located at the 3 ' portion of the rb gene , very close to the site of rb gene deletion recently identified in an all cell line . the absence of rb110 protein was further confirmed by western blot analysis . the second patient was a chronic myelomonocytic leukemia ( cmmol ) , terminated in acute blastic transformation . deletion of the 5 ' portion of rb gene was found in leukemic cells in the chronic stage . the results indicated that inactivation of the rb gene occurred in certain cases of leukemia . its significance warrants further study . 
expression of p-glycoprotein in adult t-cell leukemia cells . we have examined the expression of p-glycoprotein ( p-gp ) in adult t-cell leukemia ( atl ) samples from 25 patients . based on immunoblotting with a monoclonal antibody against p-gp , c219 , 8 of 20 atl patients were p-gp positive at the initial presentation . all 6 patients at the relapsed stage were p-gp positive , and refractory to chemotherapy . the expression of mdr1 mrna in p-gp-positive atl cells was increased at the relapsed stage of one patient . p-gp of this patient was photolabeled with [ 3h ] azidopine and the labeling was inhibited with nimodipine , vinblastine and progesterone . these results suggest that p-gp expressed in atl cells from patients at relapsed stage has the same binding site ( s ) for the drugs as that in multidrug resistant cells , and is correlated with the refractory nature of the cells to chemotherapy . 
association of bcl-1 rearrangements with lymphocytic lymphoma of intermediate differentiation . previous studies using classical cytogenetics have demonstrated the presence of the t ( 11 ; 14 ) ( q13 ; q32 ) chromosomal translocation in some cases of lymphocytic lymphoma of intermediate differentiation ( idl ) , a distinct type of low grade b-cell lymphoma . this finding suggested that the bcl-1 region ( located at band q13 of chromosome 11 ) might be involved in this neoplasm . using a genomic probe from the major breakpoint area of the bcl-1 locus , we identified rearrangements of the bcl-1 region in 10 of 19 cases , 2 of which comigrated with a rearranged allele of the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene joining region . in contrast , bcl-1 rearrangements were not found in other types of low grade b-cell lymphoma , specifically in 36 cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma ( cll/sll ) and 27 cases of follicular lymphoma ( fl ) . to further assess the molecular pathology of idl , we analyzed these cases for rearrangements of the bcl-2 proto-oncogene , which is associated primarily with follicular lymphomas . none of the 19 cases of idl had rearrangements . furthermore , none of the 36 cases of cll/sll showed bcl-2 rearrangements , whereas , as expected , 21 of 27 cases of fl had rearrangements of the bcl-2 locus . our findings demonstrate an association between a rearranged bcl-1 region with approximately 50 % of idls and suggest that abnormalities of this locus may be important in the pathogenesis of idl . 
molecular and hematologic characterization of scottish-irish type ( epsilon gamma delta beta ) zero thalassemia . the dna deletion associated with an example of ( epsilon gamma delta beta ) zero thalassemia ( scottish-irish type ) was characterized . the deletion is approximately 205 kb in length and involves the epsilon , g gamma , a gamma , delta , and beta globin genes . the breakpoint is located 263 bp 3 ' to exon 3 of the beta globin gene . an li ( kpni ) repeat element approximately 320 bp in size is found at the 3 ' end of the novel dna sequence . different clinical phenotypes for three heterozygous neonates suggest that the deletion alone does not predict severity of ( epsilon gamma delta beta ) zero thalassemia at this age . 
psychological outcomes of different treatment policies in women with early breast cancer outside a clinical trial objectives -- to assess outside a clinical trial the psychological outcome of different treatment policies in women with early breast cancer who underwent either mastectomy or breast conservation surgery depending on the surgeon 's opinion or the patient 's choice . to determine whether the extent of psychiatric morbidity reported in women who underwent breast conservation surgery was associated with their participation in a randomised clinical trial . design -- prospective , multicentre study capitalising on individual and motivational differences among patients and the different management policies among surgeons for treating patients with early breast cancer . setting -- 12 district general hospitals , three london teaching hospitals , and four private hospitals . patients -- 269 women under 75 with a probable diagnosis of stage i or ii breast cancer who were referred to 22 different surgeons . interventions -- surgery and radiotherapy or adjuvant chemotherapy , or both , depending on the individual surgeon 's stated preferences for managing early breast cancer . main outcome measures -- anxiety and depression as assessed by standard methods two weeks , three months , and 12 months after surgery . results -- of the 269 women , 31 were treated by surgeons who favoured mastectomy , 120 by surgeons who favoured breast conservation , and 118 by surgeons who offered a choice of treatment . sixty two of the women treated by surgeons who offered a choice were eligible to choose their surgery , and 43 of these chose breast conserving surgery . the incidences of anxiety , depression , and sexual dysfunction were high in all treatment groups . there were no significant differences in the incidences of anxiety and depression between women who underwent mastectomy and those who underwent lumpectomy . a significant effect of surgeon type on the incidence of depression was observed , with patients treated by surgeons who offered a choice showing less depression than those treated by other surgeons ( p = 0.06 ) . there was no significant difference in psychiatric morbidity between women treated by surgeons who offered a choice who were eligible to choose their treatment and those in the same group who were not able to choose . most of the women ( 159/244 ) gave fear of cancer as their primary fear rather than fear of losing a breast . the overall incidences of psychiatric morbidity in women who underwent mastectomy and those who underwent lumpectomy were similar to those found in the cancer research campaign breast conservation study . at 12 months 28 % of women who underwent mastectomy in the present study were anxious compared with 26 % in the earlier study , and 27 % of women in the present study who underwent lumpectomy were anxious compared with 31 % in the earlier study . in both the present and earlier study 21 % of women who underwent mastectomy were depressed , and 19 % of women who underwent lumpectomy in the present study were depressed compared with 27 % in the earlier study . ) conclusions -- there is still no evidence that women with early breast cancer who undergo breast conservation surgery have less psychiatric morbidity after treatment than those who undergo mastectomy . women who surrender autonomy for decision making by agreeing to participate in randomised clinical trials do not experience any different psychological , sexual , or social problems from those women who are treated for breast cancer outside a clinical trial . 
resuscitation of patients with cardiac arrest by ambulance staff with extended training in west yorkshire objective -- to investigate the results of resuscitation of patients with cardiac arrest by ambulance staff with extended training in west yorkshire . design -- study of all such attempts at resuscitation over 32 months , based on the standard report form for each call made by the ambulance staff and the electrocardiogram that showed the initial rhythm in each patient . setting -- area covered by west yorkshire ambulance service . subjects -- 1196 patients with cardiac arrests attended by 29 ambulance staff with extended training . main outcome measure -- result of resuscitation . results -- the initial rhythm was asystole or electromechanical dissociation in 740 patients and ventricular fibrillation in 456 patients ; overall 65 patients survived to be discharged from hospital . sixty four of the 456 patients in whom ventricular fibrillation was the initial rhythm recorded , and 46 in whom ventricular fibrillation persisted after the ambulance staff arrived , survived . only one of the 740 patients who initially had asystole or electromechanical dissociation survived . factors associated with a greater chance of ventricular fibrillation occurring were : age less than 71 , the arrest being witnessed by a bystander , resuscitation by a bystander , the arrest occurring in a public place , and a response time by the ambulance staff of less than six minutes . for patients found in ventricular fibrillation a shorter response time was associated with improved survival but resuscitation by a bystander was not . additional skills learnt during extended training were used for 51 of the 65 patients who survived . conclusions -- ambulance staff with extended training can save the lives of patients with cardiac arrest due to fibrillation , though asystole and electromechanical dissociation have a poor prognosis and should perhaps receive little attention during extended training . 
chronic anaemia , hyperbaric oxygen and tumour radiosensitivity . anaemia is an important factor in the response of some human tumours to radiotherapy . the outcome is also influenced by whether the treatment is given in air or high pressure oxygen ( hpo ) . the present study examined the relationship between anaemia and tumour response to radiation given in air or hpo in c3h mice transplanted with a mammary adenocarcinoma using a growth delay assay to assess the radiation response . chronic anaemia was induced by the use of a low iron diet and was characterized by a significant reduction in host haematocrit and whole blood viscosity . in addition , anaemia was associated with a right shift in the oxyhaemoglobin dissociation curve and an increase in the volume doubling time of the tumour ; but there was no change in the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the red cells . radiation studies with these anaemic mice demonstrated that the tumour radiosensitivity was decreased when treatment was given in air . hpo was successful in overcoming the increased radioresistance associated with anaemia . this result suggested that tumours grown in anaemic mice have a higher hypoxic fraction than those grown in control mice . changes in host physiology with chronic anaemia may contribute to the benefit seen with hpo but such alterations per se may be inadequate to maintain tumour oxygenation when treatment is given in air . 
choroid plexus cysts and chromosomal defects during a 4-year period , 83 pregnant women with fetal choroid plexus cysts were investigated in our unit . abnormal karyotypes were found in 20 fetuses , including trisomy 18 ( n = 16 ) , trisomy 13 ( n = 1 ) , triploidy ( n = 1 ) and translocation down 's syndrome ( n = 2 ) . all fetuses with chromosomal defects had structural malformations in addition to the choroid plexus cysts . 
ultrasonography in patients with suspected acute appendicitis : a prospective study . the diagnostic accuracy of high-resolution real-time ultrasonography was prospectively studied in 240 patients admitted to the hospital with suspected acute appendicitis . the criteria for ultrasound diagnosis of appendicitis included a sausage-shaped , aperistaltic , hypoechoic structure when imaged along its longitudinal axis , with a target-like appearance on transverse section . the ultrasonographic findings were correlated with surgical-pathological outcome in 82 cases with proven appendicitis , with laparotomy findings in another 21 patients and with clinical follow-up in the remainder . the overall sensitivity , specificity and accuracy of ultrasonography in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis were 78 % , 92 % and 87 % , respectively . the positive predictive value was 84 % and the negative predictive value was 88 % . ultrasonography may significantly improve the diagnostic accuracy in patients with suspected acute appendicitis and should be performed in all patients in whom the clinical diagnosis is equivocal . the ultrasonographic findings must be interpreted in light of the clinical findings . 
pathophysiological insights into the cardiomyopathy of chagas ' disease . the evidence gained from both human and animal studies of chronic chagasic cardiomyopathy suggests that the disease occurs as a consequence of several discrete and progressive pathophysiological processes occurring after infection , the ultimate expression of which depends on a host of unidentified factors . collectively , the infection-associated events compromise microvasculature function and result in hypoperfusion , with consequences indistinguishable from those observed in other , nonparasitological cardiomyopathic diseases secondary to hypoperfusion . therefore , chronic chagasic cardiomyopathy may share similar pathophysiological abnormalities with other chronic congestive cardiomyopathic states . 
catheterization laboratory events and hospital outcome with direct angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction to assess the safety of direct infarct angioplasty without antecedent thrombolytic therapy , catheterization laboratory and hospital events were assessed in consecutively treated patients with infarctions involving the left anterior descending ( n = 100 patients ) , right ( n = 100 ) , and circumflex ( n = 50 ) coronary arteries . the groups of patients were similar for age ( left anterior descending coronary artery , 59 years ; right coronary artery , 58 years ; circumflex coronary artery , 62 years ) , patients with multivessel disease ( left anterior descending coronary artery , 55 % ; right coronary artery , 55 % ; circumflex coronary artery , 64 % ) , and patients with initial grade 0/1 antegrade flow ( left anterior descending coronary artery , 79 % ; right coronary artery , 84 % ; circumflex coronary artery , 90 % ) . cardiogenic shock was present in eight patients with infarction of the left anterior descending coronary artery , four with infarction of the right coronary artery , and four with infarction of the circumflex coronary artery . major catheterization laboratory events ( cardioversion , cardiopulmonary resuscitation , dopamine or intra-aortic balloon pump support for hypotension , and urgent surgery ) occurred in 10 patients with infarction of the left anterior descending coronary artery , eight with infarction of the right coronary artery , and four with infarction of the circumflex coronary artery ( 16 of 16 shock and six of 234 nonshock patients , p less than 0.001 ) . there was one in-laboratory death ( shock patient with infarction of the left anterior descending coronary artery ) . 
sotalol versus quinidine for the maintenance of sinus rhythm after direct current conversion of atrial fibrillation this open , parallel-group study compares quinidine and sotalol treatment for maintenance of sinus rhythm after direct current conversion of patients with chronic atrial fibrillation . the patients from 15 centers in sweden were randomized to sotalol ( 98 patients ) or quinidine ( 85 patients ) after 2 hours of sinus rhythm after direct current conversion . according to primary efficacy assessment , 52 % of the patients in the sotalol group and 48 % of the patients in the quinidine group remained in sinus rhythm during the following 6-month treatment period ( ns ) . furthermore , 34 % of the patients treated with sotalol and 22 % of the patients treated with quinidine relapsed into atrial fibrillation ( ns ) . heart rate after relapsing into atrial fibrillation was higher in the patients treated with quinidine ( 109 beats/min ) than in the patients treated with sotalol ( 78 beats/min , p less than 0.001 ) . patients treated with sotalol were found to be less symptomatic at the time of relapse compared with relapsing patients in the quinidine group . in terms of safety , more patients were withdrawn from quinidine than from sotalol treatment ( 26 % vs. 11 % , p less than 0.05 ) , and sotalol was generally better tolerated than quinidine . twenty-eight percent of the patients treated with sotalol and 50 % of the patients treated with quinidine reported side effects ( p less than 0.01 ) . the difference was primarily a result of early ( within the first month of treatment ) gastrointestinal and skin side effects in the group of patients treated with quinidine . 
a controlled clinical trial to assess the effect of a calcium channel blocker on the progression of coronary atherosclerosis to determine whether calcium channel blockers influence the progression of coronary atherosclerosis , 383 patients age 65 years or less with 5-75 % stenoses in at least four coronary artery segments were selected at random within 1 month of coronary arteriography to participate in double-blind therapy with a placebo or nicardipine 30 mg three times daily . coronary events ( 5 deaths , 22 myocardial infarctions , and 28 unstable anginas ) occurred in 28 of 192 nicardipine patients and 23 of 191 placebo patients ( p = ns ) . at 24 months coronary arteriography was repeated in 335 patients . progression , defined as a 10 % or more worsening in diameter stenosis , measured quantitatively , was found in 147 of 1,153 lesions ( 12.7 % ) in 168 nicardipine patients and in 170 of 1,170 lesions ( 14.5 % ) in 167 placebo patients ( p = ns ) . ninety-two nicardipine patients ( 55 % ) and 95 placebo patients ( 57 % ) had progression at one or more sites ( p = ns ) . regression , that is , an improvement by 10 % or more in diameter stenosis , was seen in 140 of 2,323 lesions ( 6.0 % ) overall , with no significant intergroup difference . among the 217 patients with 411 stenoses of 20 % or less in the first study , such minimal lesions progressed in only 15 of 99 nicardipine patients compared with 32 of 118 placebo patients ( 15 % versus 27 % , p = 0.046 ) . in this subgroup , 16 of 178 minimal lesions in nicardipine patients and 38 of 233 minimal lesions in placebo patients progressed ( p = 0.038 ) . by stepwise logistic-regression analysis , baseline systolic blood pressure ( p = 0.04 ) and the change in systolic blood pressure between baseline and 6 months ( p = 0.002 ) correlated with progression of minimal lesions . this suggested blood pressure reduction may account for the beneficial action of nicardipine . these results suggested nicardipine has no effect on advanced coronary atherosclerosis but may retard the progression of minimal lesions . 
a prospective , randomized , double-blind , crossover study to compare the efficacy and safety of chronic nifedipine therapy with that of isosorbide dinitrate and their combination in the treatment of chronic congestive heart failure we performed a prospective , randomized , double-blind , crossover study to compare the efficacy and safety of vasodilation with the calcium entry blocker nifedipine with that of isosorbide dinitrate ( isdn ) and their combination as treatment for heart failure . twenty-eight patients with new york heart association functional class ii or iii chronic heart failure due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction were studied . all patients were maintained on a constant dose of digitalis and diuretics throughout the study . eight weeks of therapy with nifedipine alone or in combination with isdn resulted in a significantly higher incidence of heart failure deterioration necessitating hospitalizations and/or additional diuretics . twenty-four percent of patients required hospitalization during nifedipine therapy and 26 % required hospitalization during nifedipine-isdn combination therapy in comparison to 0 % requiring hospitalization during isdn therapy alone . the total number of heart failure-worsening episodes was nine among patients on nifedipine , three among patients on isdn ( p less than 0.09 versus nifedipine ) , and 21 among patients on nifedipine-isdn combination ( p less than 0.001 versus nifedipine , p less than 0.0001 versus isdn ) . premature discontinuation of drug administration due to clinical deterioration or other side effects occurred in 29 % of patients during nifedipine therapy , 5 % of patients during isdn therapy ( p = 0.05 versus nifedipine ) , and 19 % of patients during the combination therapy . a comparison of eight patients who demonstrated clinical deterioration on nifedipine with the remainder of the patients demonstrated no significant difference in left ventricular ejection fraction ( 0.24 + / - 0.06 versus 0.23 + / - 0.07 ) or maximal oxygen uptake during exercise ( 13 + / - 3 versus 14 + / - 2 ml/kg/min ) . 
effect of epinephrine and lidocaine therapy on outcome after cardiac arrest due to ventricular fibrillation . one hundred ninety-nine patients with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest persisted in ventricular fibrillation after the first defibrillation attempt and were then randomly assigned to receive either epinephrine or lidocaine before the next two shocks . the resulting electrocardiographic rhythms and outcomes for each group of patients were compared for each group and also compared with results during the prior 2 years , a period when similar patients primarily received sodium bicarbonate as initial adjunctive therapy . asystole occurred after defibrillation with threefold frequency after repeated injection of lidocaine ( 15 of 59 , 25 % ) compared with patients treated with epinephrine ( four of 55 , 7 % ) ( p less than 0.02 ) . there was no difference in the proportion of patients resuscitated after treatment with either lidocaine or epinephrine ( 51 of 106 , 48 % vs. 50 of 93 , 54 % ) and in the proportion surviving ( 18 , 19 % vs. 21 , 20 % ) , respectively . resuscitation ( 64 % vs. 50 % , p less than 0.005 ) but not survival rates ( 24 % vs. 20 % ) were higher during the prior 2-year period in which initial adjunctive drug treatment for persistent ventricular fibrillation primarily consisted of a continuous infusion of sodium bicarbonate . the negative effect of lidocaine or epinephrine treatment was explained in part by their influence on delaying subsequent defibrillation attempts . survival rates were highest ( 30 % ) in a subset of patients who received no drug therapy between shocks . we conclude that currently recommended doses of epinephrine and lidocaine are not useful for improving outcome in patients who persist in ventricular fibrillation . 
long-term results of catheter ablation of idiopathic right ventricular tachycardia ten consecutive patients with recurrent episodes of symptomatic , idiopathic , sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) originating in the right ventricle underwent an attempt at catheter ablation of the ventricular tachycardia . there were seven women and three men , with a mean age of 39 + / - 14 years ( + / - sd ) . none of the patients had any evidence of structural heart disease . the vt had a left bundle branch block configuration and an inferior axis in each patient , and the mean cycle length was 313 + / - 75 msec . based on the methods of induction of the vt and the response of the vt to verapamil , the vt mechanism was presumed to be reentry in six patients , triggered activity in three patients , and catecholamine-sensitive automaticity in one patient . sites for ablation were guided by pace mapping , and an appropriate target site was identified in the right ventricular outflow tract in each patient . from one to three shocks of 100-360 j ( mean total , 336 + / - 195 j ) were delivered from a defibrillator between the tip of the ablation catheter ( cathode ) and a patch electrode on the anterior chest ( anode ) . an electrophysiology test 7-9 days after ablation demonstrated that vt was still inducible in only one patient , who was treated with amiodarone . one other patient had a recurrence of vt 3 weeks after ablation and was treated with verapamil . eight of 10 patients were not treated with antiarrhythmic medications and have had no episodes of symptomatic vt during 15-68 months of follow-up ( mean follow-up , 33 + / - 18 months ) . there were no acute or long-term complications . 
effect of nontransmural necrosis on epicardial potential fields . correlation with fiber direction . the effect of nontransmural necrosis on epicardial potential distributions was studied in 13 dogs . in previous studies , left ventricular epicardial pacing generated epicardial potential maps at qrs onset with a negative central area and two positive areas that faced the portions of the wavefront propagating along fibers . subsequently , the positive areas expanded in a counterclockwise direction by 90 degrees to 120 degrees . in those studies , the rotatory expansion of the positive areas was tentatively attributed to the spread of excitation through deep myocardial layers , where fiber direction rotated counterclockwise from epicardium to endocardium . to test this hypothesis , we tried to interrupt the counterclockwise expansion of the positive area by creating localized , nontransmural necrosis at various depths in the left ventricular wall by injection of formalin or application of laser energy . epicardial potential maps were obtained from a grid of 12 x 15 electrodes on a 44 x 56-mm area . epicardial pacing from selected sites generated epicardial maps in which some positive areas were missing compared with controls . the direction of the straight line joining the pacing site to the site of missing positivity correlated well with the average fiber direction in the necrotic mass ( r = 0.82 , p less than 0.01 ) . angle between epicardial fiber direction and the straight line described above correlated well with the average depth of the necrosis , expressed as percent of the wall thickness ( r = 0.95 , p less than 0.01 ) . these data support the hypothesis that the counterclockwise expansion of the epicardial positivity occurring after epicardial pacing results from excitation spreading along deep fibers . 
bleeding time prolongation with streptokinase and its reduction with 1-desamino-8-d-arginine vasopressin . the mechanism by which treatment with thrombolytic agents causes bleeding is not known . recently , frequency of bleeding events has been shown to correlate with bleeding time , particularly in individuals treated with aspirin . we examined the effects of streptokinase ( 20,000-60 ,000 iu/kg ) on bleeding time in 40 rabbits pretreated with aspirin , a model for fibrinolytic therapy . we then tested the effects of 1-desamino-8-d-arginine vasopressin ( ddavp ) ( 0.3 microgram/kg ) , an agent known to reduce bleeding time in a variety of bleeding disorders , in 20 rabbits and compared the results with those of a control group of rabbits receiving normal saline placebo . aspirin increased the bleeding time from a baseline mean + / - sem value of 119 + / - 15 to 191 + / - 34 seconds in the control group and from 114 + / - 6 to 188 + / - 18 seconds in the experimental group . the addition of streptokinase increased the bleeding time to 592 + / - 119 seconds in the control group and 810 + / - 114 seconds in the experimental group ( p = ns ) . subsequent infusion of ddavp decreased the bleeding time in the experimental group to 302 + / - 29 seconds ( p less than 0.01 versus streptokinase ) compared with 572 + / - 79 seconds ( p = ns versus streptokinase ) in the control animals given saline placebo . in a subset of rabbits receiving aspirin and streptokinase ( 40,000-60 ,000 iu/kg ) , samples were obtained for platelet aggregation ( n = 16 ) , von willebrand factor antigen concentration ( n = 17 ) , and von willebrand factor multimer distribution ( n = 14 ) . maximal rates of adp-induced platelet aggregation were not affected by ddavp infusion , nor was the plasma concentration of von willebrand factor antigen , quantified by an immunoradiometric assay , significantly affected by ddavp infusion . furthermore , the von willebrand factor multimer ratio decreased with ddavp administration . these findings indicate that aspirin and streptokinase combined result in a marked increase in bleeding time that can be reduced by ddavp . this effect of ddavp is not accompanied by an increase in platelet aggregation response , plasma von willebrand factor antigen concentration , or von willebrand factor multimer ratio . 
significance of discordant st alternans in ventricular fibrillation . with the use of epicardial mapping , we investigated the electrical alternans of the st segment during acute myocardial ischemia and studied the difference in st alternans between dogs with resultant ventricular fibrillation and those without it . during the 7-minute occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery below its first diagonal branch , 60 epicardial unipolar electrograms were recorded simultaneously at 1-minute intervals by a computerized mapping system . st alternans was found in the eight dogs we observed . the amplitude of st alternans ( difference in the st segment elevation of two consecutive electrograms ) was greater in dogs with ventricular fibrillation ( n = 4 ) than in those without it ( n = 4 ) ( 3.92 + / - 1.24 versus 0.58 + / - 0.49 mv , p less than 0.05 ) . three of the four dogs with ventricular fibrillation demonstrated discordant st alternans ( i.e. , adjacent leads were out of phase ) . results from the present study indicate that an increased amplitude and discordance of st alternans during acute myocardial ischemia are related to ventricular fibrillation and act as indicators of time and spatial unevenness of ventricular repolarization . 
restenosis after balloon angioplasty . a practical proliferative model in porcine coronary arteries . a model of proliferative human restenosis was developed in domestic pigs by using deep injury to the coronary arterial media . metal wire coils were delivered percutaneously to the coronary arteries of 11 pigs with an oversized , high-pressure ( 14 atm ) balloon and were left in place for times ranging from 28 to 70 days . during placement , the balloon expanded the coils and delivered them securely within the arterial lumen . light microscopic examination of the vessels confirmed fracture of the internal elastic lamina by the coil . an extensive proliferative response occurred in 10 of the 11 pigs and was associated with a luminal area narrowing of at least 50 % in all but one pig . the histopathologic features of the proliferative response were identical to those observed in human cases of restenosis after angioplasty . immunohistochemical studies confirmed the prominence of smooth muscle cells in the proliferative tissue . a similar response was obtained in two of five porcine coronary arteries in which balloon inflation only was performed , without coil implant . this model is practical and inexpensive and closely mimics the proliferative portion of human restenosis both grossly and microscopically . thus , it may be useful for understanding human restenosis and for testing therapies aimed at preventing restenosis after balloon angioplasty or other coronary interventional procedures . 
channel specificity in antiarrhythmic drug action . mechanism of potassium channel block and its role in suppressing and aggravating cardiac arrhythmias . although work on class iii antiarrhythmics remains at an early stage , these agents still appear to possess greater efficacy and less proarrhythmia than conventional class i agents in those experimental arrhythmia models considered to be most representative of the clinical situation . although prolongation of repolarization carries with its own tendency for pause-dependent arrhythmogenesis ( i.e. , torsade de pointes ) , available data suggest that this may be a function of nonspecificity in potassium channel block rather than a general characteristic of class iii activity . the availability of new and more selective blockers of specific cardiac potassium channels under development as class iii agents have already helped to clarify basic questions about the ionic mechanism of repolarization in the heart , and one hopes that a growing clinical data base will eventually determine the relative safety and efficacy of these agents in preventing symptomatic and life-threatening arrhythmias . 
neurologic complications in chronic renal failure : a retrospective study . we have retrospectively examined 324 patients with chronic renal failure and evaluated the probable underlying causes of neurologic complications , laboratory data and therapeutic interventions . the common neurologic problems in our patients were alterations in consciousness ( 40.7 % ) and convulsions ( 35.1 % ) . when bun concentration was above 135 mg/dl and creatinine clearance was below 8 m/min/1 .73 m2 , alteration of consciousness was observed and when bun concentration was 200 mg/dl and creatinine clearance was below 7 m/min/1 .73 m2 , abnormal convulsives appeared . changes in deep tendon reflexes and pathologic reflexes were associated with hypertension . all of the patients with cortical atrophy using computerized cranial tomography aluminum hydroxide at least for 18 months , and six of them had hemodialysis . fourteen patients who underwent dialysis developed convulsions and were thought to have disequilibrium syndrome . these findings are consistent with the suggestion that the metabolic and biochemical derangements associated with crf may be particularly detrimental to the still developing cns of the child . 
acute and chronic bacterial prostatitis : a review of treatment approaches . some authors describe acute bacterial prostatitis as a self-limiting disease , and as with any other acute septic condition , parenteral broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy is indicated . chronic bacterial prostatitis , however , is associated with a causative organism persisting unaltered in prostatic fluid and leading to relapsing urinary tract infections . in the 1970s , several workers produced a classification system and bacteriologic localization cultures for establishing the diagnosis of prostatitis . krieger and crawford point to an important factor that is omitted in many clinical trials with episodes of chronic bacterial prostatitis in men . if localization studies of the prostate infection are attempted in the presence of bacteriuria , the urine must be sterilized with nitrofurantoin or penicillin g. urine cultures obtained from first-voided urine , bladder urine , and urine voided after prostatic massage should show no growth , and the expressed prostatic secretion can then be examined for evidence of prostatic infection . this procedure reduces the contamination of the expressed prostatic secretion by the organism from the urinary tract infection . this is important , because antibiotic treatment is determined by the sensitivity of the organism isolated from the prostate as well as by the ability of the antibiotics to penetrate the prostate . meares outlines the pharmacokinetic features needed for drug diffusion into prostatic fluid and provides detailed information on the physical characteristics of the prostate during acute and chronic bacterial prostatitis . unfortunately , the choice of an ideal drug can not be extrapolated from this information because pharmacodynamic principles can not predict clinical efficacy . some authors find that sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim has the best cure rate in the treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis . 
predictive value of congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium as a clinical marker for familial adenomatous polyposis . one hundred forty-eight members of 53 kindreds with familial adenomatous polyposis ( fap ) were examined for congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium ( chrpe ) and extracolonic manifestations ( ecm ) to assess the value of chrpe as a predictive marker for fap . based on eye examination results , the families were divided into 2 groups . in a first group of 34 families , all 61 members diagnosed as having polyps and 13 of the 33 patients at risk had 4 or more lesions distributed in both eyes . by contrast , in a second group of 18 families , all 32 polyposis patients and all 18 members at risk had less than 4 lesions . extra-colonic manifestations were present in 26 of 34 families in the first group and in 11 of 18 families in the second group . data on one family with ambiguous ancestry were reviewed separately . the existence of 4 or more chrpe lesions distributed in both eyes seems to be a congenital marker for fap , present in 65.4 percent of families . when present in a family : 1 ) it is found in all diagnosed patients in that family , 2 ) can therefore be considered predictive for the development of polyps in other family members who carry the trait , and 3 ) if confirmed by longer follow-up , may possibly preclude members without the trait from further evaluation and surveillance . 
perianal abscess and fistula-in-ano in children . the authors present a retrospective review of 40 pediatric patients with perianal abscess and/or fistula-in-ano . the total patient population could be divided clinically into 2 broad groups . the first group consisted of 22 infants younger than 2 years of age , all of whom were males , and 10 of whom presented with recurrences after previous incision and drainage . of the 14 infants presenting with an abscess , in 12 ( 85.7 percent ) , a fistula-in-ano was discovered at surgery . in contrast , in the group of 18 children older than 2 years of age , there were 7 females and 11 males , and fistulas were identified in only 7 of 13 patients ( 54.8 percent ) who presented with abscesses . surgical treatment consisted of examination under anesthesia and a diligent search for a fistulous tract . abscesses were primarily saucerized and fistulotomy and cryptotomy of the confluent crypt was performed if a fistulous tract was identified . the only recurrences with this form of treatment occurred in the two immunocompromised patients . 
effects of preoperative radiotherapy on rectal cancer . preliminary report on combining radiation with intratumor injections of peplomycin and bromodeoxyuridine . between 1976 and 1983 , 61 patients with advanced rectal cancer underwent miles ' operation at the authors ' institution . all lesions were located 10 cm or less from the anal verge . of these patients , 25 were treated by surgery alone and 36 were given preoperative radiotherapy . the total dose was 42.6 gy , ( 30.6 gy [ 1.8 gy/fr x 5/week ] ) delivered to the entire pelvis plus an additional 12 gy ( 3.0 gy/fr x 4/week ) delivered to the primary tumor . of 36 patients , 21 were administered intratumor injections of peplomycin and bromodeoxyuridine at the time of boost radiation and 15 were treated without intratumor injections . during the follow-up period ( 3 to 9 years ) , in the groups of patients who underwent radiation , there was only one local failure ( 2.8 percent ) . in contrast , in the group of patients treated by surgery alone , eight local failures occurred ( 32 percent ) . the intratumor injection significantly enhanced the effect of radiation on tumor regression . the incidence of positive lymph nodes was higher in patients in the surgery alone group than it was in the groups treated with radiation . there was no difference in the rate of distant metastasis among the three treatment groups . the five-year survival rate for the radiation with intratumor injection group , radiation alone group , and surgery alone group , was 77.8 , 69.2 , and 56.0 percent , respectively . no severe complication was experienced . 
intestinal perforation due to cytomegalovirus infection in patients with aids . intestinal perforation due to cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infection in patients with aids is the most common life-threatening condition requiring emergency celiotomy in these patients . the authors describe a patient with aids with intestinal perforation due to cmv infection , and review 14 additional cases reported in the english-language surgical literature . the diagnostic triad of pneumoperitoneum on x-ray , evidence or history of cmv infection , and aids occurred in 70 percent of patients . the most common site of intestinal perforation was the colon ( 53 percent ) , followed in frequency by the distal ileum ( 40 percent ) and appendix ( 7 percent ) ; perforation usually occurred between the distal ileum and splenic flexure of the colon . colonoscopy , rather than sigmoidoscopy , is recommended as a screening examination in patients with aids suspected of having colonic ulceration due to cmv infection . multiple biopsies of ulcerated tissue should be obtained . gross and microscopic analyses of involved intestinal tissue reveal the characteristic findings of ulceration and cmv infection . despite aggressive therapy , the operative mortality rate in patients with aids with intestinal perforation due to cmv infection was 54 percent and the overall mortality rate was 87 percent . postoperative complications occurred in most patients and consisted mainly of systemic sepsis and pneumonia caused by pneumocystis carinii infection . an increased awareness of this syndrome by physicians frequently called on to manage patients with aids is recommended . 
anal ulcerations due to cytomegalovirus in patients with aids . report of six cases . lesions due to cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) are frequent in the immunocompromised patient . this is particularly the case in patients with aids , where the colon and rectum are the regions most often involved . the authors report six cases of anal ulcerations due to cmv in patients with aids . these lesions , confirmed histologically , were either isolated or associated with other localizations . treatment is based on specific antiviral agents but resistance and recurrence can occur . the current report underlines the importance of histologic examination of anal lesions in hiv-infected subjects . 
passage of a colon ' cast ' after anoabdominal rectal resection . report of a case . the authors report a case of the passage of a total colonic j-pouch " cast " per anus after anoabdominal rectal resection and colonic j-pouch-anal anastomosis . this occurred without development of cuff abscess and was not due to occlusion of the inferior mesenteric artery . this was successfully treated , with preservation of anal function , with resection of the colonic j-pouch by transanal approach . 
whole-body lipolysis and triglyceride-fatty acid cycling in cachectic patients with esophageal cancer . whole-body lipolytic rates and the rate of triglyceride-fatty acid cycling ( reesterification of fatty acids released during lipolysis ) were measured with stable isotopic tracers in the basal state and during beta-adrenergic blockade with propranolol infusion in five cachectic patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus , five cachectic cancer-free , nutritionally-matched control patients , and 10 healthy volunteers . resting energy expenditure and plasma catecholamines were normal in all three groups . the basal rate of glycerol appearance in blood in the patients with cancer ( 2.96 + / - 0.45 mumol.kg-1 . min-1 ) was similar to that in the nutritionally matched controls ( 3.07 + / - 0.28 mumol.kg-1 . min-1 ) , but 48 % greater than in the normal-weight volunteers ( 2.00 + / - 0.16 mumol.kg-1 . min-1 ) ( p = 0.028 ) . the antilipolytic effect of propranolol and the rate of triglyceride-fatty acid cycling in the patients with cancer were also similar in the cachectic control group and approximately 50 % greater than in the normal-weight volunteers , but the differences were not statistically significant because of the variability in the data . we conclude that the increase in lipolysis and triglyceride-fatty acid cycling in " unstressed " cachectic patients with esophageal cancer is due to alterations in their nutritional status rather than the presence of tumor itself . increased beta-adrenergic activity may be an important contributor to the stimulation of lipolysis . 
role of cytochrome p-450 in reperfusion injury of the rabbit lung . reactive oxygen species are a major cause of damage occurring in ischemic tissue after reperfusion . during reperfusion transitional metals such as iron are required for reactive oxygen species to mediate their major toxic effects . xanthine oxidase is an important source of reactive oxygen species during ischemia-reperfusion injury , but not in all organs or species . because cytochrome p-450 enzymes are an important pulmonary source of superoxide anion ( o2 - . ) generation under basal conditions and during hyperoxia , and provide iron catalysts necessary for hydroxyl radical ( . oh ) formation and propagation of lipid peroxidation , we postulated that cytochrome p-450 might have a potential role in mediating ischemia-reperfusion injury . in this report , we explored the role of cytochrome p-450 enzymes in a rabbit model of reperfusion lung injury . the p-450 inhibitors 8-methoxypsoralen , piperonyl butoxide , and cimetidine markedly decreased lung edema from transvascular fluid flux . cimetidine prevented the reperfusion-related increase in lung microvascular permeability , as measured by movement of 125i-albumin from the vascular space into lung water and alveolar fluid . p-450 inhibitors also prevented the increase in lung tissue levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive products in the model . p-450 inhibitors did not block enhanced o2 - . generation by ischemic reperfused lungs , measured by in vivo reduction of succinylated ferricytochrome c in lung perfusate , but did prevent the increase in non-protein-bound low molecular weight chelates of iron after reperfusion . thus , cytochrome p-450 enzymes are not likely a major source of enhanced o2 - . generation , but serve as an important source of iron in mediating oxidant injury to the rabbit lung during reperfusion . these results suggest an important role of cytochrome p-450 in reperfusion injury to the lung and suggest potential new therapies for the disorder . 
two different point g to a mutations in exon 10 of the porphobilinogen deaminase gene are responsible for acute intermittent porphyria . two mutations of the porphobilinogen ( pbg ) deaminase gene resulting in cross-reacting immunological material ( crim ) positive forms of acute intermittent porphyria ( aip ) have been identified by in vitro amplification of cdna and cloning of the amplified products in a bacterial expression vector . both mutations resulted from g to a transitions in exon 10 of the gene and produced arginine to glutamine substitutions in the abnormal protein . expression of mutant cdna in escherichia coli reveals that one but not the other of these amino acid changes results in a striking decrease of the optimal ph of the mutated enzyme . one or the other of these two mutations accounted for the defect causing aip in six unrelated patients among the eight patients evaluated with the crim positive subtype of this disorder . 
structure and distribution of an alu-type deletion mutation in sandhoff disease . sandhoff disease is a recessively inherited lysosomal storage disease resulting from a deficiency of beta-hexosaminidase activity . the enzyme occurs in two major forms , beta-hexosaminidase a , composed of an alpha - and beta-subunit and beta-hexosaminidase b , composed of two beta-subunits . both isozyme activities are deficient in sandhoff disease , owing to mutations of the hexb gene encoding the common beta-subunit . we have cloned and fully characterized a deletion at the hexb gene from fibroblasts of a patient with the infantile form of sandhoff disease . the deletion removes approximately 16 kb of dna including the hexb promoter , exons 1-5 and part of intron 5 . it most likely arose from recombination between two alu sequences , with the breakpoints occurring at the midpoint between the left and right arms in each case and regenerating an intact alu element in the deletion sequence . the deletion allele accounts for 27 % of the sandhoff mutant alleles we analyzed . two cell lines were shown to be homozygous for the deletion and both had the infantile form of the disease . four additional patients were compound heterozygotes with other mutations , all of whom displayed a different clinical phenotype . finally , the mutant allele was present in different ethnic backgrounds , suggesting that it may have been subject to genetic drift . 
pearson 's marrow-pancreas syndrome . a multisystem mitochondrial disorder in infancy . pearson 's marrow-pancreas syndrome ( mckusick no . 26056 ) is a fatal disorder of hitherto unknown etiology involving the hematopoietic system , exocrine pancreas , liver , and kidneys . the observation of high lactate/pyruvate molar ratios in plasma and abnormal oxidative phosphorylation in lymphocytes led us to postulate that pearson 's syndrome belongs to the group of mitochondrial cytopathies . since rearrangements of the mitochondrial genome between direct dna repeats were consistently found in all tissues tested , our results show that this disease is in fact a multisystem mitochondrial disorder , as suggested by the clinical course of the patients . based on these observations , we would suggest giving consideration to the hypothesis of a defect of oxidative phosphorylation in elucidating the origin of other syndromes , especially those associated with an abnormal oxidoreduction status in plasma . 
l-tryptophan implicated in human eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome causes fasciitis and perimyositis in the lewis rat . tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome ( l-trp-ems ) is a newly described syndrome which occurred in epidemic fashion in the united states in the summer and fall of 1989 . epidemiologic data has linked the syndrome to intake of l-tryptophan ( l-trp ) from one specific manufacturer , but the precise etiologic compound ( s ) must be established by replication of the syndrome in an appropriate animal model . in this study , implicated l-trp , united states pharmacopeia ( usp ) grade l-trp , or vehicle was administered by gavage in a blinded fashion for 38 d to female lewis rats at doses comparable with those ingested by patients who developed the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . animals receiving implicated l-trp , but not those receiving usp grade l-trp or vehicle , developed histologic signs consistent with fasciitis and perimyositis , specific pathologic features of human l-trp-ems . peripheral blood eosinophilia was not observed . hypothalamic corticotropin releasing hormone mrna levels were lower and plasma corticosterone levels tended to be lower in the animals that received implicated l-trp . plasma l-kynurenine was higher in both l-trp-treated groups compared to the vehicle-treated animals . the female lewis rat is known to be susceptible to a wide variety of inflammatory diseases . identification of specific inflammatory changes in this rat following exposure to implicated l-trp indicates that this animal model will be important in subsequent investigations into the etiology , pathogenesis , and treatment of human l-trp-ems . 
role of endothelium-derived nitric oxide in the bleeding tendency of uremia . endothelium-derived relaxing factor , now identified as nitric oxide ( no ) , is a labile humoral agent formed by vascular endothelial cells from l-arginine . no mediates the action of substances that induce endothelium-dependent relaxation and plays a role in regulating blood pressure . in this study we investigated whether no is involved in the pathogenesis of the bleeding tendency associated with renal failure . rats with extensive surgical ablation of renal mass develop renal insufficiency due to progressive glomerulosclerosis . like uremic humans , rats with renal mass reduction and uremia have a bleeding tendency that manifests itself by a prolonged bleeding time . we found that n-monomethyl-l-arginine ( l-nmma ) , a specific inhibitor of no formation from l-arginine , completely normalized bleeding time when given to uremic rats . l-nmma injection also increased ex vivo platelet adhesion but did not affect ex vivo platelet aggregation induced by adenosine diphosphate , arachidonic acid , and calcium ionophore a23187 . the shortening effect of l-nmma on bleeding time was completely reversed by giving the animals the no precursor l-arginine , but not d-arginine , which is not a precursor of no . it thus appears that no is a mediator of the bleeding tendency of uremia . 
chronic illness and depressive symptoms in the elderly : a population-based study . a cross-sectional study of the distribution of depressive symptoms and association between depressed mood and chronic illness was conducted in a geographically defined population in southern california of 1617 men and women aged 65 years and older . the prevalence of depressed mood for the total population was 5.2 % . women exhibited a significantly higher mean depressive symptom score and a prevalence rate almost twice that of men . depressive symptoms were associated with several risk factors in both sexes , including age , self-perception of current health status , number of reported chronic diseases and medications and amount of exercise . however , the relationship between physical illness and depressive symptoms appeared to differ by sex with respect to the nature of the disease or disability and the type of medication currently used . these findings indicate that the risk of depression does not diminish with age among the elderly as other studies have suggested . 
acupuncture and chronic pain : a criteria-based meta-analysis . a literature search revealed 51 controlled clinical studies on the effectiveness of acupuncture in chronic pain . these studies were reviewed using a list of 18 predefined methodological criteria . a maximum of 100 points for study design could be earned in four main categories : ( a ) comparability of prognosis , ( b ) adequate intervention , ( c ) adequate effect measurement and ( d ) data presentation . the quality of even the better studies proved to be mediocre . no study earned more than 62 % of the maximum score . the results from the better studies ( greater than or equal to 50 % of the maximum score ) are highly contradictory . the efficacy of acupuncture in the treatment of chronic pain remains doubtful . 
shortcut method to calculate the sample size in trials of screening for chronic disease . one of the first questions arising in the planning of a randomized trial to evaluate mortality reduction by screening concerns the sample size of the trial required to detect an expected mortality reduction in the study group for given significance level alpha , and power 1 - beta . if estimates exist of the underlying average annual incidence rate of the disease ra and the annual mortality rate delta a or survival data for patients in the population under consideration before screening started , then a simple formula for the probability of dying from the disease within t years after entry into the trial can be given for the control group . standard formulas may then be used for sample size calculations in randomized trials , which compare the risk of death from the disease in the control and the study group accrued at t years after entry . a simple correction for loss of follow-up , due to mortality from other causes or , for instance , migration is possible . 
l-tyrosine potentiates the anorexia induced by mixed-acting sympathomimetic drugs in hyperphagic rats . the effects of l-tyrosine ( l-tyr ) on the anorectic activity of several mixed-acting sympathomimetics were determined during the dark cycle in rats made hyperphagic by food deprivation . l-tyr ( 200 mg/kg ) significantly potentiated the anorectic activity of phenylpropanolamine , ( - ) - ephedrine and ( + ) - amphetamine by 48 , 50 and 37 % , respectively . when the dose of l-tyr was varied ( 25-400 mg/kg ) , a significant dose-dependent relationship was noted . the observed potentiation was positively correlated with increases in brain tyr concentrations ; blockade of l-tyr uptake into the brain by the coadministration of l-valine prevented this potentiation . various other l-amino acids , as well as d-tyr , failed to mimic the potentiating action of l-tyr . as determined by alpha-methyl-p-tyr pretreatment , the l-tyr-induced potentiation was dependent upon increased catecholamine synthesis . although various other mixed-acting sympathomimetic anorexiants were similarly potentiated by l-tyr , the direct-acting beta-2 adrenoceptor anorexiants , salbutamol and methoxyphenamine , were not . these results indicate that l-tyr specifically potentiates the anorectic activity of the studied mixed-acting sympathomimetics and are consistent with the requirement of the central conversion of l-tyr to catecholamines via tyr hydroxylase for this response . the possibility that the effect of mixed-acting sympathomimetics is normally limited by the availability of l-tyr is suggested . 
on the metallothionein , glutathione and cysteine relationship in rat liver . stress and starvation increased liver metallothionein ( mt ) and decreased liver glutathione ( gsh ) levels . serum cysteine plus cystine levels were increased by stress . the exogenous administration of gsh , while not modifying hepatic gsh content , increased liver mt levels in basal and starved rats but not in stressed rats . liver and serum cysteine levels were increased by gsh administration , a process partially reverted by the irreversible inhibitor of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase , alpha-amino-3-chloro-4 ,5 - dihydro-5-isoxazoleacetic acid . mouse and rat liver mt levels were also increased by buthionine sulfoximine , an inhibitor of gsh synthesis , indicating that gsh is not a necessary precursor of mt. in addition , the hepatic mt content was increased by the administration of cysteine in a dose-response manner . these results suggest that hepatic mt synthesis is elevated by increased cysteine pools , and that mt , gsh and cysteine levels are somehow inter-related . mt , besides gsh , may be contemplated as a putative intracellular reservoir of cysteine in the liver of adult rats . 
precipitated abstinence in orally dosed benzodiazepine-dependent dogs . the ability of graded doses of flumazenil ( 2 , 6 , 18 , 36 and 72 mg/kg ) and a lactose placebo to precipitate abstinence was studied in dogs treated chronically with diazepam , nordiazepam , flunitrazepam , alprazolam , oxazepam , halazepam and lorazepam by oral dosing . a scale comprised of 10 precipitated abstinence signs , the benzodiazepine precipitated abstinence scale , was developed , which yielded linear flumazenil log-dose response lines with significant slopes in dogs dependent on diazepam , nordiazepam and flunitrazepam . the effects of 18 , 36 and 72 mg/kg of flumazenil in otherwise drug naive dogs were studied . in naive dogs , the most prominent effect of flumazenil was to reduce activity . all benzodiazepines studied produced dependence that was characterized by signs of precipitated abstinence ; however , the intensity and quality of abstinence varied from one benzodiazepine to another . precipitated abstinence in dogs treated chronically with diazepam and flunitrazepam was characterized by a dose-related increase in clonic convulsions and benzodiazepine precipitated abstinence scale scores . this pattern differed from that seen in nordiazepam - and alprazolam-dependent dogs , which showed a comparable flumazenil dose-related increase in clonic convulsion but only a modest increase in benzodiazepine precipitated abstinence scale scores . oxazepam and lorazepam produced dependence that was less intense than that seen with the other benzodiazepines . plasma levels of the benzodiazepines and their metabolites were repeatedly determined after single doses and during addiction cycles . nordiazepam accumulated in diazepam - and nordiazepam-dependent dogs and alpha-oh alprazolam accumulated in alprazolam-dependent dogs . other drugs and metabolites did not . these observations suggest that : 1 ) different benzodiazepines or their metabolites produce different types of physical dependence , suggesting that they or their metabolites have different mechanisms and sites of action ; 2 ) plasma cumulation of the benzodiazepines or their active metabolites is an important factor in the genesis of physical dependence ; and 3 ) metabolism of benzodiazepines plays an important role in their dependence-producing capacity , and because of differences in the way species metabolize benzodiazepines , the type of dependence produced in different species may differ . 
peripheral opioid receptors mediating antinociception in inflammation . evidence for activation by enkephalin-like opioid peptides after cold water swim stress . this study utilized inhibitors of the enzymatic degradation of enkephalins to investigate the possibility that this class of opioid peptides contributes to the stress-induced antinociception seen in inflamed peripheral tissues of rats with freund 's complete adjuvant-initiated unilateral hind paw inflammation . following a 1-min cold water swim stress , rats previously injected in both hind paws with vehicle showed a transient elevation of paw pressure threshold , which was much greater in inflamed than in noninflamed paws and returned to control levels within 15 min . this preferential antinociception was significantly pronounced and prolonged in rats previously injected bilaterally with a cocktail of the enkephalinase inhibitors thiorphan ( 0.2 mg intraplantar ) and bestatin ( 0.2 mg intraplantar ) . the enhancement of stress-induced antinociception by thiorphan/bestatin was dose-dependently antagonized by tertiary naloxone ( 0.125-2 mg kg-1 s.c. ) . evidence for a peripheral site of action of enkephalin-like peptides in this model was provided by the antagonism of the actions of thiorphan/bestatin by quaternary naltrexone ( 10-20 mg kg-1 s.c. ) . systemic administration of the orally active enkephalinase inhibitor sch 34826 ( 5-40 mg kg-1 i.p. ) was also able to dose-dependently potentiate the preferential stress-induced antinociception in a naloxone ( 1 mg kg-1 s.c. ) reversible manner . 
interruption of critical aortoiliac collateral circulation during nonvascular operations : a cause of acute limb-threatening ischemia . in patients with aortoiliac occlusive disease interruption of critical collaterals during another nonvascular or cardiac operation may threaten limb viability . this occurred in four patients whose limb-threatening ischemia was precipitated by radical cystectomy with bilateral hypogastric artery ligation , left colon resection , or coronary artery revascularizations by means of the internal mammary artery . important collateral pathways , the interruption of which may account for this phenomenon , are detailed , and approaches are outlined for prevention and management of acute ischemia in this setting . 
one hundred percent oxygen reverses muscle hypoxia in a rat hindlimb model of acute arterial occlusion . significant morbidity results from extremity ischemia after acute arterial occlusion . reestablishment of arterial flow is considered to be the ideal treatment , yet substantial tissue loss can occur before this is accomplished . using a rat hindlimb model we investigated whether the administration of 100 % oxygen would decrease tissue hypoxia from acute arterial occlusion . adult male sprague-dawley rats were used , and po2 recordings were taken from the gastrocnemius muscle by use of an oxygen electrode . baseline muscle po2 was recorded , and then the femoral artery was occluded . repeat recordings were made after 20 minutes of ventilation with room air and after an additional 20 minutes of ventilation with 100 % oxygen ( n = 10 ) . control groups consisted of animals undergoing occlusion but continued on room air ( n = 3 ) and animals undergoing sham occlusion but receiving the period of 100 % oxygen ventilation ( n = 3 ) . femoral artery occlusion produced a reduction in muscle po2 from 28.0 + / - 1.4 to 6.1 + / - 2.0 ( mean + / - sem , p less than 0.001 ) . ventilation with 100 % oxygen reversed the tissue hypoxia produced by occlusion ( 27.3 + / - 2.0 , p less than 0.001 ) . the administration of 100 % oxygen without femoral artery occlusion resulted in a higher tissue po2 than the occluded + oxygen group ( 94 + / - 12 vs 27.3 + / - 2.0 , p less than 0.001 ) . mean arterial blood pressure increased in the experimental group concomitant with the administration of 100 % oxygen , but there was no correlation between final blood pressure and final tissue oxygen tension . 
end-stage renal disease -- is infrainguinal limb revascularization justified ? reports of reconstructive surgery for peripheral vascular disease have been relatively uncommon in patients with end-stage renal disease . between 1980 and 1989 , 39 patients with end-stage renal disease underwent revascularization of 56 limbs . fifty-two primary infrainguinal and four secondary infrainguinal bypass grafts were performed . in addition , nine thrombectomies were performed . at the time of surgery 37 patients were on dialysis ; three had functioning kidney transplants . the indications for revascularization were gangrene , rest pain , or ulceration in all except three limbs with disabling claudication . reversed , nonreversed , or in situ vein was used in 25 of the 52 primary infrainguinal revascularizations performed . polytetrafluoroethylene was used in 25 . two procedures used a combination of polytetrafluoroethylene and vein . the primary patencies for all infrainguinal procedures at 1 and 2 years were 77 % and 68 % , respectively . four perioperative deaths occurred in the infrainguinal group ( 7.7 % ) . an additional death occurred after thrombectomy for late graft closure . three deaths were a result of myocardial infarction . one patient on peritoneal dialysis developed uncontrolled sepsis . at 3 years 39 % of patients were alive , and 84 % of the limbs were salvaged . among the cases studied no group was identified that represented unacceptable operative risk . results compared well with reported patencies for patients subjected to infrainguinal revascularization procedures . limb revascularization in patients with end-stage renal disease may be performed by use of similar criteria to those used for other patients with peripheral vascular disease . 
carotid-subclavian bypass -- a decade of experience . from august 1979 to august 1989 , carotid-subclavian bypass or transposition procedures were performed on 18 women and 13 men ranging in age from 19 to 75 ( mean , 58.2 ) years . indications for surgery included symptoms of vertebrobasilar insufficiency in 16 ( 52 % ) , upper extremity ischemia in six ( 19 % ) , both vertebrobasilar insufficiency and extremity ischemia in four ( 13 % ) , and stroke and/or hemispheric transient ischemic attacks in four ( 13 % ) patients . one patient ( 3 % ) had angina pectoris caused by " coronary-subclavian steal . " formal bypass grafts were performed in 28 ( 90 % ) cases by means of polyterafluoroethylene ( 24 ) , dacron ( 2 ) , or saphenous vein ( 2 ) , and carotid-subclavian transposition was performed in three ( 10 % ) cases . synchronous procedures included carotid endarterectomy ( 4 ) , carotid-carotid bypass ( 1 ) , and axillobrachial bypass ( 1 ) . there was no operative mortality . thirty-day primary patency was 97 % . follow-up has ranged from 1 to 121 ( mean , 42 ) months . three grafts ( polytetrafluoroethylene ) have occluded during follow-up yielding long-term primary patency of 92 % at 5 years and 83 % at 8 years . relief of symptoms was initially achieved in 30 ( 97 % ) patients . recurrent symptoms have developed in six ( 20 % ) patients from 2 to 55 ( mean , 26 ) months after surgery , including two with occluded and four with patent grafts . symptom-free survival is 89 % at 1 year , 84 % at 2 years , and 71 % at 7 years of follow-up . six patients have died during follow-up yielding overall survival of 88 % at 5 years , and 48 % at 10 years . 
the role of carotid screening before coronary artery bypass . five hundred thirty-nine patients with no symptoms of cerebral ischemia undergoing coronary artery bypass were preoperatively evaluated for presence of carotid stenosis by noninvasive methods ( duplex scanning and ocular pneumoplethysmography-gee ) . overall prevalence of carotid stenosis greater than 75 % was higher ( 8.7 % ) than that generally reported . age greater than 60 years was significantly related to presence of carotid stenosis greater than 75 % ( 11.3 % vs 3.8 % , p = 0.003 ) . risk factors such as hypercholesterolemia , hypertension , diabetes mellitus , and smoking were not predictive for carotid stenosis , postoperative stroke , or death . carotid stenosis greater than 75 % ( odds ratio 9.87 , p less than 0.005 ) and coronary artery bypass redo ( odds ratio 5.26 , p less than 0.05 ) were both independent predictors of stroke risk . patients were divided into four groups : group 1 , minimal or mild degree of carotid stenosis ( less than 50 % ) , not submitted to prophylactic carotid endarterectomy ( 432 patients , 80.1 % ) ; group 2 , moderate degree of stenosis ( 50 % to 75 % ) , no prophylactic carotid endarterectomy ( 60 patients , 11.2 % ) ; group 3 , severe carotid stenosis ; ( greater than 75 % ) , submitted to prophylactic carotid endarterectomy ( 19 patients , 3.5 % ) , group 4 , severe carotid stenosis ( greater than 75 % ) no prophylactic carotid endarterectomy ( 28 patients , 5.2 % ) . patients in group 4 had significantly higher stroke rate ( 14.3 % ) compared to the other three groups ( 1.1 % ) ( p = 0.0019 ) . the finding of carotid stenosis greater than 75 % in patients over 60 years of age was associated with occurrence of stroke in 15 % of cases . carotid screening is helpful to determine patients at increased risk of stroke and should be performed in patients greater than 60 years . 
gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging in bell 's palsy . inflammation of the facial nerve in bell 's palsy can be demonstrated on gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging . we have studied a series of 17 bell 's palsy patients with gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging , and the purpose of this paper is to report our findings and discuss their significance . most acute bell 's palsy cases demonstrate facial nerve enhancement , usually in the distal internal auditory canal and labyrinthine/geniculate segments . other segments demonstrate enhancement less often . gadolinium enhancement occurs regardless of the severity of the paralysis and can persist after clinical improvement of the paralysis . the findings of this study corroborate other evidence that the segments of the facial nerve most often involved in bell 's palsy are the only segments that are most often enhanced with gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging . the role of gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging in the management of bell 's palsy patients is discussed . 
the surgical management of chronic parotitis . chronic parotitis is a disorder characterized by recurrent painful swelling of the gland with purulent sialorrhea . occasionally , the condition fails to respond to medical management and definitive surgical therapy is necessary . sialolithiasis is the usual etiology in cases of parotitis , although occasionally severe recurrent parotid infections are superimposed on underlying sjogren 's disease . total parotidectomy with facial nerve dissection has been used in such cases in our department and has proved to be an excellent way to manage this disease . a summary of our results indicate that the recurring infections were eradicated and that the complication rate is tolerable , considering the magnitude of the problem . we feel that it is better to use surgical management early rather than wait for the formation of fistulae or abscesses . 
the use of gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging to determine lesion site in traumatic facial paralysis . gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging has been used to evaluate 20 patients with surgically confirmed facial nerve lesions . when the nerve could be seen , gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging accurately revealed the lesion site as well as the known extent , which in some cases was not predicted by topognostic testing . this technique appears to provide accurate lesion-site testing and may have importance in surgical planning . currently used topognostic tests of facial nerve function are frequently inaccurate and can only determine the most proximal lesion site when there are multiple or extensive lesions . the focal nerve enhancement seen in nerve injury , globally increased signal intensity within the temporal bone after trauma , and increased signal intensity within the dura after surgery can occasionally mask nerve lesions and may be confused with tumors . 
allograft tympanoplasty : predictive value of preoperative status . the functional and anatomical results of a series of 181 consecutive allograft tympanoplasties for ears with drum perforation and an intact ossicular chain were retrospectively reviewed and related to preoperative factors . drum closure was realized in 92 % ( 166 of 181 cases evaluated 1 year after surgery ) , and 96.6 % of the reconstructed drums were still intact 3 years after surgery ( 118 cases evaluated ) . an air-bone gap of less than 21 db was reached in 79.6 % ( of a total of 162 cases ) 1 year after surgery , and in 78 % ( of a total of 118 cases ) 3 years after surgery . age , contralateral pathology , the wet or dry status of the ear preoperatively , and the preoperative air-bone gap had no influence on anatomical results . the preoperative air-bone gap did not predict the postoperative air-bone gap . the influence of age and existence of contralateral pathology on hearing gain was only visible in some of the strictly defined patient groups . the wet preoperative status of the ear generally predicted lower functional gain . 
a palmar dermatosis linked to occult carcinoma of the upper thorax , head and neck : bazex 's syndrome and tripe palm . an unusual , persistent , corregated-to-honeycombed thickening of the palms accompanied by tenderness around the fingernails was found to be a cutaneous marker for internal malignancy . this combination of signs and symptoms has been reported under two clinical entities : bazex 's syndrome and tripe palm . this paraneoplastic syndrome is of interest to head and neck surgeons due to the location of the primary tumor , the site of metastatic disease , and the ability to cure the cutaneous disease by surgical removal of the primary tumor . in our patient , a squamous cell carcinoma of the lung not detectable on chest x-ray presented as a cervical mass accompanied by cutaneous changes on the palms and fingernails . recognition of the relationship of the dermatologic changes to malignancy of a specific body region eventually led to the detection of the primary tumor . the characteristics of these paraneoplastic syndromes were reviewed in this report . 
isolated congenital stapes ankylosis : surgical results in 32 ears and a review of the literature . isolated congenital stapes ankylosis is described in 32 operated ears from 28 patients . in 27 ears , a regular stapedectomy was performed . in the remaining 5 ears , 2 had stapes gushers , 2 had bony stapedial tendons , and 1 had an aberrant facial nerve crossing the oval window . the average individual hearing gain was 20 db . the mean hearing gain for the 24 successful stapedectomies was 29 db . in 24 of 32 ears ( 75 % ) , an essential hearing gain of at least 15 db fletcher 's index hearing threshold could be achieved . a fletcher 's index not exceeding 30 db could be achieved in 19 of 32 ears ( 60 % ) , in spite of several cases with a sensorineural component in the hearing loss . a review of the literature and overview of longer series with isolated congenital stapes ankylosis is presented . 
a computerized laboratory alerting system . a computerized laboratory alerting system ( clas ) has been developed as part of an ongoing effort to improve the quality of care at lds hospital . the system identifies potentially life-threatening conditions on the basis of laboratory findings and then generates appropriate warnings and transmits them to clinicians . use of the system has led to a significant increase in the proportion of patients in life-threatening situations who have received appropriate care ( 50.8 % before implementation vs. 62.5 % afterward , p less than 0.05 ) . among patients with hypokalemia , falling potassium levels , hyperkalemia , hypokalemia during treatment with digoxin , hyponatremia , falling sodium levels , hypernatremia , hypoglycemia , or hyperglycemia , the average length of time spent in the life-threatening situation has decreased from 30.4 to 15.7 hours ( p less than 0.05 ) and the average length of stay has decreased from 14.6 to 8.8 days ( p less than 0.05 ) . there has been little change in the proportion of patients with findings indicating metabolic acidosis who have received appropriate care ( 32.3 vs. 34.6 % ) . we conclude that clas has an important role in patient care at our hospital . 
acute syphilitic posterior placoid chorioretinitis . six patients with evidence of secondary syphilis presented with visual loss in both eyes caused by large , placoid , yellowish lesions with faded centers at the level of the pigment epithelium in the macula and juxtapapillary areas . all eyes had vitreitis . all of the lesions showed a similar fluorescein angiographic pattern of early hypofluorescence and late staining . five patients had mucocutaneous lesions typical of secondary syphilis . all five patients treated with antibiotics had prompt improvement in visual function and resolution of the fundus lesions . the ophthalmoscopic and angiographic appearance of these posterior fundus lesions was sufficiently characteristic to suggest a diagnosis of secondary syphilis . modification of the host response to syphilis by human immune deficiency virus ( hiv ) infection may be partly responsible for this peculiar fundus picture . three of the four patients tested positive for hiv . 
indications and results of relaxing retinotomy . the authors report their results of a consecutive series of 40 eyes undergoing relaxing retinotomy during vitrectomy to achieve retinal reattachment for the following indications : proliferative vitreoretinopathy ( pvr ) , 21 eyes ( 52 % ) ; trauma , 10 eyes ( 25 % ) ; diabetic retinopathy , 6 eyes ( 15 % ) ; and expulsive choroidal hemorrhage , 3 eyes ( 8 % ) . thirty eyes ( 75 % ) had undergone previous vitreoretinal procedures . extended tamponade was achieved in all cases with either silicone oil ( 27 eyes , 68 % ) or long-acting gas ( 13 eyes , 32 % ) . retinotomy size ranged from 45 degrees to 360 degrees . intraoperative retinal attachment was possible in all eyes with 33 ( 83 % ) achieving total or subtotal retinal attachment including the macula for 5 months or more . twenty-seven eyes ( 68 % ) achieved 3/200 visual acuity or better and 10 ( 37 % ) achieved 20/400 or better . thirteen eyes ( 32 % ) failed to achieve 3/200 visual acuity secondary to recurrent detachment ( 18 % ) , corneal decompensation ( 8 % ) , macular dysfunction ( 5 % ) , and glaucoma ( 3 % ) . 
extensive peripheral retinectomy combined with posterior 360 degrees retinotomy for retinal reattachment in advanced proliferative vitreoretinopathy cases . posterior 360 degrees retinotomy in conjunction with extensive peripheral retinectomy was necessary for retinal reattachment in 18 eyes . a visual acuity of 20/400 or better was achieved in 22 % of the patients ; in patients with rubeosis , regression was found in 89 % . of the hypotonus eyes , preoperatively 78 % were normotensive postoperatively after removal of anterior proliferative vitreoretinopathy ( pvr ) covering ciliary epithelium . the major intraoperative complication was hemorrhage , which could be readily controlled . recurrent retinal detachment ( rd ) occurred in 39 % and reproliferation in 50 % of the patients . 
experimental retinal branch vein occlusion in miniature pigs induces local tissue hypoxia and vasoproliferative microangiopathy . in miniature pigs , retinal veins were experimentally occluded using argon laser coagulation . microvascular modifications leading to retinal hemorrhages and retinal edema were observed some hours after the occlusion . these lesions resolved progressively within 3 weeks after the occlusion , but in most cases ischemic retinal territories persisted . preretinal partial pressure of oxygen ( po2 ) measurements , using double barrelled o2-sensitive microelectrodes , showed that all the ischemic areas were indeed hypoxic . in half of the experiments , preretinal and intravitreal new vessels grew on the ischemic territories . tissue hypoxia appears to be a key step in triggering neovascularization . however , the critical level of hypoxia was not determined . 
scatter photocoagulation restores tissue hypoxia in experimental vasoproliferative microangiopathy in miniature pigs . experimental retinal branch vein occlusion using argon laser photocoagulation in miniature pigs induced the development of ischemic retinal territories associated with preretinal neovascularization . preretinal partial pressure of oxygen ( po2 ) measurements on the ischemic territories , using o2-sensitive microelectrodes , established that the ischemic retinal areas were hypoxic . scatter photocoagulation of these ischemic hypoxic territories restores the local po2 to the normal values within 2 weeks . hence , the reported inhibitory effect of photocoagulation on the development of retinal neovascularization could be due to a reversal effect on tissue hypoxia . 
computed tomography in the assessment of the postenucleation socket syndrome . to gain a deeper insight into the cause of the postenucleation socket syndrome , high-resolution computed tomography ( ct ) was performed in 22 anophthalmic patients before insertion of an intraorbital implant . the anatomy of the normal and the anophthalmic orbits was compared . computed tomographic scans were made either in the sagittal and the coronal plane or in the sagittal and transverse plane . the authors discovered a sagging and retraction of the superior muscle complex and a downward and forward redistribution of orbital fat . finally , an upward displacement of the distal end together with a retraction of the inferior rectus muscle was found . these phenomena were measured and appear to cause a rotatory displacement of orbital contents from superior to posterior and from posterior to inferior which is best demonstrated in the sagittal plane . this redistribution of orbital contents can explain the sequelae of the anophthalmic orbit . no signs of orbital fat atrophy could be demonstrated . with this knowledge , the proper treatment of patients with a postenucleation socket syndrome is ascertained . 
evaluating hematuria in children . where to start and how to proceed . bleeding from somewhere along the urinary tract is not unusual in children . of the many causes , systemic infection and trauma are among the most common . history taking and physical examination should be careful and complete , because the results obtained help direct the laboratory evaluation . diagnostic testing always begins with urinalysis but may progress to intravenous urography , voiding cystourethrography , endoscopic procedures in the upper and lower urinary tract , sonography , arteriography , or renal biopsy . some cases remain unexplained and require follow-up to assess renal function . 
hypothermia . safe and efficient methods of rewarming the patient . hypothermia , a relatively common problem in the winter months , can cause significant morbidity . it presents in a variety of situations and affects a wide age range . diagnosis requires a high index of suspicion , because the symptoms , which are primarily related to the central nervous system , are not distinctive . appropriate management requires accurate measurement of core body temperature . treatment is centered on rewarming the patient safely and efficiently while providing other supportive measures . care should be taken to avoid arrhythmias . simple precautions greatly reduce the risk of hypothermia . 
the efficacy of methylprednisolone in reducing flap edema . it has been suggested that systemic steroids reduce postoperative flap edema . this has been poorly documented by several reports based on subjective clinical observations . in an effort to provide quantitative data on methylprednisolone and edema , a flap edema model in the rat was developed based on the inferior epigastric vessels . significant edema developed after 48 hours . differing intraoperative doses of methylprednisolone were studied , producing a dose-response curve . a single low dose of intraoperative steroid is effective in reducing flap edema ; previously recommended doses are probably excessive . 
treatment of chronic facial palsy by transplantation of the neurovascularized free rectus abdominis muscle . we performed neurovascularized free rectus abdominis muscle transplantations in two patients with chronic facial palsy . in one patient , the postoperative course was uneventful , but the patient died from rupture of esophageal varices . in the other patient , both morphologic and functional results were satisfactory . therefore , the rectus abdominis muscle is considered to be a suitable donor for muscle transplantation for the treatment of chronic facial palsy . the rectus abdominis muscle is advantageous in that ( 1 ) simultaneous operations by two teams are possible with the patient in the supine position , ( 2 ) it is supplied by long nerves and long and large vessels , ( 3 ) it is flat and consists of segments with appropriate lengths , ( 4 ) the force and distance of contraction are appropriate , and ( 5 ) the tendinous intersections are suitable for anchoring sutures . 
simplified technique for isolating vascularized rib periosteal grafts . a modified technique for obtaining a vascularized rib periosteal segment utilizing the posterolateral approach is presented . the technique avoids the inclusion of a large muscle cuff or the pleura around the isolated rib segment and therefore minimizes donor-site morbidity and chest complications previously associated with this approach . 
mucocele of the cystic duct remnant in eight liver transplant recipients : findings at cholangiography , ct , and us . the case histories and radiologic studies of eight liver transplant recipients who developed a mucocele of the allograft cystic duct remnant were retrospectively evaluated . all patients had clinical and/or laboratory evidence of biliary obstruction or cholangitis from 2 weeks to 3.3 years following transplantation . cholangiographic , ultrasound ( us ) , and computed tomography ( ct ) images were available for review in eight , five , and four patients , respectively . cholangiograms demonstrated an extrinsic mass compressing the common hepatic duct in seven of eight patients . us and ct showed fairly well - to well-defined round fluid collections adjacent to the common hepatic duct in three and two patients , respectively . the findings of this study suggest that the detection at cholangiography of an extrinsic mass compressing the common hepatic duct appears to be specific for a mucocele of the allograft cystic duct remnant . ct and us images may offer confirmatory evidence . 
colonic stenoses : use of oral barium when retrograde flow is completely obstructed on barium enema studies . forty patients with complete obstruction to retrograde barium flow on barium enema examinations , without clinical or radiographic evidence of obstruction , were studied further with orally administered barium in the same session . all patients had undergone aborted double-contrast barium enema studies and had received antispasmodics intramuscularly before the examination . the authors describe the technique , as well as the clinical and radiologic findings , that allows the safe ingestion of oral barium in patients with stenotic lesions of the colon . in all patients , oral barium passed through the small bowel and the stenotic site in an average of 148 minutes , with no complications . in seven patients , there were synchronous lesions in the colon and small bowel , and the findings were determined better with oral barium studies in 19 patients . if a barium enema study is done and retrograde passage of barium is obstructed by a lesion in the left side of the colon , additional diagnostic information can be obtained by giving the patients oral barium . this practice is safe if precise criteria are applied . 
acute splenic sequestration crisis in two adults with sickle cell disease : us , ct , and mr imaging findings . acute splenic sequestration crisis ( assc ) is a rare complication in adults with sickle cell disease that is diagnosed clinically by means of sudden splenic enlargement and a rapid fall in hematocrit . two cases of assc in adults with heterozygous sickle cell disease ( sickle cell-thalassemia and sickle cell-hemoglobin c disease ) were studied with use of duplex doppler ultrasound ( us ) , computed tomography ( ct ) , and magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging . in both cases , us showed patency of the splenic vein and multiple hypoechoic lesions on the periphery of an enlarged spleen that were of low attenuation on ct scans and hyperintense on both t1 - and t2-weighted mr images . these findings were believed to be suggestive of subacute hemorrhage . this was confirmed pathologically in one case and suggested in the other by the presence of a low-signal-intensity ring , probably hemosiderin , surrounding one of the lesions . also , the remainder of the spleen in both patients was of normal signal intensity , unlike the diminished signal intensity seen in patients with homozygous sickle cell disease . further study is needed to determine the role of imaging in the diagnosis and treatment of assc . 
hepatic infarction in preeclampsia . two cases of hepatic infarction in toxemia of pregnancy are described . both patients had associated laboratory findings of the hellp syndrome ( hemolytic anemia , elevated liver enzyme levels , and low platelet levels ) . computed tomography ( ct ) showed nonenhancing low-attenuation areas varying in configuration from peripheral , well-defined , wedge-shaped lesions to larger abnormalities . magnetic resonance imaging showed a corresponding area of low signal intensity on t1-weighted images with high signal intensity on t2-weighted images . ultrasound showed several well-defined peripheral hypoechoic areas . the low attenuation and lack of enhancement on ct scans and the absence of mass effect are the key distinguishing features . 
hypertrophic pyloric stenosis : volumetric measurement of nasogastric aspirate to determine the imaging modality the authors postulated that volumetric measurement of residual gastric aspirate in neonates and infants with nonbilious projectile vomiting could enable differentiation between patients with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis ( hps ) and those with gastroesophageal reflux ( ger ) and help to determine whether ultrasound ( us ) or fluoroscopy of the upper gastrointestinal tract would best confirm the diagnosis . in the 38 patients ( all but two of whom had been fasting for 3-4 hours ) , 10 ml or more of nasogastric aspirate was considered indicative of obstruction . hps occurred in 91.7 % of patients with 10 ml of aspirate or more , whereas ger occurred in 85.7 % of patients with less than 10 ml . the differences between the two groups were statistically significant . solely on the basis of residual volume ( greater than or equal to 10 ml ) , the cause of vomiting could be differentiated , prior to standard radiologic studies , 89.4 % of the time . it is concluded that patients with projectile vomiting who have 10 ml or more of residual aspirate in the stomach should undergo us for confirmation of hps ; those with less than 10 ml should undergo fluoroscopy for confirmation of ger . 
penetrating aortic ulcers : diagnosis with mr imaging . the authors studied seven patients with penetrating aortic ulcers with use of magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging . all patients were evaluated for acute chest symptoms , and the presence of aortic ulcers was confirmed by means of angiography in all seven patients . five patients also underwent computed tomography ( ct ) . three patients underwent surgical repair of the thoracic aorta . mr findings included intramural hematoma and focal aortic wall ulceration in four patients , focal ulceration in one , focal intramural hematoma in one , and focal intramural hematoma with rupture in one . the diagnosis of intramural hematoma was made by the detection of increased signal intensity on t1 - and t2-weighted mr images . mr imaging was superior to angiography in depicting the extent of intramural thrombus , although one ulceration diagnosed at angiography was missed at mr imaging . mr imaging was superior to ct in differentiating acute intramural hematoma from atherosclerotic plaque and chronic intraluminal thrombus , although it did not depict displaced intimal calcification in one patient with extensive intramural hematoma . 
obstructive jaundice : use of expandable metal endoprosthesis for biliary drainage . work in progress . expandable metal endoprostheses were implanted transhepatically in 61 patients with obstructive jaundice . fifty-three patients had malignant and eight had benign obstructions . because of the small diameter of the compressed stent ( 7 f ) , primary implantation of the stent without a previous catheter drainage was preferred . postprocedural complications occurred in three patients ( 5 % ) ( biliary pleuritis , peritonitis , hepatic artery aneurysm ) . the 30-day mortality rate was 8.2 % . reocclusions were observed in six of the patients with malignant obstructions ( 11 % ) ( observation period , 1-10 months ; mean , 4.5 months ) and in two of the patients with benign stenoses ( 25 % ) ( observation period , 3-21 months ; mean , 9 months ) . the higher reocclusion rate of benign obstructions must be interpreted with care because of the small number of patients . from their preliminary experience , the authors conclude that expandable metal endoprostheses offer patency rates equal to those of plastic stents . the implantation trauma is reduced due to the small 7-f introducing catheter system . 
hilar malignancy : treatment with an expandable metallic transhepatic biliary stent . an expandable metallic transhepatic biliary endoprosthesis was used to treat 20 patients with hilar malignancy and isolated right and left intrahepatic ducts . in 12 patients , only one intrahepatic ductal system was drained ; in eight patients , both systems were drained . in five patients , both systems were drained through a single transhepatic track by arrangement of two stents in a t configuration . the initial technical success rate in placing the stents and achieving internal drainage was 100 % . complications necessitating further intervention occurred in two of the 20 patients . short-term clinical follow-up was available for 19 of the 20 patients . two months after stent insertion , two patients complained of persistent jaundice , two patients died without jaundice , and 15 patients were free of symptoms of biliary obstruction . a variety of geometric configurations are possible with this endoprosthesis . the relative merits of these stent arrangements are discussed , and a new technique for placing the stents in a t configuration is described . 
rotator cuff lesions : signal patterns at mr imaging . the signal intensity patterns of rotator cuff lesions at magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging were evaluated in 80 patients who had surgical correlation and in 13 asymptomatic individuals ( 14 shoulders ) . six cadaver shoulders were examined with mr , and histologic correlation was obtained in four . all studies were performed at 1.5 t with a flexible circular surface coil . the accuracy of mr imaging in detection of full-thickness cuff tears ( 31 patients ) was 0.95 and of partial thickness tears ( 16 patients ) , 0.84 . the most common and accurate pattern for full-thickness cuff tears ( 22 of 31 tears ) was a region of intense signal seen on t2-weighted images . less often the torn region consisted of an extremely degenerated and attenuated tendon with moderate signal intensity or was obscured by low-signal-intensity scar . the intense signal pattern on t2-weighted images was also accurate , although a less common finding ( seven of 16 cases ) , in the diagnosis of partial tears . tendinitis was recognized as focal or diffuse regions of increased signal intensity or a nonhomogeneous pattern of increased signal often associated with tendinous enlargement . in some patients , manifestations of subacromial-subdeltoid bursitis was present . tendon degeneration was also manifested as regions of increased signal intensity . some similarity and overlap of signal patterns of partial interstitial tears , tendinitis , and tendon degeneration are observed . 
widespread inflammatory response to osteoblastoma : the flare phenomenon . a case of vertebral osteoblastoma caused a diffuse , reactive inflammatory infiltrate in two vertebrae , adjacent ribs , and the paraspinous soft tissues . the authors call this the flare phenomenon . on magnetic resonance images the diffuse inflammatory response caused a misleading appearance that simulated a malignant process ( lymphoma or ewing sarcoma ) . a computed tomographic myelogram was diagnostic . 
mapping of herpes simplex virus-1 neurovirulence to gamma 134.5 , a gene nonessential for growth in culture . the gene designated gamma 134.5 maps in the inverted repeats flanking the long unique sequence of herpes simplex virus-1 ( hsv-1 ) dna , and therefore it is present in two copies per genome . this gene is not essential for viral growth in cell culture . four recombinant viruses were genetically engineered to test the function of this gene . these were ( i ) a virus from which both copies of the gene were deleted , ( ii ) a virus containing a stop codon in both copies of the gene , ( iii ) a virus containing after the first codon an insert encoding a 16-amino acid epitope known to react with a specific monoclonal antibody , and ( iv ) a virus in which the deleted sequences were restored . the viruses from which the gene was deleted or which carried stop codons were avirulent on intracerebral inoculation of mice . the virus with the gene tagged by the sequence encoding the epitope was moderately virulent , whereas the restored virus reacquired the phenotype of the parent virus . significant amounts of virus were recovered only from brains of animals inoculated with virulent viruses . inasmuch as the product of the gamma 134.5 gene extended the host range of the virus by enabling it to replicate and destroy brain cells , it is a viral neurovirulence factor . 
emergency portosystemic shunt in patients with variceal bleeding . thirty-five patients for whom emergency sclerotherapy or conservative treatment , or both , failed to arrest variceal bleeding , or who had early rebleeding and required emergency portosystemic shunts ( epss ) were studied . epss permanently controlled the variceal bleeding in all but one patient . in this patient , the shunt was patent as demonstrated by angiography . esophageal varices disappeared in 18 patients and were reduced in 14 . three patients died before the endoscopic examination could be performed . the causes of death were hepatic failure in two and bleeding ulcerations of the gastric fundus in the other patient . one patient was classified in child 's category b and two in child 's category c. thirty-two patients submitted to epss and were discharged alive . twelve of these patients subsequently died , at an average of 11.2 months after undergoing the shunt procedure . four of 12 patients died of hepatic failure ; two patients died of hepatomas ; two , other neoplasia ; three , hemorrhaging duodenal ulcers , and one patient , renal failure . analysis of actuarial survival rates showed that the five year survival rate was 43 per cent . the long term survival rates were fewer for patients with child 's category c than for those with combined child 's categories a and b ( five year survival rates were 21 versus 55 per cent ; p less than 0.05 ) . during the follow-up period , none of the patients had variceal bleeding . chronic encephalopathy developed in six , which was mild in three , moderate in one instance and severe in two . it developed soon after epss , with onset in the first month after discharge in three . thus , when conservative treatment fails to arrest variceal bleeding , epss should be performed to guarantee definitive control of hemorrhage and prolong the survival period . 
long term survival and severe rebleeding after variceal sclerotherapy . of 197 consecutive patients with cirrhosis admitted because of bleeding from esophageal varices , 133 were included in a prospective study of elective sclerotherapy . we evaluated the incidence of extensive rebleeding and mortality rate . the period of study was 54 months and the mean follow-up period was 21 months . forty-one patients had severe rebleeding and a majority of the episodes occurred during the first year . only four patients had more than five sessions of sclerosis when rebleeding occurred . the probability rate for patients to be free of severe rebleeding after 48 months , according to pugh 's classification , was 88 per cent for those with grade a , 50 percent for grade b and 43 percent for grade c. the over-all mortality rate was 38.8 per cent ( 53 patients ) , with the highest rate noted during the first year . the mortality rate of patients with severe rebleeding was much higher than that of those who did not rebleed . kaplan-meier survival analysis at four years was 52 per cent , and survival rates in relation to pugh 's classification were 73 per cent for a , 53 per cent for b and 34 per cent for c. differences between the three groups were statistically significant . therefore , because of the high mortality rate associated with patients with cirrhosis and extensive rebleeding during the first year , it is important to achieve , as soon as possible , eradication of esophageal varices . 
carotid endarterectomy for chronic retinal ischemia . carotid arterial disease may result in a variety of ischemic ocular problems that can eventually lead to permanent blindness . from 1984 to 1988 , 18 patients underwent reconstruction of the carotid artery in an attempt to restore normal retinal arterial flow and , thereby , reverse or prevent progression of ischemic oculopathy . during a mean period of 21 months after carotid arterial reconstruction , subjective improvement in vision as well as a resolution in eye and periorbital pain was reported in 87.5 per cent of the patients . measured visual acuity improved or stabilized in 94.4 per cent ; macular photostress recovery times improved in 87.5 per cent , funduscopic examinations noted improvement or resolution in ischemic signs in 93.3 per cent and intraocular pressures improved in two of three patients . one patient experienced recurrent episodes of amaurosis fugax , which resolved after two weeks and did not recur . a second patient experienced an increase in intraocular pressures with visual deterioration , required laser photocoagulation after which the condition of the patient stabilized but only after significant visual impairment . carotid arterial reconstruction is effective for the treatment of ischemic oculopathy and is most beneficial if performed early , before the onset of irreversible neovascular glaucoma . 
simplified technique for control of femoral arterial bleeding after coronary angioplasty . a method of achieving arterial control by inserting an embolectomy catheter through the femoral introducer sheath in the patient with femoral arterial bleeding after ptca is described herein . this approach allows quick control with less dissection and negligible blood loss . 
the hazards of surgical glove dusting powders . surgical contaminants of many kinds , including glove powder , constitute a source of formation of granulomas . this is particularly well-documented in the peritoneal cavity ( " starch peritonitis " ) , but has been documented in most anatomic sites . the production of starch-free gloves should remove this hazard , but the surgeon should remain aware that most particulate substances introduced into the body inevitably set up an inflammatory response . 
how and why aztreonam works . aztreonam is the first monocyclic beta-lactam antibiotic ( monobactam ) to be tested clinically . its synthetic structure determines specific areas of activity , including enhanced activity against pseudomonas species , exceptional activity against gram-negative bacteria , stability to beta-lactamases and lack of activity against gram-positive bacteria -- all of which can be directly related to its chemical composition . aztreonam has a high affinity for the protein-binding protein 3 ( pbp-3 ) of aerobic gram-negative bacteria . most of these organisms are inhibited and killed at low concentrations of the drug . aztreonam binds poorly to pbp sites of the aerobic gram-positive and anaerobic bacteria and consequently has relatively poor inhibitory effects against these bacteria . in vitro , minimum inhibition concentration ( mic ) values against almost all of the enterobacteriaceae and against neisseria and haemophilus strains are typically below 1 microgram per milliliter . mic values against pseudomonas aeruginosa of 8 micrograms per milliliter are comparable with those of other antipseudomonal beta-lactams and the acylureidopenicillins . as combination therapy with amino-glycosides , aztreonam acts in synergy against p. aeruginosa , acinetobacter and gentamicin-resistant gram-negative rods . aztreonam is widely distributed in the body tissues and fluids , and the average elimination half-life is 1.7 hours . intramuscular dosing results in peak serum levels in approximately one hour , while intravenous dosing results in peak levels within five minutes . after a 2 gram dose given intravenously , mic90 values for most of the enterobacteriaceae are exceeded for eight hours , and those for p. aeruginosa , for almost six hours . the steady-state volume of distribution is approximately 0.18 liter per kilogram . concentrations above the mic90 for most gram-negative bacteria are also present within bone , prostate and cerebrospinal fluid . between 60 and 70 per cent of the drug is excreted unchanged in the urine , resulting in concentrations approximating 3,000 micrograms per milliliter two hours after a 1 gram dose given intravenously . serum clearance of aztreonam is directly proportional to creatinine clearance . dosage adjustment must , therefore , be made in the presence of reduced clearance . dosing varies between 0.5 and 2.0 grams every six to 12 hours , depending on the severity of the infection . the characteristics of aztreonam suggest that it is a useful nonnephrotoxic drug for treatment of aerobic gram-negative infection . 
aminoglycosides : assessing the potential for nephrotoxicity . although aminoglycosides have been a mainstay of antibiotic therapy in postsurgical infections , certain patients may be at risk for potential aminoglycoside induced toxicities . aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity is one of the most frequent causes of iatrogenic renal failure . a narrow toxicity to therapeutic ratio , a relatively long serum half-life and concentration in the renal cortex all contribute to renal dysfunction . patients at greatest risk for aminoglycoside-induced nephrotoxicity include the elderly , patients with pre-existing renal disease and those who are volume depleted . calculations based on the results of a multicenter study demonstrate that the average additional cost incurred for each patient who had aminoglycoside-related nephrotoxicity was $ 2,501 . methods are reviewed for prospectively assessing the potential for development of nephrotoxicity to identify patients for whom effective therapeutic substitutes for aminoglycosides should be sought . 
pathogenesis and treatment of intra-abdominal infection . intra-abdominal infection is considered potentially life-threatening . such infection is frequently secondary to perforated viscera , trauma or inflammatory disease . simple abscesses may be drained percutaneously with roentgenologic guidance ; complex abscesses often require open surgical drainage . secondary peritonitis is usually polymicrobial ; broad-spectrum antimicrobial therapy effective against aerobic and anaerobic gram-negative bacteria , as well as gram-positive organisms , is essential . newer antibiotics , administered either singly or in combination , have been used successfully to treat intra-abdominal infection while avoiding the toxicity of aminoglycosides . 
diagnosis and treatment of pneumonia in the surgical intensive care unit [ published erratum appears in surg gynecol obstet 1991 apr ; 172 ( 4 ) :324 ] it is often difficult to detect the onset of parenchymal pulmonary infection ( pneumonia ) in a surgical intensive care unit ( sicu ) setting . clinical and laboratory parameters that usually indicate the presence of pneumonia , such as fever , elevated white blood cell count and abnormal sputum culture , may also be present in patients with nonpneumonic infection . prompt diagnosis is particularly important for patients in sicu because the mortality rate associated with pneumonia in these patients may be as high as 50 per cent . in the sicu setting , pneumonia is best diagnosed using well-defined roentgenologic criteria . treatment should consist of a broad-spectrum antibiotic regimen to which all sputum pathogens are sensitive . such a regimen significantly reduces the mortality rate for patients with pneumonia in an sicu setting . aztreonam has been found to be as effective against susceptible gram-negative bacilli as traditional agents , such as the aminoglycosides , and to have a significantly milder side effect profile . 
antifungal therapy and its use in surgical treatment . modern surgery continues to make significant therapeutic advances , and a major component in the adjunctive care allowing these improved procedures is the successful use of broad-spectrum antibacterials . however , the widespread administration of potent antibacterials and the frequent use of a variety of catheters , along with an increase in the number of immune compromised patients requiring invasive procedures , have allowed deep-seated mycoses to become more common . nosocomial fungal infections are frequent , particularly in the urinary tract and in the blood . this rise in identified fungal infections , along with frequent empiric treatment of suspected infection , has significantly increased amphotericin b therapy in surgical services in the last five years . while amphotericin b remains the standard for treatment of nosocomial mycoses , other antifungal agents are available ( flucytosine , miconazole , ketoconazole and fluconazole ) . despite experience with the older agents and the development of new agents , many questions remain concerning the use of currently available antifungal treatments in postsurgical patients . the following discussion attempts to summarize the magnitude of the problem , the difficulties with diagnosis and laboratory evaluations , the characteristics of the antifungal agents and particular problems with antifungal treatment in surgery . 
effects of 1.32-micron nd-yag laser on brain thermal and histological experimental data . considering that the 1.32-microns nd-yag laser should have physicothermal properties close to those of the co2 laser , a series of experiments were conducted on rat cortex ( n = 51 ) . three laser wavelengths were compared : co2 laser ( 10.6 microns ) , 1.06-microns nd-yag , and 1.32-microns nd-yag lasers . for each shot , temperature measurements were recorded with an infrared thermographic videocamera . the digitized signals were figured as thermal profiles and temperature developments . ninety-five shots were correctly studied and analyzed : co2 , n = 29 ; 1.06-microns nd-yag , n = 20 ; 1.32-microns nd-yag , n = 46 . the histological lesions produced by these three lasers were compared on animals killed 24 hours ( n = 20 ) , 8 days ( n = 20 ) , and 30 days ( n = 5 ) after the laser impacts . for equivalent densities of energy , the depth of cortical necrosis was comparable for the co2 laser ( 200-250 microns ) and the 1.32-microns nd-yag laser ( 210-260 microns ) whatever the date of death ; the 1.06-microns nd-yag laser shots were responsible for much more important damage ( 400-550 microns ) . because of its important absorption in water and nervous tissue , the authors consider the 1.32-microns nd-yag laser most suitable for neurosurgery , particularly because it is conducted through optic fibers , and therefore is easy to handle during neurosurgical procedures . 
brain abscess associated with congenital pulmonary arteriovenous fistula . a case of brain abscess associated with congenital pulmonary arteriovenous fistula was presented and 52 reported cases were reviewed . the brain abscess was successfully treated with repeated aspiration and drainage , and the pulmonary arteriovenous fistula , located in the right lower lobe , was resected . the arteriovenous fistula occurs as a common pulmonary manifestation of hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia ; however , no symptoms suggesting these two were noted in this case . brain abscesses can be an initial clinical manifestation in asymptomatic pulmonary arteriovenous fistula . this possible association should be borne in mind in cases of brain abscesses of unexplained etiology . 
controversies in the treatment of streptococcal pharyngitis an increasing number of cases of sore throat caused by group a beta-hemolytic streptococci occur with concomitant colonization by organisms that may " protect " the streptococci through beta-lactamase inactivation of penicillin at the site of infection . the failure of penicillin to eradicate many of these bacteria , which include staphylococcus aureus , haemophilus influenzae , moraxella ( branhamella ) catarrhalis and a multitude of pharyngeal anaerobes , may help to explain why penicillin is sometimes ineffective for acute and recurrent group a streptococcal infections . therapeutic alternatives currently include cephalosporins , erythromycin , rifampin combined with penicillin , amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium and others . 
infectious mononucleosis in older adults . infectious mononucleosis as a manifestation of primary epstein-barr virus infection occurs uncommonly in adults over age 40 . while fever is almost universal , older patients with the disease often present without lymphadenopathy , pharyngitis , splenomegaly , lymphocytosis or atypical lymphocytes . jaundice and hepatomegaly occur more commonly in older patients than in adolescents and create diagnostic confusion . often , infectious mononucleosis in this age group is confused with lymphoma , leukemia or biliary obstruction , or is classified as " fever of unknown origin . " . 
usefulness of antithrombotic therapy in resting angina pectoris or non-q-wave myocardial infarction in preventing death and myocardial infarction ( a pilot study from the antithrombotic therapy in acute coronary syndromes study group ) . in a prospective pilot trial of antithrombotic therapy in the acute coronary syndromes ( atacs ) of resting and unstable angina pectoris or non-q-wave myocardial infarction , 3 different antithrombotic regimens in the prevention of recurrent ischemic events were compared for efficacy . ninety-three patients were randomized to receive aspirin ( 325 mg/day ) , or full-dose heparin followed by warfarin , or the combination of aspirin ( 80 mg/day ) plus heparin and then warfarin . trial antithrombotic therapy was added to standardized antianginal medication and continued for 3 months or until an end point was reached . analysis , by intention-to-treat , of the 3-month end points , revealed the following : recurrent ischemia occurred in 7 patients ( 22 % ) after aspirin , in 6 patients ( 25 % ) after heparin and warfarin , and in 16 patients ( 43 % ) after aspirin combined with heparin and then warfarin ; coronary revascularization occurred in 12 patients ( 38 % ) after aspirin , in 12 patients ( 50 % ) after heparin and warfarin , and in 22 patients ( 60 % ) after aspirin combined with heparin and then warfarin ; myocardial infarction occurred in 1 patient ( 3 % ) after aspirin , in 3 patients ( 13 % ) after heparin and warfarin , and in no patient after aspirin combined with heparin and then warfarin ; no deaths occurred after aspirin or after aspirin combined with heparin and then warfarin , but 1 patient ( 4 % ) died after warfarin alone ; major bleeding occurred in 3 patients ( 9 % ) after aspirin , in 2 patients ( 8 % ) after heparin and warfarin , and in 3 patients ( 8 % ) after aspirin combined with heparin and then warfarin . recurrent myocardial ischemia occurred at 3 + / - 3 days after randomization . 
usefulness of tomographic thallium-201 imaging for detection of restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . the role of tomographic thallium-201 exercise and redistribution imaging in the detection of restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) was evaluated in 116 patients : 61 ( 53 % ) with 1 - and 55 ( 47 % ) with multivessel ptca , with a total of 185 dilated vessels . complete revascularization was performed in 89 ( 77 % ) and partial revascularization in 27 ( 23 % ) of the patients . restenosis was angiographically demonstrated in 69 ( 60 % ) of the patients and 85 ( 46 % ) of the vessels 6.4 + / - 3.1 months after ptca . disease progression in previously normal vessels was noted in 11 patients . the results were : ( 1 ) for detection of restenosis in the group of patients , single-photon emission computed tomographic ( spect ) versus exercise electrocardiographic sensitivity was 93 vs 52 % ( p less than 0.001 ) , specificity 77 vs 64 % , and accuracy 86 vs 57 % ( p less than 0.001 ) . the results were similar in the complete and partial revascularization groups . ( 2 ) spect was 86 % sensitive , specific and accurate for restenosis detection in specific vessels with comparable results for 1-versus multivessel ptca and complete versus partial revascularization . sensitivity , specificity and accuracy were : 89 , 95 and 92 % for the left anterior descending coronary artery ; 88 , 79 and 82 % for the right coronary artery ; and 76 , 83 and 85 % for the left circumflex coronary artery . eighty-one percent of the diseased nondilated vessels were correctly identified . ( 3 ) disease progression to greater than 50 % stenosis was detected with 91 % sensitivity , 84 % specificity and 85 % accuracy . spect thallium-201 imaging is an excellent tool for the detection of restenosis and disease progression after ptca in the settings of 1 - and multivessel angioplasty and complete and partial revascularization . 
prevalence and correlates of increased lung/heart ratio of thallium-201 during dipyridamole stress imaging for suspected coronary artery disease . there is little information concerning the prevalence and clinical correlates of increased pulmonary thallium-201 uptake during dipyridamole thallium-201 stress imaging . accordingly , the clinical characteristics and quantitative thallium-201 findings were correlated with quantitative lung/heart thallium-201 ratio in 87 patients undergoing dipyridamole thallium-201 stress testing . nineteen patients ( 22 % ) had an elevated ratio ( greater than 0.51 ) . these patients were more likely to have had an infarction , to be taking beta blockers , and have a lower rate-pressure product after dipyridamole administration than those with a normal ratio ( p less than 0.03 ) . an elevated ratio was associated with a greater likelihood of initial , redistribution and persistent defects , as well as left ventricular cavity dilatation on thallium-201 imaging ( p less than 0.05 ) . in addition , the number of myocardial segments demonstrating initial , redistribution and persistent defects was also greater in patients with increased ratios ( p less than 0.03 ) . multivariate analysis demonstrated that the presence of redistribution and left ventricular cavity dilatation were the most significant correlates of lung/heart thallium-201 ratio . it is concluded that the prevalence of increased lung/heart thallium-201 ratio with dipyridamole thallium-201 stress imaging is similar to that seen with exercise stress imaging . as with exercise thallium-201 imaging , increased pulmonary thallium-201 uptake may be a marker of functionally more significant coronary artery disease . 
sudden death behind the wheel from natural disease in drivers of four-wheeled motorized vehicles . the heart was studied in 30 persons who died suddenly from natural causes in the driver 's seat of an automobile , truck or bus . twenty had cardiac arrest while driving and the other 10 while sitting in the driver 's seat of a parked vehicle . of the 20 drivers , 16 died from atherosclerotic coronary artery disease ( cad ) : 12 ( 75 % ) had minor collisions and 4 did not . of the 16 with fatal cad , an average of 2.3 + / - 0.8 of the 4 major coronary arteries were narrowed greater than 75 % in cross-sectional area ( csa ) by plaque ; of 668 five-mm segments of the 4 major ( right , left main , left anterior descending , left circumflex ) coronary arteries in 13 of these 16 cases , 27 ( 4 % ) were narrowed 96 to 100 % and 127 ( 19 % ) were narrowed 76 to 95 % in csa by plaque . the remaining 4 drivers died from noncoronary conditions : aortic rupture associated with the marfan syndrome in 1 ; cardiac sarcoidosis in 1 ; thoracic aortic dissection in 1 ; and severe mitral regurgitation from infective endocarditis , which had healed in 1 . the other 10 persons were found dead in the driver 's seat of a parked vehicle and 8 of them had fatal cad . of the 8 cad victims , an average of 2.5 + / - 1.2 of the 4 major coronary arteries was narrowed greater than 75 % by plaque ; of the 283 five-mm segments of coronary arteries in 7 of the 8 cases , 44 ( 16 % ) were narrowed 96 to 100 % and 69 ( 24 % ) were narrowed 76 to 95 % in csa by plaque . 
importance of hemodynamic response to therapy in predicting survival with ejection fraction less than or equal to 20 % secondary to ischemic or nonischemic dilated cardiomyopathy . to identify patients with left ventricular ejection fractions less than 20 % who are likely to survive on tailored medical therapy after referral to transplantation , this study of 152 patients addressed the hypotheses that ( 1 ) severely elevated filling pressures initially measured at referral would not necessarily predict poor outcome , ( 2 ) survival would be best when low pulmonary wedge pressures could be achieved with therapy tailored for hemodynamic goals , and ( 3 ) coronary artery disease would be an independent risk factor for early mortality . despite an average initial ejection fraction of 0.15 , cardiac index of 2.0 liters/min/m2 and pulmonary artery wedge pressure of 28 mm hg , the actuarial survival with tailored therapy was 63 % at 1 year , with 34 of 41 ( 83 % ) deaths occurring suddenly . survival was not related to initial filling pressure elevation , but was best predicted by the pulmonary artery wedge pressures during therapy ; patients achieving pressure of less than or equal to 16 mm hg had 1-year survival of 83 vs 38 % ( p = 0.0001 ) . the other independent predictors were serum sodium and coronary artery disease . patients with high filling pressures during therapy and coronary artery disease had 21 % survival at 1 year . survival after referral to transplantation with an ejection fraction less than or equal to 20 % is better than previously described . patients in whom left ventricular filling pressures can not be adequately reduced by tailored therapy , particularly if coronary artery disease is present , should be considered for early transplantation . 
use of auscultation to follow patients with mitral systolic clicks and murmurs . mitral systolic clicks and murmurs together with associated symptoms constitute a major reason for cardiologic referral . although echocardiography with doppler study enables characterization of the mitral valve apparatus and quantification of regurgitation , its use has resulted in an overemphasis of the technical diagnosis of mitral valve prolapse and an undervaluation of diagnosis based on physical examination . to determine the clinical significance of an auscultatory classification of mitral systolic clicks with or without precordial systolic murmurs , 1 consultant 's medical records of 291 patients with these signs were reviewed . based on initial auscultatory findings , patients were divided into : ( 1 ) single or multiple apical systolic clicks with no murmur ( n = 99 ) ; ( 2 ) single or multiple apical systolic clicks and a late systolic murmur ( n = 129 ) ; and ( 3 ) single or multiple apical clicks and an apical pansystolic murmur or murmur beginning in the first half of systole ( n = 63 ) . the average duration of patient follow-up was 8 years ( range 1 to 30 ) . the prognosis was excellent for patients from all 3 classes . two cardiac-related deaths occurred : 1 each from classes 1 and 2 . mitral valve surgery was performed in 3 class 2 patients ( 2 % ) and in 2 class 3 patients ( 3 % ) . no patients developed endocarditis during follow-up . palpitations , with varying anxiety overlay , constituted a major indication for cardiologic referral in all 3 classes . auscultatory findings were valuable to the physician for explanation and relief of patient anxiety . for patient management , use of an auscultatory classification may be preferable to the technically generated term " mitral valve prolapse . " . 
ki67 index and s-phase fraction in human breast carcinomas . comparison and correlations with prognostic factors . in a prospective study of 148 consecutive breast adenocarcinomas , proliferative indices of the same surgical tumor sample were performed by immunohistologic staining ( ki67 index ) with the use of the ki67 monoclonal antibody , which binds to a nuclear antigen only expressed in cycling cells , and by flow cytometry-derived s-phase fraction ( spf ) . measurable ki67 and spf indices were obtained in 142 cases and 99 cases , respectively , and in 96 cases by both methods . in aneuploid tumors , a significant but low ( p less than 0.05 , r = 0.3 ) relationship was observed between ki67 index and spf . when compared with clinical , pathologic , and biochemical parameters these two proliferative indices were shown to be associated with nuclear grading and mitotic index . additionally , correlations were observed between ki67 index and node involvement ( p less than 0.02 ) and between spf and estrogen receptors ( p = 0.002 ) . these results show that ( 1 ) proliferative indices are obtained in 96 % of surgical samples with ki67 versus 67 % with spf and that ( 2 ) ki67 index and spf may provide complementary data with respect to prognosis . 
cytologic features of poorly differentiated ' insular ' carcinoma of the thyroid , as revealed by fine-needle aspiration biopsy . the authors report on the cytologic features of six cases of poorly differentiated " insular " carcinoma ( ic ) of the thyroid , a recently described variety of thyroid tumor intermediate between well-differentiated and anaplastic neoplasms . it is characterized by trabecular and/or alveolar growth patterns , merging with follicular areas , and by the absence of pleomorphism in the tumor cells . fine-needle aspiration biopsy ( fnab ) materials ( both smears and cell-block preparations ) from six patients were reviewed after the diagnosis of ic was confirmed on the surgical specimen . the following cytologic features were consistently found : high cellularity and necrotic background ; low grade of atypia ; trabeculae and/or clusters , possibly associated with microfollicles , of cells with poorly defined cytoplasm ; and cytoplasmic vacuoles containing thyroglobulin . nuclear inclusions and grooving of the nuclear surface were additional features . preoperative diagnosis suggestive of ic might be of value for planning surgical treatment and subsequent therapy . 
unusual variants of adrenal pseudocysts with intracystic fat , myelolipomatous metaplasia , and metastatic carcinoma . five previously unreported cases of adrenal pseudocysts are described that demonstrate a wider range of histologic appearances than has been previously recognized in these lesions . one pseudocyst removed from an asymptomatic 59-year-old female contained intracystic nests of cytologically malignant cells of unknown origin . workup revealed a left breast mass , which on biopsy showed an infiltrating ductal carcinoma with neoplastic cells that were cytologically similar to those found within the cyst contents . four other pseudocysts are described with variable numbers of intracystic vascular structures and benign adrenal cortical cells . in addition , intracystic mature adipose tissue was observed in all four cases , with myelolipomatous metaplasia found in one . awareness of the wide histologic variability of these lesions should improve diagnostic accuracy and allow distinction from adrenocortical neoplasia and myelolipoma . 
strategy for breakpoint cluster region analysis in chronic myelocytic leukemia in a routine clinical laboratory . despite the increasing reliance on breakpoint cluster region ( bcr ) determinations in diagnosis of chronic myelocytic leukemia ( cml ) , few reports have dealt with the practical aspects of specimen analysis . in the setting of a routine molecular diagnostics laboratory , samples from 68 patients with active cml were evaluated for bcr rearrangements , with the use of a variety of enzymes and two probes . the data have been used to develop an efficient strategy for bcr screening and breakpoint determination . screening with the universal bcr ( ubcr ) probe on xba i and bgi ii digests yielded bcr rearrangements in 100 % of the ph1-positive patients and three of the seven ph1-negative patients , giving bcr analysis a sensitivity of 100 % . a single-enzyme screen using the ubcr probe would have resulted in a false negative rate of 10 % . the false negative rate was determined during the breakpoint site analysis from additional digests hybridized to both the 3 ' and ubcr probes . the false negative rate for the 3 ' probe was 26.5 % , because of deletions or 5 ' rearrangements . the method of breakpoint site determination was dependent on screening results . in 78 % of cases , one additional hybridization with two enzyme digests was required . during breakpoint site analysis , a rare false negative result was also demonstrated with bam hi and eco ri . this screening strategy has made bcr analysis competitive with cytogenetic analysis at the authors ' institution ; although turnaround time may be slightly longer , bcr analysis can yield information ( such as detecting bcr-positive/ph1-negative patients and determining breakpoint site ) that can not be obtained by cytogenetics . 
multiple myeloma and acute megakaryoblast leukemia in spent phase polycythemia vera . the spontaneous and simultaneous occurrence of multiple myeloma and megakaryoblast leukemia with myelodysplastic features in a case of spent phase polycythemia vera is well documented . in support of the morphologic characteristics of the bone marrow , immunocytologic studies show proliferation of monoclonal plasma cells and megakaryoblasts . the cytogenetic findings of 20q - and unbalanced t ( 1 ; 7 ) are consistent with myelodysplastic and leukemic transformation of the bone marrow . these transformations expand observations on variable and spontaneous lineage commitments as the consequence of alterations of the hematopoietic stem cell clone . these data are in support of the changing insights in hematopoiesis as a process of ordered commitment of the stem cell with sequential lineage potentials . 
cytomegalovirus infections in pediatric liver transplantation . from 1986 to 1989 , 26 consecutive pediatric liver transplant recipients were followed up at the hospital for sick children , toronto , canada . the patients were reviewed to assess the incidence of infection with cytomegalovirus , the severity of disease , and the relationship of recipient and donor serostatus to cytomegalovirus disease . overall , the incidence of infection was 54 % ( 14/26 ) . over 90 % of patients who were seropositive or whose donors were seropositive developed evidence of cytomegalovirus infection after transplantation . forty-three percent ( 6/14 ) of those with cytomegalovirus infections developed severe , fatal cytomegalovirus disease , despite treatment with immunoglobulins and ganciclovir ( syntex laboratories inc , palo alto , calif ) or foscarnet sodium ( astra , pharmaceutical products inc , westborough , mass ) . of all posttransplant deaths , two thirds were associated with severe cytomegalovirus infection . cytomegalovirus-related deaths occurred in three of four seronegative patients with seropositive donors and three of six seropositive patients with seropositive donors . therefore , a seropositive donor appeared to be a major risk factor for severe cytomegalovirus disease . 
effects of pill-giving on maintenance of placebo response in patients with chronic mild depression fifty outpatients with mild , chronic , mood-reactive depression whose mood improved markedly after a 10-day single-blind placebo trial were randomly assigned in a double-blind design either to have their placebo medication discontinued or to have it maintained for an additional 6 weeks . half of the patients in each condition relapsed within 6 weeks , indicating that pill-taking itself does not influence maintenance of placebo response . placebo response was more likely to be maintained in patients who were currently married . at the end of 3 months , the overall relapse rate was 58 % . the authors raise questions about the utility of the initial 10-day placebo washout in antidepressant clinical trials , and they discuss limits on the generalizability of their findings . 
outcome of patients with chronic affective disorder : a five-year follow-up . patients with major depression , mania , or schizo-affective disorder that had been present without remission for 2 years or more at intake ( n = 129 ) were followed prospectively for 5 years , as were 580 patients who had been ill for shorter periods at intake . despite very substantial durations of episode , three-quarters of the chronic patients recovered , although recovery occurred much later in the follow-up period than it did among the nonchronic patients . factors associated with recovery were less severe illness at intake , lack of psychotic features , good friendship patterns in adolescence , and , most important , a relatively high maximum level of functioning in the 5 years preceding intake . 
late luteal phase dysphoric disorder in young women . the authors determined the prevalence of late luteal phase dysphoric disorder in 217 university women aged 17-29 years . unaware of the focus on premenstrual syndrome ( pms ) , the participants rated dsm-iii-r symptoms of late luteal phase dysphoric disorder over 90 days . using a 30 % or greater premenstrual change as an index of luteal variation , the authors found that 10 women ( 4.6 % ) met the symptom criteria during two menstrual cycles . compared to 25 young women seeking treatment for pms who met the same diagnostic criteria , the 10 women from the university sample reported significantly less fatigue and impaired concentration and somewhat less severe depression and overall symptoms . 
sudden death from acute cocaine intoxication in virginia in 1988 . a review of medical examiners ' autopsy records revealed that in 1988 , 33 residents of virginia died of acute cocaine intoxication . the subjects were 19 to 45 years old ; most were men , used cocaine intravenously , and used other toxic substances with the lethal dose of cocaine . 
significance of u wave polarity in patients with a prior inferior myocardial infarction . sixty consecutive patients who underwent coronary angiography and left ventriculography from six to eight weeks after the onset of definite inferior myocardial infarction were divided into three groups according to the polarity of u waves in ( 1 ) leads ii , iii , a vf and ( 2 ) in leads v4 to v6 ( positive = group p , flat or isoelectric = group f , and negative = group n ) . the following parameters were analyzed : ( 1 ) ecg score ; ( 2 ) global ejection fraction : ( 3 ) regional area change : ( 4 ) number of asynergic , and akinetic segmental radii ; ( 5 ) number of asynergic and akinetic areas : and ( 6 ) number of diseased coronary arteries and the incidence of left anterior descending artery ( lad ) disease . there were no significant differences among the three groups according to the polarity of u waves in two subgroups by the site of u waves in age , gender , systemic blood pressure , and ecg scores . the polarity of u waves in leads ii.iii.a vf ( subgroup 1 ) correlated with the size of myocardial infarction ; regional area changes in inferior segment ( area 2 ) were 64.1 + / - 8.2 in group p1 , 31.8 + / - 14.7 in group f1 , and 21.0 + / - 15.8 in group n1 ( p less than 0.01 , f = 32.8 ) . the polarity of u waves in leads v4-6 ( subgroup2 ) correlated with anterolateral wall motion ; regional area changes in anterolateral segments ( area 5 ) were 76.8 + / - 11.6 in group p , 66.5 + / - 18.5 in group f , and 48.9 + / - 17.1 in group n ( p less than 0.01 , f = 18.6 ) . the incidence of multivessel disease increased from group p2 ( 36.4 % ) , to group f2 ( 54.5 % ) , to group n2 ( 75.0 % ) , and the incidence of lad disease increased from 27.3 % , to 45.5 % , to 68.8 % , respectively . a negative u wave in either location suggested severely decreased apical wall motion , and there was a tendency for global ejection fractions to decrease in the following order : group p , group f , and group n. from these results , the authors conclude that the polarity of u waves may be one of the parameters correlating with the wall motion and left ventricular function in prior inferior myocardial infarction . 
conduction system injury after aortic valve dilation in the dog single - versus double-balloon catheters . the range of morbidity induced by valvuloplasty is not fully known , but transient conduction disturbances are common . the authors performed aortic valve balloon dilatation on 10 closed-chest dogs with normal aortic valves , using a femoral cutdown approach and fluoroscopic guidance . four were done with a single 15 mm balloon catheter , and in the other 6 two 12 mm balloon catheters were used . balloons were inflated to 5 to 12 atms pressure with contrast solution . after several inflations the dogs were sacrificed , the hearts removed and examined . gross examinations revealed subendocardial hemorrhage in the outflow tract in 5 of the 6 in which double balloons had been used . microscopically , all aortic valve areas showed hemorrhage , mostly in loose connective tissues of the valve leaflets . the severity of injury appeared greater when two balloons had been used . histologic examination showed definite injury to the myocytes of the left bundle branch in all 6 of the double-ballooned dogs , but in none of those subjected to the single-balloon procedure . during aortic valve dilation the only manifestation of conduction system injury was prolongation of the qrs complex in 3 of the 6 dogs in which a double-balloon catheter had been used . the results suggest that electrocardiographic conduction disturbances observed in patients undergoing aortic valvuloplasty may be the result of direct injury of conduction tissue and may be more likely to occur when larger balloons are used . 
mast cell heterogeneity in chronic idiopathic urticaria . patients with chronic urticaria are more sensitive to codeine skin testing than other allergic individuals . nonlesional skin in most patients with chronic urticaria was found to contain increased numbers of both total and atypical mast cells . the presence of increased mast cell density was found to correlate with the degree of clinical ( dermatographism ) and functional ( codeine skin test ) skin sensitivity . 
intraocular lens complications . the authors implanted intraocular lenses ( iol ) in 780 eyes and considered complications of this surgery , dividing the complications into intraoperative and postoperative , the latter early and late . the most frequent intraoperative complications were : hyphema , vitreous injury , pupil deformation with an iol in the anterior chamber ( ac ) , and hyphema and corneal lesions with an iol in the posterior chamber ( pc ) . among the early postoperative complications of an iol in the ac the authors noticed striate keratopathy and uveal flare and postoperative transitory ocular hypertension and striate keratitis with an iol in the pc . moreover , in late postoperative complications in ac implantation they observed : cystoid macular edema , bullous keratitis , retinal detachment , late uveitis , opacification of posterior capsule , eccentric displacement of the iol , and less frequently , cystoid macular edema in pc implantations . the authors prefer iol implantation in the pc after extracapsular cataract extraction , since this surgery causes less problems in the cornea , vitreous , and retina . 
effect of bleomycin on hematoporphyrin derivative phototherapy of solid tumors . hematoporphyrin derivative phototherapy ( hpd-pt ) has been successfully used to localize and treat superficial squamous cell cancers . bleomycin sulfate is a glycopeptide antibiotic that has antineoplastic properties against squamous cell cancers . because both hpd-pt and bleomycin chemotherapy are accepted forms of treatment for squamous cell cancer and their cytotoxicity is mediated by singlet oxygen and oxygen radicals , we studied the possibility of enhancing the response of solid tumors to hpd-pt by combining this modality with systemic bleomycin chemotherapy in a murine tumor model . bleomycin did not enhance hpd-pt significantly . also , we are not confident that hpd-pt alone or in combination with other agents can eradicate solid tumors ; it certainly did not in this syngeneic murine tumor model . 
platysma myocutaneous flap for repair of hypopharyngeal strictures . hypopharyngeal strictures , either isolated or in conjunction with laryngeal and esophageal strictures , can occur following lye ingestion . extensive stricture formation requires reconstruction to create a functional funnel system that empties below the cricoid . esophageal replacement is not a substitute for adequate hypopharyngeal reconstruction . the pectoralis major muscle is often inadequate , because it yields too much bulk and often leads to continued aspiration . the platysma myocutaneous flap for hypopharyngeal reconstruction has not been previously reported . the inferiorly based platysma myocutaneous flap was used in two of our patients with lye burns , and bilateral superiorly based flaps were used in one . all are able to eat normally and have no significant stenosis . the platysma myocutaneous flap is a relatively simple and reliable alternative that is within the capability of every head and neck surgeon . 
idiopathic sudden sensorineural hearing loss and postnatal viral labyrinthitis : a statistical comparison of temporal bone findings . although the cause of idiopathic sudden sensorineural hearing loss remains uncertain , a viral origin has been suggested in many cases on the basis of anamnestic microbiologic and pathologic data . twenty-two temporal bone specimens from 18 patients who during life suffered a sudden partial or complete sensorineural hearing loss were studied . on the basis of clinical data , these cases were assigned to one of three diagnostic categories , and the temporal bones were studied by light microscopy and serial section analysis . the implications of the histopathologic findings for the pathogenesis of idiopathic sudden sensorineural hearing loss are discussed . 
immunohistochemical study of cytokeratin expression in normal and pathologic middle ear mucosa of the rat . the expression of cytokeratins in the epithelium of the middle ear and external auditory meatus of the rat was studied on cryosections of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid-decalcified specimens by use of a panel of monoclonal antibodies . the normal middle ear epithelium revealed a complex cytokeratin profile , including regional differences . the induction of sterile middle ear effusions resulted in increased cytokeratin expression . infective effusions were accompanied by both quantitative and qualitative changes in the cytokeratin expression patterns . the differences observed between the cytokeratin profiles of external meatal skin and those of middle ear epithelium may form a useful tool for research into cholesteatoma development . 
muscle involvement in the scleroderma syndromes . muscle involvement was identified in 14 patients with scleroderma or a connective tissue disease overlap syndrome with predominant features of scleroderma . patients presented with symmetrical proximal weakness indistinguishable from other inflammatory myopathies . creatine kinase and electromyography were useful to demonstrate muscle involvement . muscle histopathology demonstrated primarily the vasculopathy of scleroderma or polymyositis in similar numbers of patients . scleroderma vasculopathy and polymyositis generally occur without specificity to diffuse scleroderma , the calcinosis , raynaud 's phenomenon , esophageal dysmotility , sclerodactyly , telangiectasia syndrome , or an overlap syndrome with arthritis . polymyositis also occurs when the vasculopathy of scleroderma involves other organ systems . 
toxic shock syndrome associated with use of latex nasal packing . we treated a previously healthy young man who developed toxic shock syndrome 2 days after elective septoplasty with nonabsorbent latex packing . this case emphasizes that non-menstrual wound-associated toxic shock syndrome can occur after surgery that does not involve absorbent splinting or packing and should be considered in patients who present within a few days after surgery with fever , sunburnlike rash , hypotension , and multisystem complaints and laboratory abnormalities . 
intrahepatic cholestasis due to hypersensitivity reaction to procainamide . hypersensitivity reactions to procainamide involving liver dysfunction are rare . we describe a patient who developed liver dysfunction after procainamide administration , manifested by fever , jaundice , elevated bilirubin concentration , and alkaline phosphatase concentration . hepatobiliary scintigraphy demonstrated good hepatic uptake of the radionuclide without movement from hepatic parenchyma . to our knowledge , this is the first reported case of procainamide-induced intrahepatic cholestasis as demonstrated by radionuclide hepatobiliary scintigraphy . 
three-year outcomes for maintenance therapies in recurrent depression . we conducted a randomized 3-year maintenance trial in 128 patients with recurrent depression who had responded to combined short-term and continuation treatment with imipramine hydrochloride and interpersonal psychotherapy . a five-cell design was used to determine whether a maintenance form of interpersonal psychotherapy alone or in combination with medication could play a significant role in the prevention of recurrence . a second question was whether maintaining antidepressant medication at the dosage used to treat the acute episode rather than decreasing to a " maintenance " dosage would provide prophylaxis superior to that observed in earlier trials in which a maintenance dosage strategy was employed . survival analysis demonstrated a highly significant prophylactic effect for active imipramine hydrochloride maintained at an average dose of 200 mg and a modest prophylactic effect for monthly interpersonal psychotherapy . we conclude that active imipramine hydrochloride maintained at an average dose of 200 mg is an effective means of preventing recurrence and that monthly interpersonal psychotherapy serves to lengthen the time between episodes in patients not receiving active medication . 
delta sleep ratio . a biological correlate of early recurrence in unipolar affective disorder . slow wave sleep abnormalities have long been described in depression but were considered to be nonspecific indicators of psychopathology . computerized techniques , including amplitude frequency measures and spectral analyses , are permitting new approaches to the examination of delta sleep . early studies suggested that many depressed patients demonstrate lower delta wave intensity during the first non-rapid eye movement period than the second one . this finding , prominent in middle-aged depressed patients , has led to an examination of the ratio between the first and second non-rapid eye movement periods . this delta sleep measure seems to be a more robust predictor of recurrence than rapid eye movement latency . analysis of data on 74 patients in a long-term maintenance treatment study for a minimum of 24 months demonstrates that the delta sleep ratio can predict survival time following discontinuation of drug treatment . individuals with a high delta sleep ratio remain clinically remitted five times longer than those with a low delta sleep ratio . 
outcome in mania . a 4-year prospective follow-up of 75 patients utilizing survival analysis . a 4-year follow-up of 75 patients was conducted to investigate outcome after recovery from an episode of mania . predictors of an unfavorable outcome included poor occupational status prior to index episode , history of previous episodes , history of alcoholism , psychotic features and symptoms of depression during the index manic episode , male gender , and interepisode affective symptoms at 6 months ' follow-up . the mortality risk during the follow-up period was 4 % . the identification of specific risk factors depended on the definition of outcome and the length of follow-up . 
longitudinal study of diagnoses in children of women with unipolar and bipolar affective disorder . school-age children of unipolar depressed , bipolar , chronically medically ill , or normal women were diagnosed every 6 months for up to 3 years . offspring of unipolar women had the highest rates of disorder at all evaluations , but children of bipolar and medically ill mothers also experienced significant rates of disorder . observing diagnoses from both past lifetime and prospective follow-up assessments , it appeared that most children who had diagnoses had onsets in preadolescence and continued a chronic or intermittent course of disorder . thus , risk to offspring of ill mothers is not transitory and indicates a pernicious course that commonly includes effective disorders alone or in combination with behavior and anxiety disorders . 
altered waveform of plasma nocturnal melatonin secretion in premenstrual depression . the nocturnal secretion of plasma melatonin was determined under dim to dark conditions in eight patients with prospectively confirmed premenstrual syndrome and in eight age - and menstrual cycle phase-matched normal control subjects . plasma samples for melatonin were collected every 30 minutes from 6 pm to 9 am during the early follicular , late follicular , midluteal and late luteal phases of the menstrual cycle . compared with normal controls , patients with premenstrual syndrome had an earlier ( phase-advanced ) offset of melatonin secretion , which contributed to a shorter secretion duration and a decreased area under the curve . no statistically significant differences were found between women with premenstrual syndrome and normal controls for melatonin onset or peak concentration , or for estradiol or progesterone levels . the data demonstrate that women with premenstrual syndrome have chronobiological abnormalities of melatonin secretion . the fact that these patients respond to treatments that affect circadian physiology , such as sleep deprivation and phototherapy , suggests that circadian abnormalities may contribute to the pathogenesis of premenstrual syndrome . 
barotrauma associated with high-frequency jet ventilation for hypoxic salvage . most reports describe reduction in proximal airway pressures with high-frequency jet ventilation . this led us to speculate that high-frequency jet ventilation might reduce barotrauma by providing alveolar ventilation at lower airway pressures . we describe a group of patients in whom a high incidence of barotrauma was observed after institution of high-frequency jet ventilation despite reduction in measured airway pressures . fifteen hypoxic patients who could not be treated with conventional ventilation and who had no roentgenographic evidence of barotrauma were entered into the study . airway pressures were measured during conventional ventilation and at 2 and 24 hours after high-frequency jet ventilation . despite significant reduction in peak inspiratory and mean airway pressures , pneumothorax developed in seven of the 15 patients , an average of 21 hours after initiation of high-frequency jet ventilation . five patients had bilateral pneumothorax and three developed tension pneumothorax . despite reductions in proximal airway pressures , barotrauma is a significant potential complication of high-frequency jet ventilation in patients with noncompliant lungs . we currently place bilateral prophylactic thoracostomy tubes in patients with adult respiratory distress syndrome prior to initiation of high-frequency jet ventilation . 
amelioration of cholinergic-induced pancreatitis with a selective cholecystokinin receptor antagonist . acute edematous pancreatitis follows excessive cholinergic stimulation in patients exposed to anticholinesterase-containing insecticides . we describe the role of cholecystokinin and the benefits of cholecystokinin receptor blockade in this form of pancreatitis . a cholinergic mimetic ( carbachol ) was administered to rats weighing 300 to 350 g and produced a form of edematous pancreatitis that mimics that seen in humans . animals received carbachol intraperitoneally , either alone ( 250 micrograms/kg of body weight ) or with cholecystokinin-receptor antagonist devazepide ( 3 mg/kg of body weight ) and were killed 4 hours later . carbachol administration resulted in a 19 % increase in pancreatic weight , a fourfold increase in serum amylase levels , and a 14-fold increase in serum lipase levels . plasma cholecystokinin levels , however , were not altered . devazepide administered prior to cholinergic hyperstimulation blocked pancreatic weight increase and reduced elevations in serum amylase levels twofold and lipase levels fourfold . although cholecystokinin levels are not elevated in this model of pancreatitis , blockade of even low , background concentrations of this regulatory peptide is beneficial . 
percutaneous catheter drainage of infected pancreatic and peripancreatic fluid collections . operative drainage is the cornerstone of therapy for pancreatic abscess . recently it has been suggested that successful percutaneous catheter drainage of infected pancreatic and peripancreatic fluid collections may serve as definitive therapy . we undertook therapeutic , computed tomography-directed percutaneous drainage in a selected group of 29 patients with infected pancreatic and peripancreatic fluid collections . twenty-three patients ( 79 % ) were successfully treated with percutaneous drainage . of six patients ( 21 % ) representing failures of percutaneous drainage , four died and two recovered after operative drainage . the four patients who died had a mean apache ( acute physiology and chronic health evaluation ) ii score of 23 and five of ranson 's prognostic signs . ranson 's signs and apache ii scores were predictive of success and mortality . we conclude that in selected patients , infected pancreatic and peripancreatic fluid collections can be treated definitively with therapeutic percutaneous catheter drainage . based on this experience , recommendations regarding patient selection are included . 
does somatostatin analogue prevent experimental acute pancreatitis ? because somatostatin is a potent inhibitor of pancreatic secretion , we hypothesized that pretreatment with somatostatin analogue octreotide ( sms 201-995 ) might prevent cerulein-induced edematous pancreatitis . we studied 18 rats prepared with jugular vein catheters . the following agents were administered intravenously to groups of four rats for 6 hours : 1 ml/h ( control ) crystalloid solution ; 1-microgram/kg bolus then 1 microgram/kg per hour of octreotide ; and 5 micrograms/kg per hour of cerulein ; also , in a fourth group of six rats , octreotide and cerulein were administered simultaneously . at the end of experiments , blood was drawn for plasma amylase determinations ; rats were killed and pancreata were examined . supramaximal cerulein administration to conscious rats induced hyperamylasemia and edematous pancreatitis , confirming previous observations ; in both groups of rats receiving cerulein , there was prominent interstitial edema , acinar vacuolization , and mild-to-moderate acute inflammation . while octreotide pretreatment of rats with cerulein-induced acute pancreatitis was associated with a lesser increase of wet pancreas weight and plasma amylase concentration , there was little overall benefit of octreotide pretreatment in this form of experimental acute pancreatitis . 
venous hemodynamics in a chronic venous valvular insufficiency model . to develop a large-animal model of chronic venous valve incompetence , 13 greyhound dogs underwent unilateral hindlimb venous valve lysis with a valve cutter apparatus pulled retrograde through the iliac , femoral , and lateral saphenous veins . bilateral venous pressures in the lateral saphenous vein were recorded before valve lysis , immediately after valve lysis , and at intervals from 1 to 14 weeks after valve lysis , with the dogs in the supine position and elevated 80 degrees semierect , as well as after stimulated hindlimb muscle contraction to empty the hindlimb veins . passive venous filling time with elevation and 90 % venous refilling time after muscle contraction were calculated . from immediately after through 14 weeks after valve lysis , a shortened venous filling time and 90 % venous refilling time as well as an elevated poststimulation venous pressure were noted . this valve lysis method successfully produced a hemodynamically verified model of venous valvular insufficiency . 
cardiac risk in vascular surgery . the oral dipyridamole-thallium stress test . the value of the oral dipyridamole-thallium stress test in identifying patients at high risk of myocardial infarction after vascular procedures has not been documented . we studied prospectively 46 patients who underwent an oral dipyridamole-thallium stress test before undergoing vascular operations . twenty patients ( 43 % ) had a positive test result , defined by a thallium defect with reperfusion , while 26 patients had a negative test result . myocardial infarctions were documented postoperatively in 5 ( 25 % ) of 20 of the group with positive results and 1 ( 4 % ) of 26 of the group with negative results . three of the six myocardial infarctions were clinical ; all three were in the group with positive results . no correlation was identified between dipyridamole-thallium stress test results and clinical cardiac history . a positive dipyridamole-thallium stress test result is a more sensitive predictor of postoperative myocardial infarction than ejection fraction or history of coronary artery disease . the oral dipyridamole-thallium stress test is as useful as the intravenous test in this setting . 
the natural history of intimal flaps in a canine model . the natural history of arterial intimal flaps has not been well defined . this study characterizes the natural history of unrepaired intimal flaps . thirty-nine 1 - , 2 - , and 3-mm hemispheric , distally based intimal flaps were made in 4 - to 5-mm diameter canine femoral and carotid arteries . twenty arteries had 2 - and 3-mm intimal flaps and were monitored for short-term arterial thrombosis and flap extension . nineteen had 1 - and 2-mm intimal flaps and were monitored for thrombosis , long-term development of neointimal hyperplasia , arterial stenosis , and persistence of the flap . while 40 % of the arteries with 3-mm intimal flaps developed thrombosis in 3 to 5 days , only 3 % of the arteries with 1 - or 2-mm intimal flaps developed thrombosis . most 1 - to 2-mm intimal flaps resolved and the subsequent development of neointimal hyperplasia or arterial stenosis was minimal . arteries with hemodynamically significant stenoses from intimal flaps warrant repair , while arteries with smaller intimal flaps may not require repair . 
surgical aspects of sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis . sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis ( sep ) is associated with the administration of beta-blocking agents as well as continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . the predisposing factors in the latter group are recurrent peritonitis , presence of acetate in the dialysate , and antiseptics used during bag exchanges . we report a case of sep following chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis and review the literature on this benign yet potentially lethal condition . sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis frequently leads to intestinal obstruction , small-bowel necrosis , enterocutaneous fistulas , and malnutrition . there is a high incidence of anastomotic failure when a resection and primary intestinal anastomosis is performed in patients with sep . although sep is not commonly reported in the surgical literature , its importance to surgeons is indicated by the fact that the overall mortality rate is close to 60 % in patients with sep who develop surgical complications . 
antibodies to epstein-barr virus in iridocorneal endothelial syndrome . antibody titers to epstein-barr virus were determined in 13 patients with iridocorneal endothelial syndrome and in 13 healthy race - , age - , and sex-matched controls . both the geometric mean titer of igg antibodies to the epstein-barr virus capsid antigen and the proportion with high titers of igg antibodies to the epstein-barr virus capsid antigen ( greater than or equal to 1:640 ) were significantly higher in 12 seropositive patients with iridocorneal endothelial syndrome than in 12 seropositive controls ( 1/761 :1 / 202 , p = .001 ; 83.3 % :8.3 % , p less than .001 ) . ten of 12 seropositive patients with iridocorneal endothelial syndrome and five of 12 seropositive controls had antibodies to epstein-barr virus-induced early antigens ( greater than or equal to 1:10 ) ( fisher 's exact test , p less than .05 ) , while four seropositive patients with iridocorneal endothelial syndrome and one seropositive control had low to undetectable levels of antibodies to epstein-barr virus-associated nuclear antigen ( less than or equal to 1:5 ) ( p greater than .1 ) . antibody levels to cytomegalovirus or measles virus were not different between patients with iridocorneal endothelial syndrome and controls . additional studies showed no evidence of humoral immune disorder or collagen vascular disease in the patients with iridocorneal endothelial syndrome . the serologic profiles suggest that the patients with iridocorneal endothelial syndrome examined had a cellular immune abnormality sufficient to permit reactivation of latent epstein-barr virus infection and imply , but do not establish , a role for epstein-barr virus infection in the pathogenesis of some cases of the iridocorneal endothelial syndrome . 
visualization of acute pulmonary emboli by transesophageal echocardiography . this report describes a patient who became hypoxic and hypotensive while awaiting cardiac surgery . an urgent transesophageal echocardiogram in the operating room showed a mass at the junction of the main and right pulmonary arteries consistent with thrombus . the thrombus was removed surgically , and the patient then had a successful aortic valve replacement . transesophageal echocardiography is therefore useful in the evaluation of the critically ill patient . 
severe tricuspid regurgitation after mitral valve repair : diagnosis by intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography . transesophageal echocardiography facilitates the evaluation of valvular repair in the operating room . the functional valvular morphology and degree of valvular regurgitation can be assessed before and after repair . this technique can also identify unsuspected findings -- in this case , severe tricuspid regurgitation complicating cardiopulmonary bypass . we report a previously undescribed cause of traumatic tricuspid regurgitation . 
supravalvar aortic stenosis : a complication of aortic valve surgery . after a patient had aortic valvotomy and aortotomy for the relief of valvar aortic stenosis supravalvar stenosis developed over the next six years . 
hereditary cerebral haemorrhage with amyloidosis -- dutch type . magnetic resonance imaging findings in 7 cases . the clinical history and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) findings are presented of 7 patients with hereditary cerebral haemorrhage with amyloidosis -- dutch type ( hchwa-d ) . the diagnosis was based on clinical and genealogical data , was confirmed in 3 patients at autopsy and in 2 others by biopsy . focal neurological signs , and at least some degree of global cognitive deterioration , were observed in all patients , with unequivocal dementia in 4 . mri showed haemorrhages and areas of gliosis and , to a variable extent , hyperintensity of the white matter in t2-weighted images . neuropathological examination revealed a large recent haemorrhage together with residual lesions from previous haemorrhages or infarcts in all patients examined . the white matter lesions , present on mri , turned out to be areas of ' incomplete infarction ' with demyelination . it is concluded that ( hereditary ) amyloid angiopathy can lead to strokes , but also to subcortical ischaemic encephalopathy . amyloid angiopathy should therefore be considered in the differential diagnosis of white matter lesions , found on ct or mri , especially when patients present with a cerebral haemorrhage . the relationship between hchwa-d and alzheimer 's disease , another disease with cerebral amyloid deposition and diffuse white matter involvement , is discussed . 
congenital myasthenia associated with facial malformations in iraqi and iranian jews . a new genetic syndrome . fourteen jewish patients from 10 families of either iraqi or iranian origin with congenital myasthenia had associated facial malformations which included an elongated face , mandibular prognathism with class iii malocclusion and a high-arched palate . other common features were muscle weakness restricted predominantly to ptosis , weakness of facial and masticatory muscles , and fatigable speech ; mild and nonprogressive course ; response to cholinesterase inhibitors ; absence of antibodies to acetylcholine receptor ; decremental response on repetitive stimulation at 3 hz but no repetitive compound muscle action potential in response to a single nerve stimulus . this newly recognized form of congenital myasthenia with distinctive ethnic clustering and associated facial malformations is transmitted as an autosomal recessive disorder . the facial abnormalities may be secondary to the neuromuscular defect or may be primary and unrelated . further studies are needed to elucidate the defect in neuromuscular transmission responsible for the pathogenesis of this syndrome . 
heterogeneity in progressive aphasia due to focal cortical atrophy . a clinical and pet study . six patients with a slowly progressive aphasic disorder due to degenerative cortical disease are reported . the length of history varied from 18 months to 6 years . in 5 patients , there was a naming deficit , associated in 4 of these with some abnormalities in comprehension . one patient had a progressive history of reduced speech output , which was associated with an orofacial dyspraxia . all patients were studied neuropsychologically , and in addition regional cerebral metabolism was measured using position emission tomography . a localized left hemisphere deficit was found in all patients except 1 , who had the longest history and the most profound clinical deficit , and who also had right hemisphere hypometabolism . the major brunt of the deficit was in the anterior portion of the left temporal lobe in all but 1 case , the patient with poor speech output who had a more severe left posterior frontal deficit . these findings suggest that in progressive aphasia due to focal cortical atrophy there is heterogeneity in the clinical presentation and anatomical site of the deficit , with possible implications for the underlying aetiology . 
developmental dysmnesia in a poor reader . a 22-yr-old subject with moderate developmental dyslexia experienced poor memory from an early age . in spite of normal intelligence he had great difficulty in learning historical and geographical names , mathematical formulae , poems and songs , and verbal series such as the letters of the alphabet and the months of the year . his recognition of familiar faces was also faulty at times . a battery of memory tests confirmed a moderate deficit of verbal as well as visual memory , whereas spatial memory was preserved . other cognitive functions were intact , except for a mild reading disability . no evidence of brain pathology was provided by his history , neurological examination and ct scanning . 
the comportmental learning disabilities of early frontal lobe damage . two adult patients are described who suffered bilateral prefrontal damage early in life and who subsequently came to psychiatric attention because of severely aberrant behaviour . a battery of developmental psychology paradigms ( not previously used to assess neurologically impaired individuals ) showed that social and moral development of these 2 patients was arrested at an immature stage . in comparison with other types of brain damage which disrupt cognitive development , frontal damage acquired early in life appears to provide the neurological substrate for a special type of learning disability in the realms of insight , foresight , social judgement , empathy , and complex reasoning . 
the distribution of muscle weakness in upper motoneuron lesions affecting the lower limb . to determine the distribution of weakness in the lower limb after upper motoneuron lesions the strength of 8 muscle groups was measured . four groups of patients were studied : 22 control subjects , 16 patients with unilateral leg paresis , 4 patients with severe unilateral paralysis and 5 patients with paraparesis . in the testing posture ( seated ) , patients with cerebral upper motoneuron lesions showed no selective loss of power in flexors or extensors on the contralateral side . gravitational torques were included in the measurements . however , proximal muscles ( acting at hip and knee ) were significantly less severely affected than more distal muscles ( acting at ankle and hallux ) . at any particular joint , physiological flexors and extensors were affected equally in both the hemiparetic and paraparetic subjects . as in the upper limb ( colebatch and gandevia , 1989 ) , the strength of muscles on the clinically unaffected side was reduced compared with control subjects , although no muscle groups were especially affected . 
combined modality therapy for locally advanced non-small cell lung carcinoma . multi-modality treatment consisting of cisplatin , vp-16 , and 5-fluorouracil chemotherapy given concomitantly with external beam radiation was used to treat 64 patients with locally advanced stage iii non-small cell lung carcinoma . this regimen was used in a preoperative fashion for four cycles in patients considered surgically resectable and with curative intent for six cycles in the remainder of patients . the clinical response rate for the entire group was 84 % and the overall local control rate was 74 % . the median survival was 13 months with a median follow-up for live patients of 19 months . the actuarial 3-year survival and disease-free survival rates were 30 % and 23 % , respectively . histologic complete response was 39 % and appeared to predict for survival . the 3-year actuarial survival and disease-free survival rates for 23 resected patients were 69 % and 45 % , respectively , with the complete histologic responders having a disease-free survival of 78 % . the pattern of first recurrence did not appear to differ by histology or presence of lymph nodes in this subset of patients . the actuarial 3-year survival and disease-free survival rates for inoperable patients receiving six cycles of treatment were 18 % and 23 % , respectively . the local control was 67 % with the majority of these patients having stage iiib disease . the mountain international staging system appeared to predict for operability , local recurrence , and survival . this concomitant treatment regimen is feasible , with the major toxicities being leukopenia , nausea , and vomiting . 
superficial esophageal carcinoma . surgical treatment and the results . we report 92 patients treated with esophagectomy for superficial esophageal carcinoma ( sec ; 9.1 % of all resected esophageal cancers at our institution ) . the operative mortality rate was 5.4 % . in 24 cases , cancer invasion was limited to the mucosa , and in 68 to the submucosa . twenty-three patients in the former group had no lymph node involvement , whereas 24 patients ( 35.3 % ) of the latter group had lymph node metastases . the 5-year survival rate after surgery for patients with sec limited to the mucosa was 83.5 % , which was significantly better than that for carcinoma invading the submucosa ( 54.9 % ) . no recurrent disease occurred in patients with lesions limited to the mucosa . in conclusion , an esophagectomy with wide lymphadenectomy is necessary to provide a better prognosis for sec invading the submucosa , whereas a less extensive treatment may be considered for sec limited to the mucosa . 
transrectal ultrasonography of rectal carcinoma . preoperative transrectal ultrasonographic staging of 38 patients with known adenocarcinoma of the rectum was performed . six of these patients had preoperative radiation therapy . of the 32 without radiation therapy , transrectal ultrasonography ( trus ) correctly staged disease limited to the rectum in 90 % ( 18 of 20 ) and transmural extension in 50 % ( 6 of 12 ) , for a sensitivity for evaluating transmural extension of 50 % , specificity of 90 % , positive predictive value of 75 % , and a negative predictive value of 25 % . nineteen patients had positive nodes . the sensitivity and specificity of detecting nodal metastases by trus were 63 % and 85 % . the positive and negative predictive values were 86 % and 61 % , respectively . trus was slightly superior to digital rectal examination in staging patients because of its superior ability to detect adenopathy . adjacent organ involvement was correctly evaluated in five of six patients ; peritumoral fibrosis was misinterpreted as tumor extension into uterus and ovary in one woman . tumor shrinkage in all patients undergoing radiation therapy was identified , but fibrosis and edema made staging by trus unreliable in those patients . 
aneuploidy in pancreatic insulinomas does not predict malignancy . nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid ( dna ) ploidy studies with paraffin embedded archival material from 14 pancreatic insulinomas were performed by flow cytometry . clinical follow-up ( 2 to 17 years ; mean , 8 years ) was obtained for all patients . half of the tumors had a normal dna histogram and half exhibited an abnormal dna profile consistent with dna aneuploidy . six of the seven patients with aneuploid tumors are alive and disease free ( 2 to 5 years postresection ) , and one is alive with metastatic disease . of the seven patients with tumors showing normal dna profiles , five are alive and disease free , one is dead of disease , and one is alive with metastatic disease . these data suggest that dna ploidy analysis is unlikely to provide useful prognostic information for patients with insulinomas . 
tumor factors predicting for prognosis in metastatic breast cancer . the presence of p24 predicts for response to treatment and duration of survival . fifty-one patients with metastatic breast cancer were investigated to determine tumor parameters with prognostic significance . investigations included determinations of p24 content by immunocytochemical means using a monoclonal antibody to p24 protein ; immunocytochemical analysis of estrogen and progesterone receptors ; ploidy analysis by flow cytometry , and histologic grading . there were significant correlations between the presence of p24 and estrogen receptor , between histologic grade and p24 expression , and between estrogen and progesterone receptors . of the tumor factors investigated only p24 protein was , however , of prognostic significance . patients with p24-positive tumors had a significantly higher rate of response to treatment as well as more prolonged duration of response and duration of survival from diagnosis of metastatic disease . none of the other variables investigated were significantly predictive of outcome . p24 protein may be a useful predictor of prognosis in metastatic breast cancer . 
splenic rupture in a human immunodeficiency virus-infected patient with primary splenic lymphoma . splenic rupture presenting as primary malignant lymphoma of the spleen is a rare event . we report such an occurrence in a young man who had a primary b-cell immunoblastic lymphoma of the spleen and was found to be hiv-positive . we suggest that serologic tests for hiv should be performed in unusual cases of malignant lymphoma . 
simultaneous hepatoblastoma in identical male twins . identical male twin infants who in 1987 presented with hepatoblastoma at the age of 7 months are reported . twin b was admitted for investigation due to enlarged liver and spleen . he was found to have an inoperable hepatoblastoma of fetal type and was treated with chemotherapy and local irradiation . however , 7 months after the chemotherapy the tumor recurred . the asymptomatic twin a was examined because of the known familial cases , and he proved to have an identical tumor . he was successfully radically operated on and 2 years after the chemotherapy is still doing well with no evidence of tumor . as the mother and the maternal grandmother had polyps in the colon , quite probably the hepatoblastomas of the twins were associated with familial adenomatous polyposis . 
remodeling of the rat right and left ventricles in experimental hypertension . pathological left ventricular hypertrophy in renovascular hypertension is associated with the accumulation of fibrillar collagen within the extracellular space and around intramyocardial coronary arteries . even though the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor captopril was previously found to attenuate this interstitial and perivascular fibrosis , the relative importance of arterial and ventricular systolic pressures versus circulating angiotensin ii ( aii ) and aldosterone ( al ) in promoting hypertrophy and collagen accumulation in renovascular hypertension is uncertain . by drawing on the in-parallel arrangement of the right and left ventricles , with respect to their coronary circulation , and the in-series mechanical alignment of the ventricles , with a pressure-overloaded left and a normotensive right ventricle , this study sought to address this uncertainty . three models of experimental hypertension , each having a different circulating aii and al profile , were examined and compared with their controls : renovascular hypertension , where both aii and al are increased ; infrarenal aorta banding , where aii and al are normal ; and a chronic infusion of al , where aii is suppressed or normal and al is increased . in renovascular hypertension , as well as with al , we found a significant rise in the interstitial collagen volume fraction and perivascular collagen area of the pressure-overloaded , hypertrophied left ventricle as well as the normotensive , nonhypertrophied right ventricle . this remodeling was not seen in either ventricle with infrarenal aorta banding despite comparable systemic hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy . thus , in experimental arterial hypertension in the rat , myocyte and nonmyocyte compartments of the myocardium are under separate controls : myocyte hypertrophy is most closely related to ventricular loading while circulating aii and al , acting alone or in concert with other humoral factors , regulate the accumulation of collagen within the right and left ventricles . 
effect of chemodenervation on the cerebral vascular and microvascular response to hypoxia . this study evaluated the effect of bilateral carotid chemodenervation on the cerebrovascular response to hypoxia in conscious rats . cerebral blood flow was measured using 4-iodo [ n-methyl-14c ] antipyrine , and the total and perfused microvasculature was studied by injection of fluorescein isothiocyanate dextran and alkaline phosphatase staining . to maintain constant pco2 , hypoxia was achieved in chemoreceptor-intact rats by the use of 4 % co2-8 % o2-88 % n2 and in chemodenervated rats by the administration of 8 % o2-92 % n2 . blood gas and hemodynamic parameters were similar in the two groups of rats . chemodenervation had no significant effect on either resting blood flow or the perfused microvasculature during normoxia . a significant increase in cerebral blood flow ( from 71 + / - 3 to 138 + / - 9 ml/min/100 g in control and from 91 + / - 5 to 127 + / - 7 ml/min/100 g in chemodenervated rats ) and in the percent of cerebral arterioles and capillaries perfused occurred in both hypoxic control and chemodenervated rats . in chemoreceptor-intact rats , the greatest increase in blood flow and in perfused microvasculature occurred in caudal structures ( medulla and pons ) in comparison with rostral structures ( cortex , thalamus , and hypothalamus ) . in chemodenervated rats , a similar increase in blood flow and perfused microvasculature occurred in all brain regions , with no regional differences . thus , chemodenervation did not affect the overall cerebral blood flow or the microvascular response to hypoxia ; however , rostral-to-caudal regional differences in the hypoxic response were lost after chemodenervation . 
intrathoracic current flow during transthoracic defibrillation in dogs . transcardiac current fraction . to achieve transcardiac threshold current during transthoracic defibrillation , a considerably larger current must be delivered to the thorax to compensate for the shunting effect of the lungs , the thoracic cage , and other elements of the torso . this shunting effect is thus an important determinant of transthoracic defibrillation threshold and can be quantified by the transcardiac current fraction ( fc , the ratio of transcardiac to transthoracic threshold currents ) . previous estimates of fc have ranged from as low as 3 % to as high as 45 % . the purpose of of this study was to quantify both fc and the major intrathoracic current pathways . transthoracic and intrathoracic voltages and currents were simultaneously measured during high-voltage transthoracic shocks in 20 dogs . with correction factors determined from another set of 12 dogs , these raw data were corrected to compensate for field distortion caused by the presence of the intrathoracic electrodes , and the adjusted data were fit to a resistive network model . the results showed that 82 % of the transthoracic current was shunted by the thoracic cage , while 14 % was shunted by the lungs . the remaining 4 % ( fc ) is the portion that passed through the heart . there was good agreement between the two independent methods used to calculate fc . analysis based on the model indicated that fc was 3.7 % , whereas fc determined by direct measurement with calibrated electrodes was 4.2 % . therefore , the results of this study , in contrast to earlier estimates of fc , show that defibrillation in dogs is achieved by only 4 % of the total transthoracic current . 
relation between transcardiac and transthoracic current during defibrillation in humans . conceptually , transthoracic defibrillation threshold current can be considered a function of at least two quantities . it is directly proportional to the transcardiac threshold current and inversely proportional to the transcardiac current fraction ( fc ) or the ratio of transcardiac and transthoracic current . although experimental and theoretical estimates of fc have been as high as 45 % , previous measurements in humans have not been made . this study was designed to quantify fc in humans . during intraoperative testing of the automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator , transthoracic rescue shocks of 200-400 j were delivered when the device failed to defibrillate . simultaneous transthoracic voltage ( vt ) and transcardiac voltage ( vc ) between two implanted epicardial patch electrodes were measured . the ratio , vc/vt , was 0.04 + / - 0.03 ( mean + / - sd ) in 10 patients . in 16 dogs , a comparison was made between direct measurement of fc and vc/vt . fc was determined with a specially designed electrode system , which was calibrated to account for field distortion introduced by the electrodes . there was no significant difference between fc and vc/vt , which were both approximately 0.05 , suggesting that vc/vt was statistically equivalent to fc . the results of this study , therefore , indicate that during transthoracic defibrillation in humans , approximately 4 % of transthoracic current traverses the heart . this relatively small percentage of current results from the existence of parallel pathways , such as the thoracic cage and lungs , which shunt current around the heart . 
tissue changes around loose prostheses . a canine model to investigate the effects of an antiinflammatory agent . the aseptically loosened prosthesis provided a means for investigating the in vivo and in vitro activity of the cells associated with the loosening process in seven dogs . the cells were isolated and maintained in culture for sufficient periods of time so that their biologic activity could be studied as well as the effect of different agents added to the cells in vivo or in vitro . the biologic response as determined by interleukin-1 and prostaglandin e2 activity paralleled the roentgenographic appearance of loosening and the technetium images and observations made at the time of revision surgery . the correlation between clinical , roentgenographic , histologic , and biochemical loosening indicates that the canine model is suitable for investigating the mechanisms of prosthetic failure . a canine model permits the study of possible nonsurgical therapeutic interventions with the ultimate hope of stopping or slowing the loosening process . 
dislocation after total hip arthroplasty . causes and prevention . in this prospective study , a technique of positioning the acetabulum by bony landmarks of the pelvis in the standing position was developed using a standing lateral preoperative roentgenogram with the x-ray tube centered over the trochanter . since 1984 , 441 total hip arthroplasties ( thas ) were done through the posterior approach with a 1.14 % dislocation rate through 1988 and no dislocations in 1989 . to prevent impingement and dislocation , it was determined that the safest range for cup position was 30 degrees-50 degrees abduction and 20 degrees-40 degrees flexion from the horizontal . to measure postoperative cup position , a standing true lateral roentgenogram of the operated hip allowed direct measurement of cup flexion and was reproducible within 10 degrees . no special instruments are necessary for this technique , which can be used with any tha system . 
peroneal nerve palsy after total knee arthroplasty . the prognosis for peroneal palsy after total knee arthroplasty ( tka ) is poorly defined . twenty-six postoperative peroneal palsies occurred after 8998 tkas performed between 1972 and 1985 . eighteen patients had complete and eight had incomplete peroneal palsies . twenty-three had both motor and sensory deficits , and three had only motor deficits . at an average of 5.1 years ( range , one to 11 years ) after arthroplasty , recovery was complete for 13 palsies and partial for 12 . complete recovery was more likely in those palsies that were incomplete initially . patients with palsies that were initially partial had significantly higher knee scores than those with complete palsies , and patients whose eventual recovery was complete had significantly higher knee scores than those with incomplete recovery . this new prognostic information should be useful for surgeons who encounter this unfortunate yet persistent complication of tka . 
the case for porous-coated hip implants . the femoral side . a series of 1163 total hip arthroplasties ( thas ) using porous-coated femoral components were roentgenographically assessed for implant fixation . for 959 primary thas followed from two to 12 years , the femoral revision rate was 1 % and the ten-year survivorship rate was 96.4 % ; 150 young patients had a fixation failure incidence of only 1.3 % at a mean follow-up period of 6.4 years ; in 204 revision thas , the femoral re-revision rate was 4 % at a mean follow-up period of 53.4 months . failures were largely related to inadequate femoral canal filling . because of refinements in implant design and surgical techniques , a press fit of the implant is currently achieved in 94 % of cases compared to 36 % during the first five years . porous-coated femoral components have yielded results equivalent to those with cement in primary thas . excellent results were observed in relatively young patients and patients with revisions . 
swallowing disorders in patients with prolonged orotracheal intubation or tracheostomy tubes . eleven patients were tested for swallowing dysfunction after prolonged orotracheal intubation . ten had a tracheostomy tube . mean duration of orotracheal intubation was 19.9 days , mean age 65 yr , and no patient had a concomitant neurologic deficit . all patients had a modified barium swallow with videofluoroscopy . all patients had at least one defect of 11 defects characterized . there was a mean of six defects/patient . the most common defects were delayed triggering of the swallow response ( present in all patients ) and pharyngeal pooling of contrast material ( n = 9 ) . follow-up videofluoroscopy was performed in five patients ( all had improved ) with mean defects decreasing from 6.1 to 2.8 / patient . with one exception , no patient had any defect that was worse than mild in severity . we concluded that prolonged orotracheal intubation with or without tracheostomy may cause prolonged and severe swallowing dysfunction . the deficits improve with time . the presence of a gag reflex does not confer protection against aspiration of pharyngeal contrast . 
cardiac arrhythmias in critically ill patients : epidemiologic study the general prevalence of cardiac arrhythmias in 2,820 consecutive patients was 78 % , ranging from 44 % in multiple trauma patients to 90 % in primary cardiovascular patients . patients without recorded arrhythmias ( 22 % , n = 621 ) were used as control subjects . no clinical group was free from cardiac arrhythmias . atrial tachyarrhythmias had the highest prevalence in the population as a whole ( 28 % ) and in all clinical groups except multiple trauma . atrial fibrillation was the most common atrial arrhythmia ( 52 % ) ; ventricular arrhythmias followed . patients with atrial tachyarrhythmias , nodal rhythm ventricular bradyarrhythmias , and ventricular rapid rhythms had significantly ( p less than .01 ) increased mortality rates ( 40 % , 44 % , 77 % , and 51 % , respectively ) when compared with patients without arrhythmias ( 35 % ) . the relative risk of dying ( rrd ) of these clinical groups was increased by 1.16 , 1.27 , 2.20 , and 1.47 , respectively . patients with cardiorespiratory precipitating disease and any arrhythmia except atrial bradyarrhythmia had a mortality rate between 32 % and 74 % , significantly ( p less than .05 ) different from that of patients within the same clinical groups without arrhythmias . the rrd was increased by 1.67 to 3.40 . septic patients with atrial tachyarrhythmia or nodal rhythm and neurologic patients with nodal or ventricular arrhythmias also had significantly ( p less than .01 and .05 , respectively ) increased mortality and were at higher rrd ( 1.53 to 2.81 ) . our data suggest that severe illness may be present in some clinical groups of critically ill patients with cardiac arrhythmias . 
platelet-activating factor : evidence against a role in hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction . the mechanism of hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction ( hpv ) remains unknown . the platelet-activating factor ( paf ) antagonist web 2086 attenuated hpv in the isolated lung model of the rat . we evaluated the effect of web 2086 on hpv in an intact animal . pigs were anesthetized , mechanically ventilated , and had their hemodynamic variables monitored with a pulmonary artery catheter and arterial line . cardiac output was measured by thermodilution . initial studies determined that paf ( 0.03 to 1.0 micrograms ) injected iv dose-dependently increased pulmonary vascular resistance ( pvr ) with a 262 + / - 58 % increase in pvr 5 min after a dose of 1.0 microgram . web 2086 ( 25 mg/kg iv ) completely blocked the increase in pvr caused by iv paf . additionally , indomethacin ( 2 mg/kg followed by 2 mg/kg . h iv ) treatment of the animals attenuated the paf-induced increase in pvr . to evaluate the effect of web 2086 on hpv , animals were alternately ventilated with 21 % oxygen and 10-min periods of 10 % oxygen to induce hpv . after three initial control episodes of hypoxic ventilation , web 2086 ( 25 mg/kg ) was injected iv and two more episodes of ventilation with 10 % oxygen were given . during the three control hpv episodes the increases in pvr were 80 + / - 10 % , 108 + / - 10 % , and 107 + / - 22 % ( n = 5 ) . after web 2086 , the increase in pvr during two episodes of hypoxia were 96 + / - 28 % and 99 + / - 19 % , respectively , which was not significantly different from the control response to hypoxia . we conclude that iv paf dose dependently increases pvr in pigs , and can be blocked by web 2086 , that its effect is partially mediated through cyclooxygenase products , and that paf does not appear to mediate hpv in this species . 
inhaled albuterol and oral prednisone therapy in hospitalized adult asthmatics . does aminophylline add any benefit ? study objective : to determine the efficacy of intravenous aminophylline in the treatment of adult patients hospitalized for exacerbation of asthma . design : randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial throughout the study . setting : university hospital clinical research center . patients : forty-four patients admitted from the emergency room with a primary diagnosis asthma ; 39 patients completed the study . interventions : patients received either intravenous aminophylline or placebo in addition to frequent nebulized albuterol ; prednisone 0.5 mg/kg body weight every 6 h orally ; and supplemental oxygen . aminophylline infusion rates were adjusted to achieve serum theophylline concentrations of 10 to 20 micrograms/ml . changes were made in placebo infusion rates to maintain the double blind design . measurements and results : forced expiratory volume in 1 s ( fev1 ) and other spirometric measurements every 8 h by a blinded investigator or trained respiratory therapist . subjective patient response and duration of hospitalization were compared . no difference in spirometric measurements was observed between the two groups at any time point . on admission to the study , fev1 in the placebo group was 41.5 ( + / - 2.9 ) percent predicted and in the aminophylline group 34.7 ( + / - 2.3 ) percent predicted ( p = 0.08 ) . at discharge , fev1 was 70.4 ( + / - 2.9 ) percent predicted in the placebo group and 63.7 ( + / - 2.8 ) percent predicted in the theophylline group ( p = 0.10 ) . there was no difference in subjective patient rating or duration of hospitalization between the two groups ( placebo 1.95 days and aminophylline 1.78 days , p = 0.51 ) . conclusions : our results suggest that aminophylline therapy does not add significant benefit to other standard therapies in hospitalized adult asthmatic patients . because of the risks and cost of aminophylline treatment in the hospital setting , further research is needed to determine if there are subgroups of adult asthmatics who may benefit from the addition of aminophylline to other standard optimal therapies . 
acute lobar atelectasis . a comparison of two chest physiotherapy regimens . fourteen cases of acute lobar atelectasis were alternately allocated to one of two chest physiotherapy regimens for treatment . treatment in group 1 comprised positioning , vibrations , hyperinflation , and suction , and in group 2 , treatment consisted of hyperinflation and suction alone . treatment in either group was given hourly for six hours . patients in group 1 had a significantly higher mean percentage resolution of their atelectasis ( mean value , 60.1 percent ) , as seen on chest roentgenogram , after one treatment intervention than patients in group 2 ( mean value , 7.6 percent ; p less than .006 ) . after the intensive six-hour treatment period , the difference between the groups was marginally statistically significant , still favoring group 1 over group 2 ( p less than .055 ) . follow-up roentgenograms at 24 and 48 hours revealed no significant difference between the treatment groups ( p greater than .10 and greater than .20 , respectively ) . these results suggest that , at least initially in the course of acute lobar atelectasis , positioning and vibrations add to the efficacy of a treatment of hyperinflation and suction alone . 
atypical presentations of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients receiving inhaled pentamidine prophylaxis . inhaled pentamidine is used commonly to prevent pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) in patients with advanced human immunodeficiency virus infection . case reports indicate that pcp can recur in patients who receive inhaled pentamidine and that clinical features may be atypical . to determine the magnitude of this problem , we reviewed retrospectively the medical records of patients with proven pcp during a 30-month period at two hospitals . four ( 31 percent ) of 13 patients with previous pcp who received inhaled pentamidine prophylaxis had recurrent p carinii infection , including one patient with widely metastatic extrapulmonary disease . chest roentgenographic findings included cavities , pneumothoraces , bilateral and upper lobe interstitial infiltrates , and pleural effusion . false-negative bronchoalveolar lavage and induced sputum examinations were frequent . we conclude that recurrent pcp in patients maintained on a regimen of inhaled pentamidine prophylaxis occurs frequently , causes chest roentgenographic abnormalities other than interstitial infiltrates , and may be difficult to diagnose . clinicians who choose to use this effective and convenient mode of prophylaxis should be aware of the problems attendant to its use . 
optimal interpretation of the supine exercise electrocardiogram in patients with right bundle branch block . a detailed analysis of the exercise ecg was performed in 82 patients with right bundle branch block who underwent supine exercise equilibrium radionuclide angiography . the sensitivity and specificity of each individual electrocardiographic lead for the detection of a positive radionuclide angiogram was determined . leads v5 and v6 had a sensitivity of 58 percent and a specificity of 89 percent . the limb leads and lead v4 had a lower sensitivity , but an equivalent specificity . leads v1 and v3 each had a clearly lower specificity that ranged from 56 to 67 percent . receiver operating characteristic curve analysis demonstrated that the optimal interpretation of the exercise ecg included the limb leads and v4 to v6 , but not v1 to v3 . the results of coronary angiography in the subset of 16 patients who underwent this procedure confirmed these findings . 
reduction in bleeding after heart-lung transplantation . the importance of posterior mediastinal hemostasis . to reduce perioperative hemorrhage following heart-lung transplantation , several technical modifications were introduced in june 1988 to secure better posterior mediastinal hemostasis . the intraoperative and postoperative use of blood and blood products , as well as the chest tube drainage in the first 24 hours postoperatively , were compared in the seven patients operated on since june 1988 with the nine patients operated on before that date . significant ( p less than 0.05 ) reductions were demonstrated in the intraoperative and postoperative transfusion of packed cells , in the postoperative administration of fresh frozen plasma , and in the chest tube drainage within the first 24 hours postoperatively . the one-month and total hospital mortality rates were 6 percent and 12.5 percent , respectively . it is concluded that newer techniques to obtain optimal posterior mediastinal hemostasis have significantly reduced blood loss following heart-lung transplantation in our experience and have contributed to our excellent early postoperative results . 
pulmonary vascular steal in chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension . after pulmonary thromboendarterectomy , performed for relief of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension , perfusion lung scans have frequently disclosed new perfusion defects in segments served by undissected pulmonary arteries . our hypotheses were that these new postoperative defects occurred with great frequency and did not represent postoperative vessel occlusion . we retrospectively reviewed the preoperative and postoperative perfusion scans of 33 consecutive patients undergoing pulmonary thromboendarterectomy . new postoperative perfusion defects were noted in 23 of 33 patients . the incidence of new defects was increased tenfold in segments that had ( 1 ) normal preoperative angiographic findings , ( 2 ) normal preoperative radionuclide perfusion , and ( 3 ) not been entered at the time of surgery . postoperative angiograms , available in 15 of 33 patients , documented the nonembolic , nonocclusive nature of the new perfusion scan defects . the most plausible alternate explanation for this previously undescribed finding is a redistribution of pulmonary arterial resistance induced by the thromboendarterectomy , namely , a pulmonary vascular " steal . " . 
measurements of right ventricular volumes during fluid challenge . the effects of fluid loading on rv function were studied in 41 acutely ill patients monitored with a modified pulmonary artery catheter equipped for measuring rvef . hemodynamic evaluation was performed before and after infusion of 300 ml of 4.5 percent albumin solution in 30 min . changes in si did not correlate with pra or ppao but did with rvedvi . for the entire group , rvef was unchanged ( 27 + / - 9 vs 27 + / - 9 percent ) . in the eight patients with an initial rvedvi greater than 140 ml/m2 , the fluid challenge increased pra and ppao and reduced lvswi without any other significant effect . there was no significant correlation between rvedvi and pra and only a weak correlation between rvesvi and ppa . however , there was a highly linear correlation between both rvedvi and rvesvi and changes in rvedvi and in rvesvi , suggesting that in the absence of severe pulmonary hypertension rv output is primarily dependent on rv preload . 
prostacyclin but not phentolamine increases oxygen consumption and skin microvascular blood flow in patients with sepsis and respiratory failure . inadequate tissue oxygenation may occur in critically ill patients with sepsis despite an apparently adequate o2 transport ( qo2 ) , and this may contribute to the development of an o2 debt and also to multiple organ failure . it has been shown that increasing qo2 by infusing a vasodilator may reveal this o2 debt in septic patients . to investigate whether the site of action of vasodilators may be of importance in unmasking such an o2 debt , we administered prostacyclin , a prostaglandin with a preferential effect on the microcirculation , and phentolamine , an arteriolar vasodilator , in 11 patients studied during the first 48 hours after the onset of sepsis , and compared their effect on whole body oxygen consumption ( vo2 ) and skin microvascular blood flow . the results demonstrated that increasing qo2 by prostacyclin but not by phentolamine significantly increases vo2 in critically ill patients with sepsis . the site of action of vasodilators may therefore play an important role in their ability to unmask an o2 debt . 
osler-weber-rendu disease and pulmonary arteriovenous fistulas . deterioration and embolotherapy during pregnancy . several reports have implicated pregnancy as a cause of deterioration in patients with pulmonary arteriovenous fistulas . we report a 27-year-old woman with multiple pulmonary arteriovenous fistulas who required coil spring embolotherapy in her 24th week of pregnancy due to a spontaneous hemothorax and hypoxemia . 
pneumomediastinum , pneumothorax and subcutaneous emphysema following the measurement of maximal expiratory pressure in a normal subject . mediastinal and subcutaneous emphysema have been reported as a consequence of deliberate manipulations of the breathing pattern producing a valsalva-like maneuver in healthy subjects . we present a case of pneumomediastinum , pneumothorax and subcutaneous emphysema occurring in a normal volunteer after repeated measurements of the pemax . 
management of brucella endocarditis with aortic root abscess . three cases of brucella endocarditis with aortic root abscess are reported . two patients were successfully managed by a combination of medical therapy and surgery . the third patient died suddenly 36 hours after admission to hospital . 
ear involvement in the yellow nail syndrome . recognized features of the yellow nail syndrome include yellow nails , lymphedema , and pleural effusions . we report a patient with the additional feature of keratosis obturans , which may be a manifestation of this syndrome in the external ear . 
permanent venous access via subcutaneous infusion port in severe asthma . a subcutaneous infusion port was implanted in a 34-year-old patient with frequent and severe asthma attacks to ensure prompt and reliable venous access . difficulties with peripheral venous access were possible cofactors necessitating mechanical ventilation on two occasions before this implantation . the method described is simple and seems useful for asthmatics in need of frequent parenteral medication . 
landau-kleffner syndrome : a clinical and eeg study of five cases . in five children with normal initial psychomotor development , a landau-kleffner syndrome appeared at age 3-7 years . no neuroanatomic lesions were noted . aphasia and hyperkinesia were isolated in three patients and associated with global regression of higher cortical functions in one patient . massive intellectual deterioration and psychotic behavior were associated with transient aphasia in one patient . the epilepsy ( focal motor and generalized tonic-clonic seizures , subclinical eeg focal seizures during sleep , and atypical absences ) always regressed spontaneously or with antiepileptic drug ( aed ) treatment . the eeg in waking patients showed focal and generalized spike-wave discharges on a normal background rhythm . discharge topography and pattern changed frequently . during sleep , discharges always increased . at some time during syndrome development , all patients had bilateral spike-waves for greater than 85 % of the sleep period , while at other times the discharges were discontinuous or continuous but focal or unilaterally hemispheric . discharge topography and abundance changed from night to night . the abnormal eeg and the impaired higher functions developed and regressed together , but not with strict temporal correlation . our own experience suggests that the landau-kleffner syndrome and epilepsy with continuous spike-wave activity in slow-wave sleep can not be clearly differentiated . they may be different points on the spectrum of a single syndrome . 
landau-kleffner syndrome : a pharmacologic study of five cases . five children with landau-kleffner syndrome ( epilepsy , acquired aphasia , and continuous spike-wave discharges during sleep ) , were treated with antiepileptic drugs ( aeds ) , sleep-modifying drugs , and corticosteroids . the pharmacologic profiles differed from those observed in focal epilepsies , resembling instead those of certain generalized epilepsies , such as west or lennox-gastaut syndromes . phenobarbital ( pb ) , carbamazepine ( cbz ) , and phenytoin ( pht ) were ineffective or worsened the eeg and neuropsychological symptoms , whereas valproate ( vpa ) , ethosuximide ( esm ) , and benzodiazepines were partially or transiently efficacious . dextroamphetamine produced a dramatic but transient improvement in waking and sleep eeg in one of two children ; aphasia did not change . corticosteroid treatment resulted in improved speech , suppression of seizures , and normalization of the eeg in three of three children . our own experience and data from the literature suggest that corticosteroids should be given in high doses as soon as the diagnosis is firmly established and should be continued in maintenance dose for several months or years to avoid escape . early diagnosis , before mutism or global deterioration develops , appears to be essential for effective therapy with minimal neuropsychological sequelae . 
cerebral glucose utilization during sleep in landau-kleffner syndrome : a pet study . three right-handed male children ( aged 5 , 6 , and 11 years ) with signs , symptoms and/or history of the syndrome of acquired aphasia-epilepsy ( landau-kleffner syndrome ) were studied during drug-induced , electroencephalographically ( eeg ) - monitored sleep by positron-emission tomography ( pet ) and the [ 18f ] fluorodeoxyglucose ( fdg ) method . our data demonstrate that in landau-kleffner syndrome , cerebral glucose utilization is not normal during sleep . the metabolic pattern varied between the children but the metabolic disturbances always predominated over the temporal lobes . they were right-sided , left-sided , or bilateral . in the two first patients , eeg recordings showed continuous spike-and-wave discharges during sleep and a right-greater-than-left asymmetry was observed in temporal areas . in patient 1 , the asymmetry was associated with a relative increase of glucose utilization of the right posterior temporal region . in patient 2 , the glucose utilization was relatively decreased in the left anterotemporal and left perisylvian regions . in patient 3 , the sleep eeg showed no discharge and no significant asymmetry was observed ; however , glucose utilization of both temporal lobes was decreased . lower metabolic rates in subcortical structures than in cortex were also noted in the three children . this metabolic pattern may be related to the maturation of the central nervous system ( cns ) . 
allelic variants at insulin-receptor and insulin gene loci and susceptibility to niddm in welsh population . a cohort of 132 well-documented white welsh non-insulin-dependent diabetic ( niddm ) subjects were genotyped for 5 restriction-fragment-length polymorphisms ( rflps ) at the insulin-receptor gene ( irg ) locus and a polymorphic locus 5 ' to the insulin gene . there was no significant difference in rflp frequencies between the niddm subjects and a group of 87 matched white control subjects . paired haplotype analysis of the irg rflps suggested a difference between niddm and control groups for the endonuclease combinations bgl ii-rsa i and bgl ii-xba i. analysis of implied haplotypes defined by the endonucleases bgl ii , rsa i , and xba i revealed one haplotype to be more prevalent in the niddm group ; whereas , another haplotype was associated with the control group ( p less than 0.02 ) . subset analysis within the niddm cohort compared the metabolic response of niddm subjects with the differing irg haplotypes to a standard meal tolerance test . both groups showed equivalent basal and postprandial glucose excursions , but one group revealed a significantly exaggerated plasma insulin response compared with the other ( p less than 0.05 ) . this may reflect the influence of genetic variation at the irg locus on insulin sensitivity in patients with niddm . 
increased susceptibility to hypoxia of prolonged action potential duration in ventricular papillary muscles from diabetic rats . the action potential duration ( apd ) of ventricular muscles obtained from diabetic animals is reported to be prolonged . we studied the effect of varied periods of diabetes on apd prolongation using isolated ventricular papillary muscles from streptozocin-injected rats . we found that a diabetic period greater than 30 wk was necessary for the evolution of significant prolongation of apd . we then studied the effect of repeated hypoxia ( po2 40 mmhg ) and normoxia ( po2 300 mmhg ) on prolonged apd of diabetic muscles and compared the findings with those from control rats . transmembrane potentials were recorded with conventional glass microelectrodes . under normoxic conditions , the apds of diabetic muscles were significantly prolonged , the maximum upstroke velocity of action potentials tended to be decreased , and the resting membrane potential was not changed significantly compared with controls . the first hypoxia ( 20 min ) shortened the apd in both diabetic and control rats but more so in diabetic rats , thereby making the apd of diabetic rats virtually identical to the control rat apd during the hypoxia . on subsequent reoxygenation ( 30 min ) , these hypoxia-induced changes were almost recovered . the second hypoxia ( 20 min ) produced more severe shortening of the apd in both muscle types , and the effect was again far greater in diabetic rats than controls , ending with a reversed sequence of apds and the apd of diabetic muscles much shorter than the controls . excessive shortening of apd in diabetic muscles during hypoxic conditions was speculated to be due to greater increases in the outward k + current through atp-regulated k + channels that may be secondary to the more severe reduction of intracellular atp concentrations in diabetic versus control hearts . 
polymorphisms of glut2 and glut4 genes . use in evaluation of genetic susceptibility to niddm in blacks . the liver/islet ( glut2 ) and muscle/adipose tissue ( glut4 ) glucose-transporter gene products , membrane proteins that facilitate glucose uptake into cells , are important molecules for normal carbohydrate metabolism . recent isolation of the genes encoding these proteins provides a means to assess the role of possible defects that might contribute to impaired glucose-stimulated insulin secretion or impaired insulin-mediated glucose uptake , both prominent phenotypic features of non-insulin-dependent diabetes ( niddm ) . a glut2 cdna clone was isolated from a human liver cdna library to search for polymorphisms at this locus in american blacks . three highly polymorphic sites were identified , one of which ( ecori-hae iii ) appears to be due to an insertion and/or deletion of 200 base pairs of dna . significant linkage disequilibrium between these sites over approximately 30 kilobases of genomic dna suggested that these polymorphisms could be in linkage disequilibrium with mutations at this locus if they exist . a glut4 cdna clone was also utilized to search for polymorphisms at this locus , but only one previously described polymorphism was observed . glut2 and glut4 cdna probes were used to evaluate dna polymorphisms in genomic dna from american blacks with niddm . the allelic , genotypic , and haplotypic frequencies of the dna polymorphisms at these loci did not differ from the frequencies in nondiabetic subjects . because no associations with niddm were found , it appears unlikely that mutations at these loci contribute in a major way to the genetic susceptibility to niddm observed in american blacks . 
acute bronchitis : general practitioners ' views regarding diagnosis and treatment . a survey was conducted among 800 dutch general practitioners to establish their views on the diagnosis and treatment of bronchitis and related disorders with reference to 12 theoretical patients . the answers of the 467 respondents ( response rate 60 % ) showed no clear relationship between signs and symptoms of the patients and the diagnosis made . in the authors ' opinion the diagnosis of pneumonia was made too often . the decision whether or not to prescribe an antibiotic for a coughing patient was based in part on the diagnosis made , but in part it was also made on the basis of the signs and symptoms , irrespective of the diagnosis . the authors have the impression that general practitioners tend to prescribe antibiotics too quickly to coughing patients . there is a need for guidelines for diagnosis and treatment of patients with acute bronchitis and related conditions . 
premenstrual syndromes defined by symptom-sets . an analysis is made of the pattern of presenting premenstrual symptoms in randomly selected general practice patients from the wellington region , new zealand . participants , 1826 healthy women 16-54 years old whose characteristics were reasonably representative of the adult female population , were asked about their general , obstetrical and gynaecological health . for the 1456 women who had menstruated within the last month or so , detailed questions were asked about the last menstrual cycle . each woman was assigned to one of seven premenstrual symptom sets . three groups had ' pure ' symptoms , ie a predominant single symptom ( breast tenderness , bloating or irritability ) . three groups had ' mixed ' symptom-sets . the largest of the ' mixed ' groups was formed by the women who reported breast tenderness , bloating and irritability together with tension and depression . women in this group were most likely to rate their symptomatology as severe . the last group contains a large number of women with miscellaneous symptoms . characteristics of these groups are outlined . the study highlights the importance of distinguishing among premenstrual syndromes as this can foster more effective clinical management . 
liver transplantation : the shadow side . for a relatively large number of patients with liver disease , a liver transplant does not always provide a successful solution . what does confrontation with this modern technology mean for those involved ? we interviewed 30 relatives of patients who had died after they had been turned down for a transplant , or during or shortly after a liver transplant operation performed in the groningen liver transplant programme . quantitative data were obtained by means of a questionnaire . one-third of the respondents were of the opinion that the patient would have been better off if he/she had not entered the programme . over half found the loss more difficult to accept because the patient had been involved in the programme . nevertheless , many had the feeling of satisfaction that everything possible had been done . however fruitful transplantation technology may be for a specific group of patients , it also involves undesirable side-effects which should be included in the careful judgement of this technology . 
enteric neuronal autoantibodies in pseudoobstruction with small-cell lung carcinoma . severe gastrointestinal dysmotility is a newly recognized paraneoplastic syndrome that occurs with small-cell lung carcinoma . thirty-four patients with small-cell carcinoma , of whom 5 had chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction and 29 had no digestive symptoms , were studied serologically . four of the 5 patients with gut dysmotility had immunoglobulin g antibodies reactive with neurons of the myenteric and submucosal plexuses of jejunum and stomach in an indirect immunofluorescence assay . antibodies of this type were not found in any of the 29 patients who had no gut dysmotility , nor were they found in patients with chronic idiopathic intestinal pseudoobstruction ( n = 8 ) , ovarian cancer ( n = 20 ) , or epilepsy ( n = 4 ) or in normal subjects ( n = 9 ) . in 4 of the patients with paraneoplastic pseudoobstruction , antibodies in highly diluted serum ( 1:4000 -1:8000 ) bound selectively to nuclei and cytoplasm of neuronal elements in the gut . this novel autoantibody activity suggests that intestinal pseudoobstruction occurring in patients with small-cell carcinoma may have an autoimmune basis . from a clinical standpoint , serological testing offers a simple means for determining which patients with gut dysmotility syndromes may have associated small-cell carcinoma , thereby enabling earlier diagnosis and treatment of the tumor . 
prevalence of spontaneous hepatofugal portal flow in liver cirrhosis . clinical and endoscopic correlation in 228 patients . the prevalence of spontaneous reversal of flow in the portal venous system was non invasively evaluated by doppler ultrasound in 228 patients with liver cirrhosis and portal hypertension . reversed flow was detected in the portal vein in 7 patients ( 3.1 % ) , in the splenic vein in 7 patients ( 3.1 % ) , and in the superior mesenteric vein in 5 patients ( 2.1 % ) , with an overall prevalence of 8.3 % ( 19/228 ) . this prevalence did not differ in relation to the etiology of liver cirrhosis , whereas hepatofugal flow was found in more patients classified as child 's c ( 15.4 % ) and b ( 12.5 % ) than those classified as child 's a ( 2.7 % ) ( p less than 0.02 ) and was associated with a higher frequency of hepatic encephalopathy ( 21 % vs. 7.2 % ; p less than 0.05 ) . endoscopic evaluation of esophageal varices did not reveal any correlation between the presence and size of varices and hepatofugal flow , whereas red signs were detected more frequently in patients with this hemodynamic pattern ( 42.1 % vs. 24.4 % ; ns ) . the rate of previous variceal bleeding was not significantly different in patients with and without hepatofugal flow ( 30.8 % vs. 24.4 % ; ns ) . conversely , the prospective evaluation of 15 patients with hepatofugal flow and 29 matched patients with hepatopetal flow , derived from the group of 228 patients , followed up for a period of 12-18 months , showed that variceal bleeding occurred in 9 of 29 patients with hepatopetal flow and in none of the 15 patients with hepatofugal flow ( p less than 0.02 ) . however , no statistical difference was found in the survival rates . this study indicates that the actual prevalence of reversed flow in the portal , splenic , and superior mesenteric veins in a nonselected cirrhotic population is 8.3 % . from a clinical point of view , the data suggest that this finding might be considered an important prognostic factor because , while occurring in cirrhotic patients with more severe functional impairment , it might play a protective role against the risk of bleeding . 
detection and direct sequencing of hepatitis b virus genome by dna amplification method . hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) dna was detected with amplification by the polymerase chain reaction method . cloned hbv dna equivalent to one virus genome ( 3 x 10 ( -6 ) pg ) was detectable by ethidium bromide staining after 50 cycles of polymerase chain reaction . by applying this method , presence of hbv dna was studied in 23 hepatitis b surface antigen ( hbsag ) - positive and 11 hbsag-negative sera from patients with chronic liver disease . hepatitis b virus dna was positive in 8 of 8 hepatitis b e antigen ( hbeag ) - positive , in 2 of 2 hbeag - and anti-hbe-negative , and in 12 of 13 anti-hbe-positive sera . hepatitis b virus dna was undetectable in all hbsag-negative sera even with amplification . to confirm specificity , the amplified product was directly sequenced . sequences around 122nd and 160th codon of hbs gene , which determines subtypes d/y and w/r , respectively , were analyzed . the results were compatible with recent reports regarding the relation between hbv subtypes and hbv dna sequence at those codons . hepatitis b virus dna could be detected at the level of one virion by gene amplification method , and its sequence could be determined by direct sequencing in a few days . 
conjugates of ursodeoxycholate protect against cholestasis and hepatocellular necrosis caused by more hydrophobic bile salts . in vivo studies in the rat . the protective effect of ursodeoxycholate conjugates against bile salt hepatotoxicity was studied in chronic bile fistula rats . taurochenodeoxycholate or taurodeoxycholate , infused intraduodenally at 24 or 16 mumols/100 g rat per hour , respectively , caused cholestasis and severe hepatocellular necrosis within 8 hours . in contrast , tauroursodeoxycholate or taurocholate at 48 mumols/100 g rat per hour were choleretic . tauroursodeoxycholate was not hepatotoxic , whereas taurocholate produced moderate hepatocellular necrosis . simultaneous infusion of tauroursodeoxycholate to rats receiving taurochenoxycholate or taurodeoxycholate preserved bile flow and ameliorated hepatic injury in a dose-dependent manner . tauroursodeoxycholate protected equally by intravenous and intraduodenal routes . intravenous glycoursodeoxycholate also was protective . the hydrophobicity index of infused bile salts correlated well with their toxicity . concurrent administration of ursodeoxycholate conjugates did not reduce biliary recovery of intraduodenally infused [ 24-14c ] - taurocholate . biliary alkaline phosphatase secretion was stimulated by infusion of taurocholate , taurodeoxycholate , or taurochenodeoxycholate ; simultaneous infusion of ursodeoxycholate conjugates failed to prevent this increase . we conclude that ursodeoxycholate counteracts hepatoxicity of more hydrophobic bile salts via a direct effect at the level of the liver . 
persistent hepatitis b virus following interferon alfa therapy and liver transplantation . a 44-year-old man with chronic hepatitis b virus infection and cirrhosis was treated with recombinant human interferon alfa for 67 days immediately before orthotopic liver transplantation and immunoprophylaxis with hyperimmune globulin to hepatitis b virus in the peritransplant period . dot blots for hepatitis b virus dna demonstrated marked reduction in viremia after 41 days of interferon alfa treatment . southern analysis for hepatitis b virus in liver showed a pronounced decrement in actively replicating forms in the explant , although hepatic infection was still detectable . after liver transplantation , tests for serum hepatitis b virus dna and hepatitis b surface antigen remained negative . the patient died 32 days after transplantation of causes unrelated to hepatitis b virus . dna isolated from liver and other visceral organs at autopsy showed infection of the engrafted liver and the persistence of monomeric relaxed circular forms of hepatitis b virus dna in pancreas , kidney , and spleen . thus , graft reinfection occurred despite aggressive antiviral therapy and immunoprophylaxis combined with liver transplantation . existing viral serological markers appear insufficiently sensitive to assess residual infectivity . 
hepatic fibrin-ring granulomas in a patient with hepatitis a. hepatic fibrin-ring granulomas were found in a 30-year-old patient with serologically confirmed hepatitis a. other causes associated with the presence of fibrin-ring granulomas in the liver , such as hodgkin 's and non-hodgkin 's lymphoma , cytomegalovirus infection , visceral leishmaniasis , and consumption of allopurinol , were ruled out . it is suggested that hepatitis a must be included in the differential diagnosis of a patient with hepatic fibrin-ring granulomas . 
injection or heat probe for bleeding ulcer . a prospective randomized trial was performed to compare the efficacy of endoscopic epinephrine injection and heat probe treatment in actively bleeding peptic ulcers . emergency endoscopy in 1758 patients over an 18-month period identified 132 patients with active ulcer bleeding . they were randomized to receive either endoscopic epinephrine injection or heat probe treatment . after endoscopy , the patients were transferred to the surgical gastroenterology ward and were managed by surgeons unaware of the treatment option . bleeding was initially controlled in 96 % by epinephrine injection and in 83 % by heat probe ( p less than 0.05 ) . there was no significant difference in outcome as measured by transfusion requirement ( 4.5 units vs. 3.8 units ) , emergency surgery ( 20 % vs. 22 % ) , hospital stay ( 8 days vs. 7 days ) , and mortality ( 2 vs. 4 ) between the injection group and the heat probe group . two patients in the heat probe group experienced perforation . we conclude that both endoscopic epinephrine injection and heat probe treatment are effective in stopping bleeding from actively bleeding ulcers . epinephrine injection is technically easier to perform and has a higher initial success rate . 
plasma vasoactive intestinal polypeptide concentration determination in patients with diarrhea . determination of plasma levels of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide ( vip ) has been used for screening patients with chronic diarrhea to identify potential neuroendocrine tumors . this 6-year blinded study from 1981 to 1986 examines the causes of elevated vip levels in patients . in healthy volunteers ( n = 144 ) , vip concentrations ranged from 14 to 76 pg/ml ( mean + / - se , 28 + / - 12 ) , whereas in chronic renal failure , 4 of 34 patients or 12 % [ serum creatinine 4.5 - 9.0 mg/dl ( 397-795 mumols/l ) ] had an elevation to greater than 100 pg/ml . no patient with idiopathic hepatic cirrhosis ( n = 12 ) had elevation of serum concentration of this peptide . among 588 consecutive unselected patients undergoing evaluation for chronic diarrhea ( n = 362 ; 62 % ) or possible neuroendocrine tumor ( n = 214 ; 36 % ) , 23 patients ( 3.9 % ) had concentrations greater than 76 pg/ml . in this group , 5 patients had functioning ( vip , 160-5975 pg/ml ) and 5 had nonfunctioning ( vip , 80-120 pg/ml ) pancreatic islet cell carcinomas : all 10 patients had hepatic metastases . other known cases of elevated levels of vip , ranging from 80 to 340 pg/ml , included other neurogenic tumors ( n = 3 ) , small - bowel resection ( n = 2 ) , inflammatory bowel disease ( n = 2 ) , chronic renal failure ( n = 1 ) , and prolonged fasting ( n = 1 ) . patients with diarrhea in which vip-secreting tumors were identified had plasma vasoactive intestinal peptide concentrations greater than 140 pg/ml . in patients with chronic diarrhea , determination of plasma vasoactive intestinal peptide levels did identify tumors secreting this peptide , but the results from this referral institution did not show identification of these tumors early in their clinical course . 
psychosomatic factors in borderline hypertensive subjects and offspring of hypertensive parents . psychosomatic factors , sympathoneural and sympathoadrenal as well as cardiovascular mechanisms , were studied in 24 patients 18-24 years of age with borderline hypertension , 50 age-matched normotensive offspring of hypertensive parents , and 49 controls with no family history of hypertension . they were compared by projective and questionnaire-based psychological tests and their circulatory and neurohormonal reactivity to mental ( stroop color-word conflict test and arithmetic test ) and physical stressors ( orthostasis and bicycle ergometry test ) were measured . borderline hypertensive subjects externalized aggression less ( p less than 0.05 ) but internalized it more ( p less than 0.05 ) and were more submissive ( p less than 0.05 ) when compared with controls . offspring of hypertensive parents showed a similar but weaker pattern . both risk groups reported more positive interactions with their parents ( genetic risk subjects versus controls , p less than 0.05 ; borderline hypertensive patients versus controls , p = 0.08 ) and had higher state-anxiety levels ( p less than 0.05 ) . there were more subjective symptoms of beta-adrenergic receptor-mediated functions ( e.g. , tachycardia , tremor ) in borderline hypertensive subjects and offspring of hypertensive parents , elevated heart rates ( analysis of repeated measures , p less than 0.001 ) , and enhanced plasma norepinephrine concentrations ( p less than 0.05 ) when compared with controls . these findings in subjects at risk for the development of hypertension suggest that psychosomatic factors and sympathetic overactivity are involved in the early phase of hypertension . 
renal secretion and hepatic clearance of human multiple renin forms . human active renin can be separated into at least five forms by isoelectric focusing . the present study assessed the preferential renal secretion and hepatic degradation of renin forms in humans . the renin form profile of secreted renal renin was determined before transplant in an ex vivo kidney donor perfusion system and compared with the peripheral plasma multiple renin form profile of normal subjects . the effect of hepatic degradation on renin forms was assessed in hepatic vein plasma in comparison with infrarenal vena cava plasma in hypertensive patients during renal vein renin studies . the results revealed a significantly greater proportion of the more basic forms in the perfusate of donor kidneys compared with normal plasma . in hypertensive patients the proportion of the more basic renin forms in the hepatic vein was significantly decreased in comparison with the infrarenal vena cava . thus , the human kidney may preferentially secrete the more basic renin forms . in contrast , the liver preferentially degrades the more basic forms , giving these forms a shorter plasma half-life . the preferential secretion and clearance of the more basic forms of renin may contribute to short-term control of human renin-angiotensin system activity . 
muscle blood flow and muscle metabolism during exercise and heat stress . the effect of heat stress on blood flow and metabolism in an exercising leg was studied in seven subjects walking uphill ( 12-17 % ) at 5 km/h on a treadmill for 90 min or until exhaustion . the first 30 min of exercise were performed in a cool environment ( 18-21 degrees c ) ; then subjects moved to an adjacent room at 40 degrees c and continued to exercise at the same speed and inclination for a further 60 min or to exhaustion , whichever occurred first . the rate of o2 consumption , 2.6 l/min ( 1.8-3 .3 ) ( average from cool and hot conditions ) , corresponded to 55-77 % of their individual maximums . in the cool environment a steady state was reached at 30 min . when the subjects were shifted to the hot room , the core temperature and heart rate started to rise and reached values greater than 39 degrees c and near-maximal values , respectively , at the termination of the exercise . the leg blood flow ( thermodilution method ) , femoral arteriovenous o2 difference , and consequently leg o2 consumption were unchanged in the hot compared with the cool condition . there was no increase in release of lactate and no reduction in glucose and free net fatty acid uptake in the exercising leg in the heat . furthermore , the rate of glycogen utilization in the gastrocnemius muscle was not elevated in the hot environment . there was a tendency for cardiac output to increase in the heat ( mean 15.2 to 18.4 l/min ) , which may have contributed to the increase in skin circulation , together with a possible further reduction in flow to other vascular beds , because muscle blood flow was not reduced . 
stress adaptation and low-frequency impedance of rat lungs . at transpulmonary pressures ( ptp ) of 7-12 cmh2o , pressure-volume hysteresis of isolated cat lungs has been found to be 20-50 % larger than predicted from their amount of stress adaptation ( j. hildebrandt , j. appl . physiol . 28 : 365-372 , 1970 ) . this behavior is inconsistent with linear viscoelasticity and has been interpreted in terms of plastoelasticity . we have reinvestigated this phenomenon in isolated lungs from 12 wistar rats by measuring 1 ) the changes in ptp after 0.5-ml step volume changes ( initial ptp of 5 cmh2o ) and 2 ) their response to sinusoidal pressure forcing from 0.01 to 0.67 hz ( 2 cmh2o peak to peak , mean ptp of 6 cmh2o ) . stress adaptation curves were found to fit approximately hildebrandt 's logarithmic model [ delta ptp/delta v = a - b.log ( t ) ] from 0.2 to 100 s , where delta v is the step volume change , a and b are coefficients , and t is time . a and b averaged 1.06 + / - 0.11 and 0.173 + / - 0.019 cmh2o/ml , respectively , with minor differences between stress relaxation and stress recovery curves . the response to sinusoidal forcing was characterized by the effective resistance ( re ) and elastance ( el ) . re decreased from 2.48 + / - 0.41 cmh2o.ml-1 . s at 0.01 hz to 0.18 + / - 0.03 cmh2o.ml-1 . s at 0.5 hz , and el increased from 0.99 + / - 0.10 to 1.26 + / - 0.20 cmh2o/ml on the same frequency range . these data were analyzed with the frequency-domain version of the same model , complemented by a newtonian resistance ( r ) to account for airway resistance : re = r + b / ( 9.2 f ) and el = a + 0.25 b + b . log 2 pi f , where f is the frequency . 
control of total peripheral resistance during hyperthermia in rats . to elucidate the effect of blood volume on the circulatory adjustment to heat stress , we studied alpha-chloralose-anesthetized rats at three levels of blood volume : normovolemia ( nbv ) , hypervolemia ( hbv ; +32 % plasma volume by isotonic albumin solution infusion ) , and hypovolemia ( lbv ; -16 % plasma volume by furosemide administration ) . body surface heating was performed with an infrared lamp to raise arterial blood temperature ( tb ) at the rate of approximately 0.1 degree c/min . before heating , central venous pressure ( cvp ) was significantly higher in hbv ( 0.41 + / - 0.25 mmhg ) and lower in lbv ( -1.44 + / - 0.22 mmhg ) than in nbv ( -0.41 + / - 0.10 mmhg ) . the tb at which cvp started to decrease was approximately 40 degrees c in hbv , approximately 41 degrees c in nbv , and approximately 42 degrees c in lbv , and it decreased by 1.53 + / - 0.14 , 1.92 + / - 0.24 , and 0.62 + / - 0.14 mmhg from 37 to 43 degrees c of tb in hbv , nbv , and lbv , respectively . stroke volume was closely correlated with cvp , and this relationship was not affected by tb . heart rate responses to the raised tb were similar among the three groups . mean arterial pressure ( map ) was not affected by blood volume modification or cvp and was maintained at preheating ( tb 37 degrees c ) level until tb rose to 40 degrees c. above this tb , map increased until tb reached 43 degrees c ( +30 -40 mmhg ) for all three groups . total peripheral resistance ( tpr ) was inversely correlated with cvp , and the slope of the linear relationship between tpr and cvp in lbv was three - to fourfold steeper than in nbv or hbv . 
modeling human performance in running . this paper focuses on the characteristics of a model interpreting the effect of training on athletic performance . the model theory is presented both mathematically and graphically . in the model , a systematically quantified impulse of training produces dual responses : fitness and fatigue . in the absence of training , both decay exponentially with time . with repetitive training , these responses satisfy individual recurrence equations . fitness and fatigue are combined in a simple linear difference equation to predict performance levels appropriate to the intensity of training being undertaken . significant observed correlation of model-predicted performance with a measure of actual performance during both training and tapering provides validation of the model for athletes and nonathletes alike . this enables specific model parameters to be estimated and can be used to optimize future training regimens for any individual . 
physiology of aging related to outcome in the adult respiratory distress syndrome . thirty-nine patients with adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) were enrolled in a study to identify potential age-related changes in organ system function that may help explain the apparent association between age and poor outcome in these patients . criteria for enrollment included an arterial po2-to-inspired o2 concentration ratio less than or equal to 200 in a clinical setting consistent with ards . patients were excluded if they were less than 18 yr old , had clinical manifestations of congestive heart failure , were seropositive for the human immunodeficiency virus , or had stage ii metastatic lung cancer . patients were divided into two groups : those less than 60 yr old ( mean 42 + / - 3 yr , n = 17 ) and those greater than or equal to 60 yr old ( 73 + / - 2 yr , n = 16 ) . a group of six patients was analyzed as a separate subset based on a body temperature less than or equal to 97.5 degrees f at enrollment ( hypothermic patients , 73 + / - 4 yr old ) . sepsis was present in 67 % of the nonhypothermic patients and in all the hypothermic patients . mortality rates were 12 % in the patients less than 60 yr and 69 % in the nonhypothermic patients greater than or equal to 60 yr . all the hypothermic patients died . sequential data obtained over 6 days were compared within and between groups . the following results were obtained . 1 ) the ratio of arterial po2 to inspired o2 fraction was greater and the positive end-expiratory pressure used was significantly less in the patients greater than or equal to 60 yr old compared with the younger group . 
muscle maximal o2 uptake at constant o2 delivery with and without co in the blood . in the present study we investigated the effects of carboxyhemoglobinemia ( hbco ) on muscle maximal o2 uptake ( vo2max ) during hypoxia . o2 uptake ( vo2 ) was measured in isolated in situ canine gastrocnemius ( n = 12 ) working maximally ( isometric twitch contractions at 5 hz for 3 min ) . the muscles were pump perfused at identical blood flow , arterial po2 ( pao2 ) and total hemoglobin concentration [ ( hb ] ) with blood containing either 1 % ( control ) or 30 % hbco . in both conditions pao2 was set at 30 torr , which produced the same arterial o2 contents , and muscle blood flow was set at 120 ml .100 g-1 . min-1 , so that o2 delivery in both conditions was the same . to minimize co diffusion into the tissues , perfusion with hbco-containing blood was limited to the time of the contraction period . vo2max was 8.8 + / - 0.6 ( se ) ml.min-1 .100 g-1 ( n = 12 ) with hypoxemia alone and was reduced by 26 % to 6.5 + / - 0.4 ml.min-1 .100 g-1 when hbco was present ( n = 12 ; p less than 0.01 ) . in both cases , mean muscle effluent venous po2 ( pvo2 ) was the same ( 16 + / - 1 torr ) . because pao2 and pvo2 were the same for both conditions , the mean capillary po2 ( estimate of mean o2 driving pressure ) was probably not much different for the two conditions , even though the o2 dissociation curve was shifted to the left by hbco . consequently the blood-to-mitochondria o2 diffusive conductance was likely reduced by hbco . 
mechanical deficit persists during long-term muscle hypertrophy . hypotheses were tested that the deficit in maximum isometric force normalized to muscle cross-sectional area ( i.e. , specific po , n/cm2 ) of hypertrophied muscle would return to control value with time and that the rate and magnitude of adaptation of specific force would not differ between soleus and plantaris muscles . ablation operations of the gastrocnemius and plantaris muscles or the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles were done to induce hypertrophy of synergistic muscle left intact in female wistar rats ( n = 47 ) at 5 wk of age . the hypertrophied soleus and plantaris muscles and control muscles from other age-matched rats ( n = 22 ) were studied from days 30 to 240 thereafter . po was measured in vitro at 25 degrees c in oxygenated krebs-ringer bicarbonate . compared with control values , soleus muscle cross-sectional area increased 41-15 % from days 30 to 240 after ablation , whereas po increased 11 and 15 % only at days 60 and 90 . compared with control values , plantaris muscle cross-sectional area increased 52 % at day 30 , 40 % from days 60 through 120 , and 15 % at day 240 . plantaris muscle po increased 25 % from days 30 to 120 but at day 240 was not different from control value . changes in muscle architecture were negligible after ablation in both muscles . specific po was depressed from 11 to 28 % for both muscles at all times . at no time after the ablation of synergistic muscle did the increased muscle cross-sectional area contribute fully to isometric force production . 
osteotomy for osteoarthritis of the hip . a survivorship analysis . we have reviewed 368 osteotomies carried out for osteoarthritis of the hip at the nuffield orthopaedic centre . survivorship analysis showed that 10 years after osteotomy 47 % had required no further surgery , and even after 20 years 23 % had still not had a hip replacement . hips with moderate arthritic change showed significantly better results than those with more severe degeneration . osteotomies with varus angulation as well as medial displacement showed longer survival . 
biomechanics of a double prosthetic ligament in the anterior cruciate deficient knee . we have assessed the biomechanical properties of a ' double-bundle ' prosthetic ligament replacing the anterior cruciate in cadaver knees . we compared the results with those of single bundle ' over-the-top ' and ' through-the-condyle ' techniques , performing anterior drawer tests at 20 degrees and 90 degrees knee flexion . the over-the-top reconstruction gave better anteroposterior stability at 20 degrees , while the through-the-condyle repair was more stable at 90 degrees . the double-bundle reconstruction gave practically normal anterior stability at both 20 degrees and 90 degrees . 
open reduction and fixation of proximal humeral fractures and fracture-dislocations . open reduction and internal fixation was employed in the treatment of 25 severely displaced fractures and fracture-dislocations of the proximal humerus . our aims were accurate reduction and stable fixation to allow early mobilisation and to achieve full functional recovery . in 15 fractures an ao t-plate was used and in 10 a bent semitubular plate was employed as a blade plate . excellent or satisfactory results were obtained in all six patients with two-part fractures involving the surgical neck ; in four of the five patients with three-part fractures involving the surgical neck and tuberosities ; in nine of the 11 patients with fracture-dislocation ; and in two of the three patients with split fractures of the humeral head . overall results were good or satisfactory in 21 of the 25 cases . unsatisfactory results were associated with rotator cuff damage . 
development of the hip in multiple epiphyseal dysplasia . natural history and susceptibility to premature osteoarthritis . we have determined the natural history of hip development in 42 patients with multiple epiphyseal dysplasia ( med ) . premature osteoarthritis was a frequent outcome and was almost inevitable before the age of 30 years in those with incongruent hips . there were two types of immature hips : type i , the more severe form , had a fragmented and flattened ossific nucleus and acetabular dysplasia , was misshapen at skeletal maturity and osteoarthritic by 30 years of age ; the milder type ii hip had a small , rounded , uniformly ossified nucleus and a more normal acetabulum . type ii hips were well formed at maturity and were less prone to premature osteoarthritis . considerable variations were noted in the manifestations of med between families but not within families . the prognosis of a child 's hip could be predicted ; in sporadic cases from the type of immature hip , and in familial cases by also taking into account the outcome of affected relatives . 
failed acromioplasty for impingement syndrome . we evaluated 67 shoulders in 65 patients who had pain and dysfunction for more than two years after an initial acromioplasty for impingement syndrome without a rotator cuff tear . in addition to a thorough history , physical examination , local anaesthesia injection and any other necessary investigations all patients had arthroscopic evaluation of the shoulder . in 27 shoulders there had been diagnostic errors , and in 28 operative errors ; only in 12 had the diagnosis and the operative procedure both been correct . subsequent operative intervention in patients not receiving worker 's compensation benefit had a 75 % success rate , whereas in those receiving such benefits the success rate was only 46 % . 
bone lysis in well-fixed cemented femoral components . we have reviewed 25 cases of focal femoral osteolysis in radiographically stable , cemented femoral implants . in three hips retrieved at post-mortem from two patients , we have been able to make a detailed biomechanical and histological analysis . the interval between arthroplasty and the appearance of focal osteolysis on clinical radiographs ranged from 40 to 168 months , and in over 70 % of the cases this did not appear until after five or more years . few had significant pain and there was no relation to age , sex or original diagnosis . the most common site for osteolysis were gruen zones 2 and 3 on the anteroposterior radiograph and zones 5 and 6 on the lateral radiograph . in 15 cases ( 60 % ) , the area of osteolysis corresponded to either a defect in the cement mantle or an area of very thin cement . the rate of progression of these lesions was variable , but to date only one has progressed to gross loosening of the femoral component . the back-scatter scanning electron microscopic examination of serial sections and biomechanical testing of the post-mortem specimens demonstrated focal cement fracture around implants that were otherwise rigidly fixed . in eight cases from which tissue was available , histology showed a histiocytic reaction with evidence of particulate polymethylmethacrylate . we consider that this local fragmentation was the stimulus for local osteolysis in an otherwise stable cemented femoral component . 
localised endosteal bone lysis in relation to the femoral components of cemented total hip arthroplasties . four cases are described of localised endosteal bone lysis in the femur occurring in association with cemented femoral components that were not obviously ' loose ' radiologically . in each , the area of lysis was shown at operation to be related directly to a region in which there was a local defect in the cement mantle surrounding the stem . via the space between the stem and cement , such defects provide a route through which the contents of the joint cavity may reach the endosteal surface of the femur , subsequently leading to localised bone lysis , and later to frank loosening . 
aggressive granulomatous lesions in cementless total hip arthroplasty . we describe six patients with aggressive granulomatous lesions around cementless total hip prostheses . two patients previously had a cemented prosthesis in the same hip . the lord prosthesis was used in five patients , the pca in one . both prostheses were made of chrome-cobalt alloy . pain on weight-bearing occurred on average 3.2 years after the cementless arthroplasty , and at that time radiography revealed aggressive granulomatosis around the proximal femoral stem and the acetabular component in five of the patients ; one had a large solitary granuloma in the proximal femur . revision was performed on average 4.8 years after the cementless arthroplasty . at that time all granulomas had grown large in size ; while waiting for revision operation , two femoral stem components fractured . all the granulomas showed a uniform histopathology , which included histiocytosis ; the cause for these lesions was thought to be plastic debris from the acetabular socket . 
macrophages stimulate bone resorption when they phagocytose particles . we investigated in vitro a mechanism by which particulate debris may induce bone resorption and cause implant loosening . we first studied two standard particles : latex , which is considered to be inert , and zymosan , which is inflammatory . macrophages that phagocytosed either particle became activated , and stimulated 15 times as much bone resorption as did control macrophages . for activation to occur , 100 times more latex than zymosan had to be phagocytosed . we also found that bone cement and polyethylene particles activated macrophages in a similar manner , and that the necessary amounts of these were intermediate between those of latex and zymosan . none of the particles were toxic . it was concluded that implant loosening may result from bone resorption stimulated by mediators released by macrophages that have phagocytosed particles of bone cement or polyethylene . 
cup containment and orientation in cemented total hip arthroplasties . we reviewed the radiographs of 864 charnley and sth ( zimmer ) cemented total hip arthroplasties with a mean follow-up of seven years ( maximum 16 years ) . survivorship analysis was used to assess the correlation between radiographic performance and the bony containment or the coronal orientation of the acetabular cup . the cup orientation and containment were interrelated ; all vertically oriented cups were completely contained , whereas 25 % of more horizontal cups were only partially contained . completely contained cups had significantly lower incidences of complete cement-bone radiolucency ( p = 0.02 ) and of wear ( p = 0.09 ) . vertically oriented cups had a lower incidence of continuous radiolucency than neutrally oriented cups , but this was not statistically significant ( p = 0.25 ) . our results confirm the importance of complete bony containment , and also indicate that it is better to accept vertical orientation and obtain full bony coverage than to have a more horizontal orientation with partial containment . 
effects of acute ethanol ingestion and burn injury on serum immunoglobulin . previous studies have found that acute ethanol ingestion before burn injury caused further impairment of mitogenic response of b lymphocytes compared with burn injury alone . the principal role of b lymphocytes is immunoglobulin production . this study was designed to determine the effect of acute ethanol ingestion on circulating immunoglobulin levels before injury . serum concentrations of igg , igm , and iga in rats were measured with the use of radial immunodiffusion plates at 4 days after a 30 % burn injury in animals that had received a single ingestion of 3.0 ml ethanol per kilogram of body weight . the immunoglobulin levels were compared with appropriate controls . a 30 % burn injury produced significant decreases in serum igg and iga levels but not in igm levels , whereas acute ethanol ingestion only decreased iga levels . acute ethanol ingestion before injury did not induce any further significant decrease than did burn injury alone . 
tissue-expanded radial forearm free flap in neck burn contracture . neck contracture after burn injury can result in severe functional as well as aesthetic deformities . contracture can recur even after wide and complete release and full-thickness skin grafting . recurrence is partly due to the inherent difficulties in both early postoperative immobilization and the required long-term splinting . when adjacent tissues are also burned , adequate local tissue for reconstruction may not be available ; therefore , free-tissue transfer may be necessary . the large surface area that is required after adequate release may be provided by tissue expansion before free-tissue transfer . in the case presented the use of tissue-expanded radial forearm free flap for the reconstruction of a recurrent neck contracture is described . 
differences in health status between older and younger homeless adults . the institute of medicine has placed a priority on determining the special health-care needs of elderly homeless persons . as part of a community-based study of 521 homeless adults in two beach communities of los angeles , we compared the demographic characteristics and health of older ( age rangek 50-78 , n = 61 ) and younger ( age range , 18-49 , n = 460 ) homeless individuals . compared with younger adults , older adults were more likely to be white ( 85 % versus 61 % ) , veterans ( 59 % versus 27 % ) , retired ( 36 % versus 3 % ) , and living in a vehicle ( 21 % versus 8 % ) . older adults were more likely to report having a chronic disease ( 69 % versus 49 % ) , functional disabilities , no informal social contacts during the previous month ( 49 % versus 27 % ) , observed high blood pressure ( 42 % versus 22 % ) , elevated creatinine ( 11 % versus 2 % ) , and elevated cholesterol ( 57 % versus 36 % ) . older adults were less likely to have a toothache ( 3 % versus 30 % ) , report psychotic symptoms ( 25 % versus 42 % ) , and to be illegal drug users ( 15 % versus 55 % ) . although they are chronologically younger , the constellation of health and functional problems of older homeless adults resemble those of geriatric persons in the general population . we suggest that geriatricians could play a significant role in training other primary-care providers to evaluate and treat socially isolated older homeless adults in a more comprehensive way than is currently standard in practice ( e.g. , interdisciplinary team care and emphasis on functional status , rehabilitative medicine , and assessment for sensory impairment ) . 
cimetidine 800 mg twice daily for healing erosions and ulcers in gastroesophageal reflux disease . although h2-receptor antagonists have been the mainstay of therapy for gastroesophageal reflux disease ( gerd ) , none of these agents has been approved by the fda as effective in healing lesions . since proton pump inhibitors may be associated with long-term disadvantages , a healing regimen with cimetidine would be useful clinically . this multicenter , randomized , double-blind study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of cimetidine 800 mg b.i.d. in healing lesions and in providing symptomatic relief in patients with ulcerative or erosive esophagitis . patients with greater than or equal to 8 heartburn episodes during a 1-week screening period , reflux confirmed by esophageal ph monitoring , and esophageal ulcers or erosions confirmed by endoscopy were randomized to treatment with placebo or cimetidine for 12 weeks . cimetidine provided significantly greater ( p less than 0.01 ) improvement ( 74 % vs. 51 % ) and complete healing ( 67 % vs. 36 % ) of esophageal lesions than did placebo . in these patients with erosive or ulcerative esophagitis , the median time to achieve 24 h without heartburn was 13 days with cimetidine and 30 days with placebo ( p = 0.01 ) . the mean heartburn severity score in the cimetidine group decreased rapidly during the first week and was consistently lower than in the placebo group . cimetidine , 800 mg twice daily , is effective in promoting healing of esophageal ulcers and erosions and in providing heartburn relief in patients with symptomatic erosive/ulcerative gerd . 
stress-related mucosal damage : review of drug therapy . the increased awareness of stress-related mucosal damage ( srmd ) that accompanied the widespread use of fiberoptic endoscopy and the increased incidence of srmd that accompanied the advances in caring for critically ill patients resulted in the recognition that the majority of patients in the intensive care unit ( icu ) setting wil develop mucosal damage . complications of gastrointestinal hemorrhage in these patients may contribute significantly to their morbidity and mortality , and the consequences of this bleeding may be more severe than the underlying predisposing conditions . because of the importance of gastric acid in the pathogenesis of srmd , therapy has focused on reduction of the intraluminal acid concentration . acid neutralization , while effective , is laborious and associated with side effects . h2-receptor antagonists have been used successfully in the prophylaxis and treatment of srmd and offer the potential for an effective parenteral as well as oral agent . they obviate the need for frequent antacid administration and eliminate some of the troubles and side effects that accompany an intensive antacid regimen . of the available h2-receptor antagonists , cimetidine has been the most thoroughly evaluated . it is equivalent to antacids in the prevention of overt bleeding and offers the advantage of dosing flexibility , ease of administration , and a remarkable safety profile . cimetidine has also been shown to be effective when administered by intermittent bolus infusions given every 8 , 6 , or 4 h or by primed continuous infusion , which has proven to be the most successful method of controlling intragastric ph. 
endoscopic control of upper gastrointestinal bleeding . it has been estimated that gastrointestinal ( gi ) bleeding occurs in more than 100,000 patients with peptic ulcer disease each year . in 75-80 % of the cases , bleeding will be self-limited . a major predictor of persistent or recurrent bleeding is the magnitude of blood loss before the initial evaluation . endoscopy has an important role in the evaluation of the patient with suspected or presumed upper gi bleeding . active bleeding at the time of the endoscopy correlates with the more likely probability of persistent bleeding , which carries a higher morbidity and mortality . in addition , there has been continued interest in the finding of a visible vessel . although there is some controversy as to what a visible vessel actually is and how closely observations will agree about its recognition , there is general agreement that it is an important endoscopic finding and that it carries a high likelihood of rebleeding . in addition to the finding of a visible vessel , many endoscopists feel that ulcers found in the posterior-inferior wall of the duodenal bulb and high on the lesser curve of the stomach should be considered in a separate category . owing to their proximity to large vessels , some feel that endoscopic management carries a greater risk because of the possibility of inducing bleeding . a wide variety of endoscopic approaches are available for the therapy of upper gi bleeding . it is convenient to divide these therapies into four categories : ( a ) topical , ( b ) injection , ( c ) mechanical , and ( d ) thermal . endoscopic therapy for bleeding ulcers has generally been performed with a high degree of safety . 
the gastrin hypothesis . implications for antisecretory drug selection . newer potent and long-acting inhibitors of acid secretion , such as the proton pump inhibitor omeprazole , are becoming available for general use . these drugs promise to control acid-peptic disease effectively in patients who do not respond adequately to conventional short-acting h2-receptor antagonists . the safety of chronic administration of these drugs has come into question , however . lifelong profound inhibition of acid secretion in rats induced by superpotent inhibitors of acid secretion or subtotal fundectomy is associated with the development of carcinoid tumors of enterochromaffin-like ( ecl ) cells in the gastric corpus . available evidence supports a role of gastrin , which becomes chronically elevated in animals subjected to prolonged and profound hypochlorhydria . in humans , hypergastrinemic states such as zollinger-ellison syndrome and atrophic gastritis are associated with an increased risk of ecl-cell carcinoid tumors . such observations have raised concern that humans may also be susceptible to carcinoid tumor formation in response to potent inhibitors of acid secretion . to date , however , no cases of carcinoid tumor have been attributed to the use of omeprazole in humans . if achlorhydric doses are not used , significant hypergastrinemia can be avoided while effectiveness of treatment is maintained . such measures should minimize any risk of ecl-cell carcinoid tumors in humans taking potent long-term antisecretory drugs . 
defective oral tolerance promotes nephritogenesis in experimental iga nephropathy induced by oral immunization . oral tolerance , an important feature of the mucosal immune system , appears to protect against immune-mediated disease by blunting production of systemic igg and igm antibody directed toward immunogens chronically present at mucosal surfaces . in this study , we explored the role of oral tolerance and mucosal immunoregulation in an experimental model of iga nephropathy ( igan ) , an important form of nephritis in humans . cyclophosphamide and estradiol were used to inhibit the expression of oral tolerance , which otherwise develops after chronic oral presentation of ag . balb/c mice given drinking water containing 0.1 % bovine gamma globulin ( bgg ) continuously for 14 wk were randomly assigned to groups given either 2 mg of cyclophosphamide i.p. , 2 mg of estradiol s.c. or both drugs . groups of control mice received neither bgg nor drugs . in three separate experiments , a low percentage of saline-treated orally immunized mice had microscopic hematuria ( 0 to 20 % ) , as did nonimmunized controls ( 0 to 20 % ) . however , 58 to 83 % of mice given estradiol and/or cyclophosphamide at appropriate times developed significant hematuria . if drugs were given at suboptimal times , only 25 to 56 % of mice developed hematuria . drug-treated immunized mice also had more serum igg and igm anti-bgg antibodies than control and saline groups . immunofluorescence showed significantly more glomerular deposits of igg , igm , and c3 in drug-treated immunized mice compared to saline-treated immunized and normal untreated control mice . hematuria and glomerular deposits of igg , igm , and c3 paralleled serum igg and igm antibody . all immunized mice showed significant mesangial iga and bgg deposits and there were no differences in such deposits between saline - and drug-treated immunized mice . we suggest that blunting of oral tolerance with promotion of systemic igg and igm antibody production leads to nephritis in chronically orally immunized mice and that glomerular immune complexes containing igg and/or igm promote complement deposition and hematuria in igan . analogous defects in oral ( or more generally mucosal ) tolerance could play a role in the genesis of symptomatic human igan . 
hemorrhage in mice produces alterations in pulmonary b cell repertoires . nosocomial pneumonia occurs frequently after hemorrhage and trauma and contributes to the increased incidence of morbidity and mortality after severe injury . the production of secretory antibodies by mucosally associated b cells is an important component of pulmonary host defense mechanisms . to determine the effects of hemorrhage on pulmonary b cell function , we examined hemorrhage induced alterations in pulmonary b cell repertoires . there were no changes in the relative distribution of t or b cells among intraparenchymal pulmonary lymphocytes after blood loss . hemorrhage induced decreases of between 5 - and 10-fold in the frequencies and numbers of pulmonary b cell clonal precursors specific for the bacterial ag levan and pseudomonas aeruginosa polysaccharide . these decreases in numbers and frequencies of bacterial ag-specific pulmonary b cell clonal precursors were present between 3 and 10 days after blood loss . similar decreases in numbers and frequencies were found among pulmonary clonal precursors specific for the autoantigen mouse transferrin , but not for the autoantigen dsdna or the external antigens ova and keyhole limpet hemocyanin . these results demonstrate that hemorrhage produces marked alterations in pulmonary b cell repertoires , which may contribute to postinjury abnormalities in host defenses . 
tumefactive fibroinflammatory lesions of the head and neck . the term ' tumefactive fibroinflammatory lesion ' has been used to describe a fibrosclerosing disorder which has a locally destructive nature but is characterized by a benign histological appearance . we report five patients , over a five year period , with such a lesion . the clinical behaviour and surgical findings suggest the lesion to be an invasive malignancy . however , the histological appearance of an admixture of chronic inflammatory cells and fibrosis is consistent with a benign condition . we recommend surgical excision of the lesion as the mainstay of treatment ; other studies report the use of steroids and radiotherapy . 
chronic sinusitis and the yellow nail syndrome . diagnosing syndromes that include chronic sinusitis can expedite the management of both conditions . yellow nail syndrome is usually described as the combination of yellow nails , lymphoedema and often respiratory manifestations such as chronic sinusitis , bronchiectasis and pleural effusions . the pathology responsible for the syndrome is believed to be lymphatic hypoplasia . diagnosis of yellow nail syndrome is clinical not requiring any specialized tests . in the two cases described , the respiratory tract manifestations required the most active investigation and management . the significance of this syndrome to the otolaryngologist is discussed . 
parapharyngeal abscess and torticollis . the combination of a parapharyngeal abscess and torticollis in an adult , due to a spastic contraction of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle is an extremely rare condition . we have recently been exposed to such case , in which it was very difficult to make the diagnosis and where ct of the neck gave us the answers without any difficulty . the indication for ct at an early stage in unexplained neck infections is stressed . 
outcome of pregnancies experienced during residency . to investigate potential adverse effects of residency training on pregnancy outcome , a cohort study was conducted among 45 university-affiliated residency programs . outcomes of the first pregnancy experienced during residency were compared between 92 female residents and 144 spouses of male residents . despite long hours , sleep deprivation , and an increase in perceived stress , the female residents were as likely to give birth to a live , full-term newborn as the spouses of male residents . for white cohort members , an increased risk of premature labor without delivery was identified ( rr = 12.3 , 95 % confidence interval 2.4-61 .6 ) . no significant differences were found in prematurity , spontaneous and therapeutic abortions , or presence of congenital abnormalities in the infants . method of delivery and use of anesthetics and of other medications were similar in both groups . pregnancy outcomes between the two groups were similar ; however , the increased risk for premature labor among female residents is a cause for concern and should be further investigated . 
transcranial electrical motor evoked potentials as a prognostic indicator for motor recovery in stroke patients . transcranial electrical motor evoked potentials ( mep ) were examined in 33 patients within three days after stroke . normal values for mep and motor central conduction time ( cct ) were obtained in 46 healthy controls whose meps were evaluated during slight voluntary muscle contraction and at rest . two months later 23 patients were re-examined clinically and electrophysiologically . motor function change was correlated with mep results . two months after stroke the patients with normal or prolonged cct had an improved motor function compared with those with absent cct . mep may be a valuable prognostic indicator in the acute stage of paralytic stroke for recovery of motor function . 
parkinsonian tremor loses its alternating aspect during non-rem sleep and is inhibited by rem sleep . non-rem sleep transforms the waking alternating parkinsonian tremor into subclinical repetitive muscle contractions whose amplitude and duration decrease as non-rem sleep progresses from stages i to iv . during rem sleep parkinsonian tremor disappears while the isolated muscle events increase significantly . 
eosinophilic meningitis : cause of a chronic pain syndrome . three tourists developed eosinophilic meningitis after visiting the fijian islands . two had a severe and long lasting illness with chronic intractable pain . in one patient electrophysiological studies and mri scan of the brain were abnormal and provided evidence of both radicular and cerebral parenchymal involvement by the most likely causative agent , angiostrongylus cantonensis . 
rigid spine syndrome with respiratory failure . the pathogenesis and therapy of respiratory failure in the rigid spine syndrome are discussed in two cases who improved with respiratory assistance . in both cases , the partial pressures of oxygen and carbon dioxide were reversed in arterial blood gas analysis and % vc was less than 30 % . remission from respiratory failure has been obtained by the use of a ventilator during the night . the cause of the respiratory failure in both cases was severe restrictive respiratory dysfunction due to extreme flattening of the chest and fixation of the thorax during respiration as a result of contracture of costovertebral joints . all the previously reported cases of the rigid spine syndrome with respiratory failure died . appropriate use of the ventilator can improve the prognosis . 
learning a unimanual motor skill by partial commissurotomy patients . a series of motor tests on four chinese partial commissurotomy patients is reported . the single-stage commissurotomy in all four patients included the anterior commissures and two-thirds or four-fifths section of the corpus callosum with sparing of the splenium . there was no demonstrable ability to transfer hand posture in these patients . this was the major evidence for functional deconnexion . a newly learned task of one-hand knotting revealed right hand impairment in all four patients . there was no dyspraxia in the right hand for over-learned object-handling tasks in these patients . it is suggested that there might be right hemisphere specialisation for the initial acquisition of unimanual object-handling skills and that the spared callosal fibres in the splenium alone are insufficient to mediate task control under these conditions . this is supported by the finding that one of these patients , who was the only one who had a right parietal lesion , was unable to perform the newly learned task with either hand . 
sudden infant death syndrome in infants of substance-abusing mothers . a population-based study was performed to determine whether substance abuse during the perinatal period may be a risk factor for sudden infant death syndrome ( sids ) . the incidence of sids was studied in 2143 infants of substance-abusing mothers ( isam ) born in los angeles county during 1986 and 1987 who were reported to the los angeles county department of health services because of a history of drug exposure or positive urine test results in the mother , infant , or both . by comparing the isam birth reports with records of autopsy-proven sids in los angeles county , we found 19 sids cases in the population of 2143 isam , a sids rate of 8.87 cases per 1000 isam ( 95 % confidence interval 5.3 to 13.8 ) . this was significantly higher than the sids rate for the non-isam general population : 396 sids deaths among 325,372 live births , an incidence rate of 1.22 cases per 1000 births , p less than 0.00001 . the age of isam at death was 99 + / - 63 ( mean + / - sd ) days compared with 91 + / - 52 days for the non-isam population ( not significant ) . the incidence of sids was significantly greater in male infants , during the winter months , in black infants , and in non-hispanic white infants in the non-isam population . such differences were not observed in the isam group . a greater incidence of symptomatic apnea was reported before sids for the isam than for the non-isam population ( 22 % vs 5.4 % , p = 0.022 ) . we conclude that isam have a higher incidence of sids than the non-isam general population . however , it was not possible to separate maternal substance abuse from other confounding variables that may also have had an impact on sids risk in the isam group . 
adult height in boys and girls with untreated short stature and constitutional delay of growth and puberty : accuracy of five different methods of height prediction . to determine how accurately several methods of height prediction estimate adult height , we compared height predictions calculated by the bayley-pinneau , roche-wainer-thissen ( rwt ) , target height , and tanner-whitehouse mark i ( tw-mi ) , and mark ii ( tw-mii ) methods with final adult height in 37 boys and 32 girls with short stature and constitutional delay of growth and puberty . they were first seen at a chronologic age ( mean + / - sd ) of 14.80 + / - 1.70 years ( boys ) and 12.87 + / - 2.56 years ( girls ) . adult height at 23.14 + / - 1.95 years and 21.05 + / - 2.02 years was 170.4 + / - 5.4 cm ( boys ) and 157.8 + / - 4.2 cm ( girls ) , respectively , and thus within the lower range of normal . height predictions were calculated for the total group and for patients with parents of normal ( group 1 ) as well as short stature ( group 2 ) . for boys , the rwt method gave very accurate results , underestimating adult height by -0.6 cm for the total group . the prediction errors for the other methods were -7.3 cm ( tw-mi ) , -4.2 cm ( tw-mii ) , and +3.1 cm ( bayley-pinneau method ) or +1.7 cm ( target height ) . for girls , no method was superior in estimating adult height . the mean prediction error was -0.8 cm , -2.1 cm , and -1.8 cm with the bayley-pinneau , tw-mi , and tw-mii methods , respectively . in contrast , adult height was overpredicted by +2.3 cm and +1.2 cm with the rwt and target height methods . we conclude that patients with short stature and constitutional delay of growth and puberty reach an adult height in the lower range of normal . height prediction methods differ with respect to their accuracy and their tendency to overestimate or underestimate adult height . 
antenatal phenobarbital for the prevention of periventricular and intraventricular hemorrhage : a double-blind , randomized , placebo-controlled , multihospital trial . to determine whether the neuroprotective properties of phenobarbital would alter the incidence and severity of intracranial hemorrhage in premature infants , we randomly assigned 110 women at less than 31 weeks of gestation to receive 10 mg/kg phenobarbital or placebo in a blinded fashion before delivery . infants were examined postnatally with real-time ultrasonography for evidence of intracranial hemorrhage . maternal demographics , pregnancy complications , antenatal management , and route of delivery did not differ between the phenobarbital group ( n = 50 ) and the placebo group ( n = 60 ) . the total incidence of periventricular-intraventricular hemorrhage did not differ between the phenobarbital-treated ( n = 54 ) and the placebo-treated ( n = 67 ) infants . however , the frequency of grade 3 and grade 4 hemorrhages was 15 % ( 10 infants ) in the placebo group and 3.7 % ( 2 infants ) in the phenobarbital group ( p less than 0.05 ) . there were no differences in the severity of associated conditions in the babies to explain the difference in the incidence of severe hemorrhage between the study groups . we conclude that antenatal administration of phenobarbital appears to be effective in decreasing the severity of periventricular-intraventricular hemorrhage in infants delivered at less than 31 weeks of gestation . 
high-frequency oscillatory ventilation compared with conventional intermittent mechanical ventilation in the treatment of respiratory failure in preterm infants : neurodevelopmental status at 16 to 24 months of postterm age . the hifi study group . the high-frequency intervention trial was a 10-center randomized clinical trial to test the efficacy and safety of high-frequency oscillatory ventilation ( hfo ) in the treatment of neonates weighing 750 to 2000 gm ; 327 infants were assigned to hfo and 346 to conventional intermittent mechanical ventilation ( imv ) . survival and lung morbidity rates were the same in the two groups . bayley psychometric evaluations and cns examination were performed at 16 to 24 months of postterm age in 77 % of the survivors ( 185 hfo and 201 imv ) . there was no difference in growth or respiratory status at follow-up . cerebral palsy was diagnosed in 19 ( 10 % ) hfo-treated infants and 23 ( 11 % ) imv-treated infants . there was no difference in severity between the two groups . a significantly higher incidence of hydrocephalus ( 12 % vs 6 % ) was present in the hfo group ( p less than 0.05 ) . bayley index scores greater than 83 were scored in 57 % of hfo-treated infants compared with 66 % of imv-treated infants . the proportion of children at follow-up with a normal neuro-developmental status ( i.e. , bayley score greater than 83 and no major cns defect ) was significantly less in the hfo than in the imv group ( 54 vs 65 % ; p less than 0.05 ) . both treatment groups showed a strong association between the presence of grade 3 or 4 intraventricular hemorrhage and the development of major cns or cognitive defects . no significant long-term beneficial or deleterious effects were demonstrated in the use of hfo versus imv for the treatment of respiratory failure in low birth weight premature infants , except that there were slightly more neurologic deficits in the hfo group related to the higher proportion of survivors with major intraventricular hemorrhage . 
effect of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation on survival of infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia . to determine the effect of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ecmo ) on the survival of infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia , we undertook a retrospective review of 31 infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia treated at children 's national medical center . infants were categorized by means of the bohn quadrant analysis to determine the impact of ecmo on infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia and a " poor prognosis . " all infants assigned to the bohn 100 % mortality quadrant required ecmo . the survival rate in this group was 86 % ( 6/7 ) when assessed preoperatively and 67 % ( 6/9 ) when assessed postoperatively . comparison of the change occurring in ventilation index and arterial carbon dioxide pressure demonstrated that after repair the clinical condition of 48 % of infants deteriorated , 40 % improved , and 12 % remained unchanged . of the 12 infants whose condition was worse after surgery , 11 eventually required ecmo . our review demonstrates that ecmo improved survival significantly in infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia who had a " poor prognosis " by the criteria of bohn et al . we recommend consideration of ecmo for all infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia for whom maximal medical therapy has failed . 
prochlorperazine and transdermal scopolamine added to a metoclopramide antiemetic regimen . a controlled comparison . cisplatin-induced nausea and vomiting occurs both acutely and over a prolonged period of time . these symptoms may be incapacitating and are frequently given as a reason to discontinue therapy . we compared prochlorperazine and transdermal scopolamine when added to a standardized metoclopramide antiemetic regimen . twenty-seven patients receiving cisplatin at 100 mg/m2 were randomly assigned to one of the two treatment arms . patients were observed during chemotherapy and answered a standard questionnaire 24-26 hours later . among similar treatment groups no differences were seen regarding the number of emetic events , level of nausea , degree of sedation or overall acceptability of one treatment arm or another . while not superior to prochlorperazine , transdermal scopolamine is a useful antiemetic agent and can be combined with metoclopramide in an attempt to reduce cisplatin-induced nausea and vomiting . further evaluation of this approach is needed . 
obesity and vaginal hysterectomy . a retrospective study was done of 471 consecutive vaginal hysterectomies done in a three-year period . three groups of patients -- 239 normal to 9 % overweight , 132 10-24 % overweight and 100 greater than or equal to 25 % overweight -- were compared . surgical difficulties were similar in all three groups . the more obese patient had a slightly greater incidence of febrile morbidity , stayed one day longer in the hospital and had a minimally greater loss of hemoglobin 48 hours postoperatively . however , obesity per se caused few problems during and after vaginal hysterectomy . the vaginal approach is the procedure of choice for hysterectomy in obese women . 
vaginitis emphysematosa . a report of four cases . it has been hypothesized that vaginitis emphysematosa is a manifestation of trichomonal or gardnerella infection . in support of this etiologic concept , four cases of the disorder are described showing the apparent curative effect of treating the associated infection . the linkage of these and other reported cases with conditions of impaired immunity suggests that immunologic factors are involved in the pathogenesis . 
hypoplastic transverse arch and coarctation in neonates . surgical reconstruction of the aortic arch : a study of sixty-six patients . from jan . 1 , 1983 , to jan . 1 , 1988 , 66 consecutive neonates with coarctation and severe hypoplasia of the transverse arch underwent coarctation repair by resection of the coarctation and reconstruction of the aortic arch . mean age at operation was 14 + / - 8 days , ranging from 2 to 30 days ; 63 % of the newborn infants were less than 2 weeks of age . the coarctation was isolated in 23 % , associated with a ventricular septal defect in 39 % , and associated with complex anomalies in 38 % , including 16 cases of transposition of the great arteries or doublet-outlet right ventricle plus ventricular septal defect , two cases of simple transposition , two of corrected transposition plus ventricular septal defect , and five cases of " hypoplastic " left ventricle . the surgical technique comprises a wide resection of the coarctation extended to the contiguous ductal tissue followed by the reconstruction of the aortic arch in bringing the descending aorta into the concavity of the aortic arch . this technique is able to relieve the obstruction of the aortic arch provided that ( 1 ) the descending aorta is widely dissected to allow mobilization and ( 2 ) the incision of the transverse arch is extended proximal to the ostium of the left carotid artery . the operation was performed through a left thoracotomy in 62 patients and through a sternotomy in four additional neonates with transposition and ventricular septal defect who underwent a one-stage repair with aortic reconstruction , closure of the defect , and arterial switch . the overall early mortality rate ( less than 30 days ) was 14 % ( 9/66 ; 95 % confidence limits = 5 % to 22 % ) , including four deaths occurring within the first month , at a concomitant or subsequent repair of the associated anomaly . there were six late deaths , all related to the associated lesions . the overall mortality rate was 23 % ( 15/66 ; 95 % confidence limits = 13 % to 33 % ) . the mean follow-up was 21 + / - 10 months , ranging from 6 to 66 months . actuarial survival rates at 5 years are 72 % + / - 10 % for the overall group ; 87 % + / - 17 % for simple coarctation ; 88 % + / - 12 % for coarctation and ventricular septal defect ; and 52 % + / - 18 % for complex coarctation . the rate of recurrent coarctation was 12.5 % ( 95 % confidence limits = 2 % to 23 % ) , leading to five reoperations with no deaths . freedom from reoperation was 89.5 % + / - 9 % at 5 years . this technique of coarctation repair offers several advantages : low operative mortality , complete relief of the left ventricular obstruction , wide resection of the ductus tissue , absence of prosthetic material , and preservation of the left subclavian artery . 
national survey of the pattern of care for carcinoma of the lung . a national survey of the patterns of care for carcinoma of the lung sponsored by the commission on cancer of the american college of surgeons has documented continuing changes in epidemiology , treatment , and outcome . the project consisted of a long-term study of 15,219 patients whose diagnosis was made in 1981 and a short-term study of 19,074 patients whose diagnosis was made in 1986 . the male/female incidence ratios have continued to decrease and the decrease has moved into the older age groups . although the percentage of adenocarcinoma is increasing at the expense of squamous carcinoma , the latter is still the most prevalent histologic type . the accuracy of percutaneous needle biopsy and transbronchial biopsy of lung nodules reported from this group of 941 hospitals was high and equal to that reported by single institutions . the percentage of patients having a resection did not increase from 1981 to 1986 , but for smaller lesions a move was apparent toward more lung-sparing resections . little change has occurred in the use of adjuvant radiotherapy , particularly in stage iii disease , where approximately 50 % of the patients received postoperative irradiation . an improvement in the overall 5-year survival when compared with surveillance , epidemiology , and end results data was noted . whether this is a true improvement in survival or is the result of selection because of an unrecognized change in the pattern of care for patients with a carcinoma of the lung is unknown . 
studies of myocardial protection in the immature heart . i. enhanced tolerance of immature versus adult myocardium to global ischemia with reference to metabolic differences . this study compares the metabolism and functional responses of adult and immature hearts to a standard ischemic insult . ten adult dogs ( 25 to 27 kg ) and 10 puppies ( 6 to 10 weeks old ) underwent 45 minutes of aortic clamping on bypass . preoperative and postoperative ventricular performance ( starling curves ) , biochemical factors , and water content were measured . global ischemia in adults produced a 30 % mortality rate ( 3/10 ) and low output syndrome in survivors ( 33 % recovery of stroke work index ) . conversely , all puppies survived and stroke work index returned to 85 % of control , with less edema developing ( 0.4 % versus 2 % water gain , p less than 0.05 ) . puppies expended comparable glycogen stores but used more glutamate ( 15.4 versus 8.6 mumol/gm dry weight ) , produced more alanine ( 18.9 versus 6.4 mumol , p less than 0.05 ) , succinate ( 19 versus 8.2 mumol , p less than 0.05 ) , and malate ( 2.6 versus 0.15 mumol , p less than 0.05 ) during ischemia , and recovered better postischemic aerobic metabolism ( 410 versus 255 nmol tissue pyruvate , p less than 0.05 ) . we conclude that tolerance of immature hearts to ischemia is related to amino acid utilization by transamination and increased substrate level phosphorylation , as occurring in diving mammals , suggesting retention of intrautero adaptive mechanisms . 
long-term cardiopulmonary bypass by peripheral cannulation in a model of total heart failure . the decompression of the left heart through a percutaneous helical spring positioned within the lumen of the tricuspid and pulmonary artery valves . we performed long-term closed-chest cardiopulmonary bypass in an animal model of total heart failure ( induced ventricular fibrillation ) . the extracorporeal system included a venous reservoir , a roller pump , a membrane lung , and a blood pulsator system . we cannulated the right external jugular vein for venous drainage and the right subclavian artery for arterial return . to decompress the left heart we passed by percutaneous cannulation a special helical spring mounted on a swan-ganz catheter ( baxter edwards divisions , irvine , calif. ) and positioned it to rest within the pulmonary artery and tricuspid valves , which rendered them partly incompetent . after induced ventricular fibrillation , blood flow was raised to keep the central venous pressure at baseline values . the lungs were ventilated with 5 % carbon dioxide in room air . during bypass , mean pulmonary artery pressure was 10.0 + / - 1.7 mm hg , mean wedge pressure 11.9 + / - 1.8 mm hg , and mean blood pressure 95.2 + / - 5.6 mm hg . after 2 days ( four animals ) and 3 days ( two animals ) the hearts were defibrillated . there was immediate ejection from both sides of the heart . all sheep were weaned from bypass within 29 + / - 11 minutes and their lungs were ventilated with room air within 42 + / - 34 minutes . at autopsy hearts and lungs grossly appeared normal . we conclude that the percutaneous helical spring resting within right heart valves provided excellent decompression throughout the study , with full recovery of heart and lung function on defibrillation . 
chancroid and the role of genital ulcer disease in the spread of human retroviruses . chancroid is the most prevalent form of genital ulcer disease in developing countries and is undergoing a resurgence in industrialized countries . as a result of a nonspecificity of the clinical findings , the etiologic diagnosis of genital ulcer disease requires laboratory support . genital ulcer disease is a risk factor for the transmission of human retroviral infections . an understanding of this interaction is emerging and will impact on the treatment and control programs for the agents causing genital ulcer disease . 
genital herpes simplex virus infections . there has been a dramatic increase in patient visits to physicians for evaluation and treatment of genital herpes infections . this has resulted in part from an increase in genital herpes infections , particularly severe , first-episode genital herpes infections in adults without prior hsv-1 infection . virus culture remains the most sensitive and specific method for diagnosis , and use of viral cultures is encouraged . type-specific antibody tests have been employed in studies documenting the role of asymptomatic shedding of hsv in transmission of genital infections , the role of genital hsv in transmission of hiv , the predominance of asymptomatic and unrecognized infections in those infected with hsv-2 , and the presence of past asymptomatic or unrecognized acquisition of hsv-2 in 25 % of persons presenting with first-episode genital herpes . unfortunately , commercially available serologic tests do not reliably differentiate between antibody to hsv-1 and hsv-2 . recent studies suggest that the annual risk of transmission from a sexual partner with genital herpes is about 10 % in heterosexual couples . currently , promotion of " safe sex " is the only available approach for prevention of transmission . however , ongoing research is focused on the development of an effective vaccine . acyclovir should be used routinely in persons with first-episode genital herpes , but careful evaluation is needed in persons with recurrent genital herpes to determine whether episodic or suppressive treatment is indicated . acyclovir should also be used routinely for episodic or suppressive treatment of hsv infections in persons with aids . additional antiviral agents are needed for more effective suppressive therapy and for treatment of acv-resistant hsv infections in the immunocompromised host . 
approach to men with urethritis and urologic complications of sexually transmitted diseases . the most important causes of urethritis , and epididymitis in younger men , are c. trachomatis and n. gonorrhoeae . management of these syndromes requires a thorough sexual history , genital examination , evaluation for objective and laboratory evidence of infection , antimicrobial therapy directed toward the major etiologies , and evaluation and treatment of sexual partners . treatment of n. gonorrhoeae requires use of a single-dose regimen active against this organism , plus a 7 - to 10-day tetracycline regime active against c. trachomatis and nongonococcal urethritis . with recommended regimens , microbiologic failure is infrequent in compliant patients . recurrent urethritis is frequent , however . the management of patients with persistent or recurrent symptoms requires careful reevaluation of the patient , documentation of urethritis , and re-treatment with antimicrobials if urethritis is documented by positive cultures or increased numbers of polymorphonuclear leukocytes in urethral secretions . additional treatment beyond this point usually is not indicated , even though a proportion of men will remain symptomatic and some of these will have increased numbers of polymorphonuclear leukocytes in urethral secretions . the most important causes of prostatitis , and epididymitis in older men or men with urethral structural abnormalities , are classical urinary tract pathogens rather than sexually transmitted pathogens . management of these infections includes documentation of the infection and treatment directed toward the specific pathogen . men with symptoms of " prostatitis " must be evaluated using both urine and prostatic secretions to document infection and inflammation . the majority of men with such symptoms do not have an infection that can be documented . these men respond poorly to medications . men with documented chronic bacterial prostatitis require long courses of antimicrobials to effect cure . in some cases , however , the disease is intractable , and chronic suppression with antimicrobials may be necessary . 
approach to the patient with genital ulcer disease . the three major diseases characterized by genital ulcers -- genital herpes , syphilis , and chancroid -- are common , with genital herpes being most common in industrialized countries and chancroid being most common in developing countries . one fourth to one half of patients with genital ulcers have no diagnosed cause for their illness despite diagnostic efforts . the bulk of these cases is probably constituted by one of the three diseases for which diagnostic tests are falsely negative . there is accumulating evidence that genital ulcers facilitate the transmission of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) , and they may also be markers of high-risk behavior for acquisition of hiv . appropriate therapy of patients with genital ulcers ( as well as their sexual partners ) depends on accurate diagnosis . patients with genital ulcers , particularly those with syphilis or chancroid , should be encouraged to undergo testing for hiv infection . 
vaginal infections in adult women . often trivialized by the medical profession , vaginitis in adult women is not only extremely common but is the source of considerable distress and often results in marked suffering . epidemiologic studies described in this article indicate the high prevalence of vaginitis and the large number of causes . although the majority of infections in women are due to bacterial vaginosis , vvc , and trichomoniasis , it is clear that many other causes exist , and we have yet to discover the etiology of many clinical syndromes . considerable progress has been made in understanding the pathogenesis of the three common vaginitides . although excellent progress has been made by the pharmaceutical industry in providing new drugs for vaginitis , any further progress will require a better understanding of etiology and pathogenesis . vaginitis causes major symptoms and is more than a nuisance problem . clinicians owe it to their patients to attempt to make an accurate diagnosis and not to rely on empiric therapy . 
a randomized , double-blind trial of nystatin therapy for the candidiasis hypersensitivity syndrome background . candida albicans infection has been proposed to cause a chronic hypersensitivity syndrome characterized by fatigue , premenstrual tension , gastrointestinal symptoms , and depression . long-term antifungal therapy has been advocated as treatment for the syndrome , which is most often diagnosed in women with persistent or recurrent candida vaginitis . methods . to determine the efficacy of nystatin therapy for presumed candidiasis hypersensitivity syndrome , we conducted a 32-week randomized , double-blind , cross-over study using four different combinations of nystatin or placebo given orally or vaginally in 42 premenopausal women who met present criteria for the syndrome and had a history of candida vaginitis . the outcomes studied were the changes from base line in scores for vaginal , systemic , and overall symptoms and in the results of standardized psychological tests . results . the three active-treatment regimens ( oral and vaginal nystatin , oral nystatin and vaginal placebo , and oral placebo and vaginal nystatin ) and the all-placebo regimen significantly reduced both vaginal and systemic symptoms ( p less than 0.001 ) , but nystatin did not reduce the systemic symptoms significantly more than placebo . on average , the scores for systemic symptoms improved 25 percent with the three active-treatment regimens and 23 percent with the all-placebo regimen , a difference of only 2 percent ( 95 percent confidence interval , -3 to 7 percent ) . as expected , the three active-treatment regimens were more effective than placebo in relieving vaginal symptoms ( p less than 0.001 ) . all four regimens reduced psychological symptoms and global indexes of distress ; there were no significant differences among the treatment regimens . conclusions . in women with presumed candidiasis hypersensitivity syndrome , nystatin does not reduce systemic or psychological symptoms significantly more than placebo . consequently , the empirical recommendation of long-term nystatin therapy for such women appears to be unwarranted . 
reduced allergen-induced nasal congestion and leukotriene synthesis with an orally active 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor background and methods . the clinical importance of leukotrienes in human allergy has not been defined , in part because there have been no selective 5-lipoxygenase inhibitors that have been effective and safe for use in humans . to address the hypothesis that stimulated leukotriene synthesis causes symptoms of immediate-hypersensitivity reactions in vivo , i investigated the effects of a new 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor , a-64077 , on provoked allergic nasal symptoms and mediator release in a double-blind , randomized , placebo-controlled study . eight subjects with allergic rhinitis underwent nasal challenge on two occasions after an oral dose of 800 mg of a-64077 or an identical-appearing placebo . results . allergen-induced nasal congestion was significantly attenuated ( p less than 0.02 ) by a-64077 ; peak levels of leukotriene b4 ( median , 684 pg per milliliter ) and 5-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid ( median , 704 pg per milliliter ) in nasal-rinse fluids were markedly reduced ( to 67 and 185 pg per milliliter , respectively ; p less than 0.01 ) , whereas levels of prostaglandin d2 were not . histamine release and sneezing were not reduced significantly by a-64077 , but there was a significant correlation ( p less than 0.01 ) between the changes in these variables within subjects . the mean ( + / - sem ) stimulated synthesis of leukotriene b4 in whole blood ex vivo was markedly reduced by a-64077 ( from 153 + / - 19 to 20 + / - 9 ng per milliliter , p less than 0.01 ) , and the specificity of a-64077 for 5-lipoxygenase inhibition was verified by its lack of effect on the synthesis of serum thromboxane b2 or 12-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid . conclusions . these results provide direct evidence of an important role for the 5-lipoxygenase products of arachidonic acid in allergic rhinitis and support the notion that further experiments in this area may lead to new therapeutic approaches to allergic disorders . 
association of perioperative myocardial ischemia with cardiac morbidity and mortality in men undergoing noncardiac surgery . the study of perioperative ischemia research group background . adverse cardiac events are a major cause of morbidity and mortality after noncardiac surgery . it is necessary to determine the predictors of these outcomes in order to focus efforts on prevention and treatment . patients undergoing noncardiac surgery sometimes have postoperative cardiac events . it would be helpful to know which patients are at highest risk . methods . we prospectively studied 474 men with coronary artery disease ( 243 ) or at high risk for it ( 231 ) who were undergoing elective noncardiac surgery . we gathered historical , clinical , laboratory , and physiologic data during hospitalization and for 6 to 24 months after surgery . myocardial ischemia was assessed by continuous electrocardiographic monitoring , beginning two days before surgery and continuing for two days after . results . eighty-three patients ( 18 percent ) had postoperative cardiac events in the hospital that were classified as ischemic events ( cardiac death , myocardial infarction , or unstable angina ) ( 15 patients ) , congestive heart failure ( 30 ) , or ventricular tachycardia ( 38 ) . postoperative myocardial ischemia occurred in 41 percent of the monitored patients and was associated with a 2.8-fold increase in the odds of all adverse cardiac outcomes ( 95 percent confidence interval , 1.6 to 4.9 ; p less than 0.0002 ) and a 9.2-fold increase in the odds of an ischemic event ( 95 percent confidence interval , 2.0 to 42.0 ; p less than 0.004 ) . multivariate analysis showed no other clinical , historical , or perioperative variable to be independently associated with ischemic events , including cardiac-risk index , a history of previous myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure , or the occurrence of ischemia before or during surgery . conclusions . in high-risk patients undergoing noncardiac surgery , early postoperative myocardial ischemia is an important correlate of adverse cardiac outcomes . 
non-vesicular release of glutamate from glial cells by reversed electrogenic glutamate uptake . glutamate uptake into nerve and glial cells usually functions to keep the extracellular glutamate concentration low in the central nervous system . but one component of glutamate release from neurons is calcium-independent , suggesting a non-vesicular release that may be due to a reversal of glutamate uptake . the activity of the electrogenic glutamate uptake carrier can be monitored by measuring the membrane current it produces , and uptake is activated by intracellular potassium ions . here we report that raising the potassium concentration around glial cells evokes an outward current component produced by reversed glutamate uptake . this current is activated by intracellular glutamate and sodium , inhibited by extracellular glutamate and sodium , and increased by membrane depolarization . these results demonstrate a non-vesicular mechanism for the release of glutamate from glial cells and neurons . this mechanism may contribute to the neurotoxic rise in extracellular glutamate concentration during brain anoxia . 
internuclear ophthalmoplegia in the chiari type ii malformation . we describe 3 cases of chiari type ii malformation presenting with bilateral internuclear ophthalmoplegia ( ino ) . although prominent , the ino was not an isolated sign in any of the patients ; superimposed abduction paresis was present in 2 , and deficits in smooth pursuit , optokinetic nystagmus , and vestibulo-ocular responses were present in 3 . two had hydrocephalus : 1 was clinically unchanged without therapy after 5 years ; the other did not improve with shunting . findings in our 3 patients , along with the 4 previously reported , confirm that ino is 1 manifestation of widespread brainstem or cerebellar dysfunction . its origin is probably multifactorial , related to hydrocephalus , vascular compromise , direct neuronal distortion , or congenital neural malformation . 
defective dystrophin in duchenne and becker dystrophy myotubes in cell culture . we examined normal and dystrophic human myotubes in cell culture for expression of dystrophin , the protein product of the duchenne muscular dystrophy locus . dystrophin levels in developing myotubes detected by western blotting increased after 24 hours and reached maximum levels after 10 days in fusion medium . we did not detect dystrophin in myotubes cultured from duchenne myoblasts ( 7 cases ) . myotubes from a becker muscular dystrophy patient 's biopsy produced a lower molecular weight ( approximately 408 kd ) dystrophin , which was the same size in a whole muscle preparation from the same biopsy . this 408-kd dystrophin was the expected size for this becker patient whose dna was deleted for exons 45-48 of the duchenne gene . this cell culture system will allow a detailed analysis of the effects of potential pharmacologic agents on steady-state dystrophin levels . 
hippocampal sclerosis can be reliably detected by magnetic resonance imaging . two independent blinded observers reported the preoperative mris in a series of 81 consecutive patients with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy who were undergoing temporal lobectomy . we then compared the nature and lateralization of the mri abnormalities with the pathologic diagnosis and the side of lobectomy . the mri criteria of hippocampal sclerosis were an increased t2-weighted signal and the signal 's confinement to a unilaterally small hippocampus . imaging was performed in coronal and axial planes , specially orientated along and perpendicular to the long axis of the hippocampal body . we found diagnostic mri abnormalities in 25 of the 27 cases with pathologically proven hippocampal sclerosis ( sensitivity 93 % , specificity 86 % ) . in addition , we detected all 13 foreign tissue lesions on mri . overall , we detected lateralized lesions on mri that correctly predicted the side of the epileptogenic temporal lobe in 72 cases ( 89 % ) , with 2 possible errors . a learning effect in appreciating the relatively subtle mri changes of hippocampal sclerosis was apparent in our later cases , as shown by an improved correlation between the 2 observers . this study demonstrates that hippocampal sclerosis can be identified on mri with a high degree of sensitivity and specificity . 
psychosocial correlates of temporomandibular joint pain and dysfunction . this study examines psychological differences between temporomandibular joint pain and dysfunction ( tmjpd ) patients , pain controls , and healthy controls . two hundred and two patients were classified , according to the diagnostic criteria of eversole and machado , as either myogenic facial pain ( n = 42 ) , internal derangement type i ( n = 69 ) , internal derangement type ii ( n = 85 ) , or internal derangement type iii ( n = 6 ) . patients completed the basic personality inventory , the illness behavior questionnaire , the multidimensional health locus of control , the perceived stress scale , and the ways of coping checklist . subjects also answered question pertaining to tmjpd symptomatology , including chronicity and severity . after conservative treatment with simple jaw exercise and ultrasound , patients were contacted again at 5 months to complete follow-up questionnaires similar to those previously completed . comparison groups were comprised of 79 patients attending outpatient physiotherapy clinics for pain-related injuries not involving the temporomandibular joint and 71 pain-free , healthy students . data were analyzed using multivariate statistics . the results indicate a significant relationship between pain intensity ( and to some extent chronicity ) and diverse measures of personality among the pain controls but not among the tmjpd patients . this calls into question the validity of assuming individual pain disorders are subsets of a larger , homogenous pain disorder population . tmjpd patients and pain controls score higher on hypochondriasis and anxiety than the pain-free controls but these elevations are not clinically significant . the elevations decrease to normal levels in response to a positive treatment outcome . there were no differences between the tmjpd patients and the pain controls on any of the measures . these results suggests that tmjpd patients do not appear to be significantly different from other pain patients or healthy controls in personality type , response to illness , attitudes towards health care , or ways of coping with stress . 
quantification of biomedical findings of chronic pain patients : development of an index of pathology . difficulties in assessing and quantifying the biomedical signs and symptoms that may be related to patients ' reports of pain are well recognized . although there appears to be some consensus among physicians as to the potential utility of examination and diagnostic tests frequently used to evaluate chronic pain patients , little attention has been paid to the reliability of interpreting the results of these procedures . moreover , the integration of biomedical findings to form a general index of pathology associated with chronic pain has been a difficult problem to solve because not all biomedical procedures used to evaluate pain patients are necessarily relevant or indicated for a specific patient . two studies are presented that were designed to evaluate the reliability of 23 biomedical procedures commonly used to evaluate chronic pain patients and to determine if findings on these procedures can effectively be combined to form a reliable index of physical pathology . the results of study 1 suggest that 17 of the 23 procedures can be applied in clinical setting with acceptable levels of reliability . study 2 provides evidence that an innovative weighted scoring approach , based on current medical consensus , can be used to produce a reliable , general index of pathology that is independent of the number of procedures used to evaluate patients . the utility of this quantification approach to biomedical findings for clinical and research purposes is discussed . 
is emotional disturbance a precipitator or a consequence of chronic pain ? the present study examined the relationship between psychological factors and pain in order to assess the contribution of emotional disturbance to the perpetuation of pain . a group of 163 chronic pain suffers in multiple settings was compared with 81 control subjects on measures of personal history antecedent to pain onset , as well as on measures of current emotional disturbance . in addition , these psychological variables were examined for their associations with subjectively rated pain intensity . overall , pain was found to be related to more current depression and less current life satisfaction , but was not associated with most of the personal history variables examined . these results suggests that emotional disturbance in pain patients is more likely to be a consequence than a cause of chronic pain . the dangers of routinely ascribing intractable pain to psychological causation are discussed in the light of these findings . 
epidural haematoma requiring surgical decompression following repeated cervical epidural steroid injections for chronic pain . we report a case of epidural haematoma following a steroid injection into the cervical epidural space . the complication occurred on the seventh such injection over a 2 year period for chronic spinal pain . surgical decompression over the seventh cervical and the upper 3 thoracic vertebrae was required to alleviate the symptoms of paralysis and anaesthesia . the patient subsequently required skin grafting to the surgical site and two trans-urethral resections of the prostate gland during his 6 week hospital admission . he made a full recovery . 
transsynaptic degeneration in the superficial dorsal horn after sciatic nerve injury : effects of a chronic constriction injury , transection , and strychnine . the lumbar and cervical spinal dorsal horns of adult rats with a chronic ( 8 days ) constriction injury of the sciatic nerve on one side ( and a sham operation on the other ) were examined for signs of transsynaptic degeneration . the incidence of neurons with signs of degeneration ( pyknosis and hyperchromatosis ; ' dark neurons ' ) was significantly increased in the lumbar dorsal horn on both sides . the ipsilateral lumbar increase was significantly greater than the contralateral increase . there was no increase in the incidence of dark neurons in the cervical dorsal horns of the same rats . the distribution of lumbar dark neurons was similar bilaterally . the majority of the dark neurons were found in the sciatic nerve 's territory in laminae i-ii . a second group of rats received the same surgery but in addition received a series of 7 daily subconvulsive doses of strychnine . dark neurons were again found bilaterally ( with ipsilateral predominance ) in the sciatic nerve 's territory in lumbar laminae i-ii , but the incidence was significantly greater than that found in the group that did not receive strychnine . the same result was obtained in a third group of strychnine-treated rats when the sham operation was omitted . thus the appearance of contralateral dark neurons is not dependent on unintentional nerve damage created by the sham procedure . an additional group of rats was sacrificed 8 days after receiving a unilateral sciatic nerve transection , a contralateral sham operation , and the 7 daily strychnine injections . there was no increase in the incidence of dark neurons in any of these rats . 
filler dna is associated with spontaneous deletions in maize . we have determined the structure of five spontaneous deletions within the maize waxy ( wx ) gene . of these , four were found in spontaneous wx mutants ( wx-b , wx-b1 , wx-b6 , wx-c4 ) and include exon sequences ; the fifth is restricted to an intron and represents a restriction fragment length polymorphism of a nonmutant allele ( wx-w23 ) . the deletions , which range in size from 60 to 980 base pairs ( bp ) , cluster in a g+c - rich region of approximately 1000 bp that is capable of forming stable secondary structures . most striking is our finding that all of the alleles have dna insertions ( filler dna ) of 1-131 bp between the deletion endpoints . for three of the five deletions , the filler dna and sequences at the deletion termini appear to be derived from sequences near one deletion endpoint . a previously reported spontaneous deletion of the maize bronze gene ( bz-r ) also contains filler dna . the association of filler dna with maize deletion endpoints contrasts dramatically with the rarity of similar events in animal germ-line and bacterial mutations . 
allelic loss of chromosomes 16q and 10q in human prostate cancer . recent advances in understanding the molecular genetics of common adult tumors have indicated that multiple genetic alterations including the activation of oncogenes and the inactivation of tumor suppressor genes are important in the pathogenesis of these tumors . loss of heterozygosity is a hallmark of tumor suppressor gene inactivation and has been used to identify chromosomal regions that contain these genes . we have examined allelic loss in the most common tumor in men , prostate cancer . twenty-eight prostate cancer specimens have been examined for loss of heterozygosity at 11 different chromosomal arms including 3p , 7q , 9q , 10p , 10q , 11p , 13q , 16p , 16q , 17p , and 18q . fifty-four percent ( 13/24 ) of clinically localized tumors and 4 of 4 metastatic tumors showed loss of heterozygosity on at least one chromosome . chromosomes 16q and 10q exhibited the highest frequency of loss of heterozygosity with 30 % of tumors showing loss at these chromosomes . these data demonstrate that allelic loss is a common event in prostate cancer and suggest that chromosomes 16q and 10q may contain the sites of tumor suppressor genes important in the pathogenesis of human prostate cancer . 
site and strand specificity of uvb mutagenesis in the sup4-o gene of yeast [ published erratum appears in proc natl acad sci u s a 1991 mar 1 ; 88 ( 5 ) :2035 ] dna sequencing was used to characterize 208 mutations induced in the sup4-o trna gene of the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae by uvb ( 285-320 nm ) radiation . the results were compared to those for an analysis of 211 sup4-o mutations induced by 254-nm uvc light . in each case , greater than 90 % of the mutations were single base-pair changes but g.c ---- a.t transitions predominated and accounted for more of the mutations induced by uvb than uvc . double substitutions , single base-pair deletions , and more complex events were also recovered . however , uvb induced 3-fold more tandem substitutions than uvc and nontandem double events were detected only after irradiation with uvc . virtually all induced substitutions occurred at sites where the pyrimidine of the base pair was part of a dipyrimidine sequence . although the site specificities were consistent with roles for cyclobutane dimers and pyrimidine-pyrimidone ( 6-4 ) lesions in mutation induction , preliminary photoreactivation data implicated cyclobutane dimers as the major form of premutational dna damage for both agents . intriguingly , there was a preference for both uvb - and uvc-induced mutations to occur at sites where the dipyrimidine was on the transcribed strand . 
overexpression of normal and mutated forms of hras induces orthotopic bladder invasion in a human transitional cell carcinoma . recent studies have shown that orthotopic ( transurethral ) transplantation of human bladder cancer cell lines into nude mice permits tumor growth that accurately reflects their clinical malignant status in the original host . thus , such a system allows a unique opportunity to analyze the genetic events involved in the conversion of low-grade bladder cancer , the vast majority of which are curable , to the high-grade life-threatening form of the disease . since 5-10 % of transitional cell carcinomas ( tccs ) have been shown to contain a mutated hras gene , and protein expression levels of all forms of hras have been correlated with tcc progression , we chose to study the contribution of the hras oncogene in bladder tumor progression . we evaluated the effects of transfection of normal or mutated hras genes into a human tcc , called rt-4 , that behaves as a superficial noninvasive papillary tumor after transurethral orthotopic inoculation into athymic nude mice . we found that overexpression of either transfected normal or mutated hras genes converted rt-4 cells to express an invasive phenotype remarkably similar in nature to the clinical behavior of high-grade bladder carcinomas . these results suggest a role for overexpressed normal or mutated ras genes in human bladder carcinoma progression , and highlight the importance of using orthotopic inoculation systems for evaluation of the contribution of oncogenes to malignant tumor progression . 
surgery for acute and chronic cholecystitis . cholecystostomy and cholecystectomy remain appropriate and effective therapy for acute and chronic cholecystitis . cholecystectomy is the gold standard against which all alternative methods of treatment of inflammatory biliary stone disease should be judged . the pathogenesis , diagnosis , and surgical treatment of acute and chronic cholecystitis have been described . techniques of cholecystostomy , cholecystectomy , and intraoperative cholangiography used by the author have been given . our results and those generally described in the literature indicate that the overall mortality rate for cholecystectomy , in all age groups , is approximately 0.5 % . this rate increases slightly in patients with acute cholecystitis and in those over the age of 65 years . cholecystectomy remains the most effective and the definitive treatment for acute and chronic cholecystitis . 
gallstone pancreatitis . gallstone pancreatitis is caused by transient obstruction of the ampulla of vater by a migrating gallstone . intraglandular activation of pancreatic enzymes occurs ( by an unclear mechanism ) , and their entry into the circulation causes most of the local and systemic events of pancreatitis . the diagnosis is based on history and physical examination , an elevation of serum amylase above 1000 iu/l , and ultrasound and ct scans . endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography can be used in less certain cases to confirm the presence of common bile duct stones . because of the absence of an agent that can abort progression of the disease , therapy should consist of adequate resuscitation , nutritional support , and careful monitoring to detect early complications . in patients with mild pancreatitis , surgery usually can be performed within 48 or 72 hours of admission or as soon as symptoms and amylase levels return to normal . for patients with severe disease , endoscopic sphincterotomy is emerging as the therapeutic modality of choice . elective treatment of the associated biliary disease should be performed during the same hospitalization after the acute phase of the disease has subsided . 
acute cholangitis . cholangitis is an infection of the biliary ductal system that results from the combination of bactibilia and biliary obstruction . choledocholithiasis has been the leading cause of cholangitis . however , in recent years , especially at tertiary referral centers , nonoperative biliary manipulations , often in patients with unresectable malignancies , have become the most common cause of cholangitis . as a result , the complete triad of fever and chills , jaundice , and abdominal pain , as originally described by charcot , is now seen less frequently . most patients still have leukocytosis and abnormal liver function tests , but many patients with indwelling tubes may develop cholangitis without significant jaundice . e. coli , klebsiella species , and the enterococci remain the most frequently isolated organisms , and anaerobes including bacteroides fragilis are recovered in 15 % to 30 % of patients . however , enterobacter and pseudomonas species , as well as yeasts , are now being isolated more frequently from patients with indwelling tubes , who often have been treated previously with antibiotics . computed cholangiography usually is necessary to determine the cause and site of biliary obstruction . in the majority of patients with cholangitis , cholangiography can be delayed until the patient has been afebrile for a minimum of 24 to 48 hours . initial therapy includes bowel rest , intravenous fluids , and antibiotics . many antibiotic regimens are now available to cover the gram-negative aerobes , the enterococcus , and the anaerobes that are likely to be causing the biliary infection . the combination of a penicillin and an aminoglycoside has been the gold standard . however , recent studies suggest that the newer broad-spectrum penicillins provide adequate therapy for these patients . only a small percentage ( 5 % -10 % ) of patients with toxic cholangitis require emergency biliary decompression . the choice of percutaneous or endoscopic drainage should be made on the basis of the presumed site and cause of obstruction as well as local expertise . the nature of the biliary obstruction may be the most important determinant of outcome . at present , patients with end-stage malignant obstruction account for most of the deaths , whereas approximately 95 % of patients survive an episode of cholangitis . 
stenosis of the sphincter of oddi . " stenosing papillitis " is a descriptive term for an anatomic deformity of the papilla of vater that is characterized by narrowing of the lower end of the bile duct and the proximal end of the duct of wirsung . the defect is secondary to inflammation and fibrosis from the chronic passage of gallstones , episodes of acute pancreatitis , chronic pancreatitis , sclerosing cholangitis , peptic ulcer disease , and cholesterolosis . patients with papillary stenosis from gallstones may present with episodes of severe upper-abdominal pain several years after cholecystectomy . the pain is often incapacitating , and patients are often addicted to narcotic analgesics . the work-up includes abdominal ultrasonography and ct scanning and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography even though the findings usually are normal . liver and pancreatic enzymes are not frequently elevated with the painful episodes . transendoscopic manometry may reveal elevated pressures within the papillary portion of the distal bile duct . some patients are relieved of their pain by transduodenal sphincteroplasty and transampullary septectomy , thereby ablating the sphincter of oddi around the bile and pancreatic ducts and enlarging their openings . 
postoperative bile duct strictures . bile duct strictures are an uncommon but serious complication of primary operations on the gallbladder or biliary tree . most strictures occur as a result of injury to the bile duct during cholecystectomy . in addition , strictures can occur at the site of previous biliary anastomoses for reconstruction of the biliary tree . most patients with benign bile duct strictures present soon after their initial operation ; however , in some cases , presentation is delayed for years . cholangiography is essential for defining the anatomy of the biliary tree prior to management . in many cases , nonoperative biliary drainage is useful to treat sepsis and biliary fistulas . a number of alternatives exist for elective repair of bile duct strictures . experience would suggest , however , that a choledochojejunostomy or hepaticojejunostomy performed through a roux-en-y limb of jejunum is the preferable management in most cases . postoperative biliary stenting may be valuable in optimizing the results . nonoperative management by percutaneous transhepatic or endoscopic balloon dilatation has been reported to be successful in a number of small series . long-term results are limited , however . comparative data suggest that surgical repair for benign postoperative strictures is associated with fewer long-term problems and with similar overall morbidity and costs . 
function in athymic nude mice of parathyroid heterografts from patients with primary hyperparathyroidism and secondary hyperparathyroidism . heterotransplantation of adenomatous parathyroid glandular tissue from humans with primary hyperparathyroidism into athymic nude mice creates a unique animal model of this disease . the mice manifest high concentrations of both midregion/c-terminal human parathyroid hormone and biologically active intact human parathyroid hormone relative to either mice with no implants or mice that received normal human parathyroid tissue . secretion of these substances is maintained in most mice for at least 9 to 13 months after implantation . in addition , animals that have experienced implantation exhibit other characteristics associated with human primary hyperparathyroidism including relative hypercalcemia and increased renal 25-hydroxyvitamin d-1 alpha-hydroxylase activity . we also measured these parameters in a group of nude mice that received transplantation of a similar mass of hyperplastic parathyroid tissue that was obtained from patients with uremic secondary hyperparathyroidism . although we hypothesized that the level of human parathyroid hormone secretion from these implants would fall over time in response to the normal host environment , hormone levels remained as high as those in recipients of adenomatous heterografts , even after 9 to 13 months . moreover , similar biologic effect of the excess parathyroid hormone ( i.e. , relative hypercalcemia , hyperphosphatasemia , and increased 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d biosynthesis ) were detected . these animal models should prove extremely useful in supplementing our understanding of hyperparathyroid disorder in man . 
evaluation of metastatic cardiac calcification in a model of chronic primary hyperparathyroidism . recent reports have fueled an interest in the prevalence and significance of metastatic calcium deposition in patients with chronic hyperparathyroidism . experimental data are limited by the lack of suitable in vivo animal models . we have developed a model of marked hypercalcemia and overproduction of parathyroid hormone using somatic gene transfer . briefly , the process involves infection of cultured rodent fibroblasts ( rat-1 cells ) with a retroviral expression vector that contains the gene encoding human parathyroid hormone . fibroblasts are grown to confluence on collagen-coated dextran microcarrier beads and are injected into the peritoneal cavities of syngeneic fisher rats . human parathyroid hormone production in rat serum is quantified by an immunoradiometric assay for human parathyroid hormone ( 1-84 ) , which does not recognize rat parathyroid hormone . these rats consistently show production of human hormone within a week . levels increase progressively , often to 1 ng/ml within 60 days of injection . serum calcium showed a concomitant rise to an average of 15.5 mg/dl . in this study , 13 rats that had been transplanted with parathyroid hormone-producing fibroblasts were killed 80 days after injection . examination of the skeleton revealed demineralization and histopathologic sequelae of parathyroid hormone excess with extensive osteoclastic bone resorption . examination of the hearts revealed calcification in five of 13 hearts . there was no involvement of major coronary arteries or conducting systems , but there was calcification of cardiac myocytes , primarily in subepicardial region . this model may permit an understanding of the mechanisms for sudden cardiac death in severe hypercalcemia . 
the role of adrenalectomy in cushing 's syndrome . forty-four patients with cushing 's syndrome were treated by adrenalectomy between 1975 and 1989 . twenty patients had adrenal adenomas : 13 with obvious cushing 's syndrome and 7 whose disease was subclinical , detected after evaluation of an incidentally discovered adrenal mass ( es ) . twelve patients underwent bilateral adrenalectomies for cushing 's disease after failed transsphenoidal explorations and pituitary irradiation . six patients had primary adrenal hyperplasia , five as manifestations of carney 's complex . two others underwent bilateral adrenalectomies for ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone from carcinoid tumors . four patients had adrenocortical carcinoma treated with transabdominal adrenalectomy . three are alive from 8 years to 5 months . there was one postoperative death ( 2.3 % ) caused by coagulopathy and multiple organ failure and three ( 7 % ) minor postoperative complications . follow-up showed good to excellent results in 95 % of patients . it is concluded that adrenalectomy provides prompt relief from the severe morbidity of cushing 's syndrome regardless of the cause . it is the treatment of choice for adrenal adenomas , carcinomas , primary hyperplasia , and selected patients with cushing 's disease . 
cytoreductive hepatic surgery for neuroendocrine tumors . we retrospectively reviewed 37 patients who underwent hepatic resection between 1970 and 1989 to evaluate the role of cytoreductive hepatic surgery in patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors ( carcinoid , 24 ; islet cell , 13 ) . seventeen resections were curative ( no gross residual tumor ) ; nine patients had symptomatic endocrinopathies and seven patients had symptoms caused by the primary tumor . eight of nine patients with symptomatic endorcrinopathies obtained complete relief of symptoms ; five are alive with no evidence of disease at 2 to 82 months ( mean , 26 months ) . six of seven patients with symptoms caused by the primary tumor obtained complete relief ; five are alive with no evidence of disease at 5 to 28 months ( mean , 14 months ) . one symptom-free patient underwent curative hepatic resection 5 years after abdominoperineal resection for a rectal carcinoid . twenty resections were palliative ( gross residual tumor ) ; 16 patients had symptomatic endocrinopathies and 4 patients had symptoms caused by the primary tumor . eight of 16 patients with symptomatic endocrinopathies obtained complete relief ; five are alive at 2 to 30 months ( mean , 11 months ) , with a mean duration of complete relief of 6 months ( 3 to 12 months ) . all four patients who underwent resection for symptoms caused by the primary tumor obtained complete relief ; two are alive and symptom free at 10 and 101 months . our experience suggests that curative surgery should be considered in all patients with completely resectable metastatic disease and that palliative surgery , despite the short duration of complete relief , should be considered in selected patients because it delays and may reduce the subsequent need for medical therapy . 
pharyngeal shape and dimensions in healthy subjects , snorers , and patients with obstructive sleep apnoea . to characterise the relation between pharyngeal anatomy and sleep related disordered breathing , 17 men with complaints of snoring were studied by all night polysomnography . ten of them had obstructive sleep apnoea ( mean ( sd ) apnoea-hypopnoea index 56.3 ( 41.7 ) , age 52 ( 10 ) years , body mass index 31.4 ( 5.3 ) kg/m2 ) ; whereas seven were simple snorers ( apnoea-hypopnoea index 6.7 ( 4.6 ) , age 40 ( 17 ) years , body mass index 25.9 ( 4.3 ) kg/m2 ) . the pharynx was studied by magnetic resonance imaging in all patients and in a group of eight healthy subjects ( age 27 ( 6 ) years , body mass index 21.8 ( 2.2 ) kg/m2 , both significantly lower than in the patients ; p less than 0.05 ) . on the midsagittal section and six transverse sections equally spaced between the nasopharynx and the hypopharynx several anatomical measurements were performed . results showed that there was no difference between groups in most magnetic resonance imaging measurements , but that on transverse sections the pharyngeal cross section had an elliptic shape with the long axis oriented in the coronal plane in normal subjects , whereas in apnoeic and snoring patients the pharynx was circular or had an elliptic shape but with the long axis oriented in the sagittal plane . it is suggested that the change in pharyngeal cross sectional shape , secondary to a reduction in pharyngeal transverse diameter , may be related to the risk of developing sleep related disordered breathing . 
role of small calibre chest tube drainage for iatrogenic pneumothorax . a 2 mm teflon catheter was used as a chest tube in 28 patients with iatrogenic pneumothorax . frequent aspirations through the catheter were performed in 16 of the patients . in the remaining 12 patients the catheter was connected to a one way flutter valve . the treatment was successful in 27 of the 28 patients -- one patient required a large calibre chest tube . the mean drainage time was 48 hours . the small catheter technique is superior to the use of a large intercostal drain as it is much less traumatic and troublesome . the small calibre chest tube with a one way valve is recommended as a safe and easy technique . 
giant lymph node hyperplasia of the lung ( castleman 's disease ) associated with recurrent pleural effusion . a case of giant lymph node hyperplasia ( castleman 's disease ) of the lung presented with pleural effusion ( which was recurrent ) , an unusual complication . the patient was treated with pneumonectomy and has survived for three years without relapse . this is the first report of the disease from black africa . 
clinical experience implanting an inflatable penile prosthesis with controlled-expansion cylinder . ninety-four patients with erectile dysfunction underwent implantation of controlled-expansion inflatable penile prosthetic cylinders . most of these patients had aneurysmal dilatation of the corpora cavernosa after prior implantation of inflatable devices . follow-up of forty-six months has shown their efficacy to be excellent for management of primary impotence , penile straightening procedures , and revision after cylinder leaks . none of the patients has had recurrence of the primary condition that required revision . 
experience with duraphase penile prosthesis : its use as replacement device . the duraphase penile prosthesis is a new , articulating type of semirigid prosthesis which appears to have several advantages over other semirigid penile prostheses . this series describes the experience with this prosthesis in 12 patients and highlights the experience in 4 patients who underwent removal of other types of prostheses due to mechanical or functional problems and replacement with the duraphase prosthesis . the device has been mechanically reliable during short follow-up , and there has been excellent patient satisfaction . 
retrograde transurethral balloon dilation of prostate : innovative management of abacterial chronic prostatitis and prostatodynia . retrograde transurethral balloon dilatation ( rtbd ) of the prostate recently has been suggested as alternative therapy for patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia ( bph ) . seven patients with documented functional urinary outlet obstruction at the level of the bladder neck or prostatic urethra underwent rtbd of prostate . each patient had a classic diagnosis of abacterial chronic prostatitis or prostatodynia based on history , physical examination , and localization cultures . prior to rtbd of prostate , patients underwent cystoscopy , voiding cystourethrogram , urodynamic and uroflow studies . rtbd of prostate was done as an outpatient procedure requiring intravenous sedation or general anesthesia . dilation was performed with a 25-mm urethroplasty balloon catheter inflated at 3.5 atm of pressure for twenty minutes . improvement in voiding symptomatology was noted in all patients and graded numerically ( 0-10 scale ) , with ten indicating normal voiding . follow-up to date ranges from one to five months . this technique may have promise as a treatment option in patients with abacterial chronic prostatitis and prostatodynia . 
acute urinary retention in a child with appendiceal abscess : diagnostic dilemma . rarely do children with appendiceal abscess present with acute urinary retention as the only sign or symptom . this presentation may delay diagnosis and definitive therapy , thereby causing additional morbidity and possible mortality . we report the eighth case of acute urinary retention in a child associated with an appendiceal abscess . 
persistent mullerian duct syndrome . persistent mullerian syndrome is rare . a case of phenotypically normal male with persistent mullerian structures that consisted of a bicornuate uterus , fallopian tubes , and upper third of the vagina is reported . these unusual structures were found in association with bilateral cryptorchidism and a right inguinal hernia , and were diagnosed while repairing the hernia in the neonatal period . the uterus and fallopian tubes were removed via laparotomy when the child was eighteen months old ; at the same time a bilateral orchiopexy was performed . to avoid damage to the vas deferens , which lay in closely to the mullerian structures and could not be separated from the vaginal wall , a small segment of the upper third of the vagina was retained . the testicles , although normal on pathologic examination , have shown poor response to hormonal stimulation with human chorionic gonadotropin . long-term follow-up for these patients is necessary because they have an increased risk of testicular tumors developing . 
perirenal candidial abscess . perirenal candidial abscesses are rare , with few well-documented cases in the literature . we describe a case of a perinephric abscess treated with amphotericin b and nephrectomy . 
indications for use of ketoconazole in management of metastatic prostate cancer . newer methods of androgen ablation for the treatment of metastatic prostatic carcinoma have been developed as alternatives to the standard forms of therapy , oral estrogens and surgical castration . the purpose of this review is to elucidate the indications and to determine the role of ketoconazole in the management of metastatic prostatic cancer . eighteen patients have been treated with ketoconazole . the indications for usage have included : prompt therapeutic response , when orchiectomy is contraindicated , when estrogens are contraindicated , initial empirical therapy , and hormonally refractory disease . it can also be used in conjunction with luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone analogues . ketoconazole is excellent for short-term usage prior to bilateral orchiectomy and when prompt therapeutic response is needed but orchiectomy can not be performed . however , it is not particularly useful for long-term hormonal therapy . 
asymptomatic rhabdomyolysis of unknown etiology . a 7-year-old boy developed rhabdomyolysis with a peak creatine phosphokinase level of 261,400 iu/l after his appendectomy . these abnormalities occurred following a 2-3-day illness consisting of upper respiratory tract symptoms , fever , and abdominal pain mimicking acute appendicitis . at the time of operation , a normal appendix was removed , and mesenteric lymphadenitis was noted . the myoglobinuria and elevation of creatine phosphokinase were transient , and the patient remained asymptomatic . we review various causes of right lower quadrant pain and rhabdomyolysis and address the roles of malignant hyperthermia and infectious agents . the possible cause of the phenomena observed in this patient is discussed . 
clinical characteristics and coronary angiographic findings of patients with unstable angina , acute myocardial infarction , and survivors of sudden ischemic death occurring during and after sport . the clinical characteristics and coronary angiographic findings of 42 well-conditioned subjects with an acute ischemic event related to sport are reported . five patients had unstable angina , 25 had acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) , and 12 were resuscitated victims of sudden ischemic death . twenty-two events occurred during sport ( group a ) and 20 after sport ( group b ) . there were two women and 40 men . the mean age was 46 years ( range 25 to 65 ) . twelve out of 30 patients who smoked cigarettes had an adjunctive risk factor for coronary artery disease . twelve others ( 28 % ) had no identifiable risk factor . prodromal cardiac symptoms were detected in three patients ( group a ) . two patients had previous myocardial infarction ( group b ) . coronary angiography was performed acutely in 39 patients . the distribution of the ischemia-related coronary artery was comparable in both groups . the lesion morphology of 35 culprit coronary arteries was described as concentric in six patients and eccentric with regular borders ( type i lesion ) in 11 and irregular borders ( type ii lesion ) in 18 . eccentric lesions consistent with ruptured plaques prevailed in both groups . associated coronary artery disease was present in 10 patients . there was no relationship between the number of risk factors and the extent of diseased coronary arteries . clinical characteristics and coronary angiographic findings of patients with unstable angina , ami , and sudden death either during or after sport are similar and indicate a common pathogenesis . the probable mechanism of a coronary event related to sport is exercise-induced plaque rupture . in most instances such an event is unexpected and unpredictable . identification of some subjects at risk is possible . 
effects of exercise on myocardial catecholamine content and ischemic injury in dogs with gradual coronary occlusion . the effects of exercise on catecholamine content and the extent of myocardial damage in dogs with ameroid constrictor occlusion of the left circumflex coronary artery were determined . tissue samples from both the anterior and posterior walls of the left ventricle were obtained for determination of catecholamine content , and the rest of the ventricles were processed for histologic examination . when subjected to treadmill exercise for 40 days after surgery , obstructed animals performed significantly less exercise than sham-operated animals and showed significantly higher percentages of ischemia and necrosis in the left ventricle than sedentary , obstructed , sham-operated , or control dogs . levels of norepinephrine and epinephrine in the posterior wall of the left ventricle were significantly lower than in the other groups . our data show that exercise in this well-known model of chronic coronary artery stenosis produced deleterious effects on the myocardium and suggest a marked heterogeneity of catecholamine stores in the myocardium that may have important functional and electrophysiologic consequences . 
follow-up results of balloon angioplasty of native coarctation in neonates and infants . the purpose of this study is to present intermediate-term results of balloon angioplasty of native aortic coarctation in neonates and infants less than 1 year of age . during a 60-month-period that ended in january 1990 , 19 infants ages 3 days to 12 months ( median , 2.5 months ) , underwent balloon angioplasty of native coarctation with resultant reduction in peak-to-peak systolic pressure gradient from 39 + / - 12 mm hg ( mean + / - sd ) to 11 + / - 7 mm hg ( p less than 0.001 ) and increase in coarctation segment size from 2.2 + / - 0.8 mm to 4.7 + / - 1.0 mm . none required immediate surgical intervention . thirteen of the 19 ( 68 % ) had severe associated cardiac defects . there was one death ( 5 % ) 2 days after balloon angioplasty , and it was related to associated cardiac defect . one infant was lost to follow-up . it is too soon to restudy one infant . the remaining 16 infants had clinical ( 36 + / - 18 months ) and catheterization ( 12 + / - 4 months ) follow-up data . the residual coarctation gradient ( 22 + / - 15 mm hg ) and coarcted segment size ( 4.4 + / - 1.6 mm ) remain improved ( p less than 0.01 ) when compared with pre-balloon angioplasty values . five of the 16 ( 31 % ) infants ( four were neonates at the time of balloon angioplasty ) had evidence for recoarctation ( defined as gradient greater than 20 mm hg ) and underwent surgical resection ( two ) or repeat balloon angioplasty ( three ) , all with success . none developed aneurysms . 
immediate and follow-up results of balloon angioplasty of postoperative recoarctation in infants and children . the purpose of this article is to present immediate and follow-up results of balloon angioplasty of aortic recoarctations following previous surgery in infants and children . during a 45-month period that ended in june 1989 , nine infants and children , ages 6 months to 7 years , underwent balloon angioplasty of recoarctation with resultant reduction in peak-to-peak systolic pressure gradient from 52 + / - 20 mm hg ( mean + / - sd ) to 16 + / - 8 mm hg ( p less than 0.001 ) and increase in coarctation segment size from 3.4 + / - 1.4 mm to 6.1 + / - 1.6 mm ( p less than 0.01 ) . none required surgical intervention . there were no significant complications . follow-up catheterization ( 16 + / - 7 months ) data in six children and follow-up clinical ( 17 + / - 6 months ) data in all children were available for review . both the residual coarctation pressure gradient ( 6 + / - 6 mm hg ) and coarctation segment size ( 8.2 + / - 2.4 mm ) remain improved ( p less than 0.001 ) when compared with pre-balloon angioplasty values and the pressure gradient fell further ( p less than 0.01 ) when compared with that measured immediately after balloon angioplasty . none developed restenosis , although one child required surgical relief of severe narrowing of isthmus of the aortic arch . none developed aneurysms . on the basis of this experience and that reported in the literature and because of high morbidity and mortality rates associated with repeat surgery for postoperative recoarctation , we recommend balloon angioplasty as the procedure of choice for relief of postoperative recoarctation with significant hypertension . 
the long-term prognosis of patients with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest but no inducible ventricular tachycardia . the long-term prognosis of patients successfully resuscitated from cardiac arrest who do not have acute precipitating factors and in whom ventricular arrhythmias can not be induced during baseline electrophysiologic testing is controversial . the purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the long-term risk of recurrent sudden death and determine the clinical , angiographic , hemodynamic , and electrophysiologic predictors of recurrent cardiac arrest in such patients . twenty-six ( 37 % ) of 71 consecutive patients with a single episode of aborted sudden death did not have inducible ventricular arrhythmias ( less than 7 intraventricular responses ) during baseline drug-free electrophysiologic study and they form the basis of this report . their mean age was 54 + / - 13 ( mean + / - sd ) years and the left ventricular ejection fraction ( lvef ) was 0.47 + / - 0.17 . after a mean follow-up period of 16 months , 11 patients ( 42 % ) had a recurrent cardiac arrest ( fatal in 10 patients ) . the actuarial incidence of recurrent cardiac arrest was 30 + / - 10 % at 1 year and 55 + / - 13 % at 3 years . patients with lvef less than or equal to 0.40 had a significantly higher occurrence of recurrent cardiac arrest than those with lvef greater than 0.40 ( p = 0.02 ; 1-year actuarial incidence of 57 + / - 17 % versus 13 + / - 19 % ) . patients with recurrent sudden death had a significantly greater incidence of dilated cardiomyopathy ( 55 % versus 7 % ; p = 0.02 ) and baseline frequent premature ventricular contractions ( pvcs greater than 10/hr ; 64 % versus 17 % , p = 0.036 ) or nonsustained ventricular tachycardia ( 36 % versus 0 % ; p = 0.37 ) than patients without these characteristics . 
rapid control of refractory atrial tachyarrhythmias with high-dose oral amiodarone . to shorten the delay in the onset of antiarrhythmic effect when using amiodarone for the conversion of refractory atrial tachyarrhythmias to sinus rhythm , 19 patients were given oral amiodarone according to a high-dose loading protocol . in 18 of 19 patients ( 95 % ) , sinus rhythm was restored 36 hours ( range , 0 to 96 hours ) after starting amiodarone . the conversion occurred as a result of amiodarone therapy alone within 48 hours in 12 patients ( 63 % ) , and by amiodarone therapy plus electrical cardioversion at 48 to 96 hours in six patients ( 32 % ) . minor side effects were noted in eight patients ( 42 % ) . no major side effects were encountered . the length of hospital stay after initiating amiodarone therapy was 3.6 days ( range , 2 to 5 days ) . high-dose oral amiodarone loading is a safe and effective method for the rapid conversion of atrial tachyarrhythmias to sinus rhythm . 
effect of delayed captopril therapy on left ventricular mass and myonecrosis during acute coxsackievirus murine myocarditis . the effect of captopril on coxsackievirus b3 murine myocarditis was investigated . thirty-two , 3-week-old mice were infected with coxsackievirus b3 on day 0 of the study , then randomized into a placebo group or a captopril group starting on day 3 of infection . on day 9 of infection , the mice were put to death . hearts were weighed and processed for light microscopic examination . heart weight was 125 + / - 19 mg in the control group versus 102 + / - 14 mg in the captopril group ( p less than 0.0003 ) . amount of necrosis as a percentage of left ventricular section was 3.5 % ( 2.0 % to 7.5 % ) in the placebo group versus 2.0 % ( 0.0 % to 5.0 % ) in the captopril group ( p less than 0.01 ) . the amount of dystrophic calcification was 5.0 % ( 0.0 % to 27.5 % ) in the placebo group versus 1.3 % ( 0.0 % to 20.0 % ) in the captopril group ( p less than 0.01 ) . the extent of the histopathologic involvement by planimetry was 10.2 % in the placebo group versus 5.4 % in the captopril group ( p = 0.052 ) . we conclude that captopril is beneficial in decreasing left ventricular mass and the amount of myocardial necrosis and calcification in the short term in the murine myocarditis model . 
peripheral arterial occlusive disease of the extremities in the united states : hospitalization and mortality . paode is an important cause of morbidity and health care expenditures among the elderly . data from the nhds and national vital statistics system were used to assess its impact in the u.s. in 1985 to 1987 , an estimated 229 thousand men and 184 thousand women per year were discharged with any diagnosis of chronic paode . discharge rates were much higher in men and increased sharply with age . lower extremity arteriography was performed during 88 thousand hospitalizations and aorta-iliac-femoral bypass procedures were done during 31 thousand hospitalizations per year . numbers of procedures increased markedly since 1979 . an estimated 60 thousand men and 50 thousand women per year were discharged with any diagnosis of acute paode . embolectomy or thrombectomy of lower limb arteries was listed for 28 thousand discharges per year . few deaths were attributed to paode . although these data are limited by likely incomplete reporting and by the nonspecificity of diagnostic codes , they provide an indication of the magnitude of the problem . an aging population and advances in surgical techniques suggest continued monitoring using multiple data sources . vigorous primary prevention programs are needed to lessen the impact of all atherosclerotic diseases . 
fascinating rhythm : a primer on chaos theory and its application to cardiology . nonlinear dynamics is an exciting new way of looking at peculiarities that in the past have been ignored or explained away . we have attempted to give a general introduction to the basics of the mathematics , applications to cardiology , and a brief review of the new tools needed to use the concepts of nonlinear mathematics . the careful mathematical approach to problems in cardiac electrical dynamics and blood flow is opening a window on behaviors and mechanisms previously inaccessible . 
epiretinal membrane contracture associated with macular prolapse . we treated two patients with annular epiretinal membranes that produced unusual macular morphologic characteristics . contracture of the membranes caused herniation of macular tissue through a hole in the center of the membrane . the membranes were removed surgically , and ultrastructural analysis disclosed cells with properties resembling myofibroblasts and apparent new vitreous collagen . contracture of the cellular components probably produced tangential traction on the retina , which caused prolapse of the retinal tissue through a central defect in the membrane . 
laser placement in noncontact nd : yag cyclophotocoagulation . we treated 40 eyes of 40 patients by using noncontact transscleral nd : yag cyclophotocoagulation to determine whether treatment 1.5 or 3.0 mm posterior to the corneoscleral lumbus was preferable . patients were randomly assigned to one of the treatment groups , and all other variables , including power , number , and distribution of laser applications , were kept constant . six months postoperatively , those treated 1.5 mm posterior to the corneoscleral limbus had a lower intraocular pressure ( p = .0047 ) than those treated 3.0 mm from the corneoscleral limbus . the 1.5-mm group also required fewer retreatment ( p = .017 ) and had a slightly lower occurrence of visual acuity loss after this procedure . we believe it may be advantageous to locate the laser application approximately 1.5 mm posterior to the corneoscleral limbus , rather than further posteriorly , when performing noncontact transscleral nd : yag cyclophotocoagulation . 
addition of clonidine enhances postoperative analgesia from epidural morphine : a double-blind study . this study was undertaken to evaluate the analgesic effect of the combination of epidural morphine and clonidine versus epidural morphine alone in patients with postoperative pain . a randomized double-blind design was used , and 91 patients scheduled for post-operative pain relief by epidural morphine were studied . patients received either a continuous epidural infusion of morphine and clonidine ( group 1 ; n = 45 ) or morphine alone ( group 2 ; n = 46 ) over the 72 h after major abdominal surgery . in the first 24 h , the dose of morphine was 6 mg per 24 h ; during the second 24 h , it was decreased to 4 mg per 24 h ; and in the final 24 h , it was decreased to 2 mg per 24 h in both groups . group 1 patients received clonidine ( 450 micrograms ) during each 24-h period . additional epidural bolus injections of 2 mg morphine and intravenous meperidine were given on demand . the pain score , blood pressure , heart rate , respiratory rate , and relative forced vital capacity were measured at fixed times during the first 72 h after operation . total consumption of analgesics and side effects were recorded . although the total consumption of analgesics was significantly higher in group 2 ( p less than 0.05 ) , pain scores were lower in group 1 than group 2 during the entire observation period ( p less than 0.05 ) . epidural clonidine produced a significant decrease ( p less than 0.05 ) in heart rate and blood pressure , whereas the respiratory rate was not affected . due to the better pain relief in group 1 , the forced vital capacity was increased ( p less than 0.05 ) . 
influence of high-dose aprotinin treatment on blood loss and coagulation patterns in patients undergoing myocardial revascularization . intraoperative administration of the proteinase inhibitor aprotinin causes reduction in blood loss and homologous blood requirement in patients undergoing cardiac surgery . to ascertain the blood-saving effect of aprotinin and to obtain further information about the mode of action , 40 patients undergoing primary myocardial revascularization were randomly assigned to receive either aprotinin or placebo treatment . aprotinin was given as a bolus of 2 x 10 ( 6 ) kallikrein inactivator units ( kiu ) before surgery followed by a continuous infusion of 5 x 10 ( 5 ) kiu/h during surgery . additionally , 2 x 10 ( 6 ) kiu were added to the pump prime . strict criteria were used to obtain a homogeneous patient selection . total blood loss was reduced from 1,431 + / - 760 ml in the control group to 738 + / - 411 ml in the aprotinin group ( p less than 0.05 ) and the homologous blood requirement from 838 + / - 963 ml to 163 + / - 308 ml ( p less than 0.05 ) . in the control group , 2.3 + / - 2.2 u of homologous blood or blood products were given , and in the aprotinin group , 0.63 + / - 0.96 u were given ( p less than 0.05 ) . twenty-five percent of patients in the control group and 63 % in the aprotinin group did not receive banked blood or homologous blood products . the activated clotting time as an indicator of inhibition of the contact phase of coagulation was significantly increased before heparinization in the aprotinin group ( 141 + / - 13 s vs. 122 + / - 25 s ) and remained significantly increased until heparin was neutralized after cardiopulmonary bypass ( cpb ) . 
covalent binding of oxidative biotransformation intermediates is associated with halothane hepatotoxicity in guinea pigs . in vivo covalent binding of halothane biotransformation-reactive intermediates to hepatic protein and lipid was examined in association with the subsequent development of hepatic necrosis in the guinea pig . oxidative halothane biotransformation was inhibited by the use of deuterated halothane , whereas reductive metabolism was enhanced by low inspired oxygen concentrations . male outbred hartley guinea pigs ( n = 8 ) were exposed to either 1 % ( v/v ) halothane or deuterated halothane -- with a fractional inspired o2 concentration ( fio2 ) of 0.40 or 0.10 -- for 4 h. livers removed from half of the animals immediately after anesthesia were evaluated for organic fluorine bound to protein and lipid . the remaining animals were evaluated for a hepatotoxic response up to 96 h after exposure . only guinea pigs that received 1 % halothane at an fio2 of 0.40 had centrilobular necrosis develop with significantly increased plasma alanine aminotransferase activities . all other treatment conditions significantly reduced oxidative halothane biotransformation , as indicated by decreased plasma trifluoroacetic acid concentrations . these reductions were associated with a significant decrease in organic fluorine bound to hepatic proteins . an fio2 of 0.10 during halothane anesthesia significantly enhanced reductive biotransformation , as indicated by plasma fluoride ion concentrations . this was associated with a significant increase in organic fluoride bound to hepatic lipids . centrilobular necrosis did not develop under these conditions . thus , covalent binding to subcellular proteins by the trifluoroacetyl acid chloride intermediate generated by oxidative halothane biotransformation is implicated as a mechanism of centrilobular necrosis in guinea pigs . binding to lipids by reductive pathway generated free radicals does not appear to be involved in production of the lesion . 
alterations in brain electrical activity may indicate the onset of malignant hyperthermia in swine . the time course of changes in brain electrical activity during halothane anesthesia was examined in 12 malignant hyperthermia-susceptible ( mhs ) and 14 normal ( nmhs ) swine . power densities in selected frequency bands were calculated from the electroen-cephalogram ( eeg ) . eeg and systemic variables were determined over a period of 60 min after starting halothane ( 1 % inspired ) . malignant hyperthermia ( mh ) was triggered in all susceptible pigs . initial changes in the eeg during development of mh consisted of a decrease in total power and a shift to lower frequencies ( delta-theta activity ) in all animals . these eeg alterations were noted when there was an increase in heart rate , but other systemic variables were still normal . eeg changes in all mhs animals started at an arterial oxygen tension ( pao2 ) greater than 90 mmhg and an arterial carbon dioxide tension ( paco2 ) less than 50 mmhg . in 5 mhs animals eeg became isoelectric at a pao2 of 61-82 mmhg and a paco2 of 53-68 mmhg . mean arterial blood pressure at this time was 54-66 mmhg . to determine the effects of hypoxia on the eeg in 7 nmhs animals , oxygen was decreased over a period of 45-60 min to 7 % inspired . in 7 other nmhs animals , hypercarbia was produced by admixture of carbon dioxide to the fresh gas supply to achieve incremental increases of paco2 to 110-120 mmhg . significant eeg changes during hypoxia comparable to those seen at the onset of mh were noted at a pao2 below 40 mmhg and during hypercarbia at a paco2 greater than 68 mmhg . 
intravenous nicardipine : an effective new agent for the treatment of severe hypertension . fifty-six patients with severe hypertension were treated with intravenous nicardipine for infusion periods of eight to twenty-four hours . each patient achieved satisfactory blood pressure control during the infusion period with a mean controlling dose of 7.85 mg/hr . the dose of nicardipine needed for sustained blood pressure control correlated with untreated diastolic blood pressure but not with untreated systolic blood pressure . these results demonstrate the potential usefulness of intravenous nicardipine for the treatment of severe hypertension requiring rapid lowering , and they suggest also that the severity of pretreatment diastolic hypertension might be a useful indicator of the dose required for blood pressure control . 
pilot study of nicardipine for acute ischemic stroke . the author performed a pilot study of nicardipine ( nc ) , a ca ( + ) + channel blocker , to study its dosing , toxicity , and possible efficacy for hemispheric cerebral infarction within 12 hours ( mean 6.9 hr ) of onset to determine the advisability of proceeding with a multi-centered controlled trial . nc was administered iv ( 3 to 7 mg/hr ) x 72 hours by titrating dose to mean arterial blood pressure ( mabp not less than 10 % of baseline ) , then orally x 30 days . forty-three patients have been entered ; mean age 63 ( range 34-89 ) , 25 male and 18 female . only 3 had ct evidence of infarct on entry . results have shown improvement in a 100-point ( pt ) graded exam ( 40 pts at entry , 68 pts at 3 months ) . of 20 patients completing 3 months ' evaluation , 17 improved and none worsened . sixteen out of 20 were at home and 8 had minimal or no impairment . mean barthel 's index was 72 . mean maximal serum nc level was 75 ng/ml . mabp decreased from 103 ( entry ) to 83 ( 72 hours ) . a larger controlled study is warranted to determine the efficacy of nc for acute cerebral infarct . 
cardiovascular effects of nicardipine . nicardipine , a new 1-4 dihydropyridine calcium antagonist , has chemical properties that allow oral and stable intravenous preparations . it is the first intravenous dihydropyridine calcium antagonist available in the united states . among its drug class it has a unique chemical structure that affords properties useful in the treatment of acute cardiovascular conditions , such as myocardial ischemia , congestive heart failure , hypertension , cerebrovascular disease , and other related disorders . in patients with coronary artery disease , intravenous nicardipine has been found to reduce myocardial oxygen demand by reducing afterload and increasing myocardial oxygen supply through coronary vasodilatation . it enhances left ventricular performance and augments coronary blood flow beyond that required by increased myocardial oxygen consumption . nicardipine may also offer protection from ischemic injury to the heart and central nervous system . alone and in combination with other antihypertensive agents , nicardipine has been shown to be effective in the treatment of mild to moderate hypertension . it is safe for use in patients with certain types of conduction disturbances because it does not greatly affect sinoatrial and atrioventricular conduction . additional advantages for nicardipine 's use in the management of acute cardiovascular disorders are its rapid onset and short duration of action . 
postoperative hypertension : a prospective , placebo-controlled , randomized , double-blind trial , with intravenous nicardipine hydrochloride . nicardipine hydrochloride , a new calcium channel blocker for intravenous use , has been compared with placebo in a prospective , randomized , double-blind trial on postoperative hypertension . of 175 patients who signed preoperative consent , 24 ( 13.7 % ) met entry criteria . hypertension was significantly better controlled in nicardipine-treated patients compared with those receiving placebo ( 93 % versus 30 % , p less than 0.05 ) . all the placebo failures were subsequently successfully treated with nicardipine . there were no significant complications in either group . the authors conclude that nicardipine hc1 is an effective , safe therapy for postoperative hypertension . further studies are now indicated comparing it with other drugs currently used to treat this condition . 
sudden blindness after thermocoagulation of the trigeminal ganglion . sudden blindness during percutaneous thermocoagulation of the gasserian ganglion occurred in a 72-year-old woman with trigeminal neuralgia . considered a safe procedure , we highlight the possibility of this serious complication which was probably due to direct damage of the optic nerve . 
final height in boys with untreated constitutional delay in growth and puberty . to determine the natural history and psychological impact of the growth pattern in boys with constitutional delay in growth and puberty ( cdgp ) , 43 boys presenting with short stature due to cdgp were followed up to final height . at presentation mean ( sd ) chronological age was 14.0 ( 1.9 ) years , bone age delay 2.7 ( 1.0 ) years , standing height standard deviation score ( sds ) -3.4 ( 0.6 ) , and predicted adult height sds -1.3 ( 0.7 ) . final adult height sds was -1.6 ( 0.9 ) , measured at 21.2 ( 2.6 ) years . there was no significant difference between final height and predicted adult height , but there was a significant difference between final height and measured mid-parental height . psychological questionnaires showed no significant difference in self esteem , marital , or employment state between the cdgp group and a control group . there was no correlation between self esteem and final height , but 25 felt their growth delay had affected their success either at school , work , or socially and 20 would rather have had treatment to advance their growth spurt . this study supports the more frequent use of active medical treatment to advance growth in boys with cdgp , and shows that although boys with cdgp reach their predicted heights , this is short for their families . 
short stature , mental retardation , and hypoparathyroidism : a new syndrome . eight children ( four boys and four girls ) with extreme failure to thrive , dysmorphic features , developmental delay , hypoparathyroidism , and abnormal skeletal survey were studied . they were the products of seven consanguinous marriages , two of the patients being brothers . in the remaining six families , a further four children had affected siblings who had died in infancy . when assessed the children were aged 0.47-12 .8 years ; sd scores were less than -2 for height , weight , and head circumference in all patients . the children had identical facies with deep set eyes , depressed nasal bridge with beaked nose , long philtrum , thin upper lip , micrognathia , and large floppy earlobes . they were all developmentally retarded . the following abnormalities were found on investigation : hypocalcaemia in all ( of whom six of seven had hypoparathyroidism ) , medullary stenosis and other skeletal survey defects in seven of the eight children , and reduced numbers of t cell subsets in four of four tested . we believe that these children represent a new , as yet undescribed genetically determined syndrome . 
treatment of chronic liver disease caused by 3 beta-hydroxy-delta 5-c27-steroid dehydrogenase deficiency with chenodeoxycholic acid . deficiency of 3 beta-hydroxy-delta 5-c27-steroid dehydrogenase , the second enzyme in the sequence that catalyses the synthesis of bile acids from cholesterol , leads to chronic liver disease in childhood as well as to malabsorption of fat and fat soluble vitamins . a 4 year old boy with this condition has been successfully treated by oral administration of a bile acid -- chenodeoxycholic acid . he had been jaundiced since birth , grew poorly because of rickets , and had severe pruritus . plasma transaminase activities were persistently raised . chenodeoxycholic acid 125 mg twice daily for two months , and then 125 mg daily , cured his jaundice and pruritus , returned his transaminase activities to normal , and eliminated the need for calcitriol for prevention of rickets . on this treatment he has so far remained well for two years . a diagnosis of 3 beta-hydroxy-delta 5-c27-steroid dehydrogenase deficiency should be considered in any child with unexplained chronic hepatitis or cirrhosis , especially if the liver disease is accompanied by a clinically obvious malabsorption of fat soluble vitamins . a simple colorimetric test of the urine confirms the diagnosis and effective treatment can be started . 
kawasaki disease : echocardiographic features in 91 cases presenting in the united kingdom . ninety-one patients with kawasaki disease were examined by cross sectional echocardiography between 1980 and 1988 . in the 75 patients evaluated during the acute phase of the illness ( the first month ) , the first echocardiographic examination was carried out at a mean time of 16 days ( range 5-30 ) and coronary arterial lesions were seen in 21 ( 28 % ) . two patients with medium sized aneurysms had myocardial infarctions , and one died . coronary arterial lesions persisted in 17 ( 23 % ) patients , most often in younger children . the remaining 16 patients were examined from one month to four years after their acute illnesses , and this group did not have coronary arterial abnormalities . seven patients with coronary artery lesions have reached school age and require regular echocardiographic examination and exercise electrocardiography . selective coronary arteriography may be indicated in some patients to identify coronary artery stenosis , which the japanese experience has shown may progress for several years after the acute illness . 
eight and 12 week courses of cyclophosphamide in nephrotic syndrome seventy-three children with steroid dependent minimal change nephrotic syndrome were randomly allocated to receive treatment with cyclophosphamide ( 2 mg/kg/day ) for either eight or 12 weeks , in combination with prednisolone . all patients had previously relapsed while the dosage was being reduced or within 14 days of discontinuing prednisolone in the six months before receiving cyclophosphamide treatment ( steroid dependent ) , and had severe steroid toxicity . thirty two patients were treated with cyclophosphamide for eight weeks , and 41 for 12 weeks . there were no differences between the two groups in age at onset of nephrosis or entry into the study , sex ratio , duration of nephrosis , number of relapses before entry , and follow up period after entry . the relapse free rate of patients treated for eight weeks ( 25 % ) was similar to that of those treated for 12 weeks ( 24 % ) five years after stopping the treatment , and the mean relapse free interval and the sparing effect of cyclophosphamide ( if any ) on subsequent treatment with steroids did not differ between the groups . we conclude that cyclophosphamide should be used for no longer than eight weeks at a dose of 2 mg/kg/day in children with steroid dependent minimal change nephrotic syndrome . 
predicting treatment outcome in nocturnal enuresis . a presenting sample of 127 consecutive referrals to a community based enuresis clinic were evaluated after treatment with baseline behavioural recording and the enuresis alarm . almost one in five became dry after baseline recording only while 81 of 96 ( 84 % ) enuretics who used the alarm achieved the initial dryness criterion . successful outcome was associated with the absence of adverse environmental factors and psychiatric disorders in the child . a logistic regression procedure enabled a risk score to be created so that successful outcome could be predicted . psychiatric disorder in the child , family stress , and the degree of concern shown by the child emerged as the most important prognostic factors in the treatment of enuresis . the favourable success rates with baseline recording and the enuresis alarm confirm the role of conditioning treatment at the forefront of management of enuresis and the risk score allows outcome to be predicted for the first time . 
helicobacter pylori and associated duodenal ulcer . twenty three children with coexistent duodenal ulcer and helicobacter pylori infection were treated with either two weeks of amoxycillin ( 25 mg/kg/day ) in addition to six weeks of cimetidine , or cimetidine alone . endoscopy with antral and duodenal biopsies for urease test , microaerophilic culture , and histological studies were performed at entry , six weeks , 12 weeks , and at six months . children with persistent h pylori infection at six weeks were given a further two weeks ' course of amoxycillin . h pylori persisted in all children not receiving amoxycillin treatment but cleared in six of the 13 children ( 46 % ) treated with amoxycillin . with failure of h pylori clearance at six months , only two out of six ( 33 % ) ulcers had healed and 50 % of patients had experienced ulcer recurrence . in contrast , when h pylori remained cleared all ulcers healed and no ulcer recurred . persistent h pylori infection was associated with persistent gastritis and duodenitis despite endoscopic evidence of ulcer healing . detection and eradication of h pylori deserves particular attention in the routine management of duodenal ulceration in children . 
severe hypertension after liver transplantation in alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency . five children with alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency and terminal liver disease received liver grafts ; all five became hypertensive and four developed hypertensive encephalopathy . there was evidence of renal disease preoperatively and renal biopsy specimens showed variable glomerulonephritic histology with iga nephropathy in one , mesangial-proliferative changes in two , and mesangio-capillary glomerulonephritis type i in two . four hypertensive episodes were preceded by a fall in creatinine clearance . the association of glomerulonephritis with alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency in children is more common than has been recognised . affected patients are prone to severe hypertension of probable renal origin after liver transplantation and the renal lesion may affect long term prognosis . 
perianal appearances associated with constipation . the perianal appearances were studied prospectively of 136 constipated children ( mean age 3.9 years , 67 boys , 69 girls ) . anal dilatation , fissures , tags , warts , perianal oedema , redness , blueness , and veins were recorded . it was noted whether dilatation occurred immediately or at 30 and 60 seconds with the buttocks minimally separated , and on subsequent firm lateral traction of the buttocks . the degree of faecal loading was assessed in all children . anal dilatation was found in 24 ( 18 % ) and first appeared on lateral traction in eight ( 6 % ) . in three quarters of the children with dilatation faecal loading or perianal signs were present . fissures were found in 35 ( 26 % ) children and tags in seven ( 5 % ) . perianal redness was more likely to be associated with fissures , and blueness with dilatation . we conclude that there are no pathognomonic perianal signs in childhood constipation and that the technique of anal examination should be standardised . 
central nervous system vasculitis after chickenpox -- cause or coincidence ? a 7.5 year old boy , known to have a seizure disorder , presented with an infarct in the left middle cerebral artery territory , 10 weeks after severe chickenpox . immunofluorescent antibody titre to the varicella zoster virus in the cerebrospinal fluid was 1:32 . cerebral angiography showed evidence of focal vasculitis . he presented again seven months later with an acute exacerbation of seizures . magnetic resonance imaging of the brain showed an old posterior extension of the infarct , but a repeated angiography demonstrated an improvement in the vasculitic process . cerebrospinal fluid antibody titre was again 1:32 . although this may have been an unfortunate coincidence , a possible association between chickenpox and vasculitis , similar to that reported with herpes zoster , and with potentially significant clinical implications , should be considered . as a definite proof can be obtained only by a brain biopsy , however , which is generally not indicated in such cases , only additional clinical reports can lead to delineation of this association as a definite entity . 
recognising failure to thrive in early childhood . the maximum weight centile achieved by a child between 4 and 8 weeks of age was found to be a better predictor of the centile at 12 months than the birth weight centile . children whose weight deviated two or more major centiles below this maximum weight centile for a month or more showed significant anthropometric differences during the second year of life from those who showed no such deviation . it is suggested that this leads to a logical and practical definition of failure to thrive . 
continued need for pneumococcal prophylaxis after splenectomy two children died from pneumococcal infection five and eight years after splenectomy . pneumococcal vaccination had not been given to either child . when the infection developed both children were not taking prophylactic penicillin . vaccination and daily penicillin reduce the incidence of this complication and therefore we strongly recommend that both of these measures are continued indefinitely . 
crohn 's disease of the lung two years after developing colonic crohn 's disease , a 17 year old boy presented with focal pulmonary consolidation . a lung biopsy specimen showed areas of non-caseating epithelioid granuloma . although some respiratory abnormalities appear to be associated with inflammatory bowel disease , granulomatous disease affecting the lung has not previously been reported in a child . 
unknown primary squamous cell carcinoma metastatic to the neck . we analyzed retrospectively 157 cases of metastatic neck squamous cell carcinoma from unknown primary sites , treated with surgery , radiotherapy , excisional biopsy , and combined modalities . median follow-up was 74 months , and overall actuarial survival was 55 % at 5 years . the surgery-treated group , despite a higher rate of manifesting primary tumors , had significantly better survival at 5 years compared with those receiving radiation therapy , of whom 23 % had residual disease after treatment . primary tumors were discovered during follow-up in 16 % overall . different treatments yielded comparable results in lower-staged neck disease ( nx , n1 , n2a ) , while surgery appeared more effective in controlling advanced disease ( n2b , n3a ) . factors that affected survival include neck stage , connective tissue invasion , and presence of recurrent or residual disease after treatment . 
simultaneous ' dual system ' rehabilitation in the treatment of facial paralysis . simultaneous dual system rehabilitation of facial paralysis involves using two independent reanimation techniques to optimize facial movement in both a quantitative and qualitative manner . these techniques involve the use of nerve grafting or crossover procedures combined with a dynamic muscle transfer . a group of 37 patients who underwent five different combinations of reanimation was analyzed . the techniques were evaluated using a standard rating scheme for judging success of reanimation procedures . the combination of a masseter muscle transfer to the lower region of the face and a cable graft of the upper facial nerve division appeared to offer excellent results in terms of independent motion of the upper and lower regions of the face and good eye closure , while allowing spontaneous mimetic function in 50 % of cases . the advantages and disadvantages of the other techniques are described . the clinical situations in which these techniques have advantage over single reanimation techniques are outlined . 
nasal valve malfunction resulting from resection of cancer . following cancer resection of the nasal unit , nasal valve malfunction is manifested by the symptoms of nasal stuffiness or difficulty getting air into the nostril . these symptoms occur in cases in which the resection is in the alar crease at the junction with the lateral sidewall of the nose . wound scar contracture elevates the alar margin and causes the alar and lateral cartilages to move inward forming a visible and palpable shelf on the lateral wall of the nasal vestibule . this displacement of the alar and lateral cartilages and the rigid scar formed between these cartilages render the nasal valve immobile . since it is easier to prevent nasal valve malfunction than to repair it later , wounds that bridge the alar crease or are located in either the alae or lateral sidewall and come within 1 mm of the alar crease with a total diameter of 1.0 cm should be repaired to prevent nasal valve malfunction . in the process of repairing deep defects , the overlapping region of the lateral crus of the alar cartilage and the lateral cartilage may be stabilized by a conchal cartilage graft . this cartilage graft may be used in combination with reconstruction of the nasal skin with a forehead flap and repair of the nasal lining . in the event that the nasal lining is intact , the cartilage graft may be used with a full-thickness skin graft . 
comparison of i.m. ketorolac trometamol and morphine sulphate for pain relief after cholecystectomy . i.m. ketorolac trometamol 30 mg was compared with morphine sulphate 10 mg after cholecystectomy in a double-blind , multiple dose , randomized study of 100 patients . assessments of pain were made immediately after operation ( day 1 ) , and the next morning ( day 2 ) . pain intensity ( verbal response score and visual analogue scale ) was recorded before injection and then over a 6-h period . pain relief was assessed also . the effect of ketorolac on operative blood loss and platelet function was examined . time to commencing oral intake and the duration of administration of i.v. fluids were recorded . adverse events were noted . ketorolac produced significantly less analgesia than morphine on day 1 , but on day 2 the two drugs produced a similar effect . blood loss was not increased by ketorolac , although platelet function was impaired . repeated i.m. administration of ketorolac did not produce any serious adverse effects . 
complications of nasotracheal intubation in neonates , infants and children : a review of 4 years ' experience in a children 's hospital . a computerized database was set up to study the incidence and outcome of complications of nasotracheal intubation in a paediatric hospital . we studied 2953 intensive care admissions over a 4-yr period . the overall complication rate was 8 % . accidental extubation and tube blockage were the most frequent events , accounting for a mean of 3.5 % and 2.6 % of the complications per year , respectively . complications were more common in smaller children and there were differences between fields of intensive care . none of the complications was fatal or resulted in serious sequelae . none of the children in the study showed clinical symptoms of acquired subglottic stenosis before discharge from hospital , and none has been readmitted for this condition subsequently . 
preoperative piroxicam for postoperative analgesia in dental surgery . fifty patients were allocated randomly to receive placebo or piroxicam 40 mg , 2.5 h before surgical removal of lower third molars under general anaesthesia . a significantly greater number of patients in the piroxicam group did not require opioid analgesia after operation ( p less than 0.05 ) . the piroxicam group also required fewer doses of paracetamol in the first 24 h after recovery from anaesthesia ( p less than 0.05 ) , and the time from recovery to first postoperative analgesia was longer in those patients who had received piroxicam ( p less than 0.05 ) . piroxicam did not significantly prolong the duration of recovery from anaesthesia . 
effects of nimodipine on cerebral blood flow and neuropsychological outcome after cardiac surgery . thirty-five patients undergoing cardiac surgery requiring cardiopulmonary bypass ( cpb ) were allocated randomly in a prospective double-blind study to receive either nimodipine 0.5 micrograms kg-1 min-1 or placebo . cerebral blood flow ( cbf ) was measured during and immediately after cpb . neuropsychological tests were performed 6 months after surgery to determine any relationship between ischaemic damage and cbf and administration of nimodipine . there were no differences in cbf between the nimodipine ( n = 18 ) and placebo groups ( n = 17 ) . significant changes in neuropsychological tests were found in six patients tested 6 months after surgery but there were no conclusive signs of ischaemic damage . the nimodipine-treated group performed better in tests of verbal fluency and visual retention , suggesting that some memory functions were preserved better in this group . 
functional and metabolic effects of bupivacaine and lignocaine in the rat heart-lung preparation . we have examined the effects of bupivacaine and lignocaine on myocardial metabolism in the rat isolated heart-lung preparation . bupivacaine 1 , 5 or 25 micrograms ml-1 or lignocaine 4 , 20 or 100 micrograms ml-1 was administered 5 min after the start of perfusion . both bupivacaine 25 micrograms ml-1 and lignocaine 100 micrograms ml-1 reduced heart rate significantly . bupivacaine 25 micrograms ml-1 was associated with a higher incidence of arrhythmias than the other groups . three hearts in the bupivacaine 25 micrograms ml-1 group ( n = 8 ) and two hearts in the lignocaine 100 micrograms ml-1 group ( n = 8 ) failed ( zero cardiac output ) at the end of the experiment . although there were no significant differences in myocardial lactate and glycogen concentrations between groups , atp content in the bupivacaine 25 micrograms ml-1 and lignocaine 100 micrograms ml-1 groups was significantly less than that in the control group . the results suggest that myocardial depression and subsequent metabolic deterioration occurred with both the high doses of local anaesthetics ; these findings do not account for the apparent increased cardiotoxicity of bupivacaine . 
intraventricular diamorphine via an ommaya shunt for intractable cancer pain . we describe two patients in whom diamorphine was administered into the intraventricular space via an ommaya reservoir , producing excellent pain relief . the use of this technique for long term administration of analgesia is reviewed . 
acute pulmonary oedema following administration of ornithine-8-vasopressin . we report the case of a patient who developed acute pulmonary oedema following a short and uneventful surgical procedure . among the differential diagnoses , the role of ornithine-8-vasopressin is emphasized . 
comparison of pulse oximeters : accuracy at low arterial pressure in volunteers . a laboratory model was developed of limb hypoperfusion in volunteers , using parital occlusion of the brachial artery with consequent reduction in radial artery pulse pressure . this was used to compare the function of 13 pulse oximeters and the effect of reduced pulse pressure and mild hypoxia on these devices . with the exception of one device , all the pulse oximeters studied demonstrated similar accuracies at pulse pressures exceeding 20 mm hg . there were however , significant differences between several of the pulse oximeters in both ability to display readings and accuracy of readings displayed when brachial artery occlusion reduced radial artery pulse pressures equal to or less than 20 mm hg . 
effect of motion artefact on pulse oximeters : evaluation of four instruments and finger probes . the ability of the ohmeda 3700 , nellcor n200 , datex satlite plus and simed s100 pulse oximeters to detect induced hypoxaemia in the presence of motion artefact was assessed , under conditions of controlled vibration using an industrial vibration facility . vibration at 4 hz and 8 hz induced increases in detection time for hypoxaemia and spurious decreases in the displayed sao2 in some of the oximeters tested . finger-dependent differences in oximeter performance and pulse rate registration were noted especially in those oximeters without ecg linkage ( ohmeda 3700 and simed s100 ) . subsequently , eight different pulse oximeter finger probes were assessed for those characteristics that may predispose to motion artefact . there were marked differences in the mass of the probes , the forces exerted on the test finger and in the force required to displace the probes from the subject 's finger . differences in both the microprocessor programmes and the physical characteristics of the finger probes may explain the observed differences in function . similar studies should form part of the standard evaluation of new pulse oximeters . 
diclofenac for day-care arthroscopy surgery : comparison with a standard opioid therapy . sixty unpremedicated patients presenting for day-care arthroscopy surgery were allocated randomly to receive diclofenac 1 mg kg-1 i.m. , fentanyl 1 microgram kg-1 i.v. or no analgesic during the course of anaesthesia . patients receiving fentanyl had slightly , although not significantly prolonged recovery times . patients receiving diclofenac had significantly improved postoperative visual analogue pain scores compared with patients receiving placebo medication ( p less than 0.05 ) . with fentanyl , pain scores were reduced also , but the effect was not statistically significant . both fentanyl and diclofenac produced significant reduction in postoperative analgesic requirements ( p less than 0.05 ) . we conclude that diclofenac 1 mg kg-1 i.m. was an effective analgesic for arthroscopic procedures on the knee and is a useful alternative to opioids for day-care patients . 
effect of indomethacin on pain relief after thoracotomy . the effect of indomethacin on postoperative pain was studied in 60 adult patients undergoing thoracotomy in a prospective , randomized , double-blind manner . patients receiving indomethacin required significantly less opioid after operation and had significantly lower pain scores compared with the control group . pain on movement and on coughing were reduced also . no major adverse effects were encountered . 
late postoperative episodic and constant hypoxaemia and associated ecg abnormalities . twenty-two patients without cardiopulmonary disease and undergoing elective major abdominal surgery were monitored continuously with a holter tape recorder and a pulse oximeter on one night before operation and the first two nights after operation ( 23:00 to 07:00 ) , without oxygen therapy . mean heart rate increased 16 beat min-1 ( p less than 0.001 ) and mean oxygen saturation ( sao2 ) decreased 2.6 % ( p less than 0.001 ) after operation . episodic oxygen desaturation to less than 80 % occurred in four patients before operation , but in 13 patients after operation ( p less than 0.05 ) . ecg abnormalities were observed in 10 patients before operation and in 16 patients after operation ( ns ) . individual maximum st depression was more pronounced after than before operation ( p less than 0.05 ) . episodic desaturation was related closely to tachycardia in six patients before operation and one patient after operation ; before operation to atrioventricular block in one patient , and after operation to st depression in two patients . mean sao2 on the second night after operation correlated with total dose of opioid for pain relief ( rs = -0.48 ; p less than 0.05 ) , and postoperative decrease in sao2 correlated with postoperative increase in heart rate ( rs = -0.43 ; p less than 0.05 ) . no patient had postoperative cardiac complications indicating treatment . 
are myotonias and periodic paralyses associated with susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia ? excised muscles from patients with myotonia or periodic paralysis were subjected to the in vitro contracture test for susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia ( mh ) . in a group of 44 patients , this standard test gave four positive , 10 equivocal and 30 negative results . the results for 27 control muscles from normal subjects were negative . when the test was performed with less than normal concentrations of contracture-triggering substances ( caffeine less than or equal to 2 mmol litre-1 , less than or equal to 2 % halothane ) , 70 % of the muscles from the patients and only 15 % of the controls responded with small contractures ( less than 0.2 g ) . these results should not be taken to indicate that the patients have the genetic trait for mh . the positive and equivocal test results , in addition to the slight contractures , may be accounted for by the electrical after-activity in the cases of pure myotonia , and by increased resting myoplasmic [ ca2 + ] in myotonic dystrophy . this shows that the in vitro contracture test lacks specificity . 
nitrous oxide antagonizes cns stimulation by laudanosine in mice . we have investigated whether nitrous oxide antagonizes or augments the cns stimulant action of laudanosine in mice by comparing the mean convulsive doses ( cd50 ( se ] of a control group and those following pretreatment with 65 % nitrous oxide in oxygen for 20 and 180 min . nitrous oxide significantly increased cd50 from 46.8 ( 1.4 ) mg kg-1 of control to 57.3 ( 1.3 ) mg kg-1 at 20 min and 53.5 ( 1.7 ) mg kg-1 at 180 min . the attenuation of the effect of nitrous oxide at 180 min , suggestive of possible partial drug tolerance , was not statistically significant . these findings indicate that nitrous oxide antagonizes the cns stimulating action of laudanosine . 
sinus arrest induced by trivial nasal stimulation during alfentanil-nitrous oxide anaesthesia . a case is reported of bradycardia and sinus arrest induced by insertion of a nasal temperature probe . other possible causes of bradycardia and sinus arrest under anaesthesia are reviewed briefly . evidence for the neurological basis of a nasocardiac reflex , similar to the oculocardiac reflex , is presented . a minor , trivial stimulus may elicit this reflex . 
7th nerve palsy after extradural blood patch . we describe a patient who developed a 7th cranial nerve palsy following an extradural blood patch ; full recovery followed . the likely aetiology is discussed . 
anaesthetic hazards of aortocaval fistula . a 66-yr-old man was anaesthetized for repair of a suspected ruptured aortic aneurysm . he became deeply cyanosed and suffered two episodes of asystole as the surgeons entered the abdomen . after the aorta was cross-clamped his condition improved markedly and no further problems ensued . surgical exploration demonstrated intact aneurysms of the aorta and left iliac artery , the former containing a 3-4 cm long aortocaval fistula . the aneurysms and fistula were repaired and his further course was uncomplicated . potential causes for the cyanosis and cardiac arrest in this patient are discussed . 
the significance of leu 8 negative t cells in lymphoid skin infiltrates : malignant transformation , selective homing or t-cell activation ? the expression of leu 8 was studied on skin biopsies from a large group of patients with benign and malignant skin disorders and correlated with the expression of t-cell differentiation antigens and activation markers . the effect of in vitro stimulation of peripheral blood t cells and t-cell subsets on the expression of leu 8 antigen was also determined . in all the skin diseases studied an inverse relationship was found between the proportions of cells expressing leu 8 and hla-dr . a deficiency of leu 8 positive cells was not specific for mycosis fungoides , but was also found in several reactive dermatoses . stimulation of peripheral blood cells with phytohaemagglutinin ( pha ) , concanavalin a ( con a ) , and anti-cd3-pma resulted in a considerable decrease of leu 8 antigen expression on day 3 in both cd4 + and cd8 + t cells . these data suggest that the low proportion of leu 8 + t cells in mycosis fungoides and several reactive skin disorders is not related to malignant transformation or selective homing of leu 8 - t cells , but probably results from local t-cell activation . 
treatment of severe acne with isotretinoin in patients with inflammatory bowel disease . four patients with inflammatory bowel disease and severe cystic acne were treated with isotretinoin . two patients had a successful course of treatment without any gastrointestinal side-effects . one patient had two episodes of profuse rectal bleeding that were probably related to pre-existing haemorrhoids . the fourth patient had a flare-up of his crohn 's disease after starting isotretinoin . 
pachyonychia congenita complicated by hidradenitis suppurativa : a family study . a family is described in which five of the six members with the jackson-lawler type of pachyonychia congenita also had varying degrees of hidradenitis suppurativa . we suggest an association between this type of pachyonychia congenita and hidradenitis suppurativa . 
profound digital collagen atrophy : a new cutaneous presentation of adrenal-dependent cushing 's syndrome . a 59-year-old caucasian housewife presented with a 2-year history of marked loss of tissue substance from the finger and toe pulps and the heel pads . there was no clinical evidence or history of urticaria or other inflammatory change . investigations demonstrated a raised plasma cortisol secondary to a left adrenal adenoma . skin biopsies showed abnormalities of dermal collagen , but no evidence of elastin destruction . this case presents an unusual variant of the cutaneous atrophy associated with cushing 's syndrome . 
home treatment for acute psychiatric illness objective -- to determine the factors influencing the successful outcome of community treatment for severe acute psychiatric illnesses that are traditionally treated in hospital . design -- all patients from a single electoral ward who were either admitted to hospital or treated at home over a two year period ( 1 october 1987 to 30 september 1989 ) were included in the study and their case notes audited . the second year of the study is reported . setting -- electoral ward of sparkbrook , birmingham . subjects -- 99 patients aged 16-65 with severe acute psychiatric illness . results -- 65 patients were managed by home treatment alone ; 34 required admission to hospital . the location of treatment was significantly ( all p less than 0.05 ) influenced by social characteristics of the patients ( marital state , age ( in men ) , ethnicity , and living alone ) and by characteristics of the referral ( occurring out of hours ; assessment taking place at hospital or police station ) . dsm-iii-r diagnosis was more weakly associated with outcome . violence during the episode was significantly related to admission , although deliberate self harm was not . conclusions -- home treatment is feasible for most patients with acute psychiatric illness . a 24 hour on call assessment service increases the likelihood of success because admission is determined more strongly by social characteristics of the patient and the referral than by illness factors . admission will still be required for some patients . a locally based mental health resource centre , a 24 hour on call service , an open referral system , and an active follow up policy increase the effectiveness of a home treatment service . 
ultrasonography compared with intravenous urography in the investigation of adults with haematuria objective -- to compare ultrasonography with intravenous urography in the investigation of adults with haematuria . design -- prospective study entailing the examination of all patients with both investigations concurrently . the investigations were performed independently on routine lists by different duty radiologists . each was aware of the details of the request form but not of the findings of the other investigation . setting -- radiology department of a teaching hospital . patients -- 155 consecutive adult patients ( aged 18-93 ) referred from general practitioners and hospital outpatient clinics with a history of haematuria . follow up -- when results of both examinations proved normal no clinical or radiological follow up was sought . all abnormal findings of either investigation were correlated with results of subsequent imaging studies or operative findings . results -- 81 patients ( 52 % ) had normal findings on urography and ultrasonography . overall , the findings of ultrasonography concurred with those of urography in 144 cases ( 93 % ) . among the discrepant findings of the two investigations ultrasonography missed two ureteric calculi ; one was in a non-dilated ureter , and in the other case ultrasonography detected the secondary ureteric dilatation . ultrasound examination alone detected four bladder tumours not visible on urography with sizes ranging from 5 to 21 mm , representing one fifth of the 20 cystoscopically proved bladder tumours detected in the series . ultrasonography detected all the 22 neoplastic lesions discovered in the study ( 20 bladder , two renal ) . ultrasonography clarified the nature of renal masses evident in three urograms ( simple cysts ) . conclusions -- ultrasonography is a safe and accurate method of investigating the urinary tract in adults with haematuria . when combined with a single plain abdominal radiograph it proved to be superior to urography as the primary imaging study in this series . ultrasonography should certainly be preferred to urography if cystoscopy is not planned . no urothelial tumours of the upper urinary tract were found in the series , reflecting their rarity . for those patients in whom ultrasonography and plain radiography have shown no abnormality and in whom cystoscopic appearances are normal urography would be advisable to exclude urothelial tumours of the upper urinary tract . 
leukaemia complicating treatment for hodgkin 's disease : the experience of the british national lymphoma investigation . objective -- to determine the incidence of and risk factors for the development of secondary acute leukaemia and myelodysplasia in patients treated in british national lymphoma investigation 's studies of hodgkin 's disease since 1970 . patients -- 2676 patients entered into hodgkin 's disease studies between february 1970 and november 1986 . data accrued up to november 1988 were analysed , ensuring a minimum follow up period of two years . design -- retrospective analysis of multicentre trial data by case-control and life table methods . results -- 17 cases of secondary leukaemia were recorded in this group of 2676 patients , giving an overall risk at 15 years of 1.7 % . the risks of leukaemia after chemotherapy alone and chemotherapy with radiotherapy were not significantly different . the risk of leukaemia increased sharply with the amount of treatment given as measured by the number of attempts at treatment . the 15 year risks of leukaemia were 0.2 % , 2.3 % , and 8.1 % for patients receiving one , two , or three or more attempts at treatment . the highest risk , 22.8 % at 15 years , was observed in patients treated with lomustine ( ccnu ) , and a case-control study suggested that this was an independent risk factor . the risk of secondary leukaemia was largely related to the overall quantity of treatment , although exposure to lomustine seemed to be an important risk factor . treatment with both drugs and radiation was not more leukaemogenic than treatment with drugs alone . the greatest risk of secondary leukaemia was seen in multiply treated patients who were unlikely to be cured of hodgkin 's disease . conclusions -- avoidance of secondary leukaemia should be a minor factor in the choice of treatment for hodgkin 's disease . 
dilatation in the duplex kidney : 3 unusual cases . dilatation in the upper limb of a duplex ureter is usually secondary to obstruction and may be associated with a ureterocele . by contrast , vesicoureteric reflux is the usual cause of a dilated lower moiety ureter . we report 3 cases in which unusual or complex causes of dilatation of 1 limb of a duplex ureter were demonstrated . 
crystalluria , medullary matrix crystal deposits and bladder calculi associated with an acutely induced renal papillary necrosis . a single ( 100 mg/kg ) intraperitoneal dose of 2-bromoethanamine hydrobromide induced renal papillary necrosis ( rpn ) acutely in rodents and caused a transient crystalluria between 4 and 8 h after dosing . these crystals comprised struvite or magnesium ammonium phosphate ( map ) as assessed by shape , solubility , infra-red spectrum and x-ray microprobe analysis . acid-soluble , bi-refringent crystals were also present within the renal medullary matrix during the same time period as the crystalluria . the presence of the map was associated with loss of the anionic renal medullary mucopolysaccharides staining . a total of 5/64 rats with a 2-bromoethanamine-induced renal papillary necrosis and monitored for up to 160 days had bladder calculi that were predominantly map . these data suggest that medullary mucopolysaccharide matrix disruption associated with rpn leads to a release of previously bound cations , super-saturation and the nucleation of crystalline map . these processes could also be implicated in the formation of map bladder calculi . 
the encased ureter : bullet and bodkin pattern , a reliable radiographic sign . among the causes of constricted ureter is benign or malignant encasement . the diagnosis of ureteric encasement is frequently overlooked , even by well informed clinicians and radiologists . the most common benign cause is retroperitoneal fibrosis and the most frequent malignant causes are extension from an adjacent primary tumour , true metastases to the ureter and lymphoma . lack of recognition of the process may lead to mistaken diagnosis of an inflammatory stricture or infiltrating transitional cell tumour , with resultant inappropriate management . a sign which appears to be almost specific for encasement , the bullet and bodkin configuration , is described here . newer imaging modalities such as computed tomography and ultrasound , while helpful , are probably less sensitive and less specific than the retrograde ureterogram because a detectable mass is not always present . 
the perineal artificial sphincter for acquired incontinence -- a cut and dried solution ? sixteen males with stress incontinence due to sphincter damage were investigated with videourodynamic studies after implantation of a perineal artificial urinary sphincter . twelve patients were rendered dry ; 4 remained incontinent , all of whom were shown by cystometry to have incontinence from detrusor instability . of these , 2 also had stress incontinence proven by videourography . detrusor instability was present in 9 patients before implantation ; the instability worsened considerably in 2 patients and new instability was shown in another 2 patients . the limitations of the artificial urinary sphincter and the implications of detrusor instability in patients with an artificial sphincter are discussed . the artificial urinary sphincter is an extremely successful device for the treatment of acquired stress incontinence . 
antibiotic compared with antiseptic prophylaxis for prostatic surgery . two different regimens of cephalosporin antibiotic prophylaxis were compared with antiseptic lubricating jelly to try to prevent infection and complications in 196 men after prostatic surgery . pre-operative urine was cultured and prostatic chips ( 170 cases ) were also cultured to define the source of any infection . the use of antibiotics was associated with a reduced risk of postoperative bacteriuria . no serious complications occurred , although 1 patient in the antiseptic treated group developed rigors ; 79 of 170 patients ( 46 % ) had positive prostatic chip cultures , of whom 74 had sterile pre-operative urine . there was no association between the result of chip culture and the presence of a pre-operative catheter . culture positive patients had an increased risk of post-operative urine infection , although the same organism was found in the prostate and urine in only 36 % of cases of post-operative bacteriuria and in 43 ( 54 % ) the organism cultured from the prostate was staphylococcus albus . this study provides further evidence of the benefit of true prophylactic antibiotic therapy for transurethral prostatic surgery and the prostatic chip data suggest that some of the risk is due to pre-operative contamination of the prostate in the absence of per-operative urinary infection or catheterisation . 
radiotherapy for palliation of locally advanced prostatic carcinoma . some patients present with distressing symptoms due to locally advanced prostatic carcinoma which may be refractory to hormonal manipulation and/or surgical treatment . over an 8-year period 26 patients received local palliative radiotherapy for recurrent bleeding and lower urinary outflow tract obstruction . all were treated with conventional external beam radiotherapy and all but 2 obtained useful palliation of symptoms , especially those with recurrent bleeding . we also found that radiotherapy could be given to the majority of patients on an out-patient basis in 2 or 3 fractions . this was well tolerated and there were few side effects . 
blunt renal trauma in childhood . features indicating severe injury . the clinical presentation of children with blunt renal trauma may differ from that of adults . the clinical features at presentation of 50 consecutive children ( 20 severe injuries , no pedicle injuries ) admitted over a period of almost 8 years were reviewed to determine if there were clinical clues to major renal trauma in childhood . gross haematuria and low haematocrit were the most helpful factors at the time of presentation and correlated well with severe renal injury . hypotension was seen in 4 patients and only 1 had severe renal trauma . suspicion of a major renal injury should be high when there is gross haematuria or a low haematocrit . in this study only 1 of 20 patients with major renal injury demonstrated clinical signs of shock . unlike adults , hypotension does not appear to be a reliable indicator of the severity of renal injury in children and diagnostic evaluation should not be reserved only for those in shock . 
the importance of congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium in familial adenomatous polyposis . we describe a family with familial adenomatous polyposis ( fap ) and congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium ( rpe ) . three of five members with fap showed flat , well-demarcated , round to oval pigmented patches of congenital hypertrophy of the rpe . we stress the importance of congenital hypertrophy of the rpe as a clinical marker in identifying patients with fap since they are at risk for cancer . 
orbital compartment syndrome . direct measurement of orbital tissue pressure : 1 . technique . many disorders of the orbit produce an increase in intraorbital pressure , which may result in the development of an orbital compartment syndrome and visual loss . traditionally , orbital tension is assessed clinically by indirect means based on retrodisplacement of the globe . the authors describe their experience with the " slit-catheter " technique for direct tissue pressure measurement as applied to the orbit . the preliminary results indicate that normal orbital pressure ranges from 3.0 to 6.0 mm hg . in patients with graves ' orbitopathy the values ranged from 7.0 to 15.0 mm hg . the results suggest that the technique may have many exciting possibilities as a clinical research tool in orbital disease , and its use will result in better understanding of orbital compartment syndromes . 
multiagent chemotherapy in relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia in children . twenty-seven evaluable children with early first bone marrow relapse of acute lymphoblastic leukemia were treated with an intensive induction/consolidation and ongoing maintenance therapy . induction therapy consisted of a 35-day course of daunomycin , vincristine , and prednisone , immediately followed by teniposide , cytosine arabinoside ( ara-c ) , and l-asparaginase . intrathecal methotrexate , hydrocortisone , and ara-c were given through the induction/consolidation phase . twenty-three of 27 patients achieved remission by the end of induction/consolidation . maintenance with the same drugs in a modified dosage schedule continued for approximately 2 years . a small subgroup of patients who were m3 at day 35 but m1 at day 56 ( end of induction/consolidation ) and had a cumulative event-free survival ( efs ) of only 0.40 at 6 months , all had relapsed by 15 months . however , the efs for m1 patients by day 35 and maintained on chemotherapy was 0.64 at 12 months and 0.32 at 30 , 36 , and 48 months , respectively . although good reinduction and remission duration rates at 12 to 24 months were achieved and an apparent plateau in survival occurs at 30 months , fall-off in survival would not be unexpected with probably less than 20 % alive after 5 years . 
choroid plexus tumors in the breast cancer-sarcoma syndrome . choroid plexus neoplasms are rare epithelial tumors of the central nervous system . a carcinoma of the choroid plexus occurred in a child from a family with the breast cancer-sarcoma syndrome ( li-fraumeni or sbla syndrome ) , an inherited condition characterized by the development of diverse neoplasms ( sarcoma , breast cancer , brain tumors , leukemia , adrenal cortical carcinoma , and others ) . choroid plexus carcinomas were identified in two kindreds previously reported with the syndrome . the literature contains reports of choroid plexus neoplasms occurring in families and in individuals with multiple primary tumors . choroid plexus neoplasm may be a manifestation of the inherited proclivity to tumor development in the breast cancer-sarcoma syndrome . 
systolic wall stress and ventricular arrhythmia : the role of acute change in blood pressure in the isolated working rat heart . 1 . the effect of a sudden acute change in blood pressure upon arrhythmia provocation has been studied in an isolated working heart model from the wistar-kyoto strain of rat . twenty-four hearts were studied . 2 . they were perfused with two different , modified , krebs-henseleit solutions at a fixed left atrial pressure . 3 . acute changes in pressure , both increases and decreases , were arrhythmogenic . whilst ectopic activity was more predictably produced by pressure reductions , this consisted of simple ventricular ectopics only . pressure increases , in contrast , were capable of provoking more complex and sustained arrhythmias . 4 . the effect of pressure changes were highly dependent upon electrolyte concentrations in the perfusate . low potassium and magnesium concentrations increased the amount of arrhythmia provoked by pressure increases but tended to reduce that provoked by pressure reductions . 5 . we conclude that the direct effect of an acute change in pressure upon the myocardium is arrhythmogenic . however , the myocardial response to a pressure change is interdependent upon prevailing electrolyte concentrations . 
vascular hypertrophy , renin and blood pressure in the young spontaneously hypertensive rat . 1 . cardiovascular reactivity , blood vessel morphology , blood pressure and the activity of the renin-angiotensin system were determined in the 3-week-old spontaneously hypertensive ( shr ) , wistar-kyoto ( wky ) and outbred wistar ( wis ) rat . 2 . in an isolated perfused mesenteric artery preparation the shr had a significantly increased maximum response to kcl and noradrenaline ( p less than 0.02 ) compared with the wky . using a myograph , vascular structure was measured over a range of resistance arteries and showed a significant correlation between lumen diameter and both media cross-sectional area and thickness , with the regression line for the shr shifted upwards indicating both increased media area and thickness . this was associated with a slight , but significant , narrowing of the lumen ( p less than 0.01 ) and an increased media/lumen ratio ( 0.049 + / - 0.01 , 0.034 + / - 0.007 , 0.036 + / - 0.008 for shr , wky and wis , respectively , means + / - sd p less than 0.001 ) . the shr had a greater heart/body weight ratio than either the wky or the wis ( p less than 0.001 ) . 3 . both mesenteric artery and membrane protein content were higher in the shr , indicating an increase in cell size or number . 4 . plasma renin activity ( means + / - sd ) was lower in the shr ( 1.0 + / - 0.7 pmol of angiotensin i h-1 ml-1 ) than in the wky ( 2.2 + / - 1.2 pmol of angiotensin i h-1 ml-1 , p less than 0.001 ) but not different from that in the wis ( 1.2 + / - 0.8 pmol of angiotensin i h-1 ml-1 ) . mesenteric artery vascular renin concentration was also lower in the shr ( p = 0.06 ) . 
protein turnover in uraemia in the rat . 1 . the effect of uraemia on the rates of protein synthesis and protein degradation in liver , heart and vastus lateralis muscle were examined in the rat . uraemia was induced by a five-sixths nephrectomy and the rates of protein turnover were compared with pair-fed sham-operated littermate controls . 2 . the procedure produced plasma concentrations ( means + / - sem ) of urea of 7.3 + / - 0.4 mmol/l in control and 39 + / - 2 mmol/l in uraemic rats , and of creatinine of 41 + / - 1 mumol/l in control and 133 + / - 7 mumol/l in uraemic rats . 3 . uraemia reduced the rates of protein synthesis in liver , heart and muscle by 35 + / - 5 , 4.0 + / - 1.2 and 4.0 + / - 0.6 % / day , respectively , compared with control rats ( p less than 0.01 ) . since the reductions in tissue growth rate were too small to be accounted for by the reduction seen in protein synthesis alone , this implied that protein degradation was also reduced . uraemia also caused an 18 % reduction in the rate of growth as measured by the increase in tail length ( p less than 0.01 ) . 4 . uraemia reduced both protein synthesis and protein degradation . protein synthesis exceeded protein degradation in all tissues . this would cause a reduced rate of protein accumulation in the uraemic compared with the control rats , and hence a reduced rate of growth . 
causes , diagnosis , and treatment of pharyngitis . pharyngitis is a common disease of the respiratory tract that can be caused by several different viruses and bacterial organisms . clinically speaking , the most important causative agent is group a streptococcus ( streptococcus pyogenes ) . although rare , postpharyngitis complications arise as a result of disease caused almost exclusively by group a streptococcus . because group a streptococcal pharyngitis usually responds well to antimicrobial treatment , it is important to diagnose it . penicillin , erythromycin , and peroral first-generation cephalosporins have been documented to be effective . in addition to group a streptococcus , c. pneumoniae and m. pneumoniae have also been detected in patients with pharyngitis . the possibility of diagnosing these organisms is limited at the present . clinical surveys are still needed , moreover , to evaluate the effect of antimicrobial treatment on the disease caused by these organisms . although routine viral diagnostic methods do not help primary care physicians in treating patients with pharyngitis , information on bacteria and viruses in the immediate environment could prove to be of great help in daily clinical work . 
hypothalamic glucocorticoid implants prevent fetal ovine adrenocorticotropin secretion in response to stress . we evaluated the role of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus ( pvn ) in control of acth secretion in fetal sheep . dexamethasone ( dex , 700 micrograms ) ( n = 6 ) or cholesterol ( chol , 700 micrograms ) ( n = 5 ) implants were placed bilaterally 2 mm lateral to pvn of fetal sheep at 108 to 111 days of gestation ( dga ) . after 5 days recovery , fetuses were challenged with : 1 ) hypotension ( 50 % drop of blood pressure ) , 2 ) hypoxemia ( fall of greater than 5 mm hg in fetal pao2 ) , and 3 ) corticotropin-releasing hormone ( crh ) ( 10 micrograms iv , single injection to fetus ) . hypotension and hypoxemia were repeated after 125 dga . compared with chol , dex fetuses had lower average concentrations of acth in plasma after hypotension [ 23 + / - 0.5 vs. 149 + / - 83.8 and 31 + / - 13.1 vs. 101 + / - 31.3 pg ml-1 at less than 125 and more than 125 dga , respectively ( mean + / - sem , p less than 0.05 ) ] and during hypoxemia [ 11 + / - 1.6 vs. 292 + / - 152.8 and 33 + / - 9.4 vs. 304 + / - 91.3 pg ml-1 at less than 125 and more than 125 dga , respectively ( p less than 0.05 ) ] . dex and chol responses to crh at 122 to 127 dga ( 10 micrograms iv ) were not different ( 38 + / - 23.9 vs. 92 + / - 26.7 pg ml-1 , respectively ) . immunocytochemistry demonstrated that crh was decreased in pvn and eliminated from median eminence in dex , but not in chol fetuses . arginine vasopressin ( avp ) immunostaining of pvn of dex and chol fetuses was similar ; however , unlike chol , dex fetuses showed no avp immunostaining of the external zone of median eminence . these results show that , in fetal sheep , high concentrations of glucocorticoid near the fetal pvn prevent increases in plasma acth secretion seen in controls in response to hypotension and hypoxemia , and exert at least part of their effect at the level of the crh - and avp-producing neurons located in the pvn . 
autoradiographic evaluation of monoclonal antibodies ' access to melanoma-associated antigens in melanoma xenografts . autoradiography of nude mice bearing human malignant melanoma xenografts was performed to characterize the distribution pattern of radioiodinated anti-melanoma monoclonal antibodies ( moab ) and fragments in macroscopic tumor nodules . non-uniformity of radioactivity distribution was seen in all moab-xenograft combinations . the predominant patterns were marked deposition of radioactivity either in the periphery of nodules or in sharply delimited intra-tumoral foci . these patterns were generated by limitations in the accessibility of melanoma tissue rather than gross necrosis or heterogeneity of antigen expression . computer-aided densitometry of autoradiograms was used to elaborate the difference of accumulation in intra-tumoral hot spots versus cold areas . it was found that increasing uniformity was achieved by increasing the dose of moab ( i.e. , intact igg ) injected , whereas a reduction in the size of moab ( igg greater than f ( ab ' ) 2 greater than fab ) showed no such effect . 
glycolysis as primary energy source in tumor cell chemotaxis . the energy requirements via glycolytic pathways were directly measured in migrating tumor cells . motility in the metastatic human melanoma cell line a2058 , stimulated by insulinlike growth factor i ( igf-i ) , depends on glycolysis in the presence of glucose as its principal source of energy . motility in glucose-free medium was 75 % reduced and utilized mitochondrial respiration ( inhibited by oligomycin ) . with increasing ( physiologic ) glucose concentrations , there was a dramatic shift to anaerobic glycolysis as the energy source and 93 % elimination of the oligomycin inhibition of motility . oxamate , an inhibitor of glycolysis , inhibited motility at all glucose concentrations . co2 production from glycolysis and from the hexose monophosphate shunt was measured in migrating tumor cells . the time course and glucose-dose dependence of glycolytic co2 production correlated directly with motility . in contrast , mitochondrial co2 production was inversely related to glucose concentration . a monoclonal antibody for the igf-i receptor inhibited both motility and glycolytic co2 production , indicating that both processes are receptor mediated . 
influence of organ environment on extracellular matrix degradative activity and metastasis of human colon carcinoma cells orthotopic implantation of human colon carcinoma cells is useful for studying the behavior of metastatic subpopulations . we observed that the parental line and variants of human colon carcinoma km12 cells were all tumorigenic following implantation into the subcutis or cecal wall of balb/c nude mice . their ability to metastasize to distant organ sites varied , however , with the site of growth . subcutaneous ( sc ) tumors did not produce visceral metastases , whereas cecal tumors metastasized to the regional mesenteric lymph nodes and to the liver . to examine the influence of organ environment on the extracellular matrix-degrading activity of the tumors , we inoculated human colon carcinoma cells into the subcutis or cecal wall and after 7 weeks isolated and cultured the tumors in serum-free medium . the conditioned media of sc tumors contained very low levels of type iv collagenase ( gelatinase ) and heparanase ( heparan sulfate-specific endo-beta-d-glucuronidase ) , whereas the media of the cecal wall tumors contained high levels of both . zymograms of the media revealed that the intracecal human colon carcinomas secreted more than three times the amount of latent and active forms of 92-kd type iv collagenase than did the sc tumors . moreover , only the conditioned media of intracecal tumors contained latent and active forms of 64-kd type iv collagenase . histochemical analysis using rabbit antiserum raised against the synthetic peptides of 72-kd procollagenase type iv showed type iv collagenase in the intracecal tumors ; human colon carcinoma growing sc , however , were not stained significantly . these results suggest that factors in the organ environment may affect production and secretion of tumor extracellular matrix-degrading enzymes , and these factors may modify the metastatic behavior of human colon carcinoma cells in nude mice . 
mechanism of antitumor activity of tumor necrosis factor alpha with hyperthermia in a tumor necrosis factor alpha-resistant tumor . cells from a radiation-induced fibrosarcoma ( rif-1 ) are exceedingly resistant to tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) in vitro . we tested whether the addition of mild hyperthermia ( 42.5 degrees c , 30 minutes ) could enhance tnf-alpha activity against rif-1 tumors growing in syngeneic hosts ( c3h mice ) . tnf-alpha was administered intratumorally . tumor cell killing essentially was not measurable following tnf-alpha , hyperthermia , or a combination of the two . single-modality treatments also had no effect on tumor growth delay or on the x-ray dose ( given 24 hours after the primary treatment ) required to sterilize 50 % of the tumors . the combination of tnf-alpha and hyperthermia , however , resulted in a marked increase in tumor doubling time and a highly significant reduction in the x-ray dose required to sterilize the tumors . syngeneic lymph nodal lymphocytes and blood leukocytes did not appear to mediate the action of tnf-alpha on rif-1 cells in vitro . necrosis and hemorrhage were the most prominent histopathological alterations in the treated tumors . electron microscopic studies 6 hours after therapy showed increased damage to capillary endothelial cells and accumulation of neutrophils in the capillaries of tumors treated with tnf-alpha with or without heat , suggesting that neutrophils may mediate the endothelial cell injury . these observations indicate a greater than additive tumoricidal effect of tnf-alpha with hyperthermia . furthermore , they support the concept that the interaction between the two agents damages the vasculature , compromising the microcirculation and ultimately causing ischemic tumor necrosis . 
lipolytic factors associated with murine and human cancer cachexia . we have identified a lipolytic factor in extracts of a cachexia-inducing murine carcinoma ( mac16 ) that shows characteristics of an acidic peptide and appears to be composed of three fractions of apparent molecular weights corresponding to 3 kd , 1.5 kd , and 0.7 kd , as determined by exclusion chromatography . material with identical chromatographic and molecular weight characteristics was also present in the serum of patients with clinical cancer cachexia but absent from normal serum , even under conditions of starvation . the mac16 lipid factor , when injected into animals bearing the non-cachexia-inducing tumor mac13 , was capable of inducing weight loss without a significant reduction in food intake . similar lipolytic material , although in lower concentration , was also found in the mac13 tumor extracts . these findings suggest that cachexia may arise from the enhanced expression of a lipolytic factor associated with tumor cells . 
effects of the differentiating agent hexamethylene bisacetamide on normal and myelodysplastic hematopoietic progenitors . hexamethylene bisacetamide ( hmba ; nsc 95580 ) is a potent polar-planar differentiating agent of leukemia and solid tumor cell lines in vitro at clinically achievable concentrations . hmba is currently being studied in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome . previous phase i trials have demonstrated that hmba produces hematologic toxicity in morphologically normal bone marrows of patients with solid tumors . because of concern that hmba may produce more severe myelotoxicity in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome since these patients have limited hematopoietic reserves , we studied the effects of hmba on myelodysplastic and normal hematopoietic progenitors in vitro . hmba concentrations that are optimal for differentiation in vitro ( 2 to 5 mmol/l ) and hmba concentrations that are being achieved in clinical trials ( 1 to 2 mmol/l ) inhibited the growth of granulocyte-macrophage colony-forming units and erythroid burst-forming units from all 15 patients with myelodysplastic syndrome and all 4 normal subjects , hmba did not induce proliferation of myelodysplastic or normal progenitors at any concentration ; rather , it produced nearly identical inhibition of normal and myelodysplastic hematopoietic progenitors . hmba also produced quantitatively similar inhibition of clonogenic leukemic growth of two myeloid leukemia cell lines . for a differentiating agent to be effective , it will likely have to either produce both differentiation and proliferation of abnormal hematopoietic progenitors or show selective inhibitory effects on abnormal as compared with normal progenitors . although the mechanisms responsible for the antiproliferative effects of hmba can not be determined from this study , similar inhibitory effects of hmba on normal and abnormal hematopoietic progenitors suggest that hmba may be of limited utility in producing and sustaining elevations of peripheral blood cell counts in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome . 
recurrence of resected esophagogastric adenocarcinoma : results of re-resection . isolated local recurrence following potentially curative resection for carcinoma of the esophagus or esophagogastric junction does not necessarily imply pending systemic disease and early demise . while radiation alone or in combination with chemotherapy is standard treatment for such patients , resection is another available option . resection may also be a consideration should localized disease persist after non-operative therapy in the absence of metastases . a 5 year retrospective review was performed examining 204 resections performed prior to 1989 . only 5 patients underwent resection of locally recurrent esophagogastric ( eg ) adenocarcinoma during this period . no squamous carcinoma recurrences were resected . one patient is well 15 months later while another died at 18 months of other causes without recurrence . recurrence after re-resection occurred at 8 , 11 , and 24 months in the 3 other patients . although there were no postoperative deaths , major complications occurred in 4 patients . all 5 patients swallowed normally after operation . 
hemicorporectomy : a collective review . hemicorporectomy or translumbar amputation has been described as the most revolutionary of all operative procedures . frederick e. kredel , who first voiced the concept of the operation in 1950 , referred to it as halfectomy . demonstration of his cadaver studies established the feasibility of the operation . amputation is effected through the lower lumbar area of the body . necessary life functions are preserved in the upper torso . kredel envisioned hemicorporectomy as a curative operation for locally advanced cancer , limited to the pelvis , not encompassable by standard operative intervention . additional indications are intractable decubitus ulcers with malignant change , particularly in paraplegics ; pelvic organs , and bone infection with nonhealing fistulae ; and crushing trauma to the pelvis . the first hemicorporectomy operation was reported in 1960 . thirty-four operations have been recorded in the world literature . two heretofore unreported cases are added , raising the total to 36 . review of these 36 cases confirms the conviction that hemicorporectomy is a humane and ethical alternative to the suffering encumbered by advancing , painful , malodorous malignant disease not treatable by conventional means . while cure rates are not substantial , the best results are reported in paraplegics with intractable decubitus ulcers with or without malignancy . rehabilitation is prolonged and costly . most survivors have been restored to preoperative occupations or other gainful employment . 
human cerebral malaria : association with erythrocyte rosetting and lack of anti-rosetting antibodies . plasmodium falciparum isolates from 24 gambian children with cerebral malaria and 57 children with mild forms of the disease were assessed for their ability to form erythrocyte rosettes . all isolates from the children with cerebral malaria were able to form rosettes , whereas those from children with mild forms of the disease did not form rosettes , or had a significantly lower rosetting rate . plasma of children with cerebral malaria lacked anti-rosetting activity , whereas plasma of children with mild disease could often disrupt rosettes in vitro . a monoclonal antibody to p falciparum histidine rich protein ( pfhrp1/kp/kahrp ) disrupted rosettes of many of the isolates in vitro indicating that the rosetting ligand is relatively conserved compared with ligands associated with endothelial cytoadherence . the findings strongly support the hypothesis that erythrocyte rosetting contributes to the pathogenesis of cerebral malaria and suggest that anti-rosetting antibodies protect against cerebral disease . 
effacement of glomerular foot processes in kwashiorkor . in a study of the pathogenesis of the oedema of kwashiorkor the ultrastructure of the kidneys from 6 children was examined shortly after they died from oedematous malnutrition . there was a generalised effacement of the glomerular epithelial cells onto the basement membrane . the filtration slits that remained were narrowed . the picture was similar to that seen in minimal-change nephrotic syndrome -- but none of the children had albuminuria . the degree of effacement was statistically related to treatment with gentamicin . the findings suggest that there is a defect in the anionic charge of the glomerular basement membrane in oedematous malnutrition , that the membrane charge is more easily neutralised by cations such as gentamicin , and that , because proteinuria is not a feature of oedematous malnutrition , the proteinuria in other conditions associated with glomerular epithelial cell effacement ( eg , minimal-change nephrotic syndrome ) is due to something more complex than simple loss of charge . 
pregnancy outcome after inadvertent ivermectin treatment during community-based distribution . ivermectin is the drug of choice for community-based treatment of onchocerciasis . since pregnancy testing during mass distribution campaigns is not feasible , the safety of ivermectin in pregnancy must be established . during a 3-year study , ivermectin was distributed to the population of a rubber plantation ( 14,000 people ) in liberia . only 31 % of women were aware of their pregnancy status during the first month ; it was calculated that about half of women in the first trimester of pregnancy are likely to be treated inadvertently . 203 children born to women inadvertently treated during pregnancy were identified . in this limited sample , there was no significant difference in birth defects between treated and untreated mothers in the same population or compared with a reference population . children of treated and untreated mothers showed no difference in developmental status or disease patterns . further surveillance is necessary ; however , since no major effects of ivermectin on pregnancy outcome were detected , there seems no need to change existing strategies of ivermectin distribution . 
novel primitive lymphoid tumours induced in transgenic mice by cooperation between myc and bcl-2 . the putative oncogene bcl-2 is juxtaposed to the immunoglobulin heavy chain ( igh ) locus by the t ( 14 ; 18 ) chromosomal translocation typical of human follicular b-cell lymphomas . the bcl-2 gene product is not altered by the translocation , but its expression is deregulated , presumably by the igh enhancer e mu . constitutive bcl-2 expression seems to augment cell survival , as infection with a bcl-2 retrovirus enables certain growth factor-dependent mouse cell lines to maintain viability when deprived of factor . furthermore , high levels of the bcl-2 product can protect human b and t lymphoblasts under stress and thereby confer a growth advantage . mice expressing a bcl-2 transgene controlled by the igh enhancer accumulate small non-cycling b cells which survive unusually well in vitro but do not show a propensity for spontaneous tumorigenesis . in contrast , an analogous myc transgene , designed to mimic the myc-igh translocation product typical of burkitt 's lymphoma and rodent plasmacytoma , promotes b lymphoid cell proliferation and predisposes mice to malignancy in pre-b and b lymphoid cells . previous experiments have suggested that bcl-2 can cooperate with deregulated myc to improve in vitro growth of pre-b and b cells . here we describe a marked synergy between bcl-2 and myc in doubly transgenic mice . e mu-bcl-2 / myc mice show hyperproliferation of pre-b and b cells and develop tumours much faster than e mu-myc mice . suprisingly , the tumours derive from a cell with the hallmarks of a primitive haemopoietic cell , perhaps a lymphoid-committed stem cell . 
bcl-2 is an inner mitochondrial membrane protein that blocks programmed cell death . the t ( 14 ; 18 ) chromosomal translocation of human follicular b-cell lymphoma juxtaposes the bcl-2 gene with the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus . the bcl-2 immunoglobulin fusion gene is markedly deregulated resulting in inappropriately elevated levels of bcl-2 rna and protein . transgenic mice bearing a bcl-2 immunoglobulin minigene demonstrate a polyclonal expansion of resting yet responsive igm-igd b cells which display prolonged cell survival but no increase in cell cycling . moreover , deregulated bcl-2 extends the survival of certain haematopoietic cell lines following growth-factor deprivation . by using immunolocalization studies we now demonstrate that bcl-2 is an integral inner mitochondrial membrane protein of relative molecular mass 25,000 ( 25k ) . overexpression of bcl-2 blocks the apoptotic death of a pro-b-lymphocyte cell line . thus , bcl-2 is unique among proto-oncogenes , being localized to mitochondria and interfering with programmed cell death independent of promoting cell division . 
loss of photosynthetic and chlororespiratory genes from the plastid genome of a parasitic flowering plant . photosynthesis is the hallmark of plant life and is the only plastid metabolic process known to be controlled by plastid genes . the complete loss of photosynthetic ability , however , has occurred on several independent occasions in parasitic flowering plants . some of these plants are known to lack chlorophyll and certain photosynthetic enzymes , but it is not known to what extent changes have occurred in the genes encoding the photosynthetic apparatus or whether the plants even maintain a plastid genome . here we report that the nonphotosynthetic root parasite epifagus virginiana has a plastid chromosome only 71 kilobases in size , far smaller than any previously characterized land plant plastid genome . the epifagus plastid genome has lost most , if not all , of the 30 or more chloroplast genes for photosynthesis and most of a large family of plastid genes , the ndh genes , whose products may be involved in a plastid respiratory chain . the extensive changes in epifagus plastid gene content must have occurred in a relatively short time ( 5-50 x 10 ( 6 ) yr ) , because striga asiatica , a related photosynthetic parasite , has a typical complement of chloroplast genes for photosynthesis and chlororespiration . the plastid genome of epifagus has retained transcribed ribosomal rna and ribosomal protein genes , suggesting that it expresses one or more gene products for plastid functions not related to photosynthesis . 
induction of rna-stabilized dna conformers by transcription of an immunoglobulin switch region a deletion dna rearrangement is associated with immunoglobulin class switching from igm to igg , iga or ige this recombination occurs in immunoglobulin switch regions , which are complex , highly repetitive regions of dna . as switch regions become transcriptionally active just before switch recombination , analysis of the behaviour of these sequences during transcription could elucidate the mechanism of switch recombination . here , we report that transcription of a supercoiled plasmid containing the murine iga switch region ( s alpha ) leads to a loss of superhelical turns . the resulting series of less supercoiled plasmids is stabilized by rna-dna hybrids formed by the nascent rna transcripts , which remain base-paired with their dna templates . 
point mutation in the exoplasmic domain of the erythropoietin receptor resulting in hormone-independent activation and tumorigenicity . the receptors for erythropoietin and other cytokines constitute a new superfamily . they have no tyrosine-kinase or other enzyme motif and their signal-transducing mechanism is unclear . here we describe two classes of activating mutations in the erythropoietin receptor ( epor ) . a single point mutation in the exoplasmic domain enables it to induce hormone-independent cell growth and tumorigenesis after expression in nontumorigenic , interleukin-3-dependent haematopoietic cells . a c-terminal truncation in the cytoplasmic domain of the epor renders the receptor hyperresponsive to erythropoietin , but is insufficient to induce hormone-independent growth or tumorigenicity . the activating point mutation retards intracellular transport and turnover of the receptor . these alterations in metabolism and tumorigenicity caused by the epor with activating point mutations are similar to those observed in erythropoietin-independent activation of the wild type epor by association with gp55 , the friend spleen focus-forming virus glycoprotein . 
current trends in suture fixation of posterior chamber intraocular lenses . corneal surgeons were surveyed with regard to their technique of suture fixation of posterior chamber intraocular lenses in the absence of posterior capsular support . fifty-nine percent of the 260 respondents stated they perform the procedure almost exclusively during penetrating keratoplasty . scleral fixation was marginally favored over iris fixation by these surgeons . most intraoperative problems reported were related to the relative technical difficulty of the procedure , although transient hemorrhage from the ciliary body was also mentioned . postoperative complications cited included mechanical problems involving the lens and iris , cystoid macular edema , glaucoma , and endophthalmitis . 
scleral buckle revision to treat recurrent rhegmatogenous retinal detachment . recurrent rhegmatogenous retinal detachment sometimes occurs following scleral buckling surgery in the absence of advanced proliferative vitreoretinopathy ( grade c-2 or greater ) . such detachments can occur because : 1 ) the scleral buckle is not properly positioned beneath the original break ; 2 ) the buckle is not high enough ; 3 ) the break is elevated off the buckle due to progressive vitreous traction ; 4 ) there are new breaks ; and 5 ) chorioretinal adhesion is insufficient . techniques that may be useful for reattaching the retina in these cases include : 1 ) adding scleral buckling material to augment the original buckle ; 2 ) modifying the existing buckle without adding new material ; 3 ) replacing the original buckle with other material ; 4 ) re-treating inadequately closed breaks ; and 5 ) combinations of these four techniques . vitrectomy may be avoided in many cases . 
endophthalmitis after placement of a molteno implant . i report a case of early postoperative endophthalmitis following placement of a molteno implant . excellent results were obtained by immediate removal of the implant and surgical management of the infection , followed by replacement of the implant . 
techniques of adjustable suture strabismus surgery . adjustable sutures allow eye muscle positions to be changed following strabismus surgery , when the patient is awake and able to cooperate in muscle balance testing . bow-tie-knot and sliding-handle sutures can be adjusted within 24 hours after surgery . scleral traction sutures , which can be used to fix the globe to periorbital tissues during postoperative healing , can be adjusted for up to 14 days after surgery . we describe these techniques as well as an adjustable loop suture for conjunctival closure . 
severe anterior segment inflammation following corneal surgery for keratoconus . we present three keratoconus patients who experienced severe anterior segment inflammation , two following penetrating keratoplasty , and one following epikeratoplasty . a favorable response to indomethacin therapy in the second eyes of these patients suggests that the inflammation in the first ones was prostaglandin mediated . 
recurrent pain , illness intrusiveness , and quality of life in end-stage renal disease . repeated episodes of headache and muscle cramp were hypothesized to contribute to increased patient perceptions of illness intrusiveness and to compromised quality of life . standard measures of pain , illness intrusiveness , and quality of life were obtained on 2 occasions , each 6 weeks apart , from 100 end-stage renal disease patients . the impact of recurrent muscle cramps on perceptions of illness intrusiveness was conditional upon the occurrence of headache symptoms . perceptions of illness intrusiveness were significantly higher when both muscle cramp and headache symptoms occurred during one or more assessment intervals as compared to when muscle cramps or headaches , only , occurred . illness-related concerns and general feelings of pessimism were also significantly higher among patients who experienced recurrent episodes of muscle cramp . although no direct relations were observed between pain and other quality of life indicators , previous research has documented a relation between illness intrusiveness and quality of life . recurrent pain problems , thus , appear to contribute to increased illness intrusiveness and to reduced quality of life in end-stage renal disease patients . 
receptor changes in the spinal cord of sheep associated with exposure to chronic pain . there is evidence that post-injury hypersensitivity is partly due to changes in the central nervous system . sheep with foot rot were used to investigate the effect of chronic pain on some receptors thought to be involved in spinal nociceptive processing systems ( alpha 2 adrenoceptor and mu and delta opioid receptors ) . saturation binding studies showed a variable distribution of [ 3h ] clonidine ( alpha 2 adrenoceptor agonist ) in the spinal cord of normal sheep . the number of receptors ( bmax ) present in areas thought to be involved in nociceptive processing , laminae i and ii and lamina x , increased to 131 % and 169 % of control sheep values respectively in animals exposed to chronic pain . the affinity of the receptors ( kd ) , however , remained unchanged at approximately 2 nm . there was less [ 3h ] dago ( mu opioid agonist ) and [ 3h ] dpdpe ( delta opioid agonist ) binding in the sheep spinal cord . both opioid receptor types being mainly located in the superficial dorsal horn . the [ 3h ] dpdpe binding was unchanged in the sheep with foot rot , whilst the number ( bmax ) , but not the affinity , of the [ 3h ] dago binding sites increased in laminae i and ii in lame animals to 130 % of the control sheep values . hence , in animals in chronic pain , the number of alpha 2 adrenoceptors and mu opioid receptors increased mainly in areas of the sheep spinal cord associated with nociception . 
induction , blockade and restoration of a persistent hypersensitive state . a new model of chronic hypersensitivity was developed in the rat by daily intraplantar administration of either prostaglandin e2 dopamine or isoprenaline , for a period of 2 weeks . like other hyperalgesic mediators , dibutyryl-camp , when applied to the paws , caused an acute effect but did not produce persistent hypersensitivity . the persistent hypersensitive state was not affected by a typical non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug ( indomethacin ) , was temporarily inhibited by a centrally acting analgesic ( morphine ) , was partially inhibited by a protein synthesis inhibitor ( cycloheximide ) and abolished by a single dose of peripherally acting analgesics such as dipyrone or n-methyl morphine . once the residual hypersensitivity had been abolished with dipyrone or n-methyl morphine , a small dose of prostaglandin e2 , dopamine or interleukin-1 beta , which in normal animals causes a mild and short lived effect , restored the persistent hypersensitive state . this ability to restore the persistent effect was not observed with intraplantar administration of dibutyryl-camp . our results suggest the existence of a peripheral trace of inflammatory pain , a phenomenon which may be associated with stimulation of neuronal adenylate cyclase and protein synthesis . this concept may explain part of the puzzle of chronic inflammatory pain and lead to the development of new analgesics . 
accidental poisoning with a superwarfarin compound ( brodifacoum ) in a child . the " superwarfarin " compounds are 4-hydroxy derivatives of coumarin that have increased activity and a longer duration of action than the parent compound . the superwarfarins are used widely in the united states as rodenticides and are effective against warfarin-resistant strains of rats . a chronic accidental ingestion of one of these products , brodifacoum , by a 7-year-old child who had bleeding and laboratory evidence suggestive of a vitamin k-related coagulopathy is reported . the bleeding manifestations were severe and prolonged , requiring 13 months for normalization of coagulation times . with a negative history of ingestion and despite clinical suspicion , documentation of superwarfarin poisoning was hampered by the lack of readily available assays for these compounds , even from the manufacturers . brodifacoum was also identified in rat feces from the family home . this finding raises the concern of poisoning not only from ingestion of brodifacoum particles themselves , but also from a fecal-oral route . a review of the literature is presented and the implications of this case for the practicing physician are discussed . 
differential regulation of human immunodeficiency viruses ( hivs ) : a specific regulatory element in hiv-2 responds to stimulation of the t-cell antigen receptor . the human immunodeficiency viruses ( hivs ) types 1 and 2 have similar genetic organization but differ significantly in nucleic acid sequence . although infection by either agent leads to symptoms of immunodeficiency , recent studies suggest potential differences in the time course and severity of these diseases . in this report , the transcriptional regulation and induction of these retroviruses were analyzed . we report that the regulation of hiv-2 differs from that of hiv-1 : a distinct t-cell activation pathway , triggering of the cd3 component of the t-cell receptor complex , stimulates hiv-2 but not hiv-1 gene expression . the response to t-cell receptor stimulation in hiv-2 is mediated partly by an upstream regulatory element , termed cd3r , which is recognized by a sequence-specific dna binding protein , nf-cd3r . jurkat t leukemia cell lines containing hiv-2 provirus also showed increased viral replication after stimulation of the t-cell receptor complex , in contrast to hiv-1 . these findings suggest that transcriptional regulation and induction of hiv-2 differ from hiv-1 and raise the possibility that different cofactors contribute to the activation of hiv-1 - and hiv-2-associated aids . 
tissue-specific transformation by epidermal growth factor receptor : a single point mutation within the atp-binding pocket of the erbb product increases its intrinsic kinase activity and activates its sarcomagenic potential . avian c-erbb is activated to a leukemia oncogene following truncation of its amino-terminal , ligand-binding domain by retroviral insertion . the insertionally activated transcripts encode protein products that have constitutive tyrosine kinase activity and that can induce erythro-leukemia but not sarcomas . we have found that a single point mutation within the atp-binding pocket of the tyrosine kinase domain in this truncated molecule can increase the ability of this oncogene to induce anchorage-independent growth of fibroblasts in vitro and fibrosarcoma formation in vivo . associated with this increased transforming potential is a corresponding increase in the kinase activity of the mutant erbb protein product . the mutation , which converts a valine to isoleucine at position 157 of the insertionally activated c-erbb product , is at a residue that is highly conserved within the protein kinase family . to our knowledge , this is the first demonstration of a point mutation in the atp-binding pocket that activates a tyrosine kinase . 
a retroviral promoter is sufficient to convert proto-src to a transforming gene that is distinct from the src gene of rous sarcoma virus . the src genes of four natural isolates of avian sarcoma viruses differ from cellular proto-src in two genetic substitutions : the promoter of the cellular gene is replaced by a retroviral counterpart , and at least six codons from the 3 ' terminus are replaced by retroviral or heterologous cell-derived elements . since virus constructs with a complete proto-src coding region failed to transform avian cells but acquired transforming function by point mutations of various codons , it has been proposed that point mutation is sufficient to convert proto-src to a transforming gene . however , promoter substitution is sufficient to convert two other proto-onc genes , proto-ras and proto-myc , to retroviral transforming genes . in view of this , we have reexamined whether promoter substitution , point mutation , or both are necessary to convert proto-src into a retroviral transforming gene . it was found that a recombinant virus ( rpsv ) , in which the src gene of rous sarcoma virus ( rsv ) was replaced by the complete coding region of proto-src , transformed quail and chicken embryo cells . the oncogene of rpsv differs from the src gene of rsv in three genetic properties : ( i ) it is weaker -- e.g. , transformed cells are flatter ; ( ii ) it is slower -- e.g. , focus formation takes 9 to 12 days compared to 4 days for rsv ; and ( iii ) its host range is narrower than that of rsv -- e.g. , only subsets of heterogeneous embryo cells are transformed by rpsv even after weeks or months . replacement of the proto-src 3 ' terminus of rpsv by that of src from rsv generates a recombinant virus ( rpvsv ) that equals rsv in transforming function . it is concluded that a retroviral promoter , naturally substituted via illegitimate recombination with retroviruses , is sufficient to convert at least three proto-onc genes , src , myc , and ras , to retroviral transforming genes . 
v-ha-ras transgene abrogates the initiation step in mouse skin tumorigenesis : effects of phorbol esters and retinoic acid . experimental carcinogenesis has led to a concept that defines two discrete stages in the development of skin tumors : ( i ) initiation , which is accomplished by using a mutagen that presumably activates a protooncogene , and ( ii ) promotion , which is a reversible process brought about most commonly by repeated application of phorbol esters . we have created a transgenic mouse strain that carries the activated v-ha-ras oncogene fused to the promoter of the mouse embryonic alpha-like , zeta-globin gene . unexpectedly , these animals developed papillomas at areas of epidermal abrasion and , because abrasion can also serve as a tumor-promoting event in mutagen-treated mouse skin , we tested these mice for their ability to respond to phorbol ester application . within 6 weeks virtually all treated carrier mice had developed multiple papillomas , some of which went on to develop squamous cell carcinomas and , more frequently , underlying sarcomas . we conclude that the oncogene " preinitiates " carrier mice , replacing the initiation/mutagenesis step and immediately sensitizing them to the action of tumor promoters . in addition , treatment of the mice with retinoic acid dramatically delays , reduces , and often completely inhibits the appearance of promoter-induced papillomas . this strain has use in screening tumor promoters and for assessing antitumor and antiproliferative agents . 
molecular characterization of inherited medium-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency . deficiency of medium-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase ( mcad ) is a common inherited defect in energy metabolism . characterization of the mrna encoding mcad in a dutch mcad-deficient patient revealed an a ---- g change at nucleotide position 985 of the mcad mrna coding region . this point mutation results in the substitution of a glutamic acid for a lysine at amino acid position 304 of the mature protein . the single base change was not found in any wild-type mcad mrnas . a mutant allele-specific oligonucleotide probe was used in a hybridization analysis of amplified genomic dna of mcad-deficient family members , a carrier , and normal individuals . the hybridization analysis specifically identified individuals who were heterozygotes or homozygotes . in addition to the point mutation , a significant proportion of the index patient 's mcad mrna contained a variety of deletions and insertions as a result of exon skipping and intron retention . the missplicing occurred in multiple regions throughout the mcad mrna . analysis of the patient 's mcad gene in the regions where the missplicing occurred most frequently did not reveal a mutation in the splicing acceptor or donor sites . therefore , the molecular characterization of this family revealed a crucial point mutation in the mcad gene and an unusual abnormality in mcad pre-mrna splicing . 
transformed and nontransformed cells differ in stability and cell cycle regulation of a binding activity to the murine thymidine kinase promoter . a dna binding activity to an upstream region of the murine thymidine kinase gene is regulated differently in a transformed and nontransformed cell line pair . differences in regulation were observed ( i ) after serum levels were reduced , ( ii ) when serum levels were returned to initial high levels , and ( iii ) while protein synthesis was inhibited . after reduction of serum levels , the binding activity was unstable in nontransformed balb/c 3t3 clone a31 cells but was significantly more stable in benzo [ a ] pyrene-transformed balb/c 3t3 cells . after serum concentration was returned to high levels , the kinetic pattern of the binding activity differed between nontransformed and transformed cells . while protein synthesis was inhibited , the binding activity was unstable in nontransformed cells and stable in transformed cells . partial inhibition of protein synthesis -- a more stringent condition to test instability -- prevented the induction of the binding activity in nontransformed cells . previously , the labile protein hypothesis set forth the criterion that a protein regulating the onset of dna synthesis should be unstable in nontransformed cells and stable in transformed cells . the dna binding activity described here satisfies this criterion . 
mapping chromosome band 11q23 in human acute leukemia with biotinylated probes : identification of 11q23 translocation breakpoints with a yeast artificial chromosome . translocations involving chromosome 11 , band q23 , are frequent recurring abnormalities in human acute lymphoblastic and acute myeloid leukemia . we used 19 biotin-labeled probes derived from genes and anonymous cosmids for hybridization to metaphase chromosomes from leukemia cells that contained four translocations involving band 11q23 : t ( 4 ; 11 ) ( q21 ; q23 ) , t ( 6 ; 11 ) ( q27 ; q23 ) , t ( 9 ; 11 ) ( p22 ; q23 ) , and t ( 11 ; 19 ) ( q23 ; p13 ) . the location of the cosmid probes relative to the breakpoint in 11q23 was the same in all translocations . of the cosmid clones containing known genes , cd3d was proximal and pbgd , thy1 , srpr , and ets1 were distal to the breakpoint on 11q23 . hybridization of genomic dna from a yeast clone containing yeast artificial chromosomes ( yacs ) , that carry 320 kilobases ( kb ) of human dna including cd3d and cd3g genes , showed that the yacs were split in all four translocations . these results indicate that the breakpoint at 11q23 in each of these translocations occurs within the 320 kb encompassed by these yacs ; whether the breakpoint within the yacs is precisely the same in the different translocations is presently unknown . 
inactivation of human alpha-globin gene expression by a de novo deletion located upstream of the alpha-globin gene cluster . synthesis of normal human hemoglobin a , alpha 2 beta 2 , is based upon balanced expression of genes in the alpha-globin gene cluster on chromosome 16 and the beta-globin gene cluster on chromosome 11 . full levels of erythroid-specific activation of the beta-globin cluster depend on sequences located at a considerable distance 5 ' to the beta-globin gene , referred to as the locus-activating or dominant control region . the existence of an analogous element ( s ) upstream of the alpha-globin cluster has been suggested from observations on naturally occurring deletions and experimental studies . we have identified an individual with alpha-thalassemia in whom structurally normal alpha-globin genes have been inactivated in cis by a discrete de novo 35-kilobase deletion located approximately 30 kilobases 5 ' from the alpha-globin gene cluster . we conclude that this deletion inactivates expression of the alpha-globin genes by removing one or more of the previously identified upstream regulatory sequences that are critical to expression of the alpha-globin genes . 
femorofemoral bypass : a profile of graft failure . we have reviewed our experience with 71 patients who had a femorofemoral bypass for unilateral iliac artery occlusion or stenosis . we analyzed morbidity , mortality , initial relief of symptoms , early patency , and long-term primary and secondary patency ; and we attempted to identify the cause of graft failure . the overall hospital mortality after operative repair was 4 % . one-year survival was 84 % and 2-year survival was 81 % . early patency was 98.5 % at 1 month , late patency was 91 % at 1 year and 82 % at 5 years . the major cause of graft failure was inadequate run-off and outflow disease progression . 
deep femoral to anterior tibial bypass after failed femoropopliteal reconstructions . deep femoral to anterior tibial artery bypass is a reconstructive technique occasionally applicable when more conventional attempts at revascularization of the distal portion of the leg have failed . three such patients , in whom the anterior tibial was the only distal patent branch of the popliteal artery , had severe symptoms of arterial insufficiency . deep femoral to anterior tibial bypass was done using autogenous the distal portion of the deep femoral artery was exposed through an anteromedial distal thigh approach . the three patients have been followed up for a mean of 20.3 months , and each maintains graft patency and marked symptomatic improvement . 
angiodysplasia : characterization , diagnosis , and advances in treatment . gastrointestinal bleeding accounts for 2 % of all adult hospital admissions each year . angiodysplasia is one of the most frequently reported causes of lower gastrointestinal bleeding . in 80 % of patients with bleeding angiodysplasia , the bleeding will stop spontaneously , but will often recur . although angiography may detect bleeding in 86 % of actively bleeding patients , the bleeding rate must be at least 0.5 ml/min . the treatment of choice for control of bleeding has been resection of the suspected segment of bowel , but this procedure is associated with a 10 % rebleeding rate and 7 % to 8 % mortality . superselective catheterization with infusion of vasoconstrictors has been used to control bleeding , but effects are short-lived . superselective embolization occludes an offending vessel , but is difficult to perform accurately and is associated with risk of infarction . laser photocoagulation controls bleeding in 84 % of patients , with a 6 % complication rate . this method of controlling bleeding offers distinct advantages , especially for the hemodynamically unstable patient . except for cases in which surgical resection is indicated , nd : yag laser photocoagulation is the safest , least invasive , and probably most effective means of treating angiodysplasia . 
thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura treated with high-dose intravenous gamma globulin . plasma infusion and/or plasma exchange has become standard therapy in the treatment of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura ( ttp ) . the management of patients in whom such primary therapy fails is difficult and uncertain . we have described a patient who obtained a sustained remission with the use of high-dose iv gamma globulin after an initial response to aggressive plasma exchange was followed by prompt relapse . our case and others suggest that high-dose iv igg may induce remission in patients with ttp who do not respond to standard plasma infusion and/or exchange . 
pheochromocytoma and acute myocardial infarction . when a pheochromocytoma is manifested as an acute myocardial illness , diagnosis may be difficult to make . if the tumor is suspected early enough , a workup can be done while the complications of the myocardial illness are being controlled ( as in our case ) . the tumor can then be expeditiously removed before any further problems develop . the case presented here underscores the importance of maintaining a high index of suspicion for a pheochromocytoma in any patient who has an unexpected myocardial event . 
complete jejunoileal necrosis due to torsion of the superior mesenteric artery . we have reported a case of small-bowel volvulus in which complete jejunoileal necrosis resulted from torsion of the superior mesenteric artery . this case was unusual not only because of the extent of necrosis but also because primary small-bowel volvulus is rare in adults . despite nearly total small-bowel resection , the patient continues to do well 6 months postoperatively . 
ulcerative lesions and herpes simplex virus type 2 in a patient with evan 's syndrome . we have described a case of herpes genitalis in a patient with evans 's syndrome who had violaceous macules leading to deep ulcerations . this case serves as a reminder that hsv infection may be atypical and have an unusual course in immunocompromised patients . with the availability of specific therapy for this infection , it is important to consider hsv in the differential diagnosis of all ulcerative skin lesions . 
endometriosis of the abdominal wall . endometriosis of the abdominal wall typically occurs as a painful mass in a lower abdominal incision from previous cesarean section or hysterectomy . most patients are young and in their active reproductive years . the histologic diagnosis requires a combination of either endometrial-like glands , endometrial stroma , or hemosiderin pigment . the diagnosis must be considered in any woman with an abdominal wall mass and a history of transabdominal gynecologic surgery . wide excision offers the best chance to prevent recurrence . 
acute myocardial infarction and chest pain syndromes after cocaine use . seventy patients hospitalized with chest pain after cocaine use were retrospectively evaluated to define the risk and clinical course of acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) . ami developed in 22 patients ( 31 % ) and transient myocardial ischemia was seen in an additional 9 patients ( 13 % ) . coronary risk factors did not distinguish those who developed ami from those who did not . the presenting electrocardiogram was abnormal in 20 of 22 patients who evolved ami and in 19 of 48 of those who did not . creatine kinase levels were elevated in 75 % of the patients , including 65 % of those who did not develop ami , but creatine kinase-mb elevations were only observed in the ami group . the route of cocaine administration did not predict ami and there was no predilection for a particular coronary vascular bed . the length of time between drug use and onset of ami pain was often quite prolonged ( median interval , 18 vs 1 hour in the non-ami group ) . eight of the patients with ami underwent cardiac catheterization and 4 had significant coronary narrowing . 
recanalization of chronic total coronary arterial occlusions by percutaneous excimer-laser and laser-assisted angioplasty . a low primary success and high restenosis rate after recanalization of chronic total occlusions by conventional coronary angioplasty have encouraged the application of new interventional techniques like excimer-laser angioplasty . in 39 patients with a coronary occlusion for 1 to 12 months , recanalization was attempted by laser angioplasty through a multifiber-catheter coupled to a pulsed xecl excimer laser . after successful passage of the occlusion by a standard guidewire in 27 patients ( 69 % ) , the laser catheter was advanced over the central guidewire and crossed the occlusion in 25 patients ( 64 % ) . in 2 patients with unsuccessful passage of the laser catheter , the subsequent attempt with a low profile balloon catheter also failed . in 19 of the 25 patients with successful laser recanalization , the residual stenosis exceeded 50 % and was therefore followed by additional balloon angioplasty . the average residual stenosis after laser was 61 + / - 17 % of the vessel diameter , and after balloon angioplasty 28 + / - 9 % ( n = 19 ) , whereas after laser angioplasty alone it was 38 + / - 5 % ( n = 6 ) . no complications associated with the laser application were observed . angiographic control after 24 hours showed a reocclusion of 2 ( 8 % ) recanalized vessels . in this pilot study , laser angioplasty proved to be a safe and feasible method for the treatment of chronic total coronary occlusions . because it was necessary to guide the catheter by a central wire , the primary success was limited by a successful passage of the wire of the occlusion . the rate of stand-alone laser angioplasty has to be increased by future improvements of the technique to enable a comparative evaluation of this method with conventional angioplasty . 
prevalence and prognostic significance of exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmias after coronary artery bypass grafting . exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmias occur often after coronary artery bypass grafting ( cabg ) , but their prognostic significance is unknown . two hundred patients examined by exercise electrocardiography and cardiac catheterization ( including left ventriculography , bypass graft and native coronary artery angiography ) before and 3 months after cabg were prospectively followed up . exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmias occurred more often after ( 49 of 200 patients , 24.5 % ) than before ( 32 of 200 patients , 16.0 % ) cabg ( p less than 0.05 ) . there were no differences between the patients with and without ventricular arrhythmias in the prevalence of graft patency ( 79 vs 80 % ) or the postoperative ejection fraction ( 57 + / - 9 vs 57 + / - 12 % ) . ten cardiac deaths occurred during the mean follow-up time of 61 + / - 19 months , 8 of which were witnessed sudden cardiac deaths . all cardiac deaths occurred in patients who did not have exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmias after cabg . the postoperative ejection fraction was lower in the cardiac death patients ( 42 + / - 16 % ) than in the survivors ( 58 + / - 10 % ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . no other clinical or angiographic variable predicted the occurrence of cardiac death . thus , the prevalence of exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmias increases after cabg , but the occurrence of ventricular arrhythmias does not indicate an increased risk of cardiac death . 
low-dose aspirin versus anticoagulants for prevention of coronary graft occlusion . the prevention of graft occlusion by aspirin ( 100 mg/day ) or heparin followed by phenprocoumon was investigated in a randomized trial in 235 patients after aortocoronary bypass operation . aspirin treatment started 24 hours before , and heparin 6 hours and phenprocoumon 2 days after surgery . the results of the vein graft angiography and the clinical outcome 3 months postoperatively did not differ : 22 % of 218 vein graft distal anastomoses in the aspirin group and 20 % of 272 in the anticoagulant group were occluded . at least 1 occluded distal anastomosis was present in 38 % of 74 patients in the aspirin-treated group and in 39 % of 86 in the anticoagulant group . worst-case analysis of all randomized patients showed graft occlusions , cardiovascular complications or lost to follow-up in 42 % of 122 aspirin-treated patients compared with 41 % of 113 patients treated with anticoagulants . for grafts with endarterectomy the occlusion rate was lower in the aspirin ( 12 % of 49 ) than in the anticoagulant ( 22 % of 41 ) group ( p less than or equal to 0.05 ) . increased perioperative blood loss in the aspirin group ( 1,211 + / - 814 ml in the first 48 hours vs 874 + / - 818 ml in the anticoagulant group [ p less than or equal to 0.001 ] ) without a higher reoperation rate indicates effective platelet inhibition with low-dose aspirin . because occlusion rates were equal but high in these patients with advanced stage of coronary artery disease , a combination of low-dose aspirin and anticoagulation should be investigated to reduce graft occlusion rates further . 
primary adrenal insufficiency : a new cause of reversible gastric stasis . primary adrenal insufficiency is known to cause a wide spectrum of sometimes severe upper gastrointestinal symptoms ; however , it has not previously been shown to be the cause of reversible gastric stasis . we have documented such a case in which the symptoms and physiologic abnormalities associated with gastric stasis were reversed by steroid replacement . a follow-up radionuclide gastric-emptying study after physiologic steroid replacement showed complete normalization of gastric emptying . although gastric stasis has long been suspected of being present with primary adrenal insufficiency , this represents the first case in which it has been documented , and so should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients presenting with chronic nausea and vomiting . 
multifocal gastric carcinoma arising from hyperplastic and adenomatous polyps . this paper is a presentation of the unusual case of a 61-yr-old woman operated on for multiple gastric cancers . two of the cancers were found in the hyperplastic polyps and one in the adenoma . apart from cancers that arose from these polyps , there were four separate polypoid or flat gastric carcinomas and three other hyperplastic polyps with no signs of malignancy , in this case . the presentation is followed by a detailed discussion focusing on the possible development of carcinoma in gastric hyperplastic polyps in view of the data from the literature . 
synchronous diffuse well-differentiated lymphocytic lymphoma and gastric adenocarcinoma presenting as splenomegaly and iron deficiency anemia . diffuse well-differentiated lymphocytic lymphoma ( d-wdll ) and chronic lymphocytic lymphoma ( cll ) represent closely related neoplasms which may have indolent courses . dating back more than one century , reports of associated second primary malignancies continue to intrigue clinicians . a case of synchronous d-wdll and gastric adenocarcinoma , presenting as splenomegaly and iron deficiency anemia , is presented . the case and literature are reviewed . 
reversal of chronic hepatic encephalopathy by colonic exclusion : poor correlation with blood gaba levels . previous studies have suggested that the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid ( gaba ) is a key factor in the syndrome of portasystemic encephalopathy . we report the case of a patient with medically intractable portasytemic encephalopathy after portacaval shunt who had marked clinical improvement after creation of an end ileostomy . plasma gaba and serum ammonia levels were measured before and after ileostomy . although the clinical syndrome and the eeg improved markedly after the ileostomy , the plasma gaba levels remained markedly elevated . preoperative and postoperative gaba levels were 865 and 633 pmol/ml , respectively ( nl = 100-180 pmol/ml ) . our findings confirm previous reports of the efficacy of colonic exclusion in patients with intractable portasystemic encephalopathy . however , our results conflict with the hypothesis that gaba itself is the key mediator of the syndrome . 
avascular necrosis of bone : a common serious complication of allogeneic bone marrow transplantation . purpose : to describe the incidence , presentation , clinical course , and management of avascular necrosis of bone following bone marrow transplantation , and to identify risk factors related to its development and outcome . patients and methods : all patients developing avascular necrosis after transplantation between march 1974 and may 1988 were identified by means of the minnesota bone marrow transplant database and hospital records and included in analysis . of 902 consecutive patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation , 28 developed avascular necrosis of bone . results : twenty-eight of 642 allogeneic transplant recipients ( 10.4 % by product limit estimate ) developed avascular necrosis compared to zero of 260 autologous transplant recipients . symptoms developed 1 to 62 months ( median 12 months ) after transplantation . in the 28 patients a total of 91 joints were affected ( mean 3.3 per patient , range one to eight joints ) . the hip joint was most often involved ( 64 % of patients ) , followed by knee ( 61 % ) , ankle ( 29 % ) , shoulder ( 21 % ) , and elbow ( 7 % ) . initial standard radiographs were negative in 13 patients , while in nine patients , technetium-99 scans and/or magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated changes of osteonecrosis before changes on routine radiographs . almost all patients had received steroid prophylaxis and therapy for graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) . we observed a significant correlation between the total cumulative dose of steroids and number of joints involved ( p less than 0.01 ) . a multivariate analysis ( allogeneic transplant patients only ) identified acute or chronic gvhd requiring steroid therapy ( p = 0.003 ) , and increasing age ( p = 0.002 ) as significant and independent risk factors . fourteen patients required surgery , including joint replacement in 11 patients . in six of six patients , hip core decompression failed to halt disease progression , and total hip arthroplasty was subsequently required . conclusion : avascular necrosis of bone is a frequent late complication of bone marrow transplantation , causing significant morbidity and often requiring surgery ; diagnosis using conventional imaging techniques may be difficult and treatment remains inadequate . 
lack of correlation of clinical breast examination with high-risk histopathology . purpose : routine breast examination frequently finds differences in palpable density and palpable nodularity , but it is not known if these differences correlate with the presence of high-risk histopathology . patients and methods : to test for a relationship between clinical breast examination and histopathology , we devised separate , 4-point scales of clinical density and nodularity and validated these scales by repeat examinations 4 or more months apart in 199 separate breasts ( the scale was the same or within 1 point on repeat examination 87 % of the time for density and 90 % for nodularity ) . we then used these two clinical scales to compare density and nodularity to histopathology of breast tissue at the margins of segmental resections in 60 women undergoing breast-conserving treatment of primary breast cancer . in cases such as these , a large sample of " normal " tissue is intentionally removed when the wide excision is done to obtain negative margins . histopathology at the margins was graded according to the consensus panel of the american college of pathology ; as might be expected in women with previous cancer , some higher-risk histopathology was found in 37 % of cases . a relationship was sought using spearman 's rank correlation coefficient . results : neither clinical breast density ( rho = 0.16 ) nor clinical breast nodularity ( rho = 0.01 ) related to the presence of high-risk histopathology in the underlying tissue . interestingly , breast nodularity increased with age ( rho = 0.28 ) , and clinical density and nodularity were inversely related ( rho = -0.28 ) . conclusion : we conclude that neither clinical breast density nor nodularity correlates with histopathology and that it is unlikely that a larger study would find a clinically useful correlation . therefore , a clinical examination should not be used to decide that high-risk histopathology is likely to be present in an individual woman 's breast . 
major depression , panic disorder , and mitral valve prolapse in patients who complain of chest pain . purpose : patients with chest pain but without angiographic evidence of significant atherosclerotic coronary artery disease ( cad ) are often found to have other medical or psychiatric disorders , including mitral valve prolapse , panic disorder ( pd ) , and major depressive disorder ( mdd ) . the purpose of this study was to determine the degree of comorbidity between mdd/pd and mitral valve prolapse in a group of patients with non-cad chest pain . patients and methods : patients referred for cardiac catheterization and coronary angiography for suspected cad who were 70 years of age or younger and without other significant medical illnesses or cardiac complications were eligible for study . the first 100 patients who agreed to a psychiatric diagnostic interview were recruited . results : forty-eight of the 100 patients were found to be without significant cad . forty-two percent of these patients , compared to 19 % of the patients with significant cad , were found to have either mdd , pd , or both . eighty percent of the patients without cad who had mitral valve prolapse also had either mdd or pd ( p less than 0.006 ) . conclusions : the finding that mitral valve prolapse was significantly associated with mdd/pd has implications for the diagnosis and treatment of patients with non-cad chest pain , and may explain why these patients complain of symptoms . 
maternal feeding behavior and child acceptance of food during diarrhea , convalescence , and health in the central sierra of peru . feeding patterns by mothers and child acceptance of food were measured in a peruvian village to determine changes on days when children had diarrhea as compared to days of convalescence and health . morbidity surveillance identified 40 children , aged 4-36 months , with diarrhea . children were followed using twelve-hour in-home structured observations during two to four days each of diarrhea , convalescence , and health . using scales of maternal encouragement to eat and child acceptance of food and cumulative logistic regression analyses , maternal encouragement to eat decreased significantly during convalescence compared to diarrheal days ( or : 0.54 , 90 % ci : 0.35 , 0.82 ) and health compared to diarrhea ( or : 0.65 , 90 % ci : 0.46 , 0.93 ) . in contrast , child acceptance of food increased during health compared to diarrhea ( or : 1.55 , 90 % ci : 1.02 , 2.35 ) . results illustrate the importance of carefully examining the behavioral aspects of nutritional intake . decreases in intake during diarrhea are due to anorexia and not withdrawal of food by mothers . in response to reductions in child appetite during illness , mothers are more likely to encourage children to eat , while they tend to become more passive feeders after the diarrhea has stopped . program efforts should focus on messages to feed children more actively especially after diarrhea episodes , when appetite levels increase . 
surgical correction of the snapping iliopsoas tendon . eighteen patients with 20 symptomatic hips underwent lengthening of the iliopsoas tendon for persistent painful snapping of this " internal " variety of snapping hip . we referred to the pathologic , painful snapping of the iliopsoas in the deep anterior groin as the " internal " snapping hip . this is in contrast to the more common and better-known " external " snapping that involves the greater trochanter and its overlying soft tissues . the results of our iliopsoas lengthening procedure are presented here . lengthening of the iliopsoas tendon was accomplished by step cutting of the tendinous portion of the iliopsoas . the pathoanatomy of this poorly understood symptom complex was described in 1984 paper from this institution and is reviewed here . iliopsoas bursography demonstrated a sudden jerking movement of the iliopsoas tendon between the anterior inferior iliac spine and iliopectineal eminence , synchronous with the patient 's pain and often accompanied by an audible snap . the average preoperative duration of symptoms was 2.9 years , and the average length of postoperative followup was 25 months . all patients , except one , had a marked reduction in the frequency of snapping after tendon lengthening , and 14 of 20 hips had no snapping postoperatively . of the six patients who had recurrence of snapping , all but one stated that this occurred much less frequently and was much less painful compared to the preoperative state . two hips required reoperation . postoperatively , only three patients complained of subjective weakness , and most patients were unlimited in physical activity with return to activities such as competitive football , pole vaulting , and long-distance running . 
secondary damage to the knee after isolated injury of the anterior cruciate ligament . between 1978 and 1984 , we examined and performed arthroscopy on 1000 consecutive patients . ninety-eight of the 1000 had isolated acl damage . these cases do not include patients with initial acl injuries combined with other intraarticular damage . diagnosis was by physical and arthroscopic examination . examination took place an average 13.6 months after injury . of the 98 isolated acl injuries , 56 were complete ruptures and 42 were partial ruptures . in most cases of partial rupture , the clinical diagnosis was wrong . " meniscal damage " was the usual diagnosis in these cases ; the true diagnosis was made only by arthroscopic examination . thirty-four of the 98 patients with isolated acl injuries ( 30 men and 4 women ) developed further intraarticular damage . of these 34 , 20 had complete acl rupture and 14 had partial acl rupture . treatment after primary injury included physiotherapy in all patients and bracing in those whose knee was unstable during daily activities . reconstructive surgical procedures were not performed in those patients . the time lapse from the primary to the secondary injury varied from 1 month to 20 years , with an average of 28 months . the secondary damage was caused by a secondary injury that was mild ( 22 cases ) or developed insidiously ( 12 cases ) . five types of secondary damage were observed : partial acl tears that became complete -- 11 cases ; meniscal tear -- 8 cases ; loosening and subluxation of the anterior horn of the medial meniscus -- 14 cases ; and fracture or damage to the articular condylar cartilage , with or without bone involvement -- 11 cases . it should be emphasized that the secondary damages were at times combined . 
stress fractures of the femoral neck in athletes . the consequence of a delay in diagnosis . twenty-three patients with stress fractures of the femoral neck were followed up at an average of 6.5 years after the injury . there were 16 recreational athletes and seven elite athletes . most injuries ( n = 15 ) occurred during running . the diagnosis was confirmed within 3 to 104 weeks ( mean , 14 weeks ) after the initial onset of symptoms . sixteen of the patients were treated with internal fixation , the remaining seven were treated conservatively . seven patients ( 30 % ) developed complications requiring major surgery . five of these patients had type 3 fractures ( displaced ) and four had been treated with internal fixation initially . the remaining two patients had type 1 fractures ( endosteal or periosteal callus without an overt fracture line ) ; one was treated operatively and the other conservatively . three patients developed avascular necrosis and two were treated by hip replacement . the third patient was treated with arthrodesis . three refractures and one pseudarthrosis were treated by osteotomy . at followup , all elite athletes stated that they had to end their career as a result of the injury . results were rated by the ability of the athlete to return to sports . there were 9 bad or fair results , 13 good , and 1 excellent result . no difference in activity level or subjective rating was observed between the surgically and conservatively treated group either preinjury or postinjury . the most important factor influencing the complication rate seems to be the type of fracture . the high incidence of displaced fractures ( type 3 ) could speculatively be caused by undiagnosed tension side stress fractures . if so , the delay in correct diagnosis may be disastrous . however , we could only objectively observe this in one of our cases . 
the " all-autogenous " tissue policy for infrainguinal reconstruction questioned . in 33 % of patients referred for infrainguinal reconstruction for limb-threatening ischemia ( mean preoperative ankle-arm index [ aai ] = 0.26 ) , no suitable autogenous reconstruction was possible . in 40 % of cases , intraoperative pre-bypass contrast arteriography was necessary to identify a graftable tibial or pedal artery . the results of polytetrafluoroethylene ( ptfe ) and autogenous bypasses were compared after 1 to 3 years . after 1 year , patency was 85 % and 67 % for autogenous and ptfe bypasses , respectively . limb salvage was 90 % for autogenous bypass and 70 % for ptfe bypass . cumulative patency rates at 3 years were 80 % for autogenous and 57 % for ptfe grafts . graft surveillance with duplex scanning and aai was valuable in detecting failing grafts . for both types of reconstruction , secondary procedures were required to maintain patency . we attribute the excellent results with ptfe in part to long-term aspirin and warfarin therapy . in cases of combined superficial femoral and severe infra-popliteal occlusive disease , ptfe bypass is an excellent alternative when no autogenous conduit is available . 
acute appendicitis in the pregnant patient . acute appendicitis is the most common surgical problem in pregnancy requiring emergent intervention . to establish a contemporary patient profile and formulate an effective management strategy , a retrospective review was conducted of 84 pregnant patients who underwent laparotomy with a preoperative diagnosis of acute appendicitis . gestational stage at presentation included the first trimester in 27 patients ( 32 % ) , the second trimester in 37 patients ( 44 % ) , the third trimester in 13 patients ( 16 % ) , and the puerperium in 7 patients ( 8 % ) . fifty-four patients ( 64 % ) had pathologically proven acute appendicitis ; the incidence did not vary by trimester . other intra-abdominal conditions were detected in 15 patients ( 18 % ) . there were no significant differences between patients with positive and negative laparotomies ( or among trimesters ) regarding frequency of presenting symptoms and signs or laboratory results . operation occurred within 24 hours of symptom onset in 19 of 54 ( 35 % ) instances of proven acute appendicitis . perforation occurred in 23 of 54 patients ( 43 % ) , all of whom had symptoms exceeding 24 hours ( p less than 0.0005 ) . five instances of perinatal death and one case of extreme perinatal morbidity were associated with negative laparotomies ; only one of these was attributed to operation itself . no adverse long-term maternal morbidity or mortality occurred . wound infection developed in seven cases of acute appendicitis ( six perforated ) and two negative explorations . we conclude that ( 1 ) gestational physiologic changes obscure the accurate diagnosis of acute appendicitis ; ( 2 ) the natural history of acute appendicitis is not affected by trimester of presentation ; and ( 3 ) adverse sequelae of acute appendicitis are obviated by prompt operative exploration and prevention of appendiceal perforation . 
balloon catheter tamponade in cardiovascular wounds . from 1980 to 1990 , operative balloon catheter tamponade was used in 12 patients with cardiac or vascular injuries from penetrating wounds . in nine patients , a balloon catheter was passed into a bleeding site through a bullet track or proximal artery and inflated with saline or radiologic dye . in two of these patients , the proximal balloon catheter was folded on itself , tied in that position , and left in the patient permanently . in the other seven patients in this group , the balloon catheter was attached to a three-way stopcock and left temporarily inflated postoperatively . these patients were then observed in the intensive care unit for 3 to 4 days , at which time the balloon was withdrawn . eight of nine patients survived without recurrent hemorrhage after removal of the balloon catheter , while one patient with a fogarty balloon placed in the carotid siphon died of a cerebral infarction . balloon catheter tamponade was also used on a temporary basis in one patient with a posterior cardiac wound and in one patient with an anterior stab wound of the inferior vena cava at the renal veins , whereas in two patients with high cervical arteriovenous fistulas , one had permanent placement of the balloon catheter while the other had temporary placement . one of the latter patients also had acute hemorrhage . although all four patients survived , one of the patients with a fistula developed a recurrence and another required two separate operative procedures for correct placement of the balloon to cure the fistula . 
choledochotomy for calculous disease in the elderly . to determine the risk of operations on the biliary tract in the elderly , we retrospectively examined 56 patients 80 years of age or older undergoing choledochotomy for calculous disease and compared their outcomes with those of a contemporary group of 257 patients undergoing similar surgery . thirty of 56 elderly patients ( 54 % ) required urgent surgery for acute cholangitis , acute cholecystitis , or obstructive jaundice ( serum bilirubin greater than 5 mg/dl ) , compared with 97 of 257 younger patients ( 38 % ) ( p = 0.029 ) . mortality in elderly patients was significantly higher ( 5 of 56 ) than in younger ( 6 of 257 ) patients ( p = 0.015 ) . in three of the five patients who died , urgent surgery was performed for obstructive jaundice , reflecting the higher mortality experienced by jaundiced patients in the entire series ( 9.4 % ) . biliary cultures grew organisms in 25 of 27 elderly patients ( 93 % ) . this is in contrast to findings of bactibilia in 62 of 118 patients ( 53 % ) under the age of 80 ( p = 0.001 ) . similarly , preoperative blood cultures were positive more often in elderly ( 63 % ) than in younger patients ( 26 % ) ( p = 0.007 ) . mean postoperative hospital recovery was longer in the elderly group ( 16.2 + / - 8.5 days ) than in the younger group ( 12.2 + / - 9.3 days ) ( p = 0.002 ) . in conclusion , elderly patients , particularly those with obstructive jaundice , are at higher risk for complicated biliary tract disease necessitating choledochotomy . they appear to be more susceptible to bactibilia and bacteremia , and require longer hospital recovery than younger patients . 
increased septic complications with three-drug sequential immunosuppression for cadaver renal transplants . in 152 renal transplant recipients , the results of immunosuppression with three-drug sequential ( minnesota antilymphocyte globulin , prednisone , azathioprine , and cyclosporine ) immunosuppression ( n = 107 ) were compared with those of a two-drug sequential protocol ( minnesota antilymphocyte globulin , prednisone , and cyclosporine ) that excluded azathioprine ( n = 45 ) . the study groups were comparable by age , sex , etiology of renal failure , incidence of diabetes , and degree of hla matching . patient survival at 1 year was not significantly different in the two groups ( two drug , 93 % versus three drug , 86 % ; p = 0.19 ) . one-year graft survival was superior in the two-drug group ( two drug , 93 % versus three drug , 75 % ; p = 0.02 ) . analysis of primary transplants only ( n = 116 ) yielded the same results . during the first year , the serum creatinine level remained stable in both groups . as expected , the three-drug therapy group had significantly more bacterial and viral infections . for low-risk primary cadaveric renal transplants , two-drug sequential immunosuppression is superior . 
effect of electrocautery on wound healing in midline laparotomy incisions . the effect of electrocautery on midline fascial wound healing was studied in 108 sprague-dawley rats . midline wound tensile strength was significantly reduced in fascia incised with the coagulation current compared with the cutting current or scalpel . in addition , tissue necrosis and inflammation as well as adhesion formation between the incision and abdominal viscera were more extensive in animals with incisions made using coagulation current . the results of the study indicate that the use of electrocautery coagulation current is associated with increased tissue damage and a significant reduction in the tensile strength of healing wounds . the contribution of electrocautery to wound complications in patients needs further evaluation . 
glucagonoma syndrome is an underdiagnosed clinical entity . glucagonomas , considered among the rarest of the islet cell neoplasms , produce a well-defined clinical syndrome characterized by necrolytic migratory erythema , diabetes mellitus , glossitis , anemia , and weight loss . this report describes seven patients with glucagonoma treated at our institution . all seven had the characteristic dermatologic manifestations , present from 1 to 6 years prior to diagnosis . five patients had extensive disease at the time of initial operation , three of whom underwent aggressive cytoreductive surgery , whereas the other two had biopsy only . the remaining two patients presented with a single nodule each , underwent distal pancreatectomy and splenectomy , and remain free of disease 2 and 6 years postoperatively . earlier recognition of the distinctive physical findings peculiar to this syndrome should increase survival . aggressive cytoreductive surgery results in prolonged remission . 
continent ileocolonic urinary reservoirs for filling and lining the post-exenteration pelvis . pelvic exenteration has a high complication rate due , in large part , to the extensive raw surfaces and dead space it creates . numerous techniques have been used to control this space and line these surfaces , but none , to date , has proven to be a reliable solution . we investigated the use of continent ileocolonic urinary reservoirs as a new " flap " to fill and line the pelvis in 17 patients , and found that our historical complication rate of 44 % for pelvic exenteration was reduced to 18 % . these reservoirs appear to be an improved method of managing the post-exenteration pelvis . 
hypoxic events in the surgical intensive care unit . an oxygen-monitoring protocol was established in the surgical intensive care unit ( sicu ) at the denver general hospital in july 1988 . a 3-month surveillance audit ending march 1989 prospectively documented 100 consecutive hypoxic events in 51 of 241 ( 21 % ) sicu patients . these episodes occurred during mechanical ventilation in 46 patients , during spontaneous ventilation in 15 patients with artificial airways , and the remaining 39 occurred in nonintubated patients . hypoxemia was recognized by pulse oximetry in 59 , arterial blood gas analysis in 24 , mixed venous oximetry in 15 , and transcutaneous oxygen monitoring in 2 . these events were due to problems with the ventilator or airway in 42 , recent interventions in 21 , new pulmonary process in 19 , progression of underlying disease in 11 , and unknown causes in 7 . two thirds resulted from mechanical problems amenable to simple intervention ; there were two adverse outcomes . in conclusion , acute hypoxia is a frequent potentially morbid sicu event . advances in continuous oxygen monitoring permit early identification and thereby may limit adverse outcomes , but should not prompt an expensive diagnostic work-up . 
flumazenil in ketamine and midazolam anaesthesia . a double-blind , parallel group study using flumazenil and placebo was carried out to determine whether patients who received flumazenil would awake more quickly and whether this drug would reverse the protection conferred by midazolam on the psychic sequelae of ketamine . fifty female patients were studied . the results showed that there was a significant reduction in awakening time ( p = 0.02 ) and a very significant increase ( p = 0.001 ) in the incidence of dreams in the flumazenil group . 
life-threatening complications during anaesthesia in a patient with a ventriculo-atrial shunt and pulmonary hypertension [ published erratum appears in anaesthesia 1991 mar ; 46 ( 3 ) :241 ] a 6-year-old patient with hydrocephalus who underwent revision of a ventriculo-atrial shunt is described . anaesthesia was complicated by the occurrence of systemic hypertension and arterial hypoxaemia . the patient was subsequently found to have pulmonary hypertension secondary to recurrent pulmonary thromboembolism . the pathophysiological mechanisms for the patient 's deterioration are discussed and the anaesthetic management of children with pulmonary hypertension is outlined . it is concluded that patients with a ventriculo-atrial shunt who present for surgery should be screened carefully for the presence of pulmonary hypertension . 
caesarean section in a patient with haemoglobin sc disease and a phaeochromocytoma . the anaesthetic management of a patient with haemoglobin sc disease for lower segment caesarean section and excision of a phaeochromocytoma is described . the patient was given a general anaesthetic for the surgical procedure after exchange transfusion had achieved an haemoglobin a concentration of greater than 50 % . a live infant was delivered and a suprarenal phaeochromocytoma was excised during a 6.5 hour procedure . the patient 's postoperative recovery was uneventful . 
an evaluation of the level 1 blood warmer series the level 1 blood warmer series comprises three infusion sets and two blood warmers of different power outputs . all systems were found to be extremely efficient , with the larger 500 series capable of warming the equivalent of 80 units of blood an hour almost to body temperature . 
embolism during caesarean section . we investigated the occurrence of gas embolism during caesarean section using a doppler ultrasound probe and found that it occurs between uterine incision and delivery . embolism is less common during general anaesthesia than has been reported during regional anaesthesia . both ruptured membranes and a protracted uterine incision to delivery interval predispose to embolism . 
postoperative sore throat : topical hydrocortisone forty patients undergoing tracheal intubation and controlled ventilation of the lungs for elective surgical procedures were studied . they were allocated randomly into one of two groups . the tracheal tubes used for group a patients were lubricated before insertion with water-soluble 1 % hydrocortisone cream . those for group b patients were lubricated with ky jelly . the incidence of postoperative sore throat was found to be significantly greater in group a. topical 1 % hydrocortisone cream is therefore ineffective in the prevention of postoperative sore throat . 
isolated lung transplantation for pulmonary fibrosis . the peri-operative anaesthetic management of 11 patients with pulmonary fibrosis undergoing single-lung transplantation is presented . intra-operative problems , the early postoperative phase of recovery and intensive care , and other incidents in which general anaesthesia was required for the management of complications , are featured . results , both short - and long-term , are mentioned . major intra-operative events that cause concern appear to be related to the severity of the presenting illness and the development of respiratory failure . others have reported the development of intra-operative cardiac failure . all cases were successfully managed operatively using conventional one-lung anaesthesia , although resort to partial cardiopulmonary bypass may have been indicated in some . the indications and attitudes to utilising cardiopulmonary bypass in the evolution of techniques for facilitating single-lung transplantation are reviewed . 
was cepod right ? this retrospective study found that the long-term ( greater than 6 months ) postoperative survival in asa 4e and 5e patients was 41 % and 21 % respectively , in 1986 . this supports the confidential enquiry into peri-operative deaths ' recommendation that life-saving surgery should not be withheld from patients who present in so serious a condition that they are unlikely to survive surgery . 
decreased ventilation and hypoxic ventilatory responsiveness are not reversed by naloxone in lhasa residents with chronic mountain sickness . persons with chronic mountain sickness ( cms ) hypoventilate and are more hypoxemic than normal individuals , but the cause of the hypoventilation is unclear . studies of 14 patients with cms and 11 healthy age-matched control subjects residing in lhasa , tibet , china ( 3,658 m ) were conducted to test the hypothesis that hypoventilation , blunted hypoxic ventilatory responsiveness ( hvr ) , and hypoxic ventilatory depression of cms were due to increased endogenous opioid production . patients with cms compared with control subjects exhibited hypoventilation ( end-tidal carbon dioxide pressure [ petco2 ] = 36.6 + / - 1.0 versus 31.5 + / - 0.5 mm hg , p less than 0.05 ) , lower tidal volume ( vt = 0.54 + / - 0.02 versus 0.61 + / - 0.02 ml btps , p less than 0.05 ) , blunted hvr ( shape parameter a = 17 + / - 8 versus 114 + / - 22 mm hg/l btps/min , p less than 0.05 ) , and a depressant effect of ambient hypoxia on ventilation ( delta petco2 with acute hyperoxia = -3.5 + / - 0.5 versus -1.0 + / - 0.6 mm hg , p less than 0.05 ) . reduced forced expiratory volume in 1 s to vital capacity ratios ( fev1/vc ) and a higher proportion of cigarette smokers in the group of patients with cms compared with control subjects suggested that at least some patients with cms had mild airway obstructive lung disease . naloxone infusion ( 0.14 mg/kg ) to six patients with cms did not change resting vt , petco2 , hvr , or sao2 . 
genetics of asthma and hay fever in australian twins . the occurrence of self-reported asthma/wheezing and hay fever among 3,808 pairs of twins from the australian national health and medical research council twin registry was examined for evidence of genetic transmission by path analytic methods . the cumulative prevalence of asthma or wheezing was 13.2 % and of hay fever , 32 % . there were significant correlations in liability to reported disease among twins , and these were higher in monozygotic twins ( mz ) ( r = 0.65 ) than in dizygotic twins ( dz ) ( r = 0.25 ) , and in male mz twins ( r = 0.75 ) compared with female mz twins ( r = 0.60 ) . analysis under the assumptions of the classic twin model suggested that there were genetic factors common to asthma and hay fever , with a correlation in genetic liability to the traits of 0.52 for men and 0.65 for women . these genes acted substantially in a nonadditive fashion in men but not in women . as the genetic correlation was significantly less than unity , this implied additional genetic factors influencing either or both diseases individually . the estimated heritability of these diseases was 60 to 70 % in this population . environmental causes of both diseases also were correlated ( r = 0.53 for men and 0.33 for women ) . cigarette smoking was only weakly associated with wheezing . 
bilateral intrapulmonary hematomas . a 67-yr-old man , known to have chronic obstructive lung disease , developed bilateral localized pulmonary densities on chest radiographs after cardiopulmonary resuscitation . an autopsy disclosed bilateral intrapulmonary hematomas without communication with bronchi , pulmonary arteries , or pleural cavities . we suggest blunt pulmonary injury is the most probable cause of the hematomas and discuss its pathogenic mechanism . intrapulmonary hematomas should be considered in the differential diagnosis of pulmonary densities developing after a vigorous resuscitation . 
gene amplification in human lung cancer . the myc family genes and other proto-oncogenes and growth factor genes . the development of human lung cancer may require multiple genetic deletions affecting a number of chromosomes , e.g. , 1 , 3 , 11 , 13 , and 17 . these genetic aberrations may induce the activation of proto-oncogenes ( c-jun , ras , c-raf1 ) and the loss of tumor suppressor genes ( p53 ) . some of the activated proto-oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes are more selectively expressed or absent in small-cell lung cancer ( l-myc , c-myb , c-scr , rb gene ) or non-small-cell lung cancer ( c-erbb-2 , c-sis , c-fes ) . these genes may thus be of importance for selection of differentiation pathway . the c-myc oncogene is frequently amplified in small-cell lung cancer cell lines in a much higher frequency than in vivo . this indicates that c-myc seems to be related to tumor progression and a relatively late event in the lung cancer development . the uncontrolled production of multiple growth factors has been identified in human lung cancer cell lines . these factors can promote and inhibit the proliferation via paracrine and autocrine loops via specific receptors . the products from some of the activated proto-oncogenes ( c-sis , c-erbb-2 ) are sequences homologous to a certain growth factor ( pdgf ) and a receptor ( egf ) identified in lung cancer . the production and action of these growth factors may be of major importance for further activation of proto-oncogenes via intracellular signal transduction and specific oncogenic activation leading to further tumor progression . 
progression through the cell cycle : an overview . tissues in adults can be maintained at constant mass or they can increase or decrease in size because of imbalances of synthetic and degradative processes acting at the cellular and molecular levels . some size changes are caused by physiologic conditions to which the tissue must adjust . alternatively , the balance may be distorted in favor of net tissue increase in pathologic situations such as cancer . strict regulatory mechanisms are required to keep proliferation responsive to the organism 's needs ; these mechanisms may be defective in disease . net tissue proliferation requires repeated rounds of cell duplication in excess of that necessary to counterbalance cell death . duplication of a cell requires a net doubling of its every molecule and structure . the myriad of molecular events required for cell proliferation such as dna duplication and its partitioning at mitosis are tightly regulated in normal cells . one may conceive of two classes of molecules : those required for " housekeeping , " which constitute the cell 's structural and functional machinery , and those such as growth factors , their receptors , and second messengers involved in signal transduction responsible for regulating the activities of the housekeeping molecules . these molecular events and the cascade of processes that control them can be organized within the sequence of the cell cycle . in this brief overview , we illustrate these issues with a few examples taken from very recent discoveries of novel proteins that appear to have major regulatory roles . most of these results have been obtained with mammalian fibroblasts , but some have originated with discoveries made using two very different yeasts . 
positive and negative regulation of proliferation and differentiation in tracheobronchial epithelial cells . the lung ( in particular the bronchial epithelium ) is a major site for tumor formation in humans . environmental factors in conjunction with genetic factors are important determinants in this disease . the acquisition of defects in the control of proliferation and differentiation appears to constitute crucial steps in the transition of a normal to a neoplastic cell . several factors have been identified that control positively or negatively the proliferation and differentiation of tracheobronchial epithelial cells . these factors include egf/tgf alpha , tgf beta , insulin/igfi , kgf , certain cytokines , retinoids , and activators of protein kinase c. studies with neoplastic cells have identified several protooncogenes and tumor suppressor genes whose gene products are involved in the regulation of cell growth of normal tracheobronchial epithelial cells , and when mutated , lost , or activated , bring about a neoplastic phenotype . future studies on the precise function of these genes will help to elucidate the mechanisms by which proliferation and differentiation in normal tracheobronchial epithelial cells are regulated and help to understand the molecular changes involved in diseases such as cancer . 
cell-to-cell communication and the control of growth . growth of transformed cells is inhibited by cell-to-cell communication with normal cells . this communication is regulated by certain oncogenes that alone or in cooperation can block the communication . 
brain microemboli during cardiac surgery or aortography we have observed many focal dilatations or very small aneurysms in terminal arterioles and capillaries of 4 of 5 patients and 6 dogs who had recently undergone cardiopulmonary bypass . a smaller number of sausagelike dilatations distended medium-sized arterioles . two other patients had a small number of the same microvascular changes following proximal aortography . thirty-four patients and 6 dogs not undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass had none . ( a 35th patient who had not undergone cardiopulmonary bypass or aortography showed a small number of dilatations ; mediastinal air was a suggested source . ) some of the dilatations exhibited various forms of birefringence . because most of the dilatations appear empty , we speculate that they are the sites of gas bubbles or fat emboli that have been removed by the solvents used in processing . these microvascular events , occurring only in conjunction with major arterial interventions , may be the anatomical correlate of the neurological deficits or moderate to severe intellectual dysfunction seen in at least 24 % of patients after cardiac surgical procedures assisted by cardiopulmonary bypass . 
peripheral neuropathy associated with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . in 1989 , the centers for disease control recognized the existence of an epidemic illness characterized by myalgia and eosinophilia in individuals taking preparations containing l-tryptophan . we evaluated 3 patients with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome who presented with subacute progressive neuropathies . the neuropathies were predominantly motor and maximal in the lower extremities . two patients were confined to a wheelchair and one was ventilator-dependent and bedridden . sensory loss predominantly involved small fiber modalities . electrophysiological studies showed multifocal marked conduction slowing and conduction block indicating segmental demyelination , with associated axonal degeneration that was accentuated distally . examination of sural nerve biopsy specimens demonstrated axonal degeneration in all 3 patients and perivascular infiltrates in 2 . levels of quinolinic acid , a neurotoxic metabolite of l-tryptophan , were elevated in the cerebrospinal fluid in the 2 patients in whom it was measured . the cause of the neuropathy is unknown but may include immune mechanisms or toxicity of eosinophils , l-tryptophan , its metabolic products , or contaminants within l-tryptophan preparations . 
adult phosphorylase b kinase deficiency . phosphorylase b kinase deficiency affecting muscle has been observed infrequently in children with weakness and hepatomegaly , and in 2 adults with cramps on exertion . we observed 2 additional adults with phosphorylase b kinase deficiency : patient 1 , aged 58 , had progressive , predominantly distal weakness since age 46 but no cramps on exertion ; patient 2 , aged 26 , had cramps on exertion since age 6 but no weakness . lactate production on ischemic exercise was impaired only in patient 1 . the serum creatine kinase level was elevated in both . muscle specimens showed focal glycogen excess in both , and a necrotizing myopathy and mild denervation atrophy in patient 1 . muscle phosphorylase b kinase activity was 0.5 % and 8.9 % of the lowest control value in patients 1 and 2 , respectively ; erythrocyte phosphorylase b kinase activity was normal in both ; liver phosphorylase b kinase activity , measured in patient 1 , was also normal . other glycolytic enzymes in muscle were preserved in both . 
aggravation of myasthenia gravis by erythromycin . erythromycin is not currently recognized as causing clinical aggravation of myasthenia gravis . we report the case of a patient who experienced exacerbations of myasthenia gravis subsequent to each of several doses of intravenous erythromycin . we suggest that erythromycin can cause clinical worsening in patients with disease of the neuromuscular junction . 
familial creutzfeldt-jakob disease without periodic eeg activity . four members of a kindred with creutzfeldt-jakob disease are reported , in whom myoclonus did not develop and in whom serial electroencephalograms performed late in their illness failed to show periodic sharp wave complexes . otherwise , the patients ' disease duration , clinical features , and neuropathological findings were similar to those described in sporadic cases of creutzfeldt-jakob disease . our findings and those reported by others suggest that periodic electroencephalographic activity may be rare in familial forms of creutzfeldt-jakob disease , as it is in other slow transmissible encephalopathies . 
overestimation of myocardial infarct size by histologic measurement in a model of occlusion followed by reperfusion . we studied 32 transverse left ventricular slices of myocardium from 16 pigs after 45 to 100 minutes of coronary artery occlusion followed by 180 minutes of reperfusion . infarct area for each slice was determined as follows : ( 1 ) grossly , by triphenyl tetrazolium chloride staining of each slice , and ( 2 ) microscopically , by complete histologic sectioning of the triphenyl tetrazolium chloride-stained surface of each slice . planimetry of necrotic and nonnecrotic areas was performed from tracings and photographs of triphenyl tetrazolium chloride-stained slices and from actual histologic sections . when triphenyl tetrazolium chloride and histologic measurements were compared , necrotic tissue area had decreased 11.4 % + / - 15.0 % ( 2.59 + / - 1.04 vs 2.09 + / - 0.86 cm2 ) . nonnecrotic tissue area decreased 20.6 % + / - 24.0 % ( 8.31 + / - 3.79 vs 5.16 + / - 2.73 cm2 ) . in this model of ischemia followed by reperfusion , with fixation and processing , viable tissue shrank almost twice as much as necrotic tissue . this differential shrinkage introduces an error resulting in overestimation of infarct size by histologic quantitation . 
the distribution of enkephalins in human carotid bodies showing cellular proliferation and chronic glomitis . human carotid bodies obtained at necropsy that showed prominence of either the sustentacular cell or the dark variant of chief cell or chronic carotid glomitis were studied by an immunogold labeling technique . the peptides methionine and leucine enkephalin had a similar distribution to that found in the normal human carotid body . they were localized prominently and predominantly in the dark and progenitor variants of chief ( type i ) cells . the sustentacular ( type ii ) cells showed no immunoreactivity for the enkephalins . cell counts on immunolabeled chief cells in cases of sustentacular cell hyperplasia and chronic carotid glomitis were found to be at the lower end of the normal range , whereas those in dark cell prominence occurred nearer the upper limit . 
intestinal metaplasia is age related in barrett 's esophagus . the correlation among cellular characteristics of barrett 's esophagus , patient age , and malignant neoplasm is not well documented . this study , which describes a population of 66 patients with barrett 's esophagus spanning 1 to 80 years of age , analyzes the cellular constituents of their lesional tissues by endoscopic biopsy and histochemical and morphometric studies . goblet cell metaplasia , identified in 50 % ( n = 14 ) of pediatric patients , increased significantly to involve 84 % ( n = 32 ) of biopsy specimens from adult patients with barrett 's esophagus . this increase was exponential by linear regression analysis ( r2 = .64 ) between the ages of 5 and 29 years . pediatric patients usually had 25 or less goblet cells per square millimeter of barrett mucosa with no identifiable epithelial dysplasia or cancer ; nissen fundoplication lessened esophageal inflammation , but the barrett mucosa persisted . goblet cell metaplasia maintained a plateau ( mean of 57 cells per square millimeter of barrett mucosa ) between the ages of 41 and 80 years . dysplasia , in situ carcinoma , or invasive carcinoma was found in patients with barrett 's esophagus who were aged 41 years or older . this study demonstrates persistence of barrett mucosa , increased incidence of goblet cell metaplasia , and predictable changes in goblet cell number with advancing patient age . the relationship between barrett mucosa and malignant neoplasm remains uncertain , but the goblet cell may serve as a marker of disease chronicity in which setting neoplasia evolves . 
image cytophotometric dna analysis of atypical hyperplasias and intraductal carcinomas of the breast . with the use of image analysis , dna content was quantified on paraffin-embedded tissue sections of 25 atypical hyperplasias and 35 intraductal carcinomas of the breast by comparison of integrated gray levels of feulgen-stained control and ductal cell nuclei . the mean full-peak ( g0/g1 ) control cell dna histogram coefficient of variation was 5.5 % . dna aneuploidy was more common in intraductal carcinomas compared with atypical hyperplasias ( 71 % of intraductal carcinomas vs 36 % of atypical hyperplasias ) and correlated with a lack of cytologic ( nuclear ) and architectural differentiation ( 63 % moderate vs 93 % poor and 38 % cribriform vs 82 % solid ) . in addition , multiple dna stemlines were observed in 40 % of intraductal carcinomas . we conclude that ( 1 ) some atypical hyperplasias demonstrate abnormal dna content consistent with neoplastic transformation , ( 2 ) aggressive forms of intraductal carcinoma are more frequently associated with dna content abnormalities , and ( 3 ) frequent dna stemline heterogeneity in intraductal carcinoma supports the hypothesis that multiple genetic events occur in the development of mammary intraepithelial neoplasia . 
pulmonary malakoplakia in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . differential diagnostic considerations . malakoplakia is an unusual inflammatory condition characterized histopathologically by accumulations of benign macrophages , or von hansemann 's cells , that are associated with diagnostic intracellular and extracellular calcospherites , termed michaelis-gutmann bodies . currently believed to represent an acquired defect of macrophage digestion , malakoplakia most commonly occurs in the urinary tract and is associated with a variety of infectious agents , notably gram-negative bacilli . we describe a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome who presented with a cavitating lingular mass . a transbronchial biopsy specimen revealed pulmonary malakoplakia , the seventh reported case of this condition and the second reported occurrence of pulmonary malakoplakia in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . microbiological cultures were positive for rhodococcus equi . the significance of this finding , and the differential diagnosis of intra-alveolar histiocytic proliferations in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , is discussed . 
autologous transplantation of adrenal medulla in parkinson 's disease . 18-month results . eighteen of 19 patients who underwent autologous adrenal medullary transplantation to the right caudate nucleus have been followed up for 18 months . during the course of this study , a statistically significant improvement was noted in percent " on " time , percent " on " time without dyskinesia , activity of daily living ( adl ) scores during the " on " stages , and adl , motor , and schwab-england scores during the " off " stages . benefits tended to be maximal at 6 months and to gradually lessen thereafter , although statistically significant improvement in comparison with baseline was still present at 18 months for adl , motor , and hoehn-yahr scores during the " off " stages . almost all parameters had deteriorated by 18 months compared with 12 months , including those remaining significantly improved in comparison with baseline . these patterns were similar for each of the three participating centers . complications were largely restricted to the perioperative period . 
clinical and positron emission tomographic studies in the ' extrapyramidal syndrome ' of dementia of the alzheimer type . extrapyramidal signs , particularly rigidity and tremor , have been reported in a proportion of patients with dementia of the alzheimer type . to test the hypothesis that these extrapyramidal signs are similar clinically and neurochemically to the extrapyramidal signs of parkinson 's disease , a group of 20 patients satisfying clinical criteria for probable alzheimer 's disease were studied and assessed clinically for the presence of rigidity , tremor , and bradykinesia . in those patients with extrapyramidal signs , qualitative differences were observed between the signs in these patients and in subjects with parkinson 's disease . fifteen of 20 patients underwent fluoro-18-dopa scans , which showed no significant difference in fluoro-18-dopa uptake into the caudate and putamen between normal subjects and the rigid and nonrigid patients with alzheimer 's disease , in contrast to the marked reduction in fluoro-18-dopa uptake into the putamen that is observed in parkinson 's disease . this provides clinical and in vivo neurochemical support for the hypothesis that extranigral factors may be involved in the pathogenesis of rigidity in alzheimer 's disease . 
acquired childhood aphasia . outcome 1 year after onset . the effects of the variables age at onset , cause , severity and bilaterality of lesion , and type of aphasia on course and outcome were investigated in a group of 28 aphasic children . analysis of spontaneous speech and tests of auditory verbal comprehension were used to determine the presence of aphasia . the severity of the cerebral lesion was assessed using a rating scale for computed tomographic scans . most of the children had not recovered completely 1 year after onset . recovery was significantly different according to etiological categories . complete recovery was seen in the majority of traumatic cases . 
in vivo nonthrombogenicity of heparin immobilized polymer surfaces . the authors developed two different methods to immobilize heparin on polymer surfaces . one method involves in situ heparin immobilization on a segmented polyurethane urea ( biomer ) surface via hydrophilic poly ( ethylene oxide ) ( peo , mn = 4,000 ) spacers . the other method uses peo/poly ( dimethylsiloxane ) ( pdms ) block co-polymer and heparin covalently linked in a block co-polymer system ( peo-pdms-hep ) . these surfaces have demonstrated high heparin bioactivity in vitro and excellent blood compatibility in in vitro-ex vivo experiments . this report evaluates the long-term in vivo blood compatibility of these heparin immobilized surfaces . vascular grafts ( 6 mm id , 7 cm in length ) were fabricated with biomer , and heparin was immobilized in situ with peo spacers ( b-peo4k ) and coated on their luminal surfaces with peo-pdms-hep . biomer and peo ( mn = 4,000 ) grafted biomer ( b-peo4k ) were used as controls . the grafts were implanted in the abdominal aorta of dogs and retrieved at 3 months or when graft occlusion was suspected . retrieved grafts were evaluated with scanning electron microscopy ( sem ) and transmission electron microscopy ( tem ) . tem measured the thickness of the adsorbed protein layer on the surface and the protein distribution ( albumin , fibrinogen , and igg ) visualized by an immunogold method . all heparin immobilized grafts were patent at 3 months , whereas biomer and b-peo4k grafts occluded within 1 month . sem pictures of heparin immobilized surfaces after 3 months demonstrated minimal platelet adhesion and activation without detectable fibrin formation . heparin immobilized surfaces showed a thin protein layer ( 300-600 a ) even after 3 months , with high concentrations of albumin and igg and less fibrinogen . 
monitoring platelet interactions with prosthetic graft implants in a canine model . this study shows that prosthetic arterial grafts stimulate platelets for as long as 1 year after implantation in a canine model . carotid-to-distal aorta dacron ( dupont , wilmington , de ) grafts ( 0.8 x 50.0 cm ) were tunneled subcutaneously over the right dorsal side , allowing for percutaneous arterial sampling . thromboxane b2 ( txb2 ) levels were evaluated at the proximal anastomosis ( w ) , 5.0 ( x ) , 25.0 ( y ) , and 50.0 ( z ) cm distal from w , and platelet counts and mean platelet volumes were monitored at sites w and z. txb2 levels increased after blood entered the graft and progressively increased until the blood exited at the distal anastomosis . platelet counts did not significantly change across the graft . over time , systemic platelet counts decreased to approximately 50 % of each dog 's pregraft baseline levels and remained depressed over a 1 year period . mean platelet volumes peaked 1-3 weeks after implant and remained greater than pregraft levels . examination of the graft luminal surface showed a developed pseudointima characteristically similar to that which develops in mature human vascular grafts . these results suggest that healed vascular grafts in canines continue to stimulate platelet release of txb2 , reduce systemic platelet counts , and increase mean platelet volumes over 1 year . these data further suggest that platelets are stimulated by the graft and consumed . 
palliative treatment of bile duct tumoral compression by an endoprosthesis : clinical results . the palliative therapy of stenoses of the biliary tract is a difficult choice . because percutaneous or endoscopic drainage methods are fraught with complications , an endoprosthesis for surgical intubation of the biliary tract has been developed . thirty patients were treated by this method . after choledochotomy , the endoprosthesis is positioned surgically above the sphincter of oddi , thereby avoiding ascending cholangitis . twenty-nine patients ( 13 with gallbladder cancer , 11 with cholangiocarcinomas , 5 with metastases ) presented with neoplastic compression , and one patient had an early postoperative stricture with loss of substance after right hepatectomy for hepatic metastases . the operative mortality was 3.3 % ( one pulmonary complication ) . resolution of jaundice was obtained in all but two patients , and pruritus always resolved . the mean survival time for the patients with cholangiocarcinoma was 12.2 months and 6.33 months for those with gallbladder cancer . indices of satisfaction ( bismuth 's method ) were 71 % ( gallbladder cancer ) , 93.5 % ( hilar cholangiocarcinoma ) , and 92 % ( metastatic compressions ) . this new type of surgical endoprosthesis is an alternative in the palliative treatment of neoplastic hilar compression because it is well tolerated , has a low rate of operative mortality or morbidity , and affords an acceptable quality of life for the patients . 
effects of retrovenous myocardial drug delivery after coronary artery occlusion in sheep . retrovenous ( rv ) myocardial delivery of blood and drugs into the coronary sinus ( cs ) through a 3 lumen balloon catheter was evaluated in sheep ( no coronary collaterals ) for protection from ventricular fibrillation ( vf ) during coronary artery occlusion . the balloon was asynchronously inflated ( cs occlusion ) for 5 sec and then deflated for 5 sec with 1 cc/sec of flow . the left anterior descending coronary artery was occluded with inflation of a percutaneous transluminal coronary angiography balloon and therapy started immediately . in a control group ( no therapy , n = 4 ) all developed vf by 30 min after coronary artery occlusion . the drugs lidocaine ( l ) , esmolol ( e ) , adenosine ( a ) , and deferoxamine ( d ) were evaluated for effects on eliminating developing vf with intravenous ( i.v. ) administration compared with rv administration with venous blood ( vb ) or arterial blood ( ab ) . the percent survival after ca occlusion ( no vf ) was : l i.v. , 0 % ; l rv with vb , 43 % ; l rv with ab , 17 % ; e i.v. , 50 % ; e rv with vb , 70 % ; a. i.v. , 29 % ; a rv with vb , 88 % ; d i.v. , 17 % ; and d rv with ab , 80 % . there was a trend toward lower myocardial necrosis ( seen by tetrazolium stain and/or light microscopy ) in the rv survivors ( especially with vb ) compared with the group i.v. survivors . these data suggest that rv antiarrhythmic drug delivery is a feasible alternative to i.v. administration during ca occlusion . 
cardiac arrest after hypertonic citrate anticoagulation for chronic hemodialysis . the use of regional citrate anticoagulation as an alternative to standard therapy in hemodialysis patients at risk for bleeding complications has been well described . recently , a method using hypertonic citrate has been reported as being safe and efficacious , and having several advantages over the usual techniques . two patients who suffered cardiac arrests after dialysis using hypertonic citrate are discussed . both received anticoagulation as described in the literature , although the citrate infusion rate was lower than recommended . electrocardiograms obtained during the first such session showed no change in the q-tc interval with initiation of the infusion in either patient . both were noted to have cardiac arrest within 5 minutes of discontinuation of dialysis , without warning symptoms , following the second and fifteenth treatments , respectively . the initial rhythm of ventricular fibrillation did not respond to standard advanced cardiac life support therapy , and the patients were not successfully resuscitated until they received intravenous calcium . the authors postulate that the loss of positive calcium flux from the dialysate , in conjunction with circulating unmetabolized citrate , caused an electrolyte imbalance leading to the potentially fatal arrhythmia . caution is recommended in using this method of regional anticoagulation . 
another way of pumping blood with a rotary but noncentrifugal pump for an artificial heart . this article describes an alternative mode of pumping blood inside the body . the device is a non centrifugal , valveless , low speed rotary pump , electrically powered , based on wankel engine principle . the authors developed an implantable electrical actuator resulting in a compact , sealed motor-pump unit with electrical and magnetic components insulated from fluids . the results in the flow curve and in the pumping action show some common points but also some basic differences compared to classical pulsatile pumps or centrifugal pumps . the blood coming from the atrium follows a continuous movement without any stop flow but with variations creating pulsatility . ejection and filling of the pump are simultaneous . it is always an active filling . hydraulic efficiency depends on clearance in the pumping chamber and outlet port pressure . a 60 cc device allows flows up to 8-9 liters . the implantable motor is cyclindrical in shape , has a moderate weight ( 490 grams ) and presents a good efficiency ( 32 % for a rotary speed of 90 rpm against a mean aortic pressure of 150 mm of hg ) . the authors conclude that their device could be proposed after further experimental studies , as an lvad for shortterm assistance with a good promise for permanent application . 
estimation of reynolds stresses within the penn state left ventricular assist device . fluid velocities were measured using a two-component laser doppler anemometery ( lda ) system at 129 locations within a plexiglas model of a 70 cm3 penn state electric left ventricular assist device ( lvad ) . the lvad was driven by a pulsatile piston pump acting on an attached segmented polyurethane diaphragm . bjork-shiley tilting disc valves were used to provide unidirectional flow through the inlet and outlet ports . a seeded blood analog fluid , which matched the kinematic viscosity of blood at high shear rates and the refractive index of plexiglas , was used to make the measurements . at each location , 250 instantaneous velocity realizations were collected at eight instances during the pump cycle . the maximum reynolds shear and normal stresses were calculated for each pump cycle time and location after filtering the data . the results reveal that the highest reynolds shear and normal stresses occur in the near wall region just proximal to the aortic valve during diastole , and reach values of 5,300 dynes/cm2 and 10,800 dynes/cm2 , respectively . the elevated turbulent stresses are observed during the period of regurgitant flow through the aortic valve , with peak stress values arising during the period of peak regurgitant flow . this supports the hypothesis that a regurgitant turbulent jet is formed near the wall of the prosthetic aortic valve and may be contributing to blood damage . 
improved biocompatibility by postfixation treatment of aldehyde fixed bovine pericardium . long-standing release of locally cytotoxic aldehyde concentrations is responsible for lack of spontaneous endothelialization and increased calcification of glutaraldehyde fixed bovine pericardium . postfixation treatment with amino acids made in vitro endothelialization of bioprosthetic heart valves possible . such treated pericardium calcified significantly less ( 13 + / - 4 micrograms/mg dry weight ) than did conventionally processed pericardium ( 114 + / - 25 micrograms/mg ) after 63 days of subcutaneous implantation in rats . to test the ability for spontaneous in vivo endothelialization , 5 sheep had 6 mm grafts made from postfixation treated pericardium ( ptp ) implanted into the carotid artery , compared to ptfe grafts on the contralateral side , which spontaneously endothelialize in animal models . in a pregnant animal , both grafts occluded . all remaining pericardial grafts remained patent , but one additional ptfe graft occluded and another one was stenosed . the area covered with red thrombus was significantly smaller in the ptp grafts ( 3.05 + / - 3.9 % ) than in the ptfe grafts 42 + / - 14 % ( p = 0.0036 ) ; tem and sem showed endothelial cells growing directly on the ptp , but only on myofibroblasts in ptfe grafts . postfixation treatment of glutaraldehyde fixed pericardium aids spontaneous endothelialization and decreases tissue calcification . 
( a ) typical symptoms during single needle dialysis . in 5 elderly patients , an abnormally high occurrence of some symptoms was noted during dialysis . all patients were dialyzed with biocompatible membranes , bicarbonate dialysate , and a blood flow of 250 to 300 ml/min by a single needle system , on a fistula 14 gauge catheter-needle . these symptoms were : 1 ) " angina , " resistant to o2 and nitrates , with biochemical stigmata of infarction , but without electrocardiogram ( ecg ) localization ; 2 ) intractable persistent hypotension , not hypovolemic , lasting 1 or 2 days ; 3 ) esophagal spasms , with inability to swallow solid food . because we knew that these symptoms were compatible with hemolysis ( biochemically proven by the increase in serum ldh during dialysis and by a fall in haptoglobin ) due to red cell fragmentation ( rcf ) , we switched these patients from fistula dialysis ( a ) to central catheter dialysis ( b ) , with the same apperture , blood flow , etc . the total number of sessions of a versus b were 512 and 891 ; the mean ldh ratios ( serum ldh postdialysis divided by predialysis ) were 1.8 and 1.0 ( = no rcf ) ; angina events were 132 ( 26 % ) for a , and 25 ( 3 % ) for b ; persistent hypotension was seen 37 ( 7 % ) times in a and 5 ( 0.6 % ) times in b ; esophagal spasms were noted 65 ( 13 % ) times for a , and 0 times for b. this clinical improvement was so overwhelming that 3 patients refused to be dialyzed again using their well functioning fistulae . this study also proved the need for a better designed and manufactured peripheral dialysis catheter-needle . 
acellular matrix allograft small caliber vascular prostheses . we have developed an acellular matrix vascular prosthesis ( amvp ) made by detergent and enzymatic extraction of natural arteries , yielding a tissue framework of collagen and elastin from the original vessel , with preservation of the natural basement membrane at the blood flow surface . these biografts have excellent handling characteristics and suturability , as well as low thromboreactivity . whole vessel static testing of circumferential compliance ( 8.9 + / - 1 [ sem ] x 10 ( -2 ) % mmhg at 100 mmhg ) revealed behavior virtually identical to the paired natural vessel from which each amvp was derived in nine canine carotid arteries . we implanted 16 canine-origin amvps into nine dogs ( 12 femoral and three carotid arteries , and one infrarenal aorta ) with no antithrombotic drugs . angiographic patency was maintained in 15 of 16 ( one occlusion within 3 days ) for follow-up from 3 days to 6 years , with no aneurysm formation in three amvp at over 4 1/2 years . explant analysis revealed preservation of amvp elastica and collagen with no inflammation or dystropic calcification of the amvp , and almost total thrombus free flow surfaces . these results suggest that allograft amvps could achieve long-term patency equivalent to saphenous veins . 
development of a soft , pliable , slow heparin release venous graft . to prevent their collapse , a certain amount of stiffness is generally required for prosthetic venous grafts , so eptfe grafts have been used . however , the native vein is pliable without any stiffness . we developed a soft and pliable graft that can maintain patency of the lumen because of its compliance . fresh porcine ureter was incubated in a ficin solution to remove cell components and noncollagenous proteins . one percent protamine sulfate solution was injected into the ureter lumen to impregnate the inner surface . the ureter was then crosslinked with a 1 % glutaraldehyde solution , dipped into a 1 % heparin solution for 5 hours , and rinsed with distilled water . this procedure made the ureter very soft and pliable , and also conferred antithrombogenicity to the graft by heparinization . the grafts were implanted into the posterior vena cavae of 20 dogs and were removed from 1 to 878 days after implantation . eighteen grafts were patent , but two grafts were occluded at the anastomotic site at 218 and 107 days , respectively . as a control experiment , nonheparinized grafts were implanted into 15 dogs ; all were occluded with fresh thrombi . all the patent grafts kept their original elasticity , which allowed them to heave in unison with the heartbeat , and were similar in appearance to the native vena cava . heparinization was effective in preventing thrombus formation . these results indicate that this type of graft is an ideal prosthesis as a venous graft , having physiologic properties such as compliance and antithrombogenicity . 
endothelialization of vascular prostheses by transplantation of venous tissue fragments . a method to accelerate the endothelialization of vascular prostheses by seeding venous tissue fragments was developed . a piece of peripheral vein was obtained , chopped into small fragments , and stirred into 20 ml of saline , making a tissue suspension . this suspension was sieved through the wall of a highly porous vascular prosthesis ( water porosity : 3,600-4 ,000 ) . the prostheses , ( 7 mm id and 5.7 cm in length ) seeded with tissue fragments , were implanted into the thoracic descending aortae of 20 dogs , and were removed from 1 to 371 days after implantation . ten prostheses , preclotted with fresh blood , were used as controls . in the seeded grafts , an infinite number of endothelial cells migrated and proliferated from the fragments . these had produced numerous capillaries by 5 days after implantation that had reached and opened onto the luminal surface of the prosthesis . from these openings , numerous endothelial cells spread out and formed colonies . with the increase in the size of the colonies , the inner surface was completely endothelialized within 5 weeks . this quick neointimal formation by seeding venous tissue fragments might be applicable to several artificial organs . 
events following implantation of an intraluminal ringed prosthesis in the ascending , transverse , and descending thoracic aorta . from march 1978 through july 1985 , 23 patients underwent implantation of 24 intraluminal ringed prostheses ( irp ) . there were 18 men and 5 women , with a mean age of 54.7 years , range 15-74 years . eleven irp were placed in the ascending aorta , two in the transverse arch , and 11 in the descending aorta . pathology included acute aortic dissection in four patients , chronic dissection in four , and aortic aneurysm in 16 . there were eight hospital deaths ( 35 % ) . causes of death included acute cardiac failure in seven patients , and ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm in one . irp complications requiring revision included right coronary artery occlusion in three of 11 patients ( 27 % ) with an irp in the ascending aorta . graft revision was also required in three of 11 irp implanted in the descending aorta ( 27 % ) , due to graft occlusion in one and graft stenosis in two . of the six patients with irp complications , there were three hospital deaths ( 50 % ) . all 15 hospital survivors were followed for a mean of 68.5 months , range 5-112 months . there were four late deaths ( 26.7 % ) . causes of late death included hemoptysis in one , cardiomyopathy in one , and aortic redissection and rupture in two . we conclude that patients undergoing repair of aortic pathology with irp have an important risk of early phase events , as technical problems can occur due to malposition and slippage of the securing rings . 
functional heart replacement with the spindle pump : first results . the spindle pump is a nonpulsatile blood pump with a double function , i.e. , it works centrifugally and represses simultaneously . the first experiences with this type of pump used as a biventricular assist device in four short-term animal experiments ( up to 13 hours ) are described . it can be demonstrated that in cases of a normally beating heart , this bvad decompresses both ventricles by 60-70 % , while the aortic pressure is slightly increased ; on the other hand , in case of ventricular fibrillation , the bvad with two spindle pumps maintained the entire circulation , at an arterial pressure between 80 and 90 mmhg with a flow volume between 3.5 and 4 l/min . 
maintenance of circulation during ventricular fibrillation with the simultaneous use of two " counterpulsation " devices . two valveless , single orifice counterpulsation devices , with pumping stroke volumes of 65 ml each , were implanted on the ascending aorta and pulmonary artery of seven open chest anesthetized dogs . after completion of the preparation , ventricular fibrillation was induced . the devices were synchronized to pump simultaneously at a rate of 85-100 bpm . the combined use of the counterpulsation devices provided maximal aortic pressure of 111.4 + / - 25.1 mmhg during ventricular fibrillation for a period of 15-60 min . the mean left ventricular pressure was 17.7 + / - 4.4 mmhg , and the cardiac index 64.5 + / - 23.6 ml/kg/min . cardioversion of ventricular fibrillation to sinus rhythm restored normal hemodynamics . the counterpulsation device implanted on the ascending aorta was not able to maintain circulation for more than 5 min after the induction of ventricular fibrillation , if used alone . in conclusion , the use of two counterpulsation devices implanted on the ascending aorta and pulmonary artery was able to maintain circulation in experimental animals during ventricular fibrillation . 
limitation of myocardial infarct size by a right ventricular assist device . to evaluate the effects of an rvad on myocardial ischemic injury during right coronary artery ( rca ) ligation , a pneumatically driven pusher plate pump was inserted between the right atrium and pulmonary artery , and the rca was ligated at its origin for two hr . there were 18 sheep , of which nine each served as the control and rvad groups . hemodynamic parameters and blood samples were collected from the coronary sinus . area at risk and area of infarct were detected by gentian violet injection and triphenyltetrazolium ( ttc ) staining . hemodynamic parameters ( left ventricular systolic pressure ( lvsp ) , cardiac output ( co ] , and creatine kinase levels in coronary sinus blood tended to be beneficial , to some degree , in the rvad group . electron microscopic examination revealed chromatin clumping and mitochondrial destruction , however this ultrastructural damage was more severe in the control group . the ratio of area of infarct to area at risk in the rvad group was significantly less than that in the control group , being 20.25 + / - 6.93 % vs. 47.24 + / - 10.53 % ( p less than 0.05 ) . the infarct size induced by rca occlusion was significantly reduced by the rvad , due to the right ventricular unloading via reduced myocardial oxygen demand . 
long-term efficacy of al3 + for prevention of bioprosthetic heart valve calcification . ai3 + preincubation has been shown in 21 and 60 day implants to inhibit calcification of glutaraldehyde preserved bovine pericardium ( gpbp ) in the rat subdermal model . this study was designed to assess the long-term anticalcification efficacy of gpbp ai3 + preincubation . rat ( 50-60 gm , male , cd sprague-dawley ) subdermal implants of gpbp , pretreated with 0.01 m or 0.1 m aici3 , were carried out for 21 , 60 , 90 , and 120 days . each explanted gpbp was analyzed for ca2 + by atomic absorption spectroscopy and for ai3 + by atomic absorption spectroscopy or neutron activation irradiation . results showed profound long-term ( implant duration 120 days ) inhibition of calcification after gpbp preincubation in 0.1 m aici3 ( ca2 + = 21.8 + / - 12.6 micrograms/mg ) , compared to control ( ca2 + = 329.0 + / - 20.3 micrograms/mg ) . after preincubation in 0.1 m aici3 and 21 day rat subdermal implantation , gpbp ai3 + levels declined from 9033 + / - 680 micrograms/g ( control = 6.3 + / - 3.7 micrograms/g ) to 2700 + / - 156 micrograms/g ; however , there was no further significant decline in gpbp ai3 + levels after long-term implantation of 120 days ( 2618.4 + / - 349 micrograms/g ) . the authors conclude that gpbp preincubation in 0.1 m aici3 markedly inhibited pathologic calcification to 7 % of control values in the rat model after long-term ( 120 day ) subdermal implantation . 
a new bioprosthetic cardiac valve with reduced calcification . a bioprosthetic cardiac valve cross-linked with a glycerol polyglycidyl ether polyepoxy compound ( pc ) was developed in order to reduce calcification and degeneration , which often occurs in bioprosthetic cardiac valves . aortic valves harvested from dogs were treated with pc ( pc valve ) . right ventricle ( rv ) - pulmonary artery ( pa ) bypasses were placed in 12 dogs with pc-valved conduits , and the main pa was ligated . x-ray right ventriculography at 36 days ( 1 dog ) and 37 days ( 1 dog ) revealed an excellent open/close performance of the pc valve , and there was no visible thrombus in the valve . in our basic study , pc treated collagen gel disks implanted in the subcutaneous layer of growing rats showed remarkably less calcium deposition than did those treated with glutaraldehyde ( ga ) . biologic materials cross-linked with pc maintain their pliability , and become more hydrophilic and more hydrated than those cross-linked with ga . the hydrophilicity and hydration provide sufficient antithrombogenicity and a suitable environment for metabolism in the tissue fluid which contains oxygen , nutritive substances , and electrolytes , leading to inhibition of material degeneration . therefore , pc valves are expected to show good valve function , sufficient antithrombogenicity , and excellent durability with less calcification , when compared to ga treated valves . 
detailed examination of complete bioprosthetic heart valves . six ( 3 control and 3 explanted ) bioprostheses were examined histologically after embedding the complete valve in " plastic " and sectioning across the valve at 90 degree to the horizontal plane , and then horizontally across a stent post , with a low speed saw . the prostheses , porcine or pericardial , had been in place 52 to 121 months . in addition to cusp changes of degeneration and calcification that have been previously reported , the authors found extensive pannus deposition on the cloth covering the inflow surface of the prostheses , with some extension onto the biologic components ; evidence of insudation of tissue fluid and ingrowth of fibroblasts ; deposition of collagen ; and infiltration of mononuclear cells in the interstices and interfaces . non-biologic components showed changes which may have affected prosthesis function . the synthetic material covering the metal/plastic frame showed interstitial mononuclear cells . two of the three explanted valves showed changes in the polymeric plastic , and one in the metal components , including accentuated notching along the surfaces when compared to unimplanted prostheses . a larger number of prostheses must be examined before definite conclusions can be drawn . 
altered pattern of calcium kinetics in hemodialysis patients after parathyroidectomy . six hd patients with severe secondary hyperparathyroidism ( shpt ) underwent studies of calcium kinetics prior to and after parathyroidectomy ( ptx ) with autotransplantation . postoperatively , patients received vitamin d and calcium supplementation . before ptx , a markedly elevated bone turnover was found , with increased fluxes of calcium from plasma into the exchangeable calcium pool . this pool was three times larger than normal , indicating a high risk of extraosseous calcifications . despite a marked fall in parathyroid hormone ( ipth ) levels after ptx , bone cell activity was maintained , as indicated by elevated values for ca retention . although ca efflux from plasma into other compartments of the exchangeable pools remained above normal , the size of the total exchangeable calcium pool markedly decreased after ptx , indicating that ptx with autotransplantation , followed by vitamin d therapy , can normalize bone turnover and shift the balance of calcium flux towards mineralized bone . reduction in the exchangeable calcium pool may explain the clinical finding that extraosseous calcifications regress in some patients after ptx . 
benefit of bicarbonate dialysis during cavhd . the effect of bicarbonate dialysate ( bd ) on acid-base status in six pediatric cavhd patients was examined during seven episodes of metabolic acidosis . when metabolic acidosis was not corrected with cavhd , a sterile bd was substituted for either acetate - or lactate-based dialysate . pre - and post-bd substitution levels of lactate , hco3 , pco2 , anion gap , and ph were recorded , as well as dose of intravenous ( i.v. ) bicarbonate . improvements in ph and serum hco3 were seen in all seven cases . anion gap decreased in all but one of the patients who were switched from lactate to bicarbonate dialysate , with improvement most marked in those patients with marked elevation of the anion gap . no adverse effect on pco2 was noted . lactate dialysate may be less effective when serum lactate levels are high , and may contribute to further elevation of lactate levels and anion gap . these data suggest that bicarbonate dialysate may be preferable to lactate or acetate dialysate in cavhd patients with persistent metabolic acidosis . 
complications of tenckhoff catheters post removal . complications due to tenckhoff catheters can occur at prolonged intervals after their removal . from january 1979 to october 1989 , 431 patients at our center began continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) , 278 of whom subsequently transferred to another form of renal replacement therapy . we identified 12 patients ( 4.3 % or 12/278 ) with post removal catheter complications . there were 14 post removal complications , two each in two patients , and one in each of 12 others . the mean time to complication was 541 + / - 143 days ( 27-2 ,040 ) . in 71 % ( 10/14 ) of the complications , an abscess was found at the site of the previously removed tenckhoff catheter . in 29 % ( 4/14 ) of the complications , foreign body material consistent with a retained cuff was recovered . documentation at the time of tenckhoff catheter removal should include a statement regarding the presence of the tenckhoff catheter cuffs , and patients with retained cuffs should be monitored closely for the development of abscesses or other complications . immunocompromised patients are at high risk for these complications . 
a composite driving system for lvas and iabp : practical and effective driving and weaning . we have devised a new method , termed alternate synchronous driving ( asd ) , to wean patients from a left ventricular assist system ( lvas ) to a pressure assist intraaortic balloon pump ( iabp ) . we have built a new drive unit , vct200 , to apply asd easily and automatically . after iabp insertion in the final weaning stage , this method drives the lvas and iabp alternately , with electrocardiogram ( ecg ) synchronization . the pumping ratio of iabp increases while that of lvas decreases according to recovery of natural heart function . in in vitro studies , asd was effective when bypass flow ( bf ) was less than 50 % of total flow ( tf ) ( tf : bf + cardiac output [ co ] ) , and its advantages increased under lower bf conditions . mean aortic pressure ( map ) and co increased 10 mmhg and 15 % , respectively , with this method ( iabp : lvas = 1:1 ) when bf was 30 % of tf . during in vivo studies , map increased 75.7 + / - 6.7 mmhg to 80.1 + / - 3.6 mmhg ( p less than 0.001 ) , and the co increased from 3.1 + / - 0.5 l/min to 3.3 + / - 0.5 l/min ( p less than 0.001 ) , while the endocardial viability ratio ( dpti/tti ) increased 20-30 % . this method was used in a 62-year-old man in which lvas was applied after ventricular aneurysmectomy , bf was reduced from 2.2 l/min to 1.1 l/min by using asd without any change in systemic perfusion . this reduction of bf could not be achieved with lvas alone . from these data , this system could wean patients from lvas and then switch to iabp smoothly , easily , and automatically , without hemodynamic instability . 
thromboembolytic complications during circulatory assistance with a centrifugal pump in patients with valvular prostheses . this article describes two patients with artificial heart valves who suffered thromboembolytic complications during circulatory assistance using a biomedicus centrifugal pump . the first case involved a 25-year-old man who presented acute blockage of a mechanical aortic valve . emergency surgery was performed to replace this valve with a bioprosthesis . postoperatively the patient developed severe left heart insufficiency and a biomedicus centrifugal pump was placed between the left atrium and the ascending aorta . after 3 days of total left ventricular assistance , weaning was started and successfully completed with explanation on the 5th day . two days later the patient died of multiple coronary embolism with thrombosis of the valve . the second case involved a 30-year-old man . six months before , he underwent surgical procedure with placement of bio-prosthesis for dissecting aortic aneurysm due to annuloectasia . upon admission for terminal dilated myocardiopathy , the patient was in kidney failure almost requiring dialysis . because of this patient 's size ( marfan syndrome ) , no donor heart was immediately available and left circulatory assistance with a biomedicus pump had to be initiated . the patient lived without mechanical ventilation , in good clinical condition until day 23 when he presented acute right heart failure due to extensive valvular and coronary thrombosis . from these two cases , several important comments can be made about anticoagulation therapy , partial unloading of left ventricle , or need for biventricular assistance , and efficiency of centrifugal devices in these clinical applications . 
long-term echocardiographic follow-up of patients with a tricuspid bioprosthesis . to clarify the long-term results of bioprosthetic valve function in the tricuspid position , 29 consecutive patients who underwent tricuspid valve replacement ( tvr ) were evaluated . there were 20 girls/women and 9 boys/men , with ages ranging from 6 to 61 years ( mean 41.4 years ) . the bioprosthetic valves included hancock in 2 , and carpentier-edwards in 27 . the follow-up period ranged from 32 to 145 months ( mean 89 months ) . regurgitant flow of the tricuspid bioprosthesis was studied by color doppler echocardiography . peak velocity ( vp ) and pressure half time ( pht ) were measured by continuous wave doppler echocardiography . operative mortality was 13.7 % ( 4/29 ) , with the actuarial survival rate , including operative deaths , 75 % at 10 years . valve thrombosis developed in one patient 4 years after tvr . color doppler showed regurgitation in 7 of the 20 patients who were completely followed up , but they were all asymptomatic and required no special intervention . cusp tear or calcification requiring reoperation was not observed in this study , including 8 patients younger than 35 years of age . the vp was significantly slower , and pht was significantly prolonged , in the tricuspid rather than the mitral position . these data demonstrate that bioprosthetic valves in the tricuspid position can be used safely . doppler examination should be performed taking these different flow dynamics into account . 
prognosis of hospital survivors after salvage from cardiopulmonary bypass with centrifugal cardiac assist . since october 1986 , 6 hospital survivors who were salvaged from cardiopulmonary bypass ( cpb ) with the sarns centrifugal pump were observed . centrifugal assist was employed only after failure to wean with usual resuscitative measures , including multiple high dose inotropes and intraaortic balloon pumping . there were five men and one woman , 46-59 years of age ( mean 61 years ) . all patients had undergone coronary artery bypass grafting , with two patients having had concomitant left ventricular aneurysmectomy and two aortic valve replacement . five patients had left ventricular assist only and one had biventricular assist . duration of assist ranged from 26 to 72 hr ( mean 48 hr ) . complications were ubiquitous , and the resultant prolonged hospitalization was resource intensive . all hospital survivors remain alive and are in new york heart association functional class ii , with an average follow-up of 24 months , ( 6-41 months ) . compared with preoperative values , current left ventricular function is improved in 2 patients , has deteriorated in 3 , and is unchanged in 1 . thus , the sarns centrifugal pump will allow salvage of some patients who otherwise are not weanable from cpb . survivors can expect a reasonable functional capacity as reflected by this experience . 
effects of prostaglandin i2 , superoxide dismutase , and catalase on ischemia-reperfusion injury in liver transplantation . this study evaluated the effects of a prostaglandin i2 analogue ( apgi2 ) , superoxide dismutase ( sod ) , and catalase ( cat ) on hepatic injury after warm ischemia and reperfusion in terms of survival , mitochondrial function , serum enzymes , and histology . hepatic ischemia was created in rats by clamping the hepatoduodenal ligament for 90 min with splenofemoral bypass . reperfusion was induced by unclamping the vessels and disconnecting the splenofemoral bypass . then apgi2 ( 350 ng/kg/min ) was infused for 60 min just before hepatic ischemia , and sod and cat ( 5,000 units/kg each ) were administered immediately before the start of reperfusion . serum enzyme and mitochondrial function assessments of livers were made just after ischemia , and after 2 hr of reperfusion . survival rate was also assessed in a separate group of rats . liver enzymes such as sgot , sgpt , and ldh showed no correlation to liver viability . the administration of apgi2 alone showed no effect on ischemically injured mitochondria ; however , the free radical scavengers ( sod , cat ) , in combination with apgi2 , showed significant improvement of mitochondrial function together with extension of survival . the ultrastructure of hepatocytes was better preserved in the treated groups . these agents improved the viability of ischemic-reperfused injured livers . 
an extracorporeal perfusion system to bridge pediatric liver transplant candidates . an extracorporeal liver perfusion system was designed to maintain cadaver livers in an oxygenated , normothermic state for bridging procedures for hepatic transplantation . nonpulsatile high flow and pulsatile low flow blood are supplied to the portal venous ( pv ) and hepatic arterial ( ha ) circulations . controlled low blood flow ( 5-10 cc/kg [ patient ] / min ) is exchanged between the high flow extracorporeal perfusion circuit ( 1 cc/g [ liver ] / min ) and the patient . the system was evaluated in perfusions of fresh , excised pig livers ( n = 5 ) . the average oxygen consumption was 9 + / - 3 microliters/g/min , and bile production averaged 4.7 microliters/g/hr . perfusion pressures and flows were normal in both the ha and pv circulations for about 4 hr . pressures then gradually rose , especially in the ha circulation , causing flow to decrease , with subsequent mottling and discoloration of the liver . red blood cell , platelet , and white blood cell counts fell continuously . maintenance of liver function was assessed by clearance of an 80 mg taurocholic acid challenge . an average of 56 % of injected acid was cleared from the perfused livers ( n = 5 ) in the first half hour , compared with 90 % and 25 % for the in situ ( n = 3 ) and unperfused ( n = 3 ) control livers , respectively . the system consistently maintained livers in a moderately well functioning state through the first 4 hr of perfusion . adequate support of animals with induced hepatic failure must now be demonstrated . 
comparison of delphin and biomedicus pumps . there is an increasing use of centrifugal pump systems for cardiopulmonary bypass ( cpb ) and circulatory assistance . the biomedicus and delphin centrifugal pump systems were tested in two side-by-side , identical in vitro flow loops for blood trauma and flow probe accuracy . blood parameters tested were hemoglobin , hematocrit , lactate dehydrogenase , free plasma hemoglobin , and platelet counts . the delphin pump demonstrated significant increases in plasma hemoglobin levels at the three flow rates tested : 2 l/min ( p less than 0.05 ) , 4 l/min ( p less than 0.005 ) , and 6 l/min ( p less than 0.05 ) . after 4 hr of pumping , the drop in platelet counts was significantly greater in the biomedicus loop as compared with the delphin loop ( p less than 0.05 ) at the 2 l/min and 4 l/min flow rates ; however , platelet levels remained within normal ranges in both systems . at 6 l/min , no statistical difference in platelet counts was noted . the flow probe readings were found to deviate by as much as 58 % of stopwatch timed flow rate comparisons at low flow rates , but improved to within 10 % or better at 6 l/min . 
experience with the sarns centrifugal pump as a ventricular assist device . the authors used the sarns centrifugal pump ( sarns 3m , ann arbor , mi ) as a ventricular assist device ( vad ) in 30 patients between may 1985 and february 1990 . sixteen patients were unweanable from cardiopulmonary bypass at the time of surgery ; nine were patients who developed cardiogenic shock postoperatively in the intensive care unit . one was a donor organ failure ; one had a failed ptca ; and one an acute myocardial infarction with cardiogenic shock preoperatively . two patients were bridged to cardiac transplantation . of the 28 nontransplant candidates , 20 ( 71.4 % ) were weaned successfully , 14 ( 50 % ) were discharged from the hospital , and 13 ( 46 % ) are alive from 1 to 46 months postoperatively ( mean , 21.1 months ) . three patients received right ventricular support alone ; all three were weaned , and two ( 66.7 % ) were discharged . ten patients received left ventricular assistance alone . six ( 60 % ) were weaned , and four ( 40 % ) were discharged . two patients received left ventricular support initially but were taken back for right vad insertion because of right-sided heart failure ; one ( 50 % ) is alive . fifteen patients received biventricular support . eleven ( 77.3 % ) were weaned , and eight ( 53.3 % ) were discharged . patient ages ranged from 19 to 73 years , with a mean age for men of 59 years and 50.5 years for women . there were no thromboembolic events . various clinical parameters were evaluated to determine effect on weanability and survival . these results show survival equivalent to any other vad at this time . the centrifugal pump is a convenient and effective means of maintaining ventricular support in individuals who are believed to have salvageable myocardium . 
improved survival after hemopump insertion in patients experiencing postcardiotomy cardiogenic shock during cardiopulmonary bypass . immediate placement of a hemopump ( hp ) ventricular assist device was undertaken in nine patients ( seven men , two women ) after other attempts at weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass ( cpb ) after coronary bypass surgery had failed . all nine patients ( 100 % ) were successfully weaned from cpb , and six ( 63.3 % ) gradually improved enough to permit removal of hp support . five ( 83.3 % ) of the six who were weaned from cpb survived beyond hospital discharge . hp support was evaluated in terms of vital organ function , incidence of complications , and clinical outcome . in both survivors ( s ) and nonsurvivors ( ns ) , serial hemodynamic measurements were taken . although there were few differences in hemodynamic parameters between groups at 4 hr , by 24 hr the s group had markedly improved cardiac index , glasgow coma scale , urinary output , and pulse pressure and required far less inotropic support than did the ns group . all four patients who required high dose inotropic agents to maintain acceptable end-organ perfusion on hp support died ; three were unable to tolerate weaning from the hp , and all died within 72 hr of surgery because of ineffective myocardial recovery . none of the survivors required additional early inotropic augmentation . renal perfusion appeared to be well maintained , even with mean arterial pressures below 60 mmhg during hp support . there were no episodes of hemolysis , infection , or limb ischemia in either group . thus , the hemopump provided excellent circulatory support for those patients who could not be weaned from cpb by traditional methods . 
hemopump support for the failing heart . under fluoroscopy , the hemopump is passed through the aortic valve into the left ventricle through a gortex ( wf gore , denver , co ) chimney sewn to a surgically exposed femoral artery . the system aspirates the left ventricular blood and actively pumps it into the aorta . five patients ( four men , one woman ) , aged 47-71 years ( mean , 62 years ) , were candidates for hemopump support because of refractory cardiogenic shock . three were recovering from repeated coronary artery bypass graft ( cabg ) surgery , and two required postoperative emergency cabg for failed percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) . one patient died during insertion , and four had the hemo-pump successfully placed . all patients had low cardiac out-put and had intraaortic balloons in place . average insertion time took 20 min , with maintenance on the hemopump for an average of 13 hr . one patient was maintained on the hemopump for 12 hr , but because of continued deterioration , was placed on a total artificial heart ( harvik 7-70 ) . patients 3 ( hemopump inserted transthoracically ) and 4 had the hemopump discontinued because of brain death , and the fifth survived . this patient is alive and working 1 yr later . the hemopump is an effective left ventricular support system that is less invasive than conventional transthoracic systems . 
clinical experience with the nimbus pump . the nimbus pump is an indwelling , electromagnetic powered left ventricular ( lv ) assist device inserted transfemorally . the inflow cannula ( 7 mm ) is positioned across the aortic valve and the pump in the descending aorta . indications for insertion include cardiogenic shock despite maximal medical support and pcwp greater than 18 mmhg , map less than 90 mmhg , and cl less than 2 l/min/m2 . twelve patients underwent the attempt at surgical insertion of the nimbus pump . diagnoses included eight acute myocardial infarctions ( ami ) , two ischemic cardiomyopathy , one postpartum cardiomyopathy , and one transplanted heart rejection . eight ( 67 % ) of twelve patients had successful insertion . one patient had peripheral vascular disease preventing passage , and three had femoral vessels too small for insertion ( less than 7.5 hagar dilator ) . five patients with the diagnosis of ami had successful insertion and three ( 60 % ) underwent sufficient lv recovery for removal of the device ; the other two patients died of stroke and ventricular arrhythmias , respectively . three patients with the diagnosis of cardiomyopathy had progression of the disease process , and their needs exceeded the capabilities of the pump and they died of multiorgan failure . the nimbus pump is an attractive lv assist device because of its pumping capacity ( 3.5 l/min ) and minor surgical procedure for insertion . however , its application is limited because of access route and size . the device appears to work well for patients in cardiogenic shock after ami ( 60 % recovery ) but does not appear indicated for patients with cadiomyopathy . 
maximum blood flow rates for arterial cannulae used in neonatal ecmo . the arterial cannulae used in neonatal ecmo cause hemolysis and red blood cell damage at elevated blood flows . hemolysis in extracorporeal circuits has been found to occur with shear stress greater than 132 dynes/cm2 , turbulence as measured by reynold 's number greater than 1,000 , and velocity greater than 120 to 200 cm/sec . these parameters need to be considered when sizing the proper arterial cannula for a required flow rate . in-vitro measurements of the pressure drop across six arterial cannulae at varying flow rates were performed using human blood with a hematocrit of 43 % . shear stress , reynold 's number , velocity , and pressure drop were calculated for each catheter at flow rates from 50 to 1,000 cc/min . the maximum mean flow rate to maintain the shear stress , reynold 's number , velocity , and pressure drop within the accepted range , was determined for each cannula . recommended maximum blood flow rates for each of the six cannulae are given . internal diameter , length , and cannula geometry appear to be the factors most affecting the flow achievable without causing red blood cell damage and hemolysis . ten french biomedicus , 10 french cook , and 10 french elecath arterial cannulae appear best suited to deliver the range of blood flow rates used in neonatal ecmo . 
multi-institutional evaluation of the tokyo university ventricular assist system . a total of 61 vass developed in tokyo university were evaluated at 21 institutions in the period 1985-1989 for determination of its reliability and effectiveness . the system is comprised of a pneumatic sack-type pump ( nippon zeon co. ) , and its driving console ( aishin seiki co. ) . the stroke volume of the pump is 40 ml and blood contacting surfaces are coated with cardiothane . ages of the patients ( pts ) ranged from 12-82 yrs ( mean 58 yrs ) . vass were used in the assist mode of lvad ( 54 pts ) , rvad ( 5 pts ) and bvad ( 2 pts ) . most of the cases ( 58 pts ) included postocardiotomy cardiogenic shock after surgery for ischemic ( 28 pts ) , valvular ( 22 pts ) , both ischemic and valvular ( 7 pts ) and congenital ( 1 pt ) heart diseases . average duration of the assist ranged from 1 hr-20 days ( mean 5.6 dys ) . the vads could be weaned in 34 cases ( 56 % ) and among these , 13 cases ( 21 % ) survived to discharge from the hospital . causes of death in cases which could be weaned from the vad included multiple organ failure/due to delayed institution of adequate circulatory support , renal failure and systemic infection . small and minute thrombus formations were noted in 7 cases however , no pump originated thromboembolism were complicated . no troubles of the pump including leakage nor breakage , no mechanical failures of the driving consoles were experienced in any of the cases . thus , it is concluded that the system was proved to be clinically effective and reliable . 
thrombus in a natural left ventricle during left ventricular assist : another thromboembolic risk factor . systemic thromboembolism is one of the serious complications during use of a left ventricular assist system ( lvas ) . the authors ' original lvas has excellent antithrombogenicity to reduce this risk , but thrombus formation in a natural left ventricle ( lv ) is another risk factor for systemic embolization . we used our lvas in 22 patients . of these , lv wall motion was studied in 15 , and a smoke-like echo disclosed thrombus in the lv in eight . when lvas sufficiently supported the systemic circulation , lv wall motion was irregular upon closure of the aortic valve . upon recovery of lv function and decrease of lvas flow , the smoke-like echo diminished and lv thrombus decreased in one , but lv thrombus remained unchanged or increased in seven . systemic administration of antithrombotic agents had an unclear effect . seven of eight patients with lv thrombus on echo died during or after lvas . in these seven , a high incidence of lv thrombus ( 71 % ) , and systemic embolism to the brain ( 29 % ) or kidney ( 86 % ) , were revealed at necropsy . we subsequently used local heparinization to prevent lv thrombus formation . one patient with a smoke-like echo had no evidence of lv thrombus or systemic embolism . during lv assist , careful management of the lvas , and intra-lv heparinization should be considered to reduce the risk of thrombus formation in the natural lv . 
effect of a leukocyte-platelet removal filter on ischemia induced reperfusion injury . the effect of leukocyte and platelet depletion on reperfusion injury using a leukocyte-platelet removal filter ( lrf ) in intracoronary thrombolysis is reported . to better define the usefulness of lrf in evaluating the effectiveness of intracoronary thrombolysis with this device , several cardiovascular variables were examined in rabbits during ischemia followed by reperfusion . the rabbits underwent cytoapheresis with lrf ( n = 5 ) and were compared with controls without lrf ( n = 5 ) . lrf was composed of a nonwoven polyester fabric ( 1.8 microns , 4.6 gm ) . removal of leukocytes and platelets by lrf was 98 % for both . a period of 30 min equilibration was allowed before any experimental intervention , at which time the diagonal artery was occluded for 20 min and then reperfused . all arrhythmias were defined and quantified in accordance with the lambeth convention . regional wall thickening was examined by a pulsed doppler dimension system . no significant differences were observed in hemodynamic variables between the two groups ; however , rabbits treated with a lrf demonstrated greater regional wall thickening ( lrf group : 17 + / - 0.9 % , control group : 11 + / - 0.3 % , p less than 0.01 ) , as well as significant improvement in the frequency of ventricular arrhythmias ( lrf group : 12.5 % , control group : 47.2 % , p less than 0.01 ) . the data suggest that lrf may help prevent arrhythmias , and preserve left ventricular contraction , during and after intracoronary thrombolysis . 
development of a small caliber biologic vascular graft : evaluation of its antithrombogenicity and the early healing process . the authors previously showed that a small caliber xenograft using our crosslinking technique was applicable to aortocoronary bypass grafting . in this study of the graft , the antithrombogenicity and healing process was evaluated at an early stage after implantation . fresh sheep carotid artery ( 3mm id ) was obtained and cross-linked with polyepoxy compounds , and then used as a small caliber vascular graft . the graft was white and soft . six cm segments of the graft were implanted into the carotid arteries bilaterally in nine dogs . sodium heparin was given during the surgery , but no anticoagulant was used postoperatively . fifteen grafts from eight dogs were removed from 1 hr to 30 days after implantation , and 13 of 15 grafts were found to be patent . two grafts , one at 3 days , and the other at 14 days , were occluded . the anastomotic area of the occluded grafts felt hard when touched from the outside . in one dog , the grafts were shown angiographically to be patent at 14 days after implantation , and this dog was kept for long-term observation . macroscopically , no thrombus was observed on any of the patent grafts . microscopically , the inner surface near the anastomotic lines was covered with endothelial cells , and infiltration of fibroblasts was observed from the outside 7 days after implantation . no foreign body reactions were seen around the graft . after 30 days of implantation , a thin layer of plasma protein at the middle of the graft was observed by scanning electron microscopy ( sem ) . from these observations , it was concluded that the grafts exhibited satisfactory early antithrombogenicity and healing after implantation . 
proliferation and substrate effects on endothelial cell thrombogenicity . the effects of the cellular differentiation status and the adhesive-substrate on endothelial cell function in cell culture were measured with an enzyme based assay of surface thrombogenicity . a solid plastic , microporous polymeric , and fibronectin ( fn ) treated microporous polymeric were used as substrates for growth of endothelial cells . the microporous and fn treated synthetic substrates have been shown to aid in the induction of cellular differentiation mechanisms . cells were studied under proliferative and nonproliferative growth conditions . the thrombogenicity of the surface created by the endothelial cell monolayers under various experimental conditions was determined using an enzyme based assay of fibrin deposition . actively proliferating cells on the solid plastic substrate produced the most thrombogenic surface , while confluent endothelial cell monolayers grown on fn treated microporous substrate were the least thrombogenic surfaces . these data suggest that endothelial cell surface thrombogenicity is under substrate control , and also related to the cellular differentiation status . these findings are being used to design a novel approach to the small diameter synthetic vascular graft problem . 
effect of complement and arachidonic acid pathway inhibition on white blood cell count and deposition on vascular grafts . to determine the role of complement and arachidonic acid metabolites in the decrease in peripheral white blood cell count ( pwbc ) observed with graft implantation , dacron aortic grafts were implanted in control rabbits ( group i , n = 13 ) , or rabbits pretreated with cobra venom factor ( 80 u/kg ) to deplete complement ( group ii , n = 13 ) , indomethacin ( 2.5 mg/kg ) to inhibit cyclooxygenase ( group iii , n = 7 ) , or diethylcarbamazine ( dec , 90 mg/kg ) to inhibit leukotriene synthesis ( group iv , n = 7 ) . pwbc was measured 15 min and 1 hr after graft implantation . after graft removal , the wbc count on grafts ( gwbc ) was determined by light microscopy ( lm ) and scanning electron microscopy ( sem ) . one hr after graft implantation , pwbc decreased significantly in groups i-iv to 46 % , 52 % , 40 % , and 45 % of preoperative pwbc , respectively . there was no significant difference among the groups . lm revealed gwbc per 63x field of 8.0 , 12.3 , 5.8 , and 6.8 in groups i-iv , respectively . similarly , sem showed gwbc per 2000x field of 2.5 , 5.6 , 0.7 , and 1.5 in groups i-iv , respectively . sem gwbc was significantly greater in group ii than i ( p less than 0.01 ) , and significantly less in group iii than i ( p less than 0.05 ) . results suggested that complement and arachidonic acid pathways alone do not affect the fall in pwbc , but may influence gwbc . 
recombinant human erythropoietin does not increase clotting in vascular accesses . the incidence of vascular access clotting was evaluated over 5.25 years . the first 32 months served as a control period . during the second period of 31 months , recombinant human erythropoietin ( epoetin ) was used for an average duration of 13 months ( range , 2-32 months ) in 79 patients . the overall incidence of vascular access clotting decreased from a monthly rate of 0.06 to 0.03 events per patient-month over the 5 year period . distribution of the number of events per patient did not differ between the two periods , with 55 % to 60 % of patients having no clotting episode . patients with recurrent clotting ( two or more events ) accounted for 68 % of episodes . during the second period , there were no differences in the incidence of vascular access clotting in epoetin treated patients vs untreated patients ( 0.38 events per patient-year vs. 0.46 events per patient-year , both slightly lower than in period 1 [ 0.52 events per patient-year ] ) . it is concluded that epoetin does not increase vascular access clotting . 
the effect of established and gestational diabetes on pregnancy outcome . objective -- to study the prevalence and type of glucose intolerance in pregnancy and the effect of different types on perinatal mortality and fetal size . design -- a prospective case-control study with data collected by patient interview and examination of all available records during a 16-months period between 1984 and 1986 . setting -- a large maternity hospital in kuwait where diabetes in pregnancy is common . subjects -- the cases were a consecutive sample of 731 women , delivered during the study period , recorded in the labour ward register as being diabetic or having abnormal glucose tolerance , the control group was formed from the next woman in the register ( provided she was not known to be diabetic ) . main outcome measures -- type of diabetes followed the who classification , with subdivision depending on level of fasting plasma glucose . type of perinatal death was examined in detail and birthweight centile calculated . results -- of the 731 cases , 22 % were established diabetics , most were treated with oral hypoglycaemic drugs before pregnancy and insulin during pregnancy . of those discovered during pregnancy , 43 % were classified as gestational diabetes and the remainder as impaired glucose tolerance . overall , 50 % of cases were treated with insulin . established diabetics had a perinatal mortality rate nearly four times greater than non diabetics ( rr , 3.7 , 95 % ci 2.6 to 6.4 ) and for gestational diabetics rr was 2.0 95 % ci 1.2 to 3.7 ) . unexplained deaths were particularly common , both in established diabetics ( rr , 18.4 , 95 % ci 3.9 to 85.7 ) and in gestational diabetics ( rr , 13.4 , 95 % ( ci 2.9 to 61.6 ) . cases with impaired glucose tolerance had no stillbirths and had a lower perinatal loss than the controls , though this was not statistically significant . heavier babies were seen in all case groups compared with controls , though the impaired glucose tolerance group had lower birthweights than the other two case groups . conclusions -- type 2 diabetes was found to be common , most cases being diagnosed in pregnancy . under the conditions found in kuwait , diabetes , in the sense of a raised fasting glucose , is accompanied by a high rate of perinatal loss from unexplained stillbirth . this applies whether the condition was present before pregnancy or was discovered during pregnancy . fetal macrosomia was also common in both situations . impaired glucose tolerance , where fasting levels remain normal , does not appear to increase fetal loss , but may be associated with fetal macrosomia . as these women age they are likely to develop overt diabetes in the non-pregnant state , and subsequently to develop serious complications of this disease . improving glycaemic control , both during preg . 
large loop excision of the transformation zone ( lletz ) compared to carbon dioxide laser in the treatment of cin : a superior mode of treatment . a series of 199 patients with histologically confirmed cervical intraepithelial neoplasia ( cin ) grade ii or iii were allocated by hospital number to receive out-patient treatment by carbon dioxide laser vaporization or large loop excision of the transformation zone ( lletz ) . all patients received local anaesthesia . the women in the lletz group experienced less post operative haemorrhage , less discomfort , operative time was greatly reduced , and histological material was available for confirmation of the diagnosis . there was no significant difference in recurrence of cin after treatment between the two groups . at 6 month follow-up , recurrence rates of 8.2 % ( cin ii ) and 7.5 % ( cin iii ) were observed in the laser-group and 5 % ( cin ii ) and 5.3 % ( cin iii ) in the lletz group . further advantages of lletz are reduced capital expenditure and no hazard to the eyesight of the surgeon , but laser treatment is preferable in patients with widespread vaginal involvement . 
total perinatal wastage . a clarification of priorities . the pregnancy outcome of 16,971 women carrying 17,352 living fetuses after 16 weeks gestation was studied . as well as recording perinatal deaths , all losses before 28 weeks and up to one year after delivery were recorded to give a total perinatal wastage rate of 21.6 per 1000 fetuses alive at 16 weeks compared with a perinatal mortality rate ( stillbirths plus early neonatal deaths ) of 7.8 per 1000 births . all deaths were then classified according to pathological sub-groups . the concept of auditing perinatal care using perinatal mortality was then compared with that using total perinatal wastage . 
magnetic resonance imaging in idiopathic retroperitoneal fibrosis : measurement of t1 relaxation time . magnetic resonance imaging at 0.08 tesla was performed in nine patients with proven idiopathic retroperitoneal fibrosis . a total of 11 scans was performed . three patients were scanned before diagnosis ; one of these also had two follow-up scans . a further six patients were scanned a variable time after diagnosis and treatment . on each scan , a periaortic soft-tissue mass was readily identified , the distribution corresponding to that seen on computed tomography . there was no difference in the mean t1 relaxation time of the mass between patients scanned before diagnosis and those scanned after treatment . however , the patient followed with serial scans showed a progressive reduction in the t1 value of the mass with time . comparison with results obtained in patients with lymphoma suggests that the t1 values in retroperitoneal fibrosis are lower than in lymphoma , particularly non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . 
the relationship of " high risk " mammographic patterns to histological risk factors for development of cancer in the human breast . in the uk trial for the early detection of breast cancer in nottingham , 119 women were identified as having fibrocystic change with epithelial hyperplasia or in situ carcinoma . their mammograms were classified according to wolfe 's criteria and the corresponding histology for each patient was classified for degrees of epithelial hyperplasia , atypia and in situ neoplasia using page 's criteria . a control population of patients presenting for breast screening was used to represent the general population . no correlation was found between the four mammographic wolfe patterns , n1 , p1 , p2 and dy and histological evidence of epithelial hyperplasia , atypia or in situ carcinoma . a further study was carried out to determine histological features of wolfe pattern , using radiological examination of resected breast tissue . the variation in wolfe pattern was related to the distribution of fibrous and adipose tissue in the breast interlobular stroma and appeared to have no relationship to epithelial parenchymal content . this information does not support the hypothesis that radiographic densities of p2 and dy patterns correspond to high risk epithelial proliferation . 
the role of indium-labelled leukocyte imaging in pyrexia of unknown origin . indium-111-labeled white blood cell scanning is often used in the investigation of pyrexia of unknown origin ( puo ) to locate an otherwise occult source of sepsis . from a series of 166 white blood cell studies performed for sepsis , 28 cases of true puo were identified and reviewed . the sensitivity was 60 % and specificity 70 % , with a positive predictive value of 38 % and negative predictive value of 90 % . only 11 % of studies revealed a pyogenic cause for puo . these results are discussed and the potential role of gallium scanning in puo is raised . 
urinary tract dilatation in constipated children . abnormalities of the upper urinary tract were sought retrospectively in 180 children with constipation who had been investigated surgically over a 5-year period . of those in whom an intravenous urogram had been performed , the incidence of dilatation of the upper renal tract was high , but only 12 % of the patients with non-organic constipation had been so investigated . 
lack of late skin necrosis in man after high-dose irradiation using small field sizes : experiences of grid therapy . out of a total of 437 patients with superior vena caval syndrome or advanced malignancy , given single-dose grid radiotherapy , four survived to 7 years . the dose to the skin under each of the 77 holes in the grid was approximately 58 gy . the lack of skin necrosis in the total of 308 skin circles of 1 cm diameter among these survivors , compared with known necrosis rates in larger irradiated areas , implies that there is a marked field-size effect for late necrosis in small areas of irradiated skin . 
pancreatic ischaemia in experimental acute pancreatitis : mechanism , significance and therapy . much clinical and experimental evidence suggests that pancreatic ischaemia in the early phase of acute pancreatitis is important in the development of pancreatic necrosis . while depletion of intravascular volume has often been assumed to be the main circulatory defect , an additional disturbance of pancreatic microcirculation has been demonstrated experimentally . possible contributory mechanisms include chemical-induced vasoconstriction , direct injury of vessel wall , intravascular coagulation and increased endothelial permeability resulting in pancreatic oedema , haemoconcentration and impaired venous drainage . pancreatic ischaemia as a consequence of these local effects seems to be responsible for the transition of mild pancreatitis to parenchymal necrosis . in experimental models the beneficial effect of various drugs and of sympathetic blockade has been ascribed to an improvement in pancreatic perfusion . although effective volume therapy is generally accepted as the mainstay of conservative treatment in acute pancreatitis , the efficacy of different fluid preparations is still controversial , and simple fluid resuscitation has not been shown to prevent the development of parenchymal necrosis . the specific impairment of pancreatic microcirculation can not be prevented merely by replenishment of intravascular volume with crystalloids , albumin or plasma despite normalization of macrohaemodynamics . in contrast , partial replacement of blood by dextran preparations has been shown to increase pancreatic perfusion by improving blood fluidity . isovolaemic haemodilution in conjunction with conventional fluid therapy may provide a new and effective means of protecting the pancreas from secondary injury due to the early ischaemic phase of acute pancreatitis . 
reduced psychological morbidity after breast conservation . psychological morbidity was compared in 52 patients treated by mastectomy and 67 patients treated by lumpectomy for early breast cancer . an informal counselling service was provided for all patients . morbidity was measured at 6 , 9 and 12 months after surgery with two self-rating scales : the general health questionnaire and the leeds depression and anxiety scales . there was a significant excess of severe depression in the mastectomy group . in contrast to the findings of previous research , this result suggests that breast conservation reduces psychological morbidity . 
development and reversibility of t lymphocyte dysfunction in experimental obstructive jaundice this study evaluates the effect of experimental biliary obstruction by bile duct ligation ( bdl ) and biliary drainage on cell-mediated immunity in wistar rats . immune status has been assessed by a mitogen stimulation test of t lymphocytes with phytohaemagglutinin . animals were followed for up to 35 days after bdl . regression analysis showed a significant negative correlation between lymphocyte function and the period of jaundice ( correlation coefficient -0.57 , p less than 0.001 ) . following bdl for 21 days , groups of animals had internal biliary drainage for 7 , 14 and 28 days , and external drainage for 14 days . compared with obstructed animals , 14 days internal drainage was required to improve lymphocyte function ( p less than 0.05 ) . animals which had 14 days of external drainage had significantly lower lymphocyte stimulation than internal drainage animals ( p less than 0.05 ) . the results demonstrate that obstructive jaundice produces a progressive reduction of t lymphocyte function . this can be reversed by biliary drainage , internal drainage being more effective than external drainage . 
assessment of the biliary tract after liver transplantation : t tube cholangiography or iodida scanning . biliary tract obstruction or anastomotic leakage are common problems following liver transplantation . in a sequential study , 31 patients with a liver transplant were investigated by 99mtc-iodida ( iodida ) scanning and t tube cholangiography ( ttc ) and the results were compared with clinical outcome . seven patients had an extrahepatic biliary obstruction and one patient had a biliary leak . in the detection of biliary complications ttc and iodida scanning were similar in terms of sensitivity ( 63 per cent for both ) but ttc had a better specificity ( 79 per cent versus 60 per cent ) and accuracy ( 74 per cent versus 60 per cent ) than iodida scanning . when liver function was taken into account , the diagnostic efficacy of both tests in patients with bilirubin levels of less than 200 mumol/l was similar . with levels greater than 200 mumol/l there was a greater number of false positive results with iodida scanning ( 12 per cent versus 54 per cent ) . the only significant biliary leak was clearly detected by ttc but not iodida scanning . ttc remains the more effective way of evaluating the biliary tract after transplantation . iodida scanning has limited value when bilirubin levels are elevated , but may provide additional information about blood supply , hepatocyte function and intrahepatic cholestasis . 
extended hepatectomy for hepatocellular carcinoma . the results of extended hepatectomy in 25 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma performed over a 16 year period have been reviewed , analysed and compared with those of 144 patients who underwent lesser liver resection . five left and 20 right extended hepatectomies were performed for tumours ranging from 3 to 20 cm in diameter . seventeen ( 68 per cent ) of the patients had non-cirrhotic livers . the major postoperative complications were : haemorrhage in five cases , major bile duct injury in three , subphrenic abscess in two , liver failure in one and wound dehiscence in one . the 30-day ( operative ) mortality rate was 12 per cent and the median survival duration , including operative mortality , was 9.7 ( range 0.2-32 .1 ) months . the survival rate was 46 per cent at 1 year , 33 per cent at 2 years and 22 per cent at 3 years . the morbidity , mortality and survival data of extended hepatectomy were comparable with the results of lesser hepatic resections for hepatocellular carcinoma . we conclude that extended hepatectomy is a worthwhile operation for large hepatocellular carcinomas and a viable alternative to liver transplantation . 
effective intraperitoneal antiprotease therapy for taurocholate-induced pancreatitis in rats in canine pancreatitis , irreversible hypotension and death follow saturation of the antiprotease molecules in peritoneal exudate by activated proteolytic enzymes which are released from the pancreas . this study has examined , in rats with taurocholate-induced pancreatitis , the efficacy of removal of the peritoneal exudate by aspiration and a single lavage , followed by instillation of an exogenous antiprotease solution . instillation of human fresh frozen plasma , containing alpha 2-macroglobulin and alpha 1-antiprotease , was associated with the longest median survival . aprotinin , although possessing a much greater trypsin inhibitory capacity , just failed to significantly improve the median survival time compared with the control group . intraperitoneal antiprotease therapy is simple to perform , has a beneficial effect on survival time in this model and merits investigation in man . 
prediction of outcome in acute pancreatitis : a comparative study of apache ii , clinical assessment and multiple factor scoring systems . the apache ii severity of disease classification system has been examined prospectively in 160 patients with acute pancreatitis . using clinical and simple laboratory data apache ii was able to provide useful discrimination between uncomplicated , complicated and fatal attacks within a few hours of admission . peak apache ii scores ( recorded during the first 3 days ) had a prognostic accuracy similar to the multiple factor scoring systems , but then incurred a similar delay . patients could be graded according to their risk of death or of developing a major complication ; no deaths occurred in patients with a peak apache ii score less than 10 . apache ii can be repeated daily , uncomplicated attacks demonstrating falling scores in association with clinical improvement , in contrast to the rising scores associated with clinical deterioration in those dying early . apache ii appears to reflect any continuing disease activity and may prove a useful means of monitoring the course of the illness and response to therapy . 
gallbladder surgery following cholecystlithotripsy : suggested guidelines for treatment twenty-three of 229 symptomatic patients undergoing cholecystlithotripsy underwent surgical intervention : 22 of the patients had cholecystectomy performed ( five also undergoing choledochotomy ) and one patient had a cholecystostomy . of these 23 patients , five were lithotripsy failures , five developed acute pancreatitis , one had acute cholecystitis , and one had cholangitis . one patient had her gallbladder removed incidentally at the time of surgery for a bleeding gastric ulcer . ten patients underwent surgery for recurrent biliary pain , probably related to fragment passage via the cystic duct . we suggest that up to 16 of these 23 patients did not necessarily require cholecystectomy , i.e. five patients with pancreatitis , one patient with cholangitis and ten patients with recurrent biliary colic . conservative and/or endoscopic management may be successful in the first instance to allow further treatment with lithotripsy in the majority of patients . if , however , the expertise to perform endoscopic sphincterotomy is not available or the patient declines further lithotripsy , then resort to surgery may be necessary . we propose that it is the responsibility of the management team in charge of the lithotripsy unit to inform both the patient and the referring clinicians of the possible side-effects and outcome of treatment in an attempt to avoid unnecessary surgical procedures . 
surgical presentation of kawasaki disease ( mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome ) . five patients with kawasaki disease ( mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome ) are reported whose varied presentations included acute abdominal pain , peripheral arterial aneurysms , digital gangrene and sterile pyuria and whose presenting pathology ranged from hydrops of the gallbladder to enteric pseudo-obstruction . as the complications of the disease can usually be managed without resort to surgery , which is associated with a mortality rate of up to 25 per cent , the recognition of kawasaki disease will prevent hazardous and unnecessary laparotomy . 
intraluminal pressure adjacent to left colonic anastomoses . a cumulative total of 89 h of pressure data was acquired from both sides of a left colonic anastomosis in 15 patients over a median period of 7 postoperative study days . patients had a colonic ileus lasting 3-10 days and during this proximal and distal inactivity the intraluminal pressure remained within 6 mmhg of atmospheric pressure . after recovery of activity , pressures proximal to the anastomosis in excess of 10 mmhg occurred during less than 1 per cent of the recording time . distal peak pressures were significantly elevated with respect to the proximal site ( p less than 0.001 ) . two-thirds of the distal pressures recorded were between 10 and 20 mmhg and 98 per cent were less than 50 mmhg ; the peak distal pressure was 90 mmhg . four patients had distal repetitive tonic contractions creating a pressure difference across the anastomosis with a mean of 20 mmhg and a peak of 45 mmhg . each contraction persisted for 15-20 min . intraluminal pressures are unlikely to play a role in anastomotic dehiscence . 
effect of hydrocele on testis and spermatogenesis . one hundred and twenty cases of big unilateral hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis testis have been studied to ascertain the effect on the structure and function of the testis , taking the normal side as control . there was no pressure effect from the hydrocele on the structure of the testis in 70 per cent , a flattening of testis in 22 per cent , and atrophy of testis in 8 per cent of cases . there was partial arrest of spermatogenesis in 10 per cent and total arrest of spermatogenesis in 8 per cent of cases . the remaining 82 per cent showed normal spermatogenesis . 
new isotopic technique for detecting prosthetic arterial graft infection : 99mtc-hexametazime-labelled leucocyte imaging . early and accurate detection of prosthetic arterial graft infection is important because this serious complication of vascular surgery carries high morbidity and mortality rates . this report describes the use of a new method of isotopic imaging to detect graft infection using 99mtc-hexametazime-labelled leucocytes . seventeen patients with potentially infected arterial grafts were imaged in addition to routine investigations but were managed according to our normal surgical practice . 99mtc-imaging was positive in eight patients with proven graft infection and falsely positive in one patient with a groin haematoma ( 89 per cent specificity ) . there were no false negatives ( 100 per cent sensitivity ) after an average follow-up of 6 months ( range 3-9 months ) . this technique has proved a reliable and rapid method of confirming graft infection . 
duodenogastric reflux and gastric histology after cholecystectomy with or without sphincteroplasty . sixteen patients who had undergone cholecystectomy plus sphincteroplasty , 14 cholecystectomized patients and ten control patients were studied to evaluate whether differences existed in duodenogastric reflux and whether these were related to morphological damage of the gastric mucosa . duodenogastric bile reflux during fasting was evaluated by measuring the concentration of total bile acids ( by an enzymatic method ) and single bile acids in the gastric juice by high performance liquid chromatography . the damage was evaluated histologically by systematic endoscopic biopsy of the antrum and body of the stomach . there was a statistically significant difference in fasting bile reflux between the three groups ( kruskal-wallis test , p less than 0.001 ) , and the group that underwent cholecystectomy plus sphincteroplasty had a significantly higher median value than the cholecystectomized group ( p less than 0.05 ) and the control group ( p less than 0.01 ) . the distribution of chronic antral atrophic and superficial gastritis was different in the three groups ( chi 2 test , p less than 0.005 ) . chronic atrophic gastritis was associated with cholecystectomy plus sphincteroplasty ( p less than 0.01 ) , while chronic superficial gastritis was more frequent in cholecystectomized patients . these results suggest that there may be more duodenogastric reflux after cholecystectomy plus sphincteroplasty than after cholecystectomy alone , and that there may be a correlation between the amount of duodenogastric reflux and the severity of mucosal damage . 
plasma therapy for severe hemolytic-uremic syndrome in children in atlantic canada . clinical reports have suggested that therapy with fresh frozen plasma is a useful adjunct in the management of the hemolytic-uremic syndrome ( hus ) . we reviewed the charts of 36 children with severe hus who were treated at the izaac walton killam hospital for children , halifax , over 10 years to assess the effectiveness of plasma therapy . all children who required specific supportive therapy for renal dysfunction , hemolysis or serious extrarenal complications were included . we compared the outcome of 18 children who received plasma therapy from 1982 to 1987 with that of 18 children who did not . the two groups were similar with regard to the severity of hus , the length of hospital stay , the duration of renal dysfunction and the incidence of disease-related complications , such as seizures , enterocolitis and cardiomyopathy . at discharge the prevalence of hypertension was higher in the plasma therapy group than in the control group . plasma therapy did not demonstrate any benefit that would outweigh the risk of fluid overload , hyperproteinemia and transmission of viral infection . 
cerebrospinal norepinephrine concentrations and the duration of epidural analgesia this study was performed to determine whether the addition of norepinephrine to local anaesthetics prolongs epidural analgesia in man . in addition , cerebrospinal fluid norepinephrine ( ne ) concentrations were measured . in the first part of the study , epidural catheters were inserted in 14 patients before herniotomy . mepivacaine , 1.5 per cent ( 0.35 ml.kg-1 ) , was administered and norepinephrine ( 5 micrograms.ml-1 ) was added in seven patients . the duration of anaesthesia was prolonged from 54 + / - 11 min to 83 + / - 12 min ( p less than 0.05 ) and csf ne concentrations increased from 68 + / - 12 pg.ml-1 to 336 + / - 85 pg.ml-1 in the ne group ( p less than 0.01 ) . in the second part , eight patients with herpetic neuralgia received epidural analgesia at the fourth to eighth thoracic interspace , using bupivacaine 0.25 per cent , with and without ne . the csf ne concentrations in this group were greater than in the surgical patients before operation and increased from 254 + / - 58 to 406 + / - 58 pg.ml-1 30 min after administration of bupivacaine with ne . the duration of pain relief was prolonged with ne . these results suggest that adding ne to local anaesthetics prolongs epidural analgesia . moreover , ne concentrations in surgical patients increased to levels similar to those found in patients suffering from herpetic analgesia . this suggests that the increase of csf ne in chronic pain states has an antinociceptive effect . 
alpha 1-acid glycoprotein and the binding of lidocaine in children with congenital heart disease . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of congenital heart disease ( chd ) on the serum concentrations of alpha 1-acid glycoprotein ( alpha 1-agp ) and the serum binding of lidocaine . thirteen children with acyanotic chd and 12 children with cyanotic chd were studied and compared with 28 children without heart disease ( control ) . the mean ( + / - sd ) serum concentration of alpha 1-agp , as determined by radial immunodiffusion , did not differ significantly among the three groups . five minutes after administration of 1.5 mg.kg-1 intravenous lidocaine , the free fraction of lidocaine correlated inversely and linearly with the serum concentration of alpha 1-agp in children with acyanotic chd ( r2 = 0.74 ; p less than 0.001 ) cyanotic chd ( r2 = 0.57 ; p less than 0.005 ) , and control ( r2 = 0.63 ; p less than 0.001 ) . the slopes and intercepts of the linear regressions did not differ significantly among the three groups . we conclude that the serum concentration of alpha 1-agp in children with chd does not differ quantitatively or qualitatively from that in children without chd . 
post-cannulation radial artery aneurysm -- a rare complication . the following case report describes an expanding aneurysmal dilatation of the radial artery which developed 17 days following cannulation . possible causes of this complication are : abnormal state of the vessel wall , multiple attempts at cannulation , and haematoma or infection at cannulation site . other major and minor sequelae following arterial cannulation are reviewed . 
amyloidosis associated bleeding diatheses in the surgical patient . the coagulopathies associated with amyloidosis have not been widely appreciated . we encountered a patient with amyloidosis and mildly abnormal coagulation studies who presented for an emergency laparotomy for acute bowel obstruction . upon gentle manipulation of the bowel , an unexpected bleeding diathesis was manifested by the formation of several large haematomas resulting in a large amount of blood loss ( approximately 800 ml ) . numerous defects of platelet function and coagulation have been associated with amyloidosis , including abnormal platelet aggregation , increased vascular fragility , factor ix and x deficiencies , decreased levels of alpha-2-plasmin inhibitor , and increased levels of plasminogen . intraoperative therapy for our patient included the rapid administration of four units of fresh frozen plasma and ten units of platelet concentrate . a review of the pathology and therapeutic modalities for this potentially life-threatening complication is presented . 
nicardipine reduces the cardio-respiratory toxicity of intravenously administered bupivacaine in rats . the purpose of our study was to examine the effect of intravenous ( iv ) nicardipine pretreatment ( 30 micrograms.kg-1 ) , given three minutes before an iv bolus of bupivacaine to determine its effect on the incidence of fatal bupivacaine cardio-respiratory toxicity in adult male sprague dawley rats anaesthetized with intraperitoneal pentobarbital . fifty rats were divided into four groups . groups i and ii ( n = 10 each ) received 3.5 mg.kg-1 0.5 per cent bupivacaine and groups iii and iv ( n = 15 each ) received 5.0 mg.kg-1 , 0.5 per cent bupivacaine . groups i and iii received pretreatment with normal saline before bupivacaine , whereas groups ii and iv were given pretreatment with nicardipine , 30 mg.kg-1 . there was no difference in the incidence of survival between the nicardipine pretreatment group and the saline placebo pretreatment group given 3.5 mg.kg-1 , 0.5 per cent bupivacaine ( no fatalities in either group ) . however , there was significant protection by nicardipine pretreatment in the group given 5 mg.kg-1 , 0.5 per cent bupivacaine ( 13 of 15 survived , compared with only 4 of 15 in the saline pretreatment group , p less than 0.001 ) . in conclusion , our data demonstrate that in rats given 0.5 per cent bupivacaine , 5 mg.kg-1 , nicardipine pretreatment protected against fatal cardio-respiratory toxicity . 
the indian experience with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis . a study of 58 consecutive indian infants operated for congenital hypertrophic pyloric stenosis revealed an accentuated male predominance in the incidence of the disease and far less preoperative hemetemesis as compared to that in their western counterparts . ' pyloric tumor ' was palpable in 89 % of cases . only 34.5 % of these infants were first born . postoperative vomiting occurred in 13.8 % of patients and wound sepsis was not encountered . air contrast radiography confirmed the diagnosis in clinically doubtful cases . 
edrophonium provocative test in noncardiac chest pain . evaluation of testing techniques . edrophonium chloride is used frequently as a provocative agent in the assessment of noncardiac chest pain ( nccp ) . however , the optimum dose and most appropriate method of interpreting test results is controversial . we studied 150 consecutive nccp patients and 50 age-matched controls who alternately received either 80 micrograms/kg or 10 mg intravenous bolus doses of edrophonium preceded by saline placebo injections . distal esophageal pressures were measured before and after drug injection in response to ten 5-cc wet swallows . following 10 mg of edrophonium , 33 % of patients and 4 % of controls reported chest pain , while 29 % of patients and no controls receiving the 80 micrograms/kg dose complained of chest pain . amplitude changes after either dose were not significantly different for all comparisons , but the duration of response did distinguish the two doses in patients with chest pain . a significantly greater ( p = 0.01 ) increase in distal contraction duration occurred after 10 mg ( 74 + / - 12 % ; + / - se ) compared to 80 micrograms/kg dose ( 43 + / - 6 % ) . however , individual responses to the two doses overlapped considerably . if a positive test is redefined to include both chest pain and manometric changes that are significantly different from controls , the positivity rate changes drastically ; 33 % to 9 % in the 10-mg group and 30 % to 3 % in the 80-micrograms/kg group . side effects were similar between doses , but there was a significant ( p = 0.02 ) linear relationship between intensity of side effects and the edrophonium dose per kilogram of body weight . 
patterns of dyspepsia in patients with no clinical evidence of organic diseases . we studied 2000 dyspeptic patients with no obvious signs of organic disease at their first examination , in order to ( 1 ) verify how many diagnoses of idiopathic dyspepsia had really been made after exhaustive diagnostic procedures and ( 2 ) evaluate the diagnostic power of the symptoms in distinguishing organic from idiopathic dyspepsia . this latter was considered only when no structural abnormalities were found . in all the other cases , a distinction was made between " related " and " associated " organic dyspepsia according to whether or not there was a certain relationship between the abnormalities and the dyspeptic symptoms . the patients were referred to us as follows : ( 1 ) spontaneously , ( 2 ) sent by physicians collaborating with us , ( 3 ) referred to our open access endoscopic service . the results show the frequency of idiopathic dyspepsia was 26 % , whereas associated structural abnormalities were present in 45.4 % . obvious organic causes of dyspepsia were seen in 28.6 % ( 24 % benign and 4.6 % malignant diseases ) . when considered separately , no symptom alone allows a correct diagnosis . the simultaneous evaluation of the symptoms with linear discriminant analysis distinguishes between idiopathic and organic dyspeptic patients in about 70 % of the cases . a higher discrimination percentage in about 70 % of the cases . a higher discrimination percentage could probably be obtained using a wider range of clinical parameters and/or a more complex statistical analysis of the interrelationships which exist between the clinical symptoms and the final diagnosis . 
pyloric deformation from peptic disease . radiographic evidence for incompetence rather than obstruction . we have used double-contrast radiographic techniques to clarify what changes in the configuration and movements of the gastroduodenal junction result when peptic lesions involve the distal gastric segment between the proximal ( ppl ) and the distal pyloric muscle loop ( dpl ) . among 50 cases of pyloric ulceration diagnosed during a four-year study period , 18 cases fulfilled all study criteria . ulcers maintained a consistent location with regard to the muscular structures of the pylorus , and by affecting these structures , led to many strange deformations of the gastric outlet including permanent pseudodiverticula and reversal of pyloric angulation . the most common site for peptic lesions in the pyloric segment was the protuberance of the lesser curvature called the pyloric torus ; many torus lesions extended into and destroyed the dpl . this led to widening of the gastric outlet and radiographic evidence of increased duodenogastric reflux . pyloric closure was further impaired in this setting because the mucosa no longer prolapsed into the gastric outlet and did not occlude the pyloric lumen as it normally does . less common lesions involved the greater curvature and the ppl . in one patient , scarring of the ppl led to an antral web and gastric hyperperistalsis . this was the only patient who required operation for chronic gastric outlet obstruction . one-third of the 18 patients had reflux esophagitis in addition to peptic pyloric disease . in most patients without additional ulcerogenic risk factors , treatment with antisecretory agents led to the healing of ulcer craters . we conclude that the morphologic and functional changes of the gastric outlet caused by peptic lesions depend , in part , on the effect the ulcer has on the underlying pyloric musculature . 
endoscopic comparison of cimetidine and sucralfate for prevention of naproxen-induced acute gastroduodenal injury . effect of scoring method . nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug-induced gastroduodenal mucosal damage observed endoscopically is usually categorized as hemorrhages , erosions , or ulcerations . we undertook this study to determine whether the injury produced by a commonly prescribed nsaid , naproxen , could be reduced by cotherapy with sucralfate or cimetidine and to determine how dependent the differences in the degree of protection against mucosal injury measured were on the scoring system used . four groups of 20 healthy volunteers with endoscopically normal gastric and duodenal mucosa received naproxen ( 500 mg twice a day ) plus cimetidine ( 300 mg four times a day or 400 mg twice a day ) , sucralfate ( 1 g four times a day ) , or placebo for seven days . after seven days of therapy , a second endoscopy was performed . separate scoring systems were used for the presence of hemorrhages , erosions , and a combination of both types of injury . there were significantly fewer mucosal hemorrhages present when naproxen and cimetidine were administered than when naproxen was administered with placebo or sucralfate ( placebo vs 300 mg cimetidine , p = 0.04 , and placebo vs 400 mg cimetidine , p = 0.006 , placebo vs sucralfate , p = 0.26 ) . both cimetidine dosages resulted in significantly fewer hemorrhages than were present following cotherapy of naproxen and sucralfate ( p less than 0.05 ) . in contrast , there was no discernible difference in the mucosal injury between placebo and any drug or between any two active therapies when the injury was evaluated based on the presence of gastric erosions . 
primary peritoneal sarcoidosis . a 14-year-old male was admitted for the evaluation of tense exudative ascites . despite thorough evaluation , the diagnosis remained cryptic until peritoneoscopy revealed diffuse studding of the entire visualized peritoneum with multiple miliary nodules , and peritoneal biopsy demonstrated multiple noncaseating epithelioid granulomas . after other causes were excluded , a diagnosis of sarcoidosis was considered and confirmed with classic endobronchial findings at bronchoscopy . involvement of the peritoneum with sarcoidosis is rare and , to our knowledge , only one other case describes this as the initial manifestation of this disease . 
esophageal adenocarcinoma in a patient with surgically treated achalasia . although squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus occurs with increased incidence in primary achalasia , esophageal adenocarcinoma has been considered rare in this condition . we report a patient with long-standing achalasia in whom adenocarcinoma of the esophagus occurred many years after heller esophagomyotomy , presumably related to barrett 's esophagus complicating gastro-esophageal reflux disease . 
massive hepatic infarction in systemic lupus erythematosus . liver disease in systemic lupus erythematosus , as demonstrated by abnormal histopathology , is rare and usually mild ; typically , this hepatic disease is of chronic nature and not related to a hypercoagulable state . a patient is described in whom life-threatening hypercoagulability in association with systemic lupus erythematosus resulted in extensive liver infarction . follow-up radionuclide liver scintigraphy suggested that regenerative recovery in the infarcted areas of the liver may be delayed or absent , but there was no evident functional hepatic impairment . 
closure of refractory perineal crohn 's lesion . integration of hyperbaric oxygen into case management . a case is reported in which a comprehensive program of hyperbaric oxygen ( hbo ) , surgical debridement and reconstruction , and continuing medical management resulted in complete and sustained closure of an extensive perineal crohn 's lesion refractory to conventional medical and surgical management . it is emphasized that in this case healing occurred in the setting of previous removal of all diseased intestinal tissue and only with the combined use of all three treatment modalities . hbo may be a useful adjunct in the therapy of large nonhealing perineal lesions post-proctocolectomy in patients who are unresponsive to metronidazole or to immunosuppressant therapy or who experience limiting side effects from continued medical therapy . 
anorexia in older patients : its meaning and management . in the elderly , clinically significant weight loss is closely related to malnutrition , the causes of which can proliferate in this age group . clinicians must therefore keep a wide range of possible etiologies in mind when evaluating these patients . these fall into the general categories of social , psychological , medical , and age-related . isolating the cause will direct what is often simple , effective , and , perhaps , life-saving therapy . 
epstein-barr virus associated oesophageal ulcers in aids . epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) associated ulceration has not previously been included in the differential diagnosis of oesophageal ulcers in aids . we report five cases of oesophageal ulceration in homosexual men with advanced human immunodeficiency virus infection in whom this was considered to be the most likely cause . dna in situ hybridisation studies showed ebv in biopsy material from three of four patients with oesophageal ulcers and in none of three controls . of other viruses studied , only human papillomavirus was present , and this was found in both patients and control subjects . these findings support the hypothesis that ebv is an aetiological factor in some cases of aids-associated oesophageal ulceration . 
evaluation of 13c-urea breath test in the detection of helicobacter pylori and in monitoring the effect of tripotassium dicitratobismuthate in non-ulcer dyspepsia sixty nine patients with non-ulcer dyspepsia have been studied with endoscopy , biopsy , quick urease ( clo ) test , helicobacter pylori culture , and the 13c-urea breath test before and after treatment with tripotassium dicitratobismuthane ( denol ) two tablets twice daily for four weeks . symptoms of non-ulcer dyspepsia were recorded using a standard questionnaire . using h pylori culture as the gold standard , the sensitivity of the 13c-urea breath test was 90 % , the specificity 98.6 % , and the accuracy 94.8 % with a positive predictive value of 98.2 % and a negative predictive value of 92.5 % . conversion rate from h pylori positive to negative status after treatment with tripotassium dicitratobismuthate was 17.9 % . symptoms of non-ulcer dyspepsia improved appreciably after treatment irrespective of h pylori status . the 13c-urea breath test is an accurate research tool suitable for serial testing and population surveys . 
evidence for motor neuropathy and reduced filling of the rectum in chronic intractable constipation . subtotal colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis is now frequently offered to patients with slow transit constipation who have severe symptoms and no response to more conventional medical treatment . if this operation is to be successful , the underlying problem should be delay in the progress of contents through the colon but no mechanical or functional obstruction in the small bowel or rectum . we have used a recently described technique of prolonged ambulant manometry and electromyography to investigate anorectal function in these patients . pressure data were collected using a 2 mm diameter intrarectal probe carrying microtransducers , and external anal sphincter activity was assessed by a pair of silver-silver chloride surface electrodes . fourteen control subjects and eight patients with colonic inertia were studied . sampling reflexes , indicative of rectal filling , occurred at mean ( sem ) rates of 7.4 ( 2.0 ) / hour in controls but were significantly reduced in patients ( 2.4 ( 0.3 ) / hour ( p less than 0.01 ] . recurrent rectal motor complexes were seen to occur in both groups at intervals of 76 ( 1.8 ) minutes in controls and 64.9 ( 7.2 ) minutes in patients ( p less than 0.1 ) , and with amplitudes of 42.4 ( 2.1 ) mmhg and 9.2 ( 0.7 ) mmhg ( p less than 0.001 ) , respectively . external sphincter electromyographic spike activity did not differ between groups . our results support the concept of reduced transit of faeces to the rectum from the colon over a 24 hour period in slow transit constipation and suggest that a motor neuropathy may also be present in the rectum . 
incidence of large oesophageal varices in patients with cirrhosis : application to prophylaxis of first bleeding . because several studies have suggested that beta blockers are effective in the prophylaxis of first variceal bleeding in cirrhosis , screening for oesophageal varices might be appropriate . we prospectively studied 84 cirrhotic patients without obvious evidence of large oesophageal varices and previous bleeding during a mean follow up of 16 months . at entry to the study 41 patients had no oesophageal varices and in 43 these were grade 1 . the subsequent percentages of patients without large oesophageal varices were 74 % at one year and 52 % at two years . univariate analysis showed that a longer duration of cirrhosis ( p less than 0.05 ) and grade 1 oesophageal varices at entry ( p less than 0.001 ) were predictive factors for the occurrence of large oesophageal varices , whereas , multivariate analysis showed that the initial size of the oesophageal varices ( p less than 0.001 ) , a high initial child-pugh score , and a smaller improvement in child-pugh score during the study were independent risk factors . among patients with grades 0 and 1 oesophageal varices at the start of the study the proportions with large oesophageal varices at two years were 31 % and 70 % respectively . we have calculated that , accepting a maximum risk of first bleeding of 10 % without prophylactic treatment , a patient without oesophageal varices should be screened endoscopically every other year , while a patient with grade 1 disease should benefit from one annual upper gastrointestinal endoscopy . 
the effect of intravenous fixed-dose heparin during total hip arthroplasty on the incidence of deep-vein thrombosis . a randomized , double-blind trial in patients operated on with epidural anesthesia and controlled hypotension . heparin was given in fixed doses intravenously during unilateral primary total hip-replacement operations in a prospective , double-blind trial to assess the effect on the incidence of deep-vein thrombosis . one hundred and fifty patients were randomly assigned to one of two groups before the operation . twenty-four patients were excluded from the study , leaving 126 patients . group i consisted of sixty-six patients who received saline solution intravenously , and group ii comprised sixty patients who received heparin . all patients had epidural anesthesia with controlled hypotension . fixed doses of heparin were administered five minutes before the operative incision was made and every thirty minutes throughout the operation . mean arterial pressures were maintained at between fifty and sixty millimeters of mercury in all patients . ascending venography was done on the seventh day after the operation . the incidence of deep-vein thrombosis was 24 per cent ( sixteen of sixty-six patients ) in group i and 8 per cent ( five of sixty patients ) in group ii ; the difference is significant ( p = 0.03 ) . the intraoperative loss of blood averaged 220 + / - 79 milliliters in group i compared with 269 + / - 109 milliliters in group ii . an average of less than one unit of blood was transfused for each patient in each group . postoperatively , there was no difference between the groups with regard to the amount of drainage that was collected in a hemovac device or the values for hematocrit . 
total hip arthroplasty with cement . a long-term radiographic analysis in patients who are older than fifty and younger than fifty years . the long-term performance of a total of 712 charnley and sth prostheses was evaluated as a function of the patient 's age ( older than fifty years or younger than fifty years ) and of the underlying disease ( osteoarthrosis , rheumatoid arthritis , or avascular necrosis ) . in patients who were older than fifty years , there were lower incidences of continuous cement-bone radiolucency about the acetabular component ( p = 0.04 ) , wear of the polyethylene acetabular cup ( p = 0.03 ) , and resorption of the calcar ( p = 0.03 ) . however , larger percentages of younger patients had rheumatoid arthritis or avascular necrosis . in the cohort of patients who had osteoarthrosis , the performance of the prosthesis did not differ significantly between older and younger patients ; therefore we attributed the differences that were observed to the disease -- that is , to rheumatoid arthritis or avascular necrosis . 
hazards of internal fixation in the treatment of slipped capital femoral epiphysis . we reviewed the records of 202 patients ( 308 hips ) in whom a slipped capital femoral epiphysis had been fixed with pins or screws . a serious complication that was directly related to the use of internal fixation developed in eighty hips ( 26 per cent ) . the rate of complications in the 202 patients was 40 per cent . in thirty-six ( 18 per cent ) of the 202 patients , an additional procedure was done to correct a pin-related complication . forty-one hip joints had been penetrated by a pin . other complications included avascular necrosis ( fourteen hips ) , chondrolysis ( nine ) , fracture ( one ) , infection ( one ) , further slippage ( one ) , sciatic-nerve injury ( one ) , and breakage of a screw ( eight ) . ways of decreasing the incidence of complications of fixation were explored . 
insulin-like growth factor i expression by tumors of neuroectodermal origin with the t ( 11 ; 22 ) chromosomal translocation . a potential autocrine growth factor . expression of insulin-like growth factor i ( igf-i ) mrna by some tumor cell lines of neuroectodermal origin has been described . to further explore the significance of igf-i mrna expression in these tumors , a more extensive analysis was performed . most ( 9 of 10 ) neuroectodermal tumor cell lines with a t ( 11 ; 22 ) translocation ( primitive neuroectodermal tumor [ pnet ] , ewing 's sarcoma , esthesioneuroblastoma ) expressed igf-i mrna , whereas 0 of 15 cell lines without the translocation ( pnet , neuroblastoma ) expressed igf-i . furthermore , inasmuch as all neuroblastoma ( 12 of 12 ) cell lines examined expressed igf-ii rna , the pattern of igf expression could distinguish between these closely related tumors . chp-100 , a pnet cell line with the t ( 11 ; 22 ) translocation , was shown to secrete both igf-i protein and an igf binding protein , igfbp-2 . this cell line also expressed the type i igf receptor mrna , and blockade of this receptor by a monoclonal antibody ( alpha ir3 ) inhibited serum-free growth . these data demonstrate that igf-i expression is a property of neuroectodermal tumors with a t ( 11 ; 22 ) translocation and that interruption of an igf-i autocrine loop inhibits the growth of these tumor cells . 
metabolic effects of cachectin/tumor necrosis factor are modified by site of production . cachectin/tumor necrosis factor-secreting tumor in skeletal muscle induces chronic cachexia , while implantation in brain induces predominantly acute anorexia . we have developed a murine model of wasting by injecting intracerebrally cells which continuously secrete h-cachectin/tnf ( cho-tnf ) to : ( a ) determine the effects of cachectin/tnf produced continuously in the central nervous system ( cns ) , and ( b ) compare the metabolic effects of cachectin/tnf-secreting tumor in the brain to the cachexia caused by cho-tnf tumor in peripheral tissue ( im ) . intracerebral cho-tnf tumors produced increased serum h-cachectin/tnf levels with lethal hypophagia and weight loss ( mean survival time of 11 d ) ; these changes were not observed in association with nonsecretory control brain tumors . the metabolic consequences of intracerebral cachectin/tnf production were indistinguishable from acute , lethal starvation : whole-body lipid content was decreased significantly but protein was conserved . although intramuscular cachectin/tnf-secreting tumors caused similar increases of serum h-cachectin/tnf levels , profound anorexia did not develop ; wasting developed after a longer period of tumor burden ( 50 d ) with classical signs of cachexia ( i.e. , anemia and depletion of both protein and lipid ) . these studies provide a reproducible animal model of site-specific cytokine production and suggest that , regardless of serum levels , cachectin/tnf produced locally in brain influences both the rate of development of wasting and its net metabolic effects . 
a controlled trial of clobetasol propionate ointment 0.05 % in the treatment of experimentally induced rhus dermatitis . we studied the effectiveness of clobetasol propionate ointment 0.05 % in experimentally induced rhus dermatitis . clobetasol rapidly decreased the vesiculation at each treated site , although the effect was most prominent at the site to which clobetasol was applied the earliest , that is , at 12 hours after exposure to rhus extract . on the basis of this experimental model , clobetasol propionate ointment 0.05 % may be effective therapy for naturally occurring rhus dermatitis . 
spitz nevi in black children . four black children with spitz nevi are presented . the initial clinical diagnosis was pyogenic granuloma for three patients . one child had two spitz nevi . histologic examination revealed melanocytic dendritic hyperplasia in all cases . 
papular-purpuric " gloves and socks " syndrome . we report five cases of an acute , self-limiting dermatosis that has not been previously described . it consists of a pruritic edema and erythema of the hands and feet in a gloves-and-socks distribution and is associated with oral lesions and fever . the clinical course is characterized by the rapid development of petechial purpura and clearing of lesions within 1 to 2 weeks . the disease appears to affect only young and otherwise healthy persons and occurs mostly during the spring . the etiology is unknown but might be of infectious origin . 
toxic epidermal necrolysis after bone marrow transplantation : study of nine cases . acute graft-versus-host reaction after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation has been reported to induce toxic epidermal necrolysis . to assess the respective role of acute graft-versus-host disease and of drug reaction in this setting , we retrospectively reviewed nine cases of toxic epidermal necrolysis that occurred in a series of 152 allogenic bone marrow recipients . in five cases visceral involvement was suggestive of acute graft-versus-host disease without any drug more than " doubtfully " suspected . in four cases extracutaneous symptoms were absent or mild and suspect drugs ( mainly sulfonamides ) had been administered with a timing suggestive of " possible " causality . all nine patients died , mainly from infection possibly aggravated by high doses of corticosteroids . we conclude that toxic epidermal necrolysis may be more frequent than generally thought after bone marrow transplantation and has a poor prognosis . it seems to be related to a drug reaction to sulfonamides as often as to acute graft-versus-host disease . 
coronary angioplasty in young adults : initial results and late outcome . the initial and late outcome of coronary angioplasty was studied in 148 patients less than 40 years of age ( mean 36.4 + / - 3 ) . angioplasty was performed on a single vessel in 70 % of patients and on multiple vessels in 30 % ; it was performed on a totally occluded vessel in 20 % . angioplasty was successful in 90.5 % of patients , unsuccessful but uncomplicated in 7.4 % and complicated by myocardial infarction in 0.7 % , emergency bypass surgery in 0.7 % and death in 0.7 % . at late ( mean 3.7 + / - 3 years ; range 0.5 to 11.5 ) follow-up study after successful angioplasty , 94 % of patients were alive , 79 % were free of angina and 85 % had returned to work ; late myocardial infarction occurred in 4 % . actuarial survival at 5 years was 95 % , and 85 % of patients were free from death , infarction or bypass surgery . a second angioplasty was performed in 29 patients ( 22 % ) ( mean 6.1 + / - 8.4 months ) and was successful in 27 ( 93 % ) , with no deaths . elective coronary bypass surgery was performed in 8.5 % of patients , with perioperative infarction in 9 % and no deaths . by univariate analysis , late death was more likely to occur in hypertensive patients ( 15 % versus 2.5 % ; p less than 0.01 ) and diabetic patients ( 21.4 % versus 3.6 % ; p less than 0.01 ) . cox proportional hazard regression analysis identified hypertension ( p = 0.007 ) and diabetes ( p = 0.04 ) as independent time-related predictors of subsequent death . thus , early and late results after coronary angioplasty in young adults are favorable , but certain risk factors are important predictors of outcome . late revascularization procedures ( repeat angioplasty or surgery ) for restenosis or disease progression are common . 
decreased operative risk of surgical treatment of mitral regurgitation with or without coronary artery disease . the consecutive 2 year experience with patients undergoing first-time surgery for mitral regurgitation with and without coronary artery disease was reviewed . from january 1988 to january 1990 , 127 patients with pure mitral regurgitation undergoing first-time operation were surgically treated . no other valve lesion , no reoperation and no congenital defects were included . the mean patient age was 62 years with 26 % of the patients greater than 70 years . twenty-six percent of the entire group was in functional class iv . seventy-five patients received mitral valve repair and 52 underwent mitral valve replacement with a st. jude or hancock valve . in patients undergoing mitral valve repair , there was a higher incidence of those greater than 70 years old and of coronary artery disease and in patients undergoing mitral valve replacement there was a higher incidence of functional class iv . the operative mortality rate was 2.3 % ( 3 of 127 patients ) . no patient failed to be discontinued from cardiopulmonary bypass and all three deaths occurred after mitral valve replacement , with one from complications of chronic renal failure and dialysis . there was no significant difference in patients who either did or did not have a concomitant coronary artery bypass graft and there was no difference related to age or functional class . postoperative complications occurred in five patients in the valve repair group , including recurrent mitral regurgitation in two necessitating reoperation , and in three patients in the valve replacement group . with newer operative and postoperative management techniques , especially preservation of the papillary muscle annular continuity , the risk of mitral valve surgery , particularly of valve repair , is considerably lower than in previous years . 
reduced atrial contribution to left ventricular filling in patients with severe tricuspid regurgitation after tricuspid valvulectomy : a doppler echocardiographic study . patients undergoing valvulectomy for isolated tricuspid valve endocarditis offer the unique opportunity to study the effects of acquired right ventricular volume overload on left ventricular filling in persons free of pulmonary hypertension and preexisting left heart disease . eleven patients who had undergone total or partial removal of the tricuspid valve were compared with 11 age-matched control subjects ; doppler echocardiographic techniques were used to quantify changes in left ventricular filling and to relate them to changes in left ventricular and left atrial geometry caused by right ventricular and right atrial distension . the late diastolic fractional transmitral flow velocity integral , a measure of the left atrial contribution to left ventricular filling , was significantly decreased in patients undergoing tricuspid valvulectomy compared with control subjects ( 0.22 + / - 0.11 versus 0.32 + / - 0.09 ; p less than 0.04 ) . severe tricuspid regurgitation in these patients resulted in marked right atrial distension , reversal of the normal interatrial septal curvature and compression of the left atrium such that left atrial area was significantly smaller than in control subjects ( 5.9 + / - 2.2 versus 8.6 + / - 1.2 cm2/m2 ; p less than 0.005 ) . acting as a receiving chamber , the left ventricle was maximally compressed by the volume-overloaded right ventricle in late diastole , coincident with the timing of atrial systole , resulting in a significant increase in the left ventricular eccentricity index compared with that in control subjects ( 1.35 + / - 0.14 versus 1.03 + / - 0.1 ; p less than 0.001 ) . thus , right ventricular volume overload due to severe tricuspid regurgitation results in left heart geometric alterations that decrease left atrial preload , impair left ventricular receiving chamber characteristics and reduce the atrial contribution to total left ventricular filling . 
demonstration of an area of slow conduction in human atrial flutter . ten patients with chronic atrial flutter were studied prospectively using electrophysiologic mapping and pacing techniques to assess the mechanism of atrial flutter and the presence of an area of slow conduction in the atria . electrograms recorded from greater than or equal to 30 right atrial sites for each patient during atrial flutter demonstrated that right atrial free wall activation was craniocaudal and that the interatrial septum activation was caudocranial , consistent with a reentrant circuit involving the right atrium . in six patients , slow conduction occurred during atrial flutter in the inferior right atrium and was spatially associated with fractionated electrographic recordings . in the other four patients , a " missing " interval of electrical activity occurred in the inferior right atrium for an average of 40 % of the atrial flutter cycle . transient entrainment criteria were demonstrated in each patient during rapid high right atrial pacing . the mean activation time from the high right atrial pacing site to the coronary sinus ( inferior left atrial ) recording site was long ( 228 ms ) and consistent with activation through an area of slow conduction . during rapid pacing of atrial flutter from the coronary sinus site , no transient entrainment criteria could be demonstrated . the mean activation time from the coronary sinus pacing site to the high right atrial recording site was relatively short ( 134 ms ) and consistent with orthodromic activation of the high right atrium not through an area of slow conduction . high right atrial pacing during sinus rhythm at rates similar to atrial flutter demonstrated a short activation time to the coronary sinus and low right atrial sites ( mean 169 and 88 ms , respectively ) , indicating activation that did not traverse an area of slow conduction . coronary sinus pacing during sinus rhythm demonstrated the same phenomena . low right atrial electrograms recorded during sinus rhythm and during rapid pacing of sinus rhythm were not fractionated , although they were during atrial flutter . thus , atrial mapping and pacing data were complementary , indicating that human atrial flutter in the patients studied was generated by a reentrant circuit in the right atrium , with an area of slow conduction in the low right atrium present only during atrial flutter . 
noninvasive detection of patients with ischemic and nonischemic heart disease prone to ventricular fibrillation . abnormalities in the fast fourier transforms of signal-averaged electrocardiograms ( ecgs ) obtained during sinus rhythm appear to distinguish patients with ischemic heart disease and sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia from those without ventricular tachycardia . this study was performed to determine the power of frequency analysis to detect patients with a history of ventricular fibrillation , to determine the extent to which spectra of signal-averaged ecgs from patients with ischemic and nonischemic heart disease are comparable and to compare results of signal-averaged ecg analysis in patients with ventricular fibrillation with results of programmed ventricular stimulation . signal-averaged ecgs were obtained during sinus rhythm from 60 patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia ( group i ) and 34 patients with ventricular fibrillation ( group ii ) . results of signal-averaged ecg analysis were abnormal in 92 % of patients with ventricular tachycardia and 85 % of patients with ventricular fibrillation ( p = ns ) . abnormal spectra were detected in the signal-averaged ecgs from 90 % of patients with ischemic and from 86 % of patients with nonischemic heart disease ( p = ns ) . in contrast , the results of programmed stimulation differed markedly between the two patient groups . sustained ventricular arrhythmias were induced in 91 % of the patients with ventricular tachycardia compared with only 46 % of those with ventricular fibrillation ( p less than 0.0001 ) . moreover , ventricular tachycardia was inducible in 81 % of patients with ischemic heart disease compared with only 50 % of those with nonischemic heart disease ( p less than 0.02 ) . thus , abnormalities in the spectra of signal-averaged ecgs were found in the majority of patients with ventricular fibrillation and were detectable even in those whose arrhythmia was not inducible by programmed stimulation . these results broaden the potential clinical application of noninvasive interrogation of signal-averaged ecgs to include the prospective identification of patients with ischemic or nonischemic heart disease prone to ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation . 
restenosis after directional coronary atherectomy : differences between primary atheromatous and restenosis lesions and influence of subintimal tissue resection . rates of restenosis were evaluated in 70 patients ( 74 lesions ) after successful directional coronary atherectomy . the extent of vascular tissue resection was correlated with restenosis rates for coronary ( n = 59 ) and vein bypass graft ( n = 15 ) lesions . after 6 months , the overall restenosis rate was 50 % ( 37 of 74 lesions ) ; it was 42 % ( 15 of 36 lesions ) when intima alone was resected , 50 % ( 7 of 14 lesions ) when media was resected and 63 % ( 15 of 24 lesions ) when adventitia was resected . subintimal tissue resection increased the restenosis rate for vein grafts ( 43 % with intimal resection versus 100 % with subintimal resection , p = 0.01 ) but not for coronary arteries ( 50 % versus 48 % ) . there was no overall difference in restenosis rates after atherectomy between primary lesions and restenosis lesions that occurred after balloon angioplasty ( 46 % versus 54 % ) . among postballoon angioplasty restenosis lesions , a higher rate of restenosis after atherectomy was found with subintimal than with intimal resection ( 78 % versus 32 % , p = 0.01 ) . tissues from patients undergoing a second atherectomy for restenosis after initial atherectomy ( n = 8 ) demonstrated neointimal hyperplasia that appeared histologically identical to restenotic tissue developing after balloon angioplasty ( n = 37 ) . these data suggest that the cellular response to directional coronary atherectomy is characterized by neointimal proliferation similar to that which may develop after balloon angioplasty . the extent of fibrous hyperplasia appears to be related to the depth of tissue resection in vein graft lesions and coronary artery restenosis lesions that occur after balloon angioplasty but not in primary atheromatous coronary artery lesions . 
assessment of ventricular septal defect closure by intraoperative epicardial ultrasound . intraoperative epicardial two-dimensional echocardiographic imaging , color flow mapping and contrast echocardiography were used in 31 patients after patch closure of a ventricular septal defect to determine their respective values in the assessment of residual shunting after cardiopulmonary bypass and for the prediction of long-term results . epicardial imaging showed no incidence of patch dehiscence . residual shunting detected by color flow mapping or contrast echocardiography was graded into one of four categories ( 0 to iii ) . real time analysis of color flow mapping studies suggested no shunting ( grade 0 ) in 2 patients , grade i shunting in 20 , grade ii in 8 and grade iii in 1 ; contrast studies suggested grade 0 in 15 , grade i in 6 , grade ii in 8 and grade iii in 2 . interobserver variation in real time encoding of grade i or ii shunting was 25 % by color flow mapping and 6 % by contrast echocardiography . subsequent frame by frame analysis revealed that both diastolic and early systolic right ventricular turbulence gave rise to false positive results during real time analysis of color flow mapping studies . color flow mapping allowed exact localization of residual shunting , whereas contrast echocardiography allowed better semiquantification . postbypass results were correlated in 30 patients with late postoperative precordial studies ( mean interval 7.5 months ) . persistent shunts were found in 6 ( 20 % ) of 30 patients . no patient required reoperation for residual shunting . the predictive value of immediate grade i or ii shunting as a marker for persistent long-term shunting was poor , whereas both patients with immediate grade iii shunting had shunt persistence , indicating that immediate revision should be considered in such patients . intraoperative epicardial ultrasound is valuable for the immediate exclusion of important residual shunting after ventricular septal defect closure . maximal information is obtained when color flow mapping and contrast echocardiography are used in combination . 
effect of antiarrhythmic therapy on mortality in survivors of myocardial infarction with asymptomatic complex ventricular arrhythmias : basel antiarrhythmic study of infarct survival ( basis ) in view of the high risk of sudden cardiac death and the prognostic importance of complex ventricular ectopic activity , the effects of prophylactic antiarrhythmic treatment were investigated prospectively in patients with persisting asymptomatic complex arrhythmias after myocardial infarction . end points were total mortality and arrhythmic events ( sudden death , sustained ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation ) . of 1,220 consecutively screened survivors of myocardial infarction , 312 had lown class 3 or 4b arrhythmia on 24 h electrocardiographic recordings before hospital discharge and consented to the study . they were randomized to individualized antiarrhythmic treatment ( group 1 , n = 100 ) , treatment with low dose amiodarone , 200 mg/day ( group 2 , n = 98 ) or no antiarrhythmic therapy ( group 3 [ control group ] , n = 114 ) . during the 1 year follow-up period , 10 patients in group 1 died , as did 5 in group 2 and 15 in group 3 . on the basis of an intention to treat analysis , the probability of survival of patients given amiodarone was significantly greater than that of control patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . in addition , arrhythmic events were significantly reduced by amiodarone ( p less than 0.01 ) . these effects were less marked and not significant for individually treated patients ( group 1 ) . these findings suggest that low dose amiodarone decreases mortality in the 1st year after myocardial infarction in patients at high risk of sudden death . 
effects of dipyridamole and aminophylline on hemodynamics , regional myocardial blood flow and thallium-201 washout in the setting of a critical coronary stenosis . experiments were performed to characterize the interaction of intravenous dipyridamole and aminophylline on thallium-201 transport kinetics , regional myocardial blood flow and systemic hemodynamics in the presence of a critical coronary artery stenosis . in 12 dogs with a critical left anterior descending coronary artery stenosis , arterial pressure decreased from a mean value ( + / - sem ) of 107 + / - 6 to 94 + / - 3 mm hg ( p less than 0.05 ) and distal left anterior descending artery pressure decreased from 70 + / - 7 to 55 + / - 4 mm hg ( p less than 0.05 ) after intravenous administration of dipyridamole ( 0.25 mg/kg body weight ) . in the left anterior descending perfusion zone , the endocardial/epicardial flow ratio decreased from 0.70 to 0.36 and the intrinsic thallium washout rate was significantly prolonged . intravenous aminophylline ( 5 mg/kg ) reversed the dipyridamole-induced systemic hypotension and transmural coronary steal and restored the thallium washout rate to baseline values . in six other dogs , aminophylline alone resulted in no alterations in systemic and coronary hemodynamics or regional myocardial blood flow . as expected , dipyridamole-induced vasodilation and coronary steal were prevented by aminophylline pretreatment . these data show that in a canine model of partial coronary stenosis , systemic hypotension , adverse regional flow effects ( coronary steal ) and prolonged thallium-201 washout consequent to intravenously administered dipyridamole are promptly reversed by intravenous aminophylline administration . aminophylline alone had no significant hemodynamic and coronary flow effects . this study provides further insight into the altered thallium kinetics occurring as a consequence of dipyridamole-induced vasodilation and suggests that the prompt reversal of symptoms and signs of ischemia with aminophylline in patients receiving intravenous dipyridamole for clinical imaging studies probably reflects the reversal of transmural coronary steal . 
sudden death associated with undiagnosed graves ' disease . hyperthyroidism may result in multiple symptoms attributable to an excess of thyroid hormone . we report a case of graves ' disease in association with sudden death in a previously healthy , undiagnosed young female . this case illustrates an unusual initial presentation of graves ' disease . 
leukocyte larceny : spurious hypoxemia confirmed with pulse oximetry leukemic patients with extremely high white blood counts may exhibit the phenomenon of leukocyte larceny , in which white blood cells metabolize plasma oxygen in arterial blood gas samples ( abg ) producing a spuriously low oxygen tension . we report the case of a leukemic patient with a white blood count in excess of 500,000 in whom multiple abgs documented hypoxemia out of proportion to his clinical picture . pulse oximetry was used to confirm higher hemoglobin oxygen saturation to establish the leukocyte larceny . 
analysis of base station morphine orders : assessment of supervising physician consistency . paramedic contact with a base station should gemerate consistent recommendations reflecting a consensus of base station physician care . in our urban ems system , paramedics must contact a single base station to provide morphine sulfate ( ms ) for a patient with chest pain . we performed a retrospective cohort analysis of all prehospital ms requests for chest pain to determine the consistency of the circumstances for which the paramedic team was refused ms. these ms requests represented 123 of the 1,715 ( 7 % ) on-line physician consultations during the 6-month study . only 15 of the 123 ( 12 % ) ms requests were refused . neither the mean patient age , sex distribution , or presenting vital signs correlated with ms refusal . a maximum estimate of transport time to the hospital of less than or equal to 5 minutes was noted for 7 of 15 ( 47 % ) medication refusals compared to only 11 of 96 ( 11 % ) approvals with documented estimated transport times ( p less than or equal to 0.005 ) . a simultaneous request for nitroglycerin ( ntg ) was noted for 6 of the 15 ( 40 % ) medication refusals and 15 of the 108 ( 14 % ) approvals ( p less than 0.05 ) . we found refusal of ms administration to be uncommon . supervising physicians tended to refuse ms when the transport time was short and when ntg was requested for concomitant administration . we also noted physician inconsistencies in refusal scenarios . these findings can guide physician consensus development to avoid sending mixed messages to paramedics . 
the electrocardiographic manifestations of cyclic antidepressant therapy and overdose : a review . cyclic antidepressants may cause changes in the electrocardiogram at therapeutic or toxic serum levels . the most serious complications of cyclic antidepressant toxicity are dysrhythmias , hypotension , and seizures . it is predominantly the cardiotoxic effects that cause mortality . once cardiotoxicity is evident , the treatment of choice is serum alkalinization , preferably by sodium bicarbonate therapy . in order to predict which overdose patients are at high risk for complications , electrocardiographic criteria have been identified as reliable screens . for " first generation " tricyclic antidepressants , qrs prolongation ( particularly greater than 100 msec ) and a terminal 40-ms frontal plane axis greater than 120 degrees are the most sensitive . this article reviews antidepressant pharmacology , electrocardiographic manifestations of antidepressant cardiotoxicity , and approaches to treatment of antidepressant-induced conduction disturbances and dysrhythmias . 
the electrocardiogram in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . the electrocardiogram is often abnormal in patients who have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . the most frequent abnormalities are a rightward p-wave axis ( greater than or equal to 70 degrees ) and a rightward qrs axis ( greater than or equal to 90 degrees ) . in addition , low voltage in the limb leads , an s1s2s3 pattern , poor r-wave progression , a posterior-superior terminal qrs vector or other changes may be present . transient atrial and ventricular dysrhythmias are common . knowledge of the usual electrocardiographic manifestations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease enables the clinician to recognize uncharacteristic abnormalities , which often represent the effects of superimposed illnesses or drug toxicity . 
a randomized trial of the effect of three non-steroid anti-inflammatory agents in ameliorating cancer-induced fever . paraneoplastic fever is well known , and is not an uncommon problem in daily practice . in an effort to ameliorate tumour-induced fever we randomized 48 patients to receive three different non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs : naproxen ( 500 mg d-1 ) , indomethacin ( 75 mg d-1 ) or diclophenac sodium ( 75 mg d-1 ) . all patients had solid tumours , and microbial infection had been excluded . all three drugs were equally effective in bringing the temperature down to normal for a period of 30-33 d. naproxen had the most rapid effect . in cases of fever relapse with the first drug , when the other two drugs were given instead , both proved equally effective . no side-effects were observed . we conclude that naproxen , indomethacin and diclophenac sodium are equally effective in ameliorating paraneoplastic fever . in relapse , a second drug given subsequently can be effective as well . 
ischaemic heart disease among men in norway during the period 1966-1985 : two counties with different mortality time trends . we have examined regional differences in mortality from ischaemic heart disease , including sudden , unexpected death ( ihd/sud ) , among norwegian men aged 30-69 years , during the period 1966-1985 . mortality time trends were considered . the two counties with the most widely differing ihd/sud mortality time trends were rogaland and oppland . rogaland , located in south-western norway , experienced a 24.1 % ihd/sud mortality rate decrease between 1966-1970 and 1981-1985 , while oppland , in central south-eastern norway , experienced a mortality rate increase of 12.4 % . marked regional differences within these counties were found . the highest ihd/sud mortality rate increase occurred in rural areas of oppland . urban areas of rogaland had sharply decreasing rates . knowledge of such regional mortality differences could provide useful information regarding aetiological factors and serve as a basis for preventive measures and health-care planning . 
retroperitoneal fibrosis after surgery for aortic aneurysm in a patient with periarteritis nodosa : successful treatment with corticosteroids . a 54-year-old man with hepatitis b virus-related periarteritis nodosa developed retroperitoneal fibrosis with bilateral hydronephrosis 2.5 months after placement of an aortobifemoral prosthesis for abdominal aortic aneurysm . retroperitoneal fibrosis disappeared after treatment with corticosteroids . this observation is interesting in the light of the hypothesis that retroperitoneal fibrosis is caused by vasculitis . 
predictors of quitting smoking : the nhanes i followup experience . there are no published prospective studies on the predictors of spontaneously quitting cigarette smoking in a nationally-representative u.s. population . this paper describes such a study , using a cohort taken from the first national health and nutrition examination survey ( nhanes i , 1971-1975 ) and traced by the nhanes i epidemiologic followup survey ( 1982-1984 ) . " successful " quitting ( for at least 1 year at time of followup ) was ascertained among 4779 adults ( age 25-74 years ) who were smokers at the time of nhanes i and not disabled at followup . independent predictors of quitting ( by proportional hazards multiple regression ) were : ( 1 ) older age ; ( 2 ) white race ; ( 3 ) fewer cigarettes smoked/day ; ( 4 ) higher household income ; and ( 5 ) hospitalization in the followup period . predictors of relapse ( ex-smokers at nhanes i who were smoking again at time of followup ) were : ( 1 ) younger age ; ( 2 ) urban residence ; and ( 3 ) female gender . these findings have implications for intervention strategies , public health projections and further research . 
role of membrane proteins in monosodium urate crystal-membrane interactions . ii . effect of pretreatments of erythrocyte membranes with membrane permeable and impermeable protein crosslinking agents . intact , human erythrocytes were pretreated with membrane permeable , dimethyl adipimidate ( dma ) and dimethyl suberimidate ( dms ) and membrane impermeable 3,3 ' dithiobis ( sulfosuccinimidylpropionate ) ( dtssp ) protein crosslinking agents and incubated with monosodium urate monohydrate ( msum ) crystals . the percent inhibition of lysis values for pretreated cells relative to untreated cells were determined . all 3 agents caused a concentration dependent inhibition of msum induced hemolysis that was not due to a decrease in msum binding to the pretreated membranes . it was proposed that the inhibition of lysis was due to crosslinking of integral and cytoskeletal membrane proteins , resulting in a reduced mobility of the proteins , inhibition of lateralization of integral proteins into aggregates and decreased " pore " formation in the membrane . 
psychological stress and the fibrositis/fibromyalgia syndrome . the relationship of stress and social support to the fibrositis/fibromyalgia syndrome ( fs ) was investigated by administration of 4 questionnaire instruments to 28 patients with fs , 20 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) and 28 pain-free normal controls . fs showed higher levels of stress as measured by daily " hassles " than did ra or controls . however , on a measure of major life stress , they reported lower levels . no differences were found between groups with regard to daily " uplifts " or social support . correlations between those measures of stress and social support with their scores on the arthritis impact measurement scale showed that the hassles scale was significantly related to the aims psychological component . 
severe cerebral and systemic necrotizing vasculitis developing during pregnancy in a case of systemic lupus erythematosus . we describe a fatal case of systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) developing cerebral and systemic necrotizing vasculitis during pregnancy . the patient was discovered to have sle at 14 weeks ' gestation . although the symptoms disappeared without treatment with corticosteroid in the 2nd trimester , she presented with meningoencephalitis due to vasculitis in the 3rd trimester . polyarteritis nodosa ( pan ) - like necrotizing vasculitis of the small muscular arteries and arterioles , with acute and healing lesions in the leptomeninges , brain parenchyma and visceral organs was observed at postpartum autopsy . pan-like vasculitis in the central nervous system is quite rare in sle . this case is also suggestive in terms of the influence of pregnancy on the activity of sle . 
microscopic wegener 's disease : a particular form of wegener 's granulomatosis . we describe a case of wegener 's granulomatosis in which the disease was manifested with crescentic glomerulonephritis , upper airway ulcerations , and microangiopathic hemolytic anemia with consumptive coagulopathy . no granuloma was identified but antibodies to cytoplasmic components of neutrophils were strongly positive with a diffuse pattern . because microscopic vessels were predominantly involved ( capillaritis ) , and granuloma were absent , were refer to this particular form of the disease as " microscopic wegener 's disease . " . 
septic streptococcus milleri spondylodiscitis . we describe 2 patients presenting lumbar spondylitis due to streptococcus milleri . in both cases origin was related to preexistent intestinal pathology . surgical drainage of a collection of pus was necessary in one case . longterm antibiotic therapy led to full recovery . despite confused nomenclature streptococcus milleri must be considered a serious pathogen mainly associated with purulent infection with osteoarticular affinity . 
the systemic septic response : concepts of pathogenesis . following resuscitation from shock , the clinical phase of persistent hypermetabolism is entered from which a substantial number of patients transcend into progressive organ failure and expire . the available epidemiologic , physiologic , and metabolic data are consistent with the position that a persistent degree of microcirculatory hypoxia , although it may be present in amounts that are below the sensitivity of current detection systems , becomes an increasingly less important etiologic factor as the organ failure disease progresses . rather , aerobic metabolism appears to be the dominant mechanism of meeting the increased work loads and energy demands . there is an increasing body of evidence that cytokine release systemically , and increased cell-cell interaction through cytokines and prostanoids locally , may alter not only parenchymal function in the proximity of these mononuclear cells , but organ function at distant sites . if this latter hypothesis continues to be substantiated , it implies that the underlying cell and organ dysfunction may indeed be reversible if appropriate counter-regulatory mechanisms could be developed and the appropriate timing of their application understood . 
biliary and gut function following shock . the aim of this study was to characterize the alterations in gallbladder and intestinal function after hemorrhagic shock and blood reperfusion in opossums . animals were subjected to a shock of 30 mm hg of arterial blood pressure for 60 minutes and resuscitated with blood reinfusion . gallbladder epithelial ion transport , gallbladder motility in vitro and in vivo , gastrointestinal motility , and flora of the stomach and small bowel were studied 2 and 24 hours after shock . changes at 2 hours included decreased gallbladder contractility in vitro and decreased emptying in vivo , loss of coordination with intestinal motor activity , decrease in frequency of intestinal electrical slow waves , and reduced duration of the intestinal migrating motor complex cycle . by 24 hours , gallbladder epithelial permeability was increased and in vitro contractility remained reduced but the in vivo functions showed partial recovery . gastrointestinal flora was not affected by these changes . these data demonstrate that hemorrhagic shock and reperfusion affect digestive motility . the early timing of the alterations observed and the partial recovery 24 hours post shock suggest an ischemia-hypoxia mechanism of injury . 
multiple organ failure : inflammatory priming and activation sequences promote autologous tissue injury . systemic inflammation promotes multiple organ failure through the induction of diffuse microvascular leak . inflammatory cells such as neutrophils propagate this process . tissue injury by neutrophils may be viewed as a normal process , inflammation , that has become uncontrolled and generalized . multiple inflammatory stimuli synergistically promote neutrophil-mediated tissue injury in priming and activation sequences . in some settings , cellular priming is mediated by platelet-activating factor and can be prevented by platelet-activating factor antagonists . inhibiting cellular priming could be efficacious in the therapy of multiple organ failure . 
endotoxin requirements for alveolar macrophage stimulation . acute pulmonary failure or ards in severely injured patients continues to be a significant problem . the most important clinical risk factor identified is sepsis syndrome . sepsis syndrome is the clinical correlate of a malignant systemic inflammatory process and is directed in large part by the tissue-fixed macrophage ( m phi ) , such as the alveolar m phi . the m phi is capable of producing most of the central inflammatory mediators responsible for the pathophysiology seen during sepsis and organ injury . two major mediators are procoagulant activity ( pca ) , leading to diffuse microvascular thrombosis , and tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) , causing much of the physiologic derangement of sepsis . endotoxins ( lps ) derived from gram-negative bacterial cell walls are the primary inflammatory stimulus for the tissue-fixed m phi production of inflammatory mediators . it is not completely known how lps interacts with its various cellular targets , but it is hoped that knowledge of the molecular interactions involved in stimulation of the m phi by endotoxin will lead to therapies to modulate the response and prevent deleterious processes such as ards . in the present studies , lps from e. coli 0111 : b4 was shown in a dose response to stimulate large levels of both pca and tnf in alveolar m phi . lps from bacteroides fragilis and lipid x ( the monosaccharide precursor of endotoxin ) were unable to cause stimulation of the m phi in vitro . however , both moieties , b. fragilis lps and lipid x , were able to effectively and specifically compete with e. coli lps and block m phi stimulation . 
ureteral triplication and ureterocele : report of 3 cases and review of the literature . we report 3 cases of ureterocele associated with ureteral triplication and review the literature . ureteral triplication was type i in 2 patients and type ii in 1 . diagnosis was established preoperatively in 2 cases and intraoperatively in 1 . all patients were initially treated by upper pole partial nephrectomy and aspiration of the ureterocele , leaving the ureteral stump open in the retroperitoneum . subsequent excision of the ureterocele and ureteral reimplantation for persistent ipsilateral vesicoureteral reflux and recurrent urinary tract infections were required in 2 cases . 
short-term and long-term changes in renal function after donor nephrectomy . we retrospectively examined the effect of nephrectomy on renal function in 55 living related donors . renal function was measured with 131iodine-orthoiodohippurate scans . all patients were studied preoperatively , and 1 week and 1 year postoperatively . in 20 patients 10-year followup was available . compensatory hypertrophy was complete 1 week postoperatively : effective renal plasma flow of the remaining kidney was 32.5 % higher than preoperatively . the increase remained stable for at least a year . the degree of compensatory hypertrophy was significantly greater in male patients ( 46.9 % after 1 week ) than in female patients ( 26.7 % ) . compensatory hypertrophy occurred in all age groups studied and it was most pronounced in patients less than 30 years old . in the patients followed for 10 years effective renal plasma flow decreased from 387.7 ml . per minute 1 week after nephrectomy to 367.4 ml . per minute at 10 years . this result is similar to the decrease seen in the normal population . according to our results , renal donation by living related persons does not lead to long-term decrease in renal function . 
treatment of idiopathic retroperitoneal fibrosis by immunosuppression . idiopathic retroperitoneal fibrosis is exceedingly uncommon in childhood and its etiology is uncertain . support for an immunological basis for the disease is given by a report of a 14-year-old girl with severe retroperitoneal fibrosis causing progressive azotemia in whom azathioprine and prednisolone were used successfully . this case supports the efficacy of immunotherapy in the treatment of idiopathic retroperitoneal fibrosis . 
highly sensitized patients with delayed graft function : a management protocol . the postoperative management of the highly sensitized renal transplant recipient with delayed graft function on cyclosporine is complicated . allografts with delayed graft function are reported to have a 20 to 30 % poorer 1-year survival than allografts without delayed graft function . several factors may be implicated in this poorer 1-year survival . a decrease in or cessation of cyclosporine dosage frequently is used in an attempt to minimize nephrotoxicity . such under-immunosuppression can result in irreversible rejection . occasionally , a pessimistic view of the prognosis for the transplant may result in early abandonment of the allograft with discontinuation of immunosuppression and allograft nephrectomy . we report on 3 highly sensitized patients whose kidneys had delayed graft function and were deliberately maintained on high doses of cyclosporine throughout the period of delayed graft function . each graft achieved function ( 2 , 4 and 5 months ) after transplantation . the serum creatinine levels 20 , 28 and 38 months after transplantation were 2.7 , 2.0 and 1.0 mg . / dl. , respectively . we suggest that the maintenance of high cyclosporine levels throughout the delayed graft function period is useful in highly sensitized recipients and was an important factor in their successful outcome . a management protocol for such patients is proposed . 
substance abuse-related spontaneous bladder rupture : report of 2 cases and review of the literature . spontaneous rupture of the normal bladder associated with alcohol abuse is rare , with only 20 cases reported in the english literature to which we add 2 cases . heavy alcohol ingestion predisposes the bladder to rupture by the large volume of fluid intake , its diuretic effect and the mental obtusion it produces , clouding sensory cues to void . alpha-sympathomimetic drugs , such as cocaine and methamphetamine , increase the resistance at the urethral sphincter and exacerbate the effects of alcohol . cystography will be diagnostic , and prompt operative repair of intraperitoneal rupture is mandatory . complete evaluation of the bladder , including urodynamic study , is important to eliminate underlying bladder pathological conditions . substance abuse-related rupture demonstrates a typical constellation of clinical features that necessitate considering it a syndrome separate from other causes of spontaneous bladder rupture . 
en bloc transplantation of kidneys from donors weighing less than 15 kg . into adult recipients . en bloc transplantation of kidneys from donors who weighed less than 15 kg . into 20 adult patients is described . intraperitonealization of the medial kidney allowed adequate renal positioning and growth . graft venous thrombosis occurred in 1 patient and irreversible graft rejection occurred in 4 patients . graft survival was 65 % with excellent function at a mean followup of 8.8 months . en bloc transplantation of pediatric cadaver kidney grafts in adults is an acceptable procedure . 
rectourethral fistula caused by kaposi 's sarcoma . a 35-year-old man with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-related complex was evaluated for a persistent urethral discharge , pneumaturia and watery diarrhea . radiographic and endoscopic procedures established the diagnosis of a rectourethral fistula . perineal exploration and excision of the fistula revealed the pathological diagnosis of kaposi 's sarcoma . the differential diagnosis of an acquired rectourethral fistula and the significance of kaposi 's sarcoma are discussed . 
exaggerated venous mural hypertrophy in association with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the prostate . a 61-year-old black man presented with metastases to the right groin 5 years after 125iodine treatment for a well differentiated primary prostatic adenocarcinoma . medium sized veins within and immediately adjacent to the neoplasm showed marked mural thickening due to hypertrophy and hyperplasia of the inner circular and outer longitudinal muscles . there was no histological evidence of radiation effect in the stroma or in the tumor cells . we could find no report in the literature of such changes associated with metastatic carcinoma . 
afferent nipple valve malfunction caused by anchoring collar : an unexpected late complication of the kock continent ileal reservoir . in the construction of a kock continent ileal reservoir for urinary diversion , significantly high rates of late postoperative complications regarding nipple valves , the efferent limb in particular , have been reported . there are only a few reports on afferent nipple valve malfunction . a total of 42 patients who underwent a kock pouch operation and were observed for more than 12 months ( mean 38 months ) was evaluated in terms of afferent nipple valve malfunction . late afferent nipple valve complications were observed in 10 of the 42 patients ( 24 % ) . these complications included erosion of the polyester fiber fabric used as a collar ( 5 patients ) , stenosis of the afferent limb ( 2 ) and obstruction of the afferent nipple by a mucous plug or fungus ball ( 3 ) . the latter 2 complications were due to mechanical or dynamic obstruction of urine flow caused by a nonabsorbable collar . none of the 10 patients had problems with efferent nipple valve function . our results suggest that the peristaltic direction of the intestine and the use of nonabsorbable material as a collar are primarily responsible for the late afferent nipple valve complications . further modifications are needed to produce a stable nipple valve . otherwise , simpler and more reliable alternative techniques of antireflux anastomosis should be considered . 
extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy in combination with transurethral surgery for management of large bladder calculi and moderate outlet obstruction . in 5 men evaluated for symptoms of obstructive voiding flexible cystoscopy revealed large or multiple bladder calculi along with small to moderate prostatic enlargement . all patients had successful localization and fragmentation of calculi with the dornier hm3 lithotriptor . of these patients 4 underwent transurethral resection or incision of the prostate under the same epidural anesthesia for moderate prostatic obstruction without complication and 1 subsequently required suprapubic prostatectomy of a gland with a large middle lobe that made a transurethral operation difficult . extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy should be considered for the primary management of large or hard bladder calculi and it is of particular value in combination with a transurethral operation for patients with small to moderate prostatic obstruction . 
tamm-horsfall autoantibodies in interstitial cystitis . interstitial cystitis presents a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge . although many etiologies , including autoimmunity , have been proposed its pathogenesis remains obscure . tamm-horsfall protein has been identified in the superficial urothelium of patients with interstitial cystitis demonstrating abnormal urothelial permeability . eight patients with a clinical diagnosis of interstitial cystitis underwent cystoscopy and bladder biopsy . characteristic cystoscopic findings were present , and each patient had chronic inflammation and mast cells by histopathological analysis . preoperative anti-tamm-horsfall protein serum antibody ( igg ) titers were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( range 500 to 8,000 , mean 2,750 ) . a control group of 8 patients with a negative urological history also had titers of 0 to 500 ( p = 0.02 ) . the humoral response to tamm-horsfall protein in these patients suggests a role for tamm-horsfall protein in interstitial cystitis . measurement of serum tamm-horsfall protein antibody may prove to be useful as a noninvasive diagnostic test in patients with this disease . 
results of contemporary radical cystectomy for invasive bladder cancer : a clinicopathological study with an emphasis on the inadequacy of the tumor , nodes and metastases classification . we reviewed 261 patients who underwent a radical operation at a single institution as definitive treatment of invasive bladder cancer to evaluate the survival and accuracy of the tumor , nodes and metastasis system in characterizing the prognosis . between january 1979 and june 1987 the 261 evaluable patients underwent 1-stage radical cystectomy with pelvic node dissection and urinary diversion . no chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy was given before or after the operation . the postoperative mortality rate was 1.8 % . the over-all staging error between clinical and pathological stages was as high as 44 % . the over-all actuarial 5-year survival rate was 54.5 % . the 5-year survival rates were 75 % for stage pt1 , 63 % for stage pt2 , 31 % for stage pt3 and 21 % for stage pt4 disease . a significant difference in the survival ( p less than 0.002 ) was observed in stage pt3 by dividing tumors confined within the bladder wall ( pt3a , 50 % ) from those extending throughout the bladder wall ( pt3b , 15 % ) . a careful evaluation of transitional cell involvement of the prostate in stage pt4a cancer led to the identification of 2 different patterns : 1 ) contiguous when a bladder tumor extended directly into the prostate through the bladder wall and 2 ) noncontiguous when a bladder tumor and a transitional cell carcinoma of the prostate were found simultaneously . these patterns had completely different ( p less than 0.05 ) survival rates ( 6 versus 37 % ) . the patients with high grade tumors had a worse prognosis in comparison with those with grades 1 and 2 tumors ( 41 versus 56 % , p less than 0.005 ) . the over-all 5-year survival of patients with positive nodes was 4 % in comparison with 60 % of those without nodal involvement ( p less than 0.001 ) . despite current optimal surgical treatment , nearly 50 % of all patients with invasive bladder cancer continue to die . the need for a modification of the current tumor , nodes and metastasis tumor classification to provide the clinician a more reliable staging system for planning treatment modalities is indeed mandatory . 
total bladder replacement using detubularized sigmoid colon : technique and results . we performed total bladder replacement with a detubularized segment of sigmoid colon in patients after cystoprostatectomy . the surgical technique and long-term results in 27 patients are reported . this neobladder configuration compared favorably with other neobladder types regarding ease of construction . the surgical complications were acceptable . initial reservoir function was good but improved further with time . after 1 year the capacity averaged 600 cc , pressures during filling and at capacity were low ( average 12 and 16 cm . water ) and emptying was satisfactory ( residual urine 4 to 80 cc ) . all patients were continent during the day and 67 % were continent at night without excessive voiding habits . nighttime incontinence was further resolved in 2 patients by using the ams 800 artificial sphincter around the bulbous urethra . the detubularized sigmoid is an excellent neobladder configuration after cystoprostatectomy . 
