varicella with delayed hemiplegia . we report 4 children who developed acute hemiplegia 7 weeks to 4 months after varicella infection . in 2 patients , carotid angiography demonstrated segmental narrowing and occlusion of the middle cerebral artery . their clinical and angiographic features were similar to those associated with contralateral hemiplegia after herpes zoster ophthalmicus , the pathogenesis of which comprises cerebral angiitis due to varicella zoster viral infection . we believe that our patients had the same pathogenesis . in a survey of infectious diseases in our region , the frequency of varicella with delayed hemiparesis was roughly 1:6,500 varicella patients . 
prevalence of hiv antibody and pregnancy in tayside , 1984-9 : background to screening . objective -- to determine age specific prevalence of hiv antibody , incidence of pregnancy , and likelihood of detection and correct assignment to risk category by antenatal screening of women known to be positive for hiv antibody , from 1984 to 1989 . design -- retrospective analysis of reproductive history and risk behaviour of women positive for hiv antibody and prediction of detection by screening on the basis of blood group samples , guthrie tests , and rubella tests . setting -- city of dundee , where the prevalence of hiv is high , since the appearance of hiv in 1984 , predominantly among heterosexual intravenous drug users . patients -- all ( 61 ) women known to be positive for hiv antibody who had had clinically indicated tests , for whom case notes were available for 60 . main outcome measures -- risk assessment according to case notes and reported to the laboratory , incidence of infection , geographical location , age , date of positive test result , and reproductive history . results -- with 61 infected women the overall minimum prevalence among women within the city of dundee was 0.67 / 1000 and 2.9 / 1000 among women in their third decade . of the 60 women whose reproductive history was available , 35 had 57 pregnancies , 36 of which occurred after seroconversion was known to have taken place , representing 8.7 % of the total number of affected pregnancies reported for the united kingdom . if antenatal screening for hiv had been performed between 1984 and 1989 it could not have detected positivity for hiv antibody in 25 ( 42 % ) women who had no pregnancies during this time . among the remaining 35 women , screening samples taken for blood grouping could have identified a maximum of 34 ( 57 % ) , samples taken to check rubella susceptibility a maximum of 22 ( 37 % ) , and blood spots on guthrie cards a maximum of 19 ( 32 % ) . retesting would have occurred in 14 women 33 times with samples taken for blood grouping , but three and four women would have been tested twice using samples taken for rubella testing and guthrie cards respectively . anonymous screening would have been unable to determine risk category as a history of intravenous drug use was known in 47 ( 79 % ) women before testing but this was increased by a further 5 ( 8 % ) who admitted to it after the test result was known . conclusion -- interpreting the results of antenatal screening programmes will be complex and will underestimate overall prevalence of hiv antibody among women ; this will be exaggerated by strategies based on anonymous testing with guthrie cards or on samples taken for rubella testing , which do not include women who have had an earlier loss of pregnancy . only open testing with consent will permit satisfactory attribution to . 
gastrointestinal function and structure in hiv-positive patients . we examined 19 patients ( 17 men ) with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection and gastrointestinal symptoms to determine whether those symptoms were due to either a gastrointestinal tract infection or a defect in mucosal absorption because of an enteropathy . the erythrocyte folate and serum vitamin b12 levels were within normal limits in all of the patients . the serum ferritin level was elevated in 12 . the xylose absorption test results were abnormal in 8 of the 13 patients able to complete the study . none of the duodenal aspirates yielded a pathogen . light microscopy revealed nonspecific lymphocytic inflammation without infection in the stomach ( in seven patients ) , the esophagus ( in five ) , the duodenum ( in two ) and the rectum ( in two ) . however , biopsy specimens were positive for candida albicans in the esophagus ( four patients ) , cytomegalovirus in the esophagus ( one ) and the rectum ( two ) , helicobacter pylori in the antrum ( two ) , treponema infection in the rectum ( two ) and mycobacterium avium-intracellulare in the small intestine ( one ) . only three patients had a normal series of biopsy specimens . all of the patients had similar ultrastructural changes at the epithelial-stromal junction of the antral glands and in the intestinal crypts . we conclude that abnormal biochemical and endoscopic findings are common in hiv-positive patients with gastrointestinal symptoms . defects in carbohydrate absorption and ultrastructural changes may be responsible for some aspects of hiv enteropathy . 
resistance to infection by hiv-1 of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from hiv-1-infected patients is probably mediated by neutralizing antibodies . we have investigated whether pbmc of hiv-1-seropositive subjects are as susceptible to in vitro infection by hiv-1 as are pbmc from seronegative controls . accordingly , stimulated pbmc from 19 hiv-1-infected subjects were inoculated with four different variants of hiv-1 . none of these cultures produced either detectable quantities of viral reverse transcriptase activity or p24 ag following inoculation with hiv-1 . in contrast , in five of six cases in which these pbmc were depleted of b cells by antibody plus complement prior to viral inoculation , the presence of viral reverse transcriptase and p24 ag was detected . the presence of normal levels of cd4-ag at the surface of the cd4 + cells in these populations was established by flow cytometry . analysis by an immunoblot assay revealed that anti-hiv antibodies were present in the sera obtained from these infected donors ; in addition , 7 of 10 culture fluids derived from the nondepleted pbmc were shown to contain virus-neutralizing antibodies . cultures which were depleted of b cells did not contain detectable levels of antiviral antibodies . confirmation that the virus produced by the pbmc which had been depleted of b cells was of the strain used to infect the cultures , rather than that which initially caused patient infection , was provided on the basis of differential susceptibility to antibody neutralization . these results suggest that antibodies produced by b cells in cultures of pbmc from seropositive donors may restrict infection by hiv-1 of such cultures under laboratory conditions . 
endemic kaposi 's sarcoma in human immunodeficiency virus type 1-seronegative persons : demonstration of retrovirus-like particles in cutaneous lesions . in 1984 , greek physicians reported on the clustering of cases of kaposi 's sarcoma ( ks ) on the peloponnesus peninsula . to gain more insight into its pathogenesis , we studied the seroepidemiologic and clinicopathologic characteristics of 12 greek ks patients ( eight male/four female ) five of whom were residents of an endemic area on the peloponnesus . these patients were in good general health with ages ranging from 48 to 80 years , had no clinical signs of immunodeficiency , and combined the features of both classic and epidemic ks in that they displayed not only involvement of acral areas but also widespread mucocutaneous lesions . routine laboratory data were within normal limits ; no patient had htlv-1 and hiv-1 / 2 antibodies , but all patients had antibodies to several herpesviruses . the histopathology was characteristic of ks with the peculiar feature of a dense infiltrate composed predominantly of cd4 + t lymphocytes . immunoenzymatic/morphologic studies of the ks cells were consistent with their origin from lymphatic endothelium . outstanding ultrastructural findings were tubuloreticular structures and cylindrical confronting cisternae , structures that are indicative of an ongoing viral infection . indeed , extensive electronmicroscopic studies resulted in the detection of retrovirus-like particles in close association to ks cells in five of 12 patients . this in situ observation opens the possibility that this retro-virus contributes to ks development . 
assessment of platelet antibody by flow cytometric and elisa techniques : a comparison study . two different methods for evaluating platelet antibody were used to study 12 normal subjects and 24 patients consisting primarily of intravenous drug users ( ivdus ) who were positive for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) . total platelet-associated immunoglobulin g ( igg ) and immunoglobulin m ( igm ) were measured by enzyme-lined immunosorbent assay on platelet lysate , and platelet surface-associated igg and igm were measured by semiquantitative flow cytometry . igg and igm values showed significant correlations between the two measurement methods . mean platelet surface igg and total igg were 3.6 and 4.3 times greater , respectively , in ivdus than in controls , and platelet igm was also significantly higher in ivdus than in controls as measured by both techniques . although mean platelet immunoglobulin levels were higher in the ivdus with thrombocytopenia than in ivdus with normal platelet counts , these differences did not achieve significance . these data show that platelet igg and igm levels are increased in ivdu-associated hiv infection and suggest that these increases are not confined to patients manifesting thrombocytopenia . the herein described platelet surface antibody and total platelet antibody measurements appear to be equally useful in studying this patient population . specific details for generating platelet-associated immunofluorescence units are discussed . 
use of ct and mr imaging to distinguish intracranial lesions and to define the need for biopsy in aids patients to explore the potential usefulness of imaging studies in the diagnosis of focal central nervous system ( cns ) lesions associated with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , the authors retrospectively examined the radiographic studies of 149 aids patients who presented with signs and symptoms of the three most common focal cns lesions . of these patients , 74 ( 50 % ) had toxoplasma abscesses , 45 ( 30 % ) had primary cns lymphoma , and 30 patients ( 20 % ) had progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy ( pml ) . magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging was more sensitive than computerized tomography ( ct ) in detecting lesions , especially in cases of pml . whereas ct was unable to distinguish mass lesions caused by toxoplasmosis from those caused by lymphoma , 71 % of the solitary lesions seen on mr images were lymphomas . these results indicate that empirical treatment for toxoplasmosis , the most common initial treatment for aids patients with neurological symptoms stemming from mass lesions , is not likely to be successful for patients with solitary lesions on mr images . rather , early biopsy is advisable . if the presence of lymphoma is confirmed , the rapid initiation of treatment can allow prolonged high-quality survival . 
disturbances in the cerebral perfusion of human immune deficiency virus-1 seropositive asymptomatic subjects : a quantitative tomography study of 18 cases . quantitative measurements of cerebral blood flow ( cbf ) by xenon-133 ( 133xe ) tomography , together with magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) , electroencephalography ( eeg ) , psychometric tests , and laboratory analyses were performed on 18 human immunodeficiency virus 1 ( hiv-1 ) seropositive asymptomatic subjects . abnormalities of cerebral perfusion were observed in 16 cases ( 88 % ) . these abnormalities were particularly frequent in the frontal regions ( 77 % of cases ) . mri demonstrated leucoencephalopathy in only two cases . eeg showed only induced diffuse abnormalities in two cases . psychometric tests showed restricted moderate disturbances in 55 % of patients . these disturbances mostly concerned those sectors involved in cognitive functions and memorization . these results indicate that quantitative measurements of cbf by 133xe-spect is capable of detecting abnormalities of cerebral perfusion at a very early stage ( phase ii ) of hiv-1 infection . these abnormalities are indications of disturbances resulting from unidentified metabolic or vascular lesions . this technique appears to be superior to mri at this stage of the disease 's development . it could provide objective information leading to earlier treatment , and prove useful in evaluating potential antiviral chemotherapy . 
nebulized albuterol in acute bronchiolitis . in a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial , 40 infants between 6 weeks and 24 months of age who had a first episode of wheezing and other signs and symptoms of bronchiolitis were randomly assigned to receive either nebulized albuterol ( 0.15 mg/kg/dose ) or placebo ( saline solution ) for two administrations 1 hour apart . the albuterol therapy resulted in a significantly greater improvement in the accessory muscle score ( decreases 0.70 vs decreases 0.30 ; p = 0.03 ) , oxygen saturation ( increases 0.71 % vs decreases 0.47 % ; p = 0.01 ) after one dose , and in the accessory muscle score ( decreases 0.86 vs decreases 0.37 ; p = 0.02 ) , respiratory rate ( decreases 19.6 % vs decreases 8.0 % ; p = 0.016 ) , and oxygen saturation ( increases 0.76 % vs decreases 0.79 % ; p = 0.015 ) after two doses of the drug . the response to therapy was similar in infants younger and those older than 6 months of age . the heart rate rose slightly more in the albuterol group ( increases 7.76 from baseline ) versus the placebo group ( decreases 6.79 ) . there were no other side effects of the treatment . of the 34 children from whom nasal specimens were obtained by swab for viral identification , 24 had positive test results ( 21 for respiratory syncytial virus , 1 for parainfluenza , 1 for paramyxovirus , and 1 for influenza a ) . we conclude that nebulized albuterol constitutes a safe and effective treatment of infants with bronchiolitis . 
immunologic and pathologic manifestations of the infection of rhesus monkeys with simian immunodeficiency virus of macaques . the striking similarities between simian immunodeficiency virus ( siv ) - induced disease in macaque monkeys and hiv-induced disease in humans make the siv-induced macaque monkey an extraordinarily important model for the study of aids . the most significant difference between these lentivirus-induced syndromes is the more rapid progression of disease in siv-infected monkeys . the immunologic and pathologic manifestations of siv infections in rhesus monkeys are described . 
a report of eight hiv-seropositive patients with major depression responding to fluoxetine . this pilot study examined the effectiveness of fluoxetine in depressed human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - seropositive asymptomatic patients . eight patients , participating in an azt trial who met criteria for major depression syndrome ( dsm-iii-r ) , were treated with fluoxetine ( 20 or 40 mg/day ) for 4 weeks . initially , mean hamilton depression scores were 23.8 ( range of 17-31 ) , and improved to 6.4 ( range of 3-10 ) . all subjects maintained their remission over a 2-month follow-up . fluoxetine treatment may be effective in treating major depression in hiv-seropositive asymptomatic patients . 
relationship between aids latency period and aids survival time in homosexual and bisexual men . we identified 277 homosexual and bisexual men diagnosed with acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) whose estimated human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) seroconversion dates , ranging from 1977-85 , could be well approximated . these men were from a cohort of 6,705 homosexual and bisexual men originally recruited for studies of sexually transmitted hepatitis b in san francisco in 1978-80 . we compared the time from hiv seroconversion to the initial disease diagnostic of aids ( aids latency period ) with the time from first aids diagnosis to death ( aids survival time ) and found no significant overall correlation between latency period and survival time . both kaplan-meier and cox proportional hazard stepwise analyses found the initial aids diagnosis to be significantly associated with latency period , with individuals first diagnosed with kaposi 's sarcoma ( ks ) having a shorter latency but longer survival than those first diagnosed with pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) or other aids diagnoses . individuals with ks tended to be diagnosed earlier in the epidemic compared to those with pcp and other non-ks diagnoses . the aids survival time was significantly associated with the initial aids diagnosis but not with the estimated year of seroconversion , the year of first aids diagnosis , age at seroconversion , or racial/ethnic group . the information presented here on the relationship between the aids latency period and survival times suggests a model for the pathogenesis of hiv infection in which there is continual deterioration of the immune system . the wider use of antiviral and prophylactic therapies both preceding and following a diagnosis of aids may change this model as both latency and survival times are improved . 
the risk of development of htlv-i-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis among persons infected with htlv-i . using data obtained in national surveys of human t-lymphotropic virus type i ( htlv-i ) - associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis ( ham/tsp ) conducted in japan in 1987 and 1988 , we estimated the yearly and lifetime risk that ham/tsp will develop in an htlv-i-infected person . " definite " ham/tsp was defined as slowly progressive myelopathy with antibodies to htlv-i in both serum and cerebrospinal fluid . estimates of htlv-i infection rates in eight endemic prefectures , by age group and sex , were obtained from serologic studies of blood donors ; population figures , by age group , sex , and prefecture , were obtained from the census . of 589 definite cases of ham/tsp reported nationally , 397 occurred in residents of the eight endemic prefectures ; of these , 170 reported onset of illness during the years 1982-1988 ( average incidence , 24.3 cases/year ) . using the estimated htlv-i infection rates and the 1985 census figures , we estimated the number of htlv-i-infected persons in the eight prefectures in 1985 at 794,800 . we therefore estimated the incidence of ham/tsp among htlv-i-infected persons at 3.1 x 10 ( -5 ) cases/year ; assuming a lifetime of 75 years , the lifetime incidence is approximately one quarter of 1 % . this estimate is important in counseling persons such as blood donors found to be infected with htlv-i . 
a study of htlv-i and its associated risk factors in trinidad and tobago . seroprevalence of human t-lymphotropic virus type 1 ( htlv-i ) among a sample of persons selected from a government register of businesses in trinidad was 3.2 % in 1,025 persons of african descent compared to 0.2 % among 487 persons of asian descent and 0 % among 46 persons of european-descent . in tobago , from a coastal village , among persons of african ancestry ascertained as part of a cardiovascular survey , the rate was 11.4 % , which was significantly higher when corrected for age and race than the rate in trinidad . the seroprevalence rate of antibodies to hepatitis a and b was also significantly elevated in tobago compared to trinidad . htlv-i seroprevalence rates were higher in females than males while hepatitis a and b rates were not significantly different in the two sexes . for males , age was a significant determinant of htlv-i seropositivity , while for females , age , markers of poor sanitation , and hepatitis b were each independently linked to htlv-i seropositivity . the frequent occurrence of multiple infectious exposures in persons of lower socioeconomic circumstances in this tropical environment may result in immune activation that heightens susceptibility to htlv-i infection . 
acute central nervous system symptoms caused by ibuprofen in connective tissue disease . we describe 2 cases of acute encephalopathy in patients with connective tissue disease caused by small doses of ibuprofen . in addition to aseptic meningitis , both patients had altered mental status and focal neurologic signs , ophthalmoplegia in one and hemiparesis in the other . the spectrum of neurologic manifestations of ibuprofen hypersensitivity is reviewed . 
transmission of hiv-1 infections from mothers to infants in haiti . impact on childhood mortality and malnutrition . the cds/jhu aids project team . of 4588 pregnant women in a high-risk haitian population , 443 ( 9.7 % ) were serologically positive for the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) . infants born to women who were hiv-1 seropositive were more likely to be premature , of low birth weight , and malnourished at 3 and 6 months of age than were infants born to women who were hiv-1 seronegative . increased mortality was observed in infants born to women who were hiv-1 seropositive by 3 months of age . at 12 months of age , 23.4 % of the infants born to women who were hiv-1 seropositive had died compared with 10.8 % of the infants born to women who were hiv-1 seronegative ; at 24 months of age , the mortality rates were 31.3 % and 14.2 % , respectively . maternal hiv-1 infections resulted in an 11.7 % increase in the overall infant mortality rate in this population . the estimated mother-to-infant hiv-1 transmission rate in these breast-fed infants was 25 % , similar to the rates reported for non-breast-fed populations in the united states and europe . 
acute sensorineural deafness in lassa fever a prospective audiometric evaluation of 69 hospitalized febrile patients in sierra leone , west africa , revealed a sensorineural hearing deficit ( snhd ) in 14 ( 29 % ) of 49 confirmed cases of lassa fever and in 0 of 20 febrile controls . an snhd was present in nine ( 17.6 % ) of 51 people who had evidence of previous lassa virus infection . twenty-six of 32 local residents who had previously sustained a sudden deafness had antibody titers to lassa virus of 16 or greater , compared with six of 32 matched controls . lassa fever is associated with an incidence of snhd , which considerably exceeds that previously reported with any other postnatally acquired infection , and accounts for a prevalence of virus-related hearing impairment in the eastern province of sierra leone that is greater than that reported from anywhere else in the world . 
antibody persistence in gambian children after high-dose edmonston-zagreb measles vaccine . measles antibody concentrations in gambian children immunised at 4 months of age with a high-dose edmonston-zagreb ( ez ) measles vaccine or at 9 months with conventional schwarz vaccine were measured 5 months after vaccination , and at 18 and 36 months of age . schwarz vaccinees produced , on average , a 2.4-fold higher concentration of measles haemagglutinin inhibiting ( hai ) antibody than ez vaccinees , but at 36 months of age 82 of 93 ( 88 % ) ez vaccinees and 83 of 87 ( 95 % ) schwarz vaccinees had measles plaque-neutralising antibody concentrations above the assumed protective level of 200 miu/ml ( p greater than 0.1 ) . hai antibody concentrations 5 months after vaccination were inversely related to the presence of maternal antibody at vaccination , but above protective levels ; at 18 and 36 months of age there was no relation to antibody concentration at vaccination , and decay of hai antibody between 18 and 36 months of age was similar for ez and schwarz vaccinees . 
congenital syphilis presenting in infants after the newborn period background and methods . there has been a recent , dramatic increase in the incidence of congenital syphilis , particularly in urban areas . we describe seven infants seen during one year who were first given a diagnosis of congenital syphilis at 3 to 14 weeks of age , when symptoms developed . we reviewed these infants ' charts in order to ascertain the reasons for the failure to diagnose syphilis at birth and to identify the signs and symptoms of congenital syphilis in this group of infants . results . at delivery , four of the infants and their mothers had negative qualitative rapid-plasma-reagin tests for syphilis . the other three mothers had been seronegative during the pregnancy and were therefore not tested at delivery ; two of their infants were seronegative at birth , and one was not tested . when the infants became symptomatic between 3 and 14 weeks of age and were admitted to the hospital , all seven infants and the five mothers available for testing were found to be seropositive for syphilis . four infants presented with a characteristic diffuse rash ; the other three presented with fever and were found on admission to have aseptic meningitis . all these infants had multisystem disease , as evidenced by hepatomegaly , increased aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase levels , anemia , and monocytosis . in all the infants syphilis responded to parenteral penicillin . conclusions . congenital syphilis may be missed if serologic tests are not performed for both the mother and her infant at the time of delivery . even when these tests are performed , some infants are not identified as having syphilis , probably because the infection is very recent and there has been insufficient time for an antibody response to develop . some infants with congenital syphilis of later onset do not present with a typical rash ; therefore , at least in areas where the disease is prevalent , serologic tests for syphilis should be included in the evaluation of all febrile infants , even those with negative results on serologic testing at birth . 
colposcopic survey of papanicolaou test-negative cases with hyperkeratosis or parakeratosis . a colposcopic survey was performed in 269 consecutive women with negative cytology showing hyperkeratosis or parakeratosis . a colposcopy-guided biopsy specimen of cervical abnormalities was taken in 88 cases , and human papillomavirus infection ( hpv ) was detected histologically in 25 cases . no cervical intraepithelial neoplasia ( cin ) was detected . the detection rate of hpv was not significantly different from that observed in a consecutive series of 1073 papanicolaou test-negative subjects self-referred for colposcopy . colposcopic screening of subjects showing hyperkeratosis or parakeratosis with otherwise negative smears is not recommended because it does not allow detection of cytologically false-negative cin . 
oral and pharyngeal herpes simplex virus infection after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation : analysis of factors associated with infection . this study analyzed factors associated with acute oropharyngeal herpes simplex virus ( hsv ) infection in 627 patients who had undergone allogeneic bone marrow transplantation for leukemia , lymphoma , or aplastic anemia . hsv infection developed in 233 ( 37 % ) of the patients ; all but two were seropositive for hsv before transplant . sixty-two percent of the seropositive patients had at least one episode of hsv reactivation during the first 100 days after transplant . other factors that placed patients at increased risk for hsv infection were a pretransplant diagnosis of leukemia , being in remission at the time of transplant , and/or having been conditioned for transplant with chemoradiotherapy . recognition of factors that may predispose patients to hsv infection helps determine those transplant recipients who might benefit most from antiviral prophylaxis or other approaches to prevention of hsv reactivation . 
infectious diarrhea . managing a misery that is still worldwide . infectious diarrhea is the largest single cause of morbidity and mortality in the world . bacteria , viruses , and protozoan parasites are the most common causative agents . treatment in most cases of bacterial and viral diseases consists of correcting fluid loss and electrolyte imbalance by oral or parenteral rehydration . antimicrobial therapy is reserved for very ill patients only . with the exception of cryptosporidium , for which no effective agent is yet available , all protozoan infections are treatable with metronidazole . 
productive human immunodeficiency virus infection levels correlate with aids-related manifestations in the patient . mononuclear cells were obtained from 71 human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) seropositive subjects presenting and first visit either as asymptomatic or with minor symptoms and with cd4 lymphocytes greater than 550 per mm3 ( group a , 35 patients ) or as patients with aids , aids-related illnesses , or cd4 lymphocytes less than 400 per mm3 ( group b , 36 patients ) . after 1-5 years of follow-up , 13 patients of group a had essentially retained their initial status ( asymptomatics ) ; the 22 others had suffered clinical or immunological deterioration ( progressors ) . frozen cells were thawed and submitted to lethal gamma-irradiation in vitro ( 4500 rads ; 1 rad = 0.01 gy ) before they were cultured with normal phytohemagglutinin-stimulated lymphocytes to determine radiation-resistant hiv expression ex vivo ( r-hev ) . hiv antigenemia correlated with r-hev values in 142 samples ( r = 0.92 , p less than 0.001 ) but was a less sensitive predictor of disease than r-hev . r-hev was detected in all specimens from patients with major aids-related illnesses or hiv-associated cd4 lymphopenia . in 77 % of the progressors from group a , r-hev detection preceded the onset of aids-associated disease or cd4 lymphopenia by 1 year ( average ) . conversely , r-hev was low or was not detected in 36 sequential specimens from the 13 patients who remained asymptomatic over the following 2-5 years . thus , persistently low hiv expression in vivo predicted a nondiseased state , whereas higher hiv expression levels seemed necessary for disease to occur . these data indicate that r-hev is related to productive hiv infection in vivo , the latter acting as a determinant of aids-related illnesses . in view of this , measurement of hiv expression levels in the patient should be useful in antiviral efficacy trials . 
polymerase chain reaction evidence for human immunodeficiency virus 1 neutralization by passive immunization in patients with aids and aids-related complex . we tried to assess the long-term safety and potential efficacy of passive immunization in aids-related-complex ( arc ) and aids patients . we also wanted to establish whether hyperimmune plasma from healthy human immunodeficiency virus 1 ( hiv-1 ) - infected individuals clears the cell-free virus from circulation . using the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) , we were able to provide conclusive evidence that hyperimmune plasma is effective and maintains long-term neutralization of viremia . using the cell test , we found that in most patients the total antibody level was maintained ; in one of the arc patients , it actually increased 8-fold and has remained at that level for nearly 2 years . the cd4 + cell count decreased in the aids patients but was stable in the arc patient . clinically , there was an initial improvement in all patients , but five of six of the advanced/terminal aids patients had died by month 17 . our studies suggest that passive immunization may be safe in arc and aids patients . it reduces hiv-1 viremia to levels undetectable even by pcr . to advanced/terminal patients , the benefit is of limited duration , while to arc patients it may be long-term . therefore , passive immunization should start early in the disease . 
evidence for susceptibility of intrathymic t-cell precursors and their progeny carrying t-cell antigen receptor phenotypes tcr alpha beta + and tcr gamma delta + to human immunodeficiency virus infection : a mechanism for cd4 + ( t4 ) lymphocyte depletion . individuals infected by the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) demonstrate progressive depletion and qualitative dysfunction of the helper t4 ( cd4 + ) cell population . mechanisms proposed for attrition of cd4 + t cells include direct cytopathicity of these mature cells following infection as well as infection of early t-lymphocyte progenitors . the latter mechanism could lead to failure to regenerate mature functioning cd4 + t cells . the present study determines the susceptibility of thymocytes at various stages of maturity to infection with hiv-1 . various normal thymocyte populations were inoculated with hiv-1 , including unfractionated ( uf ) , cd3 - cd4 - cd8 - [ " triple negative " ( tn ) ] , cd4 + cd8 + [ " double positive " ( dp ) ] thymocytes , and thymocyte populations obtained by limited dilution cloning . cultures were studied for the presence of hiv-1 dna by polymerase chain reaction in addition to examination for reverse transcriptase activity . we determined that transformed t-cell and thymocyte cell lines completely lacking cd4 were not susceptible to infection by hiv-1 , whereas all of the following lines were : uf thymocytes ( 70-90 % cd4hi + ) ; dp thymocytes ( 99 % cd4hi + ) ; tn thymocytes ( 0 % cd4hi + ) ; and tcr alpha beta + , tcr gamma delta + , or cd16 + cd3 - ( natural killer ) thymocyte clones expressing variable levels of cd4 and representing the progeny of tn thymocytes . [ tcr alpha beta + and tcr gamma delta + refer to the chains of the t-cell antigen receptor ( tcr ) , and cd4hi refers to a strong rightward shift ( greater than 30 linear channels ) of the cd4 curve on flow cytometric analysis compared with control . ] monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) to cd4 ( t4a epitope ) but not to cd3 ( t3 ) were capable of blocking infection of mature and immature cd4hi + thymocytes . moreover , anti-cd4 ( t4a ) mabs also inhibited infection of cd4hi - tn thymocytes , indicating that these t-cell precursors -- despite their apparent " triple negativity " ( cd3 - cd4hi - cd8 - ) -- expressed sufficient cd4 molecules to become infected . cell sorter analysis with a panel of cd4 mabs demonstrated a mean shift of the mean fluorescence channel ( mfc ) with cd4 mabs on tn thymocytes of 6 + / - 4 mfc units . thus , intrathymic t-cell precursors and their progeny representing many stages of t-cell ontogeny are susceptible to infection by hiv-1 , including early tn thymocytes , which express very low levels of cd4 . infection of multiple stages and multiple subsets of the t-cell lineage in man , mediated via the cd4 molecule , may explain the inability of the t-cell pool to regenerate in the setting of progressive hiv infection . 
oral findings in hiv-infected patients attending a department of internal medicine : the contribution of intraoral examination towards the clinical management of hiv disease the occurrence of oral mucosal lesions was studied in 70 consecutive human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - infected patients , including 35 patients with aids , who had been admitted to a department of internal medicine . lesions of the oral mucosa were observed in 52 patients ( 74 per cent ) . oral candidiasis ( 50 per cent ) , hairy leukoplakia ( 14 per cent ) , periodontal disease ( 13 per cent ) , and oral kaposi 's sarcoma ( 4 per cent ) were the most common lesions . oral mucosal lesions suggestive of hiv infection were present in ten of 12 patients of unknown hiv status in whom pneumocystis carinii pneumonia was suspected . close cooperation between the medical and dental professions is recommended since accurate intraoral examination can make a valuable contribution towards the clinical management of hiv-infected patients and may influence the cdc classification of this disease . 
subacute sclerosing panencephalitis in black children -- a review of 18 cases . despite the fact that measles is severe and presents in very young black children in natal , south africa , no case of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis was reported from this region prior to 1982 . a retrospective study was therefore made over the six-year period 1982-1987 of 18 patients who presented to the king edward viii teaching hospital , durban , with clinical and laboratory features of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis . the majority of patients ( 66 per cent ) were between 8 and 12 years of age . the mean age of onset was 9.3 years , the youngest patient being four years nine months and the oldest 14 years . the male to female ratio was 1.25:1 . a previous history of primary measles infection was obtained in 44.4 per cent of cases ; 62.5 per cent occurred before the second birthday . the commonest mode of presentation was personality , intellectual and behaviour disorders ( 83 per cent ) followed by myoclonic seizures ( 61 per cent ) and choreiform movements ( 28 per cent ) . measles antibody was present in the csf in all cases . the eeg was abnormal in all recorded cases with pathognomonic periodic complexes being found in 56.2 per cent . confirmation of the diagnosis was provided by brain biopsy in two cases and by necropsy in one case . the findings of this study suggest that subacute sclerosing panencephalitis may not be as uncommon in black children as has hitherto been thought . 
preliminary report : protection of cynomolgus macaques against simian immunodeficiency virus by fixed infected-cell vaccine cynomolgus macaques were vaccinated with inactivated simian immunodeficiency virus-infected cells and ' quil-a ' as adjuvant at 0 , 4 , 8 , and 36 weeks or at 0 , 4 , 8 , and 16 weeks . 2 weeks later these animals , together with a similar unvaccinated group , were challenged with 10 mid50 ( 50 % monkey infectious doses ) of a pool of sivmac251 previously titrated in vivo . virus was repeatedly isolated from unvaccinated animals on at least five separate occasions and proviral dna was detected in circulating lymphocytes by polymerase chain reaction amplification . by contrast , virus and proviral dna were not found in any of the vaccinated animals . however , the same vaccination regimen used after live virus challenge did not eliminate virus from previously infected macaques . 
asymptomatic and neurologically symptomatic hiv-seropositive individuals : prospective evaluation with cranial mr imaging . as part of a prospective multidisciplinary study of individuals seropositive for the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) , cranial magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging was performed on 119 hiv-seropositive subjects ( 95 asymptomatic , 24 symptomatic ) and the results were correlated with clinical data . mr images regarded as positive included those showing atrophy and/or white matter lesions . on the basis of these criteria , 96 subjects had normal mr images and 23 had abnormal images . results of chi 2 analysis revealed a statistically significant difference between the asymptomatic group ( 12 of 95 [ 13 % ] with abnormal scans ) and the symptomatic group ( 11 of 24 [ 46 % ] with abnormal scans ) ( p = .001 ) . in the asymptomatic group , positive mr images showed fewer , smaller , and/or less extensive abnormalities . the researchers conclude that ( a ) mr imaging can show indirect evidence of hiv infection early in the disease , but abnormalities will be minor and seen only in a small minority of neurologically asymptomatic subjects ; ( b ) the appearance of clinically recognizable neurologic disease correlates with the mr imaging findings of increasingly severe brain atrophy and white matter lesions ; and ( c ) in some hiv-seropositive subjects , despite neurologic disease , mr images can remain normal . results indicate that routine screening with cranial mr imaging of neurologically asymptomatic hiv-seropositive individuals would likely result in a low yield of positive findings . 
the safety and immunogenicity of a human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) recombinant gp160 candidate vaccine in humans . niaid aids vaccine clinical trials network . objective : to evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of a human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) recombinant envelope glycoprotein ( rgp 160 ) candidate vaccine in humans . subjects : healthy adults ( 72 ) who were seronegative for hiv-1 were randomly assigned to one of four groups . interventions : the subjects were randomly assigned to receive 40 or 80 micrograms of rgp 160 , 10 micrograms of hepatitis b vaccine , or placebo in three doses ( on days 0 , 30 , and 180 ) , with an elective , nonblinded administration of a fourth dose on day 540 . measurements and main results : neither clinical nor laboratory toxicity was encountered during a follow-up period exceeding 21 months . no effect of immunization was noted on lymphocyte counts , mitogenic responses , or delayed-type hypersensitivity . serum antibody responses to hiv envelope proteins detected by western blot were seen in 30 of 33 subjects ( 91 % ; 95 % ci , 71 % to 97 % ) receiving either 40 - or 80-micrograms doses of rgp160 and were most commonly of weakly reactive intensity . responses were first noted by western blot after the second dose . they markedly increased in frequency after the third dose and declined over the next 12 to 18 months . the administration of a fourth dose resulted in homologous neutralizing activity in sera from 5 to 24 subjects ( 21 % ; ci , 7 % to 37 % ) as well as in complement-mediated antibody-dependent enhancement in sera from 6 of 24 subjects ( 25 % ; ci , 10 % to 42 % ) . antibody responses were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) less frequently than by western blot , and these responses persisted for a shorter time . conclusions : the administration of rgp160 was well tolerated and safe , resulted in a high rate of antibody response by western blot after the administration of the third and fourth doses , and generated serum neutralizing activity and complement-mediated antibody-dependent enhancement in some subjects after the fourth dose . 
abnormal function of cd4 + helper/inducer t lymphocytes in a patient with widespread human papillomavirus type 3-related infection . human papillomavirus-induced infections may be associated with cellular immunodeficiency . however , very little is known about the dysfunctional interactions among t lymphocytes , b lymphocytes , and antigen-presenting cells . a 30-year-old heterosexual man with a 10-year history of persistent multiple refractory flat wart lesions containing human papillomavirus type 3-related dna sequence was studied . the patient had a severe depletion of cd4 + t lymphocytes and a compensatory increase in the number of cd8 + t lymphocytes . impaired t-lymphocyte response to various stimuli was found . depletion of the increased number of cd8 + t lymphocytes , which suppressed immunoglobulin production in vitro , did not restore the impaired t-lymphocyte response . immobilized anti-cd3 beads that stimulate the t lymphocyte antigen complex in the absence of antigen-presenting cells indicated a t-lymphocyte defect , rather than a decreased antigen-presenting cell function . thus , the pronounced cellular immunodeficiency was due to abnormal function of the cd4 + helper/inducer t lymphocytes . 
induction of interleukin-6 during human immunodeficiency virus infection . interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) , a multifunctional cytokine produced in monocytes , fibroblasts , and other cell types , is induced by a variety of stimuli , including bacteria , viruses , and other cytokines . when normal monocyte cultures were exposed to a monocytotropic strain of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) , htlv-iiiba-l , significant levels of il-6 bioactivity were detected in the culture supernatants after 12 to 43 days of incubation , at a time when there was associated evidence of hiv production . similarly , when normal monocyte cultures were cocultured with peripheral blood mononuclear cells from hiv-infected individuals , hiv replication in these cultures was associated with production of il-6 . in further studies , we determined that mean serum levels of il-6 bioactivity were abnormally elevated in hiv-seropositive individuals with stage 1/2 infection ( 25.2 x/divided by 1.8 u/ml ) and stage 3/4 infection ( 46.1 x/divided by 1.7 u/ml ) when compared with normals ( 1.6 x/divided by 1.2 u/ml ) . in contrast mean serum il-6 levels were not different from normal in stage 5/6 infection ( 2.7 x/divided by 1.6 u/ml ) . a selected group of 12 hiv-seropositive individuals ( stages 1 , 2 , and 3 ) who harbored hiv capable of replicating in t cells but not in monocyte cultures had a mean serum il-6 level of 5.3 u/ml ( x/divided by 1.5 ) , a value significantly lower ( p less than .004 ) than that measured in control hiv-seropositive individuals infected with monocytropic hiv ( 39 x/divided by 1.9 u/ml ) . in addition , serum il-6 levels in hiv-seropositive individuals ( stages 1 through 6 ) correlated directly with serum immunoglobulin g ( igg ) levels ( r = .74 , p less than .001 ) . monocytes but not t cells are capable of a high level il-6 production in vitro , and monocyte-derived il-6 stimulates ig production in activated b cells . thus , hiv-seropositive individuals who often are infected with monocytotropic hiv and often display abnormally elevated serum igg levels may exhibit these abnormalities as a consequence of abnormally elevated il-6 levels induced by hiv . 
antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity against hiv-coated target cells by peripheral blood monocytes from hiv seropositive asymptomatic patients . cytotoxic effector cells like cytotoxic t cells , nk cells , monocytes/macrophages , and neutrophils can lyse directly hiv-infected or hiv-coated cells in the absence or presence of anti-hiv antibodies . therefore , these cytotoxic mechanisms can be invoked either in the control of hiv infection at early stages of the disease or in the generalized immunosuppression observed at later stages of the disease . the relationship between anti-hiv effector mechanisms and disease , however , remains elusive . the present study investigates in hiv + seropositive asymptomatic patients peripheral blood monocytes ( pbm ) - mediated antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity ( adcc ) against hiv-coated target cells in the presence of heterologous or autologous anti-hiv serum . to test for specific adcc against hiv ag , a t4 + cem.tr line resistant to tnf and macrophage-mediated cytotoxicity was selected in vitro . adcc was performed in an 18-h 51cr-release assay using cem.tr cells coated with inactivated hiv . unlike pbm from normal controls , significant adcc was observed by pbm from hiv + seropositive patients in the presence of pooled hiv + antiserum . the adcc activity was specific for hiv and was dependent on the e : t ratio and the antiserum dilution used . upon activation of pbm with rifn-gamma , both normal and hiv + pbm-mediated adcc against hiv-coated cem.tr . furthermore , adcc activity by pbm from hiv + seropositive patients in the presence of their autologous serum was examined . significant adcc activity was observed and was dependent on the e : t ratio and serum dilution used . the findings demonstrating anti-hiv adcc activity by pbm from hiv + seropositive individuals and their autologous sera support the notion that monocyte-mediated adcc may be operative in vivo . 
interferon as an agent against herpes simplex virus . the effectiveness and limitations of interferon as an antiviral agent in man is exemplified by its actions against herpes simplex types 1 and 2 . given in adequate doses parenterally before or shortly after infection , interferon can ameliorate or reduce clinical manifestations or reduce the virus yield . it usually can not completely prevent disease and may be particularly problematical if used late after infection in an acute disease . it is ineffective against the state of latent infection in ganglia . interferon may have more potential in slower virus diseases and diseases in which other pathogenetic mechanisms affected by interferon 's pleiotropic actions are operative . 
long-term combined rifn-alpha-2a and zidovudine therapy for hiv-associated kaposi 's sarcoma : clinical consequences and side effects . interferon alpha ( ifn-alpha ) has been shown to be effective in treating hiv-associated ks in at least 30 % of patients , and zidovudine has proved beneficial for aids patients . moreover , both drugs have demonstrated an inhibitory effect on hiv replication . based on the above , we combined ifn-alpha and zidovudine for treatment of hiv-associated ks in order to evaluate tolerance and clinical efficacy . twenty-one homosexual men with histologically proved hiv-associated ks were treated in an open trial with rifn-alpha-2a 18 x 10 ( 6 ) iu every second day and zidovudine 800-1200 mg/d . treatment was discontinued within the first month in six patients : three of them developed subjective intolerance , and three others contracted severe opportunistic infections or hiv-cachexia . fifteen evaluable patients received combination treatment over a period of 2-20 months ( average 10 months ) . the dosage was reduced as required based on drug-induced cytotoxicity . complete remission was observed in four patients , partial remission in three , stable disease in two , and progression in six , resulting in an overall response rate of 46 % . negative p24 expression prior to treatment was a positive predictor . although extracutaneous involvement had a negative influence on tumor remission , even patients with a mean initial t-helper cell count below 100 mm3 responded positively . in conclusion , combination therapy of rifn-alpha-2a with azt may effectively control hiv-related kaposi 's sarcoma in more than 40 % of patients . in contrast to monotherapy with ifn-alpha , patients with severely reduced immune systems will also benefit from combined treatment . 
biologic effects of interferons . if one were to review articles on ifn published between 1957 and 1967 it would become apparent that virtually none of the tenets held then are still valid today . whereas ifn was long considered to be a specific antiviral substance without any effect on normal cellular metabolism , we accept today that it affects normal cell division and many specialized cellular functions . in this respect it is not unique ; ifn is a prototype of a family of similar substances now called cytokines that all appear to function as regulatory molecules . it was held that the production of ifn constituted a specific response to a viral infection . today we believe that ifn is an integral part of a cytokine network and that they and other cytokines may be produced constitutively at low levels . these substances exert multiple effects on virtually all cells . they play an important role in host defense against viral and parasitic infections , and in the resistance to experimental tumors . ifn can be shown to exert effects on the immune system and on lymphocyte circulation . lastly , because of the multiplicity of their biologic effects , they may even contribute to the pathogenesis of certain diseases . thus , when large amounts of ifn are administered or induced in newborn mice they can cause liver , kidney , and pulmonary disease . the field of ifn and cytokine research continues to expand and there is an increasing number of therapeutic applications . twenty years from now , scientists and clinicians may be surprised that we understood so little of how ifn act and how inadequately we used them to treat disease . 
mucosal immunity induced by enhance-potency inactivated and oral polio vaccines . oral polio vaccine ( opv ) is recommended for routine immunization in the united states in part because of its ability to induce intestinal and pharyngeal immunity to reinfection . mucosal immunity produced by opv and enhanced-potency inactivated polio vaccine ( e-ipv ) was compared by challenging vaccines with type 1 opv . fewer opv ( 25 % ) than e-ipv ( 63 % ) vaccinees excreted opv virus in stool after challenge . the mean stool virus titer was higher and the duration of shedding longer among e-ipv excreters . only one e-ipv and three opv vaccinees shed virus in the pharynx after challenge . prechallenge serum neutralizing antibody levels were not statistically different among e-ipv vaccinees who did and did not shed virus ; these levels were much higher than those of opv vaccinees . poliovirus-specific iga levels in stool did not correlate with viral excretion . e-ipv was less effective than opv in preventing and limiting intestinal infection , even though it induced higher postvaccination serum antibody levels . 
measles among the amish : a comparative study of measles severity in primary and secondary cases in households . an outbreak of measles among a predominantly unvaccinated and susceptible amish population in lebanon county , pennsylvania , offered the opportunity to test the hypothesis that secondary cases in households are more severe than primary cases because the former have more intense exposure and receive a greater virus inoculum . of 130 measles cases reported between april and june 1988 , 119 ( 92 % ) constituted a study of disease severity . severity was assessed by determining frequency and duration of symptoms , length of any hospitalization , and number of days in bed . in a univariate analysis , fewer secondary cases had conjunctivitis ( relative risk [ rr ] , 0.67 ; 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 0.48-0 .96 ) and headache ( rr , 0.37 ; ci , 0.15-0 .86 ) , but more had earache ( rr , 9.69 ; ci , 1.8-202 .9 ) compared with primary cases . secondary cases had a shorter mean duration of coryza ( 4.0 vs. 5.0 days , student 's t test , p = .08 ) . however , a logistic regression model that matched by family and controlled for age and sex indicated that there were no significant differences in measles severity among primary and secondary cases in households . 
use of brain biopsy for diagnostic evaluation of patients with suspected herpes simplex encephalitis : a statistical model and its clinical implications . niaid collaborative antiviral study group . using the decision analysis technique and multivariate regression methods , a statistical model was established to define the utility of brain biopsy for diagnostic evaluation of patients with suspected herpes simplex encephalitis ( hse ) . two strategies were compared : strategy i , brain biopsy with acyclovir ( acv ) treatment for 10 days in biopsy-positive patients , and strategy ii , acv therapy without brain biopsy . strategy i resulted in a greater 6-month survival rate when the likelihood of patients having hse was less than 70 % . based on the current estimated prevalence of hse ( for patients with suspected hse ) of 35 % , strategy i showed a slight advantage of a 3.2 % increase in 6-month survival rate . an individual patient 's chance of a positive brain biopsy can be predicted using a mathematical equation based on several important clinical assessments . this equation in conjunction with the decision analysis is a useful guide for the clinical management of patients with regard to brain biopsy . 
characterization of herpes simplex virus type 2 latency-associated transcription in human sacral ganglia and in cell culture . the ability of herpes simplex virus type 2 ( hsv-2 ) to establish latency in and reactivate from sacral dorsal root sensory ganglia is the basis for recurrent genital herpes . the expression of hsv-2 genes in latently infected human sacral ganglia was investigated by in situ hybridization . hybridizations with a probe from the long repeat region of hsv-2 revealed strong nuclear signals overlying neurons in sacral ganglia from five of nine individuals . the rna detected overlaps with the transcript for infected cell protein o but in the opposite , or " anti-sense , " orientation . these observations mimic those made previously with hsv-1 in human trigeminal ganglia and confirm the recent findings during latency in hsv-2-infected mice and guinea pigs . northern hybridization of rna from infected vero cells showed that an hsv-2 latency-associated transcript was similar in size to the larger ( 1.85 kb ) latency transcript of hsv-1 . thus , hsv-1 and hsv-2 latency in human sensory ganglia are similar , if not identical , in terms of their cellular localization and pattern of transcription . 
exacerbation of bacterial toxicity to infant ferrets by influenza virus : possible role in sudden infant death syndrome [ published erratum appears in j infect dis 1991 jul ; 164 ( 1 ) :232 ] of several toxins examined , only staphylococcal alpha and gamma toxin , endotoxin , and diphtheria toxins were lethal for 5-day-old ferrets . their toxicities were enhanced in animals infected at 1 day old with influenza virus , from 3-fold with staphylococcal gamma toxin through 14-fold for staphylococcal alpha toxin , 84-fold for endotoxin , and 219-fold for diphtheria toxin . no increased viral replication occurred in any tissue ; thus the effects of the toxins were exacerbated by the infection , not vice versa . neonates died suddenly without clinical symptoms as in human babies dying from the sudden infant death syndrome ( sids ) . pathologic examination showed inflammation in the upper respiratory tract , lung edema and collapse , and early bronchopneumonia in the toxin - and influenza virus-treated animals but not in those treated with toxin or virus alone . thus , bacterial toxins could play a role in sids , this being more likely with a concomitant influenza virus infection . 
serologic discrimination of human t cell lymphotropic virus infection by using a synthetic peptide-based enzyme immunoassay . synthetic peptides corresponding with unique regions of the envelope glycoproteins ( gp46 ) of human t cell lymphotropic viruses ( htlvs ) were used in an enzyme immunoassay to determine if htlv-i and - ii infections could be discriminated . two synthetic htlv-i sequence-derived peptides , env-1 ( amino acids 191-215 ) and env-5 ( amino acids 242-257 ) , reacted with 92 % and 100 % of the serum specimens ( n = 52 ) from htlv-i-infected persons , respectively . although a small percentage ( 8.6 % ) of serum specimens from persons infected with htlv-ii cross-reacted with env-1 , none of these specimens reacted with env-5 . peptide env-2 encoded by the envelope region of htlv-ii ( amino acids 187-210 ) reacted with serum specimens from both htlv-i ( 94 % ) - and htlv-ii ( 74 % ) - infected patients , whereas env-6 , another htlv-ii peptide ( amino acids 238-254 ) , reacted with less than 6 % of the specimens . therefore , the env-5 peptide with amino acid sequence serproasnvalservalproserserserserthrproleuleutyr represents an immunodominant domain of htlv-i that is recognized by serum antibodies from all htlv-i-infected persons . moreover , the env-5-based elisa allows a categorical distinction between the closely related htlv-i and - ii infections . 
the role of secretory immunity in hepatitis a virus infection . because the role of intestinal immunity remains uncertain in hepatitis a , samples of feces and saliva from infected primates and humans were tested for virus neutralizing activity . only two of eight owl monkeys infected by the intragastric route developed neutralizing antibody detectable in extracts of feces collected up to 88 days after viral challenge , although serum neutralizing antibody was present in all monkeys by day 33 . similarly , neutralizing antibody was detected in fecal extracts from none of three experimentally infected human volunteers and only 1 of 15 naturally infected humans . the single positive human specimen contained occult blood . only 2 of 19 saliva samples from naturally infected humans had significant viral neutralizing activity . in contrast , neutralizing antibody to type 2 poliovirus was present in most human fecal or saliva specimens tested . these data suggest that intestinal immunity does not play a significant role in protection against hepatitis a. 
molecular pathologic study of human papillomavirus infection in inverted papilloma and squamous cell carcinoma of the nasal cavities and paranasal sinuses . nasal inverted papilloma is a rare benign tumor occasionally associated with squamous cell carcinoma . to determine the etiological role of human papillomavirus in inverted papilloma , and to clarify the relationship between human papillomavirus and malignant transformation of this benign tumor , we retrospectively analyzed inverted papillomas from 26 patients , 7 of whom had squamous cell carcinoma . we used an immunohistochemical method and molecular pathologic techniques , or dot-blot hybridization of dna extracted from paraffin-embedded tissues , in situ hybridization , and polymerase chain reaction . human papillomavirus was detected in 5 of 26 patients ( 19 % ) , 3 patients with human papillomavirus 11 and 2 patients with human papillomavirus 16 . the latter 2 patients had inverted papillomas associated with squamous cell carcinoma . we speculate that human papillomavirus may be related to the malignant transformation of inverted papillomas . 
headache and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . because the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) virus is neurotropic , physicians will continue to see a rise in the number of neurologic complications of this syndrome . much of this increase will be accompanied by headache , not only as a primary symptom of hiv infection or opportunistic disease but also as a result of diagnostic tests and therapeutic efforts . complete understanding of the ramifications of headache in aids will be important in the 1990s as we continue to treat a younger population , usually affected by benign vascular and muscle contraction-type headache . 
bismuth subsalicylate in the treatment of acute diarrhea in children : a clinical study . bismuth subsalicylate ( bss ) and placebo were evaluated in a double-blind , placebo-controlled study as adjunct to rehydration therapy in 123 children , aged 4 to 28 months , hospitalized with acute diarrhea . the dosing regimen was 20 mg/kg five times daily for 5 days . significant benefits were noted in the bss group compared with placebo as manifested by decreases in stool frequency and stool weights and an improvement in stool consistency , significant improvement in clinical well-being , and shortening of the disease duration . patients treated with bss had a significant reduction in duration of hospital stay ( 6.9 days ) compared with placebo-treated patients ( 8.5 days ) . also , intravenous fluid requirements decreased significantly more rapidly and to a greater degree in the bss-treated group . bismuth subsalicylate was associated with clearance of pathogenic escherichia coli from the stools in 100 % of cases but was not different from placebo in rotavirus elimination . bismuth subsalicylate was well tolerated with no reported adverse effects . blood bismuth and serum salicylate levels were well below levels considered toxic . in this study , bss provided effective adjunctive therapy for acute diarrhea , allowing children to get well sooner with less demand on the nursing and hospital staff . 
risk of respiratory illness associated with day-care attendance : a nationwide study . the risk of respiratory and other illnesses in children ( age groups : 6 weeks through 17 months , 18 through 35 months , and 36 through 59 months ) in various types of day-care facilities was studied . children considered exposed to day care were those who were enrolled in day care with at least one unrelated child for at least 10 hours per week in each of the 4 weeks before the interview ; unexposed children were not enrolled in any regular child care with unrelated children and did not have siblings younger than 5 years of age receiving regular care with unrelated children . although an increased risk of respiratory illness was associated with attending day care for children in all three age groups , this risk was statistically significant only for children 6 weeks through 17 months of age ( odds ratio = 1.6 ; 95 % confidence interval = 1.1 to 2.4 ) and children 18 through 35 months of age who had no older siblings ( odds ratio = 3.4 ; 95 % confidence interval = 2.0 to 6.0 ) . in contrast , day-care attendance was not associated with an increased risk of respiratory illness in children 18 through 35 months of age with older siblings ( odds ratio = 1.0 ) . for children aged 6 weeks through 17 months , the exposure to older siblings was associated with an increased risk of respiratory illness ; however , for children aged 36 through 59 months , older siblings were protective against respiratory illness . in addition , for the children in each age group currently in day care , increased duration of past exposure to day care was associated with a decreased risk of respiratory illness . 
pediatric emergency room visits : a risk factor for acquiring measles . in recent years , measles outbreaks have occurred among unimmunized children in inner cities in the united states . from may 1988 through june 1989 , 1214 measles cases were reported in los angeles , and from october 1988 through june 1989 , 1730 cases were reported in houston . more than half of cases were in children younger than 5 years of age , most of whom were unvaccinated . of cases of measles in preschool-aged children , nearly one fourth in los angeles and more than one third in houston were reported by one inner-city emergency room . to evaluate whether emergency room visits were a risk factor for acquiring measles , in los angeles , 35 measles patients and 109 control patients with illnesses other than measles , and in houston , 49 measles patients and 128 control patients , who visited these emergency rooms , were enrolled in case-control studies . control patients were matched to case patients for ethnicity , age , and week of visit . records were reviewed to determine whether case patients had visited the emergency room during the period of potential measles exposure , which was defined as 10 to 18 days before rash onset , and whether control patients had visited 10 to 18 days before their enrollment visit . in los angeles , 23 % of case patients and 5 % of control patients ( odds ratio = 5.2 , 95 % confidence interval = 1.7 , 15.9 ; p less than .01 ) , and in houston , 41 % of case patients and 6 % of control patients ( odds ratio = 8.4 , 95 % confidence interval = 3.3 , 21.2 ; p less than .01 ) , visited the emergency room during these periods . 
malignant lymphomas in cynomolgus monkeys infected with simian immunodeficiency virus . malignant lymphomas were observed in 38 % ( 9 of 24 ) of simian immunodeficiency virus ( siv ) - infected cynomolgus monkeys ( macaca fascicularis ) 5 to 15 months after inoculation with siv strain smm3 . lymphomagenesis in the siv-infected monkeys was not related directly to the siv-infectious dose given . all siv-infected animals developed severe immunodeficiency . no significant difference in immunodeficiency was observed between tumor-bearing and non-tumor-bearing animals . in contrast , no lymphomas were observed in a comparable group of hiv-2-infected monkeys , which did not develop immunodeficiency ; nor did the noninfected control monkeys . all 9 siv-related tumors were high-grade b-cell lymphoblastic or pleomorphic lymphomas with extranodal , disseminated growth . most tumors showed marked infiltration by monocytes and cd8 + t lymphocytes . occasional tumor infiltrating cells showed immunohistochemical reaction for siv . the cells of two tumors were established in vitro and shown to be of b-cell phenotype . the tumor cell cultures showed no reverse transcriptase activity and no evidence of virus infection by electron microscopy . our observations indicate that siv-induced immunodeficiency in cynomolgus monkeys also mimics hiv infection and aids in humans with regard to increased lymphomagenesis and type of lymphomas . 
hiv-associated myocarditis . pathology and immunopathology . autopsy studies of aids ( acquired immune deficiency syndrome ) patients showed a high incidence of myocarditis . to attain a better understanding of the pathogenesis , the pathology and immunopathology of nine endomyocardial biopsies with active myocarditis from 18 human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - positive patients were systematically characterized . these were compared with 17 biopsies with active myocarditis from patients without aids risk factors . in both groups , the myocarditis consisted of either multifocal or interstitial infiltrates of small lymphocytes and isolated myocyte necrosis . the lymphocytes consisted of t cells ( cd2 + , cd3 + ) and cells not identified by the usual markers . b cells , monocytes , cd4 + cells , and natural killer ( nk ) cells were only rarely observed . all of the hiv-positive patients but only 7 of 17 non-hiv patients had cd8 + lymphocytes in the infiltrates ( p less than 0.01 ) . the arteriolar endothelium demonstrated induced class i ( hla-a , b , c ) and ii ( hla-dr ) antigens in both groups . in situ hybridization for hiv-1 failed to identify the virus in the specimens . the immunopathology is consistent with a cell-mediated injury to the myocytes in hiv-positive patients and is similar to a subgroup of myocarditis in the non-hiv group . 
the relationship between viral rna , myelin-specific mrnas , and demyelination in central nervous system disease during theiler 's virus infection . the da strain of theiler 's murine encephalomyelitis virus ( dav ) causes a chronic demyelinating disease in susceptible mouse strains . to elucidate the pathogenesis of dav-induced demyelination , the authors investigated the spatial and chronologic relationship between virus ( antigen and rna ) , myelin-specific mrnas , and demyelination in dav-infected mice using immunohistochemistry , in situ hybridization , and slot blot hybridization analyses . in spinal cord white matter , viral rna was detected easily in ventral root entry zones 1 to 2 weeks after infection . viral rna increased to maximum levels by 4 weeks after infection , which was associated with inflammation and mild demyelination . at 8 to 12 weeks after infection , when demyelination became most extensive , viral rna was significantly decreased . demyelination did not chronologically or spatially parallel the presence of viral rna within the spinal cord . decrease of myelin-specific mrnas , including myelin-basic protein and proteolipid protein mrnas , was observed within the demyelinating lesions with or without detectable viral rna . these results indicate that a viral infection of white matter in the early phase of the infection initiates spinal cord disease leading to demyelination , but later an ongoing immunopathologic process contributes to the presence of extensive demyelination . 
glucocorticoid level and neuropsychiatric symptoms in homosexual men with hiv infection . objective : there is a controversial literature suggesting that stress , anxiety , and depression are harmful to the immune system and therefore to health . preclinical studies indicate that activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal ( hpa ) axis by stress may be responsible for immunocompromise . the goal of this study was to assess this phenomenon in human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . method : homosexual men in the community who did not meet modified centers for disease control criteria for acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) were recruited for the study ; 113 of the men were hiv positive and 77 were hiv negative . very few of the men studied suffered from depression or anxiety disorder at the time of the first assessment . twenty-four-hour urinary free cortisol levels were obtained from the 112 hiv-positive and 75 hiv-negative men whose 24-hour urine volumes were 500 ml or more . cortisol levels were correlated with measures of medical , immunological , neurological , and psychiatric status . results : small but significant correlations between 24-hour urinary free cortisol and medical status , level of depression , and level of anxiety were found in the hiv-positive group . there was no relationship between cortisol level and the number of cd4 + or cd8 + t lymphocytes or the cd4-cd8 ratio . conclusions : although hpa activation may be associated with stress in cases of hiv infection , it does not seem to be associated with further loss of cd4 + t lymphocytes . subjects with hiv infection with the most evidence of medical complications may also be the most anxious and depressed . 
human cytomegalovirus viraemia in hiv-1-seropositive patients at various clinical stages of infection . eighty-two hiv-1-seropositive subjects were examined for the presence and quantification of human cytomegalovirus ( hcmv ) in peripheral blood polymorphonuclear leukocytes ( pmnl ) by polymerase chain reaction , culture and immunofluorescence in order to investigate the relationship between viraemia and immunosuppression . patients were divided into three groups : ( 1 ) asymptomatic subjects with greater than 400 x 10 ( 6 ) / l cd4 lymphocytes ( n = 30 ) ; ( 2 ) asymptomatic subjects with less than 400 x 10 ( 6 ) / l of cd4 lymphocytes and zidovudine ( n = 20 ) , and ( 3 ) aids-related complex ( arc ) / aids patients on zidovudine ( n = 32 ) . evidence of hcmv infection in circulating pmnl was found in 15 out of 29 arc/aids patients examined ( 51.7 % ) , whereas no infection was detected among the 50 asymptomatic hiv-1-seropositive subjects . hcmv-related symptoms were found only where the number of infected pmnl was greater than 50 per 2 x 10 ( 5 ) cells . 
extrapulmonary and disseminated tuberculosis in hiv-1-seropositive patients presenting to the acute medical services in nairobi . we studied 506 consecutive adult acute medical admissions to hospital in nairobi ; 95 ( 18.8 % ) were seropositive for hiv-1 , and 43 new cases of active tuberculosis ( tb ) were identified . tb was clearly associated with hiv infection , occurring in 17.9 % of seropositive patients compared with 6.3 % of seronegatives [ odds ratio ( or ) 3.2 ; 95 % confidence limits ( cl ) 1.6-6 .5 ] . extrapulmonary disease was more common in seropositive than seronegative tb patients ( nine out of 17 versus five out of 26 ; or 4.7 ; 95 % cl 1.01-23 .6 ) ; this accounted for most of the excess cases of tb seen in seropositive patients . mycobacteraemia was demonstrated in two of eight seropositive tb patients but in none of 11 seronegative tb patients . no atypical mycobacteria were isolated . the world health organization ( who ) clinical case definition for african aids did not discriminate well between seropositive and seronegative tb cases . five out of seven seropositive women with active tuberculosis had delivered children in the preceding 6 months and were lactating , compared with only one out of eight seronegative tuberculous women . an association between recent childbirth , hiv immunosuppression and the development of tb is suggested . 
neuropsychometric performance of asymptomatic hiv-infected subjects . the objective of this study was to determine whether there are measurable differences in neuropsychometric performances between hiv-positive asymptomatic subjects and high-risk hiv-negative individuals . we carried out concurrent neuropsychological testing of hiv-positive subjects screened for drug treatment protocols at a clinical research center and hiv-negative subjects seeking confidential testing . fifty hiv-negative and 33 hiv-positive subjects who did not admit to use of central nervous system ( cns ) - active drugs , more than one drink of alcohol per day , or drug use comprised the final group for analysis . a neuropsychological test battery designed to evaluate verbal memory , motor function , orientation and attention was administered to all subjects . in addition , affective state was assessed with the beck depression inventory . multivariate analysis of variance indicated no difference in the performance of the two groups . only one subtest , the wechsler adult intelligence scale digit span ( forward ) reached a level of significant difference ( p less than 0.05 ) by univariate analysis . we conclude that neuropsychometric performance of asymptomatic hiv-positive subjects can not be distinguished from that of high-risk hiv-negative subjects by a battery of traditional neuropsychological tests . 
infection of cynomolgus monkeys with hiv-2 protects against pathogenic consequences of a subsequent simian immunodeficiency virus infection . simian immunodeficiency virus ( siv ) infection in cynomolgus macaques leads to severe immunodeficiency with a fatal outcome . in contrast , hiv-2 infects these primates without apparently causing any immunological abnormalities . in this study three cynomolgus monkeys were experimentally infected with hiv-2 strain sbl-k135 and 168 days later challenged with 10-100 animal infectious doses of the closely related siv strain sm to study protective immunity . at the time of siv challenge the hiv-2-infected monkeys had neutralizing antibodies against hiv-2 , but virus could no longer be recovered from their peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( pbmcs ) and no clinical symptoms or decrease in cd4 + lymphocytes were observed . follow-up for 9 months after challenge with siv showed that the hiv-2-infected monkeys were protected against siv-induced immunodeficiency ( no decrease of cd4 + lymphocytes ) and lymphadenopathy . however , they were not resistant to siv infection since virus could be recovered from their pbmcs and they developed anamnestic antibody responses . four naive control monkeys which were inoculated with the same dose of siv became persistently infected and developed a decrease of the absolute numbers of cd4 + cells and showed a marked lymphadenopathy . two out of four control animals died 58-265 days postinfection with an immunosuppressive disease . immunohistochemical examination showed abundant viral antigen in lymph-node biopsies from the siv-infected control monkeys but absence of siv or hiv-2 antigens in the biopsies from the three hiv-2-preinfected and siv-superinfected monkeys . the present study demonstrates possibilities for induction of immunity against immunodeficiency induced by a primate lentivirus , a concept with application also to hiv infection and aids in man . 
enhancement of erythrocytic adenosine deaminase following treatment of aids-related complex/aids patients with zidovudine . the levels of adenosine deaminase ( ada ) were determined in the erythrocytes of 10 patients with sexually transmitted hiv-1 infection [ five cases with aids-related complex ( arc ) and five with aids ] before and after therapy with zidovudine ( azidothymidine ; azt ) . a linear increase in ada activity was observed during the second and third months of zidovudine treatment , with a final increase of about threefold after 3 months of drug administration . the concentration of adenosine triphosphate ( atp ) was significantly lower in the erythrocytes of the same group of patients with respect to healthy controls , and a further decrease was noted after 3 months of zidovudine treatment . the results obtained indicate that treatment of arc/aids subjects with zidovudine induces metabolic changes which could be responsible for the development of anaemia , an adverse effect frequently associated with zidovudine therapy . 
poverty and hiv seropositivity : the poor are more likely to be infected . we analyzed demographic and behavioral risk factors for hiv seropositivity using data from 3601 clients of the main hiv counseling and testing clinic for high-risk people in seattle , washington , usa . clients with lower income were found to be more likely to be hiv seropositive , before and after controlling for other demographic and risk factors with logistic regression . this result supports the hypothesis that the impoverished are at increased risk for hiv infection due to the physical and social circumstances in which their poverty places them . these may include poor access to risk-reduction information and less support for implementation of risk-reduction strategies . 
delayed detection of congenital hearing loss in high risk infants objective -- to examine the methods used to investigate children at high risk of congenital hearing impairment , and to see whether the introduction of evoked response audiometry has reduced the mean age at which hearing loss is identified . design -- clinicians who notified children to the national congenital rubella surveillance programme were asked retrospectively to complete a questionnaire examining the methods used to identify hearing impairment and the age at testing in two consecutive five year cohorts . the presence or absence of hearing loss was confirmed by obtaining the results of audiometric evaluations and , whenever possible , a recent pure tone audiogram . setting -- the united kingdom . patients -- children notified to the national congenital rubella surveillance programme and born in 1978-87 in whom igm specific for rubella was detected shortly after birth . main outcome measures -- the age at which hearing loss was identified and the degree of loss in decibels at 250 , 500 , 1000 , 2000 , and 4000 hz measured by pure tone audiometry . results -- 61 ( 52 % ) of 117 children born in 1978-82 had a hearing impairment of 40 db or greater in both ears . the mean loss was 93 db . in the following five years 75 ( 47 % ) of 159 children had impaired hearing , their mean loss being 96 db . the age at which the hearing loss was confirmed decreased from 11.6 to 9.8 months as a result of earlier auditory evoked response testing . nevertheless , only eight ( 13 % ) of the children with hearing impairment born in 1978-82 and 16 ( 21 % ) of those born in 1983-7 had these tests performed in the first six months of life . conclusions -- unacceptable delays in identifying hearing loss occurred in this high risk group because of failure to arrange auditory evoked response testing in early infancy . evoked response audiometry is sensitive and specific and should be undertaken within the first few months of life for all infants known to be at risk of sensorineural hearing loss . 
course of hiv-i infection in a cohort of homosexual and bisexual men : an 11 year follow up study . objective -- to characterise the natural history of sexually transmitted hiv-i infection in homosexual and bisexual men . design -- cohort study . setting -- san francisco municipal sexually transmitted disease clinic . patients -- cohort included 6705 homosexual and bisexual men originally recruited from 1978 to 1980 for studies of sexually transmitted hepatitis b. this analysis is of 489 cohort members who were either hiv-i seropositive on entry into the cohort ( n = 312 ) or seroconverted during the study period and had less than or equal to 24 months between the dates of their last seronegative and first seropositive specimens ( n = 177 ) . a subset of 442 of these men was examined in 1988 or 1989 or had been reported to have developed aids . main outcome measures -- development of clinical signs and symptoms of hiv-i infection , including aids , aids related complex , asymptomatic generalised lymphadenopathy , and no signs or symptoms of infection . measurements and main results -- of the 422 men examined in 1988 or 1989 or reported as having aids , 341 had been infected from 1977 to 1980 ; 49 % ( 167 ) of these men had died of aids , 10 % ( 34 ) were alive with aids , 19 % ( 65 ) had aids related complex , 3 % ( 10 ) had asymptomatic generalised lymphadenopathy , and 19 % ( 34 ) had no clinical signs or symptoms of hiv-i infection . cumulative risk of aids by duration of hiv-i infection was analysed for all 489 men by the kaplan-meier method . of these 489 men , 226 ( 46 % ) had been diagnosed as having aids . we estimated that 13 % of cohort members will have developed aids within five years of seroconversion , 51 % within 10 years , and 54 % within 11.1 years . conclusion -- our analysis confirming the importance of duration of infection to clinical state and the high risk of aids after infection underscores the importance of continuing efforts both to prevent transmission of hiv-i and to develop further treatments to slow or stall the progression of hiv-i infection to aids . 
the chest roentgenogram in pulmonary tuberculosis patients seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 . to determine the impact that co-infection with hiv has on the radiographic presentation of pulmonary tuberculosis , we examined the chest roentgenograms obtained before treatment in 225 hiv-tested adult haitians with bacillary ( smear or culture or both ) positive pulmonary tuberculosis . there were 67 hiv-seropositive and 158 hiv-seronegative patients . intrathoracic adenopathy alone was more common and parenchymal infiltrates less common in hiv-seropositive patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . although a parenchymal infiltrate was less likely to be cavitating in the hiv-seropositive group ( p less than 0.05 ) when cavitary parenchymal disease was present , hiv seropositivity did not affect the number of cavities ( single or multiple ) or the size of the largest cavity . patients with aids were significantly more likely to have a chest radiographic pattern consistent with primary tuberculosis ( 80 percent ) than hiv-seropositive patients without aids ( 30 percent ) , and the latter were significantly more likely to have such a pattern than hiv-seronegative patients ( 11 percent ) ( p less than 0.05 ) . the hiv-seropositive patients were equally infectious , regardless of the pattern of disease ( primary vs postprimary ) . even though pulmonary tuberculosis in an hiv-seropositive adult probably results from reactivation of dormant foci or reinfection , the pattern on the chest roentgenogram often suggests primary disease , especially if the patient has aids . 
pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . rare cause of hemoptysis . pneumocystis carinii pneumonia is a frequent manifestation of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . it commonly presents with nonproductive cough , fever , and dyspnea . we report this case of p carinii pneumonia presenting with hemoptysis , since to the best of our knowledge , hemoptysis has not been reported to be a presenting manifestation of p carinii pneumonia . autopsy revealed multiple lung cavities . 
latent hiv-1 infection in enriched populations of blood monocytes and t cells from seropositive patients . the extent of latent hiv-1 infection in blood t cells and monocytes of 23 seropositive individuals was examined using dna amplification ( pcr ) of hiv-1 sequences . amplified dna was found in at least one cell type in all seropositives tested , including 13 asymptomatic , 5 arc , and 5 aids patients . amplification with two or more primer sets from the gag , env , ltr occurred in 21 ( 91 % ) patients ' t cells and 17 ( 74 % ) patients ' monocytes . however , amplification with the ltr primers in monocytes was uncommon . among four patients tested , amplified dna continued to be detected after a greater than one thousand-fold dilution ( less than 500 cells ) of both t cell and monocyte lysates . repeat analysis after 7-9 mo in five seropositives yielded similar findings in t cells and monocytes , but some variation in the efficacy of amplification with individual primers occurred . there was no difference in those 10 patients who were taking azt , compared to those who were untreated . our results indicate that a fraction ( less than 1 % ) of both t cells and monocytes in blood carry a latent infection in all stages of hiv-1 disease and can serve as reservoirs throughout azt therapy . 
elevated serum concentrations of ige antibodies to environmental antigens in hiv-seropositive male homosexuals . forty-five homosexual male subjects with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection , who received care during a 4-month period in an ambulatory center for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , were classified according to their principal presentation with characteristic secondary infections ( cdc group iv c , n = 28 ) , cancers ( iv d , n = 10 ) , or limited or no symptoms ( groups ii , iii , iv a , or iv b , n = 7 ) . the incidence of allergic rhinitis and conjunctivitis increased after hiv seroconversion by approximately twofold in patients of groups iv c and iv d. the mean serum concentration of ige was significantly higher for group iv c than for the other hiv-seropositive groups and for a control group of 45 hiv-seronegative homosexual male subjects from the same community who were studied concurrently . more patients in groups iv c and iv d had positive rasts for a panel of environmental antigens than patients in the other hiv-seropositive groups and the hiv-seronegative control group . patients with aids presenting with typical secondary infections thus have a high frequency of some clinical and laboratory manifestations of allergic diseases . 
swine influenza virus infections . transmission from ill pigs to humans at a wisconsin agricultural fair and subsequent probable person-to-person transmission . in september 1988 , a previously healthy 32-year-old pregnant woman was hospitalized for pneumonia and died 8 days later . the only pathogen detected was an influenza virus antigenically related to the swine influenza virus ( siv ) . four days before illness onset , the patient visited a county fair swine exhibition where there was widespread influenzalike illness among the swine . to detect other persons who were possibly infected by contact with the ill swine , we measured serum siv hemagglutination-inhibition antibody titer in 25 swine exhibitors who were 9 to 19 years old . nineteen ( 76 % ) had siv hemagglutination-inhibition titers of 20 or greater . antibody was undetectable in serum samples from 25 swine exhibitors from a neighboring county . additional studies suggest that one to three health care personnel who had contact with the patient developed influenzalike illnesses with laboratory evidence of siv infection . an outbreak of apparent siv infection in swine resulted in multiple human infections , and , although no recognized community outbreak resulted , there was evidence of virus transmission from the patient to health care personnel . 
evaluation of enzyme immunoassays for antibody to human t-lymphotropic viruses type i/ii . to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of htlv-i/ii assays , serum from 1100 pregnant haitian women was tested with seven commercially available htlv i/ii assays . serum that was found to be reactive in any assay was analysed by western blot and all indeterminate samples were further characterised by radioimmunoprecipitation assays ( ripa ) . 59 ( 5.4 % ) samples were htlv i/ii antibody positive by western blot and/or ripa . the sensitivity of these seven assays ranged from 93.2 % to 100 % . with the ' recombinant htlv-i ' ( cambridge bioscience ) and ' serodia htlv-i ' ( fujirebio ) assays having the highest sensitivity ( 100 % ) . the specificity of these assays ranged from 98.4 % to 100 % , with the abbott assay having the highest specificity ( 99.5 % , 100 % ) according to two different methods of evaluation . whether the antigens used in any assay were whole disrupted virus or recombinant gene products made no difference . the low positive predictive values of some of these assays ( 71.8-91 .7 % ) , even in a high prevalence population , and the need for ripa to test indeterminate sera , indicate that for routine screening of blood donors there is still room for improvement both in screening and confirmatory assays for htlv-i/ii . 
unexplained rabies in three immigrants in the united states . a virologic investigation background . extensive investigation of three patients who died of rabies in the united states failed to reveal any source of exposure to the disease . the three patients had immigrated to the united states from areas in laos , the philippines , and mexico where rabies is endemic . methods . we studied rabies viruses isolated from the three patients , other patients with a known source of exposure , and animals in the united states , thailand ( as a proxy for laos ) , the philippines , and mexico . the viruses were characterized by indirect immunofluorescence and neutralization tests according to their reactions to panels of monoclonal antibodies . transcribed complementary dna from these isolates was amplified by the polymerase chain reaction ; the dna product was then analyzed by differential digestion with restriction enzymes . results . the viral isolate from each of the three patients was a rabies variant with distinctive antigenic or genetic characteristics . for each of the three isolates , identical variants were found in specimens from rabid animals obtained from or near the country in which the patient lived before immigrating to the united states . none of these variants were found among the isolates collected from rabid animals in the united states . conclusions . rabies infection in these three patients did not originate in the united states but resulted from exposures in laos , the philippines , and mexico . since the three patients had lived in the united states for 4 years , 6 years , and 11 months , our findings suggest that the onset of the clinical manifestations of rabies occurred after long incubation periods . 
tropical spastic paraparesis-like illness occurring in a patient dually infected with hiv-1 and htlv-ii . we describe a 34-year-old man from southern florida with a history of intravenous drug use , dually infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) and human t-lymphotropic virus type ii ( htlv-ii ) , who developed a myelopathy clinically indistinguishable from htlv-i-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis ( ham/tsp ) . this myelopathy was characterized by spastic lower extremity weakness , distal paresthesias , sensory loss with a discrete thoracic level to pinprick , back pain , impotence , and sphincter disturbances . nerve conduction studies revealed an associated mixed axonal and demyelinative neuropathy . despite a lack of response to 10 months of zidovudine therapy , the myeloneuropathy improved dramatically 2 years after its onset in the absence of any therapeutic intervention . 
human papillomaviruses : pediatric perspectives on a family of multifaceted tumorigenic pathogens as summarized here human papillomaviruses are associated with a wide spectrum of epithelial lesions , ranging from benign warts to invasive carcinomas . they have been difficult to study in part because they have not yet been propagated in tissue culture . fortunately advances in molecular biology have allowed characterization of hpv genomes and identification of some hpv gene functions . in addition to their clinical importance hpvs represent an important tool for exploring virus-cell interactions , gene expression , cellular differentiation and cancer . hpv infections are not only common but also difficult to treat and prevent . depending on the hpv type and location , the modes of hpv transmission may involve casual physical contact , sexual contact and perinatal vertical transmission . hpv dna genomes replicate at a low copy number in basal cells and , as most clinicians know , are difficult to eradicate . there is often a long latent period and subclinical infections , and hpv dna can be found in normal tissue adjacent to lesions . hpvs can cause widely disseminated lesions , especially in the immunocompromised host and in epidermodysplasia verruciformis . aside from the rare carcinomas , the most serious life-threatening hpv-induced illness in children is recurrent respiratory papillomatosis . somewhat surprisingly in malignant lesions hpv dna is also found as fragments incorporated into the cellular genome . unlike retroviruses such as human immunodeficiency virus which integrate into the cellular genome as part of their life cycle , hpv integration is a terminal event for viral replication . such integration may be critical , however , for viral-induced abnormal cell growth . perhaps the most important implication of the finding that some anogenital cancers are in part sexually transmitted infectious diseases is that they may be preventable . the data overwhelmingly suggest that avoidance of exposure to hpv via abstinence or monogamy in both partners markedly reduces the risk of cervical cancer . a more realistic goal , however is prevention of hpv transmission by the use of barrier method contraceptives , which may be protective against development of cervical carcinoma . the america association of pediatrics committee on adolescents has outlined the obligation of pediatricians to be actively involved in adolescent education on sexually transmitted diseases . certainly a fundamental knowledge of hpv epidemiology , the risks of hpv-related sequelae and prevention of hpv infection are important considerations for adolescent sexuality . although helpful , such awareness alone falls far short of making an impact on sexual behaviors . a significant reduction in hpv infection rates could be achieved only by inundating adolescents at an early age with a highly visible society-wide campaign directed at these issues . 
herpes zoster ophthalmicus and iris cysts . herpes zoster ophthalmicus has been associated with numerous complications such as neuropathy , keratitis , anterior uveitis , and neuralgia . to my knowledge , there have been no reports of secondary iris cyst formation . i hereby report the case of a patient who developed an iris cyst during a herpes zoster ophthalmicus infection . 
childhood blindness in peru . a survey of childhood blindness in peruvian children was done . although most causes of blindness were due to congenital and hereditary conditions , measles accounted for almost 10 % of blindness . with widespread measles immunization , this preventable cause of blindness in children can be eliminated or dramatically reduced . 
neuromuscular function in polio survivors at one-year follow-up [ published erratum appears in arch phys med rehabil 1991 mar ; 72 ( 3 ) :213 ] many polio survivors complain of progressive loss of strength , work capacity , endurance , and ability to recover from fatiguing activity . these variables were measured initially and one year later in the quadriceps muscles of 28 symptomatic and 16 asymptomatic persons who had polio and 38 control individuals . peak knee extension torque was measured isokinetically and isometrically . endurance , or the amount of time the subject could maintain isometric torque at 40 % of maximal torque , was measured . work capacity was determined as the product of isometric torque and endurance time . recovery of strength was measured at regular intervals for ten minutes after the endurance test . statistical analysis was done by repeated measures anova . although the initial measures showed significant deficits in mean peak torque , work capacity , and recovery of strength in symptomatic postpolio subjects , no significant changes were found one year later in any of the variables . we conclude that symptomatic postpolio subjects do not lose significant neuromuscular function in one year . 
cat-scratch disease : an unusual cause of combative behavior . acute encephalitis is an unusual manifestation of cat-scratch disease . the authors present the case of a 27-year-old man who exhibited the acute onset of encephalitis manifested by violent behavior and confusion . the diagnosis of drug abuse was presumed initially , but a careful examination revealed the true cause to be cat-scratch disease . emergency physicians are frequently faced with the challenging task of evaluating confused and combative patients . this case demonstrates the importance of a complete physical examination and a thorough laboratory evaluation . 
antibodies to hiv-1 nef ( p27 ) : prevalence , significance , and relationship to seroconversion . a sensitive and specific enzyme-linked immunoassay for antibodies to the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) nef gene product , p27 , has been developed using recombinant escherichia coli-derived protein from the lav-1-bru sequence . of 92 hiv-1 infected hemophiliacs , 72 ( 78 % ) produced anti-nef antibodies in this assay ; the early appearance of anti-nef prior to full seroconversion was a rare event in this population , occurring in only one subject ( approximately 1 % ) . anti-nef antibodies were not detected in any of 500 sera from 98 repeatedly hiv seronegative subjects who had been exposed to sexually transmitted modes of hiv infection ( 45 subjects ) or through blood products ( 53 subjects ) . there was no significant association of titer or anti-nef antibody with protection from disease in hiv infection ( p = 0.1 ) . although the nef protein is relatively immunogenic in natural infection , this study can not confirm the previously reported high prevalence of anti-nef antibodies prior to seroconversion , nor the finding of anti-nef antibodies in hiv seronegative but exposed subjects . 
rapid diagnosis of herpes simplex encephalitis by nested polymerase chain reaction assay of cerebrospinal fluid . with the aim of improving early diagnosis of herpes simplex encephalitis a polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) assay with two " nested " primer pairs was developed for the amplification of herpes simplex virus dna in cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) . southern blotting was used to confirm the specificity of the amplification . the assay was applied to 151 csf samples from 43 consecutive patients with herpes simplex encephalitis verified by the finding of herpes simplex virus/viral antigen in a brain biopsy sample or at necropsy ( 13 ) and/or intrathecal production of igg antibody to the virus ( 40 ) . as controls , 87 csf samples from 60 patients with acute febrile focal encephalopathy ( initially suspected to be herpes simplex encephalitis but excluded by the absence of intrathecal antibody synthesis ) were tested . pcr detected herpes simplex virus dna in 42 of the 43 patients with proven herpes simplex encephalitis ; all but 1 were positive in the first csf sample taken . the 1 pcr-negative patient had been treated with acyclovir from 20 h after the onset of symptoms . all the control subjects were pcr negative , as were 270 internal contamination controls . the pcr result remained positive in samples drawn up to 27 days after the onset of neurological symptoms . this method is a rapid and non-invasive means to diagnose herpes simplex encephalitis ; it is highly sensitive and specific . 
mycobacterial infection after renal transplantation -- report of 14 cases and review of the literature . during a nine-year period , 14 cases of mycobacterial infection ( tuberculosis ) developed in 403 renal transplant recipients at the king faisal specialist hospital and research centre in riyadh , saudi arabia , an incidence of 3.5 per cent . the annual incidence of tuberculosis was about 50 times higher than that in the general population . infection was disseminated in nine ( 64.3 per cent ) , pulmonary in four ( 28.6 per cent ) , and genitourinary in 1 ( 7.1 per cent ) . in one patient tuberculosis was transmitted by the donor 's kidney . the clinical manifestations were often ill-defined and not different from that in the normal host . cultures from all patients grew mycobacterium tuberculosis ; concomitant infection with other organisms was present in five patients ( 35.7 per cent ) . two of 18 patients ( group 1 ) with positive pretransplant tuberculin skin test developed tuberculosis after transplantation ( 11 per cent ) , and neither received isoniazid prophylaxis ; three of 70 patients ( group 2 ) with negative skin tests developed tuberculosis after transplantation ( 4.3 per cent ) . the difference between the two groups was not statistically significant . review of all published cases of mycobacterial infections in renal transplant recipients revealed 130 cases . tuberculosis was disseminated in 38.7 per cent , pulmonary in 40.2 per cent , cutaneous in 12 per cent , and miscellaneous in 9.4 per cent . atypical mycobacteria were responsible for 29 per cent of disseminated infections , 8 per cent of pulmonary infections and all cases of cutaneous and articular tuberculosis . invasive procedures were needed to establish the diagnosis in 21 of 33 disseminated cases but in only three of 47 cases of pulmonary tuberculosis ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the mortality rate from disseminated disease was 37 per cent and from all other forms of tuberculosis was 11 per cent ( p less than 0.005 ) . these findings ( 1 ) confirm the higher incidence of tuberculosis in renal transplant recipients , compared to the general population ; ( 2 ) suggest that pretransplant skin testing probably has little value in identifying patients at risk ; ( 3 ) show that disseminated tuberculosis is common after renal transplantation and requires invasive procedures for diagnosis ; ( 4 ) confirm that the donor kidney may be an important source of infection ; and ( 5 ) indicate that concomitant infection with other organisms is common . 
persistent rectal ulcer associated with human papillomavirus type 33 in a patient with aids : successful treatment with isotretinoin . rectal dysplasia and carcinoma associated with human papillomavirus infection are increasing in prevalence among homosexual men , particularly those infected with the human immunodeficiency virus . we report a case involving a 39-year-old homosexual man with aids who developed a persistent rectal ulcer . a biopsy of the ulcer revealed severe squamous dysplasia , and human papillomavirus type 33 was detected in rectal tissue with use of in situ dna hybridization . this genotype of virus has not been previously associated with anal or rectal dysplasia in homosexual men , including those infected with the human immunodeficiency virus . the rectal ulcer resolved after 2 months of oral therapy with 60 mg/d of isotretinoin , a retinoid . 
inpatients with aids and aids-related complex : economic inpact on hospitals in north carolina . to determine the economic impact of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) or aids-related complex ( arc ) cases on north carolina hospitals , we collected inpatient data from all north carolina hospitals on charges and number of patients discharged with these diagnoses . more than 97 % of the state 's hospitals responded to the survey for the study year ( 1987-1988 ) . there were 540 aids/arc discharges from 58 north carolina general hospitals and 125 aids/arc discharges from 13 other types of hospitals , for a statewide total of 665 patients . the total general hospital charges for aids/arc inpatients in north carolina were approximately $ 7.7 million per year , and almost $ 2 million of these charges were uncompensated by any insurance . the greatest burden of cost for this care was borne disproportionately by 15 of the 58 general hospitals , accounting for 82 % of the discharges . 
perinatal transmission of human papillomavirus . human papillomavirus infection is probably the most prevalent sexually transmitted disease in the united states . in adults , it is associated with condylomata acuminata and with neoplastic changes ranging from dysplasia to carcinoma . infected mothers may transmit human papillomavirus during the perinatal period ; affected children face prolonged , difficult treatment for respiratory papillomatosis . prevention of infection remains the best approach , since diagnostic and therapeutic methods are suboptimal . 
antiviral drug therapy . major advances in molecular virology have led to the development of new antiviral compounds . these drugs include ribavirin , used in the treatment of severe respiratory syncytial virus infection in children ; amantadine , used in the prophylaxis and treatment of influenza a infection ; acyclovir , used in a variety of herpesvirus infections , including primary gingivostomatitis , genital herpes and herpes zoster ; ganciclovir , used in the treatment of retinitis due to cytomegalovirus , and zidovudine , used in the prophylaxis and treatment of human immunodeficiency virus infection . 
hepatobiliary manifestations of the acquired immune deficiency syndrome . patients with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) frequently develop hepatic dysfunction . although hepatic injury may indirectly result from malnutrition , hypotension , administered medications , sepsis , or other conditions , the hepatic injury is frequently due to opportunistic hepatic infection , directly related to aids . infection with mycobacterium avium intracellulare typically occurs in patients with advanced immunocompromise and with systemic symptoms due to widely disseminated infection . in contrast , hepatic tuberculosis often occurs with less advanced immunocompromise . cytomegaloviral infection may produce a hepatitis . cytomegaloviral and cryptosporidial infections have been implicated as causes of acalculous cholecystitis and of a secondary sclerosing cholangitis . about 10-20 % of patients with aids have chronic hepatitis b infection . these patients tend to develop minimal hepatic inflammation and necrosis . the clinical findings in patients with hepatic cryptococcal infection are usually due to concomitant extrahepatic infection . hepatic histoplasmosis usually develops as part of a widely disseminated infection with systemic symptoms . hepatic involvement by kaposi 's sarcoma is rarely documented ante mortem because an unguided liver biopsy is an insensitive diagnostic procedure . patients with non-hodgkin 's lymphoma of the liver typically have lymphadenopathy , hepatomegaly , and systemic symptoms . as a pragmatic approach , patients with liver dysfunction and hiv-related disease should have a sonographic or computerized tomographic examination of the liver . patients with dilated bile ducts should undergo endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography because opportunistic infection may produce biliary obstruction . patients with a focal hepatic lesion should be considered for a guided liver biopsy . patients with a significantly elevated serum alkaline phosphatase level should be considered for a percutaneous liver biopsy . when performed for these indications , liver biopsy will demonstrate a significant disease involving the liver in about 50 % of patients with aids and in about 25 % of patients who are hiv seropositive but who are not known to have aids . the clinical impact of a diagnostic biopsy is blunted by a lack of efficacious therapy for many opportunistic infections . 
upper gastrointestinal bleeding in dengue fever . twenty-six virologically and serologically confirmed dengue patients with signs of upper gastrointestinal tract bleeding ( 13.1 % ) were studied during the 1987 outbreak in southern taiwan . within a 1-yr period from 1987 to 1988 in kaohsiung chang gung memorial hospital , there were 198 patients with dengue fever confirmed . viral isolation and serological studies indicated that type i dengue was the cause . there was no evidence of sequential secondary infection among them . the 26 patients were evaluated gastroduodenoscopically . most of the dengue patients who developed upper gastrointestinal bleeding had gastric ulcers or duodenal ulcers ; superficial and hemorrhagic gastritis are the other relevant endoscopic findings . thirteen patients ( 50 % ) had a past history of peptic ulcer symptoms , whereas the other 13 did not . dengue infection is a precipitating factor in inducing peptic ulcer bleeding because of hemostatic derangements . supportive therapy and blood transfusions alone were adequate treatment , except for one patient who required surgery due to massive bleeding of a duodenal ulcer . no mortality was observed in this study . 
whipple 's disease can mimic chronic aids enteropathy . previous case reports have demonstrated that the intestinal pathology of mycobacterium avium-intracellulare ( mai ) infection in the acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) has a light microscopic appearance similar to whipple 's disease . this case report describes a 52-yr-old male patient with a clinical picture suggestive of aids , including diarrhea , weight loss , oral thrush , and intestinal cryptosporidiosis . the intestinal biopsy showed light microscopic features compatible with either mai or whipple 's disease , but electron microscopy confirmed the presence of the whipple bacillus . markers of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection were absent . although immune abnormalities have been reported in whipple 's disease , this is the first report of opportunistic infections complicating this condition . a useful clinical pearl emerges from this and other cases : aids can mimic whipple 's disease ; whipple 's disease can mimic aids . 
therapy of persistent human papillomavirus disease with two different interferon species . consensus interferon and interferon alfa-2a were used to treat patients with persistent human papillomavirus disease . thirty-one patients were treated with either consensus interferon or a placebo ( 25 received active drug and 6 received placebo ) , and 24 patients were treated with interferon alfa-2a . of the 25 patients who received consensus interferon , 19 ( 76 % ) showed either complete or partial clearing of condyloma 10 and 16 weeks after initiation of therapy ; in 22 of the 24 patients ( 91 % ) who received interferon alfa-2a , clearing was demonstrated after a similar time period . thirty of 34 patients who had no response or a partial response requested additional therapy , and 20 of these patients treated with adjunctive therapy had a complete response . the results of this study support the efficacy of both interferons in the treatment of overt condyloma acuminatum and suggest that interferon enhances subsequent adjunctive therapy . 
human immunodeficiency virus-induced immunosuppression : a risk factor for human papillomavirus infection . in a group of 92 women with genital condylomata , 15 ( 16.3 % ) human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients were found , whereas no case was detected in a control group of 100 women . the relative risk was greater than 19.28 . human immunodeficiency-positive status was associated with other parameters : lower age and parity , major frequency of induced abortions , and sexually transmitted diseases . thus although human immunodeficiency-positive status seems to be a true risk factor in relation to the altered immunologic state , an indirect association can not be discarded . such patients should be screened closely for human papillomavirus infection and cervical cancer . among human immunodeficiency-positive women , a more resistant behavior of human papillomavirus-associated lesions was detected ( recurrence-persistence of 41.7 % versus 12 % ) , a fact that might also be in relation to the immunodepressed status . 
the influence of human immunodeficiency virus infection on tuberculosis in kampala , uganda . the clinical , radiographic , and microbiologic features of 59 patients with pulmonary tuberculosis in kampala , uganda were studied and correlated with the serologic reactivity to the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) of these patients . two-thirds of the patients with tuberculosis were hiv-seropositive . histories of fever and weight loss were more prominent in hiv-seropositive patients , and perihilar and basilar infiltrative diseases were more frequently seen in hiv-seropositive patients . although all patients responded similarly to drug therapy , cutaneous drug reactions were seen in nearly one-third of hiv-seropositive patients receiving thiacetazone . 
comparison of hiv detection by virus isolation in lymphocyte cultures and molecular amplification of hiv dna and rna by pcr in offspring of seropositive mothers . an early and accurate diagnosis of hiv infection is needed in the offspring of seropositive mothers . to this end , we have used two techniques for the direct detection of hiv in 12 newborns tested within 2 weeks after birth and 12 children . hiv isolation was carried out in lymphocyte cocultures and compared with detection of dna and rna sequences by molecular amplification using the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) . in lymphocyte cocultures , hiv was isolated in 8 of 24 cases ( 33 % ) , including 3 newborns , 3 symptomatic children , and 2 asymptomatic ones . hiv dna was detected by pcr in twice as many cases , i.e. , in 16/24 cases ( 66 % ) , including 7/12 newborns , 4/4 symptomatic children , and 5/8 asymptomatic ones , 2 of whom became seronegative , hiv rna was detected in 10 of 16 cases ( 60 % ) with detectable hiv dna , including all of the cases who had a positive hiv isolation . only children with clinical or biological signs of hiv infection were positive for hiv rna . furthermore , signs of hiv infection appeared within 6 months in three of the four newborns who were positive for hiv rna at birth . these results indicate that hiv dna detection by pcr is far more sensitive than hiv isolation in culture for the early diagnosis of hiv infection in offspring of seropositive mothers . hiv rna detection appears to be a useful prognostic marker since it does correlate with disease progression and may serve as a clue for hiv replication in vivo . 
polypharmacy among patients attending an aids clinic : utilization of prescribed , unorthodox , and investigational treatments . the objective of this study was to describe the utilization and characteristics associated with the use of prescribed , over-the-counter , investigational , and unorthodox treatments among aids clinic patients . this report is derived from cross-sectional data obtained using structured telephone surveys . study participants ( n = 197 ) were recruited from the university of california , san francisco , medical center aids clinic . one hundred eighty-nine participants ( 96 % ) received 1-24 prescription medications during the 3 months prior to interview . those with an aids diagnosis received a relatively greater number of prescription drugs ( p = 0.0001 ) ; an average of 5.6 prescribed medications were used by aids patients versus 4.8 among aids-related complex and 2.3 among asymptomatic patients . thirty-one percent participated in drug trials during the 3 months before interview , including 18 % who were in multiple studies . twenty-nine percent used unorthodox treatments . seventy-five ( 40 % ) received prescription medication from a provider other than their primary provider . a more advanced stage of illness was associated with the use of unorthodox treatments ( p = 0.003 ) : users of these treatments had a greater educational attainment than nonusers ( p = 0.03 ) and were significantly less likely to report that their primary provider was aware of all the treatments they used ( odds ratio = 2.1 , p less than 0.03 ) . we conclude that use of polypharmacy among some aids clinic patients is common , could create an increased risk for adverse drug reactions , and may affect clinical drug trials . despite having decided to obtain care at a university-based clinic , many of the participants of this study also chose to receive unorthodox therapies and care from nonprimary medical providers . 
survival differences in patients with aids [ published erratum appears in j acquir immune defic syndr 1991 ; 4 ( 7 ) :737 ] to define the clinical , demographic , and behavioral variables that may influence survival in patients with aids , we studied 526 patients with aids diagnosed through september 1987 who were cared for at a single medical center . a diversity of racial and ethnic backgrounds , ages , both men and women , and all risk behaviors except hemophilia were well represented . the initial aids defining diagnosis was the most powerful predictor of survival . the median survival was 12.8 months for patients presenting with kaposi 's sarcoma ( p less than 0.001 ) , 10.9 months for patients presenting with pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( p less than 0.001 ) , and 4.8 months for patients presenting with other infections or neoplasms ( p less than 0.02 ) . for the entire series , male sex and younger age were associated with more favorable survival ( p less than 0.025 ) . for those presenting with pneumocystis carinii pneumonia , in addition to younger age ( p less than 0.025 ) , black race ( p less than 0.025 ) and the combination of male sex and intravenous drug use ( p less than 0.005 ) were associated with a more favorable survival . within a setting of comparable clinical care , survival from the point of diagnosis of aids is associated most strongly with the initial aids diagnosis , but differences in age , gender , race , and risk behavior also exert an influence on survival . 
detection of salivary hiv-1-specific igg antibodies in high-risk populations in zaire . saliva and blood samples were tested for human immunodeficiency virus-1 ( hiv-1 ) antibodies in two high-risk populations in kinshasa , zaire . in a seroprevalence study of 458 sexually transmitted disease ( std ) clinic attendees , 142 of 145 seropositive individuals had enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) - positive saliva samples ( 97.9 % sensitivity ) . all saliva samples from seronegative patients were elisa-negative ( 100 % specificity ) . of the 142 elisa-positive saliva specimens , 137 were also western blot-positive ( 94.5 % sensitivity ) . in a subsequent seroincidence study of 315 initially seronegative female prostitutes followed during 183 woman-years of observation , 9 of 14 women who seroconverted ( 7.7 % seroincidence ) had elisa-positive saliva samples at the time seroconversion was detected . only three of these saliva specimens could be confirmed by western blot . although salivary testing for hiv-1 antibodies using conventional assays was not sensitive in detecting recent seroconversions , screening of salivary samples for hiv-1 antibody provides a convenient alternative method for conducting seroprevalence surveys in populations in whom venipuncture is not possible or convenient . 
medical care of the hiv-infected child . familiarity with the demographics of pediatric hiv disease and recognition of common and uncommon presentations of infection are keys to diagnosing the hiv-infected child . subsequent management entails preventative care , including immunizations and nutritional support , as well as management of hiv-related complications . 
pneumocystis carinii infections in hiv-infected children . since 1981 , 1200 children with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome have been reported to the centers for disease control . among these children , pneumocystis carinii has been the leading cause of serious morbidity and mortality . this review discusses the epidemiology , diagnosis , and treatment of p. carinii . 
lymphocytic interstitial pneumonia . lymphocytic interstitial pneumonia is at present a pathologic diagnosis . in the setting of a chronic interstitial pneumonia in a child with lymphocytosis , hyperglobulinemia , and lymphadenopathy or parotid enlargement , the diagnosis is often clinically presumed . at present the diagnosis can be established firmly only by lung biopsy . models of pathogenesis include nonspecific stimulation of the immune system , hiv-specific stimulation , or synergy between ebv and hiv . treatment includes oxygen and bronchodilators as needed . the role of zidovudine and of steroids in the management of lip remains to be determined . 
pathology of childhood aids . pathologic lesions in children with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) can be classified into three broad categories : ( 1 ) primary lesions related directly to infection by human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) ( e.g. , in the lymphoreticular system and brain ) ; ( 2 ) associated lesions related to direct or indirect sequelae of hiv infection ( e.g. , opportunistic infections , lymphoid interstitial pneumonitis , and so forth ) ; and ( 3 ) lesions of undetermined pathogenesis ( e.g. , cardiomyopathy , nephropathy , and so forth ) . the pathologic features of the various lesions in these three categories are described . clinical relevance of the pathologic study of aids is discussed . data on perinatal pathology of aids is reviewed . 
upper respiratory tract infections in young children : duration of and frequency of complications . this study was performed to determine the usual duration of community-acquired viral upper respiratory tract infections and the incidence of complications ( otitis media/sinusitis ) of these respiratory tract infections in infancy and early childhood . children in various forms of child-care arrangements ( home care , group care , and day care ) were enrolled at birth and observed for 3 years . families were telephoned every 2 weeks to record on a standardized form the type and severity of illnesses experienced during the previous interval . only children remaining in their original child-care group for the entire study period were compared . the mean duration of an upper respiratory tract infection varied between 6.6 days ( for 1 - to 2-year-old children in home care ) and 8.9 days ( for children younger than 1 year in day care ) . the percentage of apparently simple upper respiratory tract infections that lasted more than 15 days ranged from 6.5 % ( for 1 - to 3-year-old children in home care ) to 13.1 % ( for 2 - to 3-year-old children in day care ) . children in day care were more likely than children in home care to have protracted respiratory symptoms . of 2741 respiratory tract infections recorded for the 3-year period , 801 ( 29.2 % ) were complicated by otitis media . during the first 2 years of life , children in any type of day care were more likely than children in home care to have otitis media as a complication of upper respiratory tract infection . in year 3 , the risk of otitis media was similar in all types of child care . 
clinical manifestations of primary herpes simplex virus type 1 infection in a closed community . the clinical features and the molecular epidemiology of primary herpes simplex virus type 1 ( hsv-1 ) infection among children younger than 3 years of age were investigated in day-care nursery . serial sera were assayed for anti-hsv-1 glycoprotein b antibody by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay . serologic examinations revealed 55 cases of primary hsv infection during the observation period . fifty-one of them ( 93 % ) had typical herpetic gingivostomatitis , showing a high rate of clinically overt infection . four outbreaks of herpetic gingivostomatitis were observed during the observation period . forty-one children were infected with hsv-1 in the outbreaks . the rates of infection in the susceptible children were 81 % , 73 % , 78 % , and 100 % , respectively , in the four outbreaks . restriction endonuclease analysis of dna of isolated hsv revealed that only one strain of hsv-1 had been transmitted among children for a long period . 
lack of transmission of the live attenuated varicella vaccine virus to immunocompromised children after immunization of their siblings . the safety of administering the live attenuated oka/merck varicella vaccine to the well siblings of children with malignancy was evaluated as a strategy for reducing the risk of household exposure to varicella among immunocompromised children . susceptible well children were eligible for vaccination if the child with malignancy had leukemia , lymphoma , or solid tumor in remission for 3 months or longer . no evidence of vaccine virus transmission was found among 30 children with malignancy whose 37 healthy susceptible siblings were immunized with varicella vaccine . varicella-zoster virus was not isolated from the oropharyngeal secretions taken from 17 vaccinees or their 14 immunocompromised siblings . none of the 30 immunocompromised children had vaccine-related rashes or showed immunologic evidence of subclinical varicella-zoster virus infection based on testing for varicella-zoster virus igg antibodies and t-lymphocyte proliferation to varicella-zoster virus . four healthy vaccinees eventually had mild breakthrough cases of varicella , with transmission to the high-risk sibling in 3 cases . however , even in these families , the immunocompromised children had been protected from household exposure varicella for at least 20 months early in the course of their immunosuppressive treatment . 
infection in utero : us findings in 19 cases . the results of antenatal sonographic studies of 19 fetuses with congenital infections were retrospectively reviewed by the authors . recognizing the significance of these antenatal sonographic findings is important because in utero infections can have devastating effects on the developing fetus . an infectious viral agent was isolated in laboratory tests at birth in 11 patients , and the effects of a viral agent were proved clinically in eight . antenatal sonography demonstrated abnormalities in 18 fetuses : multiple organ systems were affected in 47 % ; intracranial abnormalities , cardiac abnormalities , and parenchymal calcifications occurred in 42 % , 37 % , and 32 % , respectively ; large placentas were seen in 32 % ; and the volume of amniotic fluid was decreased in 37 % and increased in 37 % . sixty-three percent of fetuses were either aborted or died at birth ; the 37 % that lived were all developmentally impaired . on the basis of these sonographic , laboratory , and clinical findings , the authors conclude that when multiple organ system abnormalities are found at antenatal ultrasound , the presence of an in utero infection should be considered . the parents should be informed that there is a poor prognosis for any fetus demonstrating such abnormalities . 
clinicopathologic studies of children who die of acute lower respiratory tract infections : mechanisms of death . clinicopathologic correlations for 71 cases of fatal pneumonia in children were determined . the mechanism of death for these patients was multifactorial . severe pneumonia alone accounted for 11 deaths ( 15.5 % ) . pneumonia associated with sepsis occurred in 42 children ( 59.2 % ) . heart failure ( 8.5 % ) , hypovolemia ( 4.2 % ) , and nosocomial infection ( 12.6 % ) were also seen in children with fatal acute lower respiratory tract infection . extensive consolidation , squamous metaplasia , and hyaline membranes were present in the lungs of these children . patients with severe disease must receive , in addition to antibiotics for acute episodes , individualized intensive respiratory and supportive care . since these types of care are not available in poor communities , vaccination against measles and vitamin a supplementation for malnourished children may ameliorate the conditions that appear to predispose these children to severe or fatal disease . 
etiologic , clinical , and pathologic analysis of 31 fatal cases of acute respiratory tract infection in argentinian children under 5 years of age . during a 3-year survey of 805 children with acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) who were admitted to three hospitals in buenos aires , 31 fatal cases were recorded -- a fatality rate of 3.8 % . of the 31 children who died , 77 % were less than 1 year of age , 48 % were boys , 58 % were malnourished , 29 % had previous respiratory disease , and 22 % had previous congenital disease . all children who died had clinical diagnoses of pneumonia ( 71 % ) or bronchiolitis ( 29 % ) . autopsies were performed in 14 of the cases . viral etiology was determined by both cell culture and indirect immunofluorescence ( iif ) assay of either nasopharyngeal aspirates ( npa ) or lung tissue and bacterial etiology was determined by isolation of organisms from blood , lung tissue , and/or pleural fluid . npa was examined for bordetella pertussis by iif . pathogens were identified in 65 % of fatal cases . seven cases were bacterial ; seven cases were viral ; and six cases resulted from mixed infections . lung tissue yielded positive etiologic results in 10 of 13 cases . histopathologic examination performed on specimens from the 14 autopsied children revealed necrotizing bronchiolitis with intranuclear inclusions ( n = 5 ) and multifocal pneumonia ( n = 9 ) . 
etiologic and clinical evaluation of acute lower respiratory tract infections in young argentinian children : an overview . this paper summarizes the first study on clinical , etiologic , and epidemiologic features of acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) in children in argentina . a total of 1,003 children less than 5 years of age ( 805 inpatients and 198 outpatients ) presenting with alri were studied during a 40-month period . nasopharyngeal aspirate ( npa ) , blood , urine , and throat-swab samples were collected when each child was first seen for care . virologic studies were performed on the npa by means of indirect immunofluorescence and isolation of virus in cell culture . bacteriologic studies primarily were done by means of culture of blood or pleural fluid ( when available ) ; bordetella pertussis and mycoplasma pneumoniae , however , were searched for by the use of immunofluorescence and complement-fixation testing , respectively , in paired sera . respiratory syncytial virus was the most commonly isolated virus , followed by adenovirus , parainfluenza virus , and influenza virus . streptococcus pneumoniae was the most frequently isolated bacterium , followed by b. pertussis and haemophilus influenzae type b. overall , the patient fatality rate was 3.8 % among inpatients with pneumonia or bronchiolitis . 
acute lower respiratory tract infections in hospitalized patients with diarrhea in dhaka , bangladesh . this study focused on 401 children less than 5 years old who were hospitalized with acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) and diarrhea in dhaka , bangladesh , and who were investigated for the presence of both bacterial and viral respiratory tract pathogens as well as for selected diarrheal pathogens . the most common manifestations of alri were pneumonia ( 374 cases ) , bronchiolitis ( 12 cases ) , and tracheobronchitis ( 11 cases ) . the majority ( 77 % ) of the illnesses were in children less than 2 years of age , and 88 % of the children were malnourished . a respiratory tract pathogen was identified in 30 % of the patients , and a diarrheal pathogen was identified in 34 % . the overall case-fatality rate in children with alri and diarrhea was 8 % . the case-fatality rate was 14 % in children with bacterial pneumonia and diarrhea , 3 % in those with viral pneumonia and diarrhea , and 14 % in malnourished children with shigellosis and alri . the most common respiratory tract pathogens were respiratory syncytial virus , streptococcus pneumoniae , influenza viruses , and haemophilus influenzae type b. 
diagnoses of acute lower respiratory tract infections in children in rawalpindi and islamabad , pakistan . a hospital-based inpatient and outpatient study of 1,492 cases of acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) was conducted from november 1986 to march 1988 in two hospitals in rawalpindi and islamabad , pakistan . specimens of nasopharyngeal aspirate were processed for viral studies in all cases ; blood cultures were performed in 1,331 cases ; and urine was obtained for detection of bacterial antigen in 378 cases , but 227 of these samples had bacterial contamination and were discarded . respiratory syncytial virus was identified in 33 % of cases , and haemophilus influenzae and streptococcus pneumoniae were identified in 9.6 % and 9.9 % of cases , respectively . nonencapsulated h. influenzae accounted for 32 % of the haemophilus isolates , and type b was the only encapsulated h. influenzae strain identified . of the s. pneumoniae serotypes isolated , 31 % are not included in the currently available polyvalent pneumococcal vaccine . no clinical characteristic was demonstrated to be a reliable indicator for bacterial alri . 
etiology of acute lower respiratory tract infection in children from alabang , metro manila . the etiology of acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) was identified in 235 ( 43.8 % ) of 537 hospitalized children less than 5 years of age . clinical evidence of measles was found in 258 ( 48.0 % ) patients , of whom 59 had a second viral infection . a viral agent was identified in an additional 121 patients , so that a total of 379 ( 70.6 % ) had viral infections . after measles , respiratory syncytial virus was the most common respiratory virus . bacteremia was noted in 72 children ( 13.4 % ) , occurring as frequently in children with measles ( 14.8 % ) as in those without ( 12.1 % ) ; haemophilus influenzae and salmonella typhi were predominant in the former , and h. influenzae , staphylococcus aureus , and streptococcus pneumoniae were prominent in the latter . the presence of bacterial antigen in urine was not helpful in identifying bacterial infection . extrapulmonary and intrapleural complications , concomitant measles , complicated alri , female gender , and malnutrition were associated with increased mortality among children with alri . the importance of measles immunization , vitamin a supplementation for alleviation of defects associated with malnutrition , and timely antimicrobial therapy is emphasized . 
acute respiratory tract infections among a birth cohort of children from cali , colombia , who were studied through 17 months of age . for this study , 340 children less than 18 months old from a low-income , urban neighborhood in cali , colombia , were observed from birth by means of weekly home visits to detect cases of acute respiratory tract infection . all suspected cases were confirmed by trained doctors in a special clinic . information on symptoms , signs , and potential risk factors was documented prospectively . etiologic agents were identified in cases of lower respiratory tract infection ( lri ) . the overall incidence of acute respiratory tract infection was 6.6 cases per child-year at risk . the incidence of upper respiratory tract infection was 4.9 cases per child-year at risk and that of lri was 1.7 cases per child-year at risk . crowding in the home was found to be significantly associated with an increased incidence of lri . respiratory syncytial virus was the viral agent most frequently isolated from cultures of nasopharyngeal aspirates of children with lri . staphylococcus aureus was the bacterial agent most frequently isolated from the blood of patients with lri . 
isolation and identification of viral agents in argentinian children with acute lower respiratory tract infection . from a total population of 1,002 children with acute lower respiratory infection ( alri ) , identification of virus was achieved in 304 cases . in this survey , 1,000 nasopharyngeal aspirate and 13 lung tissue samples were tested in four cell lines ( hep-2 , mrc-5 , mdck , and llc-mk2 ) and by indirect immunofluorescence ( iif ) , while 242 paired sera were studied by complement fixation . respiratory syncytial virus ( rsv ) was the most frequently detected agent ( n = 183 ) , followed by adenovirus ( n = 28 ) , parainfluenza ( n = 5 ) and 3 ( n = 16 ) viruses , and influenza a ( n = 10 ) and b ( n = 4 ) viruses . the sensitivity and specificity of iif identification vs. isolation in cell culture were high for rsv ( 91.5 % and 94.9 % , respectively ) . however , iif proved poorly sensitive for detection of adenovirus ( sensitivity , 23.8 % ; specificity , 100 % ) . the complement-fixation test proved the least effective , with a sensitivity of only 41.5 % . therefore , on the basis of our experience , it appears that the yield for positive diagnosis of virus is increased if both isolation in multiple cell lines and identification by means of iif are used . our survey provides for the first time reliable data on the viral etiology of alri in argentina , as determined by three different methods . 
acute lower respiratory tract infection due to virus among hospitalized children in dhaka , bangladesh . the nature of acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) in hospitalized children and of the associated viral agents was assessed in a study of 601 children less than 5 years old over a 24-month period . of these children , 80 % were less than 24 months of age and the ratio of boys to girls was 1.7:1 . pneumonia ( 86.5 % of cases ) was the most frequently observed clinical manifestation . shedding of virus was detected in 21.1 % of the children ; the highest rate occurred in infants 0-5 months old ( 27 % ) as compared with a rate of only 12.5 % in children 25-60 months old . virus was detected in 33.3 % , 32.8 % , 21.2 % , and 20 % of the cases of tracheobronchitis , bronchiolitis , pneumonia , and croup , respectively . among the viruses detected , 78 % were respiratory syncytial virus ( rsv ) ( 91 % of infections with this virus occurred in children less than 2 years old ) and 14.4 % were influenza virus types a and b. of the rsv infections , 61 % occurred in infants less than 1 year old . the case-fatality rate was 6.8 % overall and was 4.8 % in virus-associated cases . no consistent pattern of seasonal occurrence of viral infections was discerned . rsv was detected throughout the year , with increased prevalence from january to april . 
a hospital-based study of acute viral infections of the respiratory tract in thai children , with emphasis on laboratory diagnosis . the hospital-based study described here examined the viruses found in 738 children less than 5 years old who presented at ramathibodi hospital , bangkok , thailand , from january 1986 to december 1987 with acute respiratory tract infections . three methods for detection of viral infection are compared : direct examination of epithelial cells of the respiratory tract with the use of fluorescent antibody staining , isolation of virus , and measurement of antibody in acute - and convalescent-phase sera . viral infections were found in 44.7 % of the study population . diagnosis by the examination of epithelial cells with the fluorescent antibody staining procedure was found to have several deficiencies ; however , this technique was the most sensitive for diagnosis of infection due to respiratory syncytial virus . isolation of virus was the best method for identification of adenoviruses , parainfluenza 1 and 3 viruses , and influenza b virus . problems associated with serodiagnosis included failure to obtain specimens of convalescent-phase blood in 24.5 % of cases and insensitivity of serodiagnosis for young children except for the identification of antibody to influenza a virus . the combination of all three tests yielded the best rate of detection of virus . 
vaccination for disease . recombinant virus vaccines that express a limited number of epitopes are currently being developed to prevent disease by changing the relative balance between viral spread and the immune response . some circumstances , however , were found in infections with a noncytopathic virus in which vaccination caused disease ; sensitive parameters included the genetic background of the host , the time or dose of infection , and the constituents of the vaccine . thus , immunopathologic damage by t cells may be an unwanted consequence of vaccination with the new types of peptide or recombinant vaccines that are being investigated for the human immunodeficiency viruses and other pathogens . 
the effect of anti-neoplastic drugs on murine acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . the murine acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( maids ) is associated with proliferation of target cells that have been infected by a defective retrovirus . to control the growth of this primary neoplasia , virus-inoculated mice were treated with anti-neoplastic drugs . paradoxically , cyclophosphamide , which is also immunosuppressive , was very effective in preventing the appearance and progression of the disease , in restoring a normal t cell function , and in depleting the number of infected target cells . this result suggests that the proliferating infected target cells were responsible for the immunodeficiency . 
htlv-i associated myelopathy ( ham ) after blood transfusion in a patient with cd2 + hairy cell leukemia . hairy cell leukemia complicating hemolytic anemia developed in a 46-year-old woman . morphologically and cytochemically typical hairy cells were found to express both cd20 and cd2 antigens . expression of surface igg of kappa-chain type and the rearrangement of ig but not t-cell receptor beta genes confirmed a b-cell origin of the leukemia . blood transfusion was followed by disappearance of the hemolysis and a marked improvement of the leukemia . however , the patient developed progressive spastic spinal paraplegia about seven months after transfusion and was diagnosed as having htlv-i associated myelopathy ( ham ) by the demonstration of htlv-i antibodies in serum and cerebrospinal fluid . htlv-i infection via the transfusion may have been involved in the hematologic improvement seen in this patient . autopsy showed demyelination , vacuolar degeneration , gliosis , and perivascular cuffing in the white matter of spinal cord without evidence of leukemic infiltration . 
occurrence of multiple types of human papillomavirus in genital tract lesions . analysis by in situ hybridization and the polymerase chain reaction . more than 22 types of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) have been detected in genital tract squamous cell intraepithelial lesions . seven of two hundred eighty-six ( 2.4 % ) genital tract tissues in which hpv dna was detected by in situ hybridization contained two or more different hpv types . when analyzed by site , 5 of 204 ( 2.4 % ) of cervical intraepithelial lesions were infected by more than one type , compared with 2 of 82 ( 2.4 % ) of vulvar lesions . the rate for low-grade lesions was similar ( 5/218 ; 2.3 % ) to that for high-grade lesions ( 2/68 ; 2.9 % ) . in contrast , two different hpv types were detected in 6/33 ( 18 % ) of tissues by the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) using type-specific primers for eight hpv types . it is concluded that infection by one hpv type is rarely associated with concurrent ' active ' infection by a second hpv type , even though dna of a different viral type can be detected by pcr in about one fifth of such cases . further study is required to determine if an existing hpv infection can inhibit replication by a different hpv type . 
olfactory identification deficits in hiv infection . objective : impaired odor identification is described in a number of cns disorders , and human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infects the cns in a large percentage of patients . to evaluate whether impaired olfaction may indicate cns disease , the authors measured odor identification in patient groups defined along a continuum of progressive immunodeficiency and in a comparison group . method : most of the 42 hiv-infected patients in the study were outpatients in a clinic specializing in treatment of hiv-infected individuals . the comparison subjects were 37 healthy age - and sex-matched individuals who were recruited from hospital and medical school personnel . ten of the patients were hiv-seropositive but had no symptoms , 24 had clinical evidence of immunocompromise , and eight had hiv dementia . all subjects were given the university of pennsylvania smell identification test , which presents common odorants and requires the subject to identify the odor from a four-item word list . the data were analyzed by using analysis of variance after arc-sine transformation and scheffe post hoc analysis . results : all patients scored significantly lower on the smell identification test than did the comparison subjects . the patients with hiv dementia had significantly lower scores than did the other two groups of patients . conclusions : clinically , impaired olfaction might serve as a marker of early cns hiv involvement . future studies should attempt to match comparison and experimental populations for socioeconomic status and hiv risk behavior . 
roseola infantum and other syndromes associated with acute hhv6 infection . eight cases of acute human herpesvirus type 6 ( hhv6 ) infection in infants were diagnosed serologically by the demonstration of igm anti-hhv6 ( 8/8 ) and a significant change in total anti-hhv6 antibody titre ( 6/8 ) . four infants were sufficiently ill to require admission to hospital and further investigations : one with encephalitis and three with gross hepatosplenomegaly , two of whom had evidence of simultaneous infection with another herpes-virus . the remaining four infants had an illness compatible with roseola infantum , although this diagnosis had not been made clinically . sera from two of those infants with rash had been sent for analysis to exclude rubella because the infants ' mothers were pregnant . the other two had received antibiotics when febrile , and the subsequent appearance of the roseola rash had raised the possibility of antibiotic allergy . the data suggest that there are clinical syndromes in addition to roseola infantum associated with the presence of igm anti-hhv6 , in which serological screening for evidence of acute hhv6 infection may be useful . 
amebic meningoencephalitis in a patient with aids caused by a newly recognized opportunistic pathogen . leptomyxid ameba . a fatal case of meningoencephalitis due to a leptomyxid ameba in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome is presented . this opportunistic organism has not been previously recognized as a human pathogen . a 36-year-old male intravenous drug abuser died after an 18-day hospital course heralded by fever and headache and followed by nuchal rigidity and hemiparesis . computed tomography of the head showed multiple hypodense lesions . neuropathologic examination showed that in addition to human immunodeficiency virus encephalomyelitis , there was multifocal meningoencephalitis with trophozoites and cysts morphologically indistinguishable from those of acanthamoeba . these organisms were also found in the kidneys and adrenal glands . by immunofluorescence , the parasites showed antigenic identity with a free-living leptomyxid ameba and failed to react with any of a spectrum of antiacanthamoeba antisera . this emphasizes the importance of immunofluorescence identification of morphologically indistinguishable ameba species . 
seborrheic dermatitis and hiv infection . qualitative analysis of skin surface lipids in men seropositive and seronegative for hiv . we measured skin surface lipids ( cholesterol , free fatty acids , triglycerides , wax esters , and squalene ) in patients seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) and those seronegative for hiv with and without seborrheic dermatitis . cholesterol and wax ester fractions were similar in all four groups but triglycerides and squalene were significantly increased and free fatty acids significantly decreased in hiv-positive patients , regardless of the presence of seborrheic dermatitis . in addition , a strong negative correlation was found between free fatty acid and triglyceride levels . we conclude that abnormalities of skin surface lipids are not associated with the development of seborrheic dermatitis in hiv-positive persons but are associated with hiv infection itself . 
the evolution of lymphadenopathy and hypergammaglobulinemia are evidence for early and sustained polyclonal b lymphocyte activation during human immunodeficiency virus infection . to examine whether polyclonal activation of b lymphocytes as measured by hypergammaglobulinemia contributes to lymphadenopathy in human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection , correlates of adenopathy were examined in 240 homosexual men . lymph node size was measured in 12 sites semiannually over 4 years . both adenopathy and hyperglobulinemia developed within 1 year after seroconversion and persisted at high levels . adenopathy declined near diagnosis of aids whereas serum igg decreased 8-16 months after diagnosis . adenopathy attributable to hiv occurred in all palpable node groups . by logistic regression , hiv-positive men were best discriminated from hiv-negative men by size of posterior cervical nodes and the number of sites with enlarged nodes . in a repeated measures model of covariance , adenopathy in hiv-positive men was associated with more cd4 + cells ( p less than .002 ) , elevated serum globulins ( p less than .01 ) , and lower platelet counts ( p less than .05 ) . adenopathy declined over time ( p less than .001 ) and with diagnosis of aids or aids-related complex ( p less than .03 ) . thus , adenopathy and hypergammaglobulinemia are correlated and follow a similar course through various stages of hiv infection , suggesting that both are caused by polyclonal b cell activation . 
human t lymphotropic virus type ii ( htlv-ii ) infection in a cohort of new york intravenous drug users : an old infection ? to identify risk factors for human t lymphotropic virus type ii ( htlv-ii ) infection in intravenous drug users ( ivdus ) , participants in a longitudinal study of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection in a new york methadone maintenance program were studied . of 270 participants tested for htlv-i/ii , 21 ( 8 % ) were seropositive . of those , 15 ( 71 % ) had htlv-ii-specific sequences by polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) and 1 ( 5 % ) had both htlv-i - and - ii-specific sequences ; 3 persons with indeterminate serologic results were also pcr-positive for htlv-ii . htlv-ii infection was significantly associated with older age but was not predicted by sex , race , socioeconomic status , transfusion history , or hiv infection status . behavioral factors since 1978 , such as duration and frequency of intravenous drug use , needle sharing , visits to shooting galleries , or number of sex partners , were also not associated with htlv-ii infection . these findings are in contrast with the association of these risk factors with hiv in this group and suggest that , among ivdus , htlv-ii is an older endemic infection that is less efficiently transmitted than hiv . 
protection against zosteriform spread of herpes simplex virus by monoclonal antibodies . the in vivo protective role of herpes simplex virus ( hsv-1 ) - specific antibody was analyzed using monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) reactive with discrete antigenic sites on glycoproteins b , c , and d ( gb , gc , gd ) in the murine zosteriform spread model of hsv-1 . all of the anti-gc and anti-gd mabs , and one of four anti-gb mabs ( b6 ) were protective . the in vitro abilities of the mabs to neutralize hsv-1 and mediate antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity ( adcc ) against hsv-1-infected cells were examined as potential mechanistic correlates to in vivo protection . all animals given mabs at high adcc unit doses were protected . some but not all mice given mabs at high adcc unit doses were protected . these studies designate specific epitopes recognized by protective antibodies and indicate that protection from the neurologic spread of hsv may be related to neutralization , adcc , or both . the actual contribution of adcc and neutralization to in vivo antibody-mediated protection remains unclear . 
epidemiologic patterns of wild-type hepatitis a virus determined by genetic variation . hepatitis a virus ( hav ) isolates from different parts of the world are a single serotype . however , genetic analysis of the vp1 genome region of published hav sequences suggested that distinct genotypes of hav could be defined based upon the geographic source of the original isolates . to circumvent the process of cell culture adaptation or animal passage , a 247-bp segment within the vp1 genome region of wild-type hav was amplified by reverse transcription followed by polymerase chain reaction amplification in the presence of negative - and positive-sense primers . from the sequences obtained from 22 epidemiologically distinct hav isolates , three genetic groups of hav could be delineated . two of the groups differed by 10 % , while the third group differed from other isolates by approximately 20 % . these investigations indicate that hav isolates from different parts of the world can be differentiated genetically , which will facilitate studies of epidemiologic transmission . 
genome analysis of adenovirus type 31 strains from immunocompromised and immunocompetent patients . adenovirus type 31 ( ad31 ) was isolated from 15 immunocompromised patients in 12 of whom seroconversion was also recorded . ad31 infection has a substantial clinical relevance since 8 of 10 with lower respiratory tract infection and 4 of 4 with hepatitis died . therefore , ad31 isolates from immunocompetent and immunodeficient hosts were compared by restriction endonuclease analysis . nine genome types were identified among the 79 ad31 isolates . pairwise comparison of comigrating restriction fragments indicated that the genome types could be divided into three genomic clusters . several ad31 genome types were isolated from immunocompromised patients , but no highly virulent genome type could be found . a genome type was identified in a child with severe combined immunodeficiency who originally was infected with another genome type . this observation is suggested to have evolutionary implications . 
comparison of heterotypic protection against influenza a/taiwan/86 ( h1n1 ) by attenuated and inactivated vaccines to a/chile/83-like viruses . children ( n = 192 ) aged 3-19 years from 98 families completed this double-blind , placebo-controlled study comparing the efficacy of a bivalent attenuated ( cr ) vaccine with trivalent inactivated ( ti ) vaccine . both vaccines contained a/chile/83 ( h1n1 ) - like antigens . after vaccination the geometric mean titer to a/taiwan/86 ( h1n1 ) was 1:36 in the cr group , 1:92 in the ti group , and 1:5 in the placebo group . during the influenza a/taiwan/86 ( h1n1 ) epidemic , 21.4 % of cr recipients , 16.7 % of ti recipients , and 43.9 % of placebo recipients were infected with influenza a/taiwan . ti vaccine provided better heterotypic protection than did cr vaccine for children aged 10-18 years ( infection rate , 0 vs. 24 % , respectively ; p less than .025 ) ; in contrast , in the younger children ( 3-9 years ) , cr vaccine tended to be more protective ( 19 % vs. 26 % for ti ) . 
recovery of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 from semen : minimal impact of stage of infection and current antiviral chemotherapy . because exposure to semen is important for the sexual transmission of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv ) , the relationship of stage of infection and antiviral chemotherapy to isolation of hiv from semen was investigated . whereas hiv was isolated from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of all seropositive persons tested , it was isolated from semen in only 11 ( 32 % ) of 34 men , including 3 of 6 who were studied sequentially over time . hiv was isolated from 6 ( 32 % ) of 19 semen specimens from 14 asymptomatic persons ( centers for disease control [ cdc ] class ii or iii ) and from 10 ( 28 % ) of 36 semen specimens from 20 symptomatic patients ( cdc class iv ) . isolation of hiv from semen did not correlate with cd4 + or cd8 + t lymphocytes counts or zidovudine therapy . seropositive men may shed hiv in semen early in the course of infection , and zidovudine therapy seems to have no effect on the recovery of hiv and , thus , on the potential for sexual transmission of hiv . 
antiidiotypic responses to immunization with anti-leu 3a in human immunodeficiency virus-seropositive individuals . anti-idiotypic antibodies to anti-cd4 monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) have been reported to bind to the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) envelope glycoprotein gp120 . to establish whether hiv-infected patients can mount an anti-idiotypic response to murine mab , four individuals with symptoms of aids-related complex ( arc ) were immunized over 10 weeks with six intramuscular injections of anti-leu 3a ( 1 mg ) . despite their immunocompromised state , all patients made anti-constant region and anti-idiotypic antibodies , although the amplitude of the responses varied between individuals . no significant toxic or allergic reactions were seen , and there were no changes in clinical status during the 6 months after immunization . no increase in serum hiv-neutralization titers was seen , and purified anti-idiotypic antibodies did not bind gp120 . 
comparative virologic studies of condylomata acuminata reveal a lack of dual infections with human papillomaviruses . condylomata acuminata are epithelial proliferations caused by infection of the anogenital squamous epithelium with human papillomavirus ( hpv ) . dna-dna hybridization techniques and the extremely sensitive polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) were used to analyze biopsies from patients with clinically diagnosed condyloma acuminatum for the presence of hpv dna . pcr analyses using primers and oligonucleotide probes specific for the e6/e7 region of hpv-6 , -11 , or -16 showed that 31 ( 93.9 % ) of 33 tissue biopsies contained hpv dna : 22 contained type 6 dna , 6 contained type 11 dna , and 3 contained type 16 dna . eleven biopsies positive by pcr were southern hybridization-negative or were considered inadequate for southern analysis . in all 11 , the presence of hpv dna was corroborated by the observation of histopathologic evidence suggestive of hpv infection or by in situ hybridization . no evidence of multiple infections with hpv-6 or -11 and hpv-16 was seen . 
encephalitogenicity for rats of myelin basic protein without the aid of water-in-oil emulsions . the induction of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis ( eae ) with purified myelin basic protein ( mbp ) has , heretofore , required its incorporation in a water-in-oil emulsion or adsorption on particulate adjuvants . in the present work , the absorption of a saline solution of mbp from the peritoneal cavity into the mediastinal lymph nodes was increased by giving repeated inoculations or by pretreating rats with a peritoneal irritant . under these conditions , the only adjuvant needed for production of eae was aqueous pertussis vaccine which was injected separately a few hours or one day after the mbp . pertussis vaccine was also necessary for production of eae with intradermal injection of aqueous mbp . by injecting the aqueous mbp directly into pre-enlarged popliteal lymph nodes , it was possible to produce eae without the pertussis vaccine . thus , eae can be induced in rats using mbp without the addition of freund 's adjuvant or pertussis vaccine . 
dietary intake in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , patients with aids-related complex , and serologically positive human immunodeficiency virus patients : correlations with nutritional status . one of the major clinical manifestations of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) and aids-related complex ( arc ) is the development of cachexia . this most likely results from a multifactorial interplay of poor diet , malabsorption , and altered metabolism . to assess the potential role of nutrient intake in the development or persistence of malnutrition , a detailed analysis was performed of a 72-hr diet record in clinically stable patients with aids ( n = 18 ) , arc ( n = 12 ) and in human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) seropositive controls without significant manifestations of disease ( n = 13 ) . total calorie intake was 39.1 + / - 13.2 kcal/kg/day in aids patients vs 34.6 + / - 7.8 kcal/kg/day in arc patients or 31.9 + / - 17.7 kcal/kg/day in hiv seropositive cases ( all p = ns ) . likewise , mean protein intakes were similar among the groups and exceeded recommended daily dietary allowance ( rda ) guidelines . the mean body weight changes from the inception of illness were -11 + / - 1 % in aids , -6 + / - 7 % in arc , vs +3 + / - 2 % in hiv-seropositive-only cases ( p less than 0.05 vs aids and arc ) . dietary vitamin and mineral analysis revealed that 88 % of aids , 88 % of hiv seropositive , and 89 % of arc patients were ingesting less than 50 % rda for at least one nutrient . the mean number of deficiencies per patient was 1.8 + / - 1.3 in aids , 3.8 + / - 3.5 in arc , and 2.9 + / - 2.5 in hiv-seropositive-only cases ( p less than 0.05 aids vs arc ) . there were no significant correlations between specific anthropometric measurements and dietary intakes of protein or fat . 
children born to women with hiv-1 infection : natural history and risk of transmission . european collaborative study . 600 children born to hiv-infected mothers by june 15 , 1990 , in ten european centres were followed to study the natural history of hiv infection and the vertical transmission rate . they were seen at birth , every 3 months up to 18 months of age , and every 6 months thereafter . at last follow-up , 64 children were judged to be hiv infected and 343 had lost antibody and were presumed uninfected . the initial clinical feature in infected children was usually a combination of persistent lymphadenopathy , splenomegaly , and hepatomegaly , though 30 % of children presented with aids , or with oral candidosis followed rapidly by aids . an estimated 83 % of infected children show laboratory or clinical features of hiv infection by 6 months of age . by 12 months , 26 % have aids and 17 % die of hiv-related disease . subsequently , the disease progresses more slowly and most children remain stable or even improve during the second year . the vertical transmission rate , based on results in 372 children born at least 18 months before the analysis , was 12.9 % ( 95 % cl 9.5-16 .3 % ) . virus has been repeatedly isolated in an additional small proportion of children ( 2.5 % , 95 % cl 0.7-6 .3 % ) who lost maternal antibody and have remained clinically and immunologically normal . without a definitive virological diagnosis , the monitoring of immunoglobulins , cd4/cd8 ratio , and clinical signs could identify hiv infection in 48 % of infected children by 6 months , with a specificity of more than 99 % . 
a controlled trial comparing vidarabine with acyclovir in neonatal herpes simplex virus infection . infectious diseases collaborative antiviral study group . background . despite the use of vidarabine , herpes simplex virus ( hsv ) infection in neonates continues to be a disease of high morbidity and mortality . we undertook a controlled trial comparing vidarabine with acyclovir for the treatment of neonatal hsv infection . methods . babies less than one month of age with virologically confirmed hsv infection were randomly and blindly assigned to receive either intravenous vidarabine ( 30 mg per kilogram of body weight per day ; n = 95 ) or acyclovir ( 30 mg per kilogram per day ; n = 107 ) for 10 days . actuarial rates of mortality and morbidity among the survivors after one year were compared overall and according to the extent of the disease at entry into the study ( infection confined to the skin , eyes , or mouth ; encephalitis ; or disseminated disease ) . results . after adjustment for differences between groups in the extent of disease , there was no difference between vidarabine and acyclovir in either morbidity ( p = 0.83 ) or mortality ( p = 0.27 ) . none of the 85 babies with disease confined to the skin , eyes , or mouth died . of the 31 babies in this group who were treated with vidarabine and followed for a year , 88 percent ( 22 of 25 ) were judged to be developing normally after one year , as compared with 98 percent ( 45 of 46 ) of the 54 treated with acyclovir ( 95 percent confidence interval for the difference , -4 to 24 ) . for the 71 babies with encephalitis , mortality was 14 percent with vidarabine ( 5 of 36 ) and with acyclovir ( 5 of 35 ) ; of the survivors , 43 percent ( 13 of 30 ) and 29 percent ( 8 of 28 ) , respectively , were developing normally after one year ( 95 percent confidence interval for the difference , -11 to 39 ) . for the 46 babies with disseminated disease , mortality was 50 percent ( 14 of 28 ) with vidarabine and 61 percent ( 11 of 18 ) with acyclovir ( 95 percent confidence interval for the difference , -20 to 40 ) ; of the survivors , 58 percent ( 7 of 12 ) and 60 percent ( 3 of 5 ) , respectively , were judged to be developing normally after one year ( 95 percent confidence interval for the difference , -40 to 50 ) . both medications were without serious toxic effects . conclusions . in this multicenter , randomized , blinded study there were no differences in outcome between vidarabine and acyclovir in the treatment of neonatal hsv infection . the study lacked statistical power to determine whether there were sizable differences within the subgroups of those with localized hsv , encephalitis , or disseminated disease . 
predictors of morbidity and mortality in neonates with herpes simplex virus infections . the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases collaborative antiviral study group . background . in a controlled trial comparing acyclovir with vidarabine in the treatment of neonatal herpes simplex virus ( hsv ) infection , we found no significant difference between the treatments in adjusted mortality and morbidity . hence , we sought to define for the entire cohort ( n = 202 ) the clinical characteristics that best predicted the eventual outcome in these neonates . methods . data were gathered prospectively at 27 centers between 1981 and 1988 in infants less than one month of age who had virologically confirmed hsv infection . we examined the outcomes by multivariate analyses of 24 variables . disease was classified in one of three categories based on the extent of the involvement at entry into the trial : infection confined to skin , eyes , or mouth ; encephalitis ; or disseminated infection . results and conclusions . there were no deaths among the 85 infants with localized hsv infection . the mortality rate was significantly higher in the 46 neonates with disseminated infection ( 57 percent ) than in the 71 with encephalitis ( 15 percent ) . in addition , the risk of death was increased in neonates who were in or near coma at entry ( relative risk , 5.2 ) , had disseminated intravascular coagulopathy ( relative risk , 3.8 ) , or were premature ( relative risk , 3.7 ) . in babies with disseminated disease , hsv pneumonitis was also associated with greater mortality ( relative risk , 3.6 ) . in the survivors , morbidity was most frequent in infants with encephalitis ( relative risk , 4.4 ) , disseminated infection ( relative risk , 2.1 ) , seizures ( relative risk , 3.0 ) , or infection with hsv type 2 ( relative risk , 4.9 ) . with hsv infection limited to the skin , eyes , or mouth , the presence of three or more recurrences of vesicles was associated with an increased risk of neurologic impairment as compared with two or fewer recurrences . 
syncytial giant-cell hepatitis . sporadic hepatitis with distinctive pathological features , a severe clinical course , and paramyxoviral features . background and methods . we describe a new form of hepatitis , occurring in 10 patients over a period of six years , characterized clinically by manifestations of severe hepatitis , histologically by large syncytial giant hepatocytes , and ultrastructurally by intracytoplasmic structures consistent with paramyxoviral nucleocapsids . results . the patients ranged in age from 5 months to 41 years . the tentative clinical diagnosis before biopsy was non-a , non-b hepatitis in five patients and autoimmune chronic active hepatitis in the others . five patients underwent liver transplantation ; the others died . the diagnosis of syncytial giant-cell hepatitis was established pathologically . the liver cords were replaced in all 10 patients by syncytial giant cells with up to 30 nuclei . in 8 of the 10 the cytoplasm contained pleomorphic particles of 150 to 250 microns , filamentous strands , and particles of 14 to 17 nm with peripherally disposed spikes resembling paramyxoviral nucleocapsids . structures resembling degenerated forms were found in the other two patients . one of two chimpanzees injected with a liver homogenate from the index patient had an increase in the titer of paramyxoviral antibodies , probably an anamnestic reaction to previous paramyxoviral infection , suggesting that a paramyxoviral antigen but not viable virus was present in the liver homogenate . conclusions . although further virologic studies will be required for precise classification , we believe that paramyxoviruses should be considered in patients with severe sporadic hepatitis . 
progression of human papillomavirus type 18-immortalized human keratinocytes to a malignant phenotype . we have developed a model system for progression of human epithelial cells to malignancy , using a human papillomavirus type 18 ( hpv-18 ) - immortalized human keratinocyte cell line . cells of cell line fep-1811 were nontumorigenic in athymic mice through at least 12 passages in culture , but after 32 passages were weakly tumorigenic , producing tumors that regressed . after 62 passages they produced invasive squamous cell carcinomas that grew progressively . the progression to malignancy was associated with an increase in the efficiency of forming colonies in soft agar and with altered differentiation properties . in an organotypic culture system , fep-1811 cells at passages 12 and 32 exhibited features typical of premalignant intraepithelial neoplasia in vivo , and cells at passage 68 exhibited features consistent with squamous cell carcinomas . no change in copy number of the transfected hpv-18 genome or in the level of expression of the viral transforming gene products e6 and e7 was detected between tumorigenic and nontumorigenic cells . cytogenetic analysis of cells at early , middle , and late passage levels and cells cultured from tumors revealed that several chromosomal abnormalities segregated with the tumorigenic cell populations . 
efficacy of induction therapy in cadaveric renal transplantation comparing rabbit antithymocyte serum and minnesota antilymphoblast globulin . from august 1986 to july 1989 , 98 patients receiving primary cadaveric kidney transplants received either rats ( n = 50 ) or malg ( n = 48 ) during the induction phase of a quadruple immunosuppressive protocol . patient groups were well matched . the duration of rats and malg treatment and the time of cya induction were equivalent . serum creatinine and rejection episodes up to 1 year were not statistically different . hematologic side effects resulted in dose reduction of malg in 42 % of patients without adverse rejection results . in the rats group , no dosage reductions were required . one-year patient survivals ( 96 % to 100 % ) , and 1-year graft survival ( 82 % to 85 % ) were not significantly different in the 2 groups . infectious complications were 30 % higher in the malg group and a significant factor in 2 deaths . monitoring of lymphocyte subsets revealed insignificant differences in the percent of decrease of each cell population between malg and rats groups during induction . 
depression , distress , lymphocyte subsets , and human immunodeficiency virus symptoms on two occasions in hiv-positive homosexual men . we evaluated the extent to which depressive disorders , psychiatric distress , and psychosocial stressors are related to three measures of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) illness , both cross-sectionally and during a 6-month period , in a community sample of 124 hiv-positive homosexual men . the dependent variables are immune status measured by cd4 and cd8 cell subsets , number of signs and symptoms commonly associated with hiv infection , and a cumulative index of hiv illness stage . we chose to focus on cd4 cell count because it is the immune marker most closely linked to the clinical consequences of hiv infection . we found no relationships between the independent variables and immune status or illness stage . the hiv-positive men who were depressed or distressed or who reported more life stressors had no greater immunosuppression or more advanced illness stage than did the others , either concurrently or across occasions . we did find a suggestive pattern of association between depressive disorders , distress , and stressors and the number of hiv-related symptoms , which warrants further study . 
multidisciplinary baseline assessment of homosexual men with and without human immunodeficiency virus infection . i. overview of study design . although much is known about the virus believed by most experts to be the cause of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and about its pathogenic actions , major areas of ignorance remain . among these are the reasons for the varying time between infection with human immunodeficiency virus and development of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , the relationship between neurologic and medical aspects of the disease , the time course of neuropsychological findings , and the prevalence of psychiatric morbidity . we assessed 124 homosexual men who were positive for human immunodeficiency virus and 84 who were negative for the virus . in this article we describe the study design , method of recruitment , and medical and demographic characteristics of the cohort , which will be followed up for 5 years . 
multidisciplinary baseline assessment of homosexual men with and without human immunodeficiency virus infection . ii . standardized clinical assessment of current and lifetime psychopathology . despite numerous reports of the psychiatric consequences of human immunodeficiency virus infection , few reports describe systematic diagnostic assessments of people with human immunodeficiency virus infection . we studied the results of standardized clinical assessments of current and lifetime psychopathology in a large group of homosexual men whose serologic status was known . results indicated low rates of current mental disorders but very high rates of lifetime major depression and alcohol and other psychoactive substance abuse and dependence disorders . measures of severity of psychopathology and functioning also indicated , on the whole , good current functioning . no significant relationship was found between stage of medical illness or immune status and any measure of psychiatric disturbance . 
multidisciplinary baseline assessment of homosexual men with and without human immunodeficiency virus infection . iii . neurologic and neuropsychological findings . we explored the possibility that neurologic and neuropsychological changes constitute the earliest detectable manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . without knowledge of hiv status , we assessed neurologic signs and symptoms and administered a battery of neuropsychological tests to 208 homosexual men , of whom 84 were hiv negative , 49 were hiv positive and asymptomatic , 29 were mildly symptomatic , and 46 had significant medical symptoms but not the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . there was no difference between the hiv-negative and hiv-positive men in the frequency of neurologic signs or of defective or borderline performance on any neuropsychological test . however , hiv-positive men performed slightly but significantly worse than hiv-negative men on tests of verbal memory , executive function , and language . similar results were obtained when comparisons were limited to hiv-positive medically asymptomatic and hiv-negative men . there was no degradation of neurologic status or neuropsychological performance across stages of hiv severity , but neurologic and neuropsychological summary scores correlated with cd4/cd8 ratios in the hiv-positive group . ratings of neurologic signs and symptoms correlated with neuropsychological summary scores in the hiv-positive group only . cognitive complaints were more frequent in the hiv-positive men ; they correlated with actual test performance in the hiv-positive but not hiv-negative men . the constellation of subjective and objective neuropsychological and neurologic findings suggests the possibility of a definable syndrome associated with hiv infection in asymptomatic individuals . 
a preliminary report on the neuropsychologic sequelae of human immunodeficiency virus . the neuropsychologic sequelae of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and human immunodeficiency virus were studied by comparing the results of a neuropsychologic test battery administered to the following three groups of danish homosexual men : 20 patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , 20 asymptomatic subjects who tested positive for the human immunodeficiency virus , and a matched control group of 20 subjects who tested negative for the human immunodeficiency virus . the group with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome performed significantly worse than the control subjects on the tests measuring concentration , memory , and psychomotor speed . the group with human immunodeficiency virus performed significantly worse than the control subjects on the tests measuring verbal memory and psychomotor speed . on the other tests , their results varied . the study supports the hypothesis that not only patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome but also asymptomatic subjects with human immunodeficiency virus may be neuropsychologically impaired early in the course of the disease . 
effectiveness of psychoeducational interventions in reducing emotional distress after human immunodeficiency virus antibody testing . to examine the effectiveness of three psychoeducational interventions in reducing emotional distress after voluntary serologic testing for human immunodeficiency virus-1 ,307 physically asymptomatic adults were randomly assigned to standard counseling , counseling plus a three-session interactive video program , or counseling plus six individual sessions of stress prevention training . subjects were evaluated using five standardized distress measures at entry and 3 months later . among the 204 human immunodeficiency virus-seronegative subjects , mean distress measures decreased significantly after all three interventions without differential treatment effects . among the 103 human immunodeficiency virus-seropositive subjects , mean distress measures decreased significantly after the stress prevention training and did not significantly increase in the other two interventions . we conclude that stress prevention training is particularly helpful after notification of human immunodeficiency virus seropositivity . 
pathogenesis of corneal oedema associated with herpetic eye disease . corneal oedema and stromal disease , induced in rabbits by intrastromal injection of herpes simplex virus , type 1 , strain re ( hsv-1 , re ) , reached a peak of 12-15 days after infection . corneal oedema as measured by ultrasonic pachymetry , and stromal disease as measured by a subjective scoring system , were closely related for 30 days after infection . morphometric analysis of wide field specular micrographs showed that no immediate endothelial cell damage occurred in either control or hsv-1 infected corneas . alizarin red s staining of corneas taken during the period of most severe oedema indicated no significant endothelial cell loss ; however , visual inspection indicated numerous staining abnormalities . scanning and transmission electron microscopy provided evidence of an intact endothelial layer possessing integrated infiltrating cells . virus antigen could not be detected on endothelial cells by immunoperoxidase staining at any time during development of corneal oedema . the results indicate that corneal oedema associated with hsv-1 induced disease can occur in the absence of detectable virus replication and cytolysis of corneal endothelial cells . 
infectious mononucleosis presenting as bilateral acute dacryocystitis . a case of infectious mononucleosis presenting as bilateral acute dacryocystitis in a 7-year-old girl is reported . acute dacryocystitis is uncommon in this age group , and an underlying systemic illness should be suspected particularly when it is bilateral . 
utility of bronchoscopic sampling techniques for cryptococcal disease in aids . although cryptococcal pneumonia is a well recognized complication of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , optimal diagnostic approaches remain to be defined . during a 32-month period ( october 1984 to june 1987 ) , 11 patients were diagnosed with cp at our institution . the diagnosis was established in all 11 patients from specimens obtained via fiberoptic bronchoscopy ( ten ) and/or double-lumen catheter lavage ( one ) . direct stains of sedimented bronchoalveolar lavage were positive for organisms characteristic of cryptococcus neoformans in nine of 11 patients . transbronchial biopsies were positive ( special histologic stains ) in six of eight patients ; bronchial washings were positive ( direct smear ) in seven of ten patients , the bronchial brushings were positive on stain in six of nine patients , and in one patient , a wang transbronchial needle aspirate was positive on stain . fungal cultures were positive on the bal in seven of 11 patients , and on the bronchial washings in four of ten patients ; the tbbx culture samples were all negative ( zero of three ) . the serum cryptococcal antigen titer was elevated ( median = 1:1024 ) in all eight patients in which it was assayed . our data suggest that bal and bronchial washings have a combined sensitivity on smear equal to that of tbbx and superior to that of tbbx fungal culture . the tbbx does not appear to be necessary in this setting . in addition , an elevated serum cryptococcal antigen titer appears to be an important adjunct in the evaluation of pulmonary infiltrates in aids . 
the acute aseptic meningitis syndrome . the acute aseptic meningitis syndrome is an entity that presents a diagnostic challenge to the clinician . although many infectious and noninfectious etiologies exist for this syndrome , viruses , especially nonpolio enteroviruses , are the classic and most important agents encountered . the incidence of polio and mumps meningitis has declined dramatically in the vaccine era , but recently described pathogens , such as human immunodeficiency virus and borrelia burgdorferi ( lyme disease agent ) are now important considerations in the differential diagnosis . specifically treatable entities ( eg , mycobacterial or fungal meningitis , herpes simplex encephalitis , parameningeal infection ) that may mimic aseptic meningitis in their initial presentations must not be overlooked . a careful approach to the patient and a rational use of laboratory studies are the basis for establishing a specific diagnosis and assuring a favorable outcome . 
should family physicians test for human papillomavirus infection ? an opposing view . recent advances in the field of molecular biology have expanded the knowledge of hpv manifestations . we have attempted to separate those circumstances when hpv testing may be useful in patient management and when it may not . routine screening for hpv has not yet been shown to be useful . one must weigh informing 10 % of patients that they have a potentially oncogenic virus against the ability of a repeat papanicolaou smear to detect the lesion . on the other hand , hpv detection in the setting of an abnormal papanicolaou smear and an acetowhite lesion that on biopsy lacks the histologic features of cil does predict who is at high risk for cil . hpv typing should not affect clinical management , and we do not recommend it . hpv detection by in situ hybridization is a very useful adjunct to histological analysis in genital tract lesions that are clinically suggestive of an hpv lesion but where the histological analysis is equivocal . this ability to distinguish true hpv lesions from its mimics is often crucial to the patient , given the implications of having a sexually transmitted disease . 
infectious mononucleosis , epstein-barr virus , and chronic fatigue syndrome : a prospective case series epstein-barr viral infection , specifically infectious mononucleosis , typically has a more protracted course than other acute viral illnesses . some recent observers have additionally suggested the possibility that epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) is the etiologic infectious agent in chronic fatigue syndrome , based on the finding of higher proportions of elevated antibodies to the ebv early antigen in some patients complaining of chronic fatigue . straus et al reported on 23 patients with chronic fatigue , 83 % of whom exhibited persistently elevated antibodies in modest titer to the early antigen . ten of these patients had never fully recovered from an episode of acute infectious mononucleosis . other studies had noted similar associations between persistently elevated antibodies to ebv-specific antigens and chronic symptoms in patients who presented with chronic symptoms after mononucleosis . three important antigen complexes , demonstrable by immunofluorescence procedures , are expressed in ebv-infected cells . the early antigen is thought to function perhaps in early replication of viral dna . a late antigenic complex , the viral capsid antigen , may represent , in addition to structural capsid proteins , components of the viral enzymatic machinery for late phases of replication or transformation . the epstein-barr nuclear antigen is felt to function in viral transformation of host cells . 
vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia . a clinicopathologic study of 60 cases . sixty cases of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia ( vin ) were analyzed clinicopathologically ( 24 vin i , 9 vin ii , 27 vin iii ) . the ages of the patients ranged from 21 to 83 years ( mean , 53.7 ) . colposcopic examinations showed the presence of white areas in 29 cases , red areas in 9 , acetowhite areas in 6 and other alterations in 13 . one-third of the lesions were multifocal . pruritus and burning were present in 65 % of the cases . fifty-one percent of the cases showed histologic changes suggestive of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) infection ; the mean age of those patients was significantly lower than that of patients without hpv infection . in 15 cases of vin , hpv dna testing was performed with southern blot hybridization ; in three ( 20 % ) of those specimens hpv 16 episomal dna was identified . epithelial alterations surrounding the areas of vin were found in 24 cases ( 40 % ) -23 squamous cellular hyperplasias and 1 lichen sclerosus . different types of treatment were performed according to the different grades of vin : medical therapy , diathermocoagulation , local excision , hemivulvectomy and total vulvectomy . follow-up was possible in 52 cases , with a mean of 33 months ( range , 3-98 ) . two cases of vin i showed progression of disease over 12-24 months . 
improved detection of rotavirus shedding by polymerase chain reaction . to improve identification of children excreting rotavirus a method for the amplification of rotavirus rna by the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) was developed . the assay was compared with a solid-phase enzyme immunoassay in the detection of rotavirus shedding by infants in hospital during the winter peak of rotavirus infections . forty children were studied in an intermediate care unit after transfer from intensive care units . only two were admitted primarily because of diarrhoea ; the other thirty-eight were admitted for management of various other disorders . rotavirus shedding was detected by enzyme immunoassay in twenty of the infants , and nine of these ( aged 1 week to 8 months ) remained in hospital for more than 5 days after the initial detection of rotavirus and could be studied long term . of 103 faecal samples from the nine infants , 60 ( 58 % ) contained rotavirus rna detected by reverse-transcriptase ( rt ) / pcr , whereas only 37 ( 36 % ) were positive for rotavirus antigen by the immunoassay ( chi 2 = 10.3 , p less than 0.002 ) . the geometric mean time of rotavirus shedding was 9.5 ( range 1-19 ) days as detected by rt/pcr and 5.7 ( range 1-17 ) days by the immunoassay ( p less than 0.018 ) . in five of the nine children , rt/pcr detected rotavirus shedding for 2-7 days longer than the immunoassay and in four children rt/pcr was positive 1 or more days before rotavirus antigen was detected . further studies should attempt to find out whether infected infants are capable of spreading wild-type virus during periods when they are not shedding antigen as detectable by enzyme immunoassay . 
spontaneous lymphocyte proliferation in htlv-ii infection . we measured lymphocyte proliferation in the absence of antigenic stimulation in 45 htlv-ii infected , 9 htlv-i infected , and 19 htlv-i seronegative intravenous drug users ( ivdu ) . lymphocyte proliferation was higher in ivdus infected with htlv-ii than in seronegative ivdus but lower than among those infected with htlv-i . higher rates of proliferation were also associated with needle sharing , cd4 + and il2r + lymphocyte counts , and htlv-i antibody titres . 
epidemiology of acute respiratory infections in young children from thailand . a prospective evaluation of the epidemiology and presentations of acute respiratory infections in children younger than 5 years of age admitted to children 's hospital bangkok ( 1988 to 1989 ) was supported by the world health organization . there were 226 patients with the inclusion criteria : 1 to 5 years of age ; duration of illness less than 2 weeks ; no prior antibiotic therapy ; and low socioeconomic status . the disease categories included : croup , 19 cases ; bronchiolitis , 60 cases ; and pneumonia , 147 cases . pathogens isolated were : respiratory syncytial virus ( 40 ) ; parainfluenza iii ( 1 ) ; influenza b ( 1 ) ; and adenovirus ( 1 ) ; bacterial infections were proved in 23 cases . no significant differences in clinical features between bacterial and viral pneumonia were found . interstitial radiographic patterns were more common in viral pneumonia whereas alveolar patterns were more common in bacterial pneumonia . however , 91 % of mixed radiographic patterns ( interstitial and alveolar ) in chest films were from viral pneumonia . 
viral pneumonia in the first month of life . we performed a 5-year review of 40 patients less than or equal to 30 days of age with viral pneumonia . isolates included respiratory syncytial virus ( 55 % ) , enteroviruses ( 15 % ) , rhinoviruses ( 15 % ) , adenoviruses ( 10 % ) , parainfluenza virus ( 7.5 % ) and herpes simplex virus ( 5 % ) . most infants were previously healthy but had ill family members . nine were born at less than 37 weeks of gestation . symptoms and signs included tachypnea , decreased feeding , cough , cyanosis , lethargy , retractions , apnea , bradycardia , seizures and depressed consciousness . seasonality and clinical features , but not radiographic patterns , suggested specific pathogens . patients were moderately to severely ill . the median duration of hospitalization was 7 days ; therapies administered included oxygen ( 90 % ) , mechanical ventilation ( 45 % ) , blood transfusions ( 25 % ) and supplemental oxygen after discharge ( 27 % ) . the case fatality rate was 7.5 % . prematurity , ill appearance at presentation , lobar consolidation and adenovirus infection were risk factors for severe disease . 
sexually transmitted viral disease in women . during the past decade , the incidence of sexually transmitted viral diseases has increased dramatically . in many cases , diagnosis is difficult , consequences are severe , and curative therapy is not available at present . in this article , drs peaceman and gonik review current evidence about sexual transmission of viruses and discuss the latest methods of diagnosis , management , and prevention . 
voluntary human immunodeficiency virus testing : acceptance levels and identification of seropositive individuals . of 4340 clients of a clinic for those with sexually transmitted diseases who were eligible for voluntary , confidential , serologic testing for the human immunodeficiency virus , 4246 ( 97.8 % ) consented to testing ; 23 ( 0.5 % ) were seropositive . of 94 persons who declined voluntary testing but who were tested in a blinded study , nine ( 9.6 % ) were seropositive . seropositive persons who declined voluntary testing did not conceal their association with a risk group , while only 61 % of seropositive individuals who accepted voluntary testing admitted to inclusion in a risk group before the test . voluntary testing appears to be insufficient , because 28 % of the seropositive individuals were not identified as being seropositive ; also , there was a significant deficiency associated with identification of risk at pretest counseling among persons agreeing to voluntary testing . 
bronchial hyperresponsiveness in normal subjects during attenuated influenza virus infection . fourteen healthy male subjects with hemagglutination-inhibition antibody titers of 1:8 or less to homologous influenza a virus were studied . six subjects received live , attenuated influenza virus by nasal drops and by aerosol . although infection occurred in these six subjects , with the development of 4-fold or greater increases in hemagglutination-inhibition antibody titers , they remained asymptomatic . eight subjects received placebo via the same route , and did not develop symptoms and showed no increase in antibody titer . prior to administration of virus or placebo , histamine diphosphate aerosol increased airway resistance only slightly , and there was no difference between the virus and placebo groups . two days after inoculation , bronchomotor responses in the placebo group were unchanged ( p greater than 0.05 ) , but in the virus-infected group , bronchomotor responses were significantly greater than in the preinfected state ( p less than 0.01 ) . isoproterenol hydrochloride reversed and prevented the increase in airway resistance after histamine , suggesting that the bronchoconstriction was caused by smooth muscle contraction . our findings indicate that transient , asymptomatic respiratory virus infection augments airway smooth muscle responses . 
aggressive cavitary pulmonary sarcoidosis . pulmonary sarcoidosis in a young patient is usually a relatively benign disease that either resolves spontaneously or remains quiescent for many years . very rarely it pursues a more aggressive course leading to progressive lung destruction . we report a young patient who presented with stage iii sarcoidosis and over a period of 4 yr progressed to severe cavitary disease with frequent superinfections leading to bronchiectasis and chronic suppuration of the lung , eventually requiring a pneumonectomy . 
fine-needle aspiration evaluation of lymphoproliferative lesions in human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients . a multiparameter approach . forty-six fine-needle aspirates of lymphoproliferative lesions from 31 human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - positive patients were reviewed using cytomorphologic , immunocytochemical , flow cytometric ( fcm ) , cytogenetic , and molecular studies . there were 29 lymphomas ( 15 small non-cleaved cell [ sncl ] , 11 large cell [ lcl ] , one small lymphocytic , and two hodgkin 's ) , 14 reactive hyperplasias , and three " atypical lymphoid proliferations . " the reactive hyperplasias were characteristically polymorphic and polyclonal lymphoid populations ; six of seven were diploid on fcm , the seventh was hypodiploid . higher proliferative indices ( mean , 11.6 % ) and higher rna indices ( mean , 1.2 ) characterized this subgroup compared with published reactive lymphoid hyperplasias from patients without hiv positivity . aspirates of sncl showed monotonous populations of intermediate-sized cells except in one patient where a giant cell syncytial variant occurred . nine of 13 sncl aspirates showed light chain restriction . jh rearrangement revealed b-cell lineage in one aspirate in which immunocytochemical study was negative for kappa , lambda , b1 , and leu-4 . nine of 12 sncl were diploid ; the mean proliferative index was 25.6 % and the mean rna index 2.3 . chromosomal translocations involving the c-myc locus were demonstrated in five of seven sncl aspirates karyotyped . five of eight lcl showed light chain restriction the remaining three showed null cell phenotype . large cell lymphomas were diploid on tetraploid with the mean proliferative index of 22.0 % and mean rna index of 2.2 . one of two lcl aspirates karyotyped demonstrated c-myc translocation . despite the multiparameter approach , a definitive diagnosis could not be reached in three aspirates . 
induction of cd4 + , human t lymphotropic virus type-1-specific cytotoxic t lymphocytes from patients with ham/tsp . recognition of an immunogenic region of the gp46 envelope glycoprotein of human t lymphotropic virus type-1 . although the humoral response to human t lymphotropic virus type-1 ( htlv-i ) has been well characterized in patients with htlv-i-associated neurologic disease ( ham/tsp ) , little is known about a functional htlv-i-specific human t cell response , such as ctl , in these patients . to define both the phenotype of the responding ctl and the fine specificity of this response , long term t cell lines were generated from two ham/tsp patients who were from two different countries . patient 's peripheral blood lymphocytes were repeatedly stimulated in vitro with an htlv-i expressing autologous t cell line . the resultant long term t cell culture was shown to be cd4 + and cytotoxic for targets expressing htlv-i ag . using a panel of synthetic peptides that span hydrophilic regions of the htlv-i gp46 envelope glycoprotein , the ctl lines generated from both patients were shown to recognize the same region of the htlv-i envelope between amino acids 196-209 as defined by the synthetic peptide sp4a1 . interestingly , this sequence overlaps a region of htlv-i envelope that had also been shown to elicit a strong b cell response in ham/tsp patients ( amino acids 190-203 ) . one ctl line recognized this htlv-i epitope in the context of hla dq5 whereas the other ctl line was restricted by hla drw16 . the generation of two independent ctl lines from two ham/tsp patients from different geographic areas that recognize the same region of the htlv-i envelope glycoprotein highlights the immunogenic nature of this envelope region . 
acquired immune dysfunction in cats with experimentally induced feline immunodeficiency virus infection : comparison of short-term and long-term infections . specific pathogen-free domestic cats with experimentally induced feline immunodeficiency virus ( fiv ) infections of short duration ( less than or equal to 10 months ) exhibited depressed total leukocyte and neutrophil numbers and a marginally decreased lymphocyte proliferative response to pokeweed mitogen ( pwm ) , while cats with infections of more lengthy duration ( greater than or equal to 25 months ) exhibited normal leukocyte and neutrophil numbers but a dramatic loss of responsiveness to both pwm and concanavalin a ( con a ) . cats with short-term infections exhibited a decrease in the percentage of cd4 + lymphocytes in peripheral blood and a corresponding depression of the cd4 + : cd8 + ratio . cats with long-term infections exhibited a similar but more profound perturbation of the cd4 + lymphocyte subset that also included a decrease in the absolute number of cd4 + cells . the decreased responsiveness to con a and pwm in cats infected long term paralleled the decline in cd4 + cell counts , and the duration of infection was directly correlated with the decrease in the percentage of cd4 + cells . these data provide evidence supporting the hypothesis that fiv is the cause of an immune dysfunction in cats , with distinct similarities to that produced by human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) in people . 
marked elevations of serum alkaline phosphatase in patients with aids . we have observed many patients with aids who have unexplained marked elevations in serum alkaline phosphatase . to determine the frequency of alkaline phosphatase elevations in patients with aids , and to identify diagnoses , medications , and demographic factors associated with such elevations , we conducted a retrospective study of the first 90 consecutive aids cases in hospitals affiliated with the university of colorado health sciences center in denver , colorado . we found elevations of alkaline phosphatase in excess of 1,000 iu/l in 17 % of consecutive patients with aids . this level of elevation was less frequent in patients with kaposi 's sarcoma but there was otherwise no significant association with diagnoses or medications , or transmission categories for aids . the majority of the patients with elevations to this level did not have documented opportunistic infections or biliary tract dilatation previously described in the " cholangitis " syndrome in aids patients . other explanations for these elevations for this common laboratory finding may exist . 
zidovudine use in aids-free hiv-1-seropositive homosexual men in the multicenter aids cohort study ( macs ) , 1987-1989 . zidovudine use data were examined in the multicenter aids cohort study to determine ( i ) if the proportion of pre-aids participants ( i.e. , cd4 + cells less than 200/mm3 or aids-related complex ) taking zidovudine is high enough to explain a slower than expected rise in aids incidence in u.s. homosexual men since mid-1987 ; ( ii ) which factors are associated with starting zidovudine and clinical trials of zidovudine ; and ( iii ) if pre-aids patients , as a group , are being undertreated . data on zidovudine use , clinical trial participation , and sociodemographic , clinical , and hematologic variables were collected every 6 months from 1,195 aids-free hiv-1-seropositive homosexual men from april 1987 to september 1989 . overall prevalence of zidovudine use rose from 3.6 % in mid-1987 ( visit 7 ) to 23 % in mid-1989 ( visit 11 ) . of those with less than 200 cd4 + lymphocytes/mm3 , the prevalence of zidovudine use rose from 23 % ( 24 % if those taking zidovudine or placebo as part of a clinical trial are included ) at visit 7 to 58 % ( 69 % ) at visit 11 . of those with arc , 20 % ( 23 % ) were using zidovudine at visit 7 and 55 % ( 65 % ) at visit 11 . although numbers were small , the advanced arc participants ( cd4 + cells less than 200/mm3 and two or more symptoms ) reported the highest treatment rates ( 50 , 78 , 80 , 60 , and 74 % at visits 7-11 , respectively ) . by september 1989 , 42 % ( 31 % ) of those with cd4 + lymphocyte levels less than 200/mm3 were still not receiving zidovudine , suggesting that many high-risk , pre-aids individuals are being undertreated . to explore this finding further , we examined a range of sociodemographic , hematologic , and clinical variables to determine which factors best predicted initiation of zidovudine therapy outside of clinical trials . in multivariate analyses , cd4 + lymphocyte number was the most consistent predictor of initiation of therapy over all four study visits . for each 100 cells/mm3 deficit , the odds ratios were 2.3 ( 95 % c.i. of 1.7-3 .1 ) at visit 7 and 1.7 % ( 95 % c.i. of 1.4-2 .0 ) at visit 11 . symptom status and education level were also associated with starting zidovudine , but not at all visits . the relatively low predictive power of the clinical variables raises and the possibility that nonclinical factors not measured in the macs ( drug cost , third-party insurance restrictions , and individual preferences ) may play an important role in predicting zidovudine use . finally , comparisons were made between seropositive participants starting clinical trials of zidovudine and the rest of the study population . no important differences were found in demographic or major clinical variables between clinical trial participants and zidovudine nonusers in this study . 
abnormal single motor unit behavior in the upper motor neuron syndrome . we studied the discharge pattern of single motor units ( smus ) in the left and right biceps muscles from a patient with nonspastic weakness of the left arm . detailed statistical analysis of the behavior of discharge patterns of 4 of 4 single motor units on the affected side showed abnormalities with characteristic features of an upper motor neuron lesion . five out of 5 single motor units recorded from the right biceps were normal . an upper motor neuron lesion affecting the left arm , predicted by our results , was confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) , which showed a lesion in the right precentral gyrus . it appears that changes in single motor unit firing characteristics , caused by an upper motor neuron lesion , can be detected at a time when there is no evidence of increased " tone " and/or hyperreflexia ( spasticity ) in the affected extremity . 
htlv-i-associated myelopathy associated with blood transfusion in the united states : epidemiologic and molecular evidence linking donor and recipient . six months after receiving 58 units of blood components , a 65-year-old white man from new york city , with no other risk factors for human t-lymphotropic virus type i ( htlv-i ) infection , developed htlv-i-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis ( ham/tsp ) . investigation of blood donors identified a 25-year-old white hispanic woman from florida whose platelets had been given to the patient and who was seropositive for the virus on a serum specimen obtained 2 years after the donation . she was born in cuba and had had 2 sexual relationships with men who either had been born in or had resided in the caribbean . polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) studies of peripheral blood mononuclear cells indicated that both donor and recipient were infected with htlv-i . molecular studies of a 595-nucleotide sequence in the 5 ' envelope region of htlv-i indicated that the viruses from donor and recipient were identical in each of 32 positions in which published htlv-i sequences demonstrate molecular heterogeneity ; the donor and recipient viruses were also identical in 2 additional positions in which they differed from all published sequences . transfusion-associated ham/tsp has occurred in the united states , but additional cases should be prevented by screening blood donations for htlv-i . molecular studies of htlv-i may prove useful in defining the genetic heterogeneity of htlv-i isolates in the united states and in studying transmission of this virus . 
the role of htlv in hiv-1 neurologic disease . we performed a serologic survey for antibodies to htlv-i/ii in the course of a longitudinal study of the neurologic complications of hiv-1 infection . nine ( 3.7 % ) of 242 hiv-1 seropositive subjects and none of 60 hiv-1 seronegative control subjects had antibodies to htlv-i/ii by elisa . western blot and polymerase chain reaction confirmed the presence of htlv-i in 2 subjects and htlv-ii infection in 2 others . both hiv-1 / htlv-i coinfected subjects and 1 hiv-1 / htlv-ii coinfected subject had a slowly progressive myelopathy clinically identical tropical spastic paraparesis/htlv-i-associated myelopathy ( tsp/ham ) . the presence of a myelopathy resembling tsp/ham in the coinfected subjects suggests that hiv-1 may enhance the expression of neurologic disease caused by htlv . patients with a progressive myelopathy occurring in association with hiv-1 infection should be serologically tested for the presence of htlv . establishing dual infection has therapeutic and prognostic import as 1 of the hiv-1 / htlv-i subjects substantially improved with corticosteroids and the hiv-1 / htlv-ii subject with myelopathy had a marked improvement in the absence of therapeutic intervention . 
signs of cognitive change in hiv disease : an event-related brain potential study . we recorded event-related brain potentials ( erps ) from 2 groups of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - positive men with no physical illness or neurologic involvement : 9 asymptomatic ( as + ) and 9 classified as having either acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ; 7 ) or aids-related complex ( arc ; 2 ) . in separate choice reaction time tasks , the subjects pressed buttons to randomly presented auditory or visual stimuli at probabilities of either 20/80 or 50/50 . there were no group differences on any of the neuropsychological tests commonly used in screening batteries for hiv patients . in contrast , reduced p300 amplitudes and increased p300 latencies occurred in arc/aids patients in response to both auditory and visual stimuli , while in as + patients such alterations occurred only in the visual modality . significant delays in p2 latency were found only in the auditory modality and then only in arc/aids patients . arc/aids patients alone showed delayed response times , and only in the auditory modality . the p300 results demonstrate alterations in stimulus evaluation and processing speed in the earliest stages of hiv disease , even before cognitive deficits can be detected by more traditional measures . 
syphilitic meningomyelitis . a 28-year-old nonimmunocompromised man developed secondary syphilis confirmed by serum and csf findings . his course was complicated by chorioretinitis , extensive skin lesions , and spastic paraparesis secondary to syphilitic meningomyelitis . mri of the spinal cord was strikingly abnormal . 
peptide-induced antiviral protection by cytotoxic t cells . a specific antiviral cytotoxic immune response in vivo could be induced by the subcutaneous injection of the t-cell epitope of the lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus ( lcmv ) nucleoprotein as an unmodified free synthetic peptide ( arg-pro-gln-ala-ser-gly-val-tyr-met-gly-asn-leu-thr-ala-gln ) emulsified in incomplete freund 's adjuvant . this immunization rendered mice into a lcmv-specific protective state as shown by the inhibition of lcmv replication in spleens of such mice . the protection level of these mice correlated with the ability to respond to the peptide challenge by cd8 + virus-specific cytotoxic t cells . this is a direct demonstration that peptide vaccines can be antivirally protective in vivo , thus encouraging further search for appropriate mixtures of stable peptides that may be used as t-cell vaccines . 
a " pap " test for men ? male urethral smears as screening tool for detecting subclinical human papillomavirus infection . we have explored the potential of using immunoperoxidase staining and in situ dna hybridization techniques to detect the hpv common antigen and hpv dna ( subtypes 6/11 and 16/18 ) in urethral smears obtained from men with no grossly visible urethral lesions , with or without hpv-related clinical history . a total of 91 such smears were studied of which 25 ( 27.5 % ) were positive for hpv antigen . of the latter , 20 ( 80 % ) were positive for hpv 6/11 dna , 3 ( 12 % ) were positive for hpv 16/18 dna , one smear ( 4 % ) was positive for both , and one was negative for both . the technique of obtaining male urethral smears and immunostaining them for hpv antigen is simple , rapid , specific , and far more sensitive than conventional morphologic observations . since antigen-positive cells are the source for spreading hpv infection , identifying individuals with such cells can help limit the spread of infection by alerting sexual partners , and also can be used to monitor the infectious status of the patient after therapy . dna subtyping of hpv-positive patients may be useful in predicting the potential for malignant transformation which varies among the different hpv subtypes . 
the increased frequency of cervical dysplasia-neoplasia in women infected with the human immunodeficiency virus is related to the degree of immunosuppression . cytologic and histologic investigations of the uterine cervix and studies of the lymphocyte functions were performed in human immunodeficiency virus-infected and human immunodeficiency virus antibody-negative women to study possible linkages between human papillomavirus-induced dysplasia and degree of human immunodeficiency virus-induced immunosuppression . cytologic smears of the uterine cervix of 111 human immunodeficiency virus-infected women were compared with findings in 76 female intravenous drug users negative for human immunodeficiency virus antibodies and in a group of 526 women of the outpatient population of the hospital . cervical dysplasia-neoplasia ( including five cases of invasive carcinoma ) was seen in 41 % of the human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients . in human immunodeficiency virus-negative intravenous drug users dysplasia-neoplasia was seen in 9 % , and in the sample from outpatients in 4 % , including two cases of invasive carcinoma ( p less than 0.01 ) . cytologic features that were attributable to infection with human papillomavirus were observed in human immunodeficiency virus-infected women four times more often than in the sample from the outpatient population ( p less than 0.01 ) . frequency and severity of dysplasia appear to increase with diminishing numbers of cd4 + helper/inducer t lymphocytes and correlated significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) with a loss of blastogenic response to phytohemagglutinin , pokeweed mitogen , and tetanus toxoid . these results suggest an increased risk for the development of dysplasia of the uterine cervix in women with human immunodeficiency virus infection , which is related to the degree of immunosuppression . 
detection of coxsackievirus b3 rna in myocardial tissues by the polymerase chain reaction . coxsackievirus b3 is a possible etiologic agent in some forms of myocarditis and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy . a method for the detection of coxsackievirus b3 rna was developed using the polymerase chain reaction based on the amplification of a cdna copy of the positive-strand viral rna . the fidelity of the method was established in two murine models for coxsackie b3 myocarditis . all cardiac specimens with adequate rna for study from coxsackie b3-infected mice contained detectable viral rna , in contrast to none of control specimens from noninfected mice . the sensitivity of the technique was established at approximately 1 to 100 plaque-forming units of virus per gram of tissue , and the specificity was established as limited to the coxsackievirus b3 serotype among nine viruses tested . in patients with myocarditis , one of five specimens contained detectable viral rna , whereas none of 11 specimens from patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy or 21 myocardial specimens from patients with a wide variety of other cardiac disorders contained detectable coxsackie b3 viral rna . the results show that the polymerase chain reaction is a useful means for detecting coxsackie viral rna and its application should help in the evaluation of hypotheses concerning the infectious etiology of human myocarditis and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy . 
aids enteropathy : occult enteric infections and duodenal mucosal alterations in chronic diarrhea objective : to investigate occult enteric infections and morphologic changes in the small intestine in patients with advanced human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection and chronic diarrhea of undefined cause . design : case-control study . setting : referral-based clinic and hospital in tertiary care center . patients : twenty-two patients with advanced hiv infection ( 19 with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [ aids ] , 3 with aids-related complex ) with chronic diarrhea , selected because of previously negative stool evaluations for bacterial or parasitic pathogens , were compared with 13 patients with advanced hiv infection ( 9 with aids , 4 with aids-related complex ) without diarrhea by analysis of endoscopic biopsies using light and electron microscopy , viral culture , and morphometric studies . both groups were convenience samples and had at least 7 months follow-up . measurements and main results : eleven of twenty-two patients with hiv infection and chronic diarrhea but only 1 of 13 patients without diarrhea showed occult enteric pathogens ( that is , undetected by routine studies ) after extensive evaluation of duodenal and colorectal biopsies . mycobacterium avium-intracellulare and microsporidia were the most common occult agents in study patients with diarrhea ( 5 each ) . patients with diarrhea and occult enteric infections had greater weight loss ( mean , 14.3 kg compared with 6.2 kg ; p less than 0.05 ) and shorter survival ( 1 of 11 compared with 8 of 11 still alive ; p less than 0.004 ) than those with diarrhea but no identified pathogens ( defined as " aids enteropathy " ) . duodenal morphometry showed decreased villus-to-crypt ratios because of villus atrophy and crypt elongation in hiv-infected patients both with and without diarrhea compared with normal controls ( p less than 0.001 for each ) . all three groups showed comparable frequencies of epithelial mitoses . conclusions : further endoscopic biopsy evaluation of patients with aids who had unexplained chronic diarrhea showed an occult infectious cause in half of the cases . however , altered villus and crypt architecture in advanced hiv infection was independent of the presence of diarrhea or enteric infection and therefore did not correlate with aids enteropathy . subnormal epithelial proliferation in response to injury could be a factor , but the underlying cause of the architectural changes remains obscure . we suggest that t-cell dysfunction may play a role . 
influence of inhaled cadmium on the immune response to influenza virus . cadmium may exacerbate pulmonary infections . in a previous study , however , cadmium appeared to enhance mouse resistance to influenza pneumonia . we report herein on the influence of cadmium intoxication in mice on different factors of anti-influenza immunity , e.g. , antibody response , local production of interferon , pulmonary cellular response , and the interaction between pulmonary alveolar macrophages and the influenza virus . cadmium inhalation did not affect production of antibodies or interferon . the protective effect appeared to be related to an enhanced supply to phagocytic cells into the lung . 
aids incubation in 1891 hiv seroconverters from different exposure groups . international registry of seroconverters [ published erratum appears in aids 1991 feb ; 5 ( 2 ) :245 ] this study compares aids incubation in different geographic areas , calendar time of infection , exposure group and age at exposure . investigators from north america , europe and australia contributed data from 1891 people for whom dates of hiv seroconversion were known . we excluded subjects not enrolled in prospective studies at entry and those with more than 25 months between last negative and first positive sera ; we also censored subjects at the time last seen and excluded all follow-up after 1987 in order to minimize the impact of newly developed prophylactic therapies . the final analysis cohort contained 1171 subjects . using actuarial methods , no differences in incubation times were found among homosexual men infected in different continents or in different years ( prior to and after 1 january 1985 ) . among hemophilic people , children developed aids more slowly than adults ( p = 0.02 ) , and hemophilic adults developed aids more slowly than homosexual men ( p less than 0.05 ) , mainly because homosexual men had an added risk of kaposi 's sarcoma . progression time to aids was significantly faster in older hemophilic men , but not in older homosexual men . these data illustrate that aids incubation may differ in different exposure groups , probably because of different exposures to potential opportunistic pathogens . 
trends in survival of danish aids patients from 1981 to 1989 . length of survival was analysed in relation to year of diagnosis , aids-indicative disease , age , risk behaviour , zidovudine therapy , and cd4 cell count and serum immunoglobulin ( ig ) levels at the time of diagnosis in a group of 231 consecutive adult danish aids patients reported before 1 january 1988 . the cumulative survival rate was 53 % ( 95 % confidence interval 47-59 % ) at 1 year , 29 % ( 22-36 % ) at 2 years and 18 % ( 10-26 % ) at 3 years . length of survival increased significantly ( p less than 0.001 ) over time for patients who were initially diagnosed with pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) , 17 % ( 3-31 % ) at 2 years prior to 1986 , 32 % ( 16-49 % ) in 1986 and 52 % ( 34-69 % ) in 1987 , whereas survival remained stable for patients with other aids-indicative diseases . survival was similar for patients who were diagnosed with kaposi 's sarcoma alone and pcp alone . independent predictors of a shortened survival were a cd4 cell count less than 200 x 10 ( 6 ) / l , a serum iga level greater than 4 g/l , and an initial diagnosis with opportunistic infections other than pcp . in addition , the multivariate analysis suggested an improved survival in recent years for patients diagnosed with pcp , independent of other factors examined . we conclude that length of survival in aids patients is highly variable . determinants of progression include cd4 cell count , serum iga level , and presenting disease . survival has increased markedly for patients with pcp and median survival now exceeds 24 months . 
early and specific diagnosis of seropositivity to hivs by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using env-derived synthetic peptides . we describe and evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) using a 22-amino-acid peptide corresponding to the carboxy-terminal end of hiv-1 gp120 and two 30-amino-acid long cyclic peptides including the two vicinal cysteines present on hiv-1 gp41 and on hiv-2 gp36 . this test was evaluated . data obtained with the western blot ( wb ) and the peptide-based elisa on a first panel composed of sera from 547 patients attending a specialized outpatient clinic ( high-risk population ) are in perfect agreement ; moreover , 39 samples that had falsely been found positive with a viral lysate-based elisa were not detected by peptide-based elisa . the second panel was composed of 309 sera which were difficult to resolve using both wb and viral lysate-based elisa . using the peptide-based elisa , 134 were found clearly positive and 173 clearly negative ; only two were falsely positive . finally , sera from 16 individuals examined at the time of seroconversion gave high absorbancy readings even if they were weakly reactive by wb ( weak gp160 band ) . this test is thus highly sensitive and specific , and capable of detecting early seroconversion . it is also instrumental in clearly defining samples that are found indeterminate in the wb , and consequently it avoids the unnecessary follow-up required when a false-positive result is obtained using viral lysate-based elisa . 
t-cell subsets and serum immunoglobulin levels in infants born to hiv-seropositive mothers : a longitudinal evaluation . t-lymphocyte subsets and serum immunoglobulins were assayed in 27 neonates and 12 infants younger than 6 months , all born to hiv-seropositive mothers . no differences in t-lymphocyte subsets between the 27 seropositive and 34 seronegative infants were found at birth . twelve seroreverted and 14 infected children were followed . cd4 + cell counts were significantly lower in the latter at 3 and 24 months of age . serum immunoglobulin levels and cd8 + percentages became higher in the infected group , starting from the sixth month , while cd4 + percentages and cd4 + / cd8 + ratios became lower , starting from the twelfth month . 
low-dose dapsone prophylaxis of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in aids and aids-related complex . the efficacy , toxicity and cost of orally administered dapsone ( 50-100 mg/day ) for prophylaxis of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) were evaluated in 30 patients with aids or aids-related complex ( arc ) . six patients received primary and 24 secondary prophylaxis . ten patients received a maximum dose of 100 mg/day and 20 a maximum of 50 mg/day for a median duration of 19 weeks ; 22 of the 30 patients continue to receive prophylaxis as of may 1989 . four patients have died , none of pneumocystis infection . one patient with aids suffered a mild relapse while receiving 50 mg/day . hematologic toxicity was mild and could not be definitively attributed to dapsone therapy ; rash due to dapsone was documented in two patients . a review of 33 patients at our institution with a history of pcp who received no prophylaxis demonstrated seven relapses , three of which were fatal . cost analysis revealed a significant advantage for oral dapsone over aerosolized pentamidine . 
cowpox/catpox infection . a 19-year-old veterinary nurse developed a cowpox/catpox virus ( cpv ) infection of her right third finger following a scratch from a tom cat suffering from pneumonia . the clinical course and investigation of the infection are described and the differential diagnosis discussed . 
epidermodysplasia verruciformis-associated papillomavirus infection complicating human immunodeficiency virus disease . three males infected with the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) were noted to have extensive flat warts of the face and/or body . in two there were also pityriasis versicolor-like lesions . biopsies showed foamy , basophilic , distended cytoplasm in granular layer keratinocytes , characteristic of the human papillomavirus types seen in epidermodysplasia verruciformis . dna hybridization techniques demonstrated the presence of hpv-type 8 in one patient and hpv 5 and 8 in another . patients with immune suppression due to hiv infection may demonstrate the clinical features of epidermodysplasia verruciformis with the same potentially oncogenic hpv types . 
l-glutamine stimulates jejunal sodium and chloride absorption in pig rotavirus enteritis . rotavirus enteritis is the leading cause of diarrhea in infants worldwide . a research priority of the world health organization is to develop oral rehydration solutions containing amino acids or other additives that will stimulate intestinal absorption more efficiently than the current glucose-based oral rehydration solutions . glutamine is the principal metabolic fuel of the small bowel and a putative stimulator of mucosal repair . this report describes the transport response to mucosal l-glutamine following intestinal injury caused by porcine rotavirus . peak symptoms and mucosal damage were observed 2-7 days after oral rotavirus inoculation . in vitro transport studies of the maximally injured region , the midjejunum ( 80 % reduction in lactase ) , surprisingly , showed transport responses to l-glutamine ( 30 mmol/l ) and l-alanine ( 30 mmol/l ) that were similar qualitatively and quantitatively to those observed in control tissue . subsequent application of mucosal d-glucose ( 30 mmol/l ) caused additional stimulation of electrogenic na + transport , but the response to glucose was blunted ( p less than 0.05 ) in the infected tissues . glutamine and alanine enhanced na + absorption to a similar degree ( 2-2 .5 mueq.cm-2 . h-1 ) , but glutamine stimulated equal amounts of electrogenic and electroneutral nacl absorption , whereas alanine had no significant effect on net cl - flux . glutamine is a potentially useful substrate for investigation in oral rehydration solutions for infant diarrhea . 
six epitopes reacting with human cytotoxic cd8 + t cells in the central region of the hiv-1 nef protein . in order to identify the target epitopes recognized by specific ctl in the nef protein of hiv-1 , 33 peptides derived from the hiv-bru sequence were tested with nef-specific ctl generated from hiv-seropositive donors . six different epitopes were identified and several points were remarkable : 1 ) they were all located in two regions of the central part of the nef protein corresponding to residues 73 to 94 and 113 to 147 , respectively . 2 ) the ctl issued from a single donor could recognize several peptides of the nef protein . 3 ) some of these peptides could be recognized in association with at least two or three different hla class i molecules . 4 ) two different overlapping epitopes were present in a relatively short sequence of 15 amino acids . these results suggest that multiple epitopes corresponding to different hla restrictions could coexist in a relatively small region of the nef protein . the implications of these results in vaccine strategies using synthetic peptides bearing ctl epitopes are discussed . 
community-acquired influenza c virus infection in children . to clarify the epidemiologic and clinical features of community-acquired influenza c infection in children , we took specimens throughout the year from a larger number of patients with acute respiratory illnesses in a pediatric clinic in yamagata , japan . during a 2-year survey , 20 strains of influenza c virus were isolated from 13,426 specimens . these isolates were recovered throughout the year . the ages of patients with influenza c virus isolates ranged from 2 months to 11 years and peaked at the age of 1 year . the clinical diagnosis of patients with influenza c virus infection included bronchitis in one child and pneumonia in four . community-acquired influenza c infection in children can cause a variety of respiratory illnesses that can not be clinically differentiated from those caused by other viruses . 
search for herpes simplex virus 2 and human papillomavirus genetic expression in vulvar neoplasia . specimens from vulvar carcinomas and vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia ( vin ) of various degrees were analyzed for the presence of herpes simplex virus 2 ( hsv 2 ) and human papillomavirus ( hpv ) genetic information . a search for the hpv 16 e6 protein as well as the hsv 2 antigenic determinant la1 and icsp 11/12 protein was carried out with an immunoperoxidase assay on 12 vulvar carcinomas and 6 vins . seven invasive cancers and four vins were screened for the presence of homology to hpv 16 dna and hsv 2 dna transforming sequences with southern blot hybridization . we used specimens from labial tumors and from normal vulvas and cervixes as controls . the preliminary results showed that one vulvar carcinoma and two vins contained hpv 16 dna . four vulvar carcinomas expressed the e6 protein , while all the vins were negative . homology to hsv 2 dna transforming sequences was detected in one vulvar cancer but not in any vin cases . positivity to hsv 2 icsp 11/12 was observed in 33.3 % of vin cases and 75 % of invasive cancers . hsv 2 la1 antigenic determinant was expressed in 33.3 % of vin and 66.6 % of cancer cases . 
studies on the transmission of viral disease via the co2 laser plume and ejecta . while recent reports have noted the presence of viral dna sequences in the laser plume , no significant effort has been made to study transmission of the virus in vivo via airborne laser debris . studies were undertaken to identify potential hazards to operating room occupants in gynecologic laser surgery . aco2 laser in the continuous wave mode using a power density of 666 w/cm2 was fired through a 5-cm metal cylinder at virus-infected tissues . airborne particulate debris , 100-200 microns , was removed from the cylinder 's inner surfaces . in one instance , deposition of the debris was found on the surgeon 's eyeglasses 1 m from the site of impact despite the use of a smoke evacuator . the first set of studies involved confirmed human papillomavirus ( hpv ) lesions of the human female lower genital tract . specimens were collected for electron microscopy and southern blot viral hybridization . additional cervical electron microscopy specimens were recovered from the speculum during pulsed co2 laser treatment at 13 w average power during conization . electron microscopy of the vulvar debris revealed only anucleate keratinized squamous epithelial cells . cervical specimens demonstrated similar cells with nearly instantaneous vaporization of intracellular water and apparent condensation of cellular carbon . hpv southern blot testing revealed insufficient quantities of dna for that technique . the second set of studies involved bovine papillomavirus lesions from dairy cattle . the debris was transmitted to susceptible animals . the bovine studies failed to demonstrate the transmission of disease in vivo . 
human papillomavirus in women with vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia iii . untreated cases of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia ( vin ) iii may progress to invasive vulvar carcinoma . tissues from 29 new zealand women with vin iii were examined for the presence of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) types 6 , 11 , 16 and 18 by in situ hybridization and polymerase chain reaction . hpv 16 , the only hpv type detected in the lesions , was identified in about half the cases . hpv-positive women were younger than hpv-negative women , and their lesions displayed koilocytosis more often . in four of five cases in which there was a progression to invasive cancer , hpv 16 was detected in both the vin iii and invasive cancer tissue . 
interferon for vulvar vestibulitis . eight women with human papillomavirus-associated vestibular adenitis were treated with locally administered alpha interferon , 1 million units , three times weekly for four consecutive weeks . five patients had a complete remission , and one had a slight , transient improvement , with a relapse after the therapy ceased . 
a measles outbreak at a college with a prematriculation immunization requirement . background . in early 1988 an outbreak of 84 measles cases occurred at a college in colorado in which over 98 percent of students had documentation of adequate measles immunity ( physician diagnosed measles , receipt of live measles vaccine on or after the first birthday , or serologic evidence of immunity ) due to an immunization requirement in effect since 1986 . methods . to examine potential risk factors for measles vaccine failure , we conducted a retrospective cohort study among students living in campus dormitories using student health service vaccination records . results . overall , 70 ( 83 percent ) cases had been vaccinated at greater than or equal to 12 months of age . students living in campus dormitories were at increased risk for measles compared to students living off-campus ( rr = 3.0 , 95 % ci = 2.0 , 4.7 ) . students vaccinated at 12-14 months of age were at increased risk compared to those vaccinated at greater than or equal to 15 months ( rr = 3.1 , 95 % ci = 1.7 , 5.7 ) . time since vaccination was not a risk factor for vaccine failure . measles vaccine effectiveness was calculated to be 94 % ( 95 % ci = 86 , 98 ) for vaccination at greater than or equal to 15 months . conclusions . as in secondary schools , measles outbreaks can occur among highly vaccinated college populations . implementation of recent recommendations to require two doses of measles vaccine for college entrants should help reduce measles outbreaks in college populations . 
safety and prophylactic efficacy of low-dose rimantadine in adults during an influenza a epidemic . a placebo-controlled , double-blind study to evaluate the safety and prophylactic efficacy of a low dose ( 100 mg ) of rimantadine hydrochloride against naturally occurring influenza in adults was conducted at two sites . after the onset of the influenza season , volunteers ( ages , 18 to 55 years ) were assigned randomly to receive rimantadine or placebo daily . subjects were monitored for adverse effects and evidence of influenza virus infection weekly for six weeks . only 10 ( 8.7 % ) of 114 rimantadine recipients and 5 ( 4.4 % ) of 114 placebo control recipients reported one or more mild to moderate adverse symptoms , most of which were related to the gastrointestinal or central nervous system . compared with placebo , low-dose rimantadine was highly effective in the prevention of influenza a virus infection ( 20 of 110 versus 7 of 112 participants ; p less than 0.01 ) and influenza illness ( 7 of 110 versus 1 of 112 participants ; p = 0.04 ) . influenza a/leningrad/87-like ( h3n2 ) virus was recovered from the nasopharynxes of only five placebo recipients . these findings indicate that low-dose rimantadine is well tolerated and highly effective for the prevention of influenza a illness in healthy adults . 
alpha interferon ( 2b ) in combination with zidovudine for the treatment of presymptomatic feline leukemia virus-induced immunodeficiency syndrome . the therapeutic efficacies of human recombinant alpha interferon ( ifn-alpha ) , ifn-alpha plus zidovudine ( azt ) , and azt alone were evaluated in presymptomatic cats with established feline leukemia virus ( felv ) - acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( faids ) infection and high levels of persistent antigenemia . subcutaneous injection of 1.6 x 10 ( 6 ) u of human recombinant ifn-alpha 2b per kg delivered peak concentrations in plasma of 3,600 u/ml at 2 h postadministration with a half-life of elimination of 2.9 h. this dosage of ifn-alpha could be delivered to cats for up to 12 weeks without significant clinical toxicity . oral administration of azt ( 20 mg/kg three times daily ) resulted in peak concentrations in plasma of 3 micrograms/ml at 2 h with a half-life of elimination of approximately 1.60 h. treatment of felv-faids-infected cats with ifn-alpha , either alone or in combination with orally administered azt , resulted in significant decreases in circulating p27 core antigen beginning 2 weeks after the initiation of therapy . azt alone had no effect on circulating virus antigen . depending upon whether high ( 1.6 x 10 ( 6 ) u/kg ) - or low ( 1.6 x 10 ( 4 ) to 1.6 x 10 ( 5 ) u/kg ) - dosage ifn-alpha was used , cats became refractory to therapy 3 or 7 weeks after the beginning of treatment . at these times , ifn-alpha-treated animals developed antibodies to ifn-alpha that were neutralizing , specific for human recombinant ifn-alpha , and dose dependent in magnitude . the results of this study indicate that human recombinant ifn-alpha is effective in reducing circulating virus antigenic load in cats persistently infected with felv-faids . 
recurrent wheezy bronchitis and viral respiratory infections fifty four patients aged from 1 to 6 years who had had recurrent attacks of wheezy bronchitis were prospectively followed up for three months to find out if there was an association between different viral respiratory infections and episodes of wheezing . of the 115 episodes of upper or lower respiratory tract symptoms , virus or mycoplasma pneumoniae infection were diagnosed in 52 ( 45 % ) . thirty four of rhinoviruses . the patients had an average of 2.1 episodes of respiratory tract symptoms the total mean ( sd ) duration of which was 30 ( 2 ) days of the 92 days that followed . wheezing occurred during 76 ( 66 % ) of the 115 episodes and during a third of these the patient was admitted to hospital because of severe dyspnoea . wheezing started a mean ( sd ) of 43 ( 7 ) hours after the first symptoms of respiratory infection and persisted for 3.8 ( 4.2 ) days in patients in whom virus infection was diagnosed . the incidence of wheezing was not associated with ige mediated atopy , with positive virological tests , or with fever during virus infection , but was associated with parental smoking and more than one sibling . 
herpes simplex keratitis in renal transplant patients . five out of 430 patients ( 1.16 % ) undergoing kidney transplantation developed an atypical clinical picture of herpetic dendritic keratitis within four weeks after surgery . it was manifested by multiple dendrites , located mainly in the corneal periphery or the limbus , developing in relatively uninflamed eyes . the response to acyclovir therapy was prolonged and took at least three weeks . additionally , subepithelial infiltrates with ultimate scarring developed in all patients . disciform keratopathy was not found . this clinical course is ascribed to the patients ' immunosuppressed state . 
preparation and characterization of an intravenous solution of igg from human immunodeficiency virus-seropositive donors . an intravenous solution of 99 % pure globulin ( hyperimmune igg , hivig ) was obtained from pooled plasma of selected human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv-1 ) - seropositive asymptomatic donors with greater than 400 cd4 + / microliters cells per microliter and a high titer of antibody to hiv-1 p24 protein . hivig had high titers of antibody to p24 , glycoprotein 41 ( gp41 ) , and gp120 , group-specific neutralizing activity , and binding to the gp120 hypervariable loop region . it inhibited syncytia formation . at low concentration , it enhanced viral production of hiv-1 in infected peripheral blood monocytes but was inhibitory at higher concentration . hivig directed group-specific antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity against hiv-infected targets . for a period of 6 to 28 months , plasma donors kept stable antibody titers and had a 1.0 % decrease in cd4 + cells per month . one gram per kilogram hivig injected in two juvenile chimpanzees was well tolerated and did not transmit hiv , as measured by negative cell culture , igm immune response to hiv proteins , and polymerase chain reaction . the mean half-life of hiv-1 p24 antibody was 15 days . these preliminary data suggest that hivig is a safe product suitable for clinical trial in hiv-1-infected individuals . 
antibody to coxsackie b virus in diagnosing postviral fatigue syndrome objective -- to study the association between coxsackie b virus infection and the postviral fatigue syndrome and to assess the immunological abnormalities associated with the syndrome . design -- case-control study of patients with the postviral fatigue syndrome referred by local general practitioners over one year . setting -- general practitioner referrals in dunbartonshire , scotland . patients -- 254 patients referred with the postviral fatigue syndrome ( exhaustion , myalgia , and other symptoms referable to postviral fatigue syndrome of fairly recent onset -- that is , several months ) and age and sex matched controls obtained from same general practitioner ; 11 patients were rejected because of wrong diagnoses , resolution of symptoms , and refusal to participate , leaving 243 patients and matched controls . main outcome measures -- detailed questionnaire ( patients and controls ) and clinical examination ( patients ) and blind analysis of blood sample at entry and after six months for determination of coxsackie b virus igm and igg antibodies and other variables ( including lymphocyte protein synthesis , lymphocyte subsets , and immune complexes ) . results -- percentage positive rates for coxsackie b virus igm at entry were 24.4 % for patients and 22.6 % for controls and for coxsackie b virus igg 56.2 % and 55.3 % respectively ; there were no significant differences between different categories of patients according to clinical likelihood of the syndrome nor any predictive value in a fourfold rise or fall in the coxsackie b virus igg titre in patients between entry and review at six months . the rates of positive antibody test results in patients and controls showed a strong seasonal variation . of the numerous immunological tests performed , only a few detected significant abnormalities ; in particular the mean value for immune complex concentration was much higher in 35 patients and 35 controls compared with the normal range and mean value for total igm was also raised in 227 patients and 35 controls compared with the normal range . conclusions -- serological tests available for detecting coxsackie b virus antibodies do not help diagnose the postviral fatigue syndrome . percentage positive rates of the antibodies in patients simply reflect the background in the population as probably do the raised concentrations of total igm and immune complexes . 
treatment of end-stage chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with double lung transplantation . six patients with end-stage emphysema ( age 44 + / - 2 years ) underwent double lung transplantation ( tx ) from june 1988 through may 1990 . all suffered from severe inanition and required oxygen therapy . the ischemic time was 193 + / - 28 minutes . post-tx immune suppression was okt3 ( 14 days ) , cyclosporine ( trough levels of 150 + / - 25 ng/ml ) , azathioprine to keep wbc at 3,000 to 5,000 / cu mm ( 1 to 3.0 mg/kg/day ) and following okt3 , a tapering prednisone regimen . two rejection episodes that occurred in two patients on post-tx day 5 and 10 were treated with bolus doses of methylprednisolone . the mean hospital stay was 32 + / - 7 days ( range , 20 to 69 days ) . four patients required treatment of cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infection : gastritis ( + donor , + recipient ) in one and cmv pneumonia in two ( + donor , - recipient ) . a fourth ( + donor , - recipient ) had right-sided candida empyema six weeks post-tx , developed cmv and staphylococcal sepsis , and died 64 days post-tx . one patient required pyloroplasty eight weeks post-tx and one patient underwent tracheal suture line repair at eight weeks . during a follow-up of 81 patients months ( range , 8 to 24 months ) , one patient had developed epstein-barr viral ( ebv ) induced lymphoproliferative disease in the lung and one patient had developed ebv lymphoma . three patients are at work , one is continuing rehabilitation , and one is at home . double lung tx offers a definitive benefit to patients with emphysema ; however , a prolonged postoperative course can be expected . viral infections remain serious but treatable problems . 
use of indium 111-labeled white blood cell scan in the diagnosis of cytomegalovirus pneumonia in a renal transplant recipient with a normal chest roentgenogram . opportunistic infections are common in patients after renal transplantation . this report describes a case of cytomegalovirus pneumonia in a renal transplant recipient with a normal chest roentgenogram and normal arterial oxygenation . an abnormal 111in-white blood cell scan led to the discovery of a pulmonary source of his recurrent fevers . 
esophageal candidiasis in aids . successful therapy with clotrimazole vaginal tablets taken by mouth . in this paper we describe the results of oral therapy of esophageal candidiasis with clotrimazole vaginal tablets in 25 homosexual men with aids , of whom 19 had oral candidiasis and 16 had esophageal symptoms . therapy with clotrimazole vaginal tablets , 100 mg , taken by mouth cleared the esophageal symptoms , oral candidiasis , and esophageal lesions completely in all 25 men . clotrimazole vaginal tablets are a useful alternative to other antifungal agents for the treatment of esophageal candidiasis in aids patients . 
incidence of hairy cell leukemia , mycosis fungoides , and chronic lymphocytic leukemia in first known htlv-ii-endemic population . unlike human t cell leukemia-lymphoma virus type i ( htlv-i ) , htlv-ii has not been convincingly linked to a malignancy . in the first 10 months of serologic screening for htlv-i/ii among blood donors in new mexico in 1988-1989 , htlv-i/ii infection was found in 27 donors . htlv-i/ii infection was present in 1.0 % -1.6 % of american indian and 0.16 % -0.27 % of hispanic donors compared with 0.009 % -0.06 % of non-hispanic white donors . htlv-ii was identified by dna amplification in 12 of 13 samples from indian and hispanic seropositive donors . despite apparent endemic htlv-ii infection in these populations , new mexico tumor registry data showed that the incidences of hairy cell leukemia , mycosis fungoides , and chronic lymphocytic leukemia were comparable among the three ethnic groups . a population with endemic htlv-ii infection has been identified , and there is no evidence of increased risk for these three malignancies in the endemic groups . 
cytomegalovirus infection in sexually active adolescents . to determine whether cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infection in teenage girls is related to sexual activity , 254 girls 12-18 years old ( mean , 15.8 ) attending a contraceptive counseling clinic were studied . participants were screened for chlamydia trachomatis , neisseria gonorrhoeae , and trichomonas vaginalis , and serum antibody to cmv was determined . demographic and sexual history data were collected by interview . the mean number of lifetime sex partners was 2.2 ; 173 ( 68 % ) were seropositive . race , greater than 3 years of sexual activity , and greater than 2 lifetime sex partners were significant risk factors for cmv infection ( odds ratios [ or ] , 1.8-4 .7 ; p less than .05 ) . using logistic regression analysis , a composite sexual activity variable was the most important risk factor for cmv infection ( or , 4.8 ; p = .003 ) , followed by race ( or , 3.4 ; p = .004 ) and a sexually transmitted disease composite variable ( or , 2.4 ; p = .016 ) . sexual activity is an important risk factor for cmv infection in adolescent girls . 
pattern of respiratory syncytial virus epidemics in finland : two-year cycles with alternating prevalence of groups a and b. time-resolved fluoroimmunoassay with monoclonal antibodies distinguishing between respiratory syncytial virus ( rsv ) group a and b strains was used to analyze their prevalence in finland during 1981-1990 among 3285 patients with laboratory diagnosis of rsv , most of them hospitalized . the group typing of antigens in 608 rsv-positive nasopharyngeal aspirates showed a regular alternation of group prevalence , following the cyclic occurrence of the virus . group a predominated in 73 % -90 % of specimens from 1981-1982 , 1985-1986 , and 1989-1990 , whereas group b predominated in 70 % -100 % of specimens from 1983-1984 and 1987-1988 . the epidemiologic occurrence of verified reinfections in hospitalized children and the group typing results indicated that children greater than 6 months of age during the first infection were more resistant to severe reinfection with the homologous than with the heterologous group of virus . the study shows that group antigenic variation of rsv has a significant effect on the epidemiology of the virus . 
vaccination of cotton rats with a chimeric fg glycoprotein of human respiratory syncytial virus induces minimal pulmonary pathology on challenge . the cotton rat model of human respiratory syncytial virus ( rsv ) infection was used to study the safety and efficacy of a chimeric fg glycoprotein that was expressed in insect cells using a baculovirus vector . histologic and virologic examination of vaccinated rat lungs was done after challenge with rsv . when rats were challenged 1 month after vaccination , severe pulmonary inflammation characterized by both a mononuclear and polymorphonuclear cell infiltrate and 30 % -40 % involvement of lung tissue was observed with a formalin-inactivated rsv vaccine . the fg glycoprotein induced minimal lung inflammation ( involving 2 % -5 % of the lung ) , while negative controls had 1 % -3 % lung involvement . two doses with as little as 20 ng of fg glycoprotein formulated in an aluminum hydroxide adjuvant completely protected the cotton rats from rsv challenge . thus the chimeric fg glycoprotein is highly immunogenic and induces minimal pulmonary inflammation in the cotton rat model . 
a field study of the safety and efficacy of two candidate rotavirus vaccines in a native american population . a double-blind , randomized , placebo-controlled trial was conducted to evaluate the safety and efficacy of a rhesus rotavirus vaccine and rit 4237 , a bovine rotavirus vaccine , in a navajo population . infants aged 2-5 months were randomized to receive one dose of either 10 ( 4 ) pfu of the rhesus rotavirus vaccine or 10 ( 8 ) pfu of the rit 4237 vaccine or placebo . eleven ( 10.2 % ) of 108 infants in the rhesus vaccine group , 11 ( 10.4 % ) of 106 in the rit 4237 group , and 9 ( 8.4 % ) of 107 in the placebo group experienced rotavirus diarrhea during the follow-up period of 17 months . thus , in this population , neither vaccine was efficacious in preventing rotavirus diarrhea . 
measles-associated diarrhea in hospitalized children in lima , peru : pathogenic agents and impact on growth . because the causes of measles-associated diarrhea are not well known , 0 - to 5-year-old children presenting to the hospital with measles-associated diarrhea ( cases , n = 77 ) or acute diarrhea only ( controls , n = 77 ) were compared . growth and diarrheal morbidity were evaluated for 1 month after acute illness . campylobacter jejuni was more frequently isolated from cases ( 31 % ) than controls ( 16 % ; p = .03 ) . rotavirus was absent in all cases versus 28 % of controls ( p less than .001 ) . incidence density for new episodes of diarrhea was significantly greater in cases ( 6.5 vs. 4.1 ; odds ratio , 1.6 ; confidence intervals , 1.09-2 .34 ; p = .01 ) , as was duration of episodes ( 3 vs. 2 days , p = .02 ) . both groups showed similar positive cumulative percentage weight gains throughout follow-up . these data support the theory of measles as a risk factor for developing diarrhea . the bacteriologic and virologic findings may reflect the immunologic response of the host to measles infection . 
granulocyte colony-stimulating factor enhances the phagocytic and bactericidal activity of normal and defective human neutrophils . granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( g-csf ) stimulates proliferation of myeloid cells and may be a valuable adjunct in prevention and treatment of neutropenia-associated infections . neutrophil ( pmnl ) phagocytic and microbicidal functions against staphylococcus aureus and candida albicans blastoconidia were therefore evaluated . bacterial phagocytosis and bactericidal activity were significantly enhanced by approximately 50 % -70 % after preincubation of normal pmnl with g-csf in concentrations of 1000-4000 units/ml for 10 min at 37 degrees c. g-csf in similar concentrations enhanced the defective bactericidal activity of pmnl from hiv-1-infected patients by approximately 70 % -150 % and reached the baseline control pmnl killing . however , g-csf enhanced neither phagocytosis nor fungicidal activity of normal pmnl against c. albicans blastoconidia . these data demonstrate that g-csf enhances the antibacterial but not the antifungal activities of human pmnl in vitro and also improves the defective pmnl bactericidal activity of hiv-1-infected patients . 
recombinant murine granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor augments neutrophil recovery and enhances resistance to infections in myelosuppressed mice . the ability of recombinant murine granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( rmgm-csf ) to protect myelosuppressed mice against lethal infections was evaluated . in mice myelosuppressed by cyclophosphamide , subcutaneously administered rmgm-csf was a potent stimulus of granulopoiesis by increasing the number of gm-csf-responsive precursor cells in bone marrow followed by a profound neutrophilia . neutrophil recovery was augmented by rmgm-csf in a dose-dependent manner at daily doses of 0.6-5 .0 micrograms/mouse . in addition , rmgm-csf increased the functional activity of circulating neutrophils at similar doses . when rmgm-csf was administered to neutropenic mice before experimentally induced pseudomonas aeruginosa , staphylococcus aureus , or candida albicans infections , it protected against these lethal infections , resulting in increased numbers of survivors . these data suggest that rmgm-csf protects neutropenic mice from lethal infections , probably by augmenting neutrophil recovery after myelosuppression and activation of mature cells . 
changes in plasma high density lipoprotein cholesterol and phospholipid in acute viral hepatitis and cholestatic jaundice . forty-four male and female subjects aged 22-57 years were studied . thirteen patients had acute viral hepatitis , and eleven patients had cholestatic jaundice due to carcinoma of the head of the pancreas . twenty healthy volunteers who served as controls were also included . in hepatitis patients , the mean plasma levels of total cholesterol ( tc ) and the high density lipoprotein ( hdl ) - phospholipid/phospholipid ( hdlpl/pl ) ratio were reduced , and hdl-cholesterol ( hdlc ) , hdl-phospholipid ( hdlpl ) and the phospholipid/total cholesterol ( pl/tc ) ratio were normal , while total phospholipid ( pl ) levels and the hdlc/tc ratio were significantly increased compared to the control values . in patients with cholestatic jaundice the mean plasma total cholesterol , phospholipid and hdlc levels were elevated , and hdlpl/pl , hdlpl , hdlc/tc and pl/tc remained normal compared to the control values . a comparison within the patient groups showed that plasma tc , pl and hdlc levels were significantly increased in cholestatic jaundice when compared with the corresponding levels in hepatitis patients . the mean plasma levels of hdlpl , hdlc/tc and pl/tc did not show any significant variation within the patient groups . alkaline phosphatase ( alp ) correlated positively with tc , and total protein correlated negatively with tc and hdlpl , while albumin correlated negatively with tc , hdlc and hdlpl in cholestatic jaundice . alanine amino-transferase ( alat ) also correlated positively with pl in cholestatic jaundice , while albumin correlated positively with tc in hepatitis . the results suggest that lipoproteins might be metabolized differently in these two forms of cholestasis . 
a spreadsheet for aids : estimating heterosexual injection drug user population size from aids statistics in san francisco . a single-page computer spreadsheet can be used to back-calculate the size of the population at risk from the reported number of aids cases and hiv seropositivity levels for that population . however , cohen ( 1988:35 ) has cautioned that " this method requires some heroic assumptions , and is , therefore , fraught with difficulty . " slight variations in the definition of aids , in the progression rate , and in reported seropositivity rates used as data in the spreadsheet can make enormous differences in the results obtained through back-calculation . despite the limitations of the method , an estimate of the possible size of the idu population can be derived from back-calculation , with careful consideration of ethnographic realities taken into account . in san francisco , the present authors believe that there were approximately 13,000 heterosexual idus as of the end of 1989 . further demographic divisions by ethnicity , age , sex , and even neighborhood could be made using the same techniques , if aids cases and seropositivity levels could be obtained for each variable . table ii predicts a cumulative 705 aids diagnoses among san francisco heterosexual idus by the end of 1993 , or nearly six times as many as reported through 1988 . this prediction is based on an assumption of 2.5 % seroconversion per year ( 1989-1993 ) and on modest progression-rate increments of 5 % , 5 % , 4 % , 3 % , and 3 % in the eleventh through fifteenth years after hiv infection . thus , it shows the magnitude of the epidemic that san francisco will shortly face and emphasizes the need to act vigorously to prevent further hiv contagion among idus as well as from them to their heterosexual partners ( drug using or not ) . 
prevalence of antibody to hiv-1 among entrants to us correctional facilities prevalence of antibody to the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) was assessed among 10,994 consecutive male and female entrants to 10 correctional systems in the united states . the hiv-1 seroprevalence for the 10 systems ranged from 2.1 % to 7.6 % for men and 2.5 % to 14.7 % for women ; seroprevalence among women was higher than among men across nine of 10 systems . using age 25 years to divide the population , hiv-1 prevalence among young women ( 5.2 % ) was significantly higher than among young men ( 2.3 % ) , but similar to that in both older women ( 5.3 % ) and older men ( 5.6 % ) . overall , hiv-1 rates for nonwhites ( 4.8 % ) were higher than those for whites ( 2.5 % ) . although categories were identified across correctional systems , which may serve to focus prevention programs , variability in rates among correctional systems indicates that program planning must take local conditions into consideration . 
recurrent peritonitis : evidence for possible viral etiology . a 45-year-old woman who was treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) developed recurrent peritonitis characterized by cloudy effluents , elevated white blood cell ( wbc ) counts ( predominantly lymphocytes ) , and negative culture results . this case report suggests that she may have had viral peritonitis as indicated by a positive viral culture , the presence of viral antibodies in serum and peritoneal dialysis effluent ( pde ) , hematological findings , and cell surface receptor studies . the possibility of a viral cause should be considered in patients with culture-negative peritonitis , especially if they do not respond to antibiotics . 
immune function and anti-htlv-i/ii status in anti-hiv-1-negative intravenous drug users receiving methadone . purpose : the study objective was to evaluate the effects of long-term methadone use and human t-cell leukemia virus ( htlv ) types i and ii seropositivity on the distribution of lymphocyte subsets and on lymphocyte function as measured in vitro in intravenous drug users seronegative for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) . patients and methods : anti-hiv-1-negative intravenous drug users receiving methadone maintenance therapy ( n = 24 ) were studied in a veterans administration drug abuse treatment center . these subjects were compared to 38 age - and sex-matched control subjects who did not abuse drugs . hiv-1 and htlv serostatus was determined by repetitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and confirmed by immunoblot . lymphocyte subsets were determined by two-color flow cytometry . lymphocyte function was measured by proliferative response to plant mitogens and by natural killer ( nk ) cell-mediated cytotoxicity to a tumor cell target . results : significant differences were seen in lymphocyte phenotype in the methadone-treated group , with elevations in the t-cell helper subset cd4 + cd26 + ; in cd8 and cd8 + i2 + cells , suppressor/cytotoxic t lymphocytes , and activated suppressor/cytotoxic t cells ; and in cd2 + cd26 + cells and activated total t lymphocytes . lymphocyte function was suppressed in the methadone group , with poor responses to pokeweed mitogen and phytohemagglutinin in culture . moreover , nk-cell cytotoxicity was significantly reduced in the methadone group . none of these immunologic differences were attributable to htlv serostatus . conclusion : the immune abnormalities seen suggest that a clinically significant degree of immune impairment exists in methadone-treated intravenous drug users . however , these abnormalities could not be explained by the presence of other retroviruses in this hiv-1-negative study group , as there was no significant difference in immune function when htlv-seropositive patients were compared to htlv-seronegative subjects treated with methadone . 
the effect of chloroquine prophylaxis on yellow fever vaccine antibody response : comparison of plaque reduction neutralization test and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay . weekly oral chloroquine prophylaxis for malaria has been associated with impaired antibody response to intradermal rabies vaccination . experimental data indicate that chloroquine may inhibit yellow fever virus in vitro , yet there has been no clinical evidence to suggest that antibody response to yellow fever vaccine is impaired by concomitant oral administration of chloroquine . a prospective trial was undertaken to evaluate the antibody response to yellow fever 17d vaccine ( connaught laboratories ) of volunteers who were randomized to taking either chloroquine or no drug . of fifty subjects , 28 were randomized to taking chloroquine , 22 were randomized to taking no drug . yellow fever 17d vaccine was administered on day 0 and blood sampled on days 0 , 14 , 35 and 210 . chloroquine was administered weekly for four weeks . there was no significant difference in peak antibody titer by plaque reduction neutralization testing ( prnt ) between the group that took chloroquine ( mean log peak of reciprocal titer 1.43 + / - sd 0.60 ) with vaccine subcutaneously compared to vaccine-only group ( mean log peak of reciprocal titer = 1.21 + / - 0.55 ) . all fifty subjects seroconverted to yellow fever vaccine by day 210 . elisa testing was also performed on all subjects . the two tests showed good correlation ( spearman r = 0.675 ) , although elisa readings were positive by day 14 in significantly more subjects ( p = .01 ) . we conclude that routine anti-malarial doses of chloroquine do not affect antibody response to yellow fever 17d vaccine . elisa testing , a less complex and less time-consuming test , correlates well with prnt and is proposed for additional trials to measure yellow fever 17d vaccine response in flavivirus non-immune subjects . 
the role of a critical care unit in an epidemic . the role of a critical care unit in life-threatening situations is well established . the management of 52 children with acute gastroenteritis and 22 children with acute paralytic poliomyelitis as part of recent epidemics is described . the solutions to the problems in the critical care management of these 74 victims ( out of a total of 6197 patients admitted during the epidemics ) are discussed . 
hiv prevalence in a midwestern emergency department . study objective : to determine the prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) seropositivity of patients 15 years of age and older in our emergency department . design : hiv status was determined anonymously , and the seroprevalence rate was calculated . the 95 % confidence intervals also were calculated . twenty demographic and predictor categorical variable were cross-tabulated with hiv status to determine associations . only gender and male homosexual preference were significantly associated by fisher 's exact test . type of participants : excess serum samples from 454 randomly selected patients 15 years of age and older who required venipuncture for their ed evaluation were included in the study . measurements and main results : of the 454 serum specimens , six ( 1.32 % ) were positive for hiv . the 95 % confidence interval was from 0.27 % to 2.37 % . all six positive patients were men . the only statistically significant risk factors associated with hiv seropositivity were male sex ( p = .00112 ) and male homosexual preference ( p = .0000 ) . conclusion : hiv seropositivity occurs in 1.32 % of our ed population over the age of 15 years . the only factors that correlate with hiv seropositivity are male homosexual preference and male sex . 
elevated alpha-tumor necrosis factor levels in spinal fluid from hiv-1-infected patients with central nervous system involvement . to assess the role of alpha-tumor necrosis factor in the pathogenesis of central nervous system involvement during human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection , we recorded clinical data and measured alpha-tumor necrosis factor levels in serum and cerebrospinal fluid samples from 45 patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 , classified as group ii/iii ( 10 ) , group iv a ( 5 ) , group iv b ( 10 ) , and group iv c-1 ( 20 ) of the centers for disease control acquired immunodeficiency syndrome classification system and 42 controls . alpha-tumor necrosis factor was above the limit of detection in only 3 of 15 sera and 3 of 15 cerebrospinal fluid samples from patients in group ii/iii and group iv a , whereas it was detected in 17 of 30 sera ( p less than 0.05 ) and 22 of 30 cerebrospinal fluid ( p less than 0.0002 ) samples from clinically more advanced patients ( group iv b and group iv c-1 ) . alpha-tumor necrosis factor mean values were 21.5 pg/ml in sera and 50.0 pg/ml in cerebrospinal fluid from group iv b patients and 30.4 pg/ml in sera and 24 pg/ml in cerebrospinal fluid from group iv c-1 patients . 
apparent response of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis to intrathecal interferon alpha . an 8-year-old boy with subacute sclerosing panencephalitis ( sspe ) was treated with 1.0 to 3.0 x 10 ( 6 ) iu human interferon alpha ( ifn ) by the intrathecal route weekly or fortnightly . pronounced improvement of clinical and electroencephalographic findings were observed in a dose-dependent manner . our patient raises hope that ifn can induce sustained remission in patients with sspe . 
herpes simplex and human papillomavirus genital infections : controversy over obstetric management . plasma inhibitory factors , high levels of sex hormones , and depression of cell-mediated immunity may interfere with the natural host resistance to viral infections during pregnancy . it is apparent that hormonal , immunologic , and vascular changes in pregnancy may account for increased replication of herpes and for enhanced growth of condylomatous lesions . the challenge is to develop a rational plan of management for pregnant patients with herpes simplex or human papilloma virus infection . there has been a reevaluation of previous recommendations for the management of herpes in pregnancy . although the consequences of neonatal infection are severe or fatal , the value of routine weekly screening is questionable . this regimen is a poor predictor of neonatal exposure to herpes since only one fourth of women shedding virus at the time of delivery can be identified by routine cultures . the mode of delivery should therefore be based on the presence or absence of lesions at the time of confinement . cesarean section should be reserved for patients with lesions or with prodromal symptoms of recurrent disease at the time of delivery . patients with ruptured membranes and active genital lesions should also be delivered by cesarean section . the spectrum of hpv-related diseases in pregnancy is poorly understood . many questions remain unanswered . it may not be practical to treat very large or extensive genital warts during pregnancy . a cesarean section may be the best choice in these cases . it may be premature to recommend cesarean section for delivery of all pregnant women with symptomatic genital hpv infection . more data are needed . we recommend laser ablation of condylomatous lesions when discovered during pregnancy . laser vaporization is associated with minimal morbidity when used by experienced surgeons . trichloroacetic acid is excellent for minimal disease or for treatment of recurrences in pregnancy . since the immune system seems to play an important role in control of viral disease , we advise pregnant patients to adopt a lifestyle which promotes health . we advise a balanced diet , an appropriate exercise program , and an environment free of unnecessary stress . we suggest avoidance of cigarettes , drugs , and alcohol . 
serum non-organ specific autoantibodies in human immunodeficiency virus 1 infection . serum samples from 66 seropositive subjects ( 56 with a history of intravenous drug abuse ) , including asymptomatic carriers and patients with persistent generalised lymphadenopathy ( pgl ) , aids related complex ( arc ) , and aids , were tested by indirect immunofluorescence on rat tissue sections and hep-2 cells for the presence of antibodies to nuclei , smooth muscle , intermediate filaments ( anti-imf ) and microfilaments ( anti-mf ) . counterimmunoelectrophoresis was also used to detect antibodies to extractable nuclear antigens . smooth muscle antibodies with the v pattern or antinuclear antibodies , mainly of the speckled type , or anti-imf , occurred in 35 cases , being widely distributed in all groups . such an autoantibody response resembles the " viral " autoimmunity described in various infectious diseases and in particular that of non-a , non-b post-transfusion hepatitis . autoantibodies may be of some prognostic relevance , as the prevalence of smooth muscle antibodies v increased as the disease progressed ( asymptomatic carriers 20 % , those with pgl 29 % , those with arc 47 % , and those with aids 63 % . in the pgl group autoantibody positivity correlated with the presence of skin anergy . the fact that autoantibodies were more frequently detected in patients with circulating immune complexes suggests that these can contain autoantibodies and the corresponding autoantigens . 
hiv associated arthropathy : hiv antigen demonstration in the synovial membrane . light and electron microscopic studies were performed on the synovial membranes of 5 patients with hiv associated arthropathy . an immunoperoxidase technique with the use of monoclonal antibodies against cd4 , cd8 , b and dr lymphocytes , and hiv p24 antigen was also used . mild to moderate nonspecific proliferative changes and increased vascularity of the subsynovial space were seen . electron dense deposits and viral-like particles were not observed . immunohistochemical staining revealed hiv p24 positive staining in cells of the synovial lining layer and in the mononuclear cells of the subsynovial space . cd4 , cd8 , with predominance of cd8 , and b and dr cells were also present . the presence of hiv p24 antigen may be indicative of a role , yet to be defined , in the pathogenesis of hiv associated rheumatic disorders . 
fibromyalgia in human immunodeficiency virus infection . tenderness was assessed by point count and by scored palpation in 51 patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection as well as 51 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) and 50 patients with psoriatic arthritis ( psa ) . fifteen of 51 ( 29 % ) patients with hiv infection met criteria for fibromyalgia , based on the presence of 10 tender ( of 14 ) " fibrositic " points . similar results were observed among patients with psa ( 24 % ) . the prevalence of fibromyalgia was higher among patients with ra ( 57 % ) . patients with hiv and psa were less tender than patients with ra . fibromyalgia in patients with hiv was significantly associated with myalgia and arthralgia , but not with age , duration of hiv infection , stage of hiv disease , or zidovudine therapy . 
cerebrospinal fluid flow dynamics in children with external ventricular drains . fifty-five children had 64 external ventricular drains ( evds ) placed predominantly ( 95 % ) for cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) shunt infections . in 9 children , a computer monitoring system measured the csf output each second continuously for up to 24 hours . the monitoring was repeated daily for up to 9 days . the state of arousal of the patients was recorded simultaneously . in all children , daily evd outputs were related to age , sex , weight , method of establishing the evd , height of the drip chamber , time since insertion , and type of infecting organism . computer monitoring revealed wide fluctuations in flow rate , with peak rates frequently greater than 20 ml/h and periods of flow arrest . these changes were usually associated with increased arousal , but also occurred with sleep . the mean evd flow rate for all children was 6.3 ml/h . evd output increased with age and weight . evd output decreased with gram-negative or multiple-organism infections and with elevation of the drip chamber . resolution of the infection , sex of the patient , and method of establishing the evd had no effect on output . these results predict that csf production increases with brain growth in humans : that csf production is depressed by gram-negative and multiple-organism infections : that implanted csf shunts with standard valves flow at equivalent rates to an evd in the supine position ; and that the csf drainage requirements in this group are approximately equal to their evd outputs . 
radiographic manifestations of anomalies of the brain . congenital brain anomalies are classified as developmental anomalies , effects of teratogens , errors of histogenesis , or sequelae of infections . the imaging options for delineation of these anomalies are many ; a basic understanding of the disorder is central to the effective choice of imaging modality . this review begins with a brief overview of embryogenesis then reviews the common congenital brain anomalies encountered in infants . 
changing disease patterns in patients with aids in a referral centre in the united kingdom : the changing face of aids objective -- to study the changes in morbidity , mortality , and survival patterns in a population of patients with aids in the united kingdom from 1982 to 1989 . design -- a retrospective analysis of inpatient and outpatient records of patients with aids . subjects -- 347 patients with aids , predominantly homosexual or bisexual men . setting -- departments of immunology and genitourinary medicine , st mary 's hospital , london . main outcome measures -- presenting diagnosis of aids , occurrence of other opportunist diseases , cause of death , and survival since aids was diagnosed , in particular for those patients with pneumocystis carinii pneumonia or kaposi 's sarcoma . results -- the overall proportion of patients who developed p carinii pneumonia dropped from 56 % ( 20/36 ) in 1984 to 24 % ( 46/194 ) in 1989 , although it has remained the index diagnosis in about half of new patients . kaposi 's sarcoma has decreased as index diagnosis from 30 % ( 20/67 ) to 20 % ( 15/74 ) over the same period , though the prevalence has remained constant at around 35 % . p carinii pneumonia accounted for 46 % ( 16/35 ) of known causes of death in 1986 but only 3 % ( 1/31 ) in 1989 . conversely , deaths due to kaposi 's sarcoma rose from 14 % ( 1/7 ) to 32 % ( 10/31 ) between 1984 and 1989 . lymphoma accounted for an increased proportion of deaths among these patients with 16 % ( 5/31 ) of deaths in 1989 . their median survival increased from 10 months in 1984-6 to 20 months in 1987 . conclusions -- the changing patterns of disease in patients with aids have important implications both for health care provision and future medical research . medical and nursing provision must be made for the increased morbidity of these diseases and the increased survival of these patients . research should now be directed towards developing effective treatments for the opportunist infections which are currently more difficult to treat , the secondary malignancies of aids , as well as more effective immunorestorative treatments . future changes in disease patterns must be recognised at an early stage so that resources can be adequately planned and allocated . 
nosocomial outbreak of cryptosporidiosis in aids patients . objective -- to describe a nosocomial outbreak of cryptosporidiosis during four months after june 1989 . setting -- a department of infectious diseases in copenhagen , seeing about half the patients with aids in denmark . subjects -- 73 hiv antibody negative subjects and 60 antibody positive subjects admitted as inpatients during the transmission period of the outbreak ( 20 june-14 august ) , of whom 18 ( 17 with aids , one with aids related complex ) , developed cryptosporidiosis . two further hiv negative subjects ( one departmental secretary , one visiting relative ) developed cryptosporidiosis . main outcome measures -- cryptosporidia in stool samples , clinical symptoms , cd4 cell count , hiv antigen concentration , chemotherapeutic treatment . results -- the source of the outbreak was identified as ice from an ice machine in the ward , contaminated by an incontinent , psychotic patient with cryptosporidiosis picking out ice for cold drinks . the mean incubation time was at least 13 days-that is , twice that in hiv-negative patients . of the 18 patients with aids who developed cryptosporidiosis , five recovered , two were symptomless carriers , three died of unrelated causes , and eight died after prolonged diarrhoea . among the 57 exposed hiv antibody positive inpatients ( excluding two patients and the index case with cryptosporidiosis diagnosed elsewhere ) , significantly more of those who developed symptomatic cryptosporidiosis received oral sulphonamides than those who did not ( 91 % , 10/11 v 48 % , 21/44 , p less than 0.05 ) . conclusions -- the clinical and epidemiological findings indicate that infection was the consequence of very small inocula . increased sensitivity to cryptosporidiosis may be an unrecognised side effect of oral sulphonamide treatment in patients with aids . 
identification of herpes simplex virus dna in lesions of erythema multiforme by the polymerase chain reaction . an association between erythema multiforme and herpes simplex virus infection has been supported by clinical studies and by the detection by immunofluorescence of herpes viral antigen in sera and skin biopsy specimens of patients with erythema multiforme . in rare cases , the virus has also been isolated in cultures of skin biopsy specimens of erythema multiforme . to investigate further the association between erythema multiforme and herpes simplex virus , we used the polymerase chain reaction for herpes simplex virus to examine skin lesions from patients with erythema multiforme . in this study herpes simplex virus dna was detected in 11 of 31 biopsy specimens of erythema multiforme ; six additional cases showed equivocal amplification results , which is suggestive of low amounts of viral dna . seven skin and mucosal biopsy specimens with the histologic changes of herpes virus infection served as positive controls : all were positive for herpes simplex virus dna . viral dna was not detected in control biopsy specimens from skin excised for unrelated conditions . these studies support the association of herpes simplex virus in the pathogenesis of some cases of erythema multiforme . the polymerase chain reaction provides a quick and effective method of detecting herpes simplex virus in lesions of herpes-associated erythema multiforme . furthermore , the polymerase chain reaction may delineate those cases of erythema multiforme that are etiologically related to herpes virus infection and therefore might be treated with acyclovir to prevent recurrence . 
symptomatic polyneuropathy in human immunodeficiency virus antibody seropositive men with and without immune deficiency : a comparative electrophysiological study . symptomatic polyneuropathy in human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection was studied in ten men with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) and in ten men without the immune deficiency . in both groups of patients electrophysiological signs of polyneuropathy of the axonal type were present in the sural , median and peroneal nerves . the aids patients had a greater reduction of the mean ( sd ) sural nerve action potential , 3.1 ( 2.7 ) microv , than in patients without aids , 10.2 ( 6.1 ) microv ( p less than 0.01 ) and greater slowing of peroneal nerve conduction velocity , 42.6 ( 1.4 ) m/s in aids patients versus 52.6 ( 3.3 ) m/s in patients without aids ( p less than 0.0001 ) . these findings indicate that in most hiv infected patients the severity but not the type of neuropathy depends on whether an immune deficient state has developed . seven patients with symptomatic polyneuropathy were treated with azidothymidine ( azt ) for an average of 10 months and compared with a group of five untreated patients with similar symptoms . no effect of azt treatment on sural or median nerve amplitude or conduction velocity or on the vibratory or temperature thresholds was observed . 
paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis : clinico-pathological correlations . three new cases of limbic encephalitis in association with malignancy are reported . the literature on this condition is reviewed and the clinical , laboratory and histopathological features of cases proven at necropsy are correlated . the possible pathogenic mechanism of this disorder is discussed . 
differences in access to zidovudine ( azt ) among symptomatic hiv-infected persons . object : to evaluate socioeconomic factors that determine whether symptomatic hiv-infected persons are offered zidovudine ( azt ) . design : cross-sectional survey conducted as part of the robert wood johnson foundation 's aids health services program . setting : public hospital clinics and community-based aids organizations in nine american cities . patients : 880 hiv-seropositive outpatients interviewed between october 1988 and may 1989 . main results : males were more likely to have been offered azt than were females ( adjusted odds ratio 2.99 ; 95 % confidence interval 1.67 to 5.36 ) , those with insurance were more likely to have been offered azt than were those without ( adjusted odds ratio 2.00 ; 95 % confidence interval 1.25 to 3.21 ) , and whites more likely to have been offered azt than were non-whites ( adjusted odds ratio 1.73 ; 95 % confidence interval 1.11 to 2.69 ) . intravenous drug users were less likely to have been offered azt than were non-drug users ( adjusted odds ratio 0.44 ; 95 % confidence interval 0.28 to 0.69 ) . persons who had had an episode of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia were more likely to have been offered azt than were persons who had aids and had not had pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( adjusted odds ratio 2.95 ; 95 % confidence interval 1.71 to 5.11 ) . conclusion : the authors conclude that traditionally disadvantaged groups have less access to azt , the only antiretroviral agent demonstrated to increase survival of patients who have symptomatic hiv infection . 
a hospital-based prospective study of perinatal infection with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 . most infants with pediatric acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and infections with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) are infected perinatally by their mothers . to determine the proportion of exposed infants who are infected , we conducted a hospital-based prospective study in hiv-1-infected women whose infants were delivered at a single metropolitan hospital in miami , fla . a population of uninfected women and their infants was also enrolled and followed longitudinally for 2 years to assess laboratory and clinical measurements . the median follow-up is now 18 months for 82 infants born to hiv-1-infected mothers . the proportion of infected infants in this group is 0.30 ( 25/82 ) . none of the infants born to 110 hiv-1-seronegative mothers were seropositive . infected infants were easily distinguished from noninfected infants by virus isolation . no single immunologic or hematologic measure was predictive of infection for all infants at risk for hiv-1 infection who were 6 months of age or younger . as a group , however , infected infants could be distinguished from uninfected index infants by a number of immunologic measures by 6 months of age ; the absolute number of cd4 + lymphocytes and the cd4 + / cd8 + lymphocyte ratio were the variables most predictive of infection . as in retrospective studies , clinical disease developed in 80 % of infected infants within the first 24 months of life . this study provides documentation of hiv-1 perinatal transmission risk and early correlates of infection in young infants from a single hospital . 
ditiocarb sodium ( diethyldithiocarbamate ) therapy in patients with symptomatic hiv infection and aids . a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled , multicenter study . we randomized 389 symptomatic patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection to ditiocarb sodium ( 400 mg/m2 orally for 24 weeks ) or a placebo . patients were well balanced according to centers for disease control ( cdc ) group , cd4 + cell number , and duration of disease prior to entry . ten new acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) - defining opportunistic infections occurred in the treated patients and 21 in the controls . reduction of new opportunistic infections in the ditiocarb group was significant in all patients ( relative risk [ rr ] , 0.44 ) and in patients with aids ( cdc groups iv-c1 and iv-d ) ( rr , 0.12 ) . the size of the effect of ditiocarb was maintained when data were reanalyzed after exclusion of a patient who progressed to pneumocystis carinii pneumonia who was not strictly cdc-defined ( rr , 0.46 ) , or when considering as new opportunistic infections three events , which were clinically active at entry , but for which the definitive diagnosis was made during study ( rr , 0.49 ) . the administration of ditiocarb did not induce any major adverse clinical or biological reactions . we conclude that , in this study , ditiocarb was safe and reduced the incidence of opportunistic infections in patients with symptomatic hiv infection . 
depletion of muscle mitochondrial dna in aids patients with zidovudine-induced myopathy . long-term zidovudine therapy in patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection can cause a destructive mitochondrial myopathy with histological features of ragged-red fibres ( rrf ) and proliferation of abnormal mitochondria . in 9 zidovudine-treated patients with this myopathy we found severely reduced amounts ( up to 78 % reduction vs normal adult controls ) of mitochondrial dna ( mtdna ) in muscle biopsy specimens by means of southern blotting . in 2 hiv-positive patients who had not received zidovudine , muscle mtdna content did not differ from that in the 4 controls . depletion of mtdna seems to be reversible , since 1 patient showed a substantial reduction in rrf and a concomitant pronounced increase in muscle mtdna content after zidovudine therapy was discontinued . depletion of muscle mtdna is probably due to zidovudine-induced inhibition of mtdna replication by dna polymerase gamma and is not a secondary effect of hiv infection . 
risks and benefits of paracetamol antipyresis in young children with fever of presumed viral origin to examine whether antipyretic therapy in young children is associated with potential risks ( interference with enhanced host defences at febrile temperatures ) or benefits ( improved comfort and behaviour ) , a randomised , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of paracetamol was conducted among 225 children 6 months to 6 years of age who presented with acute ( less than or equal to 4 days ) fever ( greater than or equal to 38 degrees c per rectum ) without evident bacterial focus of infection . parents were asked to give paracetamol liquid 10-15 mg/kg or placebo every 4 h as needed for fever and to avoid bathing , sponging , or other pharmacological agents . parents kept temperature and symptom diaries and recorded changes in child comfort and behaviour according to a pretested , 5-category likert-type questionnaire 1-2 h after every dose . there were no significant differences between treated and placebo groups in mean duration of subsequent fever ( 34.7 vs 36.1 h ) or other symptoms ( 72.9 vs 71.7 h ) . paracetamol-treated children were more likely to be rated by their parents as having at least a 1-category improvement in activity ( 38 vs 11 % ; p = 0.005 ) and alertness ( 33 vs 12 % ; p = 0.036 ) but no significant differences were noted in mood , comfort , appetite , or fluid intake . that overall improvement in behaviour and comfort with paracetamol was not impressive is underscored by the inaccuracy of parents ' " guess " at the end of the trial as to which agent their child had received-45 % correct guesses for paracetamol and 52 % for placebo . the data suggest that the clinically relevant hazards and benefits of paracetamol antipyresis have been exaggerated . 
cutaneous hypersensitivity reactions due to thiacetazone in hiv-1 seropositive patients treated for tuberculosis the effects of the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) on tuberculosis management was investigated in 227 patients initially treated with a regimen containing streptomycin , isoniazid , and thiacetazone ( sth ) . 93 of these 227 were hiv-seropositive . 60 patients , of whom 18 were hiv-seropositive , received a regimen consisting of streptomycin , isoniazid , rifampicin , and pyrazinamide ( shrz ) in the initial phase , and thiacetazone and isoniazid ( th ) in the continuation phase . cutaneous hypersensitivity reactions occurred in 22 of 111 ( 20 % ) hiv-seropositive patients , and in 2 of 176 ( 1 % ) hiv-seronegative patients ( rr = 18 , 95 % ci 4.4-76 , p less than 10 ( -7 ] . during the first 8 weeks of treatment 18 reactions occurred among the 93 hiv-seropositive patients on sth , whereas no reaction occurred in 17 hiv-seropositive patients during the initial phase of shrz/th ( p = 0.04 ) . none of the 18 hiv-seropositive patients with cutaneous reactions who were subsequently challenged with isoniazid reacted , nor did any of the 10 tested with streptomycin , but 6 of the 7 challenged with thiacetazone reacted . 3 patients ( all hiv-positive and with toxic epidermal necrolysis ) died as a result of the cutaneous reaction . these results have major implications for tuberculosis control programmes in africa . 
a mouse model for investigating the molecular pathogenesis of adenovirus pneumonia . intranasal inoculation of type 5 adenovirus ( ad5 ) produced pneumonia in mice even though the virus did not replicate . to induce the pneumonia , however , a large viral infectious dose was required -- i.e. , 10 ( 10 ) plaque-forming units . four strains of inbred mouse were studied ( c57bl/6n , c57bl/10scn , cba/n , and c3h/n ) : all showed similar inflammatory responses , although the greatest infiltration occurred in the c57bl/6n mice . the pathological response to ad5 infection resembled that previously described in cotton rats : it consisted of overlapping early and late phases , and the infiltration contained primarily lymphocytes and monocytes/macrophages with a scattering of polymorphonuclear leukocytes . the prominent early phase and the presence of polymorphonuclear leukocytes suggested that induction of cytokines may play an important role in the pathogenesis of this pneumonia . assays showed the appearance of tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) , interleukin 1 ( il-1 ) , and il-6 in the infected mouse lungs concomitant with the developing early-phase infiltration . only il-6 was found in the peripheral blood . il-6 reached maximum titers 6-24 hr after infection , whereas maximum levels of tnf-alpha and il-1 were attained 2-3 days after infection . specific rnas for each of these cytokines were demonstrated in the infected lungs . to test the hypothesis that a cytotoxic t-cell response was responsible for the second phase , which primarily consisted of a perivascular and peribronchial infiltration of lymphocytes , ad5 was used to infect c57bl/10scn nu/nu and parent mice . the nude mice showed a normal early-phase response , but essentially no peribronchial and only minimal perivascular infiltrations occurred . 
focal hepatic tuberculosis in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . patients infected with hiv are known to have unusual manifestations of a variety of infections . we have described the third reported case of a patient with aids having an apparent pyogenic liver abscess subsequently diagnosed as focal hepatic tuberculosis . this case emphasizes the need for aggressive diagnostic procedures for evaluation of focal liver abnormalities in these patients . 
counseling patients seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus . an approach for medical practice . persons at risk for infection with the human immunodeficiency virus are being encouraged to learn their serostatus . while such knowledge can help patients seek appropriate medical care , it can also be distressing . we describe an approach , based on crisis counseling , for physicians to use in working with patients infected with hiv . it can help physicians in assisting patients with emotional reactions to the diagnosis as well as in directing patients to manage practical issues of concern . methods for discussing safer sex or injection practices are also presented . 
susceptibility to coxsackievirus b3-induced chronic myocarditis maps near the murine tcr alpha and myhc alpha loci on chromosome 14 . this study was undertaken to determine the genetic control of host susceptibility to coxsackievirus b3 ( cvb3 ) - induced chronic myocarditis in a mouse model . an autosomal recessive autoimmune myocardial disease ( amd ) gene ( possibly more than one gene ) , which determined susceptibility to cvb3-induced chronic myocarditis in the a/j and dba/2j inbred mouse strains , was mapped to a segment of chromosome 14 . data from both the axb/bxa recombinant inbred ( ri ) strains and the b10.d2 ( 57n ) h-8b congenic mice supported this linkage relationship . analysis of the axb/bxa ri strain distribution patterns suggested that amd maps distal to the np-2 , tcr alpha , and myhc alpha loci . 
