cause of death in an emergency department a retrospective review was done of 601 consecutive emergency department deaths . nontrauma causes accounted for 77 % of the deaths and this group had an average age of 64 years and a male to female ratio of 1.9:1 . trauma caused 23 % of the fatalities and this group had a younger average age of 29 years and a male to female ratio of 4.6:1 . the most common causes of nontrauma death were sudden death of uncertain cause ( 34 % ) , coronary artery disease ( 34 % ) , cancer ( 5 % ) , other heart disease ( 4 % ) , chronic obstructive lung disease ( 3 % ) , drug overdose ( 3 % ) , and sudden infant death syndrome ( 2 % ) . the most common causes of trauma death were motor vehicle accidents ( 61 % ) and gunshot wounds ( 16 % ) . the overall autopsy rate was 40 % . death certificates were often in error . 
factor xiii deficiency and intracranial hemorrhages in infancy . we report an infant with factor xiii deficiency who had 2 seemingly spontaneous intracranial hemorrhages . it is important to consider factor xiii deficiency as a possible cause of unexplained intracranial hemorrhages in infancy . ongoing factor replacement therapy is recommended to prevent further bleeding episodes . 
threat of unemployment and cardiovascular risk factors : longitudinal study of quality of sleep and serum cholesterol concentrations in men threatened with redundancy . objective -- to assess whether the threat of unemployment affects risk factors for cardiovascular disease . design -- longitudinal study of a cohort of middle aged shipyard workers followed up for a mean of 6.2 ( sd 1.9 ) years and a group of controls observed for the same period . the first investigation took place during a period of relative economic stability for the shipyard and the second during the phase of its closure . setting -- an age cohort health screening programme in malmo , sweden . participants -- 715 male shipyard workers and 261 age matched male controls . main outcome measures -- changes in 19 variables related to the risk of cardiovascular disease , and psychological variables , alcohol consumption , smoking , and dietary habits as assessed by questionnaire . results -- serum cholesterol concentrations increased more ( mean 0.25 ( sd 0.68 ) mmol/l v 0.08 ( 0.66 ) mmol/l ) and serum calcium concentrations decreased less ( -0.06 ( 0.10 ) mmol/l v -0.08 ( 0.09 ) mmol/l ) in the shipyard workers than in the controls . a correlation was found between scores for sleep disturbance and changes in serum cholesterol concentration . in the whole series there was a greater increase in serum cholesterol concentrations among men threatened with unemployment ( 437/976 ; 44.8 % ) than among those who were not . in stepwise regression analysis the change in serum cholesterol concentration was correlated with changes in haemoglobin concentration , body weight , and serum triglyceride and calcium concentrations . a positive correlation was found between change in cholesterol concentration and change in blood pressure , indicating that the overall risk profile had worsened among men with increased serum cholesterol concentrations . conclusions -- risk of unemployment increases the serum cholesterol concentration in middle aged men , the increase being more pronounced in those with sleep disturbance . the increase in serum cholesterol is related to changes in other established risk factors for cardiovascular disease . these findings might partly explain the excessive mortality due to cardiovascular disease recorded among the unemployed and people with sleep disturbance . 
efficacy of potassium and magnesium in essential hypertension : a double-blind , placebo controlled , crossover study objective -- to evaluate the antihypertensive activity of potassium given alone or in combination with magnesium in patients with mild hypertension . design -- a double blind , randomised , placebo controlled , crossover trial of 32 weeks ' duration . settings -- cardiology outpatient department , sassoon general hospitals , pune , india . patients -- 37 adults with mild hypertension ( diastolic blood pressure less than 110 mm hg ) . intervention -- patients received either placebo or potassium 60 mmol/day alone or in combination with magnesium 20 mmol/day in a crossover design . no other drug treatment was allowed . measurements -- blood pressure and heart rate assessed at weekly intervals and biochemical parameters at monthly intervals . results -- potassium alone or in combination with magnesium produced a significant reduction in systolic and diastolic blood pressures ( p less than 0.001 ) and a significant reduction in serum cholesterol concentration ( p less than 0.05 ) ; other biochemical variables did not change . magnesium did not have an additional effect . urinary potassium excretion increased significantly in the groups who received potassium alone or in combination with magnesium . the drug was well tolerated and compliance was satisfactory . conclusion -- potassium 60 mmol/day lowers arterial blood pressure in patients with mild hypertension . giving magnesium as well has no added advantage . 
outcome of renal replacement treatment in patients with diabetes mellitus . objective -- to compare the outcome of renal replacement treatment in patients with diabetes mellitus and in non-diabetic patients with end stage renal failure . design -- retrospective comparison of cases and matched controls . setting -- renal unit , western infirmary , glasgow , providing both dialysis and renal transplantation . patients -- 82 diabetic patients starting renal replacement treatment between 1979 and 1988 , compared with 82 matched non-diabetic controls with renal failure and 39 different matched controls undergoing renal transplantation . main outcome measures -- patient characteristics , history of smoking , prevalence of left ventricular hypertrophy and myocardial ischaemia at start of renal replacement treatment ; survival of patients with renal replacement treatment and of patients and allografts with renal transplantation . results -- the overall survival of the diabetic patients during the treatment was 83 % , 59 % , and 50 % at one , three , and five years . survival was significantly poorer in the diabetic patients than the controls ( p less than 0.001 ) . particularly adverse features for outcome at the start of treatment were increasing age ( p less than 0.01 ) and current cigarette smoking ( relative risk ( 95 % confidence interval ) 2.28 ( 0.93 to 4.84 ) , p less than 0.05 ) . deaths were mainly from cardiac and vascular causes . the incidence of peritonitis in patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis was the same in diabetic patients and controls ( 49 % in each group remained free of peritonitis after one year ) , and the survival of renal allografts was not significantly worse in diabetic patients ( p less than 0.5 ) . conclusions -- renal replacement treatment may give good results in diabetic patients , although the outlook remains less favourable than for non-diabetic patients because of coexistent , progressive vascular disease , which is more severe in older patients . 
anterior lesser curve seromyotomy and posterior truncal vagotomy versus truncal vagotomy and pyloroplasty in the treatment of chronic duodenal ulcer . in a prospective randomized controlled clinical trial , anterior lesser curve seromyotomy with posterior truncal vagotomy ( ampt , n = 77 ) has been compared with truncal vagotomy and pyloroplasty ( tvp , n = 69 ) in 146 patients with chronic duodenal ulcer with a mean duration of symptoms of 7 years . the mean follow-up time was 4.5 years with a range of 2-7 years . one elderly patient died from a myocardial infarction in the tvp group . acid secretory inhibition in response to insulin and pentagastrin stimuli was equal in both groups , indicating a similar degree of vagal denervation . recurrent ulcers were more common after ampt ( five ) than tvp ( two ) ( p = 0.29 , n.s. ) . dumping and diarrhoea were significantly commoner ( p less than 0.001 ) after tvp , with 31 instances as opposed to eight with ampt . the mean operating time was increased by 6 min when ampt was performed rather than tvp . the results of this study have shown that ampt is associated with a lower incidence of dumping and diarrhoea and achieves better overall visick grading . however , continued monitoring is required to assess the long-term incidence of recurrent ulceration after this procedure . 
survey of the use of thrombolysis for acute limb ischaemia in the uk and ireland . a total of 156 vascular surgeons from the uk and ireland responded to a postal questionnaire on the use of thrombolysis in acute limb ischaemia . almost half had used thrombolysis in the previous 12 months . low dose intra-arterial streptokinase ( 89 per cent ) was the regimen most frequently used , but 33 per cent had used intravenous streptokinase . detailed results for 103 patients ( limb salvage rate 60 per cent , amputation rate 35 per cent , mortality rate 5 per cent ) were similar to those of previously published reports . complications in most series were infrequent , but in the entire survey there were six bleeding-related deaths and one death from anaphylaxis . a total of 67 per cent of surgeons with working experience indicated that selected patients with acute arterial thromboses were most suitable for thrombolysis , particularly if there was no neurological deficit and no run-off for surgical bypass . distal or late emboli and graft occlusions were regarded as appropriate by some surgeons . this study demonstrated that many vascular surgeons currently use thrombolysis , although sparingly and in selected cases . patients with acute limb ischaemia should be managed by experienced vascular surgeons who are aware of the new therapeutic alternatives , an ideal supported by almost three-quarters of respondents to this survey . 
resympathectomy of the upper extremity . resympathectomy was performed in 27 patients ( eight bilaterally ) with ischaemic hand phenomena . an extended operative technique , resecting parts of the second and third intercostal nerves and their surrounding tissue , was used . in all 35 procedures the posterior extrapleural approach was used . follow-up was from 3 to 12 years . only the sympathetic ganglia had been removed during the previous surgery by the axillary approach ( 67 per cent of these patients had had a transient response for between 6 months and 2 years ; 33 per cent had had no response at all ) . a direct subjective improvement was seen after 27 of the 35 reoperations ( 77 per cent ) . in 14 patients continuous wave doppler ultrasound studies were available and showed a significant increase in peak forward frequency after operation ( p less than 0.001 ) . from these data it may be concluded that it is possible to obtain a resympathectomy effect , but reoperation should be reserved for special cases for whom survival of digits is essential . 
venous stasis and vein lumen changes during surgery the mechanisms underlying the development of postoperative deep vein thrombosis remain to be fully elucidated . previous studies have suggested that peroperative venous distension may be a factor associated with venous thromboembolism . in this study we have obtained high resolution ultrasound images of gastrocnemius and posterior tibial veins in 62 patients undergoing a range of general surgical procedures . from these we determined the changes in vein diameter occurring during the operative procedures , in response to induction of anaesthesia , and after completion of surgery . veins showed no evidence of dilatation in response to the induction of anaesthesia , but by the end of the operative procedure showed distension of 22-28 per cent . distension was most prominent in the gastrocnemius veins , and lesser distension was observed in the posterior tibial veins . in a series of patients who received an infusion of 1 litre of saline in addition to basal requirements , distension was 57 per cent compared with 22 per cent in the corresponding control group . intraoperative venous distension is associated with factors that lead to deep vein thrombosis and may be involved in the mechanisms which result in the commencement of deep vein thrombosis . 
myocarditis or acute myocardial infarction associated with interleukin-2 therapy for cancer . the hearts of eight patients aged 22 to 67 years ( mean , 41 years ) who died during or within 4 days of interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) based immunotherapy for treatment of renal cell carcinoma or melanoma were studied at necropsy . death resulted from combined cardiorespiratory failure in two patients , sepsis in four patients , acute myocardial infarction in one patient , and myocarditis in one patient . transmural left ventricular necrosis was present in one of the two patients with significant atherosclerotic coronary artery narrowing . noninfectious myocarditis was present in five patients : the inflammatory infiltrate was lymphocytic in four and composed of a mixture of eosinophils and lymphocytes in one . although treatment-related deaths associated with high-dose il-2 therapy are uncommon ( 1.5 % in 652 consecutive patients ) , the potential for significant myocardial ischemia or myocarditis exists , and careful monitoring for arrhythmias or myocardial failure is warranted . 
posttachycardia t-wave changes . a 25-year-old previously healthy man presented to the emergency department with a tachydysrhythmia . after pharmacological intervention , the patient 's rhythm converted to normal sinus and symmetrically inverted t-wave changes were noted . although asymptomatic after conversion , the patient was admitted to the hospital and monitored for two days to rule out cardiac ischemia correlating with the t-wave changes . the patient was ultimately discharged in good health . a review of the emergency medical literature fails to reveal examples of post-tachycardic t-wave changes that may simulate myocardial ischemia but be of no clinical significance . 
the normal mediastinum in blunt traumatic rupture of the thoracic aorta and brachiocephalic arteries . in a review of 52 articles , published between 1953 and 1989 , 656 patients with blunt traumatic rupture of the thoracic aorta or brachiocephalic arteries were identified . of these , 608 ( 92.7 % ) had an abnormal mediastinum on initial chest radiographs obtained in the emergency department , thus allowing early detection of the vascular injury . unfortunately , 48 ( 7.3 % ) of these patients had a normal mediastinum on their initial chest radiographs . this appears to occur when the traumatic pseudoaneurysm is not accompanied by associated mediastinal hemorrhage or hematoma formation , and the pseudoaneurysm is either small or is situated in such a way that it does not alter the mediastinal contour . the use of accessory clinical and radiographic signs to indicate the need for aortography has been shown to be of very low yield , but would have allowed the early detection of an additional 5.6 % of the reported cases . performing aortography solely on the basis of a history of major decelerating blunt trauma to the thorax remains the only way , in the acute emergency department setting , to detect the 1.7 % of patients with aortic or brachiocephalic arterial rupture who have no mediastinal abnormality or accessory clinical or radiographic signs of vascular injury . there is evidence from the literature , however , to suggest that the evaluation of serial chest radiographs obtained at close intervals for the first month following trauma for the development of mediastinal abnormality or large hemothorax is an acceptable alternative to the routine performance of aortography in those blunt chest trauma victims with no clinical or radiographic suspicion of vascular injury . 
oscillometric finger blood pressure versus brachial auscultative blood pressure recording . in this study , a recently marketed proprietary finger blood pressure monitor , the marshall , astro f-88 , was compared with the standard auscultative brachial mercury sphygmomanometer on 125 subjects . measurements were undertaken according to the standards set by the american heart association . sensitivity of the finger blood pressure measurement was 76 % for systolic and 75 % for diastolic blood pressure in diagnosis of high blood pressure ( systolic greater than 140 mm hg and diastolic greater than 90 mm hg ) . specificity was 86 % for systolic and 82 % for diastolic blood pressure . positive predictive values were 58 % for systolic and 38 % for diastolic blood pressure in the study population in which prevalence of hypertension was 12 % . the correlation coefficient ( pearson ) for systolic values between devices was 0.76 ( p less than .0001 ) and 0.57 ( p less than .0001 ) for diastolic pressure . values obtained by the finger monitor were found to be higher than those obtained by the mercury sphygmomanometer . mean differences and standard deviations ( paired t test ) for systolic and diastolic pressures between the two devices were 2.3 + / - 14.9 mm hg ( p less than .08 ) and 2.9 + / - 14.5 mm hg ( p less than .02 ) , respectively . these values are not in accordance with the proposed national standards because only 48 % of the systolic and 37 % of the diastolic blood pressure measurements were within 5 mm hg of the mercury sphygmomanometer measurements . therefore , although these differences may well be due to different techniques of monitoring employed by the devices , this device is not recommended for evaluation of blood pressure . 
blood pressure reactivity predicts myocardial infarction among treated hypertensive patients . high blood pressure ( bp ) defines a prognostically heterogeneous group . because bp varies according to time , setting and means of observation , it has been postulated that bp reactivity might better predict cardiovascular disease ( cvd ) than does unidimensional measurements . to assess bp reactivity , the difference between pretreatment nurse ( rn ) and physician ( md ) diastolic bp ( dbp ) -- systematically recorded in that order -- or md-rn dbp , was obtained in 1737 previously untreated patients with sustained , rn bp greater than or equal to 160 and/or 95 mmhg . patients stratified by tertiles of md-rn dbp [ ( i ) less than or equal to - 3 , ( ii ) -2 to 3 and ( iii ) greater than or equal to 4 mmhg ] were similar by sex , race , age , body mass index , cholesterol , electrocardiography , prior cvd , smoking and pretreatment or attained in-treatment bps . during 14 years of followup , myocardial infarction ( mi ) incidence per 1000/year were , tertile i ( 3.2 ) , ii ( 3.7 ) , iii ( 7.6 ) ( relative risk = 2.4 , iii vs i + ii , p less than 0.05 ) , whereas stroke incidence and non-cvd mortality were evenly distributed . by cox survival analysis , controlling for other entry characteristics only age , sex and dbp reactivity remained predictive ( p less than or equal to 0.03 ) of mi or total cvd . thus , bp reactivity , probably a centrally-mediated phenomenon , identifies a subgroup of hypertensives with an increased propensity for mi despite successful bp control . 
estimating the benefits of cholesterol lowering : are risk factors for coronary heart disease multiplicative ? it is often stated that the major risk factors for coronary heart disease ( chd ) -- smoking , high blood pressure and high serum cholesterol -- are not merely additive but act together such that each multiplies the effects of the others . economic analyses in which the benefits of risk factor modification are estimated often reflect this . this paper explains how predictive models based on the simplest form of the multiple logistic function inevitably predict greater benefit from cholesterol lowering in those in whom other risk factors are adverse ; this results from the model itself , rather than the data . chd death rates from the screenee population of the multiple risk factor intervention trial are examined : these suggest that the relationship between cholesterol and both other major risk factors is closer to additive than to multiplicative . when the benefits of cholesterol lowering are estimated , a model based on additive risk , specifying product ( " interaction " ) terms , is to be preferred . 
the leukocyte count : a predictor of hypertension . in an exploratory study of 1031 persons observed to progress from normotension to essential hypertension and 1031 matched subjects who remained normotensive , the initial leukocyte count ( wbc ) was found to be related to the development of hypertension , with risk increased 40 % ( 95 % confidence interval 12-82 % ) in persons in the highest as compared to the lowest quartile of wbc . this relationship proved to be largely independent of body mass index , body fat distribution , alcohol and tobacco consumption , and parental history of hypertension . an increased wbc may reflect greater sympathetic tone or may directly increase peripheral vascular resistance by impeding circulation through small blood vessels . if confirmed , this study adds another condition to the growing list for which the wbc is predictive . this simple , cheap test should be considered for inclusion in prospective epidemiological studies of many different diseases . 
plasma fibrinogen and coronary risk factors : the scottish heart health study . plasma fibrinogen was measured in a sample of 8824 men and women aged 40-59 years participating in the scottish heart health study , and related to cardiovascular risk factors . women had higher fibrinogen levels than men . in both sexes , multivariate analysis showed that fibrinogen was positively associated with age , smoking , total cholesterol and body mass index and negatively associated with alcohol consumption . among women , early menopause and systolic blood pressure were also associated with fibrinogen levels . univariate analyses showed weak positive associations with fish consumption for both sexes although only male white fish consumption entered the final model . women with a history of contraceptive pill usage had significantly lower fibrinogen levels . the relationship between fibrinogen and physical activity was complex , and could largely be explained by smoking . these findings support the hypothesis that raised fibrinogen is one mechanism by which several major risk factors may promote coronary heart disease . however , known risk factors explained , at most , 10 % of the total variance in fibrinogen levels among the general population . 
the effects of generation and gender on the joint distributions of lipid and apolipoprotein phenotypes in the population at large . the generation and gender effects on the joint distributions of total plasma cholesterol ( total-c ) , ln triglycerides ( lntrig ) , hdl-cholesterol ( hdl-c ) , ldl-cholesterol ( ldl-c ) , apolipoproteins ai ( apo ai ) , aii ( apo aii ) , and e ( lnapo e ) were studied in 184 male grandparents ( mgp ) , 242 female grandparents ( fgp ) , 237 male parents ( mp ) , 235 female parents ( fp ) , 202 male children ( mc ) , and 200 female children ( fc ) . homogeneity of variance tests revealed that lipid variances were gender and/or generation specific while apolipoprotein variances were homogeneous across strata . in the absence of heterogeneity of variance , significant heterogeneity in ldl : lntrig and lntrig : apo aii covariation was found between genders in the parental generation . in the presence of heterogeneity of variance , significant heterogeneity of correlation between genders and/or across generations was found for the hdl-c : ldl-c , total-c : ldl-c , total-c : lntrig , lntrig : ldl-c , total-c : lnapo e and hdl-c : lnapo e bivariate distributions . analyses of principal components revealed that the generation and gender specific cohorts have similar eigenvalues but distinct eigenvectors for the first two principal components underlying the seven dimensional lipid and apolipoprotein distribution . we conclude that the amount of variability explained by the first two principal components is the same across cohorts but how the interindividual variability is distributed among the lipid and apolipoprotein traits is generation and gender specific . this study documents the role that variance and covariance might play in determining risk of disease for special subgroups of the population at large . it also demonstrates how variances and covariances between risk factors traits characterize life processes of aging and sexual dimorphism . this study argues that future biometrical genetic and epidemiological studies of coronary artery disease must take into account age and gender effects on interindividual variability and covariability of risk factors . 
risk ratios and risk differences in estimating the effect of risk factors for cardiovascular disease in the elderly . this article reviews the nature of the effects of hypertension , smoking and cholesterol on the incidence of cardiovascular disease and emphasizes how these effects vary by age . in the methods section , we discuss briefly the concepts of additive and multiplicative statistical models as tools for summarizing data . in the results section , we summarize available data on the association between incident stroke and coronary heart disease in the elderly and each of these major risk factors . the traditional multiplicative model parsimoniously characterizes the individual and joint effects of age and high blood pressure in terms of risk ratios ; but , for smoking and cholesterol , an additive model appears to be the most parsimonious . we discuss the consequences of these observations for the study and prevention of cardiovascular disease in the elderly . 
therapy of renal cell carcinoma with interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cells : phase ii experience with a hybrid bolus and continuous infusion interleukin-2 regimen . forty-seven patients with metastatic or unresectable renal cell carcinoma were treated with interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) and lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) - cell therapy , using a hybrid il-2 regimen . il-2 was administered initially by intravenous bolus ( 10 ( 5 ) u/kg [ cetus corp , emeryville , ca ] every 8 hours for 3 days ) during the priming phase , and subsequently by continuous infusion ( 3 x 10 ( 6 ) u/m2 for 6 days ) ; during this second treatment period , in vitro-generated lak cells were administered . despite selection of patients for good performance status ( ps ) ( 29 , ps 0 ; 18 , ps 1 ) prior nephrectomy ( 43 of the 47 patients ) , and low tumor burden , the response rate was low ( two complete [ crs ] and two partial responses [ prs ] , for an overall objective response rate of 9 % ) . toxicity was comparable to that experienced with the high-dose bolus regimen . these results suggest that the dose and schedule of il-2 administration may influence the likelihood of response to il-2 in renal cell carcinoma . 
interleukin-2 therapy in patients with metastatic malignant melanoma : a phase ii study . forty-seven patients with metastatic malignant melanoma were treated with two 5-day cycles of 100,000 u/kg recombinant interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) intravenously ( iv ) every 4 hours separated by 1 week . this dose and schedule of il-2 were identical to those used in a previous combined il-2 and lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cell phase ii clinical trial of the il-2 / lak working group . patient eligibility criteria , and clinical management guidelines were similar to those used in the previous trial . forty-six patients were assessable for response . objective responses were observed in 10 of 46 patients ( two complete responses [ crs ] , eight partial responses [ prs ] ) or 22 % with responses occurring in lung and liver as well as lymph nodes and subcutaneous sites . the median response duration was 8 months . toxicity was significant ; three patients developed myocardial infarction , and one patient died during therapy . overall the toxicity and response rate for single-agent il-2 are similar to that observed with il-2 administered in combination with lak cells in the previous trial . these results suggest that single-agent therapy with il-2 when administered in this schedule has significant antimelanoma activity in humans , and that lak cells generated from peripheral blood add little to the antimelanoma activity of this dose and schedule of il-2 . 
initial ct findings in 753 patients with severe head injury . a report from the nih traumatic coma data bank . in this prospective multicenter study , the authors have examined data derived from the initial computerized tomography ( ct ) scans of 753 patients with severe head injury . when the ct findings were related to abnormal intracranial pressure and to death , the most important characteristics of the scans were : midline shift : compression or obliteration of the mesencephalic cisterns : and the presence of subarachnoid blood . diffuse hemispheric swelling was also found to be associated with an early episode of either hypoxia or hypotension . 
spinal cord arteriovenous malformation with an associated lymphatic anomaly . case report . spinal cord arteriovenous malformations ( avm 's ) , like other vascular anomalies of the central nervous system , can be associated with similar vascular lesions of the skin and viscera . a 7-year-old girl , who presented with rapidly progressing paraplegia , was found to have a spinal cord avm , cutaneous angioma , and a chylous malformation of the lymphatic system . she had previously undergone treatment for a posterior thoracic cutaneous angioma . at surgery , upon incision of the paravertebral muscle fascia , viscous pale fluid was encountered emanating from a foramen in the thoracic lamina . the spinal avm was resected in spite of concern that the abnormality represented spinal osteomyelitis . postoperatively , there was full return of function in the lower extremities , along with recurrent episodes of chylothorax , which slowly came under control with dietary manipulation . a review of the anatomy of the thoracic duct and nontraumatic causes of chylothorax is presented , and the association of cutaneous and central angiomas is discussed . finally , the treatment of chylothorax is delineated . 
significance of fill-in after thallium-201 reinjection following delayed imaging : comparison with regional wall motion and angiographic findings to identify reversible defects , reinjection of a small amount of thallium-201 ( 201tl ) following 3-hr delayed imaging was performed in 60 patients with coronary artery disease who had perfusion abnormalities on their post-exercise 201tl images . thallium-201 uptake was visually scored and judged as normal ( group 1 ) , reversible defect ( group ii ) , new fill-in after reinjection ( group iiia ) and no fill-in even after reinjection ( group iiib ) . new fill-in after reinjection was observed in 27 segments of the 85 segments ( 32 % ) , showing persistent defect on the stress and delayed images . the wall motion in group iiia was worse than group ii but better than group iiib . group iiia showed q-wave on ecg more often ( 69 % ) than group ii ( 27 % ) ( p less than 0.01 ) , but less often than group iiib ( 85 % ) ( p less than 0.05 ) . these data indicate that the reinjection 201tl imaging often identifies new fill-in in the areas of no redistribution on the delayed images and it may hold promise for assessing tissue viability which the conventional imaging may underestimate . 
assessing clinical significance of apnea exceeding fifteen seconds with event recording . using event recording , we determined how often apnea exceeding 15 seconds in duration was associated with bradycardia and how often patients with apnea resumed breathing spontaneously . of 1306 documented apnea events exceeding 15 seconds ( 54 patients ) , 926 lasted 16 to 20 seconds , 262 lasted 21 to 25 seconds , and 118 exceeded 25 seconds . of these episodes , 75.3 % were isolated and 14.9 % were associated with pulse deceleration , 4.4 % with irregular transthoracic impedance , and 5.4 % with bradycardia . event recording provided data supporting discontinuation of monitoring in 50 of 54 patients : 36 spontaneously resumed breathing before the auditory alarm and 14 had a decreased incidence of apnea with maturation . follow-up of 51 patients ( three not located ) showed that none had subsequent apparent life-threatening events or sudden infant death syndrome . our results in these older infants and children ( median age 6.7 months ) provide substantiation that such patients with apnea of less than 20 seconds without bradycardia do not require continued monitoring . further , these data suggest that in selected older infants , longer isolated apnea may be well tolerated ; however , hemoglobin saturation during sleep and the ability to resume breathing after the apnea alarm delay is prolonged should be verified . our patient population had a wide age range and heterogeneity of diagnoses , and was typically free of symptoms , so these results should not be extrapolated uncritically to premature infants , infants with chronic lung disease , and patients with symptomatic apnea . 
treatment of kawasaki syndrome : a comparison of two dosage regimens of intravenously administered immune globulin . because intravenously administered immune globulin ( ivig ) is effective in reducing the incidence of coronary artery aneurysms in kawasaki syndrome when given at a dose of 400 mg/kg daily for 4 days , we undertook a multicenter clinical trial comparing two dosage regimens of ivig . patients were randomly assigned to receive ivig at either 400 mg/kg daily for 4 days ( 22 patients ) or 1 gm/kg as a single dose ( 22 patients ) . all patients received aspirin therapy , and all were enrolled within 7 days of onset of fever . the presence of coronary artery aneurysms was evaluated by means of two-dimensional echocardiography before infusion ; at days 4 to 6 , 14 to 21 , and 42 to 49 after infusion ; and at 1 year . coronary artery aneurysms were detected in 3 of the 44 patients , including one patient receiving 400 mg/kg and two patients receiving 1 gm/kg ( p value not significant ) . no giant aneurysms were detected . no major side effects occurred with either dosage regimen . patients receiving the 1 gm/kg dose had a faster resolution of fever and were discharged from the hospital approximately 1 day sooner than the 400 mg/kg group ( p = 0.01 ) . although the relatively small sample size in this trial does not allow for a more definitive statement regarding the occurrence of coronary artery aneurysms , it appears that the 1 gm/kg dose is associated with a more rapid clinical improvement and a shorter hospital stay . 
renovascular beta adrenergic hypersensitivity and hyperinsulinemia in rats with dietary-induced obesity . to determine whether obesity alters responsiveness to vasoactive drugs , we compared the cardiovascular effects of angiotensin , phenylephrine and isoproterenol in unanesthetized age-matched control and obese oscai rats . obesity was induced by programming pups to overeat immediately after birth and then feeding them a high-fat diet thereafter . elevations in tail-cuff systolic and mean pressures from 7 through 11 months of age and in plasma insulin at 8 months of age indicated that obese rats had developed borderline hypertension and hyperinsulinemia . cardiovascular responsiveness was then tested by recording blood pressure , heart rate and renal blood flow from chronically implanted arterial catheters and flow probes while graded doses of the three test drugs were infused intravenously . heart rate and renal blood flow decreased during pressor responses to angiotensin and phenylephrine and were oppositely increased during depressor responses to isoproterenol . magnitude of all cardiovascular receptors was dose-dependent . obese rats had weaker reflex bradycardic responses to angiotensin and phenylephrine than control rats . more importantly , they also had larger renal vasoconstrictor responses to 2 ng/100 g of angiotensin or vasodilator responses to 15 ng/100 of isoproterenol . whether or not the changes in cardiovascular responsiveness were related to hyperinsulinemia was undetermined . our results suggest that , in addition to being overweight , slightly hypertensive and hyperinsulinemic , obese oscai rats have impaired baroreflexes and a renal vascular bed more responsive to beta adrenergic vasodilation . 
effects of long-term coenzyme q10 and captopril treatment on survival and functional capacity in rats with experimentally induced heart infarction . the effects of coenzyme q10 ( coq ) and captopril on functional capacity , hemodynamics and survival were studied in 154 rats that recovered after experimental myocardial infarction . rats were randomized into four groups receiving either coq , captopril , a combination of the two drugs or 1 ml of tap water once daily for 12 weeks from the day of coronary artery ligation . coq as well as captopril and the combined treatment significantly improved exercise capacity as evaluated by lactate production during a standardized treadmill exercise test . no significant changes in heart rate or mean blood pressure were observed during the study in the captopril-treated group . coq treatment increased the maximum heart rate significantly , whereas no effect on mean blood pressure was observed . both captopril and coq decreased pulmonary congestion . furthermore , the data may suggest that captopril prevents right ventricular hypertrophy seen in placebo-treated rats with large infarcts . this was not observed after coq treatment . captopril treatment improved 3-month probability of survival ( 93 % ) as compared with placebo ( 74 % ) ( p less than .05 ) . coq and the combined treatment tended to improve survival , but this was , however , not statistically significant . 
conservative therapy for adnexal torsion . a case report . adnexal torsion has traditionally been treated with oophorectomy because of the fear that untwisting the ovarian pedicle may result in a thrombotic embolus . such a patient had bilateral adnexal torsion secondary to dermoid cysts . since standard therapy , oophorectomy , was performed , the patient was surgically castrated . a review of the literature revealed no reported cases of a thrombotic embolus arising from the untwisting of twisted adnexa and supported conservation of the adnexa rather than routine extirpation , except when necrotic . 
how ancient is temporal arteritis ? realism is one of the characteristics of amarnian art ; some details of the harpist represented in the tomb of pa-aton-em-heb ( 1350 bc , 18th dynasty ) might gives clues to a diagnosis : the eyes are closed with swollen lids , and the harpist appears to stare into space ; he is round shouldered with a very wasted face , his temporal ara is heightened and hollowed by a broken line joining the extremity of the eyebrow with the corner of the eye . these details are not found elsewhere . did the harpist 's blindness result from temporal arteritis associated to polymyalgia rheumatica ? . 
triiodothyronine treatment for raynaud 's phenomenon : a controlled trial . the effects of 80 micrograms triiodothyronine ( t3 ) daily were compared with placebo in a double blind controlled crossover trial in 18 patients with raynaud 's phenomenon . reductions in the frequency , duration and severity of attacks while taking t3 were gradual but highly significant . four of 6 subjects had skin ulcer healing . skin temperatures in the hands increased significantly . the skin temperature recovery times after cold exposure were significantly shorter during t3 therapy compared with placebo . although large dosages of t3 were well tolerated , 6 patients experienced episodic palpitations , and slight but significant increases in heart rate and pulse pressure were observed . evaluation of the use of physiological doses of t3 ( 60 micrograms daily or less ) in the treatment of raynaud 's phenomenon is suggested . 
the heterogeneity of anticentromere antibodies in immunoblotting analysis . we tested anticentromere antibody positive sera from 37 patients by immunoblotting techniques . three antigenic polypeptides were recognized when immunoblotted against protein extracts from hela cell nuclei or from chromosomal segments enriched with centromere region . these were a 17 kda ( cenp-a recognized by 34 sera ) , an 80 kda ( cenp-b recognized by 33 sera ) , and a 140 kda polypeptide ( cenp-c recognized by 26 sera ) . there was no disease specific pattern of antigenic polypeptides , although raynaud 's phenomenon was frequent in patients with anti-cenp-b reactivities ( p less than 0.01 ) . the heterogeneity of the anticentromere antibody response in japanese patients shows anticentromere antibody may not be a disease specific autoantibody and diagnostic marker . 
splinter hemorrhages as a possible clinical manifestation of cholesterol crystal embolization . we describe a patient with cholesterol crystal embolization who demonstrated splinter hemorrhages of multiple fingernails and toenails as part of her clinical presentations . our patient 's clinical presentation , and review of the medical literature , raise the possibility that cholesterol crystal embolization may be associated with splinter hemorrhages . 
pulmonary-renal syndrome with " triad " involvement due to small vessel vasculitis . we describe the clinical course and morphologic findings of a 22-year-old woman presenting with a systemic disease that included nasal ulceration , hemoptysis and rapidly progressive renal failure . biopsies of nasal septum and lung revealed small vessel leukocytoclastic angiitis while renal biopsy showed a diffuse crescentic glomerulonephritis . immunosuppressive therapy resulted in remission of clinical symptoms and resolution of glomerulonephritis as documented in a followup biopsy . although her clinical presentation with triad organ involvement strongly suggested wegener 's granulomatosis , this case illustrates that other varieties of vasculitis may mimic wegener 's granulomatosis . 
acute central nervous system symptoms caused by ibuprofen in connective tissue disease . we describe 2 cases of acute encephalopathy in patients with connective tissue disease caused by small doses of ibuprofen . in addition to aseptic meningitis , both patients had altered mental status and focal neurologic signs , ophthalmoplegia in one and hemiparesis in the other . the spectrum of neurologic manifestations of ibuprofen hypersensitivity is reviewed . 
presentation of breast carcinoma as volkmann 's contracture due to skeletal muscle metastases . metastases to the skeletal muscles are extremely rare . they usually occur during the course of a pulmonary or digestive carcinoma . we describe a case of breast carcinoma presenting with forearm muscle metastases and volkmann 's type contracture . 
hydroxyethyl starch pretreatment in bacteremic sheep . live bacteria were infused in a chronic ovine lung lymph model to determine if a preceding infusion of the colloid , hydroxyethyl starch ( hes ) , exaggerated the cardiopulmonary dysfunction or impaired removal of bacteria by macrophages in the pulmonary circulation . hes was infused ( 3 ml/kg/hr ; n = 6 ) from 24 to 12 hr before the bacteria and decreased plasma protein content and increased pulmonary lymph to plasma protein concentration because of its oncotic properties . ringer 's lactate ( 2 ml/kg/hr ) was given after stopping hes and also to the control group ( n = 6 ) . infusion of live ps . aeruginosa ( 2.5 x 10 ( 8 ) ps . / min for approximately 30 min ) induced equivalent pulmonary hypertension , increased pulmonary microvascular permeability , and cardiovascular depression in the two groups . the removal of bacteria in the lungs was not affected , indicating that this measurement of the function of the mononuclear phagocytic system was not impaired by the preceding hes . 
traumatic rupture of the aorta -- critical decisions for trauma surgeons . the diagnosis and initial stabilization of patients with traumatic rupture of the aorta ( tra ) is performed by trauma surgeons . the resuscitations of 54 tra patients at a level i trauma center are reviewed . although the survival of patients who underwent attempted repair was good ( 75 % ) , 21/27 ( 78 % ) deaths occurred during phases of treatment controlled by a trauma surgeon . the techniques and sequencing of resuscitation can affect outcome . pneumatic antishock garments were not beneficial in the prehospital setting for patients with tra . in fact , pasg were on and inflated in all patients who presented in cardiac arrest . awake , unanesthetized intubation caused fatal aortic rupture in three patients . pharmacologic control of blood pressure during intubation is necessary . the amount of fluid , blood transfusion , and changes in blood pressure secondary to therapy did not statistically affect outcome . the average time from arrival in the er to angiogram was 64.7 minutes . the average time er to operating room was 159.7 minutes . seven cases of tra had delayed diagnosis usually for a misinterpreted cxr ( 5/7 ) . delay in diagnosis did not directly contribute to any deaths . associated abdominal injuries are a common cause of preventable deaths . fourteen patients with combined abdominal injuries and tra were identified . four of six deaths occurred with potentially reparable injuries . operative and diagnostic sequences must be adjusted to allow rapid control of all potentially fatal injuries . 
extraperitoneal endarterectomy for iliofemoral occlusive disease . sixty patients with iliofemoral occlusive disease were treated by autogenous anatomic reconstruction by endarterectomy . endarterectomy was performed extra-peritoneally by the eversion technique . the operative technique and its advantages and disadvantages are discussed . six patients had postoperative complications of acute anastomotic hemorrhage ( two patients ) , would hematoma ( two patients ) , and atelectasis ( two patients ) . sixty patients discharged with patient arterial reconstruction were followed up from 5 months to 17 1/2 years , with a mean follow-up of 53 months . there were no other vascular complications . seventy limbs were at risk during this period , with an accumulative patency rate of 80.4 % at 5 years and 71.4 % at 10 years . there were 11 occlusions of the external iliac artery and one stenosis of the common femoral artery . failures occurred mainly in the external iliac artery , which appears to be the limiting factor in the continued patency of endarterectomy . there were 18 deaths ( 30 % ) . nine deaths were attributed to the complications of arteriosclerosis . 
clinical results of axillobifemoral bypass using externally supported polytetrafluoroethylene seventy-six axillobifemoral grafts with externally supported polytetrafluoroethylene prostheses were performed since 1983 . the indications for operation were absolute ( aortic sepsis ) in 20 ( 26 % ) patients and relative ( excessive operative risk or technical difficulty ) in 56 ( 74 % ) patients . the life-table primary patency for these operations at 4 years follow-up ( mean follow-up , 2 years , 4 months ) was 85 % . we conclude that the patency results achieved in this patient series are sufficiently satisfactory to warrant use of axillobifemoral grafts in an expanded number of patients with high operative risk and need for bypass of aortoiliac occlusive disease . 
duplex scanning of normal or minimally diseased carotid arteries : correlation with arteriography and clinical outcome . this study evaluated the role of duplex scanning in the management of patients with normal or minimally diseases carotid arteries . carotid duplex scans were interpreted according to previously established criteria and considered normal when pulsed doppler spectral waveforms showed laminar flow or only minor flow disturbances . normal flow patterns were noted by duplex scanning in 100 carotid bifurcations of 72 patients who also underwent carotid arteriography . neurologic symptoms ( amaurosis fugax , transient ischemic attack , or stroke ) were present in relation to 23 arteries and absent in relation to 77 arteries . on the 23 symptomatic sides arteriography was interpreted as normal in eight , 1 % to 15 % stenosis in 14 , and 16 % to 40 % stenosis in one . for the 77 asymptomatic sides , arteriography showed normal vessels in 15 , 1 % to 15 % stenosis in 43 , and 16 % to 40 % stenosis in 19 . one symptomatic patient was treated by carotid endarterectomy for an irregular 1 % to 15 % stenosis . none of the asymptomatic lesions were in the range of 80 % to 99 % stenosis , which would justify endarterectomy for asymptomatic disease . clinical follow-up for a mean interval of 28 months on 20 of the 22 symptomatic patients not undergoing surgery revealed no strokes and transient recurrent symptoms in two patients . assuming that the single operation in this study was indicated , duplex scanning correctly identified lesions not requiring carotid endarterectomy in 96 % ( 22/23 ) of the symptomatic patients . a normal duplex scan also predicted a benign clinical outcome without operation . duplex scanning can reliably exclude surgically treatable carotid bifurcation lesions in asymptomatic patients , and endarterectomy is rarely indicated in symptomatic patients with normal duplex scan results . this study supports a nonoperative therapeutic approach for most patients with neurologic symptoms and a normal carotid duplex scan on the appropriate side . 
an effective treatment protocol for intraarterial drug injection . between 1972 and 1988 , 48 patients with extremity ischemia after an intraarterial drug injection were treated with the following protocol : heparin , dextran 40 , dexamethasone , elevation , and early mobilization of the extremity . a tissue ischemia score , derived by assessing the color , capillary refill , sensory function , and temperature of the extremity , was used to assess the ischemic injury . each sign was scored either normal = 0 or abnormal = 1 ; then summed to provide the tissue ischemia score ( range , 0 to 4 ) . twenty-four ( 50 % ) patients had an extremity tissue ischemia score less than or equal to 2 . after treatment 22 of the 24 patients had a normal extremity , and 2 required limited digital amputations . in this group , outcome was comparable regardless of the time interval from intraarterial drug injection to treatment . ten of 24 ( 50 % ) patients with an extremity tissue ischemia score greater than 2 had a normal extremity , 3 had a functional deficit , and 11 required digital amputations . twelve of the 24 patients were treated within 24 hours and had a significantly superior outcome when compared to the 12 who were treated more than 24 hours after intraarterial drug injection ( p less than 0.001 , fisher 's exact test ) . the tissue ischemia score is a useful predictor of extremity outcome in patients with intraarterial drug injection . the outlined treatment protocol is effective in minimizing tissue injury caused by intraarterial drug injection . institution of treatment within 24 hours of intraarterial drug injection is particularly important in patients who manifest severe ischemia . 
propagation of deep venous thrombosis identified by duplex ultrasonography . to investigate the efficacy of anticoagulation in preventing continuing thrombosis , we prospectively evaluated 24 patients with acute deep venous thrombosis using duplex ultrasonography . all patients were hospitalized with conclusive ultrasonic evidence of deep venous thrombosis identified in one of four levels : i , calf only ; ii , calf-popliteal ; iii , calf-popliteal-femoral ; or iv , calf-popliteal-femoral-iliac . duplex scans were obtained on admission and on three subsequent occasions during therapy . progression of thrombosis was defined as advancement of thrombus to the more proximal venous level . demographic data , symptoms , risk factors for deep venous thrombosis , physical findings , anticoagulation regimens , and hematologic variables were ascertained . adequacy of anticoagulation was defined as elevation of baseline activated partial thromboplastin time by 150 % . nine patients ( 38 % ) had progression of thrombosis , and 15 ( 62 % ) had stable or improving duplex scans . progression occurred as follows : i ---- ii ( 2 ) , i ---- iii ( 2 ) , ii ---- iii ( 1 ) , and iii ---- iv ( 4 ) . of the demographic and clinical variables examined , only smoking correlated with progression of thrombus ( p = 0.04 ) . average heparin dose in the stable group was 1214 + / - 294 units/hr and 1122 + / - 248 units/hr in the group that progressed ( p = 0.8 ) : activated partial thromboplastin time was 45.6 + / - 7 seconds in the stable group and 49.8 + / - 9 seconds in the progression group ( p = 0.7 ) . nine patients in the stable group had consistently adequate anticoagulation , whereas six did not ; six in the progression group were consistently anticoagulated , and three were not . two patients ( one with stable thrombus and one with progressive thrombus ) suffered nonfatal pulmonary emboli . clot progression as determined by duplex scanning did not predict acute complications of deep venous thrombosis . 
clinical spectrum of symptomatic external iliac fibromuscular dysplasia . external iliac fibromuscular dysplasia is a rare and usually asymptomatic disorder . we report eight symptomatic patients seen over a 15-year period and review pathophysiologic mechanisms accounting for the three following distinct lower extremity ischemic sequelae : ( 1 ) emboli -- episodic focal digital ischemia ( blue toe ) was seen in three patients . resection and primary anastomosis of focal iliac ulcerative fibromuscular dysplasia ( one patient ) or resection and replacement ( two patients ) removed the embolic source and relieved the symptoms . ( 2 ) chronic ischemia -- gradual onset of full leg claudication in four patients was treated by operative graduated intraluminal dilation in three patients and prosthetic bypass in one . arteriography subsequently showed a remodeled lumen in the three patients who underwent dilation . ( 3 ) dissection -- acute onset leg ischemia resulted from presumed dissection of the external iliac segment . after 4 months of conservative management of antiplatelet agents and exercise , symptoms resolved completely , and arteriogram showed spontaneous restoration of a normal lumen in the dissected segment . the clinical presentation of fibromuscular dysplasia may mimic other arterial processes such as atherosclerosis . diagnosis is made only by arteriography with specific magnification views of the external iliac arteries and careful surveillance of the renal arteries . appropriate treatment should be tailored to the clinical presenting symptom . for microembolic disease , resection and replacement are required . for chronic ischemia , intraluminal dilation is generally sufficient and durable and has proved to be a simpler and acceptable alternative to replacement or bypass . in acute dissection , surgical intervention may be deferred if the limb is viable to allow spontaneous healing and remodeling . persistent symptoms may be the only indication for intervention in this ischemic manifestation of external iliac fibromuscular dysplasia . 
initial clinical evaluation of carotid artery laser endarterectomy . clinical study of carotid artery laser endarterectomy began april 15 , 1988 . this report describes the first 10 cases that were performed in nine patients ( five men and four women , mean age 70 years ) . indications were asymptomatic stenosis ( 5 ) , transient ischemic attacks ( 4 ) , and stroke in evolution ( 1 ) . there were two emergency cases and eight elective cases ( including one reoperative case ) . surgical exposure , systemic heparinization , vascular control , and a longitudinal arteriotomy were used . the cleavage plane between atheromas and media was developed with argon ion laser radiation ( 488 and 514.5 nm ) directed through a 300 microns quartz fiber at power 1.0 w. laser radiation was used to cut the atheromas out of the arteries and weld the end points . residual atheromatous debris were vaporized with individual laser exposures . arteriotomies were closed with sutures , and blood flow was restored . the endarterectomies were 3.9 + / - 1.1 cm long and required 330 + / - 97 joules . mean clamp time was 22.5 + / - 7.9 minutes . shunts were used in two cases . there were no arterial perforations or injuries as a result of laser light . complications were hematoma ( 1 ) , respiratory arrest ( 1 ) , and transient neurologic deficit ( 1 ) . carotid endarterectomy is technically feasible with argon ion laser radiation . in the present series , postoperative observations , averaging 12 months and ranging from 5 to 19 months , have shown satisfactory results . no angiographic follow-up examinations were carried out . 
changes in quality of care for five diseases measured by implicit review , 1981 to 1986 we measured quality of care before and after implementation of the prospective payment system . we developed a structured implicit review form and applied it to a sample of 1366 medicare patients with congestive heart failure , acute myocardial infarction , pneumonia , cerebrovascular accident , or hip fracture who were hospitalized in 1981-1982 or 1985-1986 . very poor quality of care was associated with increased death rates 30 days after admission ( 17 % with very good care died vs 30 % with very poor care ) . the quality of medical care improved between 1981-1982 and 1985-1986 ( from 25 % receiving poor or very poor care to 12 % ) , although more patients were judged to have been discharged too soon and in unstable condition ( 7 % vs 4 % ) . except for discharge planning processes , the quality of hospital care has continued to improve for medicare patients despite , or because of , the introduction of the prospective payment system with its accompanying professional review organization review . 
does age affect outcomes of out-of-hospital cardiopulmonary resuscitation ? we examined the relation between age and outcomes in patients treated for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in seattle , wash . considering all out-of-hospital cardiac arrests treated by paramedics over a recent 5-year period , 386 ( 27 % ) of 1405 consecutive patients aged 70 years or older were resuscitated and admitted to a hospital vs 474 ( 29 % ) of 1624 younger patients ; 140 elderly patients ( 10 % ) were discharged alive vs 223 younger patients ( 14 % ) . of the 140 elderly patients , 112 went home and 28 went to a nursing home . considering only patients whose initial rhythms were ventricular fibrillation , the percent of patients discharged alive was substantially higher : 120 ( 24 % ) of 493 for elderly patients and 194 ( 30 % ) of 639 for younger patients . elderly patients can benefit from attempted resuscitation from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest . 
caffeine and ventricular arrhythmias . an electrophysiological approach . little information is known regarding caffeine 's effect on the substrate supporting sustained ventricular arrhythmias . this prospective study evaluated the effect of coffee ( 275 mg of caffeine ) on this substrate with programmed ventricular stimulation in 22 patients with a history of symptomatic nonsustained ventricular tachycardia , ventricular tachycardia , or ventricular fibrillation . patients underwent electrophysiological testing before and 1 hour after coffee ingestion . mean ( + / - sem ) plasma caffeine level achieved after coffee consumption was 6.2 + / - 0.5 mg/l . mean plasma catecholamine and potassium values were not altered significantly 1 hour following caffeine ingestion . the number of extrastimuli required to induce an arrhythmia was unchanged in 10 patients ( 46 % ) , increased in six ( 27 % ) , and decreased in six ( 27 % ) . rhythm severity was unchanged in 17 patients ( 77 % ) , more severe in two ( 9 % ) , and less severe in three ( 14 % ) . in those patients with clinical ventricular arrhythmias , caffeine did not significantly alter inducibility or severity of arrhythmias , suggesting little effect on the substrate supporting ventricular arrhythmias . 
symptomatic pericardial effusion in lung cancer patients : the role of fluid cytology . during the years 1975-1988 , twenty lung cancer patients with symptomatic pericardial effusion were treated conservatively at our center . echocardiography demonstrated small pericardial effusion in 2 patients , medium size effusion in 3 patients and large amount of fluid in 15 patients . fifteen patients developed cardiac tamponade ; in three of these patients , this was the presenting manifestation of lung cancer . pericardiocentesis resulted in prompt , though temporary , symptomatic relief in all patients . fluid cytology demonstrated suspected malignant cells in 2 patients and malignant cells in 13 patients . based on cytology , the diagnosis of adenocarcinoma was established in six patients , small cell carcinoma in three patients , and epidermoid carcinoma in one patient . all patients were dead within 9 months from the time of diagnosis of pericardial effusion ; 17 died within less than 3 months . it is concluded that pericardial effusion in lung cancer is indicative of rapid tumor progression and short survival . fluid cytology provides an immediate and accurate means of diagnosis . 
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for the circulatory support of children after repair of congenital heart disease . we have treated 39 infants and children with congenital heart disease with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation during the past 5 years . thirty-six were treated for low cardiac output or pulmonary vasoreactive crisis after repair of congenital heart defects . twenty-two ( 61 % ) survived . most patients were cannulated from the neck via the right internal jugular vein and the right common carotid artery . six patients were cannulated from the chest , including three who had separate drainage of the left side of the heart with a left atrial cannula . two of these patients survived and were the only survivors of the nine patients cannulated in the operating room because they could not be weaned from cardiopulmonary bypass after open cardiac operations . we also reviewed 312 patients ( the predictor study series ) having open cardiac operations before the availability of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ; 27 of these patients died . data were collected at 1 and 8 hours postoperatively to determine if any parameters might predict early mortality . with these parameters used as criteria , patients who went on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation were as sick as those who died before extracorporeal membrane oxygenation was available . the most common complication was bleeding related to heparinization . the mean transfusion requirement in survivors was 1.50 + / - 1.13 ml/kg/hr , 5.63 + / - 7.0 ml/kg/hr in the nonsurvivors , and 7.46 + / - 8.29 ml/kg/hr in those cannulated in the operating room because they could not be weaned from bypass . four children had intracranial hemorrhage , and two of them died . there was one late death . nine of the 22 survivors are entirely normal . all survivors who do not have down 's syndrome are considered to have normal central nervous system function . we conclude that extracorporeal membrane oxygenation can improve survival in patients with both pulmonary artery hypertension and low cardiac output after operations for congenital heart disease . 
accelerated transmural gradients of energy compound metabolism resulting from left ventricular hypertrophy . eighteen dogs underwent transmural left ventricular biopsies for adenosine triphosphate and suturing of the noncoronary cusp , creating valvular aortic stenosis . three months after aortic stenosis and the subsequent development of left ventricular hypertrophy , animals underwent repeat transmural left ventricular biopsies followed by total myocardial ischemia at 37 degrees c. left ventricular tissue samples for adenosine triphosphate and lactate levels were determined at 15-minute intervals and compared with 15 control animals . no significant difference between subendocardial and subepicardial adenosine triphosphate levels was found between left ventricular samples taken before left ventricular hypertrophy and 3 months after left ventricular hypertrophy . significant differences in adenosine triphosphate utilization occurred between subendocardial and subepicardial layers in control and left ventricular hypertrophy myocardium , however . the gradient between the subendocardium and the subepicardium was significantly increased by left ventricular hypertrophy ( p less than 0.05 ) . significant differences also occurred within the same layer when left ventricular hypertrophy and control groups were compared . during total ischemia , lactate concentration was significantly greater within the subendocardium than within the subepicardium in left ventricular hypertrophy . the onset of ischemic contracture was 48.2 + / - 2.1 minutes in left ventricular hypertrophy versus 62.3 + / - 1.8 minutes in control hearts ( p less than 0.01 ) . subendocardial intramyocardial pressure increased significantly earlier than subepicardial in both left ventricular hypertrophy and control hearts . adenosine triphosphate was used , and lactate accumulated more rapidly in animals with a more pronounced hemodynamic gradient . these data show that after left ventricular hypertrophy , adenosine triphosphate stores in the subendocardium and the subepicardium are unchanged from control values , yet the rates of adenosine triphosphate utilization and lactate accumulation during total ischemia are significantly increased . furthermore , the subendocardial to subepicardial gradient of adenosine triphosphate utilization during ischemia found in normal hearts is markedly increased by left ventricular hypertrophy . 
the influence of extracorporeal circulation on erythrocytes and flow properties of blood . the influence of extracorporeal circulation on red blood cells and flow properties of blood was studied in 10 patients undergoing aorta-coronary bypass grafting . blood samples were drawn on admission , under general anesthesia before the operation , during extracorporeal circulation , immediately after extracorporeal circulation , and 24 hours after extracorporeal circulation . echinocytes were found during and shortly after extracorporeal circulation , but disappeared within 24 hours . washing the cells in buffer restored the normal discocytic shape , which indicated that a plasma factor was responsible . red cell membrane lipids were not affected . analysis of the membrane proteins revealed a decrease of ankyrin after extracorporeal circulation , which was prevented by protease inhibitors during preparation . this suggests an increased proteolytic activity of the plasma after extracorporeal circulation . red cell deformability was not altered . plasma viscosity and hematocrit were markedly reduced by hemodilution with the priming solution . their low levels resulted in a low blood viscosity during extracorporeal circulation , which was even lower at 26 degrees c than before or after the operation at 37 degrees c. we conclude that the red cell is affected by extracorporeal circulation . the flow properties of blood , however , are not impaired , but are improved by hemodilution . 
prostacyclin and prostaglandin e2 mediate reduction of increased mean arterial pressure during cardiopulmonary bypass by aspiration of shed pulmonary venous blood . increased mean arterial pressure during the aortic crossclamp period while on cardiopulmonary bypass was usually treated by us with hypotensive drugs . we noticed , however , that aspirating shed excess pulmonary venous blood from the open pleural cavities causes an immediate reduction in mean arterial pressure , obviating the need for any further pharmaceutical intervention . in this study we investigated the relationship between the reduction in mean arterial pressure and the levels of prostacyclin and prostaglandin e2 in the peripheral and pulmonary venous blood . ten men undergoing coronary bypass operations had 21 episodes of increased mean arterial pressure ( 106.9 + / - 11.4 mm hg ) during aortic crossclamping , which was reduced to 67.4 + / - 11.4 mm hg ( p less than 0.001 ) only by aspirating a mean of 490 ml ( range 150 to 1100 ml ) of pulmonary venous blood from the pleurae back into the circulation . mean peripheral prostacyclin level , measured as 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha , and prostaglandin e2 level , both measured by radioimmunoassay technique , were significantly lower at peak mean arterial pressure ( 419 + / - 180 and 59.5 + / - 21.2 pg/ml ) than at lowest mean arterial pressure ( 632 + / - 271 and 96.7 + / - 52.4 pg/ml for 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha and prostaglandin e2 , respectively ; p less than 0.001 ) . prostaglandin f1 alpha and prostaglandin e2 levels in the aspirated pulmonary venous blood were 2309 + / - 3098 pg/ml and 749 + / - 909 pg/ml , respectively . the hypotensive effect of shed pulmonary venous blood that is aspirated back from the pleurae into the circulation seems to be mediated by the high levels of prostacyclin and prostaglandin e2 , both powerful vasodilators . 
myocardial temperature during cardiac operations : influence on right ventricular function . maintenance of right heart integrity is frequently neglected during coronary operations . right ventricular dysfunction sometimes limits the success of the surgical procedure , however . in addition to the use of cardioplegic solutions , myocardial hypothermia during ischemic cardiac arrest seems to be an important factor for guaranteeing right ventricular performance thereafter . this study was designed to measure myocardial temperature in patients with coronary artery disease who have significant stenosis of the right coronary artery in comparison with those who do not have stenosis of the right coronary artery and to evaluate the influence of myocardial temperature on right ventricular hemodynamics after cardiopulmonary bypass . right ventricular function was assessed by thermodilution technique , which allows measurement of right ventricular ejection fraction , right ventricular end-diastolic volume , and right ventricular end-systolic volume . right ventricular temperature differed significantly between the two groups , with the lowest value of 15.1 degrees + / - 1.8 degrees c in the group without stenosis of the right coronary artery and a value of 22.2 degrees + / - 2.1 degrees c in the group with stenosis of the right coronary artery . left ventricular and septal temperatures were without group differences within the investigation period . right ventricular hemodynamics were impaired only in the group with stenosis of the right coronary artery with a decrease in right ventricular ejection fraction from 44.2 % to 34.1 % immediately after termination of bypass and an increase in right ventricular end-diastolic volume index ( +38 % ) and right ventricular end-systolic volume index ( +70 % ) . cardiac index decreased only in this group , too ( -22.5 % ) . analysis of covariance revealed a significant correlation only between changes in right ventricular ejection fraction , right ventricular end-diastolic volume , and right ventricular end-systolic volume and the course of right myocardial temperature . it is concluded that right ventricular hypothermia is more difficult to achieve in patients with a diseased right coronary artery . constant myocardial hypothermia , however , seems to be important in guaranteeing right ventricular function , which easily can be evaluated by the thermodilution technique . 
intraoperative coronary artery endarterectomy with excimer laser . compared with continuous-wave lasers , excimer lasers exhibit several in vitro advantages : nonthermal ablation process and linear relation between the number of pulses and the depth of the crater . a 308 nm , 20 nsec pulse duration , 1 to 5 repetition rate laser was specifically designed for clinical application . at the time of cardiopulmonary bypass in 10 symptomatic patients , before bypass grafting , a 1 mm diameter core specifically ultraviolet-tipped fiberoptic scope was introduced via the coronary arteriotomy and placed upstream ( seven patients ) and downstream ( three patients ) in contact with the stenosis . laser power was increasingly delivered up to the clearing of the stenosis or occlusion . quality of angioplasty was controlled by calibration of the neolumen , cardioplegic solution output through the laser-treated segment , and an eighth day or sixth month coronary arteriogram . in the first three patients studied on the eighth day , all laser-treated coronary artery segments showed an early parallel-linked patent neolumen despite competitive bypass graft flow . in the patients studied after 6 months , all recanalized segments were patent except one ; in one patient the venous graft was occluded , but the upstream laser angioplasty was patent . the main limitation of the method lies in the fact that laser coronary recanalization is confined to the fiber core diameter . we conclude that ( 1 ) excimer laser angioplasty may be safe and efficient during surgical procedure and ( 2 ) as catheter flexibility remains the most critical problem , we are now assuming an appropriate tool with a multifiber system that is suitable for intraoperative as well as percutaneous routes . 
risk of myocardial infarction and death during treatment with low dose aspirin and intravenous heparin in men with unstable coronary artery disease . the risc group 796 men with unstable coronary artery disease ( unstable angina or non-q-wave myocardial infarction [ mi ] ) , were randomised to double-blind placebo-controlled treatment with oral aspirin 75 mg/day and/or 5 days of intermittent intravenous heparin . the risk of mi and death was reduced by aspirin . after 5 days the risk ratio was 0.43 ( confidence intervals , 0.21-0 .91 ) , at 1 month 0.31 ( 0.18-0 .53 ) , and at 3 months 0.36 ( 0.23-0 .57 ) . aspirin reduced event rate in non-q-wave mi and unstable angina , independently of electrocardiographic abnormalities or concurrent drug therapy . heparin had no significant influence on event rate , although the group treated with aspirin and heparin had the lowest number of events during the initial 5 days . treatment had few side-effects and high patient compliance . 
perforin-mediated myocardial damage in acute myocarditis . endomyocardial specimens were obtained from 7 patients with acute myocarditis . immunohistochemical examination of the mononuclear infiltrate showed mainly cytotoxic t lymphocytes and natural killer cells . perforin ( a pore-forming protein found in cytotoxic lymphocytes ) was identified in this myocardial lymphocytic infiltrate and electron microscopy showed myocardial cell damage that may have been associated with these perforin containing lymphocytes . the results indicate that in acute idiopathic and viral myocarditis , myocardial damage may be due to the action of perforin-secreting lymphocytes . 
coffee , caffeine , and cardiovascular disease in men background . for many years , an association between coffee consumption and the risk of coronary heart disease has been suspected . although based on small numbers of end points , a prospective study has suggested a particularly strong association between recent coffee drinking and the incidence of cardiovascular disease . methods . we examined prospectively the relation of coffee consumption with the risk of myocardial infarction , need for coronary-artery bypass grafting or angioplasty , and risk of stroke in a cohort of 45,589 u.s. men who were 40 to 75 years old in 1986 and who had no history of cardiovascular disease . results . during two years of follow-up observation , 221 participants had a nonfatal myocardial infarction or died of coronary heart disease , 136 underwent coronary-artery surgery or angioplasty , and 54 had a stroke . total coffee consumption was not associated with an increased risk of coronary heart disease or stroke . the age-adjusted relative risk for all cardiovascular disease among participants who drank four or more cups of coffee per day was 1.04 ( 95 percent confidence intervals , 0.74 to 1.46 ) . increasing levels of consumption of caffeinated coffee were not associated with higher risks of cardiovascular disease . higher consumption of decaffeinated coffee , however , was associated with a marginally significant increase in the risk of coronary heart disease ( relative risk , 1.63 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 1.02 to 2.60 ) . finally , we observed no pattern of increased risk across the subgroups of participants with increasing intakes of caffeine from all sources . adjustment for major cardiovascular-risk indicators , dietary intake of fats , and cholesterol intake did not materially alter these associations . conclusions . these findings do not support the hypothesis that coffee or caffeine consumption increases the risk of coronary heart disease or stroke . 
the diagnosis and prognosis of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease . background . autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease is usually caused by a mutant gene at the pkd1 locus on the short arm of chromosome 16 , but in about 4 percent of families with the disorder it is caused by unknown mutations elsewhere in the genome . the natural course of the disease in both genetic forms is not well characterized . methods . we studied 17 families with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease to compare presymptomatic diagnosis by ultrasonography with diagnosis by genetic-linkage studies and to relate clinical variation of the disease to whether the pkd1 mutation was implicated . results . in 10 families the disorder was found to cosegregate with polymorphic dna markers flanking the pkd1 locus , in 2 families it did not , and in 5 families linkage could not be determined . in the 10 families with the pkd1 mutation , 46 percent of the members less than 30 years old who had a 50 percent risk of inheriting a mutation had renal cysts , as compared with 11 percent of the members of the two families without linkage ( p less than 0.001 ) . in the pkd1 families , all 67 diagnoses made by ultrasonography were confirmed by determination of the genotype as inferred from linkage . forty of 48 members ( 83 percent ) less than 30 years old who inherited the pkd1 mutation had renal cysts . all 27 members 30 years old or older who inherited the mutation had renal cysts , suggesting that the probability of a false negative diagnosis did not exceed 0.13 in this age group ( p less than 0.05 ) . the mean ( + / - se ) age at the onset of end-stage renal disease among members of the pkd1 families was 56.7 + / - 1.9 years , as compared with 69.4 + / - 1.7 years among members with cysts in the families without linkage ( p = 0.0025 ) . hypertension and renal impairment were less frequent and occurred later in the families without the pkd1 mutation . conclusions . at present , in most persons with a 50 percent risk of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease , imaging techniques are the only mode of reaching a diagnosis before symptoms appear . in such persons a negative ultrasonographic study during early adult life indicates that the likelihood of inheriting a pkd1 mutation is small . in the few who inherit a non-pkd1 mutation for polycystic kidney disease , renal failure is likely to occur relatively late in life . 
the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system and autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease background . a high incidence of hypertension ( 50 to 75 percent ) occurs early in the course of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease . cyst enlargement , causing bilateral renal ischemia and subsequent release of renin , is proposed as the cause of this form of hypertension . methods . to investigate this hypothesis , we measured plasma renin activity and aldosterone concentrations during short-term and long-term converting-enzyme inhibition in 14 patients with hypertension due to polycystic kidney disease , 9 patients with essential hypertension , 11 normotensive patients with polycystic kidney disease , and 13 normal subjects . the groups were comparable with respect to age , sex , body-surface area , degree of hypertension , sodium excretion , and renal function . results . during the short-term study , the mean ( + / - se ) plasma renin activity was significantly higher in the hypertensive patients with polycystic kidney disease than in the patients with essential hypertension , in the supine ( 0.36 + / - 0.06 vs. 0.22 + / - 0.06 ng per liter.second , p = 0.05 ) and upright positions ( 1.03 + / - 0.14 vs. 0.61 + / - 0.08 ng per liter.second , p less than 0.03 ) and after converting-enzyme inhibition ( 1.97 + / - 0.28 vs. 0.67 + / - 0.17 ng per liter.second , p less than 0.0006 ) . the mean arterial pressures measured in the supine and upright positions and the plasma aldosterone concentrations measured in the upright position were significantly higher in the normotensive patients with polycystic kidney disease than in the normal subjects . after six weeks of converting-enzyme inhibition , renal plasma flow increased ( p less than 0.005 ) , and both renal vascular resistance ( p less than 0.007 ) and the filtration fraction ( p less than 0.02 ) decreased significantly in the hypertensive patients with polycystic kidney disease but not in the patients with essential hypertension . conclusions . the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system is stimulated significantly more in hypertensive patients with polycystic kidney disease than in comparable patients with essential hypertension . the increased renin release , perhaps due to renal ischemia caused by cyst expansion , probably contributes to the early development of hypertension in polycystic kidney disease . 
predicting the appropriate use of carotid endarterectomy , upper gastrointestinal endoscopy , and coronary angiography background and methods . in a nationally representative population 65 years of age or older , we have demonstrated that about one quarter of coronary angiographies and upper gastrointestinal endoscopies and two thirds of carotid endarterectomies were performed for reasons that were less than medically appropriate . in this paper we examine whether specific characteristics of patients ( age , sex , and race ) , physicians ( age , board-certification status , and experience with the procedure ) , or hospitals ( teaching status , profit-making status , and size ) predict whether a procedure will be performed appropriately . results . in general , we found that little of the variability in the appropriateness of care ( 4 percent or less ) could be explained on the basis of standard , easily obtainable data about the patient , the physician , or the hospital . for all three procedures , however , performance in a teaching hospital increased the likelihood that the reasons would be medically appropriate ( p = 0.09 for angiography , p = 0.30 for endoscopy , and p less than 0.01 for endarterectomy ) . in addition , angiographies were more often performed for appropriate reasons in older or more affluent patients ( p less than 0.01 for both ) . being treated by a surgeon who performed a high rather than a low number of procedures decreased the likelihood of an appropriate endarterectomy by one third , from 40 to 28 percent ( p less than 0.01 ) . conclusions . appropriateness of care can not be closely predicted from many easily determined characteristics of patients , physicians , or hospitals . thus , for the present , if appropriateness is to be improved it will have to be assessed directly at the level of each patient , hospital , and physician . 
regression of coronary artery disease as a result of intensive lipid-lowering therapy in men with high levels of apolipoprotein b background and methods . the effect of intensive lipid-lowering therapy on coronary atherosclerosis among men at high risk for cardiovascular events was assessed by quantitative arteriography . of 146 men no more than 62 years of age who had apolipoprotein b levels greater than or equal to 125 mg per deciliter , documented coronary artery disease , and a family history of vascular disease , 120 completed the 2 1/2 - year double-blind study , which included arteriography at base line and after treatment . patients were given dietary counseling and were randomly assigned to one of three treatments : lovastatin ( 20 mg twice a day ) and colestipol ( 10 g three times a day ) ; niacin ( 1 g four times a day ) and colestipol ( 10 g three times a day ) ; or conventional therapy with placebo ( or colestipol if the low-density lipoprotein [ ldl ] cholesterol level was elevated ) . results . the levels of ldl and high-density lipoprotein ( hdl ) cholesterol changed only slightly in the conventional-therapy group ( mean changes , -7 and +5 percent , respectively ) , but more substantially among patients treated with lovastatin and colestipol ( -46 and +15 percent ) or niacin and colestipol ( -32 and +43 percent ) . in the conventional-therapy group , 46 percent of the patients had definite lesion progression ( and no regression ) in at least one of nine proximal coronary segments ; regression was the only change in 11 percent . by comparison , progression ( as the only change ) was less frequent among patients who received lovastatin and colestipol ( 21 percent ) and those who received niacin and colestipol ( 25 percent ) , and regression was more frequent ( lovastatin and colestipol , 32 percent ; niacin and colestipol , 39 percent ; p less than 0.005 ) . multivariate analysis indicated that a reduction in the level of apolipoprotein b ( or ldl cholesterol ) and in systolic blood pressure , and an increase in hdl cholesterol correlated independently with regression of coronary lesions . clinical events ( death , myocardial infarction , or revascularization for worsening symptoms ) occurred in 10 of 52 patients assigned to conventional therapy , as compared with 3 of 46 assigned to receive lovastatin and colestipol and 2 of 48 assigned to receive niacin and colestipol ( relative risk of an event during intensive treatment , 0.27 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 0.10 to 0.77 ) . conclusions . in men with coronary artery disease who were at high risk for cardiovascular events , intensive lipid-lowering therapy reduced the frequency of progression of coronary lesions , increased the frequency of regression , and reduced the incidence of cardiovascular events . 
chinese-white differences in the distribution of occlusive cerebrovascular disease . the distribution of cerebrovascular lesions is affected by race . blacks and japanese have more intracranial occlusive cerebrovascular disease , while whites have more extracranial disease . despite a high incidence of stroke in china , there are few formal studies of the distribution of vascular occlusive disease in chinese populations . we compared clinical and angiographic features of 24 white and 24 chinese patients with symptomatic occlusive cerebrovascular disease . in symptomatic vascular territories , whites had more severe ( greater than or equal to 50 % stenosis ) extracranial lesions , while chinese had more severe intracranial lesions . when we counted mild and severe lesions in a symptomatic territory , whites had more extracranial lesions while chinese had more intracranial lesions . when we combined symptomatic and asymptomatic territories , whites had more extracranial lesions , while chinese had more intracranial lesions . white patients reported more transient ischemic attacks . the distribution of lesions , however , was not explained by differences in incidence of transient ischemia , hypertension , diabetes , hypercholesterolemia , or ischemic heart disease between the groups . the preponderance of intracranial vascular lesions in chinese patients is similar to that seen in blacks and japanese . racial differences in the occurrence of extracranial and intracranial lesions raise the possibility of a different underlying pathophysiology for the 2 locations . 
low-dose aspirin does not influence the clinical course of women with mild pregnancy-induced hypertension . the effect of low doses of aspirin on women with mild pregnancy-induced hypertension was investigated by means of a prospective , randomized , double-blind trial . forty-seven women hospitalized at 30-36 weeks ' gestation because of mild pregnancy-induced hypertension were treated by a daily dose of either 100 mg aspirin or placebo . the mean blood pressure values , rates of development of severe preeclampsia , gestational ages at delivery , newborn weights , and 5-minute apgar scores were similar in the aspirin-treated and the placebo-treated groups . we conclude that low-dose aspirin is not curative but is essentially a preventive treatment which , in order to be effective , should be started weeks before clinical signs of preeclampsia are present . 
giant-cell arteritis of the uterus with associated temporal arteritis : a case report . giant-cell arteritis involving the uterus was identified incidentally upon hysterectomy and anterior colporrhaphy for uterine prolapse . subsequently , the patient was found to have giant-cell temporal arteritis presenting with fever of unknown origin . fourteen previous cases involving the female genital tract have been reported . there appears to be an association between constitutional symptoms of fever , weight loss , malaise , headache , and polymyalgia rheumatica in elderly women with uterine prolapse and giant-cell arteritis of the genital tract . the rare presentation of giant-cell arteritis in the female genital tract does not support invasive costly evaluation in asymptomatic patients . however , a thorough investigation for involvement of other sites , including appropriate treatment for generalized disease , should be undertaken . 
ascites not due to congestive heart failure in a fetus with lupus-induced heart block . hydrops developing in fetuses with lupus-associated heart block has usually been assumed to result from congestive heart failure . we present a case in which fetal ascites associated with complete heart block resolved promptly after administration of betamethasone and prednisone to the mother , who had anti-ssa and who developed clinical lupus erythematosus . this resolution occurred with no demonstrable change in fetal cardiac function . we conclude that an immune mechanism , rather than congestive heart failure , was responsible for the fetal ascites . 
use of magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of cortical blindness in pregnancy . magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) may be helpful in the assessment of eclampsia and preeclampsia with central nervous system symptomatology such as cortical blindness . we describe a rare case of complete binocular blindness postpartum with no other neurologic deficits , in which mri abnormalities were undetected on computed tomography . the better soft-tissue discrimination of mri may visualize important but subtle lesions which ultimately may help to explain the underlying pathophysiologic mechanism in such cases . 
infant survival following delayed postmortem cesarean delivery . a 19-year-old multipara was delivered of a living infant by postmortem cesarean 22 minutes after documented maternal cardiac arrest and 47 minutes from the fatal injury . neonatal follow-up at 18 months of age demonstrated no evidence of neurologic damage . 
dental extraction for patients on oral anticoagulant therapy . dental extraction in patients receiving long-term oral anticoagulant therapy is a controversial issue . continuation of anticoagulation exposes the patient to serious hemorrhage , whereas cessation of therapy increases the risk of thromboembolism . forty patients treated by coumarin underwent 63 tooth extractions , without a change in the therapeutic protocol of anticoagulation . the biologic adhesive beriplast was used successfully to achieve local hemostasis at the site of the surgical wound . apart from one patient who had mild oozing , there were no incidences of postsurgical hemorrhage . 
initial evaluation of heart murmurs : are laboratory tests necessary ? heart murmurs , most of them innocent , are the most common reason for referrals to a pediatric cardiologist . in the evaluation of murmurs , the electrocardiogram and echocardiogram are often included . the purpose of this study was to determine the utility of these examinations in the initial assessment of heart murmurs in children and adolescents . in a prospective series of 161 patients , the clinical diagnosis of heart murmurs by a pediatric cardiologist was compared with that obtained after electrocardiogram and echocardiogram ( two-dimensional , m-mode , doppler , and color-doppler ) . on the basis of the clinical diagnosis the patients were classified as having " innocent murmur , " " pathologic murmur , " or " possible pathologic murmur . " a total of 161 patients ( 51 % males ) , aged 1 month to 17 years ( median 3.2 years ) , were studied . after electrocardiogram , no diagnosis was changed . after echocardiogram , the clinical diagnosis of innocent murmur in 109 patients changed in 2 to pathologic ( small ventricular septal defect 1 , small atrial septal defect 1 ) ; pathologic murmur in 46 changed to innocent in 3 and possible pathologic in 2 ; and possible pathologic in 6 changed to innocent in 3 and to pathologic in 2 . the clinical examination by an experienced pediatric cardiologist is an accurate means of assessing newly referred patients with murmurs . the clinical examination had a sensitivity of 96 % , specificity of 95 % , positive predictive value of 88 % , and negative predictive value of 98 % . the electrocardiogram , unlikely to disclose any unsuspected heart disease , may assist in reaching the lesion-specific diagnosis when there is underlying pathology . echocardiography , although diagnostic when heart disease is suspected , is unnecessary in pediatric patients with clinically diagnosed innocent heart murmurs . 
phenobarbital and cerebral blood flow during hypertension in the newborn beagle . phenobarbital sodium has been used in anticonvulsant concentrations ( 15 to 40 micrograms/ml serum ) in premature newborns in attempts to prevent periventricular and intraventricular hemorrhages . although its clinical usefulness in this regard is controversial , phenobarbital treatment has been shown to reduce periventricular and intraventricular hemorrhages after hypertensive insult in newborn beagles . in this study cerebral blood flow values in steady state and during phenylephrine-induced hypertension with and without phenobarbital pretreatment were measured in newborn beagles . at anticonvulsant dosage , phenobarbital sodium decreased mean arterial blood pressure transiently during steady state and significantly reduced total cerebral blood flow during phenylephrine-induced hypertension without reducing mean arterial blood pressure . this phenobarbital sodium effect on cerebral blood flow was not as great in the presence of acidosis , and the initial hypotensive effect of phenobarbital sodium was sustained for a longer period of time during acidosis . phenobarbital sodium may reduce the incidence of hemorrhages in the newborn brain by providing protection against isolated hemodynamic stresses characterized by acute increases in cerebral blood flow , with or without increased mean arterial blood pressure . 
outcome and predictors of outcome in pediatric submersion victims receiving prehospital care in king county , washington predictors of outcome in pediatric submersion victims treated by seattle and king county 's prehospital emergency services were studied . victims less than 20 years old were identified from hospital admissions and paramedic and medical examiners ' reports . the proportion of fatal or severe outcomes in patients were compared with various risk factors . of 135 patients , 45 died and 5 had severe neurologic impairment . a subset of 38 victims found in cardiopulmonary arrest had a 32 % survival rate , with 67 % of survivors unimpaired or only mildly impaired . the two risk factors that occurred most commonly in victims who died or were severely impaired were submersion duration greater than 9 minutes ( 28 patients ) and cardiopulmonary resuscitation duration longer than 25 minutes ( 20 patients ) . both factors were ascertained in the prehospital phase of care . submersion duration was associated with a steadily increasing risk of severe or fatal outcomes : 10 % risk ( 7/67 ) for 0 to 5 minutes , 56 % risk ( 5/9 ) for 6 to 9 minutes , 88 % risk ( 21/25 ) for 10 to 25 minutes , 100 % risk ( 4/4 ) for greater than 25 minutes . none of 20 children receiving greater than 25 minutes of cardiopulmonary resuscitation escaped death or severe neurologic impairment . our rates for saving all victims , particularly victims in cardiopulmonary arrest , are considerably higher than has been reported before the children . prompt prehospital advanced cardiac life support is the most effective means of medical intervention for the pediatric submersion victim . prehospital information provided the most valuable predictors of outcome . 
chest pain in teenagers . when is it significant ? chest pain in teenagers often has no obvious organic cause . onset of symptoms with an emotionally stressful situation may indicate psychogenic chest pain . the differential diagnosis also includes cardiac , musculoskeletal , gastrointestinal , and respiratory disorders . routine testing generally does not help to establish a diagnosis and may even do harm by reinforcing a patient 's unspoken fear of serious illness . most teenagers with chest pain have no such illness , and symptoms usually resolve without therapy . an important role for primary care physicians is to provide support during evaluation and follow-up . 
histologic investigation of vascular malformations of the face after transarterial embolization with ethibloc and other agents . twenty-one vascular malformations located in the facial area , 11 high-flow arteriovenous malformations and 10 slow-flow malformations , underwent combined treatment by embolization and later surgery . embolization was performed simultaneously with superselective angiography of the branches of the external carotid artery . the new biodegradable fibrosing agent ethibloc was used in 16 cases . histologic examination of the surgical specimens confirmed the good target orientation by the transarterial injection of ethibloc . limitations of this technique are discussed . the agent proved to have thrombogenic and fibrogenic properties . some of the vascular walls degenerated and ruptured following the embolization , but there were no instances of necrosis of interstitial tissue or skin . embolization treatment of vascular malformations of the face was not curative , but it facilitated subsequent surgery in all examined cases . 
surgical augmentation of skin blood flow and viability in a pig musculocutaneous flap model . a porcine rectus abdominis musculocutaneous ( tram ) flap model was designed and validated in nine pigs . this tram flap was based on the deep inferior epigastric ( die ) vessels with an 8 x 18 cm transverse skin paddle at the superior end of the rectus abdominis muscle . the model was subsequently used to test our hypothesis of surgical augmentation of flap viability by vascular territory expansion . specifically , we observed that ligation of the superior epigastric ( se ) vessels at 4 , 7 , 14 , and 28 days ( n = 6 to 8 ) prior to raising the tram flaps significantly increased ( p less than 0.05 ) the length and area of the viable skin in the transverse skin paddles of the treatment flaps compared with the contralateral shammanipulated control flaps . this significant increase in skin viability was seen to be accompanied by a significant increase ( p less than 0.05 ) in skin and muscle capillary blood flow in the treatment tram flaps compared with the controls ( n = 9 ) . the mechanism of vascular territory expansion is unclear . we postulate that hypoxia resulting from the ligation of the superior epigastric vessels prior to the flap surgery may play a role in the triggering of the deep inferior epigastric artery to take over some of the territory previously perfused by the superior epigastric artery . this would then increase the skin and muscle capillary blood flow in the transverse paddle when the tram flap was raised on the deep inferior epigastric vascular pedicle . 
critical ischemia times and survival patterns of experimental pig flaps . previous work on critical ischemia time suggested ( 1 ) a greater susceptibility of myocutaneous flaps over skin flaps to the ischemia reperfusion injury and ( 2 ) that duration of ischemia may affect the survival area of a flap . using a pig model , 55 animals were operated on and the critical ischemia times and survival patterns of the buttock skin ( n = 85 ) and latissimus dorsi myocutaneous ( n = 88 ) island flaps were determined after being submitted to 0 , 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 , 10 , 12 , 14 , and 16 hours of normothermic ischemia . the average critical ischemia times ( cit50 ) were determined to be 9 and 10 hours for the buttock skin and latissimus dorsi myocutaneous flaps , respectively . percentage of total area surviving ( % tas ) in those flaps which did survive was adversely affected by increases in the ischemic interval in both flap models . a statistically significant decrease in percentage of total area surviving was found after 6 and 8 hours of ischemia for the buttock skin and latissimus dorsi myocutaneous flaps , respectively . 
the cutaneous manifestations in children with familial mediterranean fever ( recurrent hereditary polyserositis ) . a six-year study . in a six-year study of 46 children with familial mediterranean fever ( recurrent hereditary polyserositis ) , 20 children ( 43 per cent ) developed cutaneous manifestations . ten children had 18 episodes of erysipelas-like erythema which proved to be specific for the disease . twelve children ( 26 per cent ) had 31 episodes of non-specific purpuric rash and six children ( 13 per cent ) had nine episodes of henoch-schonlein purpura . other manifestations included diffuse erythema of the face , and/or trunk , angioneurotic oedema , diffuse erythema of the palms and soles followed by mild desquamation of the skin , raynaud 's phenomenon and a subcutaneous nodule . the mean frequency of the cutaneous lesions was 1.6 / patient/year before colchicine therapy and 0.4 / patient/year after colchicine therapy ( p = 0.0005 ) . the high incidence of cutaneous manifestations and their response to colchicine strongly suggest that skin involvement is an integral part familial mediterranean fever . 
clinical , autonomic and therapeutic observations in two siblings with postural hypotension and sympathetic failure due to an inability to synthesize noradrenaline from dopamine because of a deficiency of dopamine beta hydroxylase . a brother and sister with long-standing symptoms of postural hypotension are described . they were considerably worse in the morning , after exercise and in warm weather . in the male , erection was unaffected but ejaculation was prolonged or absent . both had nocturia , but there were no urinary bladder , bowel or sweating abnormalities . autonomic function tests confirmed sympathetic adrenergic failure with spared sympathetic cholinergic and intact parasympathetic function . there were no other neurological abnormalities . noradrenaline and adrenaline were undetectable in the plasma , but plasma dopamine was elevated . urinary levels of noradrenaline and adrenaline metabolites were below detection limits , but dopamine metabolites were normal or elevated . dopamine beta-hydroxylase activity was undetectable in the plasma . immunohistochemical studies of perivascular cutaneous tissue confirmed normal peptidergic and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity , with absent dopamine beta-hydroxylase immunoreactivity . the findings were consistent with an enzymatic deficit in the conversion of dopamine to noradrenaline . the parents were clinically and biochemically normal . treatment of both patients with the synthetic amino acid , d-l-threo-dihydroxyphenylserine , which contains a hydroxyl group and is converted to noradrenaline by dopa-decarboxylase , reduced symptoms and signs of postural hypotension and increased levels of plasma noradrenaline and its urinary metabolites . in the male , ejaculation became possible . behavioural changes included a feeling of confidence and optimism , with a tendency to be argumentative . the laevo isomer also raised blood pressure and plasma noradrenaline levels . the drug had no direct pressor effects , as its actions were prevented by the dopa-decarboxylase inhibitor , carbidopa . 
prognostic factors in acute renal failure following aortic aneurysm surgery . this study analyses the prognostic factors associated with survival in 70 patients who developed acute renal failure following surgery for an aortic aneurysm . forty-nine patients ( 70 per cent ) had surgery for a ruptured aortic aneurysm and 21 patients ( 30 per cent ) had an elective procedure . fifty-nine patients received haemodialysis . thirty-three patients ( 47 per cent ) survived the episode of acute renal failure . six of these thirty-three patients died within three months of recovering from acute renal failure , giving an overall survival of 27/70 ( 39 per cent ) . a stepwise logistic regression analysis showed that the following factors significantly adversely affected survival : a need for inotropic support , ventilation for more than three days and age over 65 years . a model developed using these variables provided a basis for predicting outcome . 
natural history and cardiac manifestations of homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia . forty-nine patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia ( diagnosed on the basis of family history , xanthomatosis , total serum cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein receptor status ) were studied over a period of 13 years , and underwent cardiovascular assessment . eleven died , nine of myocardial infarction . seven underwent coronary artery bypass , and another five had surgery to relieve supravalvular and valvular aortic stenosis . a distinctive pattern of disease was noted . coronary ostial stenosis ( four patients ) and aortic root stenosis ( six patients ) , both consequences of aortic root cholesterol deposition , were the typical manifestations of heart disease in childhood and adolescence . adults developed severe coronary artery disease with a high incidence of main stem lesions ( four of five patients ) . surgery provided effective treatment for coronary artery disease and aortic outflow tract stenosis . overall survival appeared to be better than reported in other studies which may reflect the ' receptor-defective ' status of this group of patients . 
a predominantly adrenaline-secreting phaeochromocytoma . a 61-year-old woman who presented with diabetes , nausea , weight loss and sweating was found to have a phaeochromocytoma secreting adrenaline , with a small amount of n-methyladrenaline . there was no significant increase in noradrenaline secretion . she was normotensive , and developed profound hypotension in response to the alpha-adrenergic antagonist phenoxybenzamine . these features are unusual in phaeochromocytoma , but similar features occurred in the very few previous reported cases of pure adrenaline-secreting phaeochromocytoma . we conclude that it is important to identify such patients , so that they should not be given alpha-adrenergic antagonist drugs . 
endocarditis in the 80s in a general hospital in auckland , new zealand . the clinical and investigative features of 102 episodes of infective endocarditis were analysed retrospectively . the most frequent presenting symptoms ( malaise , fever , sweats , myalgia , weight loss ) were non-specific . fever , cardiac murmur , tachycardia , vascular phenomena and a change in mental state were the most common physical signs at admission . anaemia was present in half the episodes and renal and liver dysfunction in about one-third . streptococci ( 61 ) and staphylococci ( 31 ) were the causative organisms in all but 10 episodes . the commonest predisposing factors were underlying cardiac disease ( 52 per cent ) and a preceding focus of infection ( 14.6 per cent ) . left ventricular failure ( 33 per cent ) and focal neurological disease ( 29 per cent ) occurred frequently . valvular surgery was performed in 20 episodes , with two in-hospital deaths . overall hospital mortality was 27.5 per cent and death was most commonly neurological ( 11/28 ) . a higher mortality was associated with elevated total white blood count , microscopic haematuria , renal or liver dysfunction at admission , s. aureus endocarditis , the development of left ventricular failure or focal neurological disease , age greater than or equal to 60 years and persistence of fever after one week of antibiotic therapy . the absence of both renal dysfunction at admission and subsequent microscopic haematuria identified a group with a very low hospital mortality ( 4.7 per cent ) . the three-year mortality of the entire group was 43.5 per cent . 
clinical diagnosis of tamponade in malawi . a consecutive series of 25 malawian patients with tamponade secondary to tuberculosis were compared to 25 patients with congestive cardiac failure , without pericardial effusion in a retrospective study . more patients with tamponade had an impalpable apex beat ( 21/1 ) , pulsus paradoxus ( 13/0 ) , soft heart sounds ( 13/2 ) , paradoxical rise in jugular venous pressure ( 6/0 ) , and fewer had a murmur ( 1/14 ) . all these results are significant ( p less than 0.05 ) by the chi 2 test with yates ' correction . the presence of two or more of these discriminating physical signs has a positive predictive value of 75 per cent , and a negative predictive value of 99.5 per cent for the diagnosis of tamponade . clinical diagnosis of tamponade by primary health care personnel in malawi should be possible , and lead to earlier treatment . 
studies on the pathogenesis of hypertension in cushing 's disease and acromegaly . the pathogenesis of the hypertension associated with cushing 's syndrome and with acromegaly is poorly understood . we have investigated the possible roles of sodium retention , activation of the renin-angiotensin system and increased sympathetic nervous system activity in untreated patients . in 11 patients with cushing 's disease , seven of whom were hypertensive , total exchangeable sodium was normal despite increased levels of the mineralocorticoid hormones , 11-deoxy-corticosterone and corticosterone . the renin-angiotensin system was also normal . cardiac sensitivity to the beta-receptor agonist isoprenaline was increased , but this was not due to an increase in beta-adrenoceptor density . hypertension in cushing 's disease is neither sodium-dependent nor angiotensin ii-mediated , but increased cardiac sensitivity to catecholamines , by increasing cardiac output , may contribute to the pathogenesis of hypertension . in nine patients with acromegaly ( three of whom were hypertensive ) total exchangeable sodium was elevated . although no correlation between blood pressure and exchangeable sodium was found , hypertension in acromegaly is probably sodium dependent . no evidence was found for a pathogenetic role for either the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone or the sympathetic nervous system . 
nimodipine after resuscitation from out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation . a placebo-controlled , double-blind , randomized trial . one hundred fifty-five consecutive patients resuscitated after out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation by a physician-manned advanced life support unit were randomly assigned to receive nimodipine or placebo at a dosage of 10 micrograms/kg as an intravenous injection immediately after restoration of spontaneous circulation , followed by an infusion of 0.5 micrograms/kg per minute for 24 hours . no significant difference was found in the 1-year survival rate of nimodipine-treated ( 30 [ 40 % ] of 75 patients ) and placebo-treated patients ( 29 [ 36 % ] of 80 patients ) . recurrent ventricular fibrillation during the treatment occurred in one patient in the nimodipine group compared with 12 patients in the placebo group . in a post hoc analysis of patients with very long delays in advanced life support ( more than 10 minutes ) , the 1-year survival rate was higher with nimodipine ( eight [ 47 % ] of 17 patients ) than with placebo ( two [ 8 % ] of 26 patients ) . nimodipine may be of benefit in patients with delayed resuscitation . 
deficiency of calcitonin gene-related peptide in raynaud 's phenomenon . skin biopsy samples from the fingers of nine patients with primary raynaud 's phenomenon , nine with the disorder associated with systemic sclerosis , and eleven healthy controls were examined by immunocytochemistry . there were no differences between the groups in the distribution of pgp 9.5 ( a pan-neuronal marker ) immunoreactivity , but there was a significant reduction in the number of calcitonin gene-related peptide ( cgrp ) immunoreactive neurons in the skin of patients with primary raynaud 's phenomenon and those with systemic sclerosis . these findings implicate dysfunction of the cgrp neurovascular axis in the pathophysiology of raynaud 's phenomenon . 
angiographic follow-up after placement of a self-expanding coronary-artery stent background . the placement of stents in coronary arteries after coronary angioplasty has been investigated as a way of treating abrupt coronary-artery occlusion related to the angioplasty and of reducing the late intimal hyperplasia responsible for gradual restenosis of the dilated lesion . methods . from march 1986 to january 1988 , we implanted 117 self-expanding , stainless-steel endovascular stents ( wallstent ) in the native coronary arteries ( 94 stents ) or saphenous-vein bypass grafts ( 23 stents ) of 105 patients . angiograms were obtained immediately before and after placement of the stent and at follow-up at least one month later ( unless symptoms required angiography sooner ) . the mortality after one year was 7.6 percent ( 8 patients ) . follow-up angiograms ( after a mean [ + / - sd ] of 5.7 + / - 4.4 months ) were obtained in 95 patients with 105 stents and were analyzed quantitatively by a computer-assisted system of cardiovascular angiographic analysis . the 10 patients without follow-up angiograms included 4 who died . results . complete occlusion occurred in 27 stents in 25 patients ( 24 percent ) ; 21 occlusions were documented within the first 14 days after implantation . overall , immediately after placement of the stent there was a significant increase in the minimal luminal diameter and a significant decrease in the percentage of the diameter with stenosis ( changing from a mean [ + / - sd ] of 1.88 + / - 0.43 to 2.48 + / - 0.51 mm and from 37 + / - 12 to 21 + / - 10 percent , respectively ; p less than 0.0001 ) . later , however , there was a significant decrease in the minimal luminal diameter and a significant increase in the stenosis of the segment with the stent ( 1.68 + / - 1.78 mm and 48 + / - 34 percent at follow-up ) . significant restenosis , as indicated by a reduction of 0.72 mm in the minimal luminal diameter or by an increase in the percentage of stenosis to greater than or equal to 50 percent , occurred in 32 percent and 14 percent of patent stents , respectively . conclusions . early occlusion remains an important limitation of this coronary-artery stent . even when the early effects are beneficial , there are frequently late occlusions or restenosis . the place of this form of treatment for coronary artery disease remains to be determined . 
an epidemiologic study of abuse of analgesic drugs . effects of phenacetin and salicylate on mortality and cardiovascular morbidity ( 1968 to 1987 ) background . phenacetin abuse is known to produce kidney disease ; salicylate use is supposed to prevent cardiovascular disease . we conducted a prospective , longitudinal epidemiologic study to examine the effects of these drugs on cause-specific mortality and on cardiovascular morbidity . methods . in 1968 we evaluated a study group of 623 healthy women 30 to 49 years old who had evidence of a regular intake of phenacetin , as measured by urinary excretion of its metabolites , and a matched control group of 621 women . salicylate excretion was also measured . all subjects were examined over a period of 20 years . results . life-table analyses of mortality during the 20 years , with adjustment for the year of birth , cigarette smoking , and length of follow-up , revealed significant differences between the groups in overall mortality ( study group vs. control group , 74 vs. 27 deaths ; relative risk , 2.2 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 1.5 to 3.3 ) , deaths due to urologic or renal disease ( relative risk , 16.1 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 3.9 to 66.1 ) , deaths due to cancer ( relative risk , 1.9 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 1.1 to 3.3 ) , and deaths due to cardiovascular disease ( relative risk , 2.9 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 1.5 to 5.5 ) . the relative risk of cardiovascular disease ( fatal or nonfatal myocardial infarction , heart failure , or stroke ) was 1.8 , and the 95 percent confidence interval 1.3 to 2.6 . the odds ratio for the incidence of hypertension was 1.6 , and the 95 percent confidence interval 1.2 to 2.1 . the effects of phenacetin on morbidity and mortality , with adjustment for base-line salicylate excretion , were similar . in contrast , salicylate use had no effect on either mortality or morbidity . conclusions . regular use of analgesic drugs containing phenacetin is associated with an increased risk of hypertension and mortality and morbidity due to cardiovascular disease , as well as an increased risk of mortality due to cancer and urologic or renal disease . the use of salicylates carries no such risk . 
the effects of epidural anesthesia on the doppler velocimetry of umbilical and uterine arteries in normal and hypertensive patients during active term labor . to study the effects of epidural anesthesia on uterine and umbilical artery blood flow in preeclampsia , we observed 25 patients in active labor at 36 or more weeks ' gestation . seven had preeclampsia , eight had chronic hypertension , and ten had no complications . doppler velocimetry of the uterine and umbilical arteries was performed before and after intravenous fluid loading and at 30 and 60 minutes after epidural blockade . maternal vital signs and fetal heart rate were monitored continuously . after epidural block , mean maternal blood pressure fell significantly in all groups , but no maternal hypotension was observed . mean maternal and fetal heart rates were unchanged . after epidural block , mean uterine artery systolic-diastolic ( s-d ) ratios did not change in the chronic-hypertension and normal groups , but fell significantly in the preeclamptic group to values similar to those of the normal group . umbilical artery s-d ratios did not change in any group . in preeclamptic pregnancy , epidural anesthesia may help to reduce uterine artery vasospasm and may benefit intrapartum fetal well-being . 
reduced frequency of hypertensive disorders in placenta previa the isthmic segment of the uterine artery 's ascending branch has a freer course and wider diameter than distal parts of the vessel . therefore , we assumed that this arterial segment would provide better blood flow and prevent hypoxia of the trophoblast . as a result , placenta previa pregnancies would be complicated by hypertensive disorders less often than are pregnancies with normally implanted placentas . to test this hypothesis , 491 placenta previa pregnancies , among a population of 106,866 pregnant women , were compared with pregnancies with normally implanted placentas . clinically meaningful and statistically significant reductions in the rates and risks of hypertensive disorders were found in placenta previa pregnancies ( p = .002 , relative risk = 0.44 , 95 % confidence interval 0.25-0 .78 ) . the differences persisted when primiparous and multiparous women were examined separately and when preterm and term deliveries were separated . in a multivariate logistic regression analysis , patients with placenta previa had a third of the risk for hypertensive disorders compared with pregnant women with normally implanted placentas ( relative risk = 0.36 , 95 % confidence interval 0.20-0 .64 ) , even after controlling for parity and preterm or term delivery . in the same model , primiparity and preterm delivery were each associated with a doubling of risk for hypertensive disorders , regardless of the placental implantation site . thus , regardless of parity and preterm or term delivery , placenta previa and hypertensive disorders are inversely related . 
the risk for systemic vascular diseases and mortality in patients with central retinal vein occlusion . in this cross-sectional study , the authors evaluated 197 patients diagnosed with central retinal vein occlusion ( crvo ) at the wilmer ophthalmological institute between 1980 and 1985 to determine the risk of systemic disease and mortality . complete follow-up information for mortality was obtained in 191 ( 97 % ) . national health interview survey ( nhis ) patients and wilmer cataract patients formed two comparison groups . the prevalence of hypertension was significantly elevated in the crvo cases when compared with both comparison groups ( p less than 0.03 , 0.005 ) . the prevalence of diabetes mellitus was increased in crvo cases in comparison with the nhis group ( p less than 0.005 ) . the prevalence of cerebrovascular or cardiovascular disease was the same for all three groups , as was overall mortality . mortality was not increased in crvo cases as compared with united states mortality rates . 
evaluation of argon laser surgery in children under 13 years of age . argon laser surgery is an effective treatment for ectasias and congenital port-wine stains ; however , its use in children under the age of 13 is controversial . this paper reviews 202 children under the age of 13 who underwent argon laser treatments for congenital port-wine stains , spider angiomas , epidermal nevi , and lentigines . the clinical characteristics of port-wine stains in 170 children are discussed . good to excellent results ( moderate to complete clearing ) in port-wine stains were obtained in 60 percent of patients and seemed to correlate best with lack of blanchability on pressure . hypertrophic scarring was seen in only 7 children , all of whom had undressed wounds ; no significant scarring has been seen in any subsequent child who had maintained a dressed wound postoperatively . 
detection of vascular complications in renal allografts with color doppler flow imaging . one hundred ninety-five color doppler flow ( cdf ) examinations were performed in 146 renal allografts to assess the capabilities of this technique in detecting intra - or extrarenal vascular complications . conventional angiography was also performed in 44 transplants . in the group of transplants with angiographic correlation , cdf sonography enabled correct identification of 30 of 34 vascular complications . cdf showed 10 of 11 significant stenoses of the renal artery or of one of its main branches . there were two false-positive renal artery stenoses ( one normal artery and one 40 % stenosis ) . nine of nine renal artery thromboses and the single pseudoaneurysm were also identified . within the parenchyma , cdf sonography demonstrated five of five segmental infarcts , two of two postbiopsy arteriovenous fistulas , and three of six segmental or interlobar artery stenoses . measurement of peak systolic velocity showed a significant difference ( p less than .05 ) between a group ( n = 8 ) with significant stenosis of the renal artery or one of its main branches ( mean , 215.2 cm/sec + / - 32 ) and a group ( n = 14 ) without stenosis ( mean , 99.2 cm/sec + / - 19 ) . 
translumbar arch aortography : a retrospective controlled study of usefulness , technique , and safety . subclavian and axillary artery stenoses may lead to axillofemoral bypass graft failure . these arteries were assessed preoperatively with arch aortography performed after conventional high translumbar peripheral aortography by exchanging the initial 16-gauge sheath for a 5-f pigtail catheter . thirty-two diagnostic translumbar runoff and arch ( tlr-arch ) aortograms were obtained in 30 patients with advanced lower extremity ischemia . in six patients ( 20 % ) , the results of the arch study influenced the choice of an inflow site . these patients were compared with 70 control subjects who underwent conventional translumbar aortography without arch studies . in the tlr-arch group , two major complications occurred in one patient , while in the control group 11 major complications occurred in 10 patients . one retroperitoneal hematoma occurred in the tlr-arch group ; two occurred in the control group . the mean change in hematocrit for the tlr-arch group was -3.81 % ( -0.0381 ) , and for the control group it was -4.17 % ( -0.0417 ) . this difference was not statistically significant . arch aortography is a valuable adjunct to the translumbar aortofemoral study . it can be simply performed without increasing the morbidity of the peripheral study . 
valve and great vessel stenosis : assessment with mr jet velocity mapping . for measurement of poststenotic jet velocities with magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging , the authors reduced the echo time ( te ) of the field even-echo rephasing ( feer ) velocity mapping sequence from 14.0 to 3.6 msec , so minimizing the problem of mr signal loss from turbulent fluid . in vitro use of rotating disk and stenotic flow phantoms confirmed that the 3.6-msec te sequence enables accurate measurement of jet velocities of up to 6.0 m/sec ( r = .996 ) . peak jet velocity measurements were made with mr imaging in 36 patients with stenosis of native heart valves ( n = 9 ) , conduits ( n = 19 ) , or fontan connections ( n = 2 ) or with aortic coarctation ( n = 6 ) . peak velocity measurements made with mr imaging agreed well with measurements made with doppler ultrasound ( us ) , which were available in 18 cases ( standard deviation = 0.2 m/sec ) . velocity mapping with fast-echo mr imaging is likely to have considerable importance as a noninvasive means of locating and evaluating stenoses , particularly at sites inaccessible to us , but care must be taken to prevent errors caused by malalignment , signal loss , phase wrap , or partial-volume effects . 
pharmacomechanical thrombolysis and angioplasty in the management of clotted hemodialysis grafts : early and late clinical results . the results of pharmacomechanical thrombolysis and angioplasty of 121 thrombosed hemodialysis grafts were reviewed . the initial pharmacomechanical method ( used in 65 cases ) employed clot maceration with hook-shaped catheters and clot lacing with highly concentrated urokinase . the current technique ( used in 56 cases ) consisted of pulsed-spray injection of urokinase into the clot . all fully treated grafts ( 117 cases ) underwent complete or near-complete thrombolysis , and 93 % remained patent after 1 day . mean time for pulsed-spray lysis was 46 minutes + / - 21 . one patient ( less than 1 % ) had gastrointestinal bleeding and received a transfusion ; minor complications occurred in 3 % of patients . primary and secondary graft patency rates for both methods at 1 year were 26 % and 51 % , respectively . while graft age and results of angioplasty did not influence future graft patency , shorter intervals between graft thromboses was predictive of earlier subsequent graft failure . results suggest that pharmacomechanical thrombolysis and angioplasty provide rapid , consistent , and safe recanalization of clotted hemodialysis grafts and represent a promising additional therapeutic approach to long-term graft management . 
effects of long-term verapamil therapy on serum lipids and other metabolic parameters . calcium antagonists have been used successfully in the management of hypertension for more than a decade , but less is known about their long-term metabolic effects . to define the impact of one calcium antagonist , verapamil , on serum lipids and other metabolic parameters , we placed 45 hypertensive patients on verapamil monotherapy and followed them for 4 to 8 years . after a mean treatment period of 5.3 years , total cholesterol and triglyceride levels were not significantly different from baseline , whereas the mean high-density lipoprotein cholesterol value increased significantly from 1.17 + / - 0.41 mmol/l at the initiation of treatment to 1.39 + / - 0.36 mmol/l at 5.3 years ( p less than 0.05 ) . other important biochemical parameters , including serum glucose , potassium and uric acid levels were unaffected by verapamil therapy . no serious side effects or adverse cardiovascular events occurred during verapamil therapy , and there were no study dropouts . it therefore seems likely that this agent will become increasingly useful in the long-term management of essential hypertension . 
anti-atherosclerotic and vasculoprotective actions of calcium antagonists . treatment of hypertension may prevent many of the complications attributable to blood pressure elevation , particularly those that are " pressure-related , " such as stroke . however , the atherosclerotic complications of hypertension , e.g. , coronary artery disease manifested as coronary morbidity and mortality , have not been reduced significantly with antihypertensive therapy . this disappointing outcome may reflect the adverse metabolic effects of the traditional therapies , diuretics and beta blockers , and their lack of specific vasoprotective properties . increasing attention is thus being paid to the newer antihypertensive agents , which typically have fewer adverse effects and perhaps more physiologic mechanisms of antihypertensive action . since calcium plays a key role in the genesis of atherosclerosis , calcium antagonists may positively affect the course of vascular disease . investigators have observed that calcium antagonists display clear antiatherosclerotic properties in experimental as well as clinical studies . in one recently published clinical study , coronary artery disease was shown to develop more slowly , with a slower progression of individual stenoses , higher regression rate and less frequent occurrence of new lesions in patients treated chronically with verapamil compared to those receiving conventional therapies . other similar investigations are currently under way to evaluate the antiatherogenic properties of calcium antagonists , including the frankfurt isoptin progression study ( fips ) , the multicenter isradipine diuretic atherosclerosis study ( midas ) , the international nifedipine trial on atherosclerosis coronary therapy ( intact ) , and the large-scale montreal heart institute study . results of these studies , which use precise end points such as myocardial infarction , cerebral infarction and peripheral vascular disease , may revolutionize the treatment of hypertension by identifying therapeutic approaches that control both the pressure-related and atherosclerotic complications of the disease . 
secondary prevention with verapamil after myocardial infarction . the danish study group on verapamil in myocardial infarction . the effect of verapamil on death and major events ( i.e. , death or reinfarction ) after an acute myocardial infarction was studied in a double-blind , randomized , placebo-controlled , multicenter trial , the danish verapamil infarction trial ii ( davit ii ) . eight hundred seventy-eight patients started treatment with verapamil 360 mg/day and 897 patients with placebo . treatment continued for up to 18 months ( mean 16 months ) . ninety-five deaths and 146 major events occurred in the verapamil group and 119 deaths and 180 major events in the placebo group . eighteen-month mortality rates were 11.1 and 13.8 % ( hazard ratio 0.80 , 95 % confidence limits 0.63 to 1.05 , p = 0.108 ) , and major event rates 18.0 and 21.6 % ( 0.80 , 0.64 to 0.99 , p = 0.027 ) in the verapamil and placebo groups respectively . when combining the results of this trial with the results of the first danish study on verapamil in myocardial infarction , the meta-analysis demonstrated that treatment with verapamil from the second week after an acute myocardial infarction resulted in a reduction of pooled odds ratios of 0.22 ( 95 % confidence interval 0.01 to 0.37 , p = 0.04 ) for death , 0.21 ( 0.05 to 0.35 , p = 0.02 ) for major events , and 0.27 ( 0.06 to 0.43 , p = 0.02 ) for first reinfarctions . it is concluded that long-term treatment with verapamil after an acute myocardial infarction is associated with a significant reduction in overall mortality as well as major event and reinfarction rates . 
relation between lipids and atherosclerosis : epidemiologic evidence and clinical implications . coronary artery disease ( cad ) is the leading cause of death in most developed countries . therefore , elucidation of risk factors and associated mechanisms for cad has been a high priority . data from the framingham heart study and other large-scale epidemiologic studies have identified major risk factors associated with cad , demonstrating the adverse effects of increased total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels and the protective effect of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol . other more recent investigations , including the lipid research clinics trial and the helsinki heart study , have shown that lowering total cholesterol and raising high-density lipoprotein cholesterol significantly reduce the risk for cad . because hypertension is also a significant risk factor for cad , the assumption has been that blood pressure reduction should offer significant benefits in terms of cad risk . however , despite their antihypertensive efficacy , diuretics and beta blockers have failed to significantly reduce cad morbidity or mortality . the adverse effects of these antihypertensive agents on lipid profiles , glucose metabolism and other metabolic parameters may account for their disappointing performance in reducing cad morbidity and mortality . as a result , newer agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and calcium antagonists that appear to be free of such adverse effects have garnered considerable attention for their potential to reduce cad risk . 
low-dose aspirin . ii . relationship of angiotensin ii pressor responses , circulating eicosanoids , and pregnancy outcome . forty pregnant women ( 28 to 32 weeks ' gestation ) were given low-dose aspirin therapy ( 81 mg/day ) from the time of enrollment until delivery ; circulating eicosanoid levels and angiotensin ii pressor responses were measured before and after 1 week of aspirin therapy . subsequent clinical outcome was correlated with these results . all women had significant reductions in serum and plasma thromboxane b2 levels with aspirin treatment ( p less than 0.01 ) . eleven women who remained sensitive to the pressor effects of angiotensin ii ( effective pressor dose less than 10 ng/kg/min ) after 1 week of low-dose aspirin treatment exhibited significant decreases ( p less than 0.05 ) in plasma 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha ( 264 + / - 119 vs 161 + / - 31 pg/ml , mean + / - sd ) and prostaglandin e2 ( 476 + / - 174 vs 351 + / - 112 pg/ml ) levels . in contrast , patients who were either nonsensitive ( refractory ) to angiotensin ii ( n = 18 ; greater than or equal to 10 ng/kg/min ) before aspirin or became nonsensitive after aspirin administration ( n = 11 ) had no change in either plasma 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha or prostaglandin e2 concentrations . the occurrence of pregnancy-induced hypertension was 100 % in the women who remained angiotensin ii sensitive during aspirin therapy as compared with 36 % and 39 % in the other two groups ( x2 = 16.14 ; p less than 0.001 ) . thus during low-dose aspirin therapy a failure to develop refractoriness to infused angiotensin ii is associated with a nonselective inhibition of eicosanoids and the almost certain development of pregnancy-induced hypertension . these observations may reflect a basic defect in vascular adaptation to pregnancy . 
maternal and uteroplacental hemodynamic effects of chronic captopril in the hypertensive , term-pregnant rat . the chronic effects of captopril on maternal hemodynamics and organ perfusion were investigated in 10 untreated and 10 captopril-treated pregnant spontaneously hypertensive rats by means of the radioactive-labeled microsphere technique . the normal decrease in blood pressure during gestation was prevented by reduction of litter size to two conceptuses on day 7 of gestation . captopril ( approximately 10 mg/kg/day ) or drug vehicle ( 50 % ethyl alcohol ) was administered intraperitoneally by an osmotic pump from day 7 to 21 . at term mean arterial pressure was 23 % lower in the captopril-treated group as the result of a 29 % decrease in total peripheral resistance without a significant change in cardiac output . the decrease in total peripheral resistance was primarily caused by a decline in splanchnic and skin resistances . maternal organ and uteroplacental perfusion were not significantly altered . we conclude that administration of captopril during the last 2 weeks of pregnancy in the hypertensive rat effectively lowers maternal blood pressure without adverse effects on organ and uteroplacental perfusion . 
oral contraception in disease states . oral contraceptives are clearly contraindicated in patients with a history of thromboembolic disease , ischemic heart attack , or cerebral stroke . patients requiring long-term anticoagulant treatment can be treated with gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogs to prevent ovulation , because ruptured follicles can cause massive intraperitoneal bleeding . patients with essential hypertension and severe liver diseases should also discontinue treatment 4 weeks before major elective surgery . migraine and diabetes mellitus are regarded as relative contraindications , depending on the individual situation . long-term diseases , such as crohn 's disease , epilepsy , and sickle cell anemia , also require individualized consultation . 
effects of hydralazine and prostaglandin e1 on regional myocardial function in the ischemic canine heart . the effects of hydralazine and prostaglandin e1 on regional myocardial function were studied in dogs . sixteen dogs were randomly assigned to one of two drug treatment groups of eight dogs each . the first group ( g1 ) was treated with 0.4 mg/kg hydralazine administered as a bolus . the second group ( g2 ) received prostaglandin e1 given as an infusion for a total dose of 0.8 micrograms/kg . regional myocardial function was assessed through the measurement of myocardial segment shortening during systole . we call this index percent systolic shortening ( % ss ) . an ischemic heart preparation was created by partial occlusion of coronary blood flow . the degree of induced ischemia was determined by following the reduction in % ss . hydralazine reduced % ss of the ischemic myocardium while increasing the cardiac index , stroke volume index , and coronary blood flow . prostaglandin e1 increased % ss , cardiac index , and stroke volume index in the ischemic heart preparation . hydralazine , therefore , induced dissociation between global ventricular function and regional myocardial function whereas prostaglandin e1 did not . the present findings emphasize that evaluation of vasoactive drugs should consider their effects on regional myocardial function as well as on global hemodynamics . 
steal-prone coronary anatomy and myocardial ischemia associated with four primary anesthetic agents in humans . to examine the relationship between myocardial ischemia in patients with steal-prone coronary anatomy and the administration of isoflurane anesthesia , we reviewed coronary angiograms of 955 patients who had participated in a randomized trial of the use of one of four primary anesthetics for coronary artery bypass operations . steal-prone anatomy was found in 31.8 % of patients who had received enflurane ; 40.0 % , halothane ; 32.6 % , isoflurane ; and 31.7 % , sufentanil . detected by greater than or equal to 0.1 mv st segment displacement , ischemia during anesthesia occurred in 290 ( 30.4 % ) of all patients with no difference in the incidence among the four primary anesthetics ( 27.5 % -32.9 % ) . patients with steal-prone anatomy did not suffer more ischemia than patients who needed coronary artery bypass surgery but with other varieties of coronary anatomy . in patients with steal-prone coronary anatomy , the incidence of myocardial ischemia by primary anesthetic was 24.0 % with enflurane , 34.4 % with halothane , 32.1 % with isoflurane , and 38.2 % with sufentanil . systolic blood pressure less than 90 mm hg during anesthesia occurred in 416 ( 45.6 % ) patients and was twice as common during administration of volatile anesthetics than during that of sufentanil . hypotension did not increase ischemia frequency in patients with steal-prone anatomy with use of any of the four primary anesthetics including isoflurane . ischemia was temporally related to hypotension in only 9 patients ( 0.9 % ) . in none of the 42 patients who had steal-prone anatomy and hypotension during isoflurane anesthesia was ischemia temporally related to hypotension . 
an increase in plasma cholesterol independent of thyroid function during long-term amiodarone therapy . a dose-dependent relationship . objective : to determine whether long-term amiodarone treatment is associated with a rise in plasma cholesterol , and , if so , to analyze its relation with thyroid function . design : consecutive entry trial , including cardiac patients who initiated amiodarone medication but excluding those with abnormal thyroid function ( defined as peak thyroid-stimulating hormone [ tsh ] response to thyrotropin-releasing hormone [ trh ] less than 2.8 or greater than 22.0 mu/l ) either before or during amiodarone treatment . patients : twenty-three patients who remained euthyroid were studied . intervention : oral administration of amiodarone ( mean duration of treatment , 17 months ; range , 6 to 30 months ) . measurements : fasting plasma lipids , thyroid hormones , and peak tsh to trh values were recorded before and every 6 months during amiodarone treatment . results : plasma cholesterol gradually increased from 5.1 + / - 0.2 mmol/l before treatment to 6.9 + / - 0.8 mmol/l after 30 months of amiodarone medication ( p less than 0.001 ) ; the peak tsh response to trh did not change . when age - and sex-specific reference values were applied , 30 % of the patients had cholesterol values above the 75th percentile before treatment ; this number rose to 69 % after 2 years of treatment . the rise in plasma cholesterol was associated with an equal increase in apoprotein b. plasma cholesterol was not related to the daily dose of amiodarone or to plasma concentrations of amiodarone , desethylamiodarone , thyroxine ( t4 ) , triiodothyronine ( t3 ) , or reverse triiodothyronine ( rt3 ) . linear regression analysis indicated a positive relation between plasma cholesterol and the cumulative dose of amiodarone ( r = 0.25 , p less than 0.05 ) . conclusion : long-term amiodarone treatment is associated with a dose-dependent increase in plasma cholesterol that is independent of thyroid function . 
outcome of prophylactic therapy for idiopathic anaphylaxis . objective : to determine the efficacy of a prophylactic regimen ( prednisone , h1 blockade , and sympathomimetic amine therapy ) in patients with idiopathic anaphylaxis . design : clinical trial before and after treatment . setting : referral-based allergy clinic at a major medical center . patients : fifty-three patients with a history compatible with idiopathic anaphylaxis for at least 6 months before presentation to the allergy service and with subsequent management by the service for at least 6 months . interventions : patients with frequent life-threatening symptoms were treated with a prophylactic regimen . patients with infrequent episodes of idiopathic anaphylaxis were only treated acutely for each episode of anaphylaxis . measurements and main results : the results favored prophylactic treatment with prednisone for patients who were classified as generalized-frequent in the clinical outcome measures of frequency ( per patient per year ) of episodes ( mean before treatment , 7.31 + / - 6.46 ; after treatment , 3.61 + / - 4.73 ; p less than 0.02 ) and emergency room visits ( mean before treatment , 1.94 + / - 3.42 ; after treatment , 0.21 + / - 0.44 ; p less than 0.005 ) and for patients classified as angioedema-frequent in the frequency of episodes ( mean before treatment , 14.93 + / - 15.89 ; after treatment , 2.58 + / - 2.18 ; p less than 0.003 ) and emergency room visits ( mean before treatment , 0.76 + / - 1.01 ; after treatment , 0.07 + / - 0.11 ; p less than 0.025 ) . no statistically significant difference was found for patients classified as generalized-infrequent in the frequency of episodes ( mean before treatment , 2.01 + / - 1.30 ; after treatment , 1.36 + / - 1.79 ) or of the emergency room visits ( mean before treatment , 0.56 + / - 0.71 ; after treatment , 0.32 + / - 0.75 ) or for patients classified as angioedema-infrequent in the frequency of episodes ( mean before treatment , 1.94 + / - 1.55 ; after treatment , 2.03 + / - 2.16 ) or of emergency room visits ( mean before treatment , 0.27 + / - 0.44 ; after treatment , 0.37 + / - 0.59 ) . conclusions : prophylactic treatment with prednisone and h1 antihistamines with or without sympathomimetic amines improves clinical outcome in patients who are classified as idiopathic anaphylaxis-angioedema frequent and idiopathic anaphylaxis-generalized frequent . 
igd immune complex vasculitis in a patient with hyperimmunoglobulinemia d and periodic fever . we describe a 27-year-old dutch woman with the hyperimmunoglobulinemia d and periodic fever syndrome . during febrile attacks she occasionally presented with skin lesions on the distal parts of her upper and lower extremities , with the histologic picture of a leukocytoclastic vasculitis . clear perivascular deposits of igd and c3 were presented in early lesional skin on immunofluorescence investigation . circulating igd immune complexes were demonstrated on several occasions , both during and in between clinical attacks . these findings are consistent with an igd immune complex-mediated pathogenesis for the skin lesions . in 10 patients with other forms of immune complex vasculitis of the skin , minimal perivascular deposits of igd were found in four cases . in these cases , however , igd was never found as the solitary immunoglobulin class . 
the effects of tumor necrosis factor on intestinal structure and metabolism . tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) , a polypeptide produced predominantly by activated macrophages , is an important mediator of sepsis . we analyzed the specific metabolic changes that occur in the gut following tnf administration . following general anesthesia , hemodynamic and metabolic indices were measured serially in control dogs ( n = 7 ) and animals receiving a continuous sublethal intravenous infusion of tnf ( 0.57.10 ( 5 ) iu/kg/6 hours , n = 7 ) . during tnf infusion mean arterial pressure gradually decreased despite fluid administration , which maintained wedge pressure and cardiac index , which were similar to control animals . while tnf significantly reduced intestinal blood flow to 12 + / - 3 ml/min/kg compared to 28 + / - 3 ml/min/kg ( p less than 0.01 ) in controls , intestinal oxygen consumption was maintained due to an increased extraction rate . despite hypoperfusion the intestinal exchange of metabolic substrate ( glucose , lactate , pyruvate , alanine , glutamine , glutamate , and ammonia ) was comparable between the control and tnf-infused animals . however , when substrate carbon balance across the intestinal tract was calculated , it appeared that there was a limitation in fuel availability in the tnf animals . this may be due to competition for fuel between the gut and other major organs . fuel limitation may jeopardize rapid cell proliferation and mucosal repair and with regional hypoperfusion these processes may account for the mucosal ulcerations observed at the termination of the study . 
evidence for tumor necrosis factor-induced pulmonary microvascular injury after intestinal ischemia-reperfusion injury . acute lung injury characterized by increased microvascular permeability is one feature of multiple-organ system failure and the adult respiratory distress syndrome . intestinal ischemia-reperfusion injury has been linked to this type of acute lung injury . the purpose of these experiments was to examine the pathogenic mediators that link the two processes , with particular emphasis on the roles of endotoxin and tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf alpha ) . previously described characteristics of the acute lung injury in this rat model of intestinal ischemia-reperfusion include pulmonary neutrophil sequestration , depletion of lung tissue atp , alveolar endothelial cell disruption , and increased microvascular permeability . plasma levels of tnf in the systemic circulation of sham-operated animals and those with intestinal ischemic injury less than 60 minutes in duration were very low or undetectable . intestinal ischemia for 120 minutes was associated with tnf elevation to 1.19 + / - 0.50 u/ml . reperfusion for periods of 15 and 30 minutes generated 5 - to 10-fold increases in circulating tnf levels ( 6.61 + / - 3.11 u/ml , p greater than 0.05 and 10.41 + / - 5.41 u/ml , p = 0.004 compared to sham ) ; however this increase in circulating tnf was transient and largely cleared within 60 minutes after initiating reperfusion . portal vein endotoxin levels were found to increase significantly before the appearance of tnf in systemic plasma , suggesting that gut-derived endotoxin may induce tnf release from hepatic macrophages into the systemic circulation . anti-tnf antibody attenuated the increase in pulmonary microvascular permeability in this preparation but did not prevent pulmonary neutrophil sequestration . these observations suggest that endotoxin and tnf have pathogenic roles in this acute lung injury , but that mechanisms of adherence of neutrophils to endothelial cells independent of tnf may be involved . the accumulation of neutrophils in the lung but the prevention of a vascular permeability increase in the presence of antibody to tnf may imply an in vivo role for tnf in the process of neutrophil activation . these studies provide additional evidence of the importance of the endogenous inflammatory mediators in the development of systemic injury in response to local tissue injury . 
treatment of patients with aortic dissection presenting with peripheral vascular complications . the incidence of peripheral vascular complications in 272 patients with aortic dissection during a 25-year span was determined , as was outcome after a uniform , aggressive surgical approach directed at repair of the thoracic aorta . one hundred twenty-eight patients ( 47 % ) presented with acute type a dissection , 70 ( 26 % ) with chronic type a , 40 ( 15 % ) with acute type b , and 34 ( 12 % ) with chronic type b dissections . eighty-five patients ( 31 % ) sustained one or more peripheral vascular complications : seven ( 3 % ) had a stroke , nine ( 3 % ) had paraplegia , 66 ( 24 % ) sustained loss of a peripheral pulse , 22 ( 8 % ) had impaired renal perfusion , and 14 patients ( 5 % ) had compromised visceral perfusion . following repair of the thoracic aorta , local peripheral vascular procedures were unnecessary in 92 % of patients who presented with absence of a peripheral pulse . the operative mortality rate for all patients was 25 % + / - 3 % ( 68 of 272 patients ) . for the subsets of individuals with paraplegia , loss of renal perfusion , and compromised visceral perfusion , the operative mortality rates ( + / - 70 % confidence limits ) were high : 44 % + / - 17 % ( 4 of 9 patients ) , 50 % + / - 11 % ( 11 of 22 patients ) , and 43 % + / - 14 % ( 6 of 14 patients ) , respectively . the mortality rates were lower for patients presenting with stroke ( 14 % + / - 14 % [ 1 of 7 patients ] ) or loss of peripheral pulse ( 27 % + / - 6 % [ 18 of 66 patients ] ) . multivariate analysis revealed that impaired renal perfusion was the only peripheral vascular complication that was a significant independent predictor of increased operative mortality risk ( p = 0.024 ) ; earlier surgical referral ( replacement of the appropriate section of the thoracic aorta ) or more expeditious diagnosis followed by surgical renal artery revascularization after a thoracic procedure may represent the only way to improve outcome in this high-risk patient subset . early , aggressive thoracic aortic repair ( followed by aortic fenestration and/or abdominal exploration with or without direct visceral or renal vascular reconstruction when necessary ) can save some patients with compromised visceral perfusion ; however , once visceral infarction develops the prognosis is also poor . increased awareness of these devastating complications of aortic dissection and the availability of better diagnostic tools today may improve the survival rate for these patients in the future . the initial surgical procedure should include repair of the thoracic aorta in most patients . 
involvement of thromboxane and neutrophils in multiple-system organ edema with interleukin-2 . interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) produces toxicity characterized by generalized edema within 24 hours . this study tests whether the rate of il-2 administration modulates the onset of edema and examines thromboxane ( tx ) and neutrophils as possible mediators of this event . recombinant human il-2 , 10 ( 5 ) u ( n = 7 ) , 10 ( 6 ) u ( n = 9 ) , or vehicle ( n = 8 ) were given to anesthetized rats intravenously during a period of 1 hour . at 6 hours edema , as measured by increase in wet to dry weight ( w/d ) ratio , was present in the heart , liver , and kidney , with 10 ( 5 ) u il-2 and in the lung , heart , liver and kidney , with 10 ( 6 ) u il-2 , relative to values with vehicle-infused controls ( all p less than 0.05 ) . with a 1-hour infusion of 10 ( 6 ) u il-2 , there was an increase in plasma thromboxane ( tx ) b2 level to 1290 + / - 245 pg/ml , higher than 481 + / - 93 pg/ml in control rats ( p less than 0.05 ) ; lung polymorphonuclear leukocyte ( pmn ) sequestration of 53 + / - 7 pmn/10 higher-power fields ( hpf ) relative to 23 + / - 2 pmn/10 hpf in controls ( p less than 0.05 ) ; and increased bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) fluid protein concentration of 1970 + / - 210 micrograms/ml relative to 460 micrograms/ml in controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . when 10 ( 6 ) u il-2 was given as a 1-minute intravenous bolus ( n = 9 ) , edema was not demonstrated , plasma txb2 levels were similar to controls , there was no leukosequestration , and bal protein levels were normal . these data indicate that a constant infusion but not the rapid bolus administration of il-2 produces in rats multiple-system organ edema , increased plasma txb2 , sequestration of pmns , and microvascular permeability . these findings may explain the early toxicity seen in patients given high-dose il-2 in cancer treatment . 
cardiac rehabilitation after coronary artery bypass grafting : effects on exercise performance and risk factors . after coronary artery bypass grafting ( cabg ) , 49 nonselected patients followed a cardiac rehabilitation program that included medical follow-up and physical training , both in outpatient groups and on an individual basis at home . the effect of the program on exercise test variables , coronary risk factors , and medication one year after surgery was compared to a nonexercised control group ( n = 98 ) . the study group showed less increase in the rate-pressure product , indicating a favorable effect on myocardial oxygen consumption ( 0.7 + / - 5.4 vs 2.8 + / - 5.6 , p less than .05 ) ; a lower frequency of angina at exercise testing ( 6 % vs 18 % , p less than .01 ) ; a reduction in resting systolic and diastolic blood pressure ( 9/4mmhg , p less than .01 ) ; fewer smokers ( 6 % vs 17 % , p less than .05 ) ; and fewer patients taking long-acting nitrates ( 0 % vs 10.2 % , p less than .05 ) . it is suggested , therefore , that an organized cardiac rehabilitation program may be advantageous after cabg . 
a frameshift mutation leading to type 1 antithrombin deficiency and thrombosis . type 1 antithrombin iii ( atiii ) deficiency , which is the commonest form of inherited atiii defect , is characterized by a quantitative reduction in both immunologically and functionally detectable protein . this condition is associated with a high incidence of thromboembolic disorder . previous investigations have shown that the atiii genes in the majority of cases are grossly intact , but the precise underlying molecular defects remain unknown . we have investigated the molecular basis of a type 1 atiii deficiency in an italian kindred by enzymatic amplification of the atiii gene sequences in affected family members and direct sequencing of the amplified genomic dna . a novel mutation , the deletion of a single t in the second position of codon 119 , was identified in each of the affected individuals . the resulting frameshift leads to a premature termination in codon 126 , effectively resulting in a null allele . 
streptococcal antibody cross-reactivity with hla-dr4 + ve b-lymphocytes . basis of the dr4 associated genetic predisposition to rheumatic fever and rheumatic heart disease ? [ published erratum appears in br j rheumatol 1991 jun ; 30 ( 3 ) :222 ] b-lymphocytes obtained from patients with either rheumatic fever or rheumatic heart disease and from normal subjects were reacted with serum obtained from rabbits immunized with streptococcal cell wall antigen . the presence of cytotoxicity was sought using an inverted phase microscope after differential uptake of eosin dye . the serum was found to be significantly more cytotoxic to hla-dr4 containing cells of both patients and normals compared with dr4 negative cells ( p less than 0.0001 ) . 
ultrasound demonstration of a superior mesenteric artery aneurysm in a patient with ehlers-danlos syndrome . a large aneurysm of the superior mesenteric artery was the presumed cause of abdominal pain in an 11-year-old girl with ehlers-danlos syndrome . this aneurysm was readily identified by ultrasonography , suggesting that this method could be the diagnostic technique of choice in this disorder . 
cardiac myosin-induced myocarditis . heart autoantibodies are not involved in the induction of the disease . we recently demonstrated that cardiac myosin is capable of inducing autoimmune myocarditis in genetically predisposed mice . this disease parallels coxsackievirus b3-induced autoimmune myocarditis in many respects and is associated with high-titer autoantibodies specific for cardiac myosin . the following lines of evidence suggest that these autoantibodies are not involved in the induction of autoimmune myocarditis : 1 ) immunoperoxidase staining of heart sections from cardiac myosin-immunized a/j and a.sw mice revealed igg depositions only along damaged muscle fibres in infiltrated areas , but not in intact tissue ; 2 ) myosin autoantibodies did not bind to the surface of viable cardiac myocytes isolated from mice , but only reacted with myocytes permeabilized with detergent ; 3 ) mice treated with a single high dose of cyclophosphamide , which reduces the humoral immune response , still developed severe myocarditis , despite the fact that their autoantibody titers were reduced to the level of adjuvant-injected controls ; and 4 ) passive transfer of high-titer myosin autoantibodies failed to induce myocarditis , although the titers in the recipients were comparable to those found in mice with cardiac myosin-induced disease . together , the results suggest that high-titer myosin autoantibodies are secondary rather than primary to the disease . 
occlusion of an " accessory " distal anterior cerebral artery during treatment of anterior communicating artery aneurysms . report of two cases . two cases are presented in which clip occlusion of a third distal anterior cerebral artery segment occurred during treatment of anterior communicating artery aneurysms . case histories , angiograms , operative descriptions , and postmortem findings are presented . the incidence of this anomalous vessel is reviewed . preoperative and intraoperative vigilance in determining the presence of this anomaly prior to clip placement is emphasized . 
risks factors for cerebral infarction in good-grade patients after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and surgery : a prospective study . a prospective series of 265 patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) of grades i to iii ( hunt and hess classification ) upon admission were evaluated as to neurological outcome and computerized tomography ( ct ) findings 1 to 3 years ( mean 1.4 years ) after the sah and surgery . a total of 73 patients underwent acute surgery ( within 72 hours after the bleed : days 0 to 3 ) , 86 were operated on subacutely ( between days 4 and 7 ) , and 91 had late surgery ( on day 8 or later ) . fifteen patients died before surgery was undertaken and another 20 patients died during the follow-up period . a total of 104 patients received nimodipine and the rest of the patients received either placebo ( 109 patients ) or no medication ( 52 patients ) . a logistical regression analysis revealed the following prognostic factors for cerebral infarction , in order of importance : the amount of blood on the primary ct scan ; postoperative angiographic vasospasm ; the timing of the operation ; and a history of hypertension . the use of nimodipine was associated with a significant reduction of cerebral infarcts visualized by ct scanning in patients who received intermediate or late surgery . in patients who underwent acute surgery no significant difference between the incidence of cerebral infarcts was observed . 
reduced platelet aggregability and thromboxane release after rebleeding in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage . serial blood samples were obtained from 80 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) to study adenosine diphosphate-induced platelet aggregation and associated thromboxane b2 release . the goal of the investigation was to detect whether reduced platelet function is involved in rebleeds . seventeen patients ( 21 % ) suffered a rebleed , six of those experiencing their first rebleed within 24 hours after sah . therefore , most platelet function studies were performed after rebleeds . thromboxane release was lower in patients with rebleeds than in the others , both before and after rebleeding , although statistical significance was reached only in samples collected after rebleeds . patients rebleeding within 24 hours after sah had lower platelet aggregability ( p = 0.037 ) than patients without a rebleed in the samples taken within 3 days after sah . the results suggest that reduced platelet aggregability and thromboxane release are involved in rebleeds following primary sah . 
long-term effects of nimodipine on cerebral infarcts and outcome after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and surgery . a total of 213 patients with verified aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) of grades i to iii ( hunt and hess classification ) were enrolled in a double-blind placebo-controlled trial to determine the effect of intravenous nimodipine on delayed ischemic deterioration and computerized tomography ( ct ) - visualized infarcts after sah and surgery . the administration of the drug or matching placebo was started immediately after the radiological diagnosis of a ruptured aneurysm had been made . of the 213 patients enrolled in the study , 58 were operated on early ( within 72 hours after the bleed : days 0 to 3 ) , 69 were operated on subacutely ( between days 4 and 7 ) , and 74 had late surgery ( on day 8 or later ) . eleven patients died before surgery was undertaken and one was not operated on . a follow-up examination with ct scanning , performed 1 to 3 years after the sah ( mean 1.4 years ) , revealed no significant differences in the overall outcome between the groups . however , nimodipine treatment was associated with a significantly lower incidence of deaths caused by delayed cerebral ischemia ( p = 0.01 ) and significantly lower occurrence of cerebral infarcts visualized by ct scanning in the whole population ( p = 0.05 ) , especially in patients without an associated intracerebral hemorrhage on admission ct scan ( p = 0.03 ) . 
the effect of alcohol in isolated blunt splenic trauma . the effect of alcohol on trauma patients is controversial , with numerous authors citing no difference in mortality in acutely intoxicated patients . the purpose of our study was to retrospectively investigate the effect of alcohol in adult patients with isolated blunt splenic injury . from 1980 through 1989 , 47 adult patients with splenic trauma as the only major injury were admitted to the trauma service . there were 37 males and ten females with a mean age of 29 years ( range , 15 to 61 ) . motor vehicle accidents were responsible for 44 ( 94 % ) of the injuries . group 1 consisted of 24 patients with a mean blood alcohol level of 185 mg/dl ( range , 15 to 380 ) . in group 2 there were 23 patients without detectable blood alcohol . there were no statistically significant differences between the two groups in age , abbreviated injury severity score , initial hematocrit , and grade of splenic injury . hypotension was present in 13 patients ( 55 % ) in group 1 versus six patients ( 26 % ) in group 2 ( p less than 0.05 ) . significant abnormalities in clotting studies were present on admission in six patients ( 25 % ) in the alcohol-detected group versus one in the other group ( p less than 0.05 ) . blood transfusion requirements in the first 24 hours were significantly greater in group 1 ( mean , 3.9 units ) versus group 2 ( mean , 0.5 units ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . if alcohol was present , there was much less chance for splenic conservation , as 18 patients ( 75 % ) underwent splenectomy versus seven patients ( 30 % ) in the nonalcohol group ( p less than 0.05 ) . there was one death and this occurred in a patient acutely intoxicated who suffered a cerebral infarct . 
conservative management of aortic lacerations due to blunt trauma . three patients with angiographically documented thoracic aortic lacerations were managed conservatively over 8 years due to the nonthreatening appearance of the injuries in two and the presence of an associated major closed head injury in a third . the lesion ( s ) resolved in one , diminished in another , and remained unchanged in the third . at least ten other cases managed similarly are recorded in the literature . in certain selected circumstances this approach may represent a viable alternative to the current standard of immediate surgical correction of aortic injuries . 
carotid-esophageal fistula following a penetrating neck injury : case report . carotid arterial injuries frequently are associated with injuries to adjacent structure of the neck , particularly the esophagus and trachea . complications from these repairs are common and fistula formation is herein described between the carotid artery and esophageal repair . 
intra-aortic balloon pump for combined myocardial contusion and thoracic aortic rupture . the coexistence of myocardial contusion and thoracic aortic injury is probably more common than recognized following rapid deceleration multisystem trauma . this report describes the successful application of intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation in a critically injured patient requiring emergent repair of a thoracic aortic tear complicated by ventricular failure due to cardiac contusion . 
thiazide diuretics and the risk of hip fracture . results from the framingham study . thiazide diuretics may preserve bone mass and prevent elderly women 's osteopenic fractures , but studies have not distinguished between thiazide preparations or examined former users . we performed a case-control study looking at thiazide use and subsequent hip fracture in postmenopausal female members of the framingham study cohort . cases who had experienced a first hip fracture ( n = 176 ) were compared with age-matched controls ( n = 672 ) . results showed a modest protective effect of any recent thiazide use ( not significant ) . however , recent pure thiazide users experienced significant protection against fracture ( adjusted odds ratio , 0.31 ; 95 % confidence interval , 0.11 to 0.88 ) , whereas recent users of combination drugs containing thiazides experienced no protection ( adjusted odds ratio , 1.16 ; 95 % confidence interval , 0.44 to 3.05 ) . combination drugs generally contained only 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide , suggesting that the small amount of thiazide was insufficient to preserve bone mass . former thiazide users were not protected against fracture . in sum , recent pure thiazide use in women protects against hip fracture . 
circadian variations in myocardial ischemia . implications for management . extended ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring in the patient 's customary environment provides clear evidence of circadian patterns in myocardial ischemic episodes . in patients with effort angina , the highest activity occurs between 6 am and noon . this coincides with peaks in diurnal variation of frequency of acute myocardial infarction , stroke , and sudden death . a number of potential underlying common triggering mechanisms , including catecholamine secretion , sympathetic nervous system activity , blood pressure , heart rate , cortisol secretion , and aggregability of platelets , exhibit similar surges . as a result of these coinciding morning peaks , myocardial oxygen demand is increased and oxygen supply reduced after a person arises in the morning . attention to this vulnerable period is merited in the timing and choice of medication , both to prevent or reduce ischemia and to modify potential disease-triggering mechanisms . 
the renin-angiotensin system and renal function in kidney transplantation . the use of converting enzyme inhibitors ( cei ) has permitted us to assess the role of the renin-angiotensin system in the control of arterial pressure and renal function in various conditions . in renal transplant recipients treated by azathioprine and steroids , the occurrence of cei-induced deterioration of renal function is highly suggestive of renal artery stenosis , whereas renal vasodilatation associated with unchanged glomerular filtration rate in response to cei is indicative of a significant role of native kidneys . in hypertensive recipients without renal artery stenosis , the absence of renal hemodynamic changes after cei may be predictive of subsequent chronic rejection . the information provided by cei is rather different in cyclosporine treated subjects . in this setting , no acute effect of cei on renal hemodynamics is detectable . whether the renal response to cei is similar in cyclosporine when compared to conventionally treated patients with renal artery stenosis remains to be demonstrated . 
angiotensin i-forming angiotensinogenases in extrarenal vasculature and in the kidney . the intention of this study was to characterize angiotensin i-forming angiotensinogenases ( aifas ) in rat extrarenal arterial walls and to clarify whether these enzymes are also present in the kidney . a further aim was to identify aifas in human vasculature and to establish whether they are affected in essential hypertension . sprague-dawley rats and vascular sections of patients undergoing corrective surgery were studied . enzyme kinetic assays were performed using angiotensin i radioimmunoassay and purified natural angiotensinogens . fast protein liquid chromatography was employed for biochemical characterization . a series of aifas with various isoelectric points , molecular weights and ph optima was detected in rat extrarenal vascular and , with differing distributions of enzyme activities , in renal tissues . in extrarenal arteries the main form of renal renin was present with a relatively low activity only . aifas were also demonstrable in human extrarenal vasculature and behaved like plasma renin in essential hypertension . the results indicate the existence of an intrinsic human vascular ras in extrarenal ( and renal ) arteries . extrarenal arterial aifas are not generally stimulated in essential hypertensives , as previously postulated . 
role of angiotensin in the renal vasoconstriction observed during the development of genetic hypertension . studies have examined renal function to determine the role of the kidney in the pathogenesis and maintenance phases of hypertension in the okamoto-aoki strain of spontaneously hypertensive rat ( shr ) . as compared to age-matched wistar-kyoto rats ( wky ) , 4 - to 6-week old shr are moderately hypertensive and have a reduced glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) and renal blood flow ( rbf ) , and an increased renal vascular resistance . cross-breeding studies indicate the reduction in rbf and gfr in young shr is genetically linked to the hypertension and thus may be of primary pathogenetic importance . the combination of an elevated vascular resistance and reduced rbf and gfr in young shr implicates increased activity of a vasoconstrictor system ( s ) , decreased activity of a vasodilator system ( s ) , or both . observations from several laboratories support the notion that endogenous angiotensin ii contributes to the renal vasoconstriction in young shr during the developmental phase of hypertension . acute and chronic inhibition of angiotensin converting enzyme reduce arterial pressure , reduce renal vascular resistance and increase renal blood flow in young and adult shr . renal vascular tone in shr is more dependent on angiotensin converting enzyme activity than that in wky . the ability of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors to produce renal vasodilation may be responsible , at least in part , for its antihypertensive effects . other studies indicate that renal vascular reactivity to angiotensin ii is exaggerated in young shr . the strain differences in renal reactivity to angiotensin ii can be abolished by cyclooxygenase inhibition with indomethacin , indicating that endogenous prostanoids counteract some of the constrictor action of angiotensin ii , with more pronounced buffering activity in wky . 
influences of angiotensin on renal function in renal vascular hypertension . the scope and the magnitude of the roles which angiotensin plays in the generation and maintenance of elevated blood pressure in models of renal vascular hypertension are continuing to expand . it is now clear that specific angiotensin dependent mechanisms contribute importantly to the pathophysiology of hypertension and altered renal function in models of two-kidney , one clip hypertension in rats . the generation of angiotensin in the local intrarenal environment of the kidney is a new and potentially important mechanism contributing to altered renal function in these models . application of antagonists of the renin-angiotensin system to rat models of renal vascular hypertension indicate that the effects of angiotensin attenuate renal hemodynamic and excretory behavior , particularly in the nonclipped kidney . further , angiotensin may attenuate the efficiency of autoregulation of renal hemodynamics in the nonclipped kidney . evidence that inhibition of angiotensin reverses or improves these altered hemodynamic and excretory functions indicate that angiotensin may contribute importantly to the pathophysiology of hypertension in these models by altering or impairing the ability of the nonclipped or normal kidney to excrete sodium and volume . 
sustained increased cerebral blood flow with prophylactic hypertensive hypervolemic hemodilution ( " triple-h " therapy ) after subarachnoid hemorrhage . delayed cerebral ischemia is the major cause of death and disability in patients who initially survive an aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) . in the present study , a protocol for prophylactic hypertensive hypervolemic hemodilution ( " triple-h " therapy ) was utilized in the treatment of sah , and the response of cerebral blood flow ( cbf ) was evaluated . serial cbf measurements , f1 and cbf15 , were performed using the xenon-133 inhalation technique to maximize therapy . surgery within 24 hours of subarachnoid hemorrhage was preferred . in 43 patients with sah , mean hemoglobin and hematocrit were lowered 3.0 + / - 0.3 g/dl and 8.9 + / - 0.5 % , respectively , over the first 24 hours . mean f1 and mean cbf15 over the same period increased 34.2 + / - 5.8 % and 21.2 + / - 3.6 % , respectively . the maximum mean increase in cbf was 47.2 + / - 4.7 % for f1 and 30.1 + / - 3.2 % for cbf15 . cerebral blood flow remained elevated during the 21 days after sah , irrespective of neurological grade on admission , age , sex , or angiographic arterial narrowing . this is the first report of a consistent method for establishing sustained improvement in cbf after sah . all patients managed in total compliance with the protocol remained neurologically stable or improved . two patients developed delayed ischemia and infarction because of the inability to sustain protocol requirements . thirty-six of the 43 patients ( 84 % ) were discharged capable of an independent lifestyle . triple-h therapy is a safe and effective modality for elevating and sustaining cbf after sah . in combination with early aneurysm surgery , it can minimize delayed cerebral ischemia and lead to an improved overall outcome . 
entrapment neuropathy of the median nerve at the level of the ligament of struthers . the presence of a supracondylar process and struthers ' ligament is a rare congenital anomaly that may cause compression of either the median nerve , the brachial artery , or both . the authors present a case in which the supracondylar process and struthers ' ligament compressed both the median nerve and the brachial artery . this case is unusual , in that the symptoms of compression of the brachial artery increased -- namely , the pulse intensity decreased and the pain increased with elbow flexion . 
surgical resection of intrinsic brain stem lesions : an overview . a major limitation to the effective treatment of intrinsic mass lesions of the brain stem has been the inability to clearly define the pathological anatomy radiographically . the improved soft tissue resolution offered by magnetic resonance imaging , as compared with axial computed tomography , now makes it possible not only to accurately distinguish anatomical relationships , but also to predict the pathological nature of the lesion . accordingly , we have been encouraged to pursue a more aggressive approach to intrinsic lesions of the brain stem that appear well circumscribed on magnetic resonance imaging scan . the object of this paper is to report the successful treatment of four intrinsic lesions of the brain stem and to present an overview of the relevant published experience . 
carotid-cavernous sinus fistula associated with a primitive trigeminal artery . carotid-cavernous sinus fistulas are not rare , but they have never been reported in association with persistent primitive trigeminal artery . we recently encountered such a case . the jaeger-hamby procedure was employed , with mandatory occlusion of the primitive trigeminal artery . 
a detachable balloon procedure for a traumatic internal carotid-internal jugular fistula : report of a case a case of a traumatic fistula between the internal carotid artery and the internal jugular vein is reported . the fistula was treated by detachable balloon occlusion and clipping of the internal carotid artery . 
diagnosis and management of familial dyslipoproteinemia in children and adolescents . cad results from atherosclerosis , a chronic disease process that has its origin in childhood . children and adolescents can be at higher risk for cad by virtue of being from families with premature cad or familial dyslipoproteinemias . the plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels result from a number of complex metabolic processes that are under the control of genetic and environmental ( e.g. , diet ) influences . the normal ranges of plasma lipids and lipoproteins in children are known , and children and adolescents with dyslipoproteinemia are ordinarily defined as those having levels of plasma total , ldl , or triglyceride above the 95th percentile or with a low hdl cholesterol below the 5th percentile . children of a parent with documented dyslipoproteinemia or with family history of premature cad may be screened in the fasting state any time after 2 years of age . following the exclusion of secondary causes of dyslipoproteinemia , the diagnosis of primary dyslipoproteinemia can be made . lipoprotein patterns are not diagnostic for a given genotype . efforts to determine further the biochemical defects responsible for a given phenotype have led to the investigation of gene coding for the apolipoproteins , the key enzymes in the lipoproteins pathways ( lpl , hdl , and lcat ) and the receptors that process lipoproteins , such as the ldl receptor and the chylomicron remnant receptor . from a practical standpoint , the diagnosis of the kind of dyslipoproteinemia in a child will depend upon the nature and severity of the dyslipoproteinemia , both in the child ( or adolescent ) and in parents and siblings . marked increases in plasma total and ldl cholesterol in the child and in at least one of the parents often reflect the presence of familial hypercholesterolemia , an inherited dominant condition due to a defect in the ldl receptor gene . the triglyceride levels are often normal . if the child has a different dyslipoproteinemia pattern from siblings and parents , then the diagnosis of familial combined hyperlipidemia or hyperapobetalipoproteinemia should be considered . most children with mild or borderline elevations in total and ldl cholesterol will have polygenic hypercholesterolemia . triglyceride problems in children and adolescents are relatively uncommon , particularly the more severe hypertriglyceridemia such as that found in lipoprotein lipase and apoc-ii deficiency , dysbetalipoproteinemia , and type v hyperlipoproteinemia . high levels of lp ( a ) lipoprotein , in isolation or in combination with other dyslipoproteinemia , accelerate risk for cad . low levels of hdl cholesterol in the absence of other abnormalities suggest the diagnosis of hypoalphalipoproteinemia . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
stridor : intracranial pathology causing postextubation vocal cord paralysis . during an 18-month period in a pediatric intensive care unit , nine patients with vocal cord paralysis were identified using flexible bronchoscopy . when tracheally extubated , each child was found to have stridor . the children ranged in age from 17 days to 5 1/2 years . two patients had unilateral paralysis , but neither required tracheostomy . seven patients displayed bilateral abductor vocal cord paralysis . of these , six patients required tracheostomy . surgical injury to the recurrent laryngeal nerve was the probable cause in two patients . the other seven patients had neurologic disorders with documented or suspected increases of intracranial pressure . four of the seven patients with bilateral abductor vocal cord paralysis regained cord mobility within 4 months . both children with unilateral cord paralysis have no stridor and vocalize well 1 year later . cord paralysis in the setting of intracranial hypertension probably results from compression or ischemia of the vagus nerve before it exits the skull . early visualization of the larynx should be done in patients who become stridulous when extubated , especially those with prior thoracic procedures or with neurologic disorders associated with intracranial hypertension . 
relationship between duration of spinal cord ischemia and postoperative neurologic deficits in animals . stagnara wake-up tests , blood flow measures , somatosensory evoked potentials ( seps ) , and neurogenic-motor evoked potentials ( nmeps ) were elicited from 20 hogs before and after spinal cord overdistraction at l3-l4 . overdistraction was maintained from 5 to 30 minutes after loss of nmeps . results suggest that the longer the duration of overdistraction the greater the likelihood of paraplegia . blood flow measures indicated that reduced perfusion was greatest at the distraction site but extended proximally and distally . finally , nmeps were more sensitive to onset of overdistraction and a more valid indicator of paraplegia than seps . nmeps should provide the surgeon with more time for initiation of intervention techniques than seps . because nmeps and seps provide information regarding different spinal cord tracts , the authors continue to use both methods for monitoring the functional integrity of the human spinal cord during corrective spine surgery . 
relationship among level of distraction , evoked potentials , spinal cord ischemia and integrity , and clinical status in animals . somatosensory evoked potentials ( seps ) and neurogenic-motor evoked potentials ( nmeps ) were recorded after overdistraction of the spinal cord at t5-t6 , t12-l1 , or l3-l4 . measures of spinal cord perfusion and clinical status were also administered . results indicated that stiffer spinal segments allowed less distraction than more flexible segments . seps and nmeps were lost quickly after overdistraction in stiff segments and slowly in more flexible segments . however , seps were less sensitive than nmeps to effects from overdistraction . spinal cord perfusion and integrity were consistent with reduced perfusion and structural damage after overdistraction in stiff segments ; extremely reduced perfusion but no structural changes in more flexible segments . the application of these results to the clinical situation was provided . 
greenfield filter as primary therapy for deep venous thrombosis and/or pulmonary embolism in patients with cancer . in 1985 , as a result of the high complication rate associated with anticoagulants in patients who have cancer and deep venous thrombosis ( dvt ) and/or pulmonary embolism ( pe ) , we established a policy of placing greenfield filters ( gfs ) as primary therapy instead of anticoagulation . since 1985 we have been asked to consult in the treatment of 18 patients with cancer and with dvt and/or pe , and we have placed a gf in each of these patients . this represented 34 % ( 18/53 ) of the filters placed during that same period . over the same 4-year period , 11 patients with cancer and dvt and/or pe underwent anticoagulation therapy . the purpose of this study was to compare the results of anticoagulation versus gf insertion in these two groups of patients . a significantly higher number of major complications ( n = 4 ) occurred in the anticoagulation group ( p less than 0.05 , fisher 's exact test ) than in the gf group ( n = 0 ) . the four complications that occurred in the anticoagulation group included three bleeding episodes ( tumor bleeding , gastrointestinal bleeding , and hip hematoma ) and one pe , despite adequate anticoagulation . two patients died as a direct result of these complications ( pe and gastrointestinal bleeding ) . the three patients with bleeding complications each required a transfusion of more than 3 units of blood . all four of the patients with complications had metastatic disease ( pancreatic carcinoma , chronic lymphocytic leukemia , prostate carcinoma , and uterine carcinoma ) . although this is a small , nonrandomized , nonprospective study , the data seem to indicate that gf placement is safer than anticoagulation for dvt or pe in patients with cancer and particularly in patients with metastatic disease . we conclude that gf insertions may be a better primary treatment than anticoagulation . 
therapy of diseased stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats with nimodipine . we investigated the therapeutic effect of nimodipine or parathyroidectomy in old , diseased stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats by observing 98 male 1-year-old rats over 5 months . after stroke had occurred , the rats were divided into three groups : 1 ) parathyroidectomy , 2 ) nimodipine , and 3 ) controls . in the nimodipine group , the rats survived longer than those in the other groups . blood pressure of the controls did not differ from the nimodipine-treated and parathyroidectomy animals . the increase in calcium content of brain and kidney tissues and of plasma renin activity , urea , and creatinine was attenuated by nimodipine or parathyroidectomy . the histology of the kidneys revealed widespread fibrinoid necrosis of arteries in all rats . in the nimodipine-treated or parathyroidectomy groups , healing of the lesions was detectable . cerebral lesions were mainly characterized by fibrinoid necrosis . nimodipine-treated as well as parathyroidectomied animals showed significantly fewer hypertensive cerebral lesions . in old , diseased stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats , therapy with nimodipine or parathyroidectomy increased their survival rate . the cerebrovascular and renovascular lesions of treated animals were attenuated , and morphologic signs of healing were observed . reduction of calcium overload by nimodipine or parathyroidectomy , even in an advanced stage of disease , had a therapeutic effect . 
efficacy of nimodipine in cerebral ischemia or hemorrhage . our studies showed that in an appropriate dose , nimodipine increased local cerebral blood flow with no corresponding increase in local metabolism . nimodipine treatment given before experimental ischemic insult , resulting from either vascular occlusion or intracranial hemorrhage or after subarachnoid hemorrhage , maintained or improved blood flow and minimized the severity of subsequent brain damage . lack of benefit from nimodipine treatment after the insult may occur because the inexorable progression of events leading to ischemic neuronal damage , once initiated , can not be arrested . on the other hand , pharmacokinetic factors may be important , and post-treatment efficacy may depend on administration protocols that achieve an adequate concentration in ischemic tissue sufficiently soon after an insult . our findings are compatible with the benefit of nimodipine being due to an improvement in blood flow that reduces the severity of ischemia . however , they do not exclude the possibility that treatment may minimize the accumulation of calcium in damaged cells as a result of " cytoprotective " effects . 
thromboxane biosynthesis in cardiovascular diseases . sudden fissuring of an atherosclerotic plaque has been suggested as the primary trigger of transient spontaneous ischemia in both the coronary and cerebral circulation . measurements of urinary 11-dehydro-txb2 and 2,3-dinor-txb2 , as well as results of aspirin trials , have suggested that episodic platelet activation at the site of this acute vascular lesion is mediated , at least partly , by enhanced thromboxane ( tx ) a2 biosynthesis . thus , episodic increases in metabolite excretion have been detected in unstable angina . aspirin ( 75-325 mg/day ) prevents about one third of all fatal and nonfatal thrombotic events in this setting . that a similar " dynamic " thrombotic process occurs during the early phase of acute myocardial infarction is suggested by thromboxane metabolite measurements and by the results of the isis-2 trial showing a similar impact of short-term aspirin therapy to that seen in unstable angina . percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty is associated with transiently enhanced txa2 biosynthesis and aspirin-suppressable periprocedural thrombotic complications . on the other hand , both non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and type iia hypercholesterolemia are associated with a relatively reproducible and persisting abnormality of txa2-dependent platelet function . this association is likely to reflect a systemic rather than localized stimulus to platelet activation and a continuous rather than episodic alteration . low-dose ( 50 mg/day ) aspirin can largely suppress thromboxane metabolite excretion in both diseases . thus , low-dose aspirin and/or selective prostaglandin h2/txa2-receptor antagonists may be important tools to test the hypothesis that txa2-dependent platelet activation represents an important transducer of the enhanced thrombotic risk associated with these metabolic abnormalities . 
effect of bay u 3405 , a new thromboxane antagonist , on collagen-induced thromboembolism in rabbits . bay u 3405 [ ( 3r ) -3 - ( 4-fluorophenylsulfonamido ) -1,2,3,4 - tetrahydro-9 - carbazolepropanoic acid ] potently inhibits platelet aggregation , thromboxane a2-induced contraction of smooth muscles , and coronary artery thrombosis . we have previously demonstrated inhibition of arachidonic acid-induced sudden death by bay u 3405 . the purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of bay u 3405 on thromboembolism provoked by collagen . collagen fibrils dissolved in an isotonic glucose solution were injected into a marginal ear vein of anesthetized rabbits . sudden death occurred within a few minutes due to elevated thromboxane a2 levels causing intravascular platelet aggregation and myocardial ischemia . in the vehicle-treated group , 100 % of the animals died . one of the most prominent parameters was the massive fall in blood pressure . all animals pretreated with 10 mg/kg orally bay u 3405 survived , showing only a transient hypotensive effect . tracings of the electrocardiogram and heart rate were unchanged . bay u 3405 will therefore be useful to elucidate the role of thromboxane a2 in various cardiovascular and respiratory diseases . 
effects of the novel thromboxane antagonist bay u 3405 on experimental coronary artery disease . bay u 3405 is a novel thromboxane receptor blocker . the present investigations describe its effects on experimental canine and porcine cardiac damage . in anesthetized dogs , a coronary artery was occluded for 6 hours and reperfused for 30 minutes . bay u 3405 was administered intravenously 15 minutes after occlusion ( 1 mg/kg ) followed by infusion of 10 mg/kg/hr from 30 minutes after ligature . in a second study , the effects of bay u 3405 on endoperoxide analogue u-46619-induced coronary constriction were studied in anesthetized , open-chest pigs . bay u 3405 reduced myocardial infarct expansion by 65 % ( p less than 0.01 ) assessed with biochemical staining . hemodynamics and collateral blood flow were unaffected . however , reperfusion arrhythmias were suppressed . in porcine experiments , 1 mg/kg bay u 3405 , given intravenously or intraduodenally , antagonized u-46619-induced coronary vasoconstriction over 5 hours . the studies demonstrate anti-ischemic and antivasoconstrictor properties of bay u 3405 probably due to binding to platelet and smooth muscle thromboxane receptors . this may have clinical relevance in angina pectoris and myocardial infarction . 
relevance of focal cerebral ischemia models . experience with fibrinolytic agents . despite the limitations of individual ischemia models , experience with fibrinolytic agents suggests that 1 ) early intervention with rt-pa may result in rapid thrombolysis , functional recovery , and decreased mortality in small animal stroke thromboembolism models , 2 ) rt-pa has no general effect on clinical recovery following mca occlusion and reperfusion in the nonhuman primate at dose rates capable of producing very high circulating rt-pa levels , while u-pa has an apparently salutary effect , and 3 ) intravenous infusion of rt-pa or u-pa early after ischemia/infarction in several model systems is not associated with significant intracerebral hemorrhage . the true clinical relevance of these general impressions must await the completion of human studies and studies in well-conceived models designed to define the vascular consequences to be expected from reperfusion achievable with thrombolytic agents . 
aspirin reduces the growth of medial and neointimal thickenings in balloon-injured rat carotid arteries . we analyzed the effect of aspirin on the growth of experimentally induced vascular thickenings in rat carotid arteries . vascular thickenings were induced by denudation of the endothelium in the left carotid artery with a balloon catheter . administration of aspirin-rich food ( 17.4 g/kg body wt/day ) was started 1 week before and continued 2 weeks after injury . nine rats were used . a control group of equal size received normal food . sizes of the tunica media , the neointima , and the open vessel lumen were measured on cross sections of carotid segments with the aid of a videomorphometry system . the results show that in the aspirin group , neointimal lesions are significantly smaller than in the control group ( 0.14 mm2 versus 0.23 mm2 ; p less than 0.5 ) . thickenings of the tunica media are also reduced ( 0.11 mm2 versus 0.12 mm2 ; p less than 0.5 ) . it is suggested that aspirin reduces both medial hypertrophy and neointimal outgrowth in injury-induced atherosclerosis . 
effects of dietary calcium on nimodipine-sensitive calcium channel function in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats . we studied the effects of dietary ca2 + on blood pressure , survival , and calcium channel function to investigate cardiovascular disease mechanisms in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats . beginning at 3 weeks of age , rats were fed high sodium chloride diets ( 8.0 % ) in combination with either high ( 2.0 % ) or low ( 0.2 % ) ca2 + diets for 8 weeks . at 12 weeks of age , survival was 90 % in the high ca2 + group and 30 % in the low ca2 + group . the higher blood pressure and lower survival in the low ca2 + group suggest an intensification of altered vascular muscle cell mechanisms by a dietary ca2 + deficit . nimodipine ( 1-10 nm ) effectively blocked l-type ca2 + currents in isolated vascular muscle cells from both groups . contraction of isolated cells that were not patch clamped to high potassium solutions were also blocked by 1 nm nimodipine . disappearance of the l-type ca2 + channel current was accelerated by holding at depolarizing potentials ( positive to -50 mv ) and by depolarizing steps to 0 mv . nimodipine block of the l-type ca2 + currents in vascular muscle is believed to contribute substantially to antihypertensive properties and stroke prevention , actions that may develop fully only in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats on a diet of at least normal ca2 + . 
effect of naproxen and sulindac on blood pressure response to atenolol . twenty-eight patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension well controlled by atenolol entered a five-week , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of the effects of sulindac and naproxen on blood pressure ( bp ) control . atenolol alone was administered during weeks 1 , 3 , and 5 . naproxen or sulindac was administered with atenolol during week 2 , with crossover during week 4 . data were analyzed for 27 of the patients ( one dropped out after developing a skin rash ) . naproxen significantly increased the systolic bp compared with placebo ( mean 4.0 mm hg ; 95 percent confidence interval , 1.1-7 .0 ; p less than 0.05 ) . there were no significant differences in systolic bp during sulindac administration compared with placebo or naproxen . no significant effects on diastolic bp were observed . weight was increased by naproxen and sulindac compared with placebo ( mean 0.6-0 .8 kg , p less than 0.05 ) , although not to a clinically significant extent . one-week therapy with naproxen has a greater potential than sulindac to increase systolic bp in well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving atenolol ; however , the increase is minor and unlikely to be of clinical significance . 
toxic carbamazepine concentrations following cardiothoracic surgery and myocardial infarction . carbamazepine is being used more frequently in the u.s. as an initial agent of choice to treat generalized tonic-clonic , mixed , and partial seizures with complex symptomatology . carbamazepine is extensively metabolized in the liver ; however , there is little information available on its pharmacokinetics in patients following surgery or myocardial infarction , or in those with liver disease . we report a case of a patient who attained toxic carbamazepine serum concentrations ( ranging from 18.2 to 21.5 micrograms/ml ) two days after cardiothoracic surgery and an intraoperative myocardial infarction , and experienced lethargy , diplopia , dysarthria , diaphoresis , and horizontal and downgaze nystagmus . these alterations in serum carbamazepine concentration normalized ten days after surgery . they may have been due to a combination of changes in protein binding and decreased elimination due to altered intrinsic hepatic clearance . with carbamazepine achieving a more prominent place in anticonvulsant therapy , the influence of various procedures and disease processes on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of carbamazepine , as well as the clinical consequences of such changes , need further investigation . 
hiv-associated myocarditis . pathology and immunopathology . autopsy studies of aids ( acquired immune deficiency syndrome ) patients showed a high incidence of myocarditis . to attain a better understanding of the pathogenesis , the pathology and immunopathology of nine endomyocardial biopsies with active myocarditis from 18 human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - positive patients were systematically characterized . these were compared with 17 biopsies with active myocarditis from patients without aids risk factors . in both groups , the myocarditis consisted of either multifocal or interstitial infiltrates of small lymphocytes and isolated myocyte necrosis . the lymphocytes consisted of t cells ( cd2 + , cd3 + ) and cells not identified by the usual markers . b cells , monocytes , cd4 + cells , and natural killer ( nk ) cells were only rarely observed . all of the hiv-positive patients but only 7 of 17 non-hiv patients had cd8 + lymphocytes in the infiltrates ( p less than 0.01 ) . the arteriolar endothelium demonstrated induced class i ( hla-a , b , c ) and ii ( hla-dr ) antigens in both groups . in situ hybridization for hiv-1 failed to identify the virus in the specimens . the immunopathology is consistent with a cell-mediated injury to the myocytes in hiv-positive patients and is similar to a subgroup of myocarditis in the non-hiv group . 
high-dose epinephrine improves outcome from pediatric cardiac arrest . study objective : animal studies suggest that the standard dose of epinephrine ( sde ) for treatment of cardiac arrest in human beings may be too low . we compared the outcome after sde with that after high-dose epinephrine ( hde ) in children with refractory cardiac arrest . design : prospective intervention versus historic control groups . type of participants : two similar groups of 20 consecutive patients each ( median ages , 2.5 and 3 years ) with witnessed cardiac arrest who remained in arrest after at least two sdes ( 0.01 mg/kg ) . interventions : treatment with an additional sde versus hde ( 0.2 mg/kg ) . measurements and main results : the rates of return of spontaneous circulation and long-term survival were compared . fourteen of the hde group ( 70 % ) had return of spontaneous circulation , whereas none of the sde group did ( p less than .001 ) . eight children survived to discharge after hde , and three were neurologically intact at follow-up . no significant toxicity from hde was observed . conclusion : hde provided a higher return of spontaneous circulation rate and a better long-term outcome than sde in our series of pediatric cardiac arrest . hde may warrant incorporation into standard resuscitation protocols at an early enough point to prevent irreversible brain injury . 
evaluation and management of supraventricular tachycardia in children . emergency physicians may be called on to resuscitate acute complications in pediatric patients with congenital heart disease . supraventricular tachycardia , with or without hemodynamic decompensation , is one of the most serious complications . we present the case of a 22-month-old boy with a history of single ventricle who presented to our institution with a history of syncope and hemodynamically stable supraventricular tachycardia . initial attempts at pharmacologic conversion with propranolol and verapamil failed . the arrhythmia was terminated in response to an iv fluid bolus and dopamine infusion and probably resulted from a combination of anemia , hypovolemia , and impaired contractility . appropriate evaluation and management relating to the cre of acute supraventricular tachycardia in children are discussed . 
systemic atropine administration during cardiac arrest does not cause fixed and dilated pupils . objectives : systemic administration of atropine during cpr may postpone brain death determination because of its reputed ability to produce fixed and dilated pupils . we studied the effect of atropine administered in the usual doses as an adjunct to endotracheal intubation and for cardiac arrest to determine if it would interfere with neurological assessment . design : two groups of children were studied . group 1 consisted of 28 patients who received atropine ( 0.03 + / - 0.003 mg/kg ) prior to endotracheal intubation . group 2 consisted of 21 patients previously without evidence of brainstem disease who suffered a witnessed arrest and had prompt return of spontaneous circulation and received an atropine dose of 0.03 + / - 0.01 mg/kg . results : in group 1 , pupillary size averaged 4.02 + / - 0.78 mm before and 4.75 mm + / - .84 mm after atropine ( p less than .001 ) . in group 2 , the pupillary examination was conducted 30 minutes after return of spontaneous circulation . the pupillary diameter was 4.80 + / - 0.91 mm . all pupils were reactive to light in both groups . conclusion : atropine administration in conventional dose causes slight pupillary dilation but does not abolish pupillary light reactivity . 
echocardiographic left ventricular mass and electrolyte intake predict arterial hypertension . objective : to identify predictors of arterial hypertension . patients : one hundred thirty-two normotensive adults from a large employed population . methods : echocardiography , standard blood tests , and 24-hour urine collection , at baseline and after an interval of 3 to 6 years ( mean , 4.7 + / - 0.8 years ) . results : at follow-up , 15 subjects ( 11 % ; 7 men , 8 women ) had a systolic blood pressure greater than 140 mm hg or a diastolic blood pressure greater than 90 mm hg or both ( mean , 143 + / - 7 and 87 + / - 6 mm hg , respectively ) . at baseline , subjects who developed hypertension had a greater left ventricular mass index than those who did not ( 92 + / - 25 compared with 77 + / - 19 g/m2 body surface area ; p less than 0.005 ) and higher 24-hour urinary sodium/potassium excretion ratio ( 3.6 + / - 1.7 compared with 2.6 + / - 1.4 ; p less than 0.04 ) ; there were no differences in race , initial age , systolic or diastolic blood pressure , coronary risk factors , or plasma renin activity . the likelihood of developing hypertension rose from 3 % in the lowest quartile of sex-adjusted left ventricular mass index to 24 % in the highest quartile ( p less than 0.005 ) ; a parallel trend was less regular for quartiles of the sodium/potassium excretion ratio ( p less than 0.04 ) . in multivariate analyses , follow-up systolic pressures in all subjects and in the 117 who remained normotensive were predicted by initial age , systolic blood pressure , black race , and sex-adjusted left ventricular mass index ; final diastolic blood pressure was predicted by its initial value , plasma triglyceride levels , urinary sodium/potassium ratio , low renin activity , black race , and plasma glucose level . conclusions : echocardiographic left ventricular mass in normotensive adults is directly related to the risk for developing subsequent hypertension . left ventricular mass improves prediction of future systolic pressure , whereas diastolic pressure is more related to initial metabolic status . black race is also an independent determinant of higher subsequent blood pressure . 
national education programs working group report on the management of patients with hypertension and high blood cholesterol . cardiovascular diseases are responsible for nearly one of every two deaths in the united states , and have been estimated to cost more than $ 127 billion annually . epidemiologic data have shown that persons with fewer or lower levels of the risk factors for cardiovascular disease are less likely to have a cardiovascular event . in addition , the greater the level of any single risk factor , the greater is the chance of incurring disease . moreover , a combination of risk factors creates a synergistic effect , further increasing risk . conversely , reducing the number and level of risk factors prevents death and disability from cardiovascular diseases . this report addresses the management of patients with several cardiovascular risk factors , placing a special emphasis on hypertension and high blood cholesterol . nonpharmacologic therapy , in the form of proper diet , exercise , and smoking cessation , is the foundation for management of both hypertension and high blood cholesterol . clinicians should use these nondrug measures as definitive or adjunctive therapy . pharmacologic agents can be very beneficial in managing the risks imposed by elevated levels of blood pressure or blood cholesterol . in selecting medications , it is important to weight their benefits , costs , and potential untoward effects . clinicians must consider these issues in managing patients with several risk factors but should not avoid managing any risk factor or quickly dismiss any particular mode of therapy simply because of the potential for adverse effects . 
noninvasive detection of occlusive disease of the carotid siphon and middle cerebral artery . recently , transcranial doppler sonography has been introduced into clinical practice for noninvasive investigation of the large intracranial arteries . to determine its accuracy for detection of stenosing or occluding lesions , 133 consecutive patients were studied by both transcranial doppler sonography and selective cerebral arteriography . statistical analysis of findings was done separately for various arterial segments . high values for sensitivity and specificity were found for detecting obstruction of the carotid siphon and main stem of the middle cerebral artery . diagnostic reliability of transcranial doppler sonography was also confirmed by the calculation of a chance-corrected measure of agreement ( kappa ) , which was close to + 1 in all subanalyses . transcranial doppler sonography seems to be a valuable tool for noninvasive detection of intracranial lesions of the middle cerebral artery and carotid siphon . 
cutaneous vasculitis associated with pheochromocytoma . we describe a patient who presented with constitutional symptoms , severe hypertension , and purpuric lesions over the knees , thighs , and penis . the patient was eventually diagnosed as having multiple endocrine neoplasia type ii , with cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis . the cutaneous vasculitis persisted despite treatment with high-dose systemic corticosteroids , but rapidly resolved after the removal of bilateral pheochromocytomas . this case demonstrates cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis in association with pheochromocytoma . 
complete heart block and severe aortic incompetence in relapsing polychondritis : clinicopathologic findings . we describe a patient with relapsing polychondritis who developed fatal cardiac involvement comprising complete heart block , acute aortic incompetence , and cardiovascular collapse . pathologic studies showed fibrosis of the cardiac conducting system and necrotizing inflammation of the aortic valve , features not previously described in relapsing polychondritis , as well as evidence of coronary artery vasculitis . 
ventricular tachycardia in two patients with aids receiving ganciclovir ( dhpg ) . we report two cases of patients who developed ventricular tachycardia while receiving intravenous infusions of ganciclovir [ 9 - ( 1,3-dihydroxy-2-propoxy ) methylguanine , dhpg ] . worsening cytomegalovirus infection prompted renewal of ganciclovir therapy under close cardiac monitoring in one of these patients , and ventricular tachycardia recurred . the close temporal relationship between administration of the drug and onset of the arrhythmias in conjunction with the absence of other factors known to predispose to arrhythmias suggest that ganciclovir may have played a role in the development of arrhythmias in these patients . the clinical courses of the patients are discussed , as are autopsy results . 
new angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors . their role in the management of hypertension . the introduction of orally active angiotensin converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitors has revolutionized the treatment of hypertensive disorders and provided an effective alternative for the management of congestive heart failure ( chf ) . by interfering with the formation of angiotensin ii , the active agent of the renin system , ace inhibitors block the system 's vasoconstrictive and sodium-retaining effects , with a consequent reduction in systemic blood pressure . the net effect is improved blood flow and reduced cardiac work . thus , ace inhibitors are likely to improve cardiac work capacity and quality of life . their mechanism of action differs markedly from that of traditional antihypertensive agents which lower blood pressure while reducing cardiac output and blood flow . since the primary action of ace inhibitors is to block the renin system , a dramatic response to monotherapy suggests a large renin factor while the lack of a response suggests a low-renin state more amenable to treatment with a diuretic or calcium antagonist . because of their many attributes , ace inhibitors are increasingly used as first-line therapy for the treatment of hypertension or chf . the prototype orally active ace inhibitor , captopril , is a sulfhydryl compound with a good safety profile at the recommended dosages but reported toxicity at higher dosages . second-generation ace inhibitors ( eg , enalapril and quinapril ) are more potent sulfhydryl-free esters with a greater affinity for the converting enzyme . these newer agents are pro-drugs requiring ester hydrolysis to form the active free acid compound . 
renal protective effects of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors . renal dysfunction and hypertension are closely associated . hypertension causes approximately 25 % of end-stage renal disease ( esrd ) and develops in virtually every patient with advanced renal insufficiency from any cause . although normalization of blood pressure can reduce mortality from uremia and ameliorate the progression of renal impairment in patients with established renal insufficiency from hypertension and diabetes , antihypertensive therapy alone is not totally effective in preventing progressive compromise of renal function -- especially in blacks and diabetics , who are at high risk for developing esrd . of particular promise is the rapidly increasing understanding of the intrarenal autocrine and paracrine functions of angiotensin ii produced locally by a tissue renin-angiotensin system . consistent and convincing experimental data have demonstrated that angiotensin ii plays many roles in the control of renal function and the kidney 's response to injury . the intrarenal effects of angiotensin ii include : 1 ) increase in the efferent arteriolar tone , resulting in increased glomerular capillary pressure , 2 ) promotion of mesangial cell contraction , 3 ) stimulation of proximal tubular na + reabsorption , and 4 ) possible growth hormone effects leading to hypertrophy or hyperplasia of vascular smooth muscle . because of their favorable intrarenal hemodynamic effects ( particularly reduction of glomerular capillary pressure ) , ace inhibitors may provide a renal protective effect in addition to their systemic antihypertensive effects . clinical trials evaluating the effect of ace inhibition on the progression of renal insufficiency in hypertensives and diabetics are currently under way . favorable results could lead to a significant decrease in the morbidity and mortality associated with hypertension . 
use of quinapril in the elderly patient . quinapril hydrochloride is a nonsulfhydryl angiotensin converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitor that has been extensively tested and found effective when administered once-a-day to hypertensive patients of both sexes and all degrees of hypertension and cardiac compromise , including those with left ventricular hypertrophy , with and without congestive heart failure . observations with earlier ace inhibitors led to reports that this class of drugs was relatively ineffective in older hypertensive patients . to ascertain the role of quinapril ( greater than or equal to 10 mg/day ) in older patients , its blood pressure-lowering effects in 1,175 hypertensive patients less than or equal to 65 years of age were compared with those in 304 patients greater than 65 years of age . an excellent response was observed in patients greater than 65 years of age with mild to moderate hypertension ( diastolic bp , 95 to 105 mm hg ) and moderate to severe hypertension ( diastolic bp , 106 to 115 mm hg ) . the reductions in blood pressure achieved with quinapril were at least comparable to those obtained in the younger hypertensives , and were numerically ( but not statistically ) greater in the mild to moderate group ( -14 mm hg v-12 mm hg ) . in addition , the percentage of patients who experienced adverse experiences was lower in the greater than 65 group than in the less than or equal to 65 group ( 15 % v 19 % ) . the main adverse experiences reported included dizziness , headache , cough , fatigue , and hypotension . these findings indicate that quinapril is at least as safe and effective in older hypertensives as in younger patients . 
quinapril in chronic heart failure . angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are now firmly established in the treatment of patients with chronic heart failure ( chf ) . their beneficial acute and chronic hemodynamic effects are not associated with reflex tachycardia or drug tolerance . angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors produce symptomatic improvement and improve exercise capacity in all grades of heart failure . they also improve the prognosis of patients with severe heart failure . quinapril is a recently introduced , nonsulfhydryl ace inhibitor , whose intermediate half-life makes it well-suited for the treatment of patients with chf . the acute and chronic hemodynamic effects of quinapril are similar to those of other ace inhibitors . in a large , multicenter , randomized , placebo-controlled study of 225 patients with mild to moderate chf , 10 to 40 mg/day quinapril significantly improved clinical status and exercise capacity in a dose-related manner . the incidence of side effects did not differ significantly from that of placebo . the initial studies with quinapril are promising and warrant further clinical investigation of this compound . 
elevated insulin , norepinephrine , and neuropeptide y in hypertension . to investigate the relationship between insulin and sympathetic activity , plasma norepinephrine , neuropeptide y , serum glucose and insulin concentrations were measured in ten age - , weight - , and sex-matched normotensive and untreated hypertensive subjects at fasting and 2 h following ingestion of a 75 g oral glucose dose . hypertensives had higher fasting serum insulin ( 27 + / - 6 v 12 + / - 2 microu/ml ; p = .02 ) and plasma norepinephrine ( 356 + / - 38 v 235 + / - 35 pg/ml ; p = .03 ) concentrations than normotensives . glucose load increased serum insulin ( p less than .001 ) and plasma norepinephrine concentrations ( p = .001 ) in both groups and hypertensives had still higher postglucose insulin ( p = .003 ) and norepinephrine levels ( p = .003 ) than normotensives . fasting neuropeptide y was higher in hypertensives than in normotensives ( p = .03 ) and correlated with age in both groups ( r = 0.7 ; r = 0.77 ) . postglucose serum insulin correlated positively with plasma norepinephrine ( r = 0.75 ; p = .013 ) in normotensives , but these parameters correlated negatively in hypertensives ( r = -0.7 ; p = .036 ) . we hypothesize that elevated plasma norepinephrine and neuropeptide y levels reflect an increased level of sympathetic nervous activity in hypertensives , which in turn may be responsible for the abnormal relationship between plasma ne and insulin levels . 
immunohistochemical study of vascular lesions in severe hypertension induced by doca and salt administration to spontaneously hypertensive rats . in order to evaluate whether immunoglobulin deposition in vessels plays some role in the development of vascular lesions in severe hypertension , an immunohistochemical study was performed in spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shrs ) , to which deoxycorticosterone acetate ( doca ) and salt were administered . doca and salt rapidly induced severe hypertensive vascular lesions , including necrotizing arteriolitis and productive endarteritis . in these rats , considerable deposits of igg and igm were found in the small arteries and arterioles of the kidneys . these deposits were accompanied by complement ( c3 ) , and could be eluted by acid incubation . they were localized in periodic acid-schiff-positive insudative lesions , which were thought to be an early phase of the hypertensive vascular lesions . these results suggest that the immunoglobulins might be bound to an unknown antigen in the vascular lesions and that some immunological mechanism mediated by the immunoglobulins is involved in the development of vascular lesions in severe hypertension . 
dietary calcium , vascular reactivity , and genetic hypertension in the lyon rat strain . in order to examine the relationship existing between dietary calcium and the development of hypertension , we developed a long-term study in the lyon hypertensive rat strain ( lh ) and two control strains , the lyon normotensive ( ln ) and low blood pressure rats ( ll ) given enriched ( hca , 2.5 % ) , deprived ( lca , 0.03 % ) and normal ( nca , 0.6 % ) calcium diets . evolution of body weight , systolic blood pressure ( bp ) , plasma calcium and magnesium was monitored from 4 to 23 weeks of age . total cardiovascular reactivity and contractile response of isolated aorta to norepinephrine were measured at 23 weeks of age . lh rats on hca diet failed to develop hypertension ( bp less than 150 mm hg ) whereas lh rats on lca diet exhibited higher blood pressure levels than their controls fed the nca diet . moreover , in ln rats hca diet slightly decreased bp whereas lca had no effect . in the ll rats , on the contrary , only lca diet slightly increased bp . in vivo responsiveness to ne was significantly higher in lh compared to ll and ln rats fed a nca diet . hca and lca diets both induced a significant decrease in this response in lh rats . hca diet increased the response in ln rats but decreased it in ll . in contrast , at the same age , the in vitro contractile response of isolated aorta to ne was significantly decreased in lh compared to ln and ll rats receiving nca diet . moreover in lh and ln rats on hca diet the contractile response was markedly increased but no significant difference was observed with lca diet . 
sodium sensitive and sodium retaining hypertension . the differences between sodium sensitive and sodium retaining hypertension were theoretically considered using a water tank model of body fluid volume-blood pressure regulation . if an outlet valve is attached to a tank with a base area corresponding to the reciprocal of total peripheral resistance ( tpr ) and water is poured into this tank at a rate corresponding to the amount of na + intake , then equilibrium should be achieved at a certain water level , volume and output from the outlet , which represent mean arterial pressure ( map ) , cardiac output ( co ) and urinary na + excretion . the height of the outlet from the tank bottom and the size cross-sectional area , of the outlet correspond to the x-intercept and slope of the renal function ( pressure-natriuresis ) curve , respectively . in both nonsodium sensitive hypertension , due to the shift of the curve toward a higher blood pressure level ( elevated height of the outlet ) without change in the slope ( size of the outlet ) , and sodium sensitive hypertension , due to the depressed slope of the curve ( reduced outlet size ) , not only map ( water level ) but also co ( water volume ) are increased , resulting in sodium retaining hypertension , if tpr ( reciprocal of base area ) remained unchanged , while co is relatively unchanged , resulting in nonsodium retaining hypertension , if tpr is elevated . thus , the map and its sensitivity to sodium intake is determined by the renal function curve . since body fluid volume is determined by both the renal function curve and tpr , however , changes in tpr during the development of hypertension is a major factor in determining whether or not the body fluid volume has to change only a small amount or a large amount . therefore , the sodium sensitivity of blood pressure and sodium retention must be considered separately . 
hemodynamic and endocrine effects of mental stress in untreated borderline hypertension . mental arithmetic and mirror tracing were compared in 40 untreated patients with borderline hypertension , tested in random sequence in standardized protocols . both tasks significantly increased systolic and diastolic blood pressure , heart rate , cardiac index , plasma renin , and decreased peripheral resistance . mental arithmetic also increased cholesterol , triglycerides and hdl ; plasma catecholamines were not changed significantly . lipid changes were correlated with blood pressure changes . these methods will be useful in exploring the relationships between hemodynamic reactivity to stress , and the presence and progression of atherosclerosis , as well as testing the effects of antihypertensive drugs on stress-induced changes that may influence atherosclerotic complications of hypertension . 
the role of protein kinase c and calcium in the regulation of norepinephrine release from the vascular adrenergic neurons in hypertension . this study was designed to investigate the role of protein kinase c and calcium in vascular adrenergic transmission in hypertension . in perfused mesenteric vasculatures of spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shr , 7 to 10 weeks old ) and age-matched wistar-kyoto rats ( wky ) , we have examined the effects of the protein kinase c inhibitor h-7 on endogenous norepinephrine release and vascular responsiveness during nerve stimulation . endogenous norepinephrine release and pressor responses during periarterial nerve stimulation were significantly greater in shr than in wky . the protein kinase c inhibitor h-7 inhibited the stimulation-induced norepinephrine release and pressor responses in a dose-dependent manner . the magnitude of these suppressive responses were more pronounced in shr than in wky . calcium removal from extracellular fluid also reduced the norepinephrine release more strongly in shr than in wky . these results demonstrate that the regulation of norepinephrine release might be more dependent on protein kinase c and calcium in the blood vessels of shr , which could contribute , at least partially , to the pathogenesis of this form of hypertension . 
vascular renin and hypertension . uptake versus synthesis . conventional radioimmunoassay techniques demonstrated in the aortic wall a renin-like activity which is derived from plasma but has a longer half-life than plasma renin . blood pressure elevation after renin injection into nephrectomized rats correlates better with aortic renin than with plasma renin . vascular and other extrarenal tissue can also synthesize renin . using a ribonuclease protection technique for the detection of renin messenger rna we have been able to demonstrate that a wide variety of extrarenal tissues contain the renin message . in at least two of these , the brain and the liver , renin messenger rna levels are unaffected by changes in dietary salt or by changes in systemic blood pressure . functional studies using isolated human resistance vessels also demonstrate the presence of renin-like activity by a contractile response to added renin substrate . it is suggested that extrarenal tissues therefore contain renin-like activity derived both from uptake and from local synthesis . these systems may be regulated in different ways and may carry out different functions . 
role of basic fibroblast growth factor in vascular lesion formation . in the present study we investigated whether basic fibroblast growth factor ( bfgf ) plays a role in the proliferative response of smooth muscle cells ( smcs ) to denuding injury . rat carotid smooth muscle was found to express the mrna for bfgf , and bfgf protein was found to be present in rat aorta by immunoblot analysis . systemically administered bfgf was a potent mitogen for vascular smcs in arteries denuded with a balloon catheter , increasing replication from 11.5 % in controls to 54.8 % . denudation with a device ( filament loop ) , which causes only minimal damage to medial smcs , showed a similar increase in replication ( 1.3 % versus 43.3 % ) after bfgf infusion . in unmanipulated vessels , however , smcs were unresponsive to infused bfgf . infusion of a " mitotoxin " ( bfgf conjugated to saporin ) caused a greater than 50 % decrease in the number of viable smcs in the arterial wall after balloon injury . prolonged administration of bfgf ( 12 micrograms/day for 2 weeks ) after balloon injury caused an approximately twofold increase in intimal thickening . these results show that bfgf , which is synthesized by the arterial wall , could be a potent mitogen for smcs in vivo and suggest that any release of endogenous bfgf may be capable of stimulating smc proliferation , which may subsequently lead to intimal lesion formation . 
myocardial capillary permeability after regional ischemia and reperfusion in the in vivo canine heart . effect of superoxide dismutase . this study assesses the effect of the superoxide anion scavenger superoxide dismutase on myocardial capillary permeability-surface area ( ps ) products for small hydrophilic molecules after ischemia and reperfusion . open-chest dogs underwent a 20-minute occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery followed by 1 hour of reperfusion . myocardial plasma flow rate and capillary extraction of chromium 51-labeled edta or technetium 99m-labeled diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid were measured by the single-injection , residue-detection method before ischemia and 5 and 60 minutes after the start of reperfusion . in 13 dogs , no scavenger treatment was given ( nonprotected control group ) , whereas eight dogs were treated systemically with 15,000 units/kg superoxide dismutase during 1 hour , starting 20 minutes before ischemia . in the control group , three dogs developed reperfusion ventricular fibrillation in contrast to none in the superoxide dismutase group . before ischemia , plasma flow rate , myocardial capillary extraction fraction , and ps values were similar in the two groups . five minutes after the start of reperfusion , plasma flow rate increased significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) in both groups . in the control group , capillary extraction fraction increased by 12 % ( p = ns ) in spite of the higher plasma flow ; these increases in capillary extraction fraction and plasma flow induced a 69 % increase in ps ( p less than 0.01 ) . in the superoxide dismutase-treated group , capillary extraction fraction decreased by 32 % ( p less than 0.05 ) in accordance with the increased plasma flow rate , resulting in an unchanged ps ( p = ns ) . sixty minutes after reperfusion , plasma flow rate , capillary extraction fraction , and ps returned to preocclusion values in both groups ( p = ns ) . the increased capillary extraction fraction and ps values seen in the control group suggest an increased capillary permeability after ischemia and reperfusion . superoxide anions seem to participate , directly or indirectly , in this response . 
adenine nucleotide changes in kidney , liver , and small intestine during different forms of ischemic injury . the purpose of this study was to better characterize renal adenine nucleotide pool responses to different forms of shock , contrast the changes to those found in other intra-abdominal organs ( the liver and small intestine ) , and assess whether these changes are closely mimicked by those produced by renal arterial occlusion , the usual method used to study ischemic acute renal failure . rats were subjected to hemorrhagic shock , septic shock , or cardiopulmonary shock of varying severities and durations . the liver consistently had the greatest energy depletion , followed by the kidney , and then the small intestine . however , only the kidney developed clear morphological damage ( s3 brush border sloughing ) . kidney adenylate pools were better preserved during septic shock and cardiopulmonary shock than during hemorrhagic shock despite comparable blood pressures . only profound hemorrhagic shock ( 35-40 mm hg for 25 minutes ) decreased total adenylate pools ( atp + adp + amp ) . however , the degree of renal catabolite ( nucleosides plus purine base ) accumulation did not correlate with the amount of renal total adenine nucleotide depletion , partially because circulating catabolites contributed to intrarenal catabolite pools . purine base/uric acid ratios differed among shocked organs , consistent with different degrees of xanthine oxidase activity ( small intestine greater than liver greater than kidney ) . renal morphological damage decreased during the immediate ( 0-30 minutes ) postshock period , and the extent of this improvement was not altered by xanthine oxidase inhibition ( oxypurinol ) , suggesting that the immediate postshock period is not one of serious oxidative injury . shock , in comparison with renal arterial occlusion , caused only modest atp loss/catabolite accumulation , very low purine base/uric acid ratios , and no immediate-reperfusion ( 0-30 minutes ) resynthesis of the total adenylate pool . thus , ischemia-induced renal adenylate changes may differ considerably , depending on the nature of the ischemic event . 
restoration by insulin of impaired prostaglandin e1/i2 receptor activity of platelets in acute ischemic heart disease . treatment of normal platelet-rich plasma with a physiological amount of insulin ( 100 microunits/ml , optimum concentration ) for 3 hours at 23 degrees c stimulated the binding of prostaglandin e1 by more than twofold ( 3,940 + / - 250 sites/10 ( 8 ) platelets ) compared with the nontreated , control platelet-rich plasma ( 1,590 + / - 265 sites/10 ( 8 ) platelets ) . after platelet-rich plasma from patients with acute ischemic heart disease ( n = 43 ) , whose platelets showed impaired prostaglandin e1/i2 receptor activity ( 850 + / - 100 sites/10 ( 8 ) platelets ) , was incubated with insulin ( optimum amounts varied from 100 to 200 microunits/ml ) , the binding of the prostanoid was restored to normal levels ( 1,790 + / - 140 sites/10 ( 8 ) platelets ) in 75 % of the cases . twenty-five percent of the patients did not respond to the stimulatory effect of insulin . the increased binding of the prostanoid to the insulin-treated platelets also resulted in increased cyclic amp levels both in normal subjects ( 44.14 + / - 3.1 pmol/10 ( 8 ) [ insulin-treated ] platelets versus 16.35 + / - 2.91 pmol/10 ( 8 ) [ control ] platelets ) and in patients with acute ischemic heart disease ( 23.87 + / - 4.1 pmol/10 ( 8 ) [ insulin-treated ] platelets versus 7.70 + / - 2.0 pmol/10 ( 8 ) [ control ] platelets ) by the prostanoid ( 1.0 microm ) . the treatment of platelet-rich plasma with the hormone decreased the minimum inhibitory concentration of the prostanoid from 34 + / - 14 to 15 + / - 9 nm ( p less than 0.001 ) in the case of normal volunteers and from 49 + / - 15 to 32 + / - 11 nm ( p = 0.002 ) in the case of " responder " patients . insulin did not produce any effect on the inhibition of platelet aggregation by the prostaglandin in " nonresponder " patients . in the follow-up study , although the stimulatory effects of insulin on platelets from responder patients were improved to normal levels , the platelets from the nonresponder patients remained persistently unresponsive to the effect of the hormone . 
mechanism of early ischemic contractile failure . inexcitability , metabolite accumulation , or vascular collapse ? the basis of early ischemic contractile failure was investigated in perfused ferret hearts at 27 degrees c. isovolumic left ventricular developed pressure fell by more than 50 % within 30 seconds of the onset of total global ischemia and reached zero by 5 minutes . monophasic action potential recordings revealed no decrease in excitability during this period . phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance spectra obtained at 30-second resolution showed no significant changes in inorganic phosphate or phosphocreatine during the first 30 seconds of ischemia . intracellular ph ( phi ) and atp changed even more slowly ; therefore , none of these metabolites could account for the rapid fall in force . to gauge the contribution of intravascular pressure , we compared ordinary aortic flow occlusion with tissue-level ischemia induced by massive coronary microembolization at the level of the precapillary arterioles . functional depression developed significantly more slowly in the microembolized hearts , despite accumulation of inorganic phosphate and protons comparable with that in ordinary ischemia . after microembolization , the time course of functional depression reflected much more closely the concomitant inorganic phosphate and phi changes . thus , our results provide novel evidence supporting the importance of vascular collapse in the mechanism of early ischemic contractile failure . 
significance of the number of stimuli to initiate ouabain-induced arrhythmias in the intact heart . ouabain-induced arrhythmias are a well-known model used to study triggered activity resulting from delayed afterdepolarizations . in the intact heart , initiation of these arrhythmias is promoted by pacing , especially at fast rates . however , the relevance of the number of stimuli is unknown . in conscious dogs with formalin-induced atrioventricular block , we investigated the effect of variations in pacing mode on 1 ) the behavior of nonsustained triggered rhythms at progressive levels of ouabain intoxication , and 2 ) the induction of sustained ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) . twenty experiments were analyzed . ouabain was administered as a bolus of 40 micrograms/kg followed by continuous infusion . every 15 minutes the pacing protocol was repeated , with a maximum of 10 , until completion or induction of vt . when vt could not be initiated , the experiment was repeated at least 1 week later , adding 5-10 micrograms/kg ouabain to the bolus and increasing the infusion rate correspondingly . this was repeated until vt could be induced . four interstimulus intervals ( 200 , 400 , 600 , and 800 msec ) and seven numbers of stimuli ( 5 , 10 , 20 , 35 , 50 , 100 , and 150 ) were given in two pacing protocols . the effect of these protocols on 1 ) the number of induced beats per stimulation train , 2 ) their first postpacing interval , and 3 ) induction of vt were studied . initiation of vt occurred after 75 + / - 42 minutes . the bolus of ouabain needed to induce vt was inversely related to the body weight of the animals . progression of ouabain intoxication resulted in 1 ) a significant increase in the number of induced beats per stimulation train and 2 ) a significant shortening of the first postpacing interval . stimulation at a faster rate and/or more stimuli resulted in 1 ) a significantly pronounced increase in the number of induced beats at the higher levels and 2 ) a significantly shorter first postpacing interval at successive levels of ouabain intoxication . 
[ ca2 + ] i transients in the cardiomyopathic hamster heart . intracellular [ ca2 + ] transients were studied in isolated hearts of healthy and cardiomyopathic hamsters in late failure perfused with glucose or pyruvate . hearts of healthy hamsters developed similar pressures when perfused with either glucose or pyruvate , and [ ca2 + ] i transients were comparable in amplitude when perfused with either substrate . on the other hand , hearts of cardiomyopathic hamsters in late failure developed normal pressure when perfused with pyruvate but developed depressed pressure ( 50 % ) when perfused with glucose . the amplitude of [ ca2 + ] i transients fell severely and was associated with a high diastolic [ ca2 + ] i in cardiomyopathic hamster hearts when the perfusate was switched from pyruvate to glucose . the high phosphomonoester sugars as evidenced by 31p nuclear magnetic resonance studies and the depressed oxygen consumption in the cardiomyopathic hamster hearts perfused with glucose reflect an inhibition in glycolysis and a subsequent decrease in mitochondrial activity . without an adequate delivery of substrate to the mitochondria in the cardiomyopathic hamster , the myocardium is no longer capable of maintaining its [ ca2 + ] i homeostasis . 
effect of preconditioning ischemia on reperfusion arrhythmias after coronary artery occlusion and reperfusion in the rat . severe arrhythmias occur predictably on reperfusion after 5 minutes of coronary occlusion in the rat . there is little data available on whether ischemic preconditioning ( pc ) of hearts can reduce the incidence of such arrhythmias . the effect of pc ( three cycles of 2 minutes of coronary occlusion and 5 minutes of reperfusion ) on development of arrhythmias after a subsequent 5-minute coronary artery occlusion and reperfusion was studied . rats ( n = 16 each group ) underwent 5-minute occlusion and reperfusion alone or preceded by pc ; arrhythmias were monitored during ischemia and for 10 minutes of reperfusion , and biopsies were taken for creatine phosphate and adenosine triphosphate in ischemic and nonischemic zones of the left ventricle . pc reduced the incidence of ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) during occlusion ( 81 % control versus 13 % pc , p less than 0.001 ) . on subsequent reperfusion , ventricular fibrillation ( vf ) developed in zero pc animals versus 13 ( 81 % ) of controls ( p less than 0.001 ) , and irreversible vf in zero of pc versus seven ( 44 % ) of controls ( p = 0.007 ) . vt occurred in four ( 25 % ) of pc versus all ( 100 % ) of controls ( p less than 0.001 ) . pc reduced mean duration of vt plus vf from 320 + / - 54 to 5 + / - 1 seconds ( p less than 0.001 ) and delayed arrhythmia onset from 8 + / - 2 to 85 + / - 35 seconds after reperfusion . there was no difference in creatine phosphate levels in the ischemic zone at the end of reperfusion in pc animals compared with controls without irreversible vf ( 16.2 + / - 4.1 versus 15.5 + / - 3.9 nmol/mg protein , p = ns ) . 
passive smoking and heart disease . epidemiology , physiology , and biochemistry . the evidence that ets increases risk of death from heart disease is similar to that which existed in 1986 when the us surgeon general concluded that ets caused lung cancer in healthy nonsmokers . there are 10 epidemiological studies , conducted in a variety of locations , that reflect about a 30 % increase in risk of death from ischemic heart disease or myocardial infarction among nonsmokers living with smokers . the larger studies also demonstrate a significant dose-response effect , with greater exposure to ets associated with greater risk of death from heart disease . these epidemiological studies are complemented by a variety of physiological and biochemical data that show that ets adversely affects platelet function and damages arterial endothelium in a way that increases the risk of heart disease . moreover , ets , in realistic exposures , also exerts significant adverse effects on exercise capability of both healthy people and those with heart disease by reducing the body 's ability to deliver and utilize oxygen . in animal experiments , ets also depresses cellular respiration at the level of mitochondria . the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in ets also accelerate , and may initiate , the development of atherosclerotic plaque . of note , the cardiovascular effects of ets appear to be different in nonsmokers and smokers . nonsmokers appear to be more sensitive to ets than do smokers , perhaps because some of the affected physiological systems are sensitive to low doses of the compounds in ets , then saturate , and also perhaps because of physiological adaptions smokers undergo as a result of long-term exposure to the toxins in cigarette smoke . in any event , these findings indicate that , for cardiovascular disease , it is incorrect to compute " cigarette equivalents " for passive exposure to ets and then to extrapolate the effects of this exposure on nonsmokers from the effects of direct smoking on smokers . these results suggest that heart disease is an important consequence of exposure to ets . the combination of epidemiological studies with demonstration of physiological changes with exposure to ets , together with biochemical evidence that elements of ets have significant adverse effects on the cardiovascular system , leads to the conclusion that ets causes heart disease . this increase in risk translates into about 10 times as many deaths from ets-induced heart disease as lung cancer ; these deaths contribute greatly to the estimated 53,000 deaths annually from passive smoking . this toll makes passive smoking the third leading preventable cause of death in the united states today , behind active smoking and alcohol . 
multicenter patency trial of intravenous anistreplase compared with streptokinase in acute myocardial infarction . the team-2 study investigators . thrombolytic therapy has been shown to improve clinical outcome when administered early after the onset of symptoms of acute myocardial infarction ; the mechanism of benefit is believed to be reestablishment and maintenance of coronary artery patency . anistreplase is a second generation thrombolytic agent that is easily administered and has a long duration of action . to compare anistreplase ( 30 units/2 -5 min ) and therapy with the food and drug administration-approved regimen of intravenous streptokinase ( 1.5 million units/60 min ) , a randomized , double-blind , multicenter patency trial was undertaken in 370 patients less than 76 years of age with electrocardiographic st segment elevation who could be treated within 4 hours of symptom onset . coronary patency was determined by reading , in a blinded fashion , angiograms obtained early ( 90-240 minutes ; mean , 140 minutes ) and later ( 18-48 hours ; mean , 28 hours ) after beginning therapy . early total patency ( defined as thrombolysis in myocardial infarction grade 2 or 3 perfusion ) was high after both anistreplase ( 132/183 = 72 % ) and streptokinase ( 129/176 = 73 % ) therapy , and overall patency patterns were similar , although patent arteries showed " complete " ( grade 3 ) perfusion more often after anistreplase ( 83 % ) than streptokinase ( 72 % ) ( p = 0.03 ) . similarly , residual coronary stenosis , determined quantitatively by a validated computer-assisted method , was slightly less in patent arteries early after anistreplase ( mean stenosis diameter , 74.0 % ) than streptokinase ( 77.2 % , p = 0.02 ) . in patients with patent arteries without other early interventions , reocclusion risk within 1-2 days was defined angiographically and found to be very low ( anistreplase = 1/96 , streptokinase = 2/94 ) . average coronary perfusion grade was greater , and percent residual stenosis was less , at follow-up than on initial evaluation and did not differ between treatment groups . enzymatic and electrocardiographic evolution was not significantly different in the two groups . despite rapid injection , anistreplase was associated with only a small ( 4-5 mm hg ) , transient ( at 5-10 minutes ) mean differential fall in blood pressure . in-hospital mortality rates were comparable for anistreplase and streptokinase ( 5.9 % , 7.1 % ) . stroke occurred in one ( 0.5 % ) and three ( 1.6 % ) patients , respectively ; one stroke was hemorrhagic . other serious bleeding events and adverse experiences occurred uncommonly and with similar frequency in the two groups . thus , for the end points of our study ( patency , safety ) , anistreplase and streptokinase showed overall favorable and relatively comparable outcomes , with a few differences . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
nd : yag laser with sapphire tip combined with balloon angioplasty in peripheral arterial occlusions . long-term results in 167 patients with complete occlusion ( greater than 3 cm ) of the femoropopliteal artery , percutaneous transluminal laser angioplasty ( ptla ) was performed after an unsuccessful attempt at crossing with a guide wire and was immediately followed by balloon dilatation . an nd-yag laser and an optical fiber delivery system with a sapphire tip serving as a contact probe were used for ptla . in 132 of 167 ( 79 % ) patients , the occluded segment was successfully reopened . clinical symptoms improved in 126 of 167 ( 75 % ) patients . ptla was unsuccessful in 35 patients , and in 15 of these , injury of the vessel wall occurred . in one patient , surgical drainage of a large hematoma became necessary . all patients in whom recanalization had been achieved were randomized to receive long-term treatment with either phenprocumarol or acetylsalicylic acid ( asa ) plus dipyridamole to prevent rethrombosis . at 36 months of follow-up , the cumulative patency rate ( cpr ) was 63 % . a complete reobstruction in 32 patients ( 24 % ) and a partial reobstruction in 15 patients ( 11 % ) were found angiographically . the cpr after 36 months was significantly lower ( p less than 0.05 ) in patients younger than 60 years of age ( 54 % ) than in patients older than 60 ( 68 % ) ; it was also significantly lower ( p less than 0.05 ) in patients with reduced peripheral runoff ( 55 % ) due to obstructed arteries of the lower leg than in patients with unaffected runoff ( 73 % ) . the cpr was 65 % in recanalized segments shorter than 7 cm and was 62 % in recanalized segments longer than 7 cm . 
clinical experience with the palmaz-schatz coronary stent . initial results of a multicenter study . stenting of native coronary arteries with a balloon-expandable stent was attempted in 226 patients after elective angioplasty . delivery of the device was successful in 213 ( 94 % ) of the patients . of these , 39 received aspirin and dipyridamole only ( group 1 ) and 174 received aspirin , dipyridamole , and warfarin for 1-3 months ( group 2 ) . there was no abrupt closure ( less than or equal to 1 day ) or perioperative death in either group . in-hospital or perioperative complications in group 1 compared with group 2 were as follows : subacute closure ( 1-14 days ) , seven ( 18 % ) patients versus one ( 0.6 % ) patient , respectively , p less than 0.0001 ; myocardial infarction , five ( 13 % ) patients versus one ( 0.6 % ) patient , respectively ; condition requiring urgent bypass surgery , one ( 2.5 % ) patient versus no patients , respectively . thus , the incidence of major complications such as death , myocardial infarction , or a condition requiring urgent bypass surgery was 15 % in group 1 and 0.6 % in group 2 . clinical follow-up revealed that 92 % of the patients were asymptomatic at 3 months after stenting compared with 6 % before stenting ( p less than 0.0001 ) . of the 13 patients who were symptomatic , nine underwent cardiac catheterization and , ultimately , successful elective coronary angioplasty or bypass surgery . we conclude that a high delivery success rate can be expected with this device and that clinical thrombosis is less frequent in anticoagulated patients than in nonanticoagulated patients . furthermore , in this selected patient population , coronary stenting results in a low incidence of in-hospital and perioperative complications . clinical success , defined by absence of symptoms , appears to be sustained at 3 months . 
detection of patients at risk for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation during sinus rhythm by p wave-triggered signal-averaged electrocardiogram . to determine whether patients at risk for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation could be detected while in sinus rhythm , the signal-averaged electrocardiogram triggered by p waves was recorded in 42 patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation ( paf group ) and in 50 control patients . the root mean square voltages ( lp10 , lp20 , and lp30 ) for the last 10 , 20 , and 30 msec and the duration ( ad ) of filtered ( 40-300 hz ) p wave of the spatial magnitude were measured . lp10 and lp20 were significantly lower in the paf than in the control group ( lp10 , 1.92 + / - 0.58 versus 2.49 + / - 0.78 microv , p less than 0.001 ; lp20 , 2.47 + / - 0.78 versus 3.46 + / - 1.20 microv , p less than 0.0001 ) , although no significant difference in lp30 was found between groups . ad was also significantly longer in the paf than in the control group ( 137.0 + / - 14.3 versus 118.6 + / - 11.3 msec , p less than 0.001 ) . these differences between the paf and control groups remained significant even after dividing by the presence or absence of organic heart diseases . the criteria of " lp20 = 3.5 microv or less " and " ad greater than 120 msec " as defining " atrial late potential " gave a sensitivity of 91 % and a specificity of 76 % . these findings suggest that patients at risk for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation could be detected while in sinus rhythm by using the p wave-triggered signal-averaged electrocardiogram . 
doppler echocardiographic assessment of the st. jude medical prosthetic valve in the aortic position using the continuity equation . to test whether the continuity equation can be applied to the noninvasive assessment of prosthetic aortic valve function , doppler echocardiography was performed in 67 patients ( mean age , 58 + / - 14 years ) within 10 + / - 6 days after valve replacement with st. jude medical valves . all patients were clinically stable and without evidence of valve dysfunction . valve size ranged from 19 to 31 mm , and ejection fraction ranged from 30 % to 75 % . with the parasternal long-axis view , the left ventricular outflow diameter measured just proximal to the prosthetic valve correlated well with valve size ( r = 0.92 ) . doppler-derived maximal gradients ranged from 9 to 71 mm hg . effective prosthetic aortic valve area by the continuity equation ranged between 0.73 cm2 for a 19-mm valve and 4.23 cm2 for a 31-mm valve . with analysis of variance , effective orifice area differentiated various valve sizes ( p less than 10 ( -14 ) ) better than did gradients alone ( p = 0.003 ) and correlated better with actual valve orifice area ( r = 0.83 versus - 0.40 ) . a doppler velocity index , the ratio of peak velocity in the left ventricular outflow to that of the aortic jet , averaged 0.41 + / - 0.09 and was less dependent on valve size ( r = 0.43 ) . thus , the continuity equation can be applied to the assessment of prosthetic st. jude valves in the aortic position . by accounting for flow through the valve , it provides an improved assessment over the sole use of gradients in the evaluation of prosthetic valve function . 
in vivo technetium-99m s12 antibody imaging of platelet alpha-granules in rabbit endothelial neointimal proliferation after angioplasty . to examine the specificity of technetium-99m monoclonal antibody ( s12 ) imaging for identifying activated platelets at interventional injury sites in atherosclerotic rabbit arteries , subgroups of unheparinized rabbits ( n = 39 ) underwent serial percutaneous transluminal aortic angioplasty ( pta ) procedures ( with or without intravascular stent placement ) followed by in vivo and then ex vivo gamma camera imaging , scanning , and immunoelectron microscopy to determine the intravascular loci of s12 fab ' antibody binding . despite angiographic vessel patency , image-derived ratios of in vivo s12 binding in injured versus uninjured vascular segments were significantly increased ( p less than 0.05 ) after one pta ( 1.3 + / - 0.17 , n = 7 ) , pta twice at 6-week intervals ( 1.4 + / - 0.22 , n = 7 ) , and pta plus stent placement ( 1.6 + / - 0.28 , n = 7 ) compared with control experiments ( 1.1 + / - 0.13 , n = 7 ) . ex vivo imaging of blood-free excised aortas confirmed s12 localization at pta ( 2 + / - 0.4 , n = 3 ) and pta plus stent placement ( 5 + / - 3.8 , n = 7 ) sites ( both p less than 0.05 versus controls ) . s12 antibody uptake decreased significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) at 1 week after pta plus stent placement in vivo ( 1.1 + / - 0.10 , n = 4 ) and ex vivo ( 1.6 + / - 0.7 , n = 3 ) . electron microscopic studies confirmed dense platelet , fibrin , and red blood cell deposition in regions of acute injury , with endothelial neointimal proliferation at 1 week after pta . immunoelectron microscopic studies confirmed specific in vivo s12 binding ( 22:1 versus nonrelevant igg ) at sites of alpha-granule gmp-140 expression in activated platelets . therefore , s12 studies may be useful to localize sites of platelet-derived mitogen release at arterial pta injury sites . 
reduction of myocardial reperfusion injury by intravenous adenosine administered during the early reperfusion period . adenosine influences the function of several cell types thought to be involved in the pathogenesis of myocardial reperfusion injury . we have previously demonstrated that intracoronary administration of adenosine enhances myocardial salvage 24 hours after reperfusion . to determine if these beneficial effects could be obtained during a prolonged period of reperfusion using an intravenous route of administration , 22 closed-chest dogs were subjected to 90 minutes of proximal left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion and 72 hours of reperfusion . animals randomly received either intravenous adenosine ( 0.15 mg/kg/min ) or an equal volume of ringer 's lactate during the first 150 minutes of reperfusion . the area at risk was defined in vivo with monastral blue , and infarct size was measured histologically with mallory 's trichrome stain . serial global and regional ventricular function were determined with contrast ventriculography and analyzed using a computerized radial shortening method . biopsies were obtained from the central ischemic zone to assess endothelial ultrastructure and capillary obstruction . no significant effects in heart rate or blood pressure were noted during adenosine infusion . transmural collateral blood flow during ischemia was similar in the groups . infarct size expressed as a percentage of the anatomical area at risk was significantly less in the adenosine-treated group ( 35.3 + / - 4.3 % in controls versus 17.1 + / - 4.3 % in treated animals , p less than 0.01 ) . a progressive decrease in transmural blood flow was noted in control animals during reperfusion , resulting in a significant reduction at 3 hours compared with the preocclusion value ( 0.69 + / - 0.11 ml/min/g [ at baseline versus 0.45 + / - 0.10 ml/min/g at 3 hours , p less than 0.05 ] ) . in contrast , flow in adenosine animals at 3 hours was similar to baseline values ( 0.91 + / - 0.15 ml/min/g at baseline versus 0.98 + / - 0.14 ml/min/g at 3 hours , p = ns ) and was significantly higher ( p less than 0.05 ) than the control group . radial shortening in the ischemic zone was significantly improved at 3 ( -2.6 + / - 2.8 % in controls versus 11.6 + / - 3.3 % in treated animals , p less than 0.01 ) and 72 hours ( 5.5 + / - 2.0 % in controls versus 17.3 + / - 3.5 % in treated animals , p less than 0.01 ) after reperfusion in treated animals . electron microscopy showed reduced neutrophil and erythrocyte plugging of capillaries with relative preservation of endothelial cell structure in the adenosine group . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
influence of hypoxia on adrenergic modulation of triggered activity in isolated adult canine myocytes . although findings from several reports suggest that nonreentrant or focal mechanisms contribute to the genesis of arrhythmias during early ischemia , the contribution of triggered activity arising from early or delayed afterdepolarizations has not been resolved . we have previously demonstrated that beta - but not alpha-adrenergic stimulation induces afterdepolarizations and triggered activity in isolated normoxic myocytes . in the present study , the influence of the extent of cellular derangements as well as increases in [ k + ] o on alpha - and beta-adrenergic-mediated afterdepolarizations and triggered activity was evaluated . adult canine myocytes were exposed to one of the following experimental conditions with simultaneous intracellular transmembrane action potential recordings : 1 ) low po2 ( less than 10 mm hg , obtained using a specially designed hypoxic chamber ) and low ( 6.8 ) ph ; 2 ) low po2 , low ph , and high extracellular potassium ( [ k + ] o ) ( 10 mm ) ; or 3 ) severe metabolic inhibition with cyanide ( 10 ( -6 ) m ) . cells from each group were superfused with either the alpha-agonist phenylephrine ( 10 ( -5 ) or 10 ( -7 ) m , with 10 ( -5 ) m nadolol ) or the beta-agonist isoproterenol ( 10 ( -6 ) m ) . moderate changes in the action potentials were observed under conditions 1 and 2 ( moderate hypoxia ) , whereas marked but reversible changes were observed with cyanide ( severe metabolic inhibition ) . during moderate hypoxia in normal [ k + ] o , delayed afterdepolarizations or triggered activity were elicited by both alpha - ( 12 of 13 cells ) and beta-adrenergic ( five of five cells ) stimulation . increasing [ k + ] o during moderate hypoxia completely abolished the afterdepolarizations induced by alpha-adrenergic stimulation and prevented the occurrence of triggered activity . in contrast , the influence of beta-adrenergic stimulation was only attenuated by an increase in [ k + ] o. exposure to cyanide completely prevented the induction of afterdepolarizations and triggered activity by both alpha - and beta-adrenergic stimulation . our findings indicate that moderate hypoxia in normal [ k + ] o is associated with the development of adrenergic-mediated afterdepolarizations and triggered activity . in contrast , accumulation of [ k + ] o or severe impairment of cellular metabolism is accompanied by inhibition of adrenergic-mediated afterdepolarizations and triggered activity . 
identification of viable myocardium in patients with chronic coronary artery disease and left ventricular dysfunction . comparison of thallium scintigraphy with reinjection and pet imaging with 18f-fluorodeoxyglucose in patients with chronic coronary artery disease and left ventricular dysfunction , the distinction between ventricular dysfunction arising from myocardial fibrosis and ischemic , but viable , myocardium has important clinical implications . by positron emission tomography ( pet ) , enhanced fluorine-18-labeled fluorodeoxyglucose ( fdg ) uptake in myocardial segments with impaired function and reduced blood flow is evidence of myocardial viability . reinjection of thallium-201 at rest immediately after stress-redistribution imaging may also provide evidence of myocardial viability by demonstrating thallium uptake in regions with apparently " irreversible " defects . to compare these two methods , we studied 16 patients with chronic coronary artery disease and left ventricular dysfunction ( ejection fraction , 27 + / - 9 % ) , all of whom had irreversible defects on standard exercise-redistribution thallium single-photon emission computed tomography ( spect ) imaging . thallium was reinjected immediately after the redistribution study , and spect images were reacquired . the patients also underwent pet imaging with fdg and oxygen-15-labeled water . a total of 432 myocardial segments were analyzed from comparable transaxial tomograms , of which 166 ( 38 % ) had irreversible thallium defects on redistribution images before reinjection . fdg uptake was demonstrated in 121 ( 73 % ) of these irreversible defects . irreversible defects were then subgrouped according to the degree of thallium activity , relative to peak activity in normal regions . irreversible defects with only mild ( 60-85 % of peak activity ) or moderate ( 50-59 % of peak ) reduction in thallium activity were considered viable on the basis of fdg uptake in 91 % and 84 % of these segments , respectively . in contrast , in irreversible defects with severe reduction in thallium activity ( less than 50 % of peak ) , fdg uptake was present in 51 % of segments . in such severe defects , an identical number of segments ( 51 % ) demonstrated enhanced uptake of thallium after reinjection . in these severe " irreversible " defects , data on myocardial viability were concordant by the two techniques in 88 % of segments , with 45 % identified as viable and 43 % identified as scar on both pet and thallium reinjection studies . these observations suggest that thallium imaging can be used to identify viable myocardium in patients with chronic coronary artery disease and left ventricular dysfunction . most irreversible defects with only mild or moderate reduction in thallium activity represent viable myocardium as confirmed by fdg uptake . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
analysis of baroreflex control of heart rate in conscious dogs with pacing-induced heart failure . the autonomic components of the baroreflex control of heart rate were evaluated in conscious mongrel dogs before and after 4-6 weeks of ventricular pacing ( 250 beats/min ) . arterial baroreflex sensitivity ( brs ) was determined by the slopes of linear regression of pulse interval versus the preceding systolic arterial pressure in response to bolus injections of either phenylephrine or nitroglycerin . brs was significantly depressed in the heart failure state [ nitroglycerin slope , 5.0 + / - 2.7 ( mean + / - sd ) versus 16.6 + / - 5.1 msec/mm hg , p less than 0.005 ; phenylephrine slope , 15.0 + / - 14.8 versus 32.0 + / - 26.7 msec/mm hg , p less than 0.005 ] . there was no depression in brs in dogs that were used as time controls or were acutely paced for 30 minutes . after beta 1-adrenergic blockade with metoprolol , the resting heart rate in the heart failure state was depressed more than in the normal state ( -17.0 + / - 5.0 % versus -3.2 + / - 3.4 % , p less than 0.001 ) . atropine significantly increased resting heart rate more in the normal state than in the heart failure state ( 115.8 + / - 36.7 % versus 25.4 + / - 14.5 % , p less than 0.005 ) . thus , dogs in the heart failure state appear to have high resting cardiac sympathetic tone and low resting vagal tone . for nitroglycerin administration , metoprolol depressed brs by 47.6 + / - 26.3 % in the normal state and by 63.6 + / - 58.5 % in the heart failure state . atropine decreased the brs by 86.7 + / - 7.8 % in the normal state and by 39.5 + / - 30.2 % in the heart failure state . 
reentrant ventricular arrhythmias in the late myocardial infarction period : mechanism by which a short-long-short cardiac sequence facilitates the induction of reentry . the electrophysiological mechanism by which a short-long-short stimulated cardiac sequence facilitates the induction of ventricular tachyarrhythmia was investigated in dogs 4 days after ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery . in these dogs , reentry develops in the surviving electrophysiologically abnormal epicardial layer that overlies the infarct zone when premature stimulation results in a critically long arc of functional conduction block . the activation wavefront circulates around both ends of the arc , coalesces , and conducts slowly distal to the arc before reactivating sites proximal to the arc to initiate a figure-eight reentrant circuit . epicardial isochronal activation maps and effective refractory periods ( erps ) were determined during three different stimulation protocols : a , a basic train of eight beats at a cycle length of 300 msec followed by a single premature stimulus ( s2 ) ; b , a basic train of eight beats at a cycle length of 300 msec with abrupt lengthening of the last cycle of the train before s2 to 600 msec ; c , a basic train of eight beats at a cycle length of 600 msec followed by s2 . protocol b was found to result in a differential lengthening of erp at adjacent sites within the border of the epicardial ischemic zone , whereas protocols a and c induced , respectively , comparable shortening and lengthening of erps at the same sites . the differential lengthening of erps at adjacent sites resulted in an increased dispersion of refractoriness so that a premature stimulus induced functional conduction block between those sites . the development of a longer arc of conduction block and , hence , a longer reentrant pathway as well as slower conduction of the circulating wavefront during protocol b allowed more time for refractoriness to expire proximal to the arc and for the circulating wavefront to reexcite those sites to initiate reentry . the lengthening of erp , associated with a single long cycle ( protocol b ) , ranged from 44 % to 79 % of the total increase in erp after a series of eight long cycles ( protocol c ) . epicardial sites with longer erps located close to the center of the ischemic zone showed more lengthening of refractoriness during protocol b compared with more normal sites near the border of the ischemic zone . this strongly suggests that the increased dispersion of refractoriness during protocol b is caused by the shorter memory of ischemic myocardium to the cumulative effects of preceding cycle lengths . 
in vitro and in vivo effects within the coronary sinus of nonarcing and arcing shocks using a new system of low-energy dc ablation . dc shocks within the coronary sinus have been abandoned because of the risk of cardiac rupture and tamponade . catheter ablation using dc energy to electrodes straddling the ostium of the coronary sinus , when used clinically , has been reported to result in cardiac tamponade in as many as 16 % of patients . a new system of energy delivery maximizes voltage while decreasing the undesirable effects caused by barotrauma . this system includes 1 ) a low-energy ablation power supply with a brief time-constant capacitive discharge that delivers up to 40 j and 3,000 v and 2 ) a low-energy ablation catheter with a contoured distal electrode . we performed in vitro and in vivo studies of this new system and compared arcing shocks with nonarcing shocks . ablations were performed using unipolar distal shocks ( d ) and unipolar shocks to both electrodes made electrically common ( p-d ) . in vitro studies were done in a large tank filled with physiological saline while recording voltage , current , and pressure . high-speed cinematography ( 32,000 frames/sec ) of shocks of 10-40 j permitted detailed analysis of the vapor globe . anodal shocks of less than 20 j showed no arcing or only minimal vapor globe formation . for d and p-d anodal shocks of 40 j , the diameters of the vapor globe were 31 and 22 mm , respectively , corresponding to pressure recordings of 11 and 4.9 atm . the pressure rise lasted less than 50 mu sec . in vivo studies involved 18 dogs that received nonarcing shocks ( one to six shocks of 15 j ) and 18 dogs that received arcing shocks ( one to three shocks of 40 j ) . each group was divided between d and p-d shocks ; catheter ablation was performed at a mean + / - sem distance of 2.94 + / - 0.92 cm within the coronary sinus . all dogs tolerated the procedure without cardiac rupture or tamponade . when killed 2-4 days later , the dogs had edema and hyperemia or hemorrhage in the area of the coronary sinus . we compared the effects of multiple ( three to six ) nonarcing shocks with the effects of one to three arcing shocks . disruption or rupture of the coronary sinus within the epicardial fat space occurred in two of 12 dogs ( 17 % ) with multiple nonarcing shocks but in 13 of 18 dogs ( 72 % ) with arcing shocks ( p less than 0.003 ) . occlusion of the coronary sinus occurred in two of 12 dogs ( 17 % ) with multiple nonarcing shocks and in nine of 18 dogs ( 50 % ) with arcing shocks ( p less than 0.06 ) . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
ischemic heart disease and platelet aggregation . the caerphilly collaborative heart disease study . the caerphilly collaborative heart disease study is based on a large cohort of men ( 2,398 ) aged 49-66 years at the time of study . platelet aggregation induced by collagen , thrombin , and adp was measured in fasting blood samples and was related to prevalent angina , past myocardial infarction , and electrocardiographic evidence of ischemic heart disease . a number of subjects had taken aspirin , other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs , or other drugs affecting platelet aggregation 7 days before blood sample collection ; after the exclusion of these subjects , data were available for 1,811 men . no relations were demonstrated with angina , but significant relations were shown between past myocardial infarctions and electrocardiographic evidence of ischemia and adp-induced aggregation ( both primary and secondary ) and between electrocardiographic evidence of ischemia and thrombin-induced aggregation . the strongest relation indicated more than a twofold increase in the odds of a past myocardial infarction in subjects of the highest fifth of adp-induced primary platelet aggregation compared with the lowest fifth . no significant relations were detected with collagen-induced aggregation . accounting for a number of possible confounding factors had a relatively small impact on the relations between platelet aggregation and ischemic heart disease . other evidence , including the well-established effect of aspirin on reducing the incidence of ischemic heart disease , indicates that the relations we describe are unlikely to be simply an effect of ihd on platelets . 
myocardial infarction in mexican-americans and non-hispanic whites . the san antonio heart study . mexican-american men experience reduced cardiovascular mortality compared with non-hispanic white men . there is no corresponding ethnic difference in cardiovascular mortality in women . the difference in men could result either from a lower incidence of cardiovascular disease or a lower case fatality rate among mexican-americans . although the incidence of cardiovascular disease in mexican-americans is unknown , we have collected data on prevalence of myocardial infarction in 5,148 individuals examined in the san antonio heart study , a population-based survey of cardiovascular disease conducted between 1979 and 1988 in mexican-americans and non-hispanic whites aged 25-64 years . myocardial infarction was assessed by minnesota-coded electrocardiograms and by a self-reported history of a physician-diagnosed heart attack . for both end points , the age-adjusted prevalence of myocardial infarction was lower in mexican-american men than in non-hispanic white men . after adjustment for age and diabetes status ( present/absent ) , the odds of a myocardial infarction , as defined by either criterion , was approximately one third lower in mexican-american men than in non-hispanic white men ( p = 0.06 ) . in women , the prevalence of both myocardial infarction end points was slightly higher in mexican-americans than in non-hispanic whites , although neither of these differences was significant . although the ethnic differences in prevalence in this study were not statistically significant , their pattern parallels the pattern in the mortality due to cardiovascular diseases . therefore , the results support the hypothesis that the reduced cardiovascular mortality rate observed in mexican-american men reflects a lower incidence of myocardial infarction rather than a reduced case fatality rate because the latter would result in a higher prevalence . 
diltiazem increases late-onset congestive heart failure in postinfarction patients with early reduction in ejection fraction . the adverse experience committee ; and the multicenter diltiazem postinfarction research group the multicenter diltiazem postinfarction trial ( mdpit ) reported no consistent diltiazem effect on new or worsened congestive heart failure ( chf ) during 12-52 months ' follow-up after acute myocardial infarction . this was puzzling in light of the observation that patients with findings suggesting left ventricular dysfunction ( lvd ) at baseline on diltiazem had more cardiac events ( cardiac mortality or recurrent nonfatal infarction ) than such patients on placebo . we hypothesized that diltiazem increased the frequency of late chf as well as of cardiac events , but only in patients predisposed by lvd . using the same characterizing variables as the primary mdpit analysis , we found that patients with pulmonary congestion , anterolateral q wave infarction , or reduced ejection fraction ( ef ) at baseline were more likely to have chf during follow-up than those without these markers of lvd . chf was particularly frequent in the patients with lvd who were randomized to diltiazem . among those with a baseline ef of less than 0.40 , late chf appeared in 12 % ( 39/326 ) receiving placebo and 21 % ( 61/297 ) receiving diltiazem ( p = 0.004 ) . life table analysis in patients with an ef of less than 0.40 confirmed more frequent late chf in those taking diltiazem ( p = 0.0017 ) . in addition , the diltiazem-associated rise in the frequency of late chf was progressively greater with increasingly severe decrements in baseline ef . this diltiazem effect was absent in patients with pulmonary congestion at baseline but an ef of 0.40 or more , suggesting a unique association between diltiazem-related late chf and systolic lvd . 
transesophageal doppler echocardiography evaluation of coronary blood flow velocity in baseline conditions and during dipyridamole-induced coronary vasodilation transesophageal echocardiography allows the evaluation of proximal coronary artery anatomy and coronary blood flow velocity ( cbfv ) . to assess the potential of transesophageal echocardiography in evaluating cbfv and its variations induced by coronary-active drugs , we studied 15 patients by high-quality pulsed wave doppler recordings of cbfv . in these patients , transesophageal doppler evaluation of cbfv was performed before , 2 minutes after cessation of dipyridamole infusion ( 0.56 mg/kg in 4 minutes ) , and 2 minutes after aminophylline infusion ( 240 mg injected 4 minutes after cessation of dipyridamole infusion ) . the following cbfv parameters were evaluated at each of the three steps of the study protocol : maximal and mean diastolic velocities and maximal and mean systolic velocities . furthermore , the following indexes of coronary flow reserve were evaluated : the ratio between maximal diastolic velocity recorded after and before dipyridamole administration and the ratio between mean diastolic velocity recorded after and before dipyridamole administration . nine of the 15 patients had a normal left anterior descending coronary artery ( group a ) , whereas the remaining six had significant ( less than or equal to 75 % ) stenosis ( group b ) . in group a patients , all cbfv parameters increased significantly during dipyridamole infusion and returned to near baseline values after aminophylline infusion . in group b patients , on the other hand , none of the cbfv parameters increased after dipyridamole infusion . dipyridamole/baseline maximal diastolic velocity and mean diastolic velocity ratios were , respectively , 3.22 + / - 0.96 and 3.04 + / - 0.88 in group a and 1.46 + / - 0.45 ( p less than 0.01 versus group a ) and 1.48 + / - 0.49 ( p less than 0.01 versus group a ) in group b patients . 
diagnosis of noninfective cardiac mass lesions by two-dimensional echocardiography . comparison of the transthoracic and transesophageal approaches . this study was conducted in 46 patients with cardiac thrombi , 15 patients with atrial myxomas , and 32 patients with other cardiac or paracardiac tumors . diagnoses were subsequently proven by surgery , autopsy , computed tomography , magnetic resonance imaging , or angiography in all patients . all patients underwent precordial and transesophageal two-dimensional echocardiography to assess the various mass detection rates . atrial myxomas and predominantly left-sided cardiac tumors were identified by both echocardiographic techniques with comparable detection rates . left ventricular apical thrombi were detected more frequently by precordial echocardiography . in contrast , transesophageal echocardiography was superior in visualizing left atrial appendage thrombi , small and flat thrombi in the left atrial cavity , thrombi and tumors in the superior vena cava , and masses attached to the right heart and the descending thoracic aorta . these data indicate that transesophageal echocardiography leads to a clinically relevant improvement of the diagnostic potential in patients in whom cardiac masses are suspected or have to be excluded in order to ensure the safety of clinical procedures . 
regurgitant jet size by transesophageal compared with transthoracic doppler color flow imaging . combined echocardiography and doppler color flow mapping from transthoracic imaging windows has become the standard method for the noninvasive assessment of valvular regurgitation . this study compared regurgitant jet areas by doppler color flow imaging derived from the newer transesophageal approach with measurements obtained from conventional transthoracic apical views . maximal regurgitant jet area determinations and an overall visual estimate of lesion severity were obtained from 42 patients who underwent color flow examination by both techniques . seventy-three regurgitant lesions were visualized by transesophageal flow imaging : 34 mitral , 22 aortic , and 17 tricuspid jets . transthoracic studies in the same patients revealed fewer regurgitant lesions for each valve ; 20 mitral , 16 aortic , and 12 tricuspid ( p = 0.0009 ) . a comparison of maximal jet areas determined by transesophageal and transthoracic studies showed a good overall correlation ( r = 0.85 , see = 2.8 cm2 ) and a systematic overestimation by the transesophageal technique ( tee = 0.96 ttx + 2.7 ) . for the subgroup with mitral insufficiency , valve lesions visualized by both techniques were larger by the transesophageal approach ( n = 18 , 6.0 versus 3.6 cm2 , p = 0.008 ) . semiquantitative visual grading of individual valve lesions by two independent observers revealed a higher grade of regurgitation with more jets classified as mild ( 38 versus 25 ) , moderate ( 18 versus 13 ) , and severe ( 17 versus 10 ) by esophageal imaging than by transthoracic imaging . thus , transesophageal color flow mapping techniques yield a higher prevalence of valvular regurgitation than do transthoracic techniques in the same patients . jet area and the overall estimate of regurgitant lesion severity were also greater by transesophageal color doppler imaging compared with standard transthoracic imaging . 
elevated pulmonary artery pressure . an independent predictor of mortality . analyses in this study were based on hemodynamic and angiographic data obtained in a cohort of 1,371 predominantly black patients during right and left heart catheterization . all patients were followed up prospectively for a mean of 117 weeks , and 103 fatal events were recorded . in cox survival analysis , three variables were found to be independently related to survival : pulmonary artery mean pressure ( pamp ) , number of stenosed vessels , and left ventricular ( lv ) ejection fraction ( p less than 0.01 ) ; in multivariate stepwise analysis , pamp entered the model first with the largest chi 2 value of the three prognostic variables ( chi 2 = 33.4 ; p less than 0.0001 ) . the pamp was 32 percent higher in decedents compared with survivors ( 25 + 11 mm hg vs 19 + 8 mm hg , p less than 0.01 [ mean , sd ] ) and a 10 mm hg increase in pamp was associated with a more than fourfold increase in the relative risk of dying ; this finding was independent of pulmonary vascular resistance and therefore could not be attributed to primary pulmonary vascular or parenchymal disease . in both the subgroup of 1,118 patients with a normal lv ejection fraction ( greater than 50 percent ) and the 253 patients with a reduced ejection fraction ( less than 50 percent ) , pamp emerged as an independent predictor of mortality ( p less than 0.0001 and 0.01 , respectively ) , and is therefore a marker of cardiac disease beyond impairment of systolic contractile function . among patients without obstructive coronary artery disease , pamp alone provided prognostic information in the multivariate survival analysis . 
renal vein thrombosis . initial manifestation of goodpasture 's syndrome . we report a patient who presented with renal vein thrombosis and nephrosis that progressed to alveolar hemorrhage and renal failure . renal biopsy immunofluorescence and serum antiglomerular basement membrane antibody titer studies confirmed the diagnosis of goodpasture 's syndrome . to our knowledge , this is the first report of renal vein thrombosis as the initial presentation of goodpasture 's syndrome . 
magnetic resonance imaging -- the evaluation of choice in residual shunt after congenital heart disease surgery ? accurate anatomic diagnosis presents a dilemma in patients with residual shunt after corrective surgery for congenital heart disease . we describe a patient who , after atrial septal defect repair , developed dyspnea and central cyanosis despite normal pulmonary arterial pressures and right heart chamber size . a role for early mri is suggested . 
nonsurgical treatment of histoplasma endocarditis involving a bioprosthetic valve . endocardial involvement associated with disseminated histoplasmosis has been infrequently documented , especially among patients with prosthetic valves . the therapeutic approach to these patients is also not yet clearly defined . a 54-year-old man with prosthetic valve endocarditis due to histoplasmosis was successfully treated with amphotericin b. a review of the literature suggests that the optimal form of therapy is likely a combination of surgical replacement of the involved valve and high dose amphotericin b. successful therapy with amphotericin b alone may , however , be achieved if surgery is not a viable option . 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and cough . prevalence in an outpatient medical clinic population . to determine the frequency of ace inhibitor cough in an outpatient medical clinic population , a cross-sectional epidemiologic survey using mailed questionnaires was done . patients were randomly selected from a computerized hospital pharmacy data base . the overall prevalence of cough was 19 percent in the ace inhibitor groups compared with 9 percent in the hydrochlorothiazide-treated group . the observed odds ratio for cough among ace inhibitor users was 2.3 ( 95 percent ci , 1.02 to 5.00 ) . this study is the first systematic investigation of frequency and characteristics of ace inhibitor cough that includes a control group . our results suggest that cough may more frequently accompany treatment with ace inhibitors than has been previously reported . we recommend that physicians specifically inquire about cough in patients taking an ace inhibitor . recognition of this side effect may prevent unnecessary testing and treatment of patients receiving ace inhibitors . 
safety and efficacy of thrombolytic therapy for superior vena cava syndrome the experience at the cleveland clinic from 1982 to 1990 using thrombolytic therapy for superior vena cava ( svc ) syndrome was retrospectively reviewed . sixteen patients , 11 of whom had indwelling central venous catheters , were treated with either urokinase ( n = 11 ) or streptokinase ( n = 5 ) . either urokinase ( 4,400 u/kg bolus followed by 4,400 u/kg/h ) or streptokinase ( 250,000 u bolus followed by 100,000 u/h ) was used , and venograms were performed before and after . overall , 56 percent of patients had complete clot lysis and relief of symptoms . thrombolytic therapy was effective in eight ( 73 percent ) of 11 patients receiving urokinase and one ( 20 percent ) of five patients receiving streptokinase . of those with a central venous catheter , eight ( 73 percent ) of 11 patients were successfully lysed , whereas only one ( 20 percent ) of five patients was successfully lysed if no catheter was present . if thrombolytic therapy was performed less than or equal to five days of symptom onset , seven ( 88 percent ) of eight patients were successful , if thrombolytic therapy was performed greater than five days after symptom onset , two ( 25 percent ) of eight patients were successful . symptoms were relieved and the catheter was preserved in patients in whom thrombolytic therapy was effective . factors predicting success were as follows : ( 1 ) the use of urokinase compared with streptokinase ; ( 2 ) the presence of a central venous catheter ; and ( 3 ) a duration of symptoms less than or equal to five days . 
complications of general anesthesia for nd : yag laser resection of endobronchial tumors . we studied the incidence and mechanisms of cardiovascular complications and postoperative respiratory insufficiency associated with ga and nd : yag laser endobronchial tumor resection . the records of 73 patients undergoing 87 procedures were reviewed . preoperative status , anesthetic methods and perioperative complications were analyzed by multiple regression to determine predictors of outcome . twenty-three percent of patients had greater than 90 percent mainstem bronchus obstruction . longer serum elimination half-life of relaxant drug was significantly correlated with longer duration of mechanical ventilation after neuromuscular blockade reversal . cardiovascular complications were noted in 24 procedures and often required therapeutic intervention . variables predicting cardiovascular complications included longer duration of ga and increasing age . perioperative respiratory and cardiovascular complications are common after ga for nd : yag laser resection . short-acting neuromuscular relaxants , careful assessment prior to postoperative extubation , limiting duration of ga and cardiovascular monitoring are recommended when implementing ga for nd : yag laser resection of endobronchial tumors . 
cellular immunodeficiency in protein-losing enteropathy . predominant reduction of cd3 + and cd4 + lymphocytes . cellular immunological abnormalities were studied in a patient with protein-losing enteropathy associated with constrictive pericarditis . analysis of lymphocyte subpopulations in peripheral blood showed lymphopenia with a decrease of cd3 + and cd4 + t cells , whereas cd8 + lymphocytes , b cells and nk cells were within the normal range . fecal loss of lymphocytes as a cause of lymphopenia was evidenced by a marked excretion of 111-indium-labeled peripheral blood mononuclear cells via stool . proliferative responses against several mitogens were severely reduced as was in vitro igg production . delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction against a variety of antigens was absent . vaccination with tick-borne encephalitis virus , used for primary immunization , and with the recall antigen tetanus toxoid resulted in a blunted antibody response . after pericardectomy , the severity of enteric protein loss declined , serum immunoglobulin levels returned to the normal range , and total lymphocytes and cd3 + and cd4 + counts increased but remained low even 12 months after surgery . fecal loss of lymphocytes was found to be reduced after pericardectomy , but was higher than that seen in a disease control patient with active inflammatory bowel disease . in vitro immunoglobulin production returned to normal , dth could be demonstrated against purified protein derivative and proteus antigen , but mitogen-driven blastogenic response of lymphocytes remained low . revaccination with tick-borne encephalitis and tetanus toxoid antigens seven months after surgery resulted in a dramatic increase of serum levels of antibodies against both antigens , comparable to that seen in healthy control individuals . 
diabetic cardiomyopathy . the purpose of this article was to review the clinical and experimental features of diabetic cardiomyopathy , with particular relevance to the black population . one hundred thirty-seven studies were identified , of which 57 were selected as references for this article . diabetes is associated with the development of cardiomyopathy , independent of coronary atherosclerosis . pathological studies show myocardial hypertrophy and fibrosis ; microvascular pathology is also present , but all of these pathological findings have an uncertain relationship to myocardial failure . hemodynamic findings of both congestive and restrictive cardiomyopathy have been described . noninvasive studies revealed abnormal systolic and diastolic function in many diabetic subjects , particularly in the presence of diabetic complications and/or hypertension . experimental studies have focused on the mildly diabetic dog and the severely diabetic rat . one year of diabetes in dogs resulted in decreased left ventricular compliance and increased interstitial connective tissue . studies in the diabetic rat showed a marked slowing of contraction and relaxation . chronic insulin therapy reversed the changes in the rat model . combining hypertension with diabetes in the rat resulted in increased myocardial and coronary microvascular pathology and greater changes in isolated muscle function , electrophysiology , and contractile protein biochemistry . many hypertensive diabetic rats died spontaneously , showing signs of congestive heart failure . diabetic cardiomyopathy is a significant cause of heart failure in diabetic subjects and occurs more frequently in those with microvascular complications and/or hypertension . clinical studies are needed to clarify the natural history of this disorder , focusing on the benefits of tight control of hyperglycemia and treatment of associated hypertension . experimental studies will clarify the pathophysiology and contribute to improved therapy . the high prevalence of diabetes and hypertension in blacks makes these considerations especially relevant to this population . 
hypertension and diabetes in blacks . this article summarizes the current state of knowledge on the interrelationship between non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , obesity , insulin resistance , and hypertension in our attempt to explore the pathophysiology of the high incidence of diabetes and hypertension in the black population in the united states . a central role for hyperinsulinemia is proposed , and questions are raised that are suitable for investigative clinical trials . 
risk factors for gestational diabetes in black population . in a long-term longitudinal study of gestational diabetes mellitus in black women , risk factors that were identified were age , obesity , a family history of diabetes , and the presence of hypertension . poor predictors were a history of a previous large-for-date infant , parity , and age at first pregnancy . the prevalence of smooth muscle and nuclear autoantibodies was higher in gestational diabetic subjects . gestational diabetic subjects who required insulin for glycemic control were more obese , had a lower frequency of the bf-f phenotype and a higher frequency of the bf-f1 phenotype , and had a lower frequency of the type 2 allele at the polymorphic locus adjacent to the insulin gene . restriction-fragment-length polymorphisms flanking the insulin and apolipoprotein a-i and c-iii genes , although not associated with gestational diabetes mellitus , may be associated with hyperlipidemia and subsequent atherosclerosis . 
diabetic retinopathy in blacks . diabetic eye disease , particularly diabetic retinopathy , is the leading cause of new cases of legal blindness in people 20-74 yr of age in the united states . the prevalence and rate of diabetes in this age-group are higher in blacks than in whites . the rate of blindness from diabetic eye disease is also higher in blacks than in whites . severe macular edema , the most frequent cause of decreased vision in diabetic retinopathy , appears to be more common in blacks . risk factors for developing macular edema include poorly controlled hypertension , hyperglycemia , and duration of disease . the higher prevalence of hypertension in blacks may contribute to the increased severity of diabetic retinopathy . further evaluation is necessary to determine the influence of race on the severity of diabetic retinopathy . 
metabolic and health complications of obesity . overnutrition manifested by obesity has emerged as a major health problem in affluent countries . in spite of increased interest in fitness , obesity is on the increase in the united states . this is particularly so among children and adolescents . although obesity is associated with many risk factors for diseases , the mechanisms whereby it enhances disease risk are not fully understood . such an understanding is needed to develop strategies for management of these conditions . in this report we suggest that overnutrition produces clinical diseases only in individuals who already possess a metabolic weakness or " defect " in a given system . in the absence of such underlying defects , overnutrition , or obesity , is well tolerated . one of the most common consequences of obesity is dyslipidemia , that is , elevations of very low-density lipoprotein ( vldl ) triglycerides and low-density lipoprotein ( ldl ) cholesterol and low concentrations of high-density lipoprotein ( hdl ) cholesterol . the major effect of overnutrition on lipoprotein metabolism is to stimulate the production of vldl . for patients who have an underlying defect in lypolysis of vldl triglycerides , hypertriglyceridemia will develop in the obese state . for those who have defective clearance of ldl , obesity will accentuate hypercholesterolemia . both of these effects can be explained by overproduction of vldl , due to obesity , combined with a genetic defect in clearance of vldl or ldl . the mechanism whereby obesity causes a lowering of hdl cholesterol is uncertain , although it could enhance removal of hdl by an excess of adipose tissue . another disease associated with obesity is cholesterol gallstones . the presence of obesity more than doubles the risk for gallstones . two underlying factors increase the danger for gallstones : a deficiency of hepatic secretion of bile acids and a tendency for formation of cholesterol crystals in bile . overnutrition promotes the synthesis of whole-body cholesterol , and the only route for excretion of this excess cholesterol is through the biliary tree . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
pulmonary hypertension complicating portal hypertension : prevalence and relation to splanchnic hemodynamics . the prevalence of pulmonary hypertension in 507 patients hospitalized with portal hypertension but without known pulmonary hypertension who underwent cardiac catheterization was prospectively studied . ten ( 2 % ) of these patients , 6 of whom were clinically asymptomatic , had primary pulmonary hypertension . second , 26 patients with symptomatic pulmonary hypertension complicating portal hypertension were reviewed . pulmonary hypertension occurred later after diagnosis of portal hypertension in patients with a surgical shunt ( 10 patients ) than in those without a shunt ( 147 + / - 49 vs. 44 + / - 27 months ; p less than 0.0001 ) . cardiac index correlated inversely with pulmonary arterial pressure ( r = -0.45 ; p less than 0.01 ) and was lower in the 5 patients who died of pulmonary hypertension than in the 5 who died of liver failure ( 1.52 + / - 0.14 vs. 3.69 + / - 1.88 l/min . m2 ; p less than 0.05 ) . third , systemic and splanchnic hemodynamics were compared in 285 patients with alcoholic cirrhosis and 29 controls . no significant relation was found between elevated pulmonary vascular resistance and increased portal pressure , zzygos blood flow , or cardiac index . pulmonary hypertension is considerably more frequent than was previously estimated in patients with portal hypertension . the risk of developing pulmonary hypertension could increase with the duration of portal hypertension without any clear relation to the degree of portal hypertension , hepatic failure , or amount of blood shunted . 
calcium channel blockers in geriatric hypertension . though the calcium channel blockers have been used to treat angina pectoris for almost a decade , the long-acting forms of these agents that have become available in the last few years have made them practical for use as antihypertensive agents as well . they are becoming increasingly popular in this role , especially to treat elderly hypertensive patients . because they are vasodilators with a mild diuretic action , they are logical treatment choices for the majority of hypertensive patients who have increased peripheral vascular resistance . they offer the advantage of a dual benefit for hypertensive patients with angina , and they have no effect on carbohydrate or lipid metabolism . disadvantages include cost and a side effect profile that includes headaches , palpitations , ankle edema , and constipation . 
congestive heart failure : a current overview . congestive heart failure ( chf ) , a disease seen primarily in the older patient , can be due to either systolic or diastolic dysfunction . management is quite different if the heart failure is due to a filling abnormality as compared to poor ventricular systole . the disorder also poses many diagnostic pitfalls in the elderly . current understanding of chf and its influence on diagnosis and management is the focus of this review . 
training increases muscle blood flow in rats with peripheral arterial insufficiency . this study investigated the effect of physical training on muscle blood flow ( bf ) in rats with peripheral arterial insufficiency during treadmill running . bilateral stenosis of the femoral artery of adult rats ( 300-350 g ) was performed to reduce exercise hyperemia in the hindlimb but not limit resting muscle bf . rats were divided into normal sedentary , acute stenosed ( stenosed 3 days before the experiment ) , stenosed sedentary ( limited to cage activity ) , and stenosed trained ( run on a treadmill by a progressively intense program , up to 50-60 min/day , 5 days/wk for 6-8 wk ) . hindlimb bf was determined with 85sr - and 141ce-labeled microspheres at a low ( 20 m/min ) and high treadmill speed ( 30-40 m/min depending on ability ) . maximal hindlimb bf was reduced to approximately 50 % normal in the acute stenosed group . total hindlimb bf ( 81 + / - 5 ml.min-1 .100 g-1 ) did not change in stenosed sedentary animals with 6-8 wk of cage activity , but a redistribution of bf occurred within the hindlimb . two factors contributed to a higher bf to the distal limb muscle of the trained animals . a redistribution bf within the hindlimb occurred in stenosed trained animals ; distal limb bf increased to approximately 80 % ( p less than 0.001 ) of the proximal tissue . in addition , an increase in total hindlimb bf with training indicates that collateral bf has been enhanced ( p less than 0.025 ) . the associated increase in oxygen delivery to the relatively ischemic muscle probably contributed to the markedly improved exercise tolerance evident in the trained animals . 
effect of synchronous increase in intrathoracic pressure on cardiac performance during acute endotoxemia . in the anesthetized closed-chest canine model of gram-negative endotoxemia ( n = 10 ) , we tested the hypothesis that the effect of cardiac cycle-specific intrathoracic pressure pulses delivered by a heart rate - ( hr ) synchronized high-frequency jet ventilator ( sync hfjv ) on systolic ventricular performance is dependent on the level of preload . to control for hfjv frequency , hemodynamic responses were also measured at fixed frequency within 15 % of hr ( async hfjv ) . biventricular stroke volumes ( sv ) were measured by electromagnetic flow probes . measurements were made before ( baseline ) and 30 min after infusion of 1 mg/kg escherichia coli endotoxin ( serotype 055 : b5 ) and then after 2 mg/kg propranolol at both low ( less than 10 mmhg ) left ventricular filling pressure ( lvfp ) and high ( greater than 10 mmhg ) lvfp . ventricular function curves , aortic pressure-flow ( p-q ) relationships , and venous return ( vr ) curves were analyzed . we found that endotoxin did not alter vr curves but shifted the aortic p-q curves to the left with pressure on the x-axis ( p less than 0.05 ) . volume loading increased sv ( p less than 0.01 ) because of a rightward shift of the vr curve . no specific differences occurred with either sync or async hfjv during endotoxin , presumably because of preserved vr and shifted aortic p-q . the lack of cardiac cycle-specific effects of itp appears to be due to the selective endotoxin-induced changes in peripheral vasomotor tone that counterbalance any depressed myocardial contractility . 
paradoxical embolism : an underestimated entity . a plea for comprehensive work-up . forty-one cases of arterial embolism were reviewed . the work-up included m + 2d echocardiography in 29 patients ( 71 % ) , arteriography in 22 ( 54 % ) , both echocardiography and arteriography in 19 ( 46 % ) , and abdominal aortic ultrasound in 18 ( 43 % ) . the sources of emboli were probable cardiac ( 8 = 20 % ) -- mural cardiac thrombus detected by echocardiogram ; possible cardiac ( 12 = 29 % ) -- arrhythmias or other cardiac pathology detected without mural thrombus ; probable arterio-arterial ( 7 = 17 % ) -- proximal arterial thrombus detected ; probable paradoxical embolism ( 2 = 5 % ) -- fulfills the johnson criteria with cardiac defect and right-to-left shunt detected by contrast echo in one patient and cardiac catheterization in the other ; possible paradoxical embolism ( 3 = 7 % ) -- meets two of three johnson criteria without evidence of other source ; and unknown source ( 9 = 22 % ) -- conventional work-up negative or incomplete . five of nine patients ( 56 % ) less than 50 years old had probable or possible paradoxical embolism , while in two patients ( 22 % ) , the origin was unknown . conclusion : ( 1 ) a significant proportion of patients with an arterial embolus are discharged with the source of emboli unknown , ( 2 ) paradoxical embolism must be considered and contrast saline or transesophageal echocardiogram should be done in patients under 50 years old . 
the association of carotid artery stenosis with carotid sinus hypersensitivity . transitory cerebral ischaemic attack provoked by carotid sinus reflex the association of internal carotid stenosis with the carotid sinus syndrome represents a special clinical entity . transitory cerebral ischaemic attack ( tia ) will usually be manifested by activation of carotid sinus reflex . eighteen patients were observed suffering from both carotid sinus hypersensitivity and tia . the patients had had tia 's for many years . unilateral internal carotid stenosis was detected in 15 cases , while 3 patients had bilateral carotid stenosis . on carotid sinus stimulation , syncope appeared and a tia could be provoked . the mean duration of the syncopic attack was 5500 ms and was based on sinus arrest in 14 cases and on third degree av block in 4 cases . in all patients carotid artery disobliteration was performed ; in 14 patients pacemaker implantation was necessary , while 4 patients could be treated by atropine medication . the development of a tia could be abolished in every patient and 14 patients remained totally symptom free . 
large diameter expanded polytetrafluoroethylene grafts for infrarenal aortic aneurysm surgery . the performance of an expanded polytetrafluoroethylene ( eptfe ) graft used for aortic aneurysm replacement was evaluated . eptfe grafts were implanted in 241 patients undergoing infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm ( aaa ) repair . sixty patients were operated as emergencies for aneurysm rupture and 181 electively . one hundred and fourteen bifurcated and 127 tube grafts were inserted . the transperitoneal approach was used in 64 cases and the remainder were placed using a retroperitoneal approach . there was a one-month mortality of 2.8 % in elective and 20 % in emergency cases . median follow-up was 26 months . specific graft complications included one infected graft resulting in a graft-enteric fistula . no graft rupture , degeneration , dilatation , pseudoaneurysm or late graft limb thromboses were observed in up to 7 years of follow-up . the aortic eptfe prosthesis demonstrated satisfactory performance over the period studied . 
splenorenal arterial shunt in the treatment of renovascular hypertension . approach by a lumbar-retroperitoneal incision . in a period of 16 years , 29 consecutive patients were operated on for a splenorenal arterial shunt through a lumbotomy incision and a retroperitoneal approach . there were 18 males and 11 females with a medium age of 42 years . all cases had uncontrollable and severe hypertension for an average medium time of 48 months , 11 patients had variable degrees of renal insufficiency . the diagnosis was made utilizing standard methods including in all cases angiography of the abdominal aorta , celiac axis and renal arteries . one patient died after the operation due to intestinal infarction , the remaining have been followed for a medium time of 50 months . all patients improved or cured their renal insufficiency . the hypertension was cured in 23 , improved in 4 and failed in 1 , this latter patient was successfully autotransplanted . a precise exposition of the surgical technique is presented with comments about their advantages and indications . a review of the literature in surgical experience with the technique of splenorenal arterial anastomosis has been done . 
pseudoaneurysm : diagnosis with color doppler ultrasound . increasing numbers of interventional radiologic procedures , often with large arterial catheters , have led to increasing total numbers of complications . pseudoaneurysm is not an infrequent complication . it is often difficult to differentiate pseudoaneurysm clinically from hematoma . in the past , we have used gray scale duplex scanning to aid in this differentiation . we have recently found color doppler scanning to allow quicker , easier , and more accurate diagnosis . color doppler imaging also can often demonstrate the track between the artery and the aneurysm . 
clinical results of femoropopliteal bypass using externally supported ( exs ) dacron grafts : with a comparison of above - and below-knee anastomosis . as of the end of september 1989 , 52 exs dacron grafts had been implanted for femoropopliteal bypass operations . the distal ends of 27 grafts were anastomosed to above-knee popliteal arteries and those of 25 grafts to below-knee popliteal arteries . the cumulative patency rate of above-knee grafts was 71.3 % at 54 months , and that of below-knee grafts was 78.8 % at 48 months ( n.s. ) . kinking and stenosis of the arteriosclerotic proximal and/or mid popliteal artery when the knee was bent were angiographically remarkable . these changes may explain why some femoropopliteal grafts occlude with time and why the late results of above-knee grafts are not much better than those of below-knee grafts . 
superficial femoral artery as inflow for bypass to the proximal popliteal artery . we have obtained long term follow-up on 58 patients in whom the superficial femoral artery was used as a donor site for bypass to the proximal popliteal artery . the indication for the reconstructive procedure was intermittent claudication 36 % , rest pain 34 % , and gangrene 26 % . all patients had angiographic evidence of a patent proximal superficial femoral artery and many had relative indications for short bypass such as limited saphenous vein availability or compromised medical condition . there was a cumulative patency rate of 79 % by life table method for the series with a six year follow-up . we have observed that the superficial femoral artery is a satisfactory inflow site for proximal popliteal bypass grafts in selected patients . the procedure can maximize use of a limited segment of vein with minimal operative time and morbidity . inflow stenosis can be revised or long bypass procedures can be offered in the event of graft failure . 
crural artery bypass with adjunctive arteriovenous fistula . a modification in distal anastomosis . we carried out crural artery bypass with an adjunctive arteriovenous fistula in 8 lower extremities of 7 patients with severe ischemic symptoms and poor distal run-off . mean blood flow rates in the implanted grafts ranged from 43 to 340 ml/min and those of the reconstructed crural arteries from 20 to 100 ml/min . a stenotic lesion was noted on postoperative angiogram in one patient and stasis symptoms caused by downward blood flow into the distal veins in another . the other patients have remained well with good function of the grafts 1-5 years after surgery . we modified the distal corner of the anastomosis as follows : three additional interrupted simple sutures were made on the anterior wall of the concomitant arteriotomy and venotomy incisions after making the common posterior wall of the vessel incisions . a vascular pocket formed at the distal corner of the anastomosis prevents stricture at the anastomosis . the vein is finally ligated just distal to the fistula to intercept downward blood flow into the distal veins . this modification in technique is recommended to prevent stricture of the distal anastomosis and postoperative stasis symptoms . 
venous dysfunction of late pregnancy persists after delivery . pregnancy is associated with dvt , pelvic thrombophlebitis , and lower extremity varicosities . pelvic venous compression by the gravid uterus is blamed . a prospective controlled study using plethysmography was performed . venous capacitance and outflow were measured at term , and at 1 week , 6 weeks and 3 months following delivery . results show decreased venous capacitance and venous outflow at term pregnancy , no improvement 1 week after delivery , modest improvement at 6 weeks , and dramatic statistically significant improvement in both parameters by 3 months . the persistence of venous dysfunction for several weeks after delivery indicates that changes in venous function at term pregnancy are largely the result of factors other than pelvic venous compression by the gravid uterus . 
a rare case of renovascular hypertension due to iatrogenic thoracoabdominal aortic dissection . a report of successful surgical treatment in childhood . renovascular hypertension due to iatrogenic thoracoabdominal aortic dissection in an 8-year-old girl with aortic valvular stenosis is presented . a splenorenal arterial anastomosis without splenectomy was successfully performed . this procedure is considered best suited for children with thoracoabdominal aortic dissection as the autogenous graft is expected to grow and provide long-term patency . the spleen left in situ was expected to be advantageous , from the immunological aspect , at the time of open heart surgery for aortic valvular stenosis , which was anticipated in the near future in this child . 
campylobacter fetus infection of abdominal aortic aneurysm . a 61-year-old man with campylobacter fetus infection of an abdominal aortic aneurysm treated surgically is presented herein , the fifth survival case reported in the literature . fever and back pain preceded the enlargement of atherosclerotic abdominal aortic aneurysm . the patient tolerated satisfactorily total excision of the aneurysm followed by axillo-femoral prosthetic bypass . antibiotic therapy consisted of intravenous infusion of fosfomycin and gentamicin and oral administration of minocycline . the organism cultured from the aneurysmal wall and intraluminal thrombi was identified as campylobacter fetus from its typical characteristics . it is concluded that this organism should be considered in all cases of infected aneurysm in elderly or debilitated patients . 
parenteral illegal drug use and limb loss . the problem of illegal drug abuse and extremity loss was identified in 27 patients-22 men and 5 women , with a mean age of 26 years . associated medical problems included : smoking in 27 , cardiac disease in 2 , diabetes in 3 , and hypertension in 3 . six femoral pseudoaneurysms , 2 with distal emboli and all with sepsis and thrombosis , directly contributed to limb loss along with 2 patients with progressive phlegmasia dolens . there were 3 below-the-elbow , 7 above-the-knee , 11 below-the-knee , and 6 transmetatarsal amputations . eight patients received prostheses ; 8 patients subsequently died in follow-up . 
femoral saphenous vein bypass in a newborn . this is believed to be the youngest patient to undergo a saphenous vein bypass for iatrogenic trauma of the right superficial femoral artery . the infant had emergency right heart catheterisation and rashkind septostomy for severe desaturation due to transposition of the great arteries . during the exposure of the saphenous vein , the superficial femoral artery was accidentally severed at it 's origin . an attempt to restore the circulation by end-to-end anastomosis failed and resulted in persistent limb ischemia for over 4 hours . the baby was reoperated upon , the damaged part of the superficial femoral artery was resected and a saphenous vein graft interposed between the common and the distal superficial femoral artery . 
preoperative evaluation and surgical treatment for tricuspid regurgitation associated with acquired valvular heart disease . the kay-boyd method vs the carpentier-edwards ring method . this study compared the results of annuloplastic repair of tricuspid regurgitation ( tr ) using doppler echocardiography . sixty-three patients who underwent tricuspid annuloplasty were studied . thirty-four patients received kay-boyd annuloplasty and 29 carpentier-edwards ring annuloplasty . a new classification of tr based on the direction and area of regurgitation flow on doppler echocardiogram was applied preoperatively . in the kay-boyd group , 10 cases showed massive tr and 24 cases showed localized tr preoperatively . localized tr was well controlled in all cases , but 8 of 9 cases of massive tr showed grade iii residual tr . in the c-e group , 21 cases showed massive tr and 8 cases showed localized tr . all cases were well controlled postoperatively . we conclude that ( 1 ) although the kay-boyd method is acceptable for localized tr , the c-e method should be employed for massive tr ; ( 2 ) analyzing the regurgitant pattern of tr by doppler echocardiogram is useful in selecting an appropriate surgical technique . 
new quantitative method for evaluating tricuspid regurgitation . a new quantitative method for evaluating regurgitation ( tr ) is proposed in order to select the most suitable treatment for functional tr associated with acquired valvular heart disease . the regurgitant volume per beat ( vtr ) is calculated using two-dimensional color doppler and continuous-wave doppler echocardiographies . in a study of 48 patients , preoperative vtr showed a significant correlation with tricuspid annular diameter at end-diastole , right atrial mean pressure and right ventricular end-diastolic pressure . patients were classified into 3 groups according to preoperative vtr : group i , vtr less than 10 cc ( no . 18 ) ; group ii , vtr = 10-20 cc ( no . 18 ) ; group iii , vtr greater than or equal to 20 cc ( no . 12 ) . this classification correlated well with the intraoperative findings of tr . in all group i patients , vtr decreased without any tricuspid valve repair . in group ii , 17 of 18 patients underwent tricuspid annuloplasty , and showed a decrease in vtr to below 10 cc after surgery . in group iii , 10 underwent tricuspid annuloplasty and 2 tricuspid valve replacement . three of the 10 with tricuspid annuloplasty showed a significant degree of postoperative vtr ( 10-20 cc ) . these 3 patients as well as the 2 with tricuspid valve replacement showed a preoperative peak-to-peak pressure difference across the tricuspid valve during the ejection phase ( rvsp-tav ) of less than or equal to 20 mmhg and tricuspid annular diameter at end-diastole of greater than or equal to 50 mm . in conclusion , no tricuspid valve repair was required in group i ( tr i ) . for group ii ( tr ii ) patients , tricuspid annuloplasty was necessary and adequate for tr correction . for group ii ( tr iii ) patients , a more substantial procedure like tricuspid valve replacement should be performed , especially when the preoperative rvsp-rav is less than or equal to 20 mmhg and tricuspid annular diameter at end-diastole is greater than or equal to 50 mm . 
repetitive intraoperative mapping and cryotherapy improve the results of endocardial resection for ventricular tachycardia . patients with recurrent ventricular tachycardia or a history of a sudden cardiac death episode and ventricular tachycardia inducible in the electrophysiology laboratory have a high incidence of recurrence and a high mortality despite medical therapy . map-guided endocardial resection has improved treatment results , but is associated with a 10-30 % failure rate . in our initial experience with endocardial resection ( group i ) we incurred a 30 % treatment failure rate . in the present study we have found the addition of sequential intraoperative mapping and routine use of cryotherapy ( group ii ) improved our results of ventricular tachycardia control without significant additional morbidity or mortality . 
surgical indication for aortic arch hypoplasia in infants . to determine the surgical indications for aortic arch hypoplasia , the distal arch outer diameter , distal arch index ( ratio of the distal arch diameter to the normal aortic ring diameter ) , and postoperative pressure gradient across the aortic arch were studied in 23 patients under 6 months of age who underwent surgery for coarctation and/or aortic arch hypoplasia . the ratio of the pressure gradient across the arch to the right radial artery was used to evaluate the postoperative level of stenosis . the maximum ratio of the pressure gradient that could be tolerated after surgery was considered to be 0.15 from the operative results . negative correlations were found between the distal arch outer diameter and postoperative pressure gradient ratio ( r = 0.80 ) , and the distal arch index and postoperative pressure gradient ratio ( r = 0.80 ) . these correlations proved that in order to obtain a postoperative pressure gradient ratio of 0.15 or less , a distal arch outer diameter of 3.9 mm or more and a distal arch index of 0.63 or more were necessary . consequently , a distal arch outer diameter of 3.9 mm or a distal arch index of 0.63 is considered to indicate that aortic arch hypoplasia is in need of repair . 
anomalous origin of the left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery . surgical alternatives depending of the age of the patient . four cases of anomalous origin of the left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery , three of which were operated upon in our centre , are presented . an aortocoronary bypass with reversed autologous saphenous vein was carried out in both of the children ; and in the adult , the anomalous ostium was closed from the interior of the pulmonary artery . after 84 , 72 , and 4 months of evolution , respectively , they were found to be asymptomatic , the mitral insufficiency had disappeared and the venous graft remained patent . in this paper , the clinical form of presentation , diagnostic possibilities and surgical treatment are analysed . 
infective endocarditis and an embolomycotic aneurysm in a 25-month-old child . infective endocarditis in young children is uncommon , especially where there is no underlying structural heart disease . while septic embolization in adults occurs in up to 43 % of the cases of endocarditis , there is little data on systemic embolization in cases of children . we present an unusual case of a 25-month-old child with infective endocarditis and an embolomycotic aneurysm treated by mitral valve replacement and aortoiliac reconstruction . 
annulo-aortic ectasia with debakey type ii dissecting aneurysm in gaucher 's disease . annulo-aortic ectasia is an extremely rare complication of gaucher 's disease . we report successful surgery in a patient with gaucher 's disease complicated by annulo-aortic ectasia and aortic dissection . cabrol 's operation was accomplished without bleeding or sternal adaptation problems . 
repair of coarctation with persistent fifth arterial arch and atresia of the fourth aortic arch . coarctation of the aorta with persistent fifth arterial arch and atresia of the fourth aortic arch between the left common carotid and left subclavian arteries was treated surgically in a two-month-old boy with transposition of the great arteries and double-outlet right ventricle . the aortic arch was repaired using side-to-side anastomosis of the left common carotid and left subclavian arteries , patch repair of the coarctated segment at the origin of the left subclavian artery , and ligation of the patent ductus arteriosus . pulmonary arterial banding and balloon atrioseptostomy were performed for associated anomalies . 
the use of ptfe graft to correct anomalous drainage of persistent left superior vena cava . a new technique to correct persistent left superior vena cava ( lsvc ) drainage into the left atrium is described in a 14-year-old patient with situs inversus , left atrial isomerism common atrium , and mitral valve regurgitation . during surgery , occlusion of the lsvc markedly increased the venous pressure , precluding its ligation . because of the malposition of the heart and the unusual atrial anatomy , correction with an intra-atrial baffle was not attempted . after correcting the intra-cardiac anomaly , the lsvc was divided and anastomosed to the " right " atrial appendage using a segment of ptfe graft . the postoperative course was uneventful and an angiogram demonstrated excellent performance of the graft . 
rapid expression of heat shock protein in the rabbit after brief cardiac ischemia . the effect of brief myocardial ischemia on the expression of heat shock protein ( hsp 70 ) was examined in an in vivo rabbit model of myocardial ischemia using northern blotting . functional studies were carried out in the open-chested anesthetized rabbit . the large marginal branch of the left circumflex was occluded four times for 5 min . using piezoelectric crystals implanted midwall in the ischemic zone , end-diastolic length , end-systolic length , and percent segmental shortening were assessed . expression of hsp 70 was measured by northern blotting . a single 5-min coronary occlusion doubled the expression of hsp 70 whereas four cycles of 5 min of ischemia/5 min of reperfusion resulted in a threefold increase in hsp 70 mrna ( p less than 0.001 ) . measurements with the piezoelectric crystals showed mild myocardial dysfunction concomitant with the increase in hsp 70 . this increase in hsp 70 mrna after repetitive brief ischemia was transient , occurring as early as 1 h and returning to baseline by 24 h after ischemia . western blot analysis with a monoclonal antibody to hsp 70 was used to compare sham and postischemic myocardial hsp 70 levels . changes in the amount of hsp 70 were evident as early as 2 h and were even more striking at 24 h. 
loss of endothelium-dependent relaxant activity in the pulmonary circulation of rats exposed to chronic hypoxia . to determine whether exposure to chronic hypoxia and subsequent development of pulmonary hypertension induces alterations of endothelium-dependent relaxation in rat pulmonary vascular bed , we studied isolated lung preparations from rats exposed to either room air ( controls ) or hypoxia ( h ) during 1 wk ( 1w-h ) , 3 wk ( 3w-h ) , or 3w-h followed by 48 h recovery to room air ( 3wh + r ) . in lungs pretreated with meclofenamate ( 3 microm ) , the endothelium-dependent vasodilator responses to acetylcholine ( 10 ( -9 ) -10 ( -6 ) m ) and ionophore a23187 ( 10 ( -9 ) -10 ( -7 ) m ) were examined during conditions of increased tone by u46619 ( 50 pmol/min ) . acetylcholine or a23187 produced dose-dependent vasodilation in control lungs , this response was reduced in group 1w-h ( p less than 0.02 ) , abolished in group 3w-h ( p less than 0.001 ) , and restored in group 3wh + r. in contrast , the endothelium-independent vasodilator agent sodium nitroprusside remained fully active in group 3w-h . the pressor response to 300 pm endothelin was greater in group 3w-h than in controls ( 6.8 + / - 0.5 mmhg vs. 1.6 + / - 0.2 mmhg , p less than 0.001 ) but was not potentiated by the endothelium-dependent relaxing factor ( edrf ) antagonists : hydroquinone ( 10 ( -4 ) m ) ; methylene blue ( 10 ( -4 ) m ) ; and pyrogallol ( 3 x 10 ( -5 ) m ) as it was in controls . it was similar to controls in group 3w-h + r. our results demonstrate that hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension is associated with a loss of edrf activity in pulmonary vessels , with a rapid recovery on return to a normoxic environment . 
urticaria : current therapy . although the ideal treatment for urticaria is identification and removal of its cause , no underlying cause can be discerned in the majority of instances . the chief clinical problem is the treatment of chronic idiopathic urticaria . h1-receptor antagonists are the major class of therapeutic agents used in the management of chronic idiopathic urticaria . the h1 antagonists have been divided into subgroups based on their chemical structure . the second-generation h1 antagonists now available are particularly advantageous for individuals who must remain alert while working . terbutaline , a beta-adrenergic agonist , is of occasional benefit as an adjunct therapy in combination with an h1 antagonist . the oral administration of disodium cromoglycate is ineffective in patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria , although a few individuals with urticaria caused by food allergy may respond to this drug . it is best to avoid repeated injections of epinephrine and the systemic administration of corticosteroids . urticaria has a capricious course : it may respond to the administration of placebos or it may resolve spontaneously . about 50 % of the patients with urticaria are free of lesions within 1 year , but 20 % continue to have episodes for more than 20 years . 
physician practice for cardiovascular disease risk-factor reduction in six upper midwestern communities . preventive practice for coronary heart disease risk is increasingly accepted in the medical community . to determine the extent and characteristics of treatment advice for high blood pressure , blood cholesterol , and cigarette smoking , 274 randomly selected primary care physicians were interviewed by telephone in six midwestern cities . participation in the survey was 90 % . reported care for high blood pressure was consistent with national guidelines . management of high blood cholesterol varied significantly among physicians and frequently differed from national recommendations . although consensus existed on the importance of advising cigarette smoking cessation , reported approaches differed . the results observed indicate improved preventive practice compared with earlier surveys and recent national reports . continued improvement , however , is needed in cholesterol and smoking-cessation management . 
payment mechanism and patterns of use of medical services : the example of hypertension . this study explores the relationship between the use of medical services by hypertensive patients and mechanisms for payment within a single primary care practice . three payment mechanisms were explored : public assistance , a capitated health maintenance organization ( hmo ) , and fee-for-service . patterns were examined across reimbursement type for the following variables : age , sex , visit reason , number of visits , medications , tests ordered , referrals made , and recommendations for follow-up visits . illness severity was controlled in two ways : ( 1 ) by the study being focused on one diagnosis -- mild to moderate hypertension , and ( 2 ) by concurrent chronic illnesses being enumerated and included in the analysis . medical visits to the physician were examined over a 2-year period for 25 to 30 patients randomly sampled from each of the three payment mechanisms . statistically significant differences were found for patient behaviors ( total number of patient visits ) and physician behaviors ( number of medications and recommendations for revisits ) . the highest visit frequency was found for those on public assistance , followed closely by those covered by an hmo , and more distantly by those choosing fee-for-service . in a climate of cost consciousness , further study is needed to explore the impact of reimbursement mechanisms on the use of health care services . 
association between post-dexamethasone cortisol level and blood pressure in depressed inpatients . we examined the clinical data for 230 depressed inpatients who had completed a dexamethasone suppression test ( dst ) to determine whether those with an elevated post-dst serum cortisol level exhibited any of the classic physiological stigmata of cushing 's syndrome . hypertension was significantly more frequent among dst nonsuppressors ( 21.2 % ) than among normal suppressors ( 11.3 % ) . percent blood lymphocyte count was significantly lower among nonsuppressors . confounders such as gender , age , body weight , and use of antihypertensives did not account for the findings . implications for morbidity and mortality rates among patients with affective disorder are discussed . 
free and peptide-bound amino acids as indicators of ischemic damage of the rabbit spinal cord . the concentrations of free and peptide-bound amino acids aspartate ( asp ) , glutamate ( glu ) , glycine ( gly ) and gamma-aminobutyric acid ( gaba ) were studied following ischemia and recirculation in the ventral and dorsal gray matter of the rabbit spinal cord . no changes in the concentration of amino acids following ten minutes ( min ) of ischemia and four days of recovery were found . the most significant change after 20 min , and especially 40 min , of ischemia was a decrease in free asp and gaba levels in both parts of the gray matter . the relatively greater decrease in the concentration of free amino acids in the ventral horns corresponds with the greater morphological damage to this part of spinal cord following ischemia . following 40 min of ischemia and recirculation decrease in peptide-bound glu in the ventral horns and asp and glu in the dorsal horns was found . 
cardiopulmonary resuscitation and the patient with cancer . the records of 114 cancer patients suffering cardiopulmonary arrests ( cpa ) during a 3-year period at memorial sloan-kettering cancer center ( mskcc ) were retrospectively reviewed to identify variables predicting final outcome in these patients . although 65.7 % of the patients were successfully resuscitated , only 12 ( 10.5 % ) were discharged alive from the hospital . median survival after discharge was 150 days . by univariate and multivariate analysis , the only variable predicting the likelihood of a patient 's being discharged alive after a cpa was the performance status of the patient at the time of admission to the hospital . thus , a patient spending more than 50 % of the time in bed at the time of admission had only a 2.3 % chance of being discharged alive after cpa . a thorough discussion of these findings between physicians and patients and their families is strongly recommended at the time of admission to spare cancer patients unnecessary invasive resuscitative procedures . 
selective vasopressin inhibition in rats with heart failure decreases afterload and results in venodilatation . the hemodynamic effects of selective inhibition of arginine vasopressin ( avp ) with a v1 antagonist , ( ch2 ) 5yreavpa cl-1-4a , were studied in normal rats ( n = 17 ) and in rats 4 weeks after coronary artery ligation with large myocardial infarctions and elevated left ventricular end-diastolic pressures ( n = 22 ) . in normal rats avp inhibition with a 35-micrograms/kg bolus of avp v1 antagonist did not change heart rate , right atrial , left ventricular systolic , left ventricular end-diastolic or aortic pressures . there were also no changes in mean circulatory filling pressure , unstressed vascular volume , blood volume or venous compliance . in rats with infarction and elevated left ventricular end-diastolic pressures , avp inhibition did not change heart rate , right atrial pressure , mean circulatory filling pressure or blood volume , but mean aortic pressure decreased from 103 + / - 3 to 88 + / - 2 mm hg ( p less than .001 ) , venous compliance increased ( p less than .001 ) from 2.17 + / - 0.07 to 3.04 + / - 0.11 ml/mm hg/kg and unstressed vascular volume decreased from 42.3 + / - 3.1 to 34.7 + / - 2.6 ml/kg ( p less than .05 ) . we conclude that inhibition of avp with a specific v1 antagonist had no effect on the venous or arterial circulations in normal rats , but in rats with left ventricular dysfunction and heart failure after chronic myocardial infarction , avp inhibition decreased arterial pressure and caused venodilatation . 
effect of local inhibition of gamma-aminobutyric acid uptake in the dorsomedial hypothalamus on extracellular levels of gamma-aminobutyric acid and on stress-induced tachycardia : a study using microdialysis . previous studies involving local microinjection of drugs that interfere with gamma-aminobutyric acid ( gaba ) a receptor-mediated synaptic inhibition have led to the suggestion that endogenous gaba suppresses the activity of a sympatho-excitatory mechanism in the dorsomedial hypothalamus in rats . in this study , microdialysis was used to assess and to alter pharmacologically extracellular-levels of gaba within this region while simultaneously monitoring heart rate and blood pressure . in anesthetized rats , local microdialysis for 15 min with 2.5 , 10 and 40 mm nipecotic acid , an inhibitor of gaba uptake , caused concentration-related increases in gaba and taurine in the extracellular space , but no significant change in heart rate or arterial pressure . similar perfusion with 37.5 , 75 and 150 mm kcl caused concentration-related increases in gaba as well as aspartate , glutamate , taurine , glycine and alanine . only modest , variable increases in heart rate and no effect on arterial pressure were observed during the perfusions with high potassium . in conscious rats , unilateral microdialysis of the dorsomedial hypothalamus with 0.5 mm nipecotic acid for 2 to 2.5 hr before stress coupled with contralateral microinjection of muscimol ( 88 pmol/250 nl ) 5 min before stress significantly reduced air stress-induced tachycardia ; this reduction in tachycardia was associated with markedly elevated levels of gaba in dialysates collected from the dorsomedial hypothalamus . neither treatment alone significantly influenced stress-induced increases in heart rate , although perfusion with nipecotic acid alone evoked similar elevations in extracellular gaba . these results suggest that extracellular levels of endogenous gaba in the dorsomedial hypothalamus may regulate the cardiovascular response to stress . 
pharmacologic activity of bepafant ( web 2170 ) , a new and selective hetrazepinoic antagonist of platelet activating factor . the hetrazepine web 2170 ( international nonproprietary name : bepafant ) , a thieno-triazolodiazepine that is structurally related to the recently described platelet activating factor ( paf ) antagonist web 2086 , is a potent and selective paf antagonist both in vitro and in vivo . web 2170 inhibited paf-induced human platelet and neutrophil aggregation in vitro ( ic50 values : 0.3 and 0.83 microm , respectively ) but had little or no inhibitory action against aggregation induced by other agonists . the potency in vitro was comparable to that described recently for web 2086 ( casals-stenzel , j. , muacevic , g. and weber , k.h. : j. pharmacol . exp . ther . 241 : 974-981 , 1987 ) . when guinea pigs were given i.v. infusions of paf at 30 ng x kg-1 x min-1 , oral ( 0.005-0 .5 mg/kg ) as well as intravenous ( 0.005-0 .05 mg/kg ) treatment with web 2170 abrogated the intrathoracic accumulation of 111in-labeled platelets , the bronchoconstriction and the hypotension as well as the finally occurring death in a dose-dependent fashion . oral ( 0.01-1 mg/kg ) and intravenous ( 0.005-0 .1 mg/kg ) web 2170 shared with the beta 2 agonist fenoterol and the steroid dexamethasone the property of protecting elderly nmri mice from the lethal effect of paf . in anesthetized rats , intravenous ( 0.001-0 .1 mg/kg ) and oral ( 0.05-1 mg/kg ) web 2170 inhibited paf-induced hypotension in a dose-related manner . coadministration of web 2170 inhibited paf-induced increase of vascular permeability in rat skin very effectively . the half-time of duration of action in the rat was estimated to be about 5 to 6 h after oral administration and about 1.1 to 2.3 h after intravenous application . in conclusion , the hetrazepine web 2170 is a strong and selective paf antagonist , which is in vitro more or less equipotent to web 2086 . in contrast , in vivo oral web 2170 is -- depending on the species and considered parameter -- about 5 to 40 times more potent against exogenous paf-induced alterations than the recently described hetrazepine web 2086 . particularly in mice and rats , oral web 2170 is by far superior to web 2086 . 
the j-curve phenomenon and the treatment of hypertension . is there a point beyond which pressure reduction is dangerous ? we critically appraised the medical literature to evaluate whether there is a point beyond which blood pressure reduction in hypertensive subjects is no longer beneficial and possibly even deleterious . thirteen studies that stratified cardiovascular outcomes by level of achieved blood pressure in treated hypertensive subjects who had been followed up for at least 1 year were critiqued by four independent reviewers . data addressing population , protocol , and methodological characteristics were evaluated . studies did not show a consistent j-shaped relationship between treated blood pressure and stroke , but they did demonstrate a consistent j-shaped relationship for cardiac events and diastolic blood pressure . the beneficial therapeutic threshold point was 85 mm hg . we conclude that low treated diastolic blood pressure levels , ie , below 85 mm hg , are associated with increased risk of cardiac events . 
risk of angina pectoris and plasma concentrations of vitamins a , c , and e and carotene the relation between risk of angina pectoris and plasma concentrations of vitamins a , c , and e and carotene was examined in a population case-control study of 110 cases of angina , identified by the chest pain questionnaire , and 394 controls selected from a sample of 6000 men aged 35-54 . plasma concentrations of vitamins c and e and carotene were significantly inversely related to the risk of angina . there was no significant relation with vitamin a. smoking was a confounding factor . the inverse relation between angina and low plasma carotene disappeared and that with plasma vitamin c was substantially reduced after adjustment for smoking . vitamin e remained independently and inversely related to the risk of angina after adjustment for age , smoking habit , blood pressure , lipids , and relative weight . the adjusted odds ratio for angina between the lowest and highest quintiles of vitamin e concentrations was 2.68 ( 95 % confidence interval 1.07-6 .70 ; p = 0.02 ) . these findings suggest that some populations with a high incidence of coronary heart disease may benefit from eating diets rich in natural antioxidants , particularly vitamin e. 
migraine and vertebrobasilar ischemia . i studied 9 patients with migraine and posterior circulation ischemia . inclusion criteria were ( 1 ) brainstem or cerebellar infarcts or transient ischemic attacks , ( 2 ) satisfactory vertebrobasilar angiograms , and ( 3 ) migraine . excluded were patients with only occipital lobe ischemia , known arteriosclerosis , or other nonmigrainous vascular disease . two women and 7 men , ages 6 to 58 years ( mean , 34.7 ) , had transient attacks only ( 2 ) , single strokes ( 4 ) , single stroke followed by attacks ( 1 ) , or multiple strokes ( 2 ) . five had antecedent classic , 2 common migraine , and classic migraine began only after the initial ischemic event in the other two . the 7 stroke patients all had ct - or mri-documented brainstem ( 4 ) or cerebellar ( 6 ) infarcts . angiography was normal ( 3 ) or demonstrated basilar artery ( ba ) narrowing ( 2 ) or occlusion ( 4 ) , or branch occlusion ( 1 ) . in 3 patients the initially occluded ba later reopened . at follow-up ( average 4.3 years , range 1 to 9 years ) , 5 were normal and 4 had important clinical deficits . i conclude that ( 1 ) " basilar migraine " is not always benign ; it affects both sexes and a wide age range ; ( 2 ) the pattern of headaches , attacks , and strokes varies ; ( 3 ) migraine may appear only after ischemia ; ( 4 ) some patients have ba occlusion or diffuse narrowing ; and ( 5 ) ba occlusion can be temporary . 
blood pressure measurements during dental checkups representative of 26-hour registration . the effect of dental checkups on blood pressure was investigated . in 27 normotensive patients ( 13 men and 14 women ) aged 22 to 64 years ( mean 39.75 + / - 10.5 years ) , a 26-hour continuous , noninvasive blood pressure registration was carried out . of each patient at least 175 blood pressure measurements were registered during these 26 hours , giving a total amount of 4725 blood pressure measurements . a dental checkup appointment with the family dentist was included . blood pressure values displayed the well-known diurnal variation , but the visit to the dental surgeon was not accompanied by a rise in blood pressure . there was no significant difference between the blood pressure values during the 26-hour period and those during the checkup period . during a rest period after the dental checkup , neither the systolic nor the diastolic pressure fell to any degree in relation to the 26-hour values or the visit to the surgeon . 
hemorrhoids . a practical approach to an aggravating problem . although hemorrhoids are considered a minor medical problem , they may cause considerable discomfort and anxiety . fortunately , treatment is often simple and surgery is rarely necessary . in this practical article , dr cocchiara describes internal and external hemorrhoids , a classification system , and treatment choices based on the degree of involvement . 
assessment of stable ischemic heart disease . which tests are best for which patients ? an understanding of the importance of various risk factors , the pathogenesis of myocardial ischemia , and the appropriate use of various noninvasive and invasive tests is essential for management of patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease ( cad ) . although coronary angiography remains the " gold standard " for diagnosis of cad , much of the data obtained from risk factor assessment , medical history , and various noninvasive tests provides information that may be even more important than cardiac catheterization data alone for defining prognosis and directing management . 
cryoglobulinemia induced by a murine igg3 rheumatoid factor : skin vasculitis and glomerulonephritis arise from distinct pathogenic mechanisms . mrl-lpr/lpr mice spontaneously develop a lupus-like syndrome characterized by immunopathological manifestations such as necrotizing vascular lesions of ear tips and severe glomerulonephritis . similar skin vascular and glomerular lesions associated with cryoglobulinemia can be induced in normal mice by injection of a monoclonal antibody ( mab ) -- 6-19 ( gamma 3 heavy chain and kappa light chain ) , exhibiting both cryoglobulin and anti-igg2a rheumatoid factor ( rf ) activities -- derived from the mrl-lpr/lpr autoimmune mouse . to determine the role of rf and/or igg3 fc fragment-associated cryoglobulin activities in 6-19 mab-induced tissue lesions , a 6-19-j558l hybrid mab ( gamma 3 heavy chain and lambda 1 light chain ) was produced by fusion between the 6-19 hybridoma and the j558l myeloma . here we report that the 6-19-j558l hybrid mab , which loses the rf activity but retains the cryoglobulin activity , fails to induce skin vascular lesions . however , it is still able to provoke glomerular lesions identical to those caused by the 6-19 mab . further , we have observed that the depletion of the corresponding autoantigen , igg2a , in mice by treatment with anti-igm antisera from birth also prevents the development of skin but not glomerular lesions . our results indicate that both rf and cryoglobulin activities of the 6-19 mab are required for the development of skin vasculitis , but its cryoglobulin activity alone is sufficient to cause glomerular lesions . in addition , cdna cloning and sequencing of the 6-19 mab has revealed that the 6-19 kappa light chain variable region amino acid sequence is encoded in a germ-line configuration , suggesting that immunoglobulin variable region germ-line genes could contribute to the generation of pathogenic autoantibodies . 
prevalence of hemodynamically significant stenosis of the carotid artery in an asymptomatic veteran population . the results of previous studies have suggested that significant stenosis of the carotid artery occurs in less than 6 per cent of asymptomatic patients . however , some populations studied were not representative of those seen by most vascular surgeons . accordingly , we examined two cohorts of patients at the veterans administration medical center using duplex scanning . there were 153 volunteers in group 1 , all more than 50 years of age , who were being treated at our outpatient department for nonvascular problems . there were 116 patients of similar age in group 2 but who were known to have significant arterial occlusive disease of the lower extremity . the majority of patients were men with a mean age of 64.4 years . risk factors in the total population included hypertension , diabetes mellitus , coronary arterial disease , peripheral vascular disease and smoking . over-all , significant ( greater than 50 per cent diameter ) stenosis of the carotid artery was discovered in 25 of 269 patients . the prevalence for those in group 1 was 6.5 per cent versus 12.9 per cent for those in group 2 ( p = 0.058 ) . the prevalence in patients with cardiac disease was 15.2 per cent compared with 6.8 per cent in those without cardiac disease ( p = 0.032 ) . smoking was associated with a 10.6 per cent rate of significant disease compared with a 2.3 per cent rate in nonsmokers ( p = 0.065 ) . hypertension and diabetes were not significant risk factors . significant stenosis of the carotid artery was found in seven of 40 patients in whom coronary arterial disease , peripheral vascular disease and smoking were all present . 
prophylaxis of deep venous thrombosis after acute abdominal operation . two hundred and forty-five patients who underwent acute extensive abdominal operations were randomized into three regimens to achieve optimal prophylaxis of postoperative thromboembolic complications . all of the patients were screened by the 125i-fibrinogen uptake test for seven days and if the phlebographic findings were positive . of 81 patients receiving low dose heparin , 12 had thromboembolism . of 79 receiving a combination of low dose heparin and graded compression stockings , two had thromboembolism , and of 85 receiving a combination of dextran and graded compression stockings , 13 had this complication . this difference is significant in favor of the second treatment ( p = 0.013 ) . it is concluded that the combination of low dose heparin and graded compression stockings is an effective way to prevent thromboembolism after acute abdominal operations . 
natural history of progressive ischemic stroke in a population treated with heparin data on the acute natural history of progressive stroke with or without heparin treatment are limited . to define the acute course of patients treated with heparin for progressive stroke , we examined the charts of 69 such patients identified through the cornell neurology database from october 1979 to june 1985 . analysis included determining whether further clinical deterioration or hemorrhagic complications were associated with readily identifiable clinical or laboratory variables . twenty-five patients ( 36 % ) continued to deteriorate while receiving heparin , another two ( 3 % ) worsened due to intracerebral hemorrhage , and a total of 10 patients ( 14 % ) had bleeding complications . no clinical features or heparin dosing regimens distinguished the patients likely to benefit from heparin . clinical progression or hemorrhage did not correlate with the level of anticoagulation as measured by the average heparin dose per day or the mean partial thromboplastin time . without unequivocal evidence demonstrating heparin 's ineffectiveness for progressive stroke , many clinicians managing such patients will continue to use heparin . our results suggest that this decision should not be governed by such clinical features as a patient 's age or sex or by the vascular distribution of the stroke . furthermore , frequent measurement of and overzealous efforts to adjust the partial thromboplastin time may be unnecessary since it does not correlate with outcome . 
the syndrome of bilateral hemispheric border zone ischemia . symptoms compatible with vertebrobasilar ischemia have been reported in patients with unilateral or bilateral carotid occlusive disease . intracranial steal phenomena have been proposed to explain the symptoms . in a review of 54 patients with angiographically documented severe bilateral carotid stenosis ( less than or equal to 2 mm residual lumen ) or occlusion , eight had symptoms suggesting vertebrobasilar insufficiency . five patients were identified retrospectively , and the other three were evaluated prospectively . symptoms included various combinations of hemodynamically mediated , transient bilateral motor , sensory , or visual impairment . dysarthria , dysphagia , and diplopia were generally absent . each patient also described additional symptoms compatible with transient hemispheric or retinal ischemia . the anatomic regions subserving the bilateral vertebrobasilar-like symptoms could be correlated with angiographically estimated arterial border zones in both hemispheres and may thus represent bilateral hemispheric border zone ischemia rather than brain stem ischemia . an intracranial steal need not be invoked . 
diagnostic significance of flow separation within the carotid bifurcation demonstrated by digital subtraction angiography . the presence of an area of reversed blood flow due to flow separation in the interval carotid artery is a normal finding in doppler ultrasound studies in vivo as well as in model carotid bifurcations . this flow separation phenomenon is caused by the geometry of the carotid bifurcation and the fluid dynamics of blood . we demonstrated the flow separation phenomenon on lateral-projection intra-arterial digital subtraction angiograms in 99 of 100 carotid bifurcations . the mean duration of flow separation was 5.8 seconds , with values up to 14 seconds in normal carotid bifurcations . the presence of this flow separation phenomenon is almost independent of atherosclerotic lesions and is not correlated with cerebral ischemia . therefore , the angiographic finding of a flow separation has no diagnostic value . however , our results refer to a factor that may be important in the genesis of atherosclerosis at the carotid bifurcation , namely the duration of the stay of blood and its components within the area of flow separation . 
correlation between amino acid release and neuropathologic outcome in rat brain following middle cerebral artery occlusion . using in vivo brain microdialysis , we studied amino acid release in the striatum and cortex of eight rats following permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion . we then processed all brains for histopathologic assessment of the volume of ischemic damage 4 hours after occlusion . ischemic damage was varied by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery at a point either proximal ( n = 4 ) or distal ( n = 4 ) to the lenticulostriate vessels . proximal occlusion elevated the dialysate contents of all amino acids . the largest increases occurred for the potentially neurotoxic amino acids aspartate and glutamate and for taurine ( 800-2 ,800 % of basal efflux ) . we observed smaller increases for the " metabolic " amino acids ( 280-580 % of basal efflux ) . distal occlusion did not affect amino acid efflux in the striatum , and release in the cortex was significantly lower than that following proximal occlusion . we compared release data with acute histopathologic outcome . proximal occlusion resulted in a large volume of ischemic damage in the cortex and striatum ( 25-48 % of hemispheric volume ) . a smaller volume of ischemic damage was noted following distal occlusion ( 0-21 % of hemispheric volume ) . the volume of ischemic damage and the amount of amino acid release were significantly correlated ( p less than 0.05 ) . 
rupture of atheromatous plaque as a cause of thrombotic occlusion of stenotic internal carotid artery . we analyzed the clinical profiles and autopsy findings of five patients who died shortly after developing cerebral infarction following thrombotic occlusion of the internal carotid artery . in all five cases , thrombotic occlusion was caused by rupture of the fibrous lining over the gruel of atheroma at the origin of the internal carotid artery showing tight stenosis of the lumen . the mean + / - sd shorter diameter of the lumen at the site of occlusion was 1.5 + / - 0.4 mm . our results show that an internal carotid artery with tight stenosis of the lumen by atheroma containing gruel harbors a risk of thrombotic occlusion , which may give rise to cerebral infarction by artery-to-artery embolism or by reduced cerebral perfusion . 
angiographic contrast media interference with laser-induced fluorescence excitation and detection in atherosclerotic human coronary arteries . laser-induced fluorescence has been used in conjunction with angiography for laser angioplasty guidance . the effect of radiopaque contrast media on the excitation and detection of arterial fluorescence has not been previously reported . accordingly , fluorescence emission spectra from human coronary artery necropsy specimens ( n = 7 ) during excitation with pulsed excimer laser excitation ( 308 nm ) was examined before and after the addition of three different contrast media , sodium and meglumine diatrizoate , sodium and meglumine ioxaglate , and iopamidol . a decrease in overall fluorescence intensity was observed at all wavelengths for each contrast agent examined . the decrease in intensity of fluorescence emission was more marked at wavelengths less than 410 nm than at wavelengths above 425 nm . similar effects were observed for contrast media diluted with whole blood . absorption spectra for all three contrast media demonstrated absorption in the ultraviolet centered around 240 nm . we conclude that preferential absorption in the ultraviolet range by contrast media interferes with the excitation and detection of laser-induced fluorescence ; use of visible light excitation may obviate interference with laser-induced fluorescence analysis of plaque . 
normalization of doppler indices of diastolic dysfunction during pacing is a sign of ischemic mitral regurgitation . twenty-three patients with angina who were undergoing diagnostic cardiac catheterization underwent cardiac pacing with simultaneous hemodynamic and doppler echocardiographic evaluation to assess the effects of pacing-induced ischemic on mitral valve velocity . seventeen patients had significant coronary artery disease , and six patients had normal coronary arteries . doppler and hemodynamic measurements were performed at rest and immediately after pacing was discontinued to 91 % + / - 7 % of maximal predicted heart rate . seven patients experienced new or significant increases in severity of mitral regurgitation after pacing as revealed by doppler examination . this group had a significant increase ( p = 0.007 ) in early but not in late peak filling velocities immediately after pacing was discontinued , with a resultant decrease in late to early ratios , which decreased from 1.01 % + / - 0.12 to 0.70 % + / - 0.19 ( p = 0.006 ) . left ventricular end-diastolic pressure increased significantly from 16.7 % + / - 6.8 mm hg to 29.4 % + / - 5.3 mm hg after cardiac pacing ( p less than 0.001 ) . patients with coronary disease who did not develop mitral regurgitation also had significant increases in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure from 18.7 % + / - 5.8 mm hg to 24.3 % + / - 8.6 mm hg ( p less than 0.05 ) . there were no changes in late or early wave amplitude , late to early ratio , or other doppler measurements in any of the other groups . we conclude that mitral regurgitation caused by pacing-induced myocardial ischemia normalizes doppler indices of mitral inflow , which in turn , may mask persistent or worsened left ventricular diastolic dysfunction . 
coronary angioplasty of diffuse coronary artery disease . from january 1983 through december 1987 , 98 patients underwent angioplasty of at least one diffusely diseased coronary artery . diffuse coronary disease was described as : group i , narrowing greater than or equal to 50 % that involved the entire vessel ( 40 patients ) , group ii , long lesions greater than or equal to 2 cm in length ( 39 patients ) , group iii , three or more lesions in the same vessel ( 19 patients ) . there were 65 men and 33 women , with a mean age of 60 years ; 64 patients ( 65 % ) had unstable angina , 23 patients ( 23 % ) were diabetic , 31 ( 32 % ) had prior myocardial infarctions , and 12 had prior bypass surgery . multivessel disease was present in 89 % of patients . angioplasty of only the diffusely diseased vessel was performed in 41 patients , and additional vessels were dilated in 57 patients . overall , of 396 lesions ( four per patient ) and 197 vessels ( two per patient ) attempted , success was achieved in 382 lesions ( 96 % ) and 187 vessels ( 95 % ) ; angiographic success was achieved in 112 of 120 diffusely diseased vessels ( 93 % ) . clinical success was achieved in 91 patients ( 93 % ) . the overall complication rate ( death , myocardial infarction , urgent bypass surgery ) was 8 % ( 8 of 98 ) : six patients ( 6 % ) had myocardial infarction ( one q wave , five non-q wave ) , one patient ( 1 % ) had urgent bypass surgery , and two patients ( 2 % ) died ( one during bypass surgery ) . the majority of complications ( 7 of 8 or 87 % ) , including the two deaths , occurred in group i patients , with a 17.5 % rate , versus 2.5 % in group ii and 0 % in group iii , p less than 0.002 . 
high output failure in patients with peripartum cardiomyopathy : a comparative study with dilated cardiomyopathy . although few studies have reported on relatively preserved ventricular function in patient with peripartum cardiomyopathy , the condition is usually believed to have the typical low-output congestive hemodynamic pattern of the dilated congestive cardiomyopathies . two groups of patients , 14 with peripartum cardiomyopathy and 12 with dilated congestive cardiomyopathy who were matched for gender and age , were studied . they had normal blood pressure and similar new york heart association functional class , nutritional status , thyroid function and routine laboratory evaluation . all patients were catheterized during stable in-hospital compensation of heart failure , which was achieved by bed rest , sodium restriction , and administration of digoxin and diuretics long ( more than 3 months ) after delivery . significant differences ( p less than 0.05 ) between patients with peripartum cardiomyopathy and those with dilated congestive cardiomyopathy were observed in regard to : ( 1 ) cardiac index : 3.34 + / - 1.36 l/min/m2 versus 2.24 + / - 0.72 l/min/m2 , ( 2 ) systemic vascular resistance : 1713 + / - 567 dynes.sec.cm-5 versus 2194 + / - 603 dynes.sec.cm-5 , ( 3 ) right ventricular stroke work index : 8.6 + / - 4.2 g.m / m2 versus 14.8 + / - 8.2 g.m / m2 in the peripartum cardiomyopathy and the dilated congestive cardiomyopathy groups , respectively . three of the patients with peripartum cardiomyopathy had resting cardiac index values that were even higher than the normal upper limit for our laboratory ( 4.5 l/min/m2 ) : 4.80 , 5.70 , and 5.63 l/min/m2 . they also had nearly normal left ventricular ejection fractions : 0.68 , 0.41 , and 0.51 , respectively . these results indicate that , unlike the common dilated cardiomyopathy , the hemodynamic pattern in patients with peripartum cardiomyopathy is not homogeneous , and some patients have high-output failure and near normal left ventricular function . 
pulse rate , coronary heart disease , and death : the nhanes i epidemiologic follow-up study . to determine whether associations of elevated resting pulse rate with chd incidence or death in white men are independent of other risk factors and whether such associations exist for women and blacks , data were examined from the nhanes i epidemiologic follow-up study . over a follow-up period of 6 to 13 years , elevated rr for chd incidence were found for older white men with baseline pulse greater than 84 beats/min compared with less than 74 beats/min after controlling multiple risk factors ( rr = 1.37 , 95 % cl 1.02 , 1.84 ) . risks of death from all causes , cardiovascular diseases , and noncardiovascular diseases were also elevated for white men with elevated pulse rate independent of other risk factors . chd incidence was increased in white women with elevated pulse rate . risks of death from all causes , cardiovascular diseases , and noncardiovascular diseases , were also elevated for white men with elevated pulse rate independent of other risk factors . chd incidence was increased in white women with elevated pulse rate . risk of death from all causes and cardiovascular diseases was elevated in black men and women with elevated pulse rate . risk of death from noncardiovascular disease was elevated in black men with elevated pulse rate . the association with cardiovascular death was particularly striking in black women , even after adjusting for baseline risk factors ( rr 3.03 , 95 % cl 1.46 , 6.28 ) . further studies are needed to assess associations of pulse rate with chd in blacks and to elucidate mechanisms in all groups . 
a randomized controlled trial of allopurinol in coronary bypass surgery . a plethora of experimental evidence indicates that allopurinol reduces the formation of cytotoxic free radicals during myocardial ischemia and reperfusion . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of allopurinol on cardiac performance and early mortality after coronary bypass surgery . allopurinol ( n = 89 ) or placebo ( n = 80 ) was administered to 169 patients before surgery . randomization produced groups evenly matched for surgical risk factors . hospital mortality rate in the placebo group was 14 of 80 ( 18 % ) in the allopurinol group 4 of 89 ( 4 % ) , p = 0.014 . cardiac performance , scored by cardiac index and the need for ionotropic or mechanical support , was significantly better in the allopurinol group . more nonfatal complications occurred in the allopurinol group . when either a complication or death is termed an event , the proportion of events was equal in the two groups . no side effects were identified . we now administer allopurinol to all patients who are undergoing bypass surgery unless specifically contraindicated . 
the utility of echocardiography in the diagnostic strategy of postinfarction ventricular septal rupture : a comparison of two-dimensional echocardiography versus doppler color flow imaging . the diagnostic accuracy of doppler color flow imaging in the diagnosis of postinfarction ventricular septal defects has not been established . in this study , 43 patients with unexplained hypotension or a new murmur in the periinfarct period were evaluated with conventional two-dimensional echocardiography and doppler color flow imaging . the presence of a ventricular septal defect was confirmed by oximetry , ventriculography , operative repair , or autopsy in each case . both two-dimensional and doppler color flow imaging were 100 % specific in excluding a ventricular septal defect . doppler color flow imaging correctly identified the 12 confirmed ventricular septal defects in this study ( 100 % sensitivity ) , whereas any combination of two-dimensional criteria only correctly identified seven ( 58 % sensitive ) ( p less than 0.05 ) . doppler color flow imaging is superior to conventional two-dimensional imaging in the diagnosis of a postinfarction ventricular septal defect . in addition , doppler color flow imaging localized the septal defect , and thus guided therapy and technique for repair . carefully performed doppler color flow examination can exclude or result in the rapid diagnosis of a ventricular septal defect , which eliminates the need for further time-consuming confirmatory testing . 
dipyridamole perfusion scintigraphy : the experience with its application in one hundred seventy patients with known or suspected unstable angina . we evaluated the safety , accuracy , and potential clinical utility of intravenous dipyridamole perfusion scintigraphy with thallium-201 in 170 patients , 78 with suspected and 92 with known unstable angina . all had coronary angiography . noncardiac side effects ( 26 % ) , induced chest discomfort ( 44 % ) , and st segment changes ( 12 % ) were similar in the two groups . no significant arrhythmias occurred . two patients had prolonged chest pain , both with extensive reversible image abnormalities and associated creatinine kinase-mb release . both had elective bypass surgery . twenty-eight patients had normal coronary arteries , and 35 had single-vessel disease . scintigraphic per patient sensitivity and specificity were 91 % and 79 % with a per vessel sensitivity of 74 % and a per vessel specificity of 78 % without between-group differences . during a brief follow-up period , 62 patients with image abnormalities had coronary revascularization , and there were seven deaths without intergroup differences . in a similar patient group that did not have angiography , scintigraphic defects were less frequent and less extensive , revascularization was not performed , and subsequent deaths occurred less often . dipyridamole perfusion scintigraphy is an accurate alternative to exercise testing in the evaluation of patients with unstable angina pectoris . although not without risk , the method appears relatively safe and should be considered as a guide to diagnosis , and probably to prognosis and management . 
myocardial metabolic and hemodynamic effects of a sustained intravenous infusion of nifedipine with and without metoprolol in patients with unstable angina . we tested the usefulness of a sustained intravenous infusion of nifedipine and a combination of nifedipine and metoprolol in the early management of 14 patients with unstable angina pectoris . after a 24-hour run-in period , nifedipine was titrated in a stepwise fashion ( mean dose 27 + / - 7 micrograms/min ) . after nifedipine treatment coronary blood flow increased from 150 + / - 66 to 183 + / - 74 ml/min ( p less than 0.05 ) , whereas double product , myocardial oxygen consumption , and both arterial and coronary sinus ( nor ) epinephrine levels were unchanged . myocardial lactate uptake increased from 3.4 + / - 26.1 to 31.3 + / - 26.6 mumol/min ( p less than 0.005 ) and free fatty acid uptake from 7.2 + / - 22.1 to 34.5 + / - 33.7 mumol/min ( p less than 0.05 ) . a small nonsignificant improvement in amino acid metabolism was observed . metoprolol was added in seven patients and led to a decrease in double product ( -2.2 + / - 1.6 x 10 ( 3 ) ; p less than 0.01 ) and myocardial oxygen consumption ( -3.2 + / - 3.8 ml/min ; p less than 0.05 ) . the lactate uptake/oxygen uptake ratio increased by 18 % after metoprolol ( p = ns ) . the number of episodes of chest pain decreased from 2.4 + / - 1.1 / 24 hours to 0.1 + / - 0.2 in the nifedipine group and from 2.9 + / - 1.1 / 24 hours to 0.3 + / - 0.5 in the nifedipine plus metoprolol group ( both p less than 0.01 ) . we conclude that in the acute phase of unstable angina , intravenous nifedipine can be carefully titrated to improve coronary blood flow and oxidative metabolism . the addition of metoprolol is also associated with a reduction in myocardial oxygen demand . this treatment results in significant hemodynamic stability . 
incidence and clinical significance of st segment elevation after electrical cardioversion of atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter . to study the incidence and clinical significance of postshock st segment elevations , we recorded 12-lead ecgs immediately after transthoracic direct-current electrical cardioversion in 146 patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter . among 23 patients ( 19 % ) , acute st segment elevations amounted to 1.4 + / - 0.8 mv ( mean + / - sd ) and occurred after 243 + / - 114 joules ( cumulative dose ) in the precordial leads only in 14 , concomitantly in precordial and inferior leads in two , and in the precordial and anterolateral leads in seven . they normalized within 1.5 + / - 0.8 minutes . occurrence of st segment elevation was related to previous pericardiotomy ( p less than 0.00001 ) and age ( p = 0.01 ) . estimation of myocardial enzyme release did not show evidence of myocardial damage . patients with st segment elevations had a lower conversion rate ( 48 % versus 76 % , p = 0.005 ) . long-term maintenance of sinus rhythm was also diminished ( 35 % versus 59 % , p = 0.03 ) . results of this study show that postcardioversion st segment elevation occurs predominantly in postpericardiotomy patients and may be associated with an unfavorable arrhythmia prognosis . 
fragmented atrial activity in patients with transient atrial fibrillation . prediction of atrial fibrillation ( af ) is very important in patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome or in the selection of pacemaker therapeutic modality . in 25 patients with transient af , the response of the atrial activity width to extrastimuli was examined in comparison with 25 patients without af to see if the results could be used as an index of subsequent occurrence of af . programmed electrical stimulation using eight basic stimuli followed by single or double extrastimuli ( p1p2 or p1p2p3 ) were delivered to the high right atrium , and the atrial activities were examined . the prolongation of the atrial activity caused by extrastimuli was termed fragmentation ( frg ) , and it was defined as the prolongation of more than 150 % of the basic stimuli . frg zone was defined as the zone of coupling intervals of the extrastimuli ( p1p2 or p2p3 ) that caused frg , and delta max frg was defined as the difference between the widest frg and the atrial wave width during basic stimuli . fragmentation was reproducibly induced by extrastimuli , and there was an inverse relationship between frg duration and the coupling interval of the extrastimuli ( p1p2 or p2p3 ) . frg zone and delta max frg were wider and longer in patients with transient af in comparison with the control group for both single and double extrastimuli ( p less than 0.001 ) . af inducibility using double extrastimuli was significantly high in patients with af . 
increasing the yield of ventricular tachycardia induction : a prospective , randomized comparative study of the standard ventricular stimulation protocol to a short-to-long protocol and a new two-site protocol . programmed ventricular stimulation with a standard protocol that used up to three extrastimuli was compared prospectively with a short-to-long protocol and a two-site protocol in 77 consecutive patients undergoing electrophysiologic study in an attempt to increase the yield of ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) induction . the short-to-long protocol uses a train of eight stimuli at a short cycle length and up to two extrastimuli . the two-site protocol is similar to the standard protocol but delivers the last extrastimulus via a second spatially separated right ventricular catheter . patients were divided into two groups based on indications for study : group 1 included 45 patients with syncope , nonsustained vt , or both , and group 2 included 32 patients with a history of sustained vt , sudden cardiac death , or both . the yield of vt induction with the short-to-long protocol was less than that with the standard protocol . in none of the patients in group 1 in whom the standard protocol results were negative did the short-to-long protocol produce sustained vt . only two patients , both in group 2 , had sustained arrhythmias induced by the short-to-long protocol when the standard protocol results were negative : one had sustained vt induced and one with long qt syndrome had ventricular fibrillation ( vf ) induced with the short-to-long protocol . however , the short-to-long protocol failed to induce sustained vt in seven patients in whom the standard protocol produced sustained vt . all seven of these patients required three extrastimuli with the standard protocol for induction of vt . 
prognosis of patients with ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation and a normal electrophysiologic study . the outcome of 26 patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia ( n = 16 ) or ventricular fibrillation ( n = 10 ) and no inducible ventricular tachycardia ( less than or equal to 10 beats ) by baseline programmed stimulation was studied . coronary artery disease was present in 14 patients , dilated cardiomyopathy was seen in seven , valvular heart disease was present in two , and no apparent cardiac abnormalities were found in three . the mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 53 + / - 14 % . during the follow-up period of 24 + / - 16 months , actuarial survival rates at 1 and 2 years were 95 % and 89 % for sudden death and 95 % and 83 % for total cardiac death , respectively . no patients with a known ejection fraction greater than 30 % died suddenly during the follow-up . noninducibility by programmed stimulation in patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation is associated with a relatively preserved ventricular function . it may predict a low risk of sudden death in patients with preserved ventricular function . 
syncope of unknown origin : clinical , noninvasive , and electrophysiologic determinants of arrhythmia induction and symptom recurrence during long-term follow-up . ninety-one consecutive patients with syncope of unknown origin underwent electrophysiologic studies ( eps ) . univariate analysis identified the following variables : age , + signal-averaged ecg ( saecg ) , left ventricular ejection fraction ( lvef ) , history of myocardial infarction , coronary artery disease , left ventricular aneurysm , and history of sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia ( smvt ) on holter ; multivariate analysis identified + saecg , lvef , and history of smvt as risk factors for induction of smvt at eps . all patients were followed up for 19.0 + / - 8.3 months and 17 had recurrence of syncope . patients were divided into empiric , ep-guided , and no therapy groups . the ep-guided therapy group included all patients with smvt at eps . recurrence rates among all three groups were similar . we conclude that : ( 1 ) patients who have inducible smvt at eps can be identified using certain clinical and noninvasive variables . when these patients undergo ep-guided therapy , their rate of recurrence of syncope becomes compatible with that of patients who had no arrhythmia induced at eps . ( 2 ) empiric therapy does not offer any benefit over no therapy in reducing the rate of recurrent of scope . 
electrocardiographic and antiarrhythmic effects of intravenous amiodarone : results of a prospective , placebo-controlled study . the antiarrhythmic efficacy of intravenously administered amiodarone was examined in a prospective , randomized , placebo-controlled study that involved 77 patients after coronary artery bypass surgery . amiodarone was given after surgery in a loading bolus of 300 mg for 2 hours followed by 1200 mg every 24 hours for 2 days and 900 mg every 24 hours for the next 2 days . amiodarone suppressed both supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias within 12 hours after the start of therapy . particularly , the incidence of atrial fibrillation ( 5 % vs 21 % in the control group ; p less than 0.05 ) and of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia ( 3 % vs 16 % ; p less than 0.05 ) was reduced by amiodarone . heart rate was slowed ( p less than 0.001 ) and repolarization -- as judged by jtc interval -- was prolonged compared with the control group ( p less than 0.01 ) . in two patients , amiodarone infusion was stopped because of excessive qtc prolongation . no detrimental hemodynamic effects of the drug were observed . thus the intravenous administration of amiodarone appears to be suitable for patients in whom rapid suppression of symptomatic supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias is warranted in the presence of left ventricular dysfunction . 
electrophysiologic characteristics of manifest and latent retrograde conduction in dogs . atrioventricular ( av ) nodal reentry requires intact retrograde ventriculoatrial ( va ) conduction . the purpose of this study was to assess the contribution of various pacing and pharmacologic techniques to uncover va conduction during apparent unidirectional va block , and to evaluate the role of several biologic and electrophysiologic factors in concealment of retrograde conduction . forty healthy dogs underwent catheter-electrophysiologic studies of av and va conduction . group i ( 20 animals ) had intact va conduction . group ii ( six animals ) had va dissociation with ventricular pacing initiated during sinus rhythm , but the presence of va conduction was confirmed by isoproterenol infusion or by premature ventricular stimulation . in group iii ( 14 animals ) , the above techniques failed to uncover va conduction . eight of 14 group iii animals underwent thoracotomy and crushing or freezing of the sinoatrial ( sa ) node . ventricular pacing initiated during sinus standstill was associated with 1:1 va conduction in each experiment . va conduction time and retrograde wenckebach cycle length , both in the baseline state and during isoproterenol infusion , were significantly longer in the eight animals in group iii than in those in group i. age , gender , weight , breed , sinus cycle length , and anterograde av conduction properties were not significantly different between groups i , ii , and iii . the data suggest that ( 1 ) in normal dogs , complete unidirectional va block probably does not exist ; ( 2 ) in the presence of anterograde input to the av node , even sophisticated pacing and pharmacologic maneuvers may fail to uncover the presence of va conduction ; ( 3 ) although anterograde input is essential for concealment of va conduction , the phenomenon is more closely associated with depressed retrograde than with anterograde av nodal characteristics . 
management of multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease in patients with hypertension . hypertension intervention trials , which have involved mainly the use of diuretics and beta-blockers , have demonstrated a disappointing benefit in terms of reduction of coronary heart disease ( chd ) . rather than suggesting that elevated blood pressure and chd are not causally related , these data suggest that the antihypertensive agents used were not optimal for the management of hypertension and a review of the currently recommended therapies is needed . major risk factors for chd , which include increased blood pressure , elevated serum cholesterol levels , and smoking , are highly prevalent in the general population and appear to cluster in patients with hypertension . therefore the treatment of hypertension demands a multifactorial approach , one that takes into consideration all the risk factors for chd . diuretics and beta-blockers adversely affect the serum lipid profile , and this could negate some of the chd benefit afforded by blood pressure reduction . 
effects of doxazosin on serum lipids : a review of the clinical data and molecular basis for altered lipid metabolism . the goal of antihypertensive treatment must be not only the reduction of high blood pressure , but also the effective management of elevated cholesterol levels and other risk factors of coronary heart disease ( chd ) . in controlled clinical trials , doxazosin has been shown to have antihypertensive efficacy comparable with other classes of antihypertensive agents and to lower the levels of total cholesterol , low-density lipoprotein ( ldl ) cholesterol , and triglycerides while increasing the levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol . doxazosin appears to inhibit the development of chd on two fronts . first , doxazosin binds to the alpha 1-adrenoreceptor and inhibits the receptor-mediated responses to epinephrine and norepinephrine . second , doxazosin has direct and indirect effects on lipid metabolism by increasing ldl receptor activity , decreasing intracellular ldl synthesis , reducing the synthesis and secretion of very low-density lipoprotein cholesterol , and stimulating lipoprotein lipase activity . doxazosin may also inhibit platelet aggregation . long-term studies will determine how these actions translate into reductions in the morbidity and mortality rates of chd . first-year results from the treatment of mild hypertension study ( tomhs ) have demonstrated expected reductions in blood pressure for all antihypertensive agents studied . the lipid changes have varied with the type of antihypertensive treatment and have been favorable for doxazosin . 
preliminary results of the norwegian doxazosin postmarketing surveillance study : a twelve-week experience . the study was designed to investigate the safety and efficacy of doxazosin in the control of blood pressure in general medical practice ; the results presented concern the first 748 patients evaluated over a 12-week period . blood pressure was significantly reduced after treatment with doxazosin ( -13 / -9 mm hg ) , and heart rate was not significantly altered . in addition , doxazosin significantly reduced total cholesterol levels ( -6.7 % ) , reduced triglyceride levels ( -19.8 % ) , increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels ( +2.5 % ) , and the high-density lipoprotein : total cholesterol ratio ( +9.7 % ) . the calculated risk of coronary heart disease was reduced by 20.5 % over a 12-week period . thirty-five percent of patients reported at least one side effect , and the number of patients experiencing severe adverse reactions was small . twenty patients ( 2.7 % ) discontinued treatment because of adverse events , and 2.7 % had the dose of doxazosin reduced . 
doxazosin : a study in a cohort of patients with hypertension in general practice -- an interim report . the objective of this study was to assess the safety and efficacy of doxazosin in a substantial cohort of hypertensive patients drawn from general practice . a total of 4027 patients entered the study , 1472 of whom ( 36.6 % ) were untreated hypertensive patients . patients were not advised to change diet , smoking habit , or life-style during the study . twenty-one percent were cigarette smokers , and concurrent diabetes was present in 2.3 % . baseline blood cholesterol exceeded 200 mg/dl ( 5.2 mmol/l ) in 90 % and 250 mg/dl ( 6.5 mmol/l ) in 56 % of patients . the mean decrease in blood pressure produced by doxazosin was 22/15 mm hg after 10 weeks of therapy ; there was a mean decrease in heart rate of 1 beat/min . the mean maintenance dose for all patients was 3.1 mg/day . side effects considered related or possibly related to treatment were reported in 705 patients . treatment was discontinued in 233 patients ( 5.8 % ) because of adverse events related or possibly related to treatment with doxazosin . doxazosin produced a significant ( p less than 0.001 ) decrease in total cholesterol , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol , and triglyceride levels and a significant increase in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and the ratio of high-density lipoprotein : total cholesterol . the potential reduction in 10-year coronary heart disease risk ( according to the framingham equation ) was calculated to be 20.4 % . 
an open , noncomparative study of doxazosin in essential hypertension : experience in general practice in the netherlands . the antihypertensive efficacy , safety , and lipid effects of doxazosin , a selective alpha 1-inhibitor , were assessed in a general practice setting . three hundred twenty-six patients were entered into the study , which involved three phases : ( 1 ) a 2-week baseline period , ( 2 ) an 8-week period in which patients received 1 to 8 mg of doxazosin once daily , and ( 3 ) a 4-week maintenance period . after 12 weeks , 78.8 % of efficacy-evaluable patients were considered therapy successes ( sitting diastolic blood pressure either less than or equal to 90 mm hg with greater than or equal to 5 mm hg reduction from baseline or greater than or equal to 10 mm hg reduction from baseline ) . the mean daily dose in patients considered a therapy success was 2.8 mg . by the final visit , sitting systolic/diastolic blood pressures of these patients were reduced by 16.4 / 13.5 mm hg from a mean baseline of 170/106 mm hg . the investigators ' global assessment of efficacy of once-daily doxazosin therapy was excellent or good for 70 % of patients . of the 326 patients , 30.7 % reported a total of 160 side effects ; 78 % of the side effects were mild or moderate in severity , and 24 patients ( 7.4 % ) discontinued treatment because of adverse experiences . the investigators ' global assessment of toleration was excellent or good for 87 % of patients . doxazosin produced a significant decrease in total cholesterol ( p = 0.02 ) and triglyceride ( p less than 0.001 ) levels . from baseline to final visit there was also a highly significant reduction of 17 % ( p less than 0.001 ) in calculated risk score for coronary heart disease on the basis of the framingham heart study risk equation . 
doxazosin and atenolol as monotherapy in mild and moderate hypertension : a randomized , parallel study with a three-year follow-up . the efficacy and safety of doxazosin ( n = 83 ) and atenolol ( n = 81 ) have been compared during a 3-year period . doxazosin ( mean dose at 3 years , 5.2 mg/day ) and atenolol ( mean dose , 66.4 mg/day ) produced a sustained and overall similar reduction in blood pressure , with no evidence of tolerance . doxazosin decreased mean blood pressure from 158/104 mm hg to 146/90 mm hg ; with atenolol the decrease was from 160/103 mm hg to 144/88 mm hg . whereas the reduction in blood pressure with atenolol was paralleled by a significant ( p less than 0.05 ) decrease in heart rate ( from a mean of 74 to 60 beats/min ) , doxazosin produced no clinically meaningful changes in heart rate . in contrast to atenolol , doxazosin reduced triglyceride levels by -5.9 % ( atenolol +22.5 % ) , increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels by +3.7 % ( atenolol , -11.2 % ) , and increased the high-density lipoprotein/total cholesterol ratio by +5.9 % ( atenolol , -10.3 % ) ; all of these values were significantly ( p less than 0.001 ) different from those of atenolol-treated patients . doxazosin also reduced the calculated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels by -3.3 % ( atenolol , unchanged ) . the adverse effect of atenolol on lipid levels apparently negated any beneficial effect of blood pressure reduction , because the calculated coronary heart disease ( chd ) risk actually increased significantly . in contrast , the reduction in calculated chd risk in the doxazosin group was statistically significant at all points during the study . the safety profile of the drugs was similar . with the added potential of the reduction in the calculated risk of chd among hypertensive patients , doxazosin represents an appropriate first-line drug for the treatment of essential hypertension . 
efficacy of doxazosin in specific hypertensive patient groups . in practice , some of the major problems for the physician who treats hypertension are patients who are resistant to treatment or who have other complicating risk syndromes . therefore the overall efficacy of an antihypertensive agent must include an assessment of effect in patients with serious ancillary problems . in this article , doxazosin is reviewed for its efficacy in the treatment of severe essential hypertension and specific complications or conditions of mild or moderate essential hypertension , namely , left ventricular hypertrophy , hyperlipidemia , noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , renal insufficiency , pheochromocytoma , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , peripheral vascular disease , and smoking . doxazosin is particularly efficacious in many specific subgroups of patients with hypertension , and the results of relevant studies are discussed . 
cardiovascular disease risk profiles . this article presents prediction equations for several cardiovascular disease endpoints , which are based on measurements of several known risk factors . subjects ( n = 5573 ) were original and offspring subjects in the framingham heart study , aged 30 to 74 years , and initially free of cardiovascular disease . equations to predict risk for the following were developed : myocardial infarction , coronary heart disease ( chd ) , death from chd , stroke , cardiovascular disease , and death from cardiovascular disease . the equations demonstrated the potential importance of controlling multiple risk factors ( blood pressure , total cholesterol , high-density lipoprotein cholesterol , smoking , glucose intolerance , and left ventricular hypertrophy ) as opposed to focusing on one single risk factor . the parametric model used was seen to have several advantages over existing standard regression models . unlike logistic regression , it can provide predictions for different lengths of time , and probabilities can be expressed in a more straightforward way than the cox proportional hazards model . 
double-blind comparison of doxazosin and enalapril in patients with mild or moderate essential hypertension . the antihypertensive efficacy and safety of doxazosin and enalapril were compared in the general practice setting ( n = 54 ) . both agents produced comparable , statistically significant ( p less than 0.05 ) reductions in mean blood pressure with no clinically relevant changes in heart rate . side effects in the two groups were mild or moderate and disappeared or were tolerated with continued treatment . doxazosin , in contrast to enalapril , produced a significant ( p less than 0.05 ) reduction in the total serum cholesterol concentration , a reduction in the level of triglycerides , and a favorable increase in the high-density lipoprotein/total cholesterol ratio . the reduction in calculated coronary heart disease risk produced by doxazosin ( -27.58 % ) was highly significant ( p less than 0.0002 ) and greater than that produced by enalapril ( -18.49 % p less than 0.02 ) . 
a double-blind comparative study of doxazosin and prazosin when administered with beta-blockers or diuretics . the antihypertensive efficacy and safety of doxazosin ( once daily ) and prazosin ( twice daily ) were compared in patients with mild or moderate essential hypertension ( diastolic blood pressure [ dbp ] 95 to 114 mm hg ) not adequately controlled by diuretics and beta-blockers . doxazosin produced significantly greater mean reductions in standing ( p = 0.01 ) and supine ( p = 0.04 ) dbp than did prazosin ; there were no significant between-group differences in either mean systolic blood pressure or heart rate . the overall mean daily doses for efficacy-evaluable patients were 4.7 mg of doxazosin and 6.7 mg of prazosin . sixteen patients ( 84.2 % ) treated with doxazosin and 13 patients ( 56.5 % ) treated with prazosin were considered therapeutic successes ( decrease in standing dbp greater than or equal to 10 mm hg or to less than or equal to 90 mm hg with greater than or equal to 5 mm hg reduction from baseline ) . of the 19 efficacy-evaluable patients treated with doxazosin , 15 ( 78.9 % ) showed improvement in the severity category of hypertension ; an improvement in severity was reported in 14 patients ( 60.9 % ) treated with prazosin . doxazosin produced a more favorable effect on serum lipid levels than did prazosin , although no statistically significant within - or between-group differences were observed . most side effects experienced with either doxazosin or prazosin were mild or moderate and were tolerated or disappeared with continued treatment . the overall evaluation of toleration was excellent or good for 18 ( 90 % ) doxazosin - and 21 ( 91 % ) prazosin-treated patients . clinical efficacy was rated as excellent or good for 16 patients ( 80 % ) treated with doxazosin and 15 patients ( 68 % ) treated with prazosin . 
the addition of doxazosin to the treatment regimen of patients with hypertension not adequately controlled by beta-blockers . when doxazosin was given to patients with hypertension not adequately controlled by beta-blockade , blood pressure was normalized in 94 % of the 34 patients ( blood pressure less than or equal to 140/85 mm hg ) . this reduction in blood pressure was obtained with doxazosin in combination with metoprolol or oxprenolol at a mean final daily dose of 1.3 mg or pindolol or atenolol at 2.0 mg/day . exercise-induced increase in systolic and diastolic blood pressure was also lower with combined beta-blocker and doxazosin therapy than with beta-blocker alone . after 12 weeks of treatment , the combination of doxazosin and beta-blocker significantly reduced total serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels . all side effects were mild and only one patient was withdrawn from therapy . 
a double-blind comparative study of doxazosin and prazosin in the treatment of essential hypertension . two hundred sixty-six patients took part in a multicenter comparative study of doxazosin and prazosin . both drugs produced a significant reduction ( p less than 0.001 ) in blood pressure and no increase in heart rate . blood pressure was considered " markedly decreased " or " decreased " in 70.8 % of patients treated with doxazosin and 70.0 % of patients treated with prazosin . no statistically significant between-group differences in antihypertensive efficacy were observed . both doxazosin and prazosin were well tolerated ; seven patients ( 5.6 % ) in each group had the therapy withdrawn . 
clinical experience with doxazosin in general medical practice in new zealand . this study investigated the safety and efficacy of doxazosin treatment in a large population of patients ( n = 336 ) with essential hypertension and assessed the effect of doxazosin on the serum lipid profile and the calculated risk of developing coronary heart disease . patients were assigned to two groups : those with a baseline diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 95 mm hg ( group 1 ) and those with a baseline diastolic blood pressure less than 95 mm hg ( group 2 ) that was controlled by previous antihypertensive therapy . doxazosin treatment ( monotherapy in 76.2 % of patients ) significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) reduced the blood pressure of patients in group 1 ( -23 / -17 mm hg ) after 10 weeks and maintained the control of blood pressure for patients in group 2 . heart rate was essentially unchanged in both groups . mean final daily doses of 3.6 and 3.2 mg were achieved in groups 1 and 2 , respectively . treatment with doxazosin improved the severity category of hypertension for 88.4 % of patients in group 1 ; 87.3 % of patients were considered a therapy success . doxazosin had a favorable effect on the serum lipid profile in both groups of patients . the majority of lipid changes achieved statistical significance and resulted in a significant 27 % decrease in the calculated risk of developing coronary heart disease . doxazosin was well tolerated ; only 24.1 % of patients had side effects that were related or possibly related to treatment . in nine ( 2.7 % ) patients the dose of doxazosin was reduced and 26 ( 7.7 % ) patients withdrew from doxazosin therapy because of side effects . 
doxazosin in the treatment of essential hypertension in general medical practice in latin america . this latin american study assessed in the general practice setting the efficacy and tolerance of once-daily doxazosin in the treatment of mild or moderate essential hypertension ( sitting diastolic blood pressure , 95 to 115 mm hg ) . patients ( n = 220 ) were treated with doxazosin for 12 weeks as monotherapy or in combination with other antihypertensive agents . at the final visit , doxazosin produced a mean change in sitting systolic/diastolic blood pressure of -18.4 / -14.4 mm hg , at a mean daily dose of 4.3 mg . one hundred sixty-three ( 77.6 % ) of the 210 evaluable patients were considered a therapeutic success . lipid analyses identified a statistically significant ( p = 0.02 ) reduction in total serum cholesterol ( 4.85 % ) and an overall decrease in triglyceride levels ( 5.12 % ) . according to the framingham heart study equation , doxazosin produced a highly significant ( p less than 0.001 ) 20 % reduction in the calculated probability of developing coronary heart disease in 10 years . of the 220 patients evaluated , 54 ( 24.5 % ) reported side effects that were considered related to treatment . ten ( 4.5 % ) patients reported side effects unrelated to treatment and 37 ( 16.8 % ) reported events of unknown relationship . most side effects were mild or moderate and were tolerated or disappeared with continued treatment . nine patients ( 4.1 % ) were discontinued from therapy and in 13 ( 5.9 % ) the dose was reduced . the most prevalent side effects were headache and dizziness . the investigator 's overall assessment of antihypertensive efficacy was excellent or good for 176 patients ( 80.4 % ) ; tolerance was considered excellent or good in 193 patients ( 88.5 % ) . 
a multicenter study of doxazosin in the treatment of essential hypertension in france . this study was designed to assess the efficacy and tolerance of doxazosin in patients with mild , moderate , or severe essential hypertension in a general practice setting . ninety-six adults of a mean age of 55 1/2 years took part in the 14-week study , consisting of a placebo phase ( 2 weeks ) , a dose-adjustment phase with doxazosin ( 8 weeks ) , and a maintenance phase ( 4 weeks ) . doxazosin , at a final mean daily dose of 3.4 mg , produced a significant ( p less than 0.05 ) reduction in blood pressure at all points of measurement during the study . the mean change in sitting blood pressure at the end of treatment was -15.4 / -15.8 mm hg . of the 85 patients who could be categorized as a success or failure , 78 ( 92 % ) were considered a therapeutic success ; 78 ( 89 % ) of the 88 efficacy-evaluable patients demonstrated an improvement in the severity category of their hypertension . treatment with doxazosin produced a reduction in serum cholesterol ( -3.1 % ) and triglyceride ( -3.8 % ) levels , although these changes did not attain statistical significance . the calculated probability of developing coronary heart disease in 10 years ( according to the framingham equation ) was significantly ( p less than 0.001 ) reduced by 22 % , from 16.7 chances per 100 ( baseline ) to 14.3 chances per 100 ( final visit ) . twenty-six patients ( 27.1 % ) reported side effects that were possibly related to treatment , the most prevalent of which were vertigo ( 7.3 % ) and headache ( 6.3 % ) . in four ( 4.2 % ) patients the dose of doxazosin was reduced and two ( 2.1 % ) were withdrawn prematurely . the investigator 's assessments of tolerance was reduced and two ( 2.1 % ) were considered to be excellent or good in 85 ( 88 % ) patients . 
clinical experience with doxazosin in general medical practice in the netherlands . this study was designed to investigate the efficacy and toleration of once-daily doxazosin in the treatment of essential hypertension ( sitting diastolic blood pressure 95 to 115 mm hg ) in a general medical practice . fifty-three patients with mild or moderate essential hypertension entered a study of 14 weeks ' duration . this consisted of a baseline run-in period of 2 weeks , a dose-adjustment phase with doxazosin ( 8 weeks ) , and a maintenance phase of 4 weeks . doxazosin was initiated at 1 mg/day , and every 2 weeks the dose was doubled unless blood pressure was normalized ( sitting diastolic blood pressure less than or equal to 90 mm hg with greater than or equal to 5 mm hg reduction from baseline ) or significant side effects emerged . the maximum daily dose administered was 8 mg . doxazosin produced a significant ( p less than 0.05 ) final mean change in sitting blood pressure of -17.4 / -12.2 mm hg at a final mean daily dose of 4.1 mg . heart rate was not significantly altered . a nonsignificant decrease in total cholesterol concentration ( -2.66 % , p = 0.06 ) and triglycerides ( -8.80 % , p = 0.09 ) was also observed . the effect of doxazosin on blood pressure and serum cholesterol resulted in a significant ( p less than 0.001 ) reduction of 19 % in calculated risk of coronary heart disease . the investigators ' assessment of patient toleration of doxazosin was excellent or good in 86.8 % of patients . 
a long-term study of doxazosin in the treatment of mild or moderate essential hypertension in general medical practice . this study assessed the long-term ( 54 weeks ) antihypertensive efficacy and safety of doxazosin in the treatment of mild or moderate essential hypertension , defined as sitting and standing diastolic blood pressure of 95 to 114 mm hg . of the 153 patients who successfully completed an initial 14-week trial , 61 continued uninterrupted into a 40-week extension study . optimal antihypertensive efficacy was achieved by week 12 and maintained in all patients for the duration of 1 year . the final mean sitting blood pressure was 148/84 mm hg and was reduced from a mean baseline level of 173/102 mm hg . occasional decreases in heart rate were observed , but these were not considered to be clinically relevant ( 1 to 3 beats/min ) . the mean final dose of doxazosin for patients evaluable for efficacy was 2.4 mg/day ; 91.7 % of patients were taking less than or equal to 4 mg/day . no increase in daily maintenance dose was observed from the initial phase to the long-term extension study . after 1 year of treatment , 93.3 % of patients were considered a therapeutic success ( sitting diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 10 mm hg reduction from baseline or less than or equal to 90 mm hg with greater than or equal to 5 mm hg reduction ) . in no patients was there a worsening in the severity category of the hypertension . total serum cholesterol concentrations were reduced significantly ( 6.6 % p = 0.03 ) at the end of week 14 . reductions in total serum cholesterol levels persisted throughout the extension study , with a final reduction of 5.4 % . 
doxazosin in the treatment of mild or moderate essential hypertension : an echocardiographic study . sixteen patients with mild or moderate essential hypertension received 1 to 8 mg/day of doxazosin ( mean daily dose , 2.7 mg ) . blood pressure reduction ( supine and standing ) was highly significant ( p less than 0.001 ) , and no significant changes in heart rate were observed . a significant reduction ( p less than 0.01 ) in left ventricular mass was seen without a change in left ventricular systolic function . all side effects were mild , and only one patient withdrew from the study . 
echocardiographic assessment of doxazosin on left ventricular mass in patients with essential hypertension . a single daily dose of doxazosin taken during a 12-week period produced a significant reduction in blood pressure and left ventricular mass index in patients with mild or moderate hypertension . the systolic shortening coefficient was also increased and a trend in the improvement of ejection fraction , rate of circumferential fiber shortening , systolic contraction time , and preejective/ejective ratio was observed . no change in heart rate was recorded and no patients had side effects . the serum lipid profile was modified favorably , particularly with regard to the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol/high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio . by producing a reduction in blood pressure and left ventricular mass while favorably modifying the serum lipid profile , doxazosin produced a beneficial change in the overall coronary heart disease risk profile . 
efficacy and safety of doxazosin in the treatment of patients with mild or moderate essential hypertension and elevated levels of cholesterol . in hypertensive patients , elevated serum cholesterol is a frequent and sinister additional coronary risk factor . selective alpha 1-adrenoreceptor inhibitors appear to have the unique ability to control both risk factors . forty-two patients , ages 42 to 65 years , including 21 men with sustained hypertension and elevated serum cholesterol levels , were included in a trial of monotherapy with doxazosin administered once daily ( range , 1 to 16 mg ) . the influence of the drug on high blood pressure and elevated serum cholesterol was evaluated over a 28-week period , which consisted of a 4-week , single-blind placebo lead-in period , an open 10-week dose-adjustment period , and finally a 14-week maintenance period . of the 39 efficacy-evaluable patients , 25 ( 64 % ) achieved adequate blood pressure control ( diastolic blood pressure less than 90 mm hg or a decrease in diastolic blood pressure greater than 10 mm hg ) at a mean daily dose of 2 mg of doxazosin . no persistent changes occurred in heart rate . in the 32 patients with evaluable lipid data , there were nonsignificant trends to an increase in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and a reduction in total cholesterol , together with a significant reduction in serum triglyceride concentration . the combined changes in blood pressure and blood lipid levels resulted in a reduction of 36 % in the calculated risk of coronary heart disease . eleven patients reported side effects and four were withdrawn from therapy . these results confirm the antihypertensive and anticholesterolemic efficacy of once-daily treatment with doxazosin . 
a multicenter study of doxazosin in the treatment of patients with mild or moderate essential hypertension and concomitant intermittent claudication . this study assessed the efficacy and safety of once-daily doxazosin in the treatment of patients ( n = 19 ) with mild or moderate essential hypertension ( sitting diastolic blood pressure [ dbp ] 95 to 114 mm hg ) and concomitant intermittent claudication ( doppler ankle/arm ratio of less than 0.80 and walking tolerance of less than 700 m on the treadmill ) . after 14 weeks of treatment with doxazosin , a significant ( p less than 0.05 ) reduction in systolic blood pressure and dbp was observed . mean blood pressures were reduced from 170/100 mm hg at baseline to 161/93 mm hg at the end of treatment . minor changes in heart rate occurred , which with continued treatment were not statistically significant from baseline . in 12 of 16 ( 75.0 % ) efficacy-evaluable patients blood pressure was normalized ( dbp to less than or equal to 90 mm hg with an greater than or equal to 5 mm hg reduction from baseline ) with a mean daily dose of 7.6 mg/day . doxazosin improved the hypertension severity category in 13 of 16 ( 81.3 % ) patients . the blood pressure ratios between both the thighs and arms and ankles and arms showed no statistically significant changes after treatment with doxazosin . thigh blood flow at rest and the reactive hyperemia after 3 minutes of arterial occlusion did not change statistically . there was a tendency for pain-free distance to improve . laboratory data were not significantly changed after treatment with doxazosin . of the 19 patients studied , 5 reported mild or moderate side effects that were either tolerated or disappeared with continued treatment . no patient had therapy withdrawn and no patient required a dose reduction . 
doxazosin for the treatment of chronic congestive heart failure : results of a randomized double-blind and placebo-controlled study . in this study we evaluated the effects of once-daily administration of oral doxazosin in patients with chronic congestive heart failure ( chf ) . after a stabilization period of at least 2 weeks with digitalis and diuretics , 73 patients with chronic chf were randomized to receive additionally either doxazosin or placebo in double-blind fashion . patients underwent weekly dose adjustments with increasing doses of doxazosin ( 1 , 2 , 4 , 8 , and 16 mg daily ) or placebo for 5 weeks , and 67 were evaluated for 12 additional weeks on maximally tolerated doses of blinded study drugs . treatment groups were evaluated with respect to symptoms of heart failure , indexes of quality of life and left ventricular function , frequency and type of arrhythmia , adverse events , and mortality rates . doxazosin ( 11.9 + / - 0.9 mg ) given once daily produced a favorable trend in the investigators ' and patients ' assessments of symptomatic change . doxazosin was associated with a significantly higher level of voluntary submaximal exercise and a favorable trend on left ventricular ejection fraction ( increase of 9.8 % of the baseline value vs 2.7 % with placebo ; p = ns ) . during the 3-month steady-dosing period , patients treated with doxazosin had a significant ( p less than 0.004 ) reduction in ventricular arrhythmias and significantly fewer morbid and mortal cardiac events ( including episodes of worsening heart failure severe enough to prompt discontinuation of the study , myocardial infarction , and death ) . doxazosin was well tolerated , producing no major side effects and only a slightly higher frequency of minor treatment-related side effects compared with placebo ( p = ns ) . 
the effect of doxazosin on platelet aggregation in normotensive subjects and patients with hypertension : an in vitro study . an in vitro assay was used to investigate the effects of doxazosin on the platelet aggregation induced by epinephrine , collagen , and adenosine diphosphate . platelet-rich plasma from normotensive subjects and patients with hypertension was compared . doxazosin produced a concentration-dependent inhibition of platelet aggregation in both groups , but significantly lower concentrations were required to inhibit platelet aggregation in plasma taken from patients with hypertension . the concentrations of doxazosin that inhibited platelet aggregation in vitro were similar to those that are used clinically to control blood pressure in patients with hypertension . 
evidence of an antiplatelet aggregation action of doxazosin in patients with hypertension : an ex vivo study . eighteen patients with a mean age of 54.7 years were included in the study . all patients had a diagnosis of mild or moderate essential hypertension ( sitting diastolic blood pressure of 96 to 114 mm hg ) . the study design was single blind and in two phases : phase i , placebo ( 4 weeks ) , and phase ii , the active treatment ( 8 weeks ) with increasing doses , if needed , of doxazosin every 2 weeks ( 1 , 2 , 4 , and 8 mg/day ) . results show that doxazosin has an antihypertensive effect that is dose dependent . systolic , diastolic , and mean blood pressures were decreased significantly , and no effect on heart rate was observed . doxazosin significantly inhibited the platelet aggregation induced by epinephrine , adenosine diphosphate , and collagen in a dose-dependent manner . in addition , treatment with doxazosin lowered total serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels , without changing other standard biochemical parameters . this indicates that doxazosin could offer a distinct therapeutic advantage in the modulation of atherogenic and thromboembolic factors associated with coronary heart disease . 
vitamin e in gastric mucosal injury induced by ischemia-reperfusion . to clarify the relationship among vitamin e , oxygen radicals , and lipid peroxidation in ischemia-reperfusion , we produced an experimental model of gastric mucosal injury in rats by ischemia-reperfusion with clamping of the celiac artery and measurements of the area of gastric erosion , thiobarbituric acid ( tba ) - reactive substances , and alpha-tocopherol in serum and gastric mucosa during ischemia-reperfusion . the area of gastric erosions and tba-reactive substances in gastric mucosa were significantly increased after 30 and 60 min of reperfusion . the serum alpha-tocopherol-cholesterol ratio and gastric mucosal alpha-tocopherol were significantly decreased after 30 and 60 min of reperfusion . on the other hand , in vitamin e-deficient rats , gastric mucosal injury induced by ischemia-reperfusion was more severe than that in vitamin e-nondeficient rats . these results indicate that vitamin e is consumed in the process of lipid peroxidation induced by oxygen radicals in ischemia-reperfusion to prevent the development of tissue damage . 
role of oxygen free radicals in ischemic and reperfused myocardium . in recent years there has been considerable interest concerning the role of oxygen radicals in myocardial ischemia and reperfusion injury . the sequential univalent reduction of oxygen gives rise to very reactive intermediate products . normally , the tissue concentration of these intermediate products of oxygen is limited and the aerobic myocardium survives because of the existence of a delicate balance between the generation of the various oxidants and the maintenance of the antioxidant defense mechanism . several possible sources have been identified for the production of active oxygen species after ischemia and reperfusion and these sources may be mutually interactive . the ability of scavengers of oxygen free radicals , including vitamin e , to improve mechanical , mitochondrial , and sarcoplasmic reticulum function in animal models of ischemic-reperfusion injury also suggests that oxygen free radicals are partly responsible for myocardial damage in these models , although caution in the interpretation of these data is necessary . 
vitamin c and cardiovascular risk factors . the concept that ascorbic acid ( vitamin c ) supplementation protects against coronary heart disease developed in the late 1970s when vitamin c intakes in industrialized nations were lower than at present . supplementation was then shown to lower plasma total cholesterol and , among some elderly men , to raise high-density lipoprotein cholesterol . however , among people in initially good vitamin c nutriture , these effects are usually not seen . in five populations of essentially healthy people , blood pressure has been found to correlate negatively with vitamin c status . recently , in a placebo-controlled , double-blinded study , extra ascorbic acid for 6 wk was observed to lower systolic and pulse pressure in a small group of borderline hypertensive subjects . 
inverse correlation between plasma vitamin e and mortality from ischemic heart disease in cross-cultural epidemiology . essential antioxidants were determined in plasma of middle-aged men representing 16 european study populations , which differed sixfold in age-specific mortality from ischemic heart disease ( ihd ) . in 12 populations with " common " plasma cholesterol ( 5.7-6 .2 mmol/l ) and blood pressure , both classical risk factors lacked significant correlations to ihd mortality , whereas absolute levels of vitamin e ( alpha-tocopherol ) showed a strong inverse correlation ( r2 = 0.63 , p = 0.002 ) . evaluating all populations , cholesterol and diastolic blood pressure were moderately associated , but their correlation was inferior to that of vitamin e. in stepwise regression and multiple regression analysis , mortality was predictable to 62 % by lipid-standardized vitamin e , to 79 % by vitamin e and cholesterol , to 83 % after inclusion of lipid-standardized vitamin a ( retinol ) , and to 87 % by all the above parameters plus blood pressure . thus , in the present study the cross-cultural differences of idh mortality are primarily attributable to plasma status of vitamin e , which might have protective functions . 
follow-up of patients who underwent arterial switch repair for transposition of the great arteries thirty infants underwent arterial switch for transposition of the great arteries within the first week of life ( mean age , 2.8 days ) . an additional three patients underwent repair at 5 1/2 , 8 , and 9 1/2 months of age . six ( 18.2 % ) of 33 patients died . all the survivors were not receiving cardiac medications or diuretics at the time of the last follow-up visit . examination of 24 of 27 survivors at 1 to 5 years of age revealed normal growth in 75 % of the patients . two patients had height , weight , and head circumference below the fifth percentile for age . four patients had height and weight appropriate for age but head circumference below the fifth percentile . neurodevelopmental testing yielded normal findings in 18 patients . three patients were considered suspect and an additional three were abnormal neurodevelopmentally . head circumference less than the fifth percentile , abnormalities on computed tomographic scans of the brain , and emergency balloon atrial septostomy or emergency switch operation were more likely to occur in patients who had low neurodevelopmental scores . we conclude that the majority of patients who undergo arterial switch repair demonstrate normal growth and development and no impairment of cardiovascular function . however , significant morbidity in the form of neurodevelopmental problems may occur . 
family history fails to identify many children with severe hypercholesterolemia . optimal strategies for identifying children with hypercholesterolemia have not been established . several groups have advocated that testing of serum cholesterol levels be limited to those children who have family histories of hyperlipidemia or premature coronary heart disease . we studied the ability of comprehensive family histories to identify children with hyperlipidemia in a group of 114 children ( mean age , 8 + / - 4 years ) who were referred for treatment of hypercholesterolemia . a positive family history was defined according to guidelines of the american academy of pediatrics . the mean fasting total cholesterol in the children was 5.74 + / - 1.42 mmol/l ( 222 mg/dl ) . family history was negative for hypercholesterolemia or premature coronary heart disease in 22 ( 22 % ) of 100 children with total cholesterol levels greater than the 75th percentile for their ages , in 13 ( 18.3 % ) of 71 children with total cholesterol levels greater than the 95th percentile for their ages , and in four ( 11.8 % ) of 34 children with presumed heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia . of the 78 children who had both hypercholesterolemia and positive family histories , hyperlipidemia was reported in 72 families , whereas premature heart disease was reported in only 27 . we conclude that in a population of children referred because of known hypercholesterolemia , a detailed family history not only fails to identify many children with mild hypercholesterolemia , but also fails to identify a significant proportion of children with markedly elevated cholesterol levels . additionally , in families of children with hypercholesterolemia , a history of hyperlipidemia is more common than a history of premature heart disease . 
marfanoid children . etiologic heterogeneity and cardiac findings . the clinical , cardiac , and echocardiographic test results of 20 children with marfanoid features are reviewed . fifteen were diagnosed as having marfan syndrome , two had " possible " marfan syndrome , and three had other diagnoses . on first evaluation , eight patients with marfan syndrome ( 53 % ) had mitral regurgitation and none had aortic regurgitation . echocardiography showed aortic root enlargement in 12 ( 80 % ) of 15 patients and mitral valve prolapse in 12 ( 80 % ) of 15 . none had a normal echocardiogram . at follow-up examination , one patient had developed aortic root enlargement , and one patient , mitral valve prolapse . thus , although aortic root enlargement is usually present in early childhood in patients with marfan syndrome , it is not considered specific because in this study it also occurred in one child with alport 's syndrome and in one with marfanoid features . four patients with aortic root enlargement were treated with propranolol and their echocardiograms showed no further increase in the aortic root diameter for several years . we recommend echocardiography in the diagnosis and routine management of children in whom marfan syndrome is suspected . 
on the inheritance of abdominal aortic aneurysm . to determine the mode of inheritance of abdominal aortic aneurysm , data on first-degree relatives of 91 probands were collected . results of segregation analysis performed on these data are reported . many models , including nongenetic and genetic models , were compared using likelihood methods . the nongenetic model was rejected ; statistically significant evidence in favor of a genetic model was found . among the many genetic models compared , the most parsimonious genetic model was that susceptibility to abdominal aortic aneurysm is determined by a recessive gene at an autosomal diallelic major locus . a multifactorial component in addition to the major locus does not increase the likelihood of the data significantly . 
the hyperlipidemia of the nephrotic syndrome . lipid abnormalities in patients with the nephrotic syndrome have long been recognized . however , the significance of these lipid abnormalities , the mechanisms producing them , and their potential treatment have all been a cause of debate . recent data have helped clarify each of these areas of controversy . studies of the lipoprotein abnormalities of patients with the uncomplicated nephrotic syndrome have shown that many will have elevated levels of total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol , whereas only a few will have elevated levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol . if these lipid abnormalities have the same significance in this population as in other populations studied , then some patients with unremitting nephrotic syndrome will be at high risk for cardiovascular disease . the elevated cholesterol levels noted in the nephrotic syndrome are caused primarily by enhanced hepatic synthesis , with lesser contributions by decreased clearance and altered enzyme activities . the signal for enhanced hepatic lipogenesis may relate to changes in plasma albumin concentration , plasma oncotic pressure , a local effect of viscosity at the hepatic sinusoidal level , or a loss of urinary proteins or other liporegulatory substances . recently , a number of short-term studies in nephrotic patients have documented the safety and efficacy of lipid-lowering drugs such as the bile acid-binding resins , probucol , and the hmgcoa ( hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme a ) reductase inhibitors . 
extracorporeal ldl cholesterol removal : role of ldl-pheresis in combination with other hypolipidemic therapy to regress vascular disease . the direct relationship between hypercholesterolemia and atherosclerosis has resulted in formal cholesterol-lowering recommendations for patients at increased risk . the incomplete response to therapy of some forms of hypercholesterolemia as well as not uncommon drug intolerance prompted the development of extracorporeal techniques to reduce serum cholesterol levels . nonhuman primate data and an analysis of human cholesterol epidemiology and reduction trials were used to establish guidelines that would maximize the likelihood of stabilizing or regressing established coronary artery atherosclerosis . these goals are a total cholesterol ( tc ) level of less than or equal to 150 mg/dl ( 3.9 mmol/l ) and a ratio of tc to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( hdl ) of less than 2.8 . selective , extracorporeal removal of ldl cholesterol ( ldl-pheresis ) was combined with diet and hypolipidemic drugs in a pilot study at the rogosin institute to achieve these lipid end-points . technical aspects of ldl-pheresis , the background rationale for its use as part of a combined hypolipidemic therapy , the initial experience at the rogosin institute , and plans for future studies and applications are presented . 
chronic therapy for congestive heart failure with benazepril hcl , a new angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor . benazepril hcl is an orally effective angiotensin converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitor previously shown to have significant acute hemodynamic benefits in patients with congestive heart failure . in this study , 21 patients with new york heart association class iii or iv congestive heart failure were treated with 2 to 15 mg of benazepril hcl as a single daily oral dose for 28 days to determine the clinical and hemodynamic value of chronic therapy . each patient underwent clinical evaluation during the 28-day period , as well as invasive hemodynamic studies on the first two and last two days of the trial . plasma ace activity and aldosterone levels fell significantly and renin levels rose after therapy . benazepril hcl produced significant ( p less than 0.01 ) reductions in arterial pressure and systemic vascular resistance , with corresponding increases in cardiac output and decreases in pulmonary artery wedge pressure . responses after 28 days of therapy were equivalent to those after the initial doses . clinical effects included reduced rest , exertional and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , as well as reduced peripheral edema . only one patient developed symptomatic orthostatic hypotension . thus , benazepril hcl , given once daily , is an effective and well tolerated oral agent for the chronic treatment of advanced congestive heart failure . 
renal disease in noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . diabetic nephropathy now accounts for approximately one-third of all patients who develop end-stage renal disease . the estimated cost to supply renal replacement therapy for this population now exceeds $ 750 million . the relatively recent realization that half of these individuals suffer from noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus has sparked increased interest in attempts to understand the pathologic processes involved and how they may be similar or different from those alterations seen in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . basic and clinical investigation continues in an attempt to solve the puzzle of pathogenesis , as well as answer questions about the clinical usefulness of microalbuminuria and the appropriate management of hypertension in this population . 
effects of acute alcohol intake on tolerance to hypotension . the specific aim of this research was to test the hypothesis that intoxication with alcohol results in poor tolerance to hemorrhage . this was evaluated on the basis of blood pressure , cardiac output respiratory rate , blood flow to organs , and survival for 4 hr after hemorrhage . four groups of six swine per group were used ( control , intoxicated , hemorrhage , and intoxicated-hemorrhage ) . the results revealed that blood alcohol concentrations near 0.1 % greatly reduced tolerance to hemorrhage . intoxicated animals subjected to hemorrhage were unable to maintain an adequate cardiac output , blood pressure , or respiratory rate to sustain life . pigs tolerated higher blood alcohol concentrations , up to 0.35 % , when not exposed to hemorrhage . also , unintoxicated pigs were able to compensate for severe hemorrhage . only one of the six pigs in the intoxicated-hemorrhage group survived for 4 hr after hemorrhage . in conclusion the body 's ability to compensate and recover from hemorrhage was greatly reduced during intoxication . it is logical to assume that the ability to overcome numerous other stressors may also be reduced during intoxication . 
cardiorespiratory effects of antagonism of diazepam sedation with flumazenil in patients with cardiac disease . the specific benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil is currently under intense study . despite much clinical experience , no detailed invasive hemodynamic studies of its use in cardiac patients have been published . in the present study , hemodynamic and respiratory variables were measured in 10 cardiac patients undergoing catheterization of the right and left sides of the heart , before and after sedation with intravenous diazepam , and after reversal of sedation with flumazenil . a sleep dose of diazepam ( 12.2 + / - 5.1 mg , mean + / - sd ) caused only slight decreases in mean arterial pressure ( 103 + / - 12 to 98 + / - 14 mm hg ; p less than 0.05 ) , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure ( 13.2 + / - 6.3 to 11.7 + / - 6.6 mm hg ; p less than 0.05 ) , and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure ( 20.8 + / - 7.5 to 17.3 + / - 10.0 mm hg ; p less than 0.05 ) , with no significant changes in respiratory gas homeostasis . intravenous flumazenil ( 0.22 + / - 0.07 mg ) resulted in spontaneous awakening and return to full orientation , yet caused no significant alteration in either hemodynamic or respiratory variables measured . reversal of diazepam-induced sedation by flumazenil in cardiac patients appears safe and effective . 
multiple orbital tumors were cavernous hemangiomas . two distinct masses in the left orbit were incidentally found in a 48-year-old woman during a computed tomographic scan done to evaluate neurologic complaints . initial diagnostic considerations focused on a lymphoproliferative disorder or other systemic disease . orbitotomy revealed two discrete tumors , both cavernous hemangiomas . although uncommon , cavernous hemangioma should be considered in the differential diagnosis of the patient with multiple orbital lesions . 
liver transplantation in children . although liver transplantation is now accepted as the ideal therapy for end-stage liver disease , relatively few centers have gained a large experience in children , and good results have been elusive . technical difficulty and a high incidence of graft failure are among the obstacles to success . at the university of california at los angeles , 39 % of our liver transplants are in the patients who are younger than 18 years . we have analyzed our experience with 103 patients to emphasize factors important to a favorable outcome with the procedure . one hundred twenty-three transplants were performed in 103 children ( mean age , 5.2 years ; 48 % younger than 3 years ) . no reduced-size grafts were used . scrupulous attention to technical details of the vascular reconstruction , including frequent use of the supraceliac aorta of the recipient and interrupted suture techniques , ensured construction of sound hepatic artery and portal vein anastomoses at the first operation . preoperative exchange transfusions were used if the prothrombin time was prolonged beyond 7 seconds , resulting in an average blood loss of only 3.3 volumes . cyclosporine dosage was maintained in the high therapeutic range for the first 4 weeks , and anti-t-cell antibody ( okt3 ) was used for rejection ( 38 % ) . amphotericin prophylaxis was used for biliary atresia patients with multiple previous operations . eighty-two of one hundred three patients ( 80 % ) are alive . there were no intraoperative deaths . actuarial survival rates at 6 months , 1 year , and 5 years are 80 % , 79 % , and 77 % , respectively . survival of patients who underwent transplantation at age less than 1 year is 65 % versus 85 % at age more than 1 year ( p = 0.08 ) . retransplantation was performed in 19 patients ( 18 % ) , with a survival rate of 58 % . hepatic artery thrombosis , the most frequent technical complication , occurred in only 16 patients ( 13 % ) . survival rates of abo identical-match versus nonidentical-match grafts were 96 % and 60 % , respectively ( p = 0.02 ) . graft survival was only 47 % if more than one steroid cycle was needed , compared to 75 % survival with okt3 treatment . despite impairment of renal function ( glomerular filtration rate [ gfr ] less than 80 cc/kg/min ) in 54 % of patients and hypertension requiring therapy in 27 % , 90 % of the children demonstrated enhancement of growth , development , and functional status . the following conclusions were made . ( 1 ) pediatric liver transplantation is the treatment of choice for all types of end-stage liver disease and should be considered early . ( 2 ) factors that enhance survival include technical precision , aggressive retransplantation , antifungal chemoprophylaxis and therapy , and judicious immunosuppression with use of okt3 for rejection . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
triiodothyronine in the recovery of stunned myocardium in dogs two groups of dogs were subjected to a 15-minute period of regional myocardial ischemia by snaring the left anterior descending coronary artery proximal to its first diagonal branch . after release of the snare , the dogs were given either placebo ( group 1 : n = 7 ) or triiodothyronine ( t3 ) therapy ( group 2 : n = 6 ) . the dose of t3 given was 0.2 microgram/kg at 30-minute intervals to a total of six doses . plasma free t3 level fell significantly during the ischemic period in both groups and continued to fall after reperfusion in group 1 . in both groups , cardiac function deteriorated significantly during the period of ischemia and rapidly returned to control level after reperfusion . after 90 minutes of reperfusion , however , deterioration of left ventricular function was observed in group 1 and was significantly worse than in group 2 , in which hemodynamic function was maintained and , in fact , improved to levels superior to control . it is suggested that t3 therapy may be worthy of trial in patients in whom reperfusion of the myocardium takes place after a relatively short ischemic period ( the " stunned myocardium " ) . 
coronary bypass grafting with totally calcified or acutely dissected ascending aorta . from august 1984 through november 1988 , 10 of 2,658 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting had ascending aortic disease that was not amenable to proximal anastomoses for coronary bypass grafting . this was due to a calcified aorta in 6 and acute aortic dissection in 4 . there were 5 male and 5 female patients with a mean age of 71 years . cannulation site was the femoral artery in 5 , ascending aorta in 3 , and aortic arch in 2 . profound hypothermia and ventricular fibrillation , with no cross-clamp or cardioplegia , was used in 9 patients , and circulatory arrest in 1 . in 8 patients a single internal mammary artery was used as the total inflow with a saphenous vein graft brought off the internal mammary artery to one or more distal left-sided coronary vessels . bilateral internal mammary arteries were used in 2 other patients . operative mortality was zero . there was one perioperative myocardial infarction and one transient stroke without sequelae . all patients have done well from 1 to 6 years postoperatively . these data support the use of internal mammary arteries as single or bilateral proximal conduits for other venoarterial bypass grafts when the aorta is extensively diseased either by calcification or dissection . 
penetrating trauma involving the innominate artery . penetrating trauma involving the innominate artery is uncommon . few surgeons have experience with this injury . a successfully managed case of penetrating innominate artery trauma is summarized and the literature reviewed . 
tricuspid valve papillary fibroelastoma : echocardiographic characterization . we report a tricuspid valve papillary fibroelastoma initially detected by transthoracic two-dimensional echocardiography and subsequently characterized by transesophageal two-dimensional echocardiography . the mass was excised during open heart operation , and the diagnosis was verified grossly and histopathologically . transesophageal echocardiography usually provides images far superior to those from transthoracic echocardiography and may be a useful adjunct for intraoperative localization of intracardiac tumors for excision . 
surgical repair of wolff-parkinson-white syndrome complicated with myocardial bridging . myocardial bridging causes myocardial ischemia during supraventricular tachycardia . we present a case of wolff-parkinson-white syndrome combined with myocardial bridging . the patient complained of angina pectoris during paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia because of severe constriction of the left anterior descending coronary artery during systole . a myocardial scintigram revealed myocardial ischemia in the anteroseptal wall during paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia . myotomy to prevent myocardial bridging and interruption of the accessory conduction pathway was successfully accomplished in a one-stage operation . 
arterial switch procedure in an adult . the arterial switch procedure has been shown to offer both anatomic and physiologic correction in infants and children with transposition of the great arteries and ventricular septal defect . we believe that adults may also benefit in some circumstances , as evidenced by the case of a 22-year-old man who underwent successful operation after having initially undergone pulmonary artery banding for transposition with ventricular septal defect in 1967 when he was 5 months of age . 
ascites after rupture of dissecting aortic aneurysm into the right atrium . we report successful repair of an aneurysmal aorta-right atrial fistula causing intractable ascites . the clamped " ascending aorta " was drained for mixed return after perfusion through the femoral vessels and opened during hypothermic arrest . return cannulation through the fistula permitted definitive repair . 
left ventricular aneurysm secondary to behcet 's disease . a 16-year-old boy with behcet 's disease who was seen with thrombophlebitis of the leg was found to have coronary artery occlusion with postinfarction left ventricular aneurysm . recurrent femoral artery aneurysms and orogenital ulceration developed in him . the diagnostic features together with successful treatment of this patient and a discussion of behcet 's syndrome are presented . 
alternative technique for repair of sinus venosus atrial septal defect . a technique is described for closure of a sinus venosus atrial septal defect using a single patch held in place by sutures placed from outside the right atrium and underneath the superior vena cava . the superior vena cava does not require enlargement and potential damage to the artery to the sinoatrial node is avoided . 
valve replacement in patients with endocarditis and cerebral septic emboli . cerebral septic emboli complicate the cases in 20 % to 40 % of patients with left-sided endocarditis but the management of these patients who require a valvar operation remains unclear . from 1980 to 1988 , the incidence of cerebral septic embolus was 42 % ( n = 45 ) among 106 patients with endocarditis who underwent valve replacement at the university of illinois hospital in chicago . of these 45 patients , 69 % ( n = 31 ) had symptomatic cerebral septic infarctions and 31 % ( n = 14 ) were asymptomatic . findings on cerebral computed tomographic scans included ischemic infarcts ( n = 36 , 80 % ) , hemorrhagic infarcts ( n = 5 , 11 % ) , normal studies ( n = 2 , 4 % ) , and unknown ( n = 2 , 4 % ) . neurological complications after valve replacement included postoperative strokes ( n = 6 , 6 % ) , cerebral abscesses ( n = 2 , 2 % ) , and seizure ( n = 1 , 1 % ) . the presence of a hemorrhagic infarct preoperatively predisposed to a perioperative stroke ( p less than 0.05 ) . in conclusion , cerebral septic infarctions , both symptomatic and asymptomatic , are common among patients with endocarditis referred for valvar operation . in the absence of a hemorrhagic infarct , valve replacement can be performed with minimal risk of a perioperative stroke . 
comparison of supraannular and subannular pledgeted sutures in mitral valve replacement ten fresh canine hearts were used to compare the peak left ventricular pressure required to disrupt prosthetic mitral valves sutured in place with horizontal mattress sutures with either subannular or supraannular pledgets . each group consisted of 5 animals . a 29-mm medtronic mitral valve was secured in the mitral position with ten pledgeted sutures . the aorta was cannulated and normal saline solution was infused into the left ventricle until valvar disruption occurred . the peak pressure and the location and mechanism of disruption were then noted . at the peak left ventricular pressure required for valvar disruption , no individual sutures were broken . instead , in all specimens a subannular myocardial rupture occurred in the posterior portion of the mitral annulus along the extent of the atrioventricular groove . in addition , the posterior wall of the left atrium dissected upward subsequently . significantly greater pressures were required in the group with subannular suture placement as compared with the supraannular group ( 354 + / - 37 versus 236 + / - 33 mm hg ; p less than 0.0007 ) . these data suggest that placement of horizontal mattress sutures with pledgets in the subannular position is superior to the currently recommended method of supraannular suture placement in mechanical valves . 
right pulmonary artery obstruction after pulmonary artery banding . serial assessment of pulmonary artery flow by doppler echocardiography was carried out in 15 infants after pulmonary artery banding . three infants were identified as having branch pulmonary artery obstruction based on diastolic pulmonary artery flow . it is concluded that this flow profile may be specific for branch pulmonary artery obstruction after pulmonary artery banding . 
amiodarone versus bretylium for suppression of reperfusion arrhythmias in dogs . reperfusion arrhythmias are an important complication of interventions to limit infarct size . recently , amiodarone has been shown to be rapidly effective in suppressing sustained , incessant ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation in this setting . this study evaluated the time course of arrhythmia suppression and comparative efficacy of amiodarone versus bretylium in a canine model of reperfusion arrhythmias . of 23 dogs subjected to a harris two-stage coronary artery ligation followed by release , 18 demonstrated clinically significant ventricular arrhythmias and received either intravenous amiodarone , 5 mg/kg ( 9 dogs ) , or intravenous bretylium , 5 mg/kg ( 9 dogs ) . direct-current shocks for sustained ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation were administered as necessary . amiodarone rapidly suppressed sustained ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation in this model with no dog in the amiodarone-treated group requiring cardioversion after completion of the 15-minute infusion versus 4 of 9 dogs in the bretylium-treated group ( p less than 0.05 ) . amiodarone was more effective than bretylium in suppressing episodes of sustained ventricular tachycardia/ventricular fibrillation , episodes of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia , and premature ventricular complexes . the blood pressure and heart rate decreased more after amiodarone administration than after bretylium administration . we conclude that , in the canine reperfusion arrhythmia model , amiodarone is rapidly effective in suppressing ventricular arrhythmias and is more effective than bretylium . 
does cholesterol screening result in negative labeling effects ? results of the massachusetts model systems for blood cholesterol screening project . several previous studies that looked at the effects of labeling individuals as hypertensive found increases in psychosocial distress , diminished feelings of well-being , or absenteeism . other studies found no such effects . thus far , similar studies relating to labeling for high blood cholesterol levels have not been published . the massachusetts model systems for blood cholesterol screening project investigated whether labeling effects occurred as a result of the community-based screening , education , and referral programs it conducted in worcester and lowell . nine questions concerning perceptions of physical and psychological well-being were asked on a questionnaire given to screening participants . the same questions were asked as part of a follow-up questionnaire given to all individuals identified as having high blood cholesterol levels at one of the screenings . comparison of the baseline and follow-up results did not demonstrate significant overall negative effects among any age , sex , racial , income , or educational groups . on the contrary , responses to many of the questions revealed small but statistically significant improvements in perceptions of physical and psychological well-being . the absence of negative labeling effects may be attributable to the positive , supportive approach to participant counseling taken by the project . 
acute rheumatic fever in west virginia . not just a disease of children . rheumatic fever is a poststreptococcal disease that is receiving renewed attention by the medical community . we describe a recent increase in the number of observed cases of acute rheumatic fever ( arf ) in west virginia . this is the fifth report of a recent increase in the incidence of arf in the ohio valley area in the last 4 years . in contrast to the other reports , nearly two thirds of our cases of arf were in adults , more than half of whom had suffered previous bouts of arf . in these adults with recurrences , none was taking prophylactic penicillin at the time of presentation . carditis was present in seven adults , two without a history of carditis . arthritis was present in all adult patients . these data indicate a possible geographic phenomenon related to the increased number of observed cases of arf and document that arf is not simply a disease of childhood . furthermore , our findings highlight the need for extended penicillin prophylaxis for secondary prevention of arf , especially for those with an increased risk of acquiring a streptococcal upper respiratory tract infection . 
weight gain at the time of menopause . we studied prospectively the weight change and the effect of weight change on changes in coronary heart disease risk factors in a population-based sample of 485 middle-aged women . all women were studied first in 1983 to 1984 , when they were premenopausal and aged 42 to 50 years , and then restudied in 1987 . women gained an average of 2.25 + / - 4.19 kg during this 3-year period ; 20 % of women gained 4.5 kg or more , and only 3 % lost 4.5 kg or more . there were no significant differences in weight gain of women who remained premenopausal and those who had a natural menopause ( +2.07 kg vs +1.35 kg ) . weight gain was significantly associated with increases in blood pressure and levels of total cholesterol , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol , triglycerides , and fasting insulin . weight gain is thus a common occurrence for women at the time of menopause and is related to the changes in coronary heart disease risk factors observed during this period . efforts to lose weight or to prevent weight gain may help to mitigate the worsening in coronary heart disease risk factors in middle-aged women . 
orthostatic hypotension after spinal cord injury : treatment with fludrocortisone and ergotamine . we report a case of a 28-year-old woman with c5 quadriplegia , unresponsive to conservative treatment for orthostatic hypotension . ergotamine , daily combined with fludrocortisone , successfully prevented symptomatic hypotension . in this report , neural , renal , and hormonal blood pressure regulatory mechanisms are described . experiences obtained from this case and the existing literature suggest that ( 1 ) in persons with quadriplegia , plasma catecholamine levels show little increase with sitting , indicating an inability to activate baroreceptor and chemoreceptor reflexes , ( 2 ) elevated plasma aldosterone and renin levels indicate a renal compensatory response to decreased renal perfusion secondary to low plasma volume and/or chronic hypotension , and ( 3 ) the net effect of ergotamine and fludrocortisone is probably a combination of plasma volume expansion and direct peripheral vasoconstriction . 
silent myocardial ischemia during rehabilitation for cerebrovascular disease . in asymptomatic patients the importance of silent ischemic st-t wave changes on holter monitoring is known to be a significant predictive variable for one-year mortality of postmyocardial infarction patients . this case report represents the uses of ambulatory ecg to detect ischemic st changes in patients who have had recent strokes . the cases reported here of silent myocardiac ischemia in stroke patients reflect previous reports in which 70 % of the ischemic episodes in patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease are not associated with angina and in which approximately 10 % to 15 % of acute myocardial infarctions are silent . we now believe that the incidence of " silent " ischemia may be precipitated in poststroke patients during their rehabilitation program . this belief is supported by two main factors . first , a high level of personally relevant mental stress exists which activates the sympathoadrenal system , which may lead to myocardial ischemia . second , some stroke patients become aphasic and are unable to communicate adequately even if they experience angina symptoms . we have found that poststroke , most patients could not undergo exercise treadmill testing secondary to a variety of factors : inability to coordinate limbs , poor endurance , inability to follow directions , and/or lack of attention . we now propose that 24-hour monitoring for st-t wave changes poststroke should be considered as part of a vigorous investigation for myocardial ischemia during the rehabilitation of these patients because they have an increased risk of cardiac morbidity . 
lower extremity arterial disease in systemic lupus erythematosus . lupus vasculitis primarily affects microvascular circulation , and large-vessel thrombosis is a rare complication of this disease . large-vessel occlusive disease in systemic lupus erythematosus is most likely related to hypercoagulability in addition to immune complex-mediated endothelial damage . we describe the 11th and 12th patients reported to have systemic lupus erythematosus and macrovascular occlusive disease of the lower extremities . our experience and a review of the literature suggest that , while aortoiliac disease is amenable to bypass or endarterectomy , infrainguinal disease is rarely correctable surgically , and amputation becomes necessary in most of these patients . 
vertebrobasilar occlusion following minor trauma in an 8-year-old boy . an 8-year-old boy developed seizures and coma 2 days after a trivial bicycle accident . computed tomography failed to show pathology . magnetic resonance imaging of the head showed infarction of the pons and right cerebellum . angiography showed occlusion of the right vertebral and basilar arteries . minor traumatic injuries to the cervical spine may result in vertebrobasilar occlusion . the neurologic manifestations of this disorder and emergency department diagnosis and management are discussed . 
the effects of age and peripheral vascular disease on the circulatory and mechanical response of skin to loading . the skin and subcutaneous soft tissues of amputation residual limbs are required to withstand externally applied loads of greater magnitude than similar tissues of the intact lower limb . increased age and poor circulatory status may contribute to the increased risk of tissue injury seen in this population . this study evaluates the effects of age and circulatory status as risk factors for skin injury resulting from externally applied forces . twelve young control ( yc ) , six elderly control ( oc ) and 11 subjects with peripheral vascular disease ( pvd ) were studied . after base-line ankle arm index ( aai ) measurements , tcpo2 electrodes were applied 10 cm below the knee over the medial surface of the tibia and the muscle belly of tibialis anterior . tcpo2 measurements and tissue displacements were obtained under the influence of incremented , normally oriented , external loads . the sensitivity of the tissues to applied loads was determined by calculating the load at which the tcpo2 reached zero . the stiffness of the tissues ( displacement/load ) was calculated under high ( greater than 40 mm hg ) and low ( less than 20 mm hg ) loading conditions . no difference was noted in tissue sensitivity to applied loads between the oc and yc populations . the tcpo2 decreased to zero in the pvd population at significantly lower applied loads than both the oc and yc populations . the tissue stiffness of the pvd and the oc populations over bone was greater than the yc population , but no significant differences were noted between the pvd and the oc populations . in summary , increased age does not result in a greater tissue sensitivity to externally applied loads , in spite of the demonstrated increased tissue stiffness . 
prevention of hypotension following spinal anaesthesia for elective caesarean section by wrapping of the legs . twenty-four parturients undergoing elective caesarean section were allocated randomly to have the legs wrapped with elasticated esmarch bandages immediately following spinal anaesthesia or to serve as controls . significant hypotension ( systolic arterial pressure less than 100 mm hg and less than 80 % of baseline value ) was treated with i.v. ephedrine in 5-mg boluses . leg wrapped patients had a significantly ( p = 0.0033 ) lower incidence ( 16.7 % ) of hypotension than controls ( 83.3 % ) . only two patients in the leg wrapped group required ephedrine compared with 10 in the control group . systolic arterial pressure was significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) less in control subjects at 4 , 5 and 6 min following spinal injection . no patient in the leg wrapped group became hypotensive following removal of the elasticated bandages . 
massive histamine release in a patient with systemic mastocytosis . we have measured plasma histamine concentrations , systemic vascular resistance , cardiac output and arterial pressure during laparotomy in a patient with systemic mastocytosis . the patient developed vasodilation and hypotension during surgery , associated with a massive increase in plasma histamine concentration . 
the cancer experience in the framingham heart study cohort . the almost 40-year records of the framingham heart study ( fhs ) cohort were reviewed to establish the cancer experience of this noninstitutionalized group of white subjects . diagnoses were confirmed from pathology and laboratory reports and clinical notes . age-specific incidence rates were compared with connecticut surveillance , epidemiology , and end results ( seer ) data . among the 5209 subjects , 1201 malignancies were confirmed . median age at diagnosis was 69 for men and 65 for women . lung , prostate , skin , and colon accounted for more than half of men 's cancers ; breast , colon , and skin made up half of the women 's . fhs and connecticut seer rates matched closely , with the same primary tumor sites appearing commonly in both groups . thus , the fhs cohort should provide a fair database for analysis of risk factors in cancer incidence , as it has done in cardiovascular diseases . 
surgical management of pericardial effusion in patients with malignancies . comparison of subxiphoid window versus pericardiectomy . there is a lack of consensus regarding optimal surgical management of symptomatic pericardial effusions in patients with malignancies . subxiphoid pericardial window formation ( subxiphoid pericardial drainage ) has been considered a safe and effective method for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes . to ensure adequate drainage , many surgeons prefer the formation of a larger pericardial window by performing either an anterior thoracotomy or a partial/total pericardiectomy . to evaluate the efficacy of these methods for palliation of symptomatic pericardial effusion in patients with malignancy , 28 consecutive pericardial surgery cases involving patients with malignancy were retrospectively analyzed . ten patients ( group 1 ) had subxiphoid window formation , whereas 18 patients ( group 2 ) had partial or total pericardiectomy or pericardial window formation by anterior thoracotomy . there was no statistically significant difference ( p = 0.22 ) in the survival rates between these two groups . a median survival time of 2.67 months ( range , 0.43 to 26.6 months ) was observed in group 1 versus 1.23 months ( range , 0.03 to 10.83 months ) in group 2 . however , a statistically significant difference ( p less than or equal to 0.02 ) in postoperative morbidity was observed between the two groups : 67 % in group 2 versus 10 % in group 1 . because of lower morbidity , subxiphoid pericardial window formation is recommended by this study as the preferred surgical method for palliation of symptomatic pericardial effusion in patients with malignancy . 
late effects of treatment for wilms ' tumor . a report from the national wilms ' tumor study group . the national wilms ' tumor study ( nwts ) was initiated in 1969 . one of its objectives was to modulate treatments according to risk factors to minimize the number and severity of treatment-related short-term and long-term iatrogenic complications . the nwts has therefore incorporated a long term follow-up study ( ltfs ) within its framework to monitor late effects . the ltfs is confined to relapse-free survivors alive 5 years or longer after initial surgery , and data are collected using specifically designed forms . a total of 787 patients registered on nwts-1 or nwts-2 ( 1969 to 1979 ) were eligible , of whom 680 ( 86 % ) were available for analysis regarding musculoskeletal , cardiovascular , and neuropsychologic status , and the presence of benign and malignant tumors . patients with early-stage disease who were treated with radiation had scoliosis reported , along with other musculoskeletal abnormalities ( 32 versus 2 ) , nearly seven times as often as did the members of the cohort population who did not undergo radiation ( 35 of 57 versus 5 of 53 , respectively ) . the difference in cardiovascular problems recorded in survivors who did and did not receive adriamycin ( adria laboratories , columbus , oh ) ( 2.4 versus 1.1 per 100-person years at risk ) had borderline statistical significance ( p = 0.06 ) . no excess in neuropsychologic events was reported for those given the neurotoxin vincristine . when considering patients with disease of all stages , all 5 second malignant tumors occurred in the 623 patients who underwent radiation ( rt patients ) ; benign tumors were also more frequent in rt patients than in those patients who did not undergo radiation ( 41 of 486 or 8 % versus 4 of 194 or 2 % ) . continuing study of this unique body of patients is needed , especially for those given adriamycin , because of the known long interval needed for latent cardiomyopathy to become clinically manifest in some patients . 
occult cancer in patients with deep venous thrombosis . a systematic approach . the authors prospectively studied 113 consecutive patients with deep venous thrombosis of the lower extremities to determine the most appropriate workup study for searching for a hidden cancer . after a careful physical examination , the following routine tests were performed : erythrocyte sedimentation rate ( esr ) , whole blood counts , biochemistry , carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) levels , chest radiograph , upper gastrointestinal endoscopy , abdominal ultrasound and computed tomography ( ct ) scan . if a malignant lesion was suspected , further appropriate studies were performed . after discharge , periodic follow-up was performed on all patients in the outpatient clinic . a malignant neoplasm was detected in 12 patients . of these 12 patients , six were asymptomatic with the exception of experiencing thrombophlebitis . cancer was found more commonly in patients with idiopathic deep vein thrombosis ( dvt ) ( 7 of 31 versus 5 of 82 patients with secondary dvt ; p = 0.012 ) , and in those patients with abnormal lactic dehydrogenase ( ldh ) levels ( 6 of 23 versus 6 of 90 ; p = 0.007 ) . abnormal cea levels allowed diagnosis of two cases of colonic cancer ( on colonoscopy ) . both ultrasound and ct scan of the abdomen showed two cases of urinary bladder carcinoma at a very early stage . furthermore , two cases of adenomatous polyps in colon were found , a condition considered by most authors to be a colorectal cancer precursor . in addition , there were five patients with large benign pelvic tumors , and two patients with absent inferior vena cava . the most striking finding was that some cases of cancer were at a very early stage . it was concluded that blood cell counts , ldh , cea , chest radiograph , and abdominal ultrasonography ( or ct scan ) should be routinely performed on all patients with deep venous thrombosis ( particularly those with idiopathic dvt ) . malignancy would not have been recognized in some patients if these tests had not been performed . 
combination therapy for anaplastic giant cell thyroid carcinoma . since 1981 , 20 patients with anaplastic giant cell carcinoma of the thyroid have been prospectively treated according to a combination regimen of chemotherapy and external beam radiation therapy . two types of chemotherapy were used every 4 weeks , depending on the patient 's age . for those younger than 65 years , a combination of doxorubicin ( 60 mg/m2 ) and cisplatin ( 90 mg/m2 ) was given , and for older patients mitoxantrone ( 14 mg/m2 ) was used . radiotherapy was carried out between day 10 and day 20 of the first four cycles of chemotherapy . it delivered 17.5 gy in 7 fractions to the neck and the superior mediastinum . survival exceeding 20 months was observed in three patients . complete neck tumor response was observed in five patients , among whom four had undergone previous operations . no response was seen in distant metastases , which were the cause of death in 14 patients . these treatment modalities are effective in some patients , both in terms of survival and of local control , avoiding death from local invasion . gross tumor resection should be performed whenever possible but should not delay the commencement of this protocol . toxicity was high and remains the main limiting factor . 
intrapericardial infusion of 5-fluorouracil . an unusual complication of a hickman catheter . venous access devices ( vad ) have become an important tool in the management of patients with cancer . multiple complications can occur as a consequence of insertion of a vad . the authors report a case of a hickman catheter perforating the wall of the superior vena cava into the pericardium , resulting in accidental intrapericardial infusion of 5-fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) . pericarditis and cardiac arrhythmias developed , but the patient did not have cardiac tamponade . she recovered from the event without apparent chronic cardiac dysfunction . 
use of autologous blood in total hip replacement . a comprehensive program . we evaluated the effectiveness of a comprehensive program for the use of autologous blood in reduction of the need for transfusion of homologous blood in total hip replacement in a prospective study of a consecutive series of patients . transfusion of homologous blood was minimized through transfusion of preoperatively deposited autologous blood , intraoperative and postoperative salvage of washed red blood cells , and use of the clinical condition of the patient as the sole criterion for transfusion of non-autologous blood , regardless of the hematocrit . the cases of 143 patients who had had 154 primary total hip replacements were studied . one hundred and forty-three procedures were done on patients who had not been prevented from donating blood for medical reasons , and 93 per cent of these 143 procedures were performed with the availability of one to five units of preoperatively deposited autologous blood . the patients predeposited an average of 2.6 units of blood for each procedure . ninety-two per cent of the procedures for which autologous blood had been predeposited were performed without transfusion of homologous blood . in the entire group of patients , almost 90 per cent of the transfused blood was autologous blood . intraoperative salvage of red blood cells was successful in 148 procedures , and salvage was continued in the recovery room for all of these patients . an average of 408 milliliters of red blood cells was saved and reinfused , and this was 28 per cent of the average total loss of blood ( 1435 milliliters ) for this series of procedures . 
ulcerative colitis and giant cell arteritis associated with sensorineural deafness sensorineural deafness is rarely associated with both ulcerative colitis and giant cell arteritis . a patient is described in whom acute sensorineural deafness occurred in association with episcleritis , ulcerative colitis and clinical features suggesting giant cell arteritis . 
long-term follow-up in isolated ventricular septal defect considered too small to warrant operation . an isolated ventricular septal defect ( vsd ) was diagnosed in 70 patients ( 39 men and 31 women , mean age 29 years , range 10-64 years ) . surgery was judged unnecessary . the follow-up period was at least 10 years , or until death or 31 december 1988 , comprising a mean duration of 21 ( range 6-29 ) years . the mortality was 11/69 ( one lost to follow-up ) , and was not significantly higher than in a matched ' normal ' group . six deaths were cardiac , four of which could probably be related to the vsd . the follow-up study revealed that : ( 1 ) 14 ( 22 % ) subjects had major , vsd-related complications , and cardiac surgery was indicated in eight patients ; ( 2 ) six ( 10 % ) had minor complications . by the end of 1988 , 24 % of subjects had significant dyspnoea , 22 % had chest pain and 19 % used cardioactive drugs . only 33 % were receiving regular cardiac control in a hospital . thus unoperated adults with a small vsd should be monitored closely , since this condition is far from benign . 
lipoprotein-related coronary risk factors in patients with angiographically defined coronary artery disease : relation to number of stenosed arteries . to determine whether an index estimating antagonism between low density lipoprotein ( ldl ) and high density lipoprotein ( hdl ) would improve separation between groups with and without coronary artherosclerosis , patients undergoing coronary catheterization ( 35 women and 99 men ) were analysed for total cholesterol ( tc ) , hdl cholesterol ( hdlc ) , apolipoprotein a ( apo a ) and apolipoprotein b ( apo b ) . the subjects were categorized as groups 0 , 1 , 2 or 3 according to the number of stenosed arteries ( greater than 75 % areal stenosis ) . thirty of the patients showed no significant coronary atherosclerosis ( group 0 ) . serum apo b and tc concentrations were directly related to the number of stenosed vessels , whereas the concentrations of apo a and hdlc were negatively correlated with the number of stenosed arteries . an ' atherogenic index ' ( ath index ) calculated as the product of serum concentrations of apo b , and tc minus hdlc divided by the product of apo a and hdlc , proved more satisfactory than individual lipoprotein components for discrimination between subjects with and without stenosis . accordingly , identification of coronary groups may be improved by using the ath index . 
effects of long-term treatment with metoprolol and hydrochlorothiazide on plasma lipids and lipoproteins . in order to evaluate the effects of one-year antihypertensive treatment on plasma lipids and lipoproteins , 65 patients whose diastolic blood pressure was in the range 95-120 mmhg were randomly allocated to groups that received either hydrochlorothiazide or metoprolol , or both drugs when the response to one of them was insufficient to control blood pressure . blood pressure was effectively reduced in all groups . patients on hydrochlorothiazide showed a significant increase ( p less than 0.01 ) in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( ldl-c ) after 3 months of treatment . a significant increase in triglycerides was observed after 6 and 12 months , together with a decrease in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( hdl-c ) after 12 months ( p less than 0.05 ) of treatment in patients on metoprolol . in patients treated with both hydrochlorothiazide and metoprolol , total cholesterol increased after 3 ( p less than 0.001 ) and 6 months ( p less than 0.05 ) , triglycerides increased after 6 ( p less than 0.01 ) and 12 months ( p less than 0.01 ) , and ldl-c increased after 3 ( p less than 0.05 ) , 6 ( p less than 0.001 ) and 12 months ( p less than 0.01 ) of treatment , respectively . in 61 % of the patients , three or more lipid parameters were affected during the study period . we conclude that long-term antihypertensive treatment with hydrochlorothiazide , metoprolol , and particularly with both drugs , can induce lipid effects that deserve recognition , because in some cases these might counteract the possible benefit of a reduction in blood pressure on the prevention of coronary heart disease . 
wives of coronary high-risk men -- are they also at higher risk ? the tromso heart study . blood lipids , blood pressure , body mass index ( bmi ) , smoking , dietary and exercise habits were studied in 911 wives of men with high risk for coronary heart disease ( chd ) . following the 1979/80 tromso survey , 1373 men , aged 30-54 years , were identified as having high risk for chd ( hdl-cholesterol/total cholesterol less than or equal to 17.6 % and/or total cholesterol greater than or equal to 7.86 mmol l-1 ) . of the 1373 men , 911 individuals had wives who also attended the screening . these wives were compared to age-matched , married women in the general population . a significantly higher total cholesterol level ( 5.98 mmol l-1 vs. 5.78 mmol l-1 ) , lower hdl-cholesterol/total cholesterol ( 30.01 % vs. 31.58 % ) , higher bmi and higher coronary risk score ( 4.55 vs. 3.82 ) was found among the wives of the high-risk men . furthermore , a higher proportion of these individuals were daily cigarette smokers ( 47.3 % vs. 42.1 % ) , and had received fewer years of education . they also had more dietary habits associated with increased risk of chd than other married women in the general population . our findings support the hypothesis that members of the same household as a person with increased risk for chd also have increased risk . this is most probably due to shared lifestyle . 
verapamil increases serum alkaline phosphatase in hypertensive patients . in rats , verapamil decreases intestinal absorption of calcium , increases serum parathyroid hormone ( pth ) , and induces osteopenia . in this prospective study , verapamil 80-120 mg three times daily was given for 2 months to 20 patients with hypertension , and the effects on calcium homeostasis were recorded . this dose of verapamil significantly reduced supine systolic and diastolic blood pressure ( + / - sd ) from 158/100 + / - 9/8 mmhg to 146/89 + / - 14/8 mmhg ( p = 0.001 ) . serum alkaline phosphatase ( alp ) increased significantly from 2.77 + / - 1.06 mu kat l-1 to 3.19 + / - 1.22 mu kat l-1 ( p = 0.004 ) , and isoenzymes of alp of skeletal origin appeared after verapamil treatment . the excretion of sodium in the urine increased ( na/creatinine ratio 8.95 + / - 6.01 before and 13.16 + / - 8.26 after verapamil ; p = 0.04 ) , while the excretion of calcium , phosphate and potassium was not changed . pth was slightly increased at the end of verapamil treatment ( 1.09 + / - 0.54 vs. 0.98 + / - 0.74 microgram l-1 ; p = 0.07 ) , and s-1 ,25 ( oh ) 2d3 was also somewhat increased ( 22.3 + / - 14.4 vs. 17.6 + / - 4.9 ng l-1 ; p = 0.26 ) . serum ca was not affected by verapamil ( before verapamil 2.43 + / - 0.11 mmol l-1 , after verapamil 2.40 + / - 0.12 mmol l-1 ; p = 0.28 ) . the increase in serum alp demonstrates that verapamil affects bone cell metabolism in man . this effect could be secondary to the enhancement of pth secretion . 
kidney function and cardiovascular risk factors in non-insulin-dependent diabetics ( niddm ) with microalbuminuria . microalbuminuria in non-insulin-dependent diabetes ( niddm ) is a strong predictor of increased mortality . the major causes of death are cardiovascular , whereas end-stage renal failure is of low frequency . to define kidney function and the presence of some assumed cardiovascular risk factors , we compared a group of 19 microalbuminuric niddm patients ( m ) , of mean age ( + / - sd ) 65 + / - 4 years , and known duration of diabetes 8 + / - 7 years , with 19 randomly selected matched normoalbuminuric patients ( n ) . seven microalbuminuric patients ( p ) were also studied . glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) did not differ between n and m , whereas kidney volume was increased in m ( 260.3 + / - 54.1 ml 1.73 m-2 ) compared to n ( 220.4 + / - 44.8 ml 1.73 m-2 ; p = 0.018 ) . the frequency of cardiac disease increased with increasing albuminuria . glycaemic control did not differ between the groups , but fasting plasma c-peptide levels increased from 2.8 + / - 1.1 micrograms l-1 in n , to 3.7 + / - 1.7 micrograms l-1 in m ( p = 0.08 ) , and to 4.2 + / - 1.9 micrograms l-1 ( p = 0.03 ) in p. the lipoprotein profile showed no significant differences , although the ldlcholesterol/hdlcholesterol ( ldl-c/hdl-c ) ratio tended to rise . a significant correlation was found between c-peptide and ldl-c/hdl-c ( r = 0.5 ; p less than 10 ( -3 ] . in conclusion , gfr was not increased , and did not differ between n and m , whereas kidney volume was enhanced in m. several assumed cardiovascular risk factors showed values of m intermediate between those of n and p. 
the frequency , causes and timing of death within 30 days of a first stroke : the oxfordshire community stroke project . in a prospective , community-based study of 675 consecutive patients with a first-ever stroke , of whom over 90 % had computed tomography ( ct ) and/or necropsy examinations , 129 deaths occurred within 30 days of the onset of symptoms , a case fatality rate ( cfr ) of 19 % . the 30 day cfr for patients with cerebral infarction was 10 % ( 57 of 545 , for primary intracerebral haemorrhage 52 % ( 34 of 66 ) , for subarachnoid haemorrhage 45 % ( 15 of 33 ) and for those of uncertain pathological type 74 % ( 23 of 31 ) . the cfr for patients who had been functionally dependent pre-stroke was 33 % compared with 17 % for those who had been independent pre-stroke . the age-adjusted relative risk of death for patients who had been functionally dependent pre-stroke was not significantly greater ( 1.8 , 95 % confidence interval 0 to 4.3 ) . there was a significant trend for cfr to increase with age ( chi square for trend = 4.0 , p less than 0.05 ) . this relationship was found in those patients who had been functionally independent prestroke ( chi square for trend = 7.9 , p less than 0.005 ) but not in those who had been dependent pre-stroke ( chi square for trend = 0.5 , ns ) . the pattern of increasing cfr with increasing age amongst those who had been independent prestroke was seen particularly in patients with cerebral infarction ( chi square for trend = 8.6 , p less than 0.005 ) . the age-adjusted relative risk of death for patients with cerebral infarction who had been functionally dependent pre-stroke was 2.2 ( 95 % confidence interval 1.2 to 4.1 ) . fifty three percent of all deaths within 30 days of stroke were due to the direct neurological sequelae of the stroke . 
the natural history of non-arteritic anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy . seventy one patients with non-arteritic anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy were studied retrospectively . sixty three ( 89 % ) were followed to the end of the study or death , mean follow up time was 5.3 years . whilst twenty ( 28 % ) had diabetes or hypertension , in thirty nine ( 55 % ) no predisposing condition was identified . in those who had monocular disease at presentation ( 68 ) , subsequent involvement of the second eye occurred in seventeen ( 25 % ) , seven within the first year . nineteen patients died within the study period . of these , nine died from myocardial infarction and four from cerebrovascular disease . this is a significant increase above figures calculated from the office of population census and surveys ( p less than 0.001 for all causes , p less than 0.002 for myocardial infarction and cerebrovascular disease ) . such an increase in mortality has not been previously reported , and implies that this condition carries a more sinister systemic prognosis than is frequently supposed . 
syndromes of transient amnesia : towards a classification . a study of 153 cases . of 153 patients presenting with acute transient amnesia , 114 fulfilled the proposed strict diagnostic criteria for transient global amnesia ( tga ) . the prognosis of this group was excellent with the exception of a small subgroup ( 7 % ) , largely identifiable because of atypically brief or recurrent attacks , who developed epilepsy of temporal lobe type on follow up . computerised tomography ( ct ) scans performed on 95 patients were normal , evidence for covert alcoholism was lacking and there was a familial incidence of approximately 2 % . by contrast , the group of 39 patients who did not meet the criteria for tga had a significantly worse prognosis with a high incidence of major vascular events . the groups could not be distinguished on the basis of behavioural characteristics during the attack . the following classification was proposed : 1 ) pure tga -- attacks fulfilling the strict criteria , and of more than one hour in duration which do not require detailed investigation , 2 ) probable epileptic amnesia -- attacks of less than an hour or rapidly recurrent , 3 ) probable transient ischaemic amnesia , a minority of cases with additional focal neurological deficits during the attack . 
visual evoked potential monitoring of optic nerve function during surgery . a study was made with intra-operative flash -- visual evoked potentials ( vep ) monitored using a fibre-optic/contact lens photo stimulator in 57 patients undergoing intra-orbital surgical procedures with potential risk to the optic nerve . the veps recorded under enflurane and nitrous oxide anaesthesia did not differ significantly in latency or amplitude from the pre-operative recordings . transient abolition of the vep was seen under many circumstances and did not correlate with the outcome of surgery , but absence of a previously normal vep for more than four minutes during surgical manipulation within the orbit did show a correlation with post operative impairment of vision . the technique provides early warning to the surgeon of threats to the integrity of the optic nerve . 
lower extremity arterial disease in elderly subjects with systolic hypertension . the ratio of ankle-to-arm systolic blood pressure ( ankle/arm index or aai ) appears to be a non-invasive indicator of flow-significant atherosclerosis and may be a useful measure of burden of disease in a high risk population . the prevalence of lower extremity arterial disease ( lead ) was assessed by this method in the systolic hypertension in the elderly program ( shep ) . subjects were aged 60 and older with systolic blood pressure greater than 160 mmhg upon entry to the study . an aai of 0.90 or less was considered indicative of flow-significant lead . the prevalence of lead by this method was 26.7 % ( 50/187 ) , while the prevalence of intermittent claudication ( ic ) was only 6.4 % ( 12/187 ) . of those with ic , 66.7 % ( 8/12 ) had confirmed lead . the prevalence of lead as measured by aai increased with age in women and was associated with a history of current smoking and lower levels of high density lipoproteins . in this study population with systolic hypertension , lead , as measured by the aai , is more prevalent than previously described in elderly populations and is associated with other risk factors for atherosclerosis . 
a prospective comparison of rubidium-82 pet and thallium-201 spect myocardial perfusion imaging utilizing a single dipyridamole stress in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease the purpose of the present study is to prospectively compare myocardial perfusion imaging with rubidium-82 ( 82rb ) by positron emission tomography ( pet ) with thallium-201 ( 201tl ) imaging by single-photon emission tomography ( spect ) by recording both studies with a single dipyridamole handgrip stress , and reading both sets of images with the same display technique . in a series of 202 patients with previous coronary arteriography , the sensitivity , specificity , and accuracy of 82rb pet were 93 % , 78 % , and 90 % and for 201tl spect 76 % , 80 % , and 77 % , respectively . when 70 patients with previous therapeutic interventions were excluded , the remaining 132 patients showed a sensitivity , specificity , and accuracy of 95 % , 82 % and 92 % for 82rb pet and 79 % , 76 % , and 78 % for 201tl spect . the improved contrast resolution of pet resulted in markedly superior images and a more confident identification of defects . 
noninvasive measurement of renal blood flow with technetium-99m-dtpa in the evaluation of patients with suspected renovascular hypertension if a hypertensive patient with renal artery stenosis ( ras ) is to benefit from percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty ( ptra ) in terms of a sustained improvement in blood pressure control , one may postulate a demonstrable reduction in renal blood flow ( rbf ) to that kidney , reversible by ptra . in a population of 32 hypertensive patients , ras was present in 23 of 62 kidneys . eleven of the 32 patients underwent renal revascularization , of whom 6 showed improvement in blood pressure control at 6 mo , i.e. , had renovascular hypertension ( rvh ) . there was no correlation between rbf and angiographic appearances of the renal artery . furthermore , there was no significant difference between rbf in the stenosed kidneys of the patients with rvh compared with the stenosed kidneys of patients without rvh . individual kidney rbf was 22 % ( s.d. 11 ) higher 1-3 wk after ptra but the increase did not correlate with clinical outcome . angiotensin converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibition increased rbf by 25 % ( s.d. 25 ) of baseline flow before ptra but the increase did not correlate with clinical outcome . measurement of rbf is of limited value for the prediction of the long-term blood pressure response following ptra . 
phosphorus-32-colloidal chromic phosphate : treatment of choice for malignant pericardial effusion . a 68-yr-old male with agnogenic myeloid metaplasia was given phosphorus-32-colloidal chromic phosphate intrapericardially for the treatment of malignant pericardial effusion . technetium-99m-sulfur colloid was used to verify catheter placement and to visualize distribution within the pericardium . estimated dosimetry for this mode of therapy is presented , and it is suggested that pericardial administration of phosphorus-32-colloidal chromic phosphate is the treatment of choice for malignant pericardial effusion . 
impact of echocardiography on the management of patients with mitral valve prolapse objective : to determine whether echocardiography affects the decisions to use beta blockers or to recommend bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis in patients suspected of having mitral valve prolapse ( mvp ) . design : retrospective review of echocardiograms and clinical records . setting : military tertiary care hospital . patients : 127 patients with clinically suspected mvp ( 105 ) or incidentally discovered mvp ( 22 ) . main results : beta blockers were used more often in patients with suspected mvp and positive echocardiograms ( 45 % ) than in patients with normal echocardiograms ( 13 % , p less than 0.001 ) . bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis was recommended more often in patients with suspected mvp and positive echocardiograms ( 65 % ) than in patients with normal echocardiograms ( 11 % , p less than 0.001 ) . presence or absence of a murmur did not influence the decision to recommend bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis . patients in whom mvp was incidentally discovered were unlikely to receive either beta blockers or the recommendation for bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis . conclusions : the results of echocardiography affect the decisions to use beta blockers or to recommend bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis in patients with suspected mvp . 
reducing unnecessary coronary care unit admissions : a comparison of three decision aids objective : to determine whether published decision rules for ischemic heart disease have practical value in reducing unnecessary admissions to coronary care units . design : prospective cohort study . setting : a community hospital emergency room . patients : 235 consecutive patients presenting to an emergency room with a chief complaint of chest pain . measurements : clinical information , including observations needed to use previously published decision aids , was collected on special forms at the time of the emergency room visit . follow-up information was obtained from the medical records of patients who were admitted and by telephone interviews with patients who were discharged . the authors compared the residents ' actual decisions with the predictions of the decision aids regarding their ability to predict complications ( that is , to identify patients who needed admission or intensive care ) . main results and conclusions : none of the decision aids could reduce unnecessary admissions without seriously increasing the rate of inappropriate discharges . however , within the clinically relevant subgroup of patients for whom the decision to admit or discharge was not obvious on clinical grounds ( those without complications on presentation whom the residents chose not to discharge ) , the decision aids examined , used in combination to verify the need for admission , might have safely averted some unnecessary admissions . 
injuries to the cervical spine causing vertebral artery trauma : case reports . in four patients with lesions of the vertebral artery resulting from cervical spine injury , two were due to unilateral facet dislocation and two to fractures of the dens . there was one arterial occlusion with minor vertebrobasilar symptoms , and an arterial lesion with thrombosis causing embolic occlusion of the basilar artery with lethal outcome . in one patient a fresh fracture of the dens caused dislocation of c1/2 with reversible occlusion of the left and stenosis of the right vertebral artery , resulting in unconsciousness . in a patient with pseudarthrosis of the dens an aneurysm of the vertebral artery could be detected . cerebellar or cerebral symptoms associated with cervical spine injury should be investigated by vertebral angiography because vertebral arterial injury may be more common than suspected and may simulate traumatic brain damage . 
arginine vasopressin gene expression in chronic cardiac failure in rats . arginine vasopressin ( avp ) is known to be increased in patients and experimental animals with chronic cardiac failure ( ccf ) . the importance of an increase in biosynthesis of avp in the hypothalamus has , however , not heretofore been investigated and is the purpose of the present study . ccf secondary to infarction of myocardial tissue was induced by ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery and sham operated animals served as controls . four weeks later hypothalamic avp mrna was determined by solution hybridization using sense and anti-sense strand rna . the blood pressure was lower in ccf than sham animals ( 131.2 + / - 3.1 vs. 112.8 + / - 4.0 mm hg , p less than 0.05 ) and the total heart , and right and left ventricle weights were significantly higher in ccf rats . plasma avp was higher in ccf ( sham 6.78 + / - 0.30 ; ccf 11.46 + / - 0.64 pg/ml , p less than 0.001 ) and plasma atrial natriuretic peptide was also higher in ccf than sham animals ( 205 + / - 36 vs. 554 + / - 56 pg/ml , p less than 0.001 ) . the avp mrna in hypothalamus was significantly higher in ccf than sham animals ( 55.5 + / - 3.7 vs. 95.9 + / - 4.0 pg/micrograms total rna , p less than 0.001 ) . there was no difference in beta-actin mrna in the hypothalamus of sham and ccf rats , indicating that the avp-mrna increase was specific in ccf . these results therefore demonstrate that increased avp biosynthesis in the hypothalamus , in addition to release of the hormone from the posterior pituitary , may occur in ccf . 
multicenter trial of l-carnitine in maintenance hemodialysis patients . ii . clinical and biochemical effects . since carnitine deficiency has been reported in some patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis , we studied the effects of intravenous infusion of l-carnitine or placebo at the end of each dialysis treatment . the trial , which lasted seven months ( one month baseline , 6 months treatment ) was multicenter , double blind , placebo controlled , and randomized . eighty-two long-term hemodialysis patients , who were given either carnitine ( n = 38 ) or placebo ( n = 44 ) , completed this study . in each group , clinical and biochemical parameters during treatment were compared with baseline values . intra-dialytic hypotension and muscle cramps were reduced only in the carnitine treated group , while improvement in post-dialysis asthenia was noticed in both carnitine and placebo groups . maximal oxygen consumption , measured during a progressive work exercise test , improved significantly in the carnitine group ( 111 + / - 50 ml/min . p less than 0.03 ) and was unchanged in the placebo group . l-carnitine treatment was associated with a significant drop in pre-dialysis concentrations of serum urea nitrogen , creatinine and phosphorus ( means + / - sem , 101 + / - 4.5 to 84 + / - 3.9 , 16.7 + / - 0.67 to 14.7 + / - 0.64 , and 6.4 + / - 0.3 to 5.5 + / - 0.4 mg/dl , respectively , p less than 0.004 ) . no significant changes in any of these variables were noticed in the placebo group . mid-arm circumference and triceps skinfold thickness were measured in 11 carnitine and 13 placebo treated patients . calculated mid-arm muscle area increased in the carnitine patients ( 41.37 + / - 2.68 to 45.6 + / - 2.82 cm2 , p = 0.05 ) and remained unchanged in the placebo patients . 
anaphylactoid reactions during hemodialysis on an69 membranes in patients receiving ace inhibitors . we report five life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions occurring within the very first minutes of hemodialysis on polyacrylonitrile ( an69 ) capillary dialyzers in three patients receiving ace inhibitors . such reactions were not observed either in patients treated with ace inhibitors but dialyzed on other membranes ( n = 9 ) , nor in patients on an69 who did not receive ace inhibitors ( n = 19 ) . these anaphylactoid reactions could be due to bradykinin accumulation , as a result of both increased synthesis -- by interaction of blood with the an69 polymer -- and catabolism blockade by ace inhibitors . 
long-term follow-up comparing subclavian flap angioplasty to resection with modified oblique end-to-end anastomosis the definitive surgical procedure for correction of aortic coarctation remains controversial . therefore , we retrospectively reviewed a total of 56 children under 4 years of age with coarctation repair between 1977 and 1986 . thirty-four had the subclavian flap angioplasty technique and 22 had resection with oblique end-to-end anastomosis . the group was further subdivided to include only the 23 infants less than 3 months of age -- eight infants with resection with oblique end-to-end anastomosis ( less than or equal to 3ete ) and 15 infants with subclavian flap angioplasty ( greater than or equal to 3sfa ) . the remaining 33 patients older than 3 months of age were divided into 14 patients with resection and oblique end-to-end anastomosis ( greater than 3ete ) and 19 patients with the subclavian flap angioplasty technique ( greater than 3sfa ) . the overall mortality was not significantly different between techniques . postoperative hypertension was significantly more prevalent with end-to-end anastomosis than with the subclavian flap angioplasty technique ( p less than 0.01 ) . seven patients had recurrent coarctation . the 6-year actuarial freedom from recoarctation was 93 % + / - 6 % in the less than or equal to 3sfa group compared with 53 % + / - 20 % in the less than or equal to 3ete group ( p less than 0.02 ) , but there was no significant difference in those children operated on at a later age regarding the type of coarctation repair . therefore , we recommend subclavian flap angioplasty in patients less than 3 months of age . in those older than 3 months either procedure is safe and the risk of recoarctation is similar . 
coronary bypass surgery : is the operation different today ? patients undergoing coronary bypass grafting have undergone an evolution in recent years . to document this change , we analyzed two groups of patients in 1981 ( n = 1586 ) and 1987 ( n = 1513 ) to document preoperative and postoperative variables important in determining immediate morbidity and mortality after isolated coronary bypass . between 1981 and 1987 , patients were found to be older ( greater than or equal to 70 years , 8.7 % versus 21.8 % , p less than 0.0001 ) , more often diabetic ( 15 % versus 24 % , p less than 0.0001 ) , have a greater prevalence of triple vessel disease ( 14.5 % versus 46.1 % , p less than 0.0001 ) , and have more left ventricular dysfunction ( ejection fraction 0.60 + / - 14 versus 0.54 + / - 13 , p less than 0.0001 ) . to facilitate analysis and because of overlap between subgroups , we subdivided patients into three subgroups for statistical comparison of the years 1981 and 1987 : subgroup i , no prior procedure ( n = 1546 in 1981 and 1396 in 1987 ) ; subgroup ii , optimal group ( n = 503 in 1981 and 292 in 1987 , and defined as no prior procedure , ejection fraction greater than or equal to 0.50 and age less than 65 years ) ; subgroup iii , patients having reoperations ( n = 40 in 1981 and 117 in 1987 ) . internal mammary artery grafting was infrequently used in 1981 but was used in 72.1 % in 1987 . major postoperative morbidity between the 2 years for the total population increased significantly : need for intraaortic balloon pumping , 1.4 % versus 4.7 % , p less than 0.0001 ; myocardial infarction 3.5 % versus 5.5 % , p less than 0.008 ; stroke , 1.4 % versus 2.8 % , p less than 0.008 ; and wound infection , 1.0 % versus 3.0 % , p less than 0.001 . wound infection ( all types ) in 1987 was increased sevenfold in patients having a perioperative myocardial infarction ( 0.7 % versus 5 % , p less than 0.0001 ) . for young patients with good left ventricular function ( subgroup ii ) , there was no increase in these morbid events between 1981 and 1987 . hospital mortality in the total population increased significantly between 1981 and 1987 from 1.2 % to 3.1 % ( p less than 0.0002 ) , respectively . it was lowest for the patients in optimal condition ( subgroup ii ) in both years , 0.8 % versus 1.1 % , and highest for reoperative patients , 5.3 % versus 4.3 % . in 1981 , 58 % of patients ( 503/870 ) were in the optimal group compared with 35 % ( 292/828 ) in 1987 ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the last six years have seen a progressive trend in surgically treating older , sicker patients who have more complex disease , with a significant reduction in the best candidate group . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
role of dipyridamole-echocardiography test in the evaluation of coronary reserve after coronary artery bypass grafting . the object of this study was to assess the usefulness of the dipyridamole-echocardiography test in the early evaluation of coronary artery bypass grafting , when the use of an exercise stress test is precluded . we studied 39 consecutive patients ( 37 men and two women , mean age 57.3 years ) referred to our institute for elective coronary artery bypass . five patients had single , 12 patients double , 20 patients triple vessel disease , and two had left main stem disease . nineteen left internal mammary artery grafts , 20 sequential grafts , and 39 single vein grafts were performed . all the patients were subjected to the test before ( time range 1 to 3 days ) and after ( time range 6 to 10 days ) the operation in the absence of therapy . dipyridamole was administered intravenously 0.56 mg/kg over 4 minutes ( low dose ) ; if no effect was apparent , an additional 0.28 mg/kg over 2 minutes ( high dose ) was given . during the test , blood pressure and a twelve-lead electrocardiogram were monitored . an arbitrary wall motion score was derived by dividing the left ventricle into six regions and grading from 0 to 3-normokinetic , hypokinetic , akinetic , and dyskinetic zones . preoperatively the test was positive in 38 patients as evidenced by wall motion abnormalities ( 36 patients had electrocardiographic changes ) and in one patient by electrocardiographic changes and chest pain ; 22 tests were positive after the low dose and 17 after the high dose . angina was present in 33 patients . mean wall motion score was 1.64 per patient in the basal condition and 4.03 per patient after the test ( p less than 0.001 ) . after coronary bypass in three patients the test was positive at the same dosage that was used preoperatively , as shown by wall motion abnormalities ( in two patients by electrocardiographic changes , as well ) . four patients had symptoms . furthermore , at 6 months ' follow-up , a treadmill stress test performed in these three patients was positive for ischemia and angina . the wall motion score was 1.25 per patient in the basal condition and 1.53 per patient after the test ( no significant difference ) . when the preoperative wall motion score obtained after dipyridamole echocardiography was compared with the postoperative score , a statistically significant difference was seen : 4.03 per patient versus 1.53 per patient ( p less than 001 ) . in eight patients we observed an improvement of basal myocardial contractility after the operation , which indicates the reversibility of wall motion abnormalities observed before coronary bypass . in conclusion our data show that the dipyridamole-echocardiography test is a suitable method for the early assessment of bypass grafting when other methods , exercise dependent , are not indicated . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
does use of gastroepiploic artery graft increase surgical risk ? seventy patients in whom the gastroepiploic artery was used for coronary artery bypass grafting were compared with 70 patients in whom the gastroepiploic artery was not used . mean age was 56.8 years in the group in which this artery was used and 61.8 years in the group in which it was not ( p less than 0.001 ) . all other preoperative characteristics including number of women , extent of coronary artery disease , previous myocardial infarction , unstable angina , and preoperative left ventricular function were not significantly different between the two groups . an internal mammary artery graft was concomitantly used in 68 patients ( 97 % ) of the group with a gastroepiploic artery graft and in 61 patients ( 87 % ) without such a graft . the mean number of distal anastomoses was 3.3 and 3.4 , aortic crossclamp time was 65.3 + / - 19.9 minutes and 54.0 + / - 20.1 minutes , and cardiopulmonary bypass time was 114.8 + / - 23.6 minutes and 112.9 + / - 25.0 minutes , respectively , in the groups with and without a gastroepiploic artery graft . only aortic crossclamp time was significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) longer in the group with a gastroepiploic artery graft . there were two ( 2.9 % ) early deaths and two ( 2.9 % ) new q-wave infarctions in both groups . intraaortic balloon pumping was required in five patients ( 7.1 % ) in the group with a gastroepiploic artery graft and in three patients ( 4.3 % ) without this graft . postoperative complications were similar and rare in both groups . intraoperative endoscopic laser doppler study demonstrated no significant change of gastric mucosal blood flow before and after division of the gastroepiploic artery . we concluded that there is no additional risk in the use of the gastroepiploic artery for coronary bypass grafting , and a favorable outcome can be expected . 
neonatal repair of tetralogy of fallot with and without pulmonary atresia . our experience with the arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries has confirmed the attainability of excellent results with elective neonatal surgery . up to this time , we have repaired tetralogy of fallot during the neonatal period only when symptoms , either severe persistent cyanosis or cyanotic spells , have been present . this review assesses the results of such nonelective neonatal correction of tetralogy between 1973 and 1988 . twenty-seven neonates with either symptomatic tetralogy of fallot or symptomatic tetralogy of fallot with valvar pulmonary atresia underwent repair . mean age at repair was 8 + / - 8.4 days and mean weight was 3.0 + / - 0.7 kg . unsatisfactory palliative shunts had previously been placed elsewhere in four patients . twenty-five transannular patches and two conduits were used for reconstruction of the right ventricular outflow tract . there were five deaths in the hospital , three of which were due to avoidable technical problems . all deaths occurred in patients with pulmonary artery ( nakata ) index less than 150 mm2/m2 . one premature child weighing 2.3 kg displayed an absent pulmonary valve-like syndrome after repair and died late of respiratory complications caused by aneurysmal branch pulmonary arteries . actuarial survival at 5 years was 74 % . there was a single rapidly declining hazard phase for death , with the hazard approaching zero at 1 1/2 years after repair . actuarial freedom from need for reoperation was 76 % at 5 years . postoperative catheterization of 15 long-term survivors showed right ventricular pressure less than 70 % systemic in 13 cases . all patients are symptomatically well and functioning in sinus rhythm 1 to 15 years after repair ( mean , 5 + / - 4 years ) . this experience with neonates with symptoms suggests that , if mortality is lower in the absence of symptoms , elective repair of tetralogy of fallot could be reasonably undertaken during the first months of life . 
atrioventricular septal defects . analysis of short - and medium-term results . atrioventricular septal defects were repaired in 87 patients from 1981 to 1988 . interventricular communications were present in 73 patients , and major associated anomalies were present in 17 ( tetralogy of fallot in four , double-outlet right ventricle in two , multiple ventricular septal defects in 11 ) . five deaths occurred in the hospital ( 5.7 % ; 70 % confidence limits , 3.2 % to 9.7 % ) . a preoperative new york heart association class v functional condition was the only incremental risk factor ( p = 0.02 ) for death in the hospital . no patient ( 0 % ; 70 % confidence limits , 0 % to 2.15 % ) had complete heart block . actuarial survival rate at 80 months was 81.4 % . the only incremental risk factor ( p = 0.005 ) leading to reoperation was a preoperative valve incompetence . actuarial rate at 80 months for freedom from reoperation was 84.2 % in the overall group of patients after repair of atrioventricular septal defect . we conclude that an improvement in survival and success rates should be found when a policy of earlier repair is followed . 
studies of myocardial protection in the immature heart . iii . models of ischemic and hypoxic/ischemic injury in the immature puppy heart . this study compares the metabolic and functional effects of three different models of ischemia in the immature heart . the intent was ( 1 ) to develop a model of energy-depleted and functionally depressed heart to be used in subsequent studies of myocardial protection and ( 2 ) to characterize the biochemical changes following different interventions . forty-five minutes of normothermic global ischemia produced severe depletion of adenosine triphosphate and creatine phosphate ( greater than 70 % ) but was associated with 85 % + / - 10 % recovery of left ventricular function . postischemic functional depression ( less than 30 % recovery ) could be produced by either ( 1 ) extending the ischemic duration to 60 minutes or ( 2 ) preceding 45 minutes of ischemia by 60 minutes of hypoxic stress ( oxygen tension 25 to 30 mm hg ) . neither of these more severe interventions caused more profound depletion of adenosine triphosphate or creatine phosphate , but hypoxic stress produced marked tissue depletion of glutamate ( 52 % ) and aspartate ( 48 % ) before aortic clamping . longer ischemia or preceding hypoxia led to greater myocardial accumulation of lactate ( greater than 250 versus 104 mumol/gm dry weight ) and succinate ( 18 versus 11 mumol/gm dry weight ) during aortic clamping , p less than 0.05 versus 45 minutes of ischemia ) and greater postischemic depression and amino acid ( greater than 65 % aspartate depletion ) and carbohydrate ( greater than 50 % glycogen depletion ) metabolism , p less than 0.05 versus simple ischemia . these findings suggest that more severe ischemic/hypoxic models are needed in immature hearts to produce functional depression , and the biochemical analyses suggest the characteristics of metabolic defects that must be corrected to resuscitate these hearts during surgical correction of congenital defects . 
fatal fungal pericarditis after cardiac surgery and immunosuppression . the cases of two patients with fulminant pericarditis after cardiac surgery are reported . both fungal infections developed after rethoracotomy for open-chest cardiac resuscitation and high-dose glucocorticoid treatment . although the time course of both infections from the inoculation of fungi during rethoracotomy and immunosuppression with glucocorticoids to the lethal outcome was strikingly similar , histopathologic studies disclosed the disparate character of the two fungal pathogens responsible : the yeast candida albicans and the angiotropic mold aspergillus fumigatus . 
studies of myocardial protection in the immature heart . iv . improved tolerance of immature myocardium to hypoxia and ischemia by intravenous metabolic support . thirteen immature puppies ( 2 to 4 kg ) underwent 1 hour of acute hypoxia ( oxygen tension 25 to 30 mm hg ) , followed by 45 minutes of normothermic global ischemia on total vented bypass with normal blood reperfusion . ventricular function was assessed by inscribing starling function curves and measuring stroke work indices before hypoxia and after reperfusion . seven puppies ( control ) received normal saline infusion at 4 ml/kg/hr . six other puppies received a 4 ml/kg/hr intravenous infusion of glutamate/aspartate , glucose-insulin-potassium , mercaptopropionyl glycine , carnitine , and catalase during hypoxia and reperfusion . in control hearts , acute hypoxia depleted myocardial glutamate and aspartate by 52 % ( p less than 0.05 versus prehypoxia ) and 48 % ( p less than 0.05 versus prehypoxia ) and caused severe hemodynamic deterioration ( 55 % decrease of stroke work index ) ( p less than 0.05 versus prehypoxia ) ; three of seven ( 43 % ) required premature institution of bypass . postischemic left ventricular function recovered to only 40 % of control levels ( p less than 0.05 versus prehypoxia ) . in contrast , intravenous metabolic infusions maintained tissue glutamate ( p less than 0.05 versus control group ) and aspartate ( p less than 0.05 versus control group ) in treated hearts during hypoxia and allowed cardiac index to rise 20 % ( p less than 0.05 versus prehypoxia ) ; all treated hearts tolerated 1 hour of hypoxia , and stroke work recovered 70 % ( p less than 0.05 versus control group ) of stroke work index after subsequent ischemia . impaired tolerance of immature hearts to acute hypoxia and subsequent ischemia is due to substrate depletion . this impairment can be reduced by intravenous metabolic support during hypoxia and reperfusion and leads to improved recovery of postischemic function . 
studies of myocardial protection in the immature heart . v. safety of prolonged aortic clamping with hypocalcemic glutamate/aspartate blood cardioplegia . this study tests the hypothesis that multidose , hypocalcemic aspartate/glutamate-enriched blood cardioplegia provides safe and effective protection during prolonged aortic clamping of immature hearts . of 17 puppies ( 6 to 8 weeks of age , 3 to 5 kg ) placed on vented cardiopulmonary bypass , five were subjected to 60 minutes of 37 degrees c global ischemia without cardioplegic protection and seven underwent 120 minutes of aortic clamping with 4 degrees c multidose aspartate/glutamate-enriched blood cardioplegia ( [ ca + + ] = 0.2 mmol/l ) , preceded and followed by 37 degrees c blood cardioplegic induction and reperfusion . five puppies underwent blood cardioplegic perfusion for 10 minutes without intervening ischemia to assess the effect of the cardioplegic solution and the delivery techniques . left ventricular performance was assessed 30 minutes after bypass was discontinued ( starling function curves ) . hearts were studied for high-energy phosphates and tissue amino acids . one hour of normothermic ischemia resulted in profound functional depression , with peak stroke work index only 43 % of control ( 0.7 + / - 0.1 versus 1.7 + / - 0.2 gm x m/kg , p less than 0.05 ) . there was 70 % depletion of adenosine triphosphate ( 7.6 + / - 1 versus control 20.3 + / - 1 mumol/gm dry weight , p less than 0.05 ) and 75 % glutamate loss ( 6.6 + / - 1 versus control 26.4 + / - 3 mumol/gm , p less than 0.05 ) . in contrast , after 2 hours of aortic clamping with multidose blood cardioplegia preceded and followed by 37 degrees c blood cardioplegia , there was complete recovery of left ventricular function ( peak stroke work index 1.6 + / - 0.2 gm x m/kg ) and maintenance of adenosine triphosphates , glutamate , and aspartate levels at or above control levels adenosine triphosphate 18 + / - 2 mumol/gm , aspartate 21 + / - 1 versus control 2 mumol/gm , and glutamate 25.4 + / - 2 mumol/gm ) . puppy hearts receiving blood cardioplegic perfusion without ischemia had complete recovery of control stroke work index . we conclude that methods of myocardial protection used in adults , with amino acid-enriched , reduced-calcium blood cardioplegia , can be applied safely to the neonatal heart and allow for complete functional and metabolic recovery after prolonged aortic clamping . 
factors predictive of results of direct ablative operations for drug-refractory ventricular tachycardia . analysis of 80 patients . during a 9-year period 80 patients with drug-resistant sustained ventricular tachycardia underwent direct surgical ablation of arrhythmogenic myocardium . sixty-nine were male ( 86 % ) and 11 female ( 14 % ) , with 1.9 + / - 1.1 ( standard deviation ) ventricular tachycardia morphologies per patient . the mean number of drugs failed was 3.7 + / - 1.6 per patient . the preoperative left ventricular ejection fraction was 36.4 % + / - 14.4 % . complete preoperative endocardial mapping data ( greater than 4 endocardial sites in each ventricular tachycardia ) were available for 60 of the 80 patients ( 75 % ) and intraoperative endocardial data in the clinical ventricular tachycardia was obtained in 37 ( 46.3 % ) of the patients . in 17 patients mapped intraoperatively by computer-assisted techniques , complete epicardial and endocardial data in the clinical ventricular tachycardia were obtained in 14 patients ( 82.4 % ) . overall , 73 of 80 ( 91.3 % ) had some mapping data available . hospital mortality occurred in 10 patients ( 12.5 % ) at a mean interval of 13.5 days , range 0 to 62 days . postoperatively the clinical ventricular tachycardia has not recurred in 65 of 70 surviving patients ( 92.9 % ) . nonclinical ventricular tachycardia occurred in another four patients . all nine patients with postoperative ventricular tachycardia responded to drugs . the major factors predictive of hospital mortality were prolonged cardiopulmonary bypass ( greater than 150 minutes ) , preoperative ejection fraction less than 31 % , and incomplete preoperative mapping . hospital mortality in patients with an ejection fraction below 31 % was significantly associated with a history of amiodarone usage . at 3 years of follow-up , freedom from sudden cardiac death was 95.7 % , and 86.7 % of patients were free of ventricular tachycardia on no antiarrhythmic drugs . these results suggest that direct ventricular tachycardia operations are an effective form of therapy for patients with sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia . 
influence of clinical and hemodynamic variables on risk of supraventricular tachycardia after coronary artery bypass . the influence of 45 variables on risk of postoperative supraventricular tachycardia was evaluated by univariate and multivariate analysis of data from 800 consecutive patients who underwent isolated coronary artery bypass during a 6-year interval . postoperative supraventricular arrhythmias occurred in 186 patients ( 23 % ) but did not contribute to any of the six early deaths ( 30-day mortality rate , 0.8 % ) . mean ( + / - standard deviation ) length of hospital stay was longer ( 9.8 + / - 5.7 versus 8.3 + / - 3.5 days ; p less than 0.0001 ) and mean age was older ( 65 versus 60 years ; p less than 0.002 ) in patients with postoperative supraventricular tachycardia than in those with regular rhythm . risk of supraventricular tachycardia was increased in patients with a history of atrial arrhythmias ( 45 % versus 22 % ; p less than 0.002 ) or premature atrial contractions on the preoperative electrocardiogram ( 48 % versus 22 % ; p less than 0.002 ) . multiple logistic regression analysis identified age 65 years or more , history of atrial arrhythmia or preoperative premature atrial contractions , and preoperative left ventricular end-diastolic pressure 20 mm hg or more as independent predictors of postoperative supraventricular tachycardia . six percent of patients converted to sinus rhythm spontaneously ; 82 % of patients converted within 1.1 + / - 1.9 days after onset of supraventricular tachycardia on treatment with digoxin or beta-adrenergic blocking drugs or both . only 10 % of patients with supraventricular tachycardia required electrical cardioversion . we conclude that the risk of supraventricular tachycardia after coronary artery bypass is influenced by patient-related variables and is effectively managed by conventional therapy . prophylactic treatment should be reserved for elderly patients , especially those who have atrial arrhythmias or have preoperative left ventricular end-diastolic pressure 20 mm hg or more . 
long-term clinical results with the ionescu-shiley pericardial xenograft . from 1977 to 1987 , 829 ionescu-shiley pericardial valves ( shiley , inc. , irvine , calif. ) were implanted in 766 patients at the university of ottawa heart institute . there were 476 patients who had aortic valve replacement , 234 who had mitral valve replacement , and 44 who had double valve replacement . the standard-profile design was used in 508 patients and the low-profile design in 321 patients . follow-up was obtained for 97 % of patients , with calculation of event-free probabilities . at 10 years the overall probability of freedom from structural failure was 48 % + / - 7 % after aortic valve replacement , 44 % + / - 15 % after mitral valve replacement , and 79 % + / - 11 % after double valve replacement . although at 5 years the probability of failure was statistically lower with the low-profile design , this favorability was lost by 6 years . freedom from structural failure was only 47 % + / - 7 % for the standard-profile valve at 10 years . thus the probability of freedom from reoperation was only 46 % + / - 7 % after aortic valve replacement , 39 % + / - 6 % after mitral valve replacement , and 65 % + / - 20 % after double valve replacement at 10 years . thromboembolism occurred in 69 patients , for a predicted freedom from this complication at 10 years of 79 % + / - 3 % after aortic , 73 % + / - 7 % after mitral , and 96 % + / - 4 % after double valve replacement . there were 31 cases of endocarditis . the 10-year predicted freedom from endocarditis , therefore , was 86 % + / - 3 % after aortic , 98 % + / - 1 % after mitral , and 97 % + / - 1 % after double valve replacement . a total of 221 operative and late deaths were recorded in this series . prosthetic valve failure accounted for 27 % of late deaths . the 10-year survival rates were estimated to be 56 % + / - 5 % ( aortic valve replacement ) , 54 % + / - 6 % ( mitral valve replacement ) , and 51 % + / - 8 % ( double valve replacement ) . we concluded that the ionescu-shiley pericardial xenograft provides less than optimal clinical performance and its use has been discontinued . 
treatable complications in undiagnosed cases of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease . in a study to determine the proportion of unrecognised cases and the prevalence of treatable complications of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease ( adpkd ) , 46 probands were identified through genetics and renal clinics in melbourne , australia . 321 offspring of the probands who were older than 15 years and had not been previously diagnosed as having adpkd were identified . 68 ( 21 % ) had ultrasound evidence of polycystic kidney disease . of this previously undiagnosed group , 25 ( 37 % ) had one or more treatable complications at the time of diagnosis . the complications included 20 cases of hypertension ( diastolic blood pressure 95 mm hg or above ) , 7 cases of impaired renal function ( serum creatinine 0.12 mmol/l or above ) , and 4 cases of bacterial urinary tract infection . 8 people had several complications . adpkd has an important treatable component which is not being treated in a substantial proportion of affected individuals , because the disease is not being diagnosed despite the presence of a positive family history . 
two types of abnormal genes for plasminogen in families with a predisposition for thrombosis [ published erratum appears in proc natl acad sci u s a 1991 apr 1 ; 88 ( 7 ) :2967 ] the gene coding for plasminogen has been compared with several abnormal genes from japanese patients by the polymerase chain reaction and dna sequence analysis . two types of abnormal genes coding for plasminogen were identified in these patients . in the type i mutation , a guanosine in gct coding for ala-601 near the active-site histidine was replaced by an adenosine resulting in act coding for threonine . this mutation was also shown by the loss of a cleavage site for fnu4hi endonuclease , a restriction enzyme that recognizes gctgc but not actgc . in the type ii mutation , a guanosine in gtc coding for val-355 was replaced by a thymidine resulting in ttc coding for phenylalanine . this change was readily shown by digestion with ava ii endonuclease , a restriction enzyme that recognizes ggtcc and not gttcc . the type i mutation has been found to be identical to a plasminogen variant identified in japanese patients by amino acid sequence analysis and also detected by isoelectric focusing , whereas the type ii mutation is a unique amino acid substitution in the connecting region between the third and fourth kringles in plasminogen . dna sequence analysis also revealed that the abnormal genes carry several silent nucleotide substitutions located primarily within introns and 5 ' and 3 ' flanking regions . 
renovascular disease and renal complications of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy renal complications of angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitor therapy are widely recognized , but few authors have documented the incidence or spectrum of these conditions . in a retrospective study of 530 consecutive patients presenting to our unit as acute uraemic emergencies over a six-year period , 85 ( 16 per cent ) had renovascular disease that was considered to be responsible for their loss of renal function . twenty-one ( 4 per cent ) patients had uraemia which could be clearly attributable to ace inhibitor treatment ; 18 of these cases were shown to have significant renovascular pathology . following withdrawal of the ace inhibitor the renal failure reversed in the majority of patients . we also examined 400 consecutive hypertensive patients referred over a similar period and , although vascular imaging was performed only when it was considered to be clinically indicated , 58 ( 14.5 per cent ) of these patients were shown to have renovascular pathology . a further five patients with stable chronic renal disease were seen to have a deterioration in their glomerular filtration rate coincident with commencement of ace inhibitor therapy ; this reversed when the agents were withdrawn . these observations indicate that significant renovascular disease may be more common than has been hitherto recognized and that injudicious use of ace inhibitors may result in serious complications . methods which may minimize such iatrogenic disease are suggested . 
native valve endocarditis due to pseudallescheria boydii in a patient with aids : case report and review . a 53-year-old man with aids developed mitral valve endocarditis due to infection with the fungus pseudallescheria boydii . a limited number of cases of prosthetic valve endocarditis caused by this organism have been described . we report a unique case of pseudallescheria infection of a native valve and describe this disease in a patient with aids . 
captopril-induced cholestatic jaundice . i have reported a case of captopril-induced cholestatic jaundice . this drug is being used with increasing frequency , so it is important that physicians recognize this adverse effect . captopril-induced jaundice resolves after cessation of captopril therapy . 
a histopathologic study of spinal cord ischemia using an isohistogenic rat upper-half-body transplantation model . to study the histopathologic changes of spinal cords exposed to long-duration complete ischemia , the authors developed an upper-half-body transplantation model of inbred rat . in this model , an infant lewis rat is transplanted to the inguinal region of another adult lewis rat using microsurgical vascular anastomosis . even when 2-week-old donor rats were exposed to complete ischemia for 90 minutes , functions of the spinal cord were comparatively preserved . in histopathologic observations , degeneration proportional to complete ischemia duration was noted . in the 60-minute ischemia group of 2-week-old donor rats , however , no substantial differences from normal spinal cord were observed . under conditions of equal ischemia duration , it appeared the younger animal had the greater ischemic tolerance . 
predictors of long-term cardiac survival in patients with multivessel coronary artery disease undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . the predictors of 5-year cardiac survival in patients with multivessel coronary artery disease ( cad ) undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) were analyzed in a series of 637 consecutive patients . the average age was 59 + / - 11 years in 472 men and 165 women . diabetes mellitus , previous myocardial infarction and unstable angina were present in 119 ( 19 % ) , 261 ( 41 % ) and 305 ( 47 % ) patients , respectively . angiographically , 460 patients had 2-vessel and 177 patients had 3-vessel cad . the left ventricular contraction score was greater than or equal to 12 in 55 patients . angiographic success ( less than 50 % residual stenosis ) was achieved in 85 % of the 1,343 narrowings and clinical success was obtained in 526 ( 83 % ) of the 637 patients . complete revascularization was obtained in 177 ( 34 % ) of 526 successful patients . procedure-related complications resulted in death in 9 patients ( 1.4 % ) , in q-wave myocardial infarction only in 6 patients ( 0.9 % ) and in emergency bypass surgery in 44 patients ( 6.9 % ) ( of whom 10 had q-wave myocardial infarction ) . follow-up for greater than or equal to 1 year and up to 6 years after ptca was obtained in 608 ( 95 % ) of the 637 patients . to determine the predictors of 5-year cardiac survival , 28 clinical , angiographic and procedural variables were analyzed by cox proportional-hazards regression . the estimated 5-year survival after ptca was 88 + / - 2 % in successful patients and 77 + / - 5 % in patients in whom ptca was unsuccessful ( p less than 0.001 ) . when clinical success was forced into the cox regression , the left ventricular contraction score of greater than or equal to 12 , diabetes mellitus and age greater than or equal to 65 years showed additional adverse effects on survival . 
severity of single-vessel coronary arterial stenosis and duration of angina as determinants of recruitable collateral vessels during balloon angioplasty occlusion . to determine the factors that influence the presence of collateral vessels during coronary occlusion , we performed standardized contrast injection of the contralateral coronary artery in 58 consecutive patients , without previous myocardial infarction , undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty for 1-vessel disease ( left anterior descending artery in 45 , right coronary artery : in 10 and left circumflex artery in 3 ) . the presence of collateral vessels during coronary occlusion , defined as partial or complete epicardial opacification by collateral vessels of the vessel dilated , was related to clinical , angiographic and electrocardiographic parameters . the angiographic appearance of collateral vessels during balloon inflation showed a weak , although statistically significant , correlation to the percent diameter stenosis before angioplasty ( r = 0.28 ; p = 0.03 ) and the duration of angina ( r = 0.37 ; p = 0.004 ) . by combining lesion severity with the duration of angina , collateral vessels during coronary occlusion were particularly related to a lesion severity greater than or equal to 70 % and duration of angina greater than or equal to 3 months ( p less than 0.001 ) . furthermore , the presence of collateral vessels was associated with an absence of st-segment shift ( greater than or equal to 1 mm ) during 1 minute of coronary occlusion ( p less than 0.001 ) . 
characteristics of black patients admitted to coronary care units in metropolitan seattle : results from the myocardial infarction triage and intervention registry ( miti ) . since 1988 , 641 black and 11,892 white patients with chest pain of presumed cardiac origin have been admitted to coronary care units in 19 hospitals in metropolitan seattle . black men and women were younger ( 58 vs 66 , p less than 0.0001 ) , more often admitted to central city hospitals ( p less than 0.0001 ) , and developed evidence of acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) less often ( 19 vs 23 % , p = 0.01 ) . in the subset of 2,870 ami patients , blacks ( n = 121 ) were younger ( 59 vs 67 , p less than 0.0001 ) and had less prior coronary artery bypass graft surgery ( 2 vs 10 % , p = 0.005 ) and more prior hypertension ( 67 vs 46 % , p less than 0.0001 ) . during hospitalization , whites ( n = 2,749 ) had higher rates of coronary angioplasty ( 18 vs 10 % , p = 0.03 ) and coronary artery bypass graft surgery ( 10 vs 4 % , p = 0.04 ) , although thrombolytic therapy and cardiac catheterization were used equally in the 2 groups . hospital mortality was 7.4 % for black and 13.1 % for white patients ( p = 0.07 ) . however , after adjustment for key demographic and clinical variables by logistic regression , this difference was not as apparent ( p = 0.38 ) . questions about the premature onset of coronary artery disease , excess systemic hypertension , and the differential use of interventions in black persons have been raised by other investigators . despite differences in age , referral patterns and the use of coronary angioplasty and bypass surgery , black and white patients with ami in metropolitan seattle had similar outcomes . 
late results of 200 repeat coronary artery bypass operations . to determine the clinical outcome and the long-term results of a second coronary artery bypass operation , we studied preoperative clinical status and catheterization data in 200 consecutive patients over a 9-year period ( 1979 to 1987 ) ( mean follow up time 34 months , maximum 120 ) . the study group included 169 men and 31 women ( mean age 58.4 years [ 7 % greater than 70 years ] ) . sixty-four percent of patients had severe angina ( new york heart association class iv ) , 70 % had 3-vessel coronary artery disease and 21 % had poor left ventricular function . reoperation was performed after a mean interval of 58 months after the first procedure . a mean of 3.3 distal anastomoses was placed . the operative mortality rate ( 30 days ) was 7.5 % , with additional cardiac morbidity ( myocardial infarction , heart failure ) in 11.5 % of patients . multivariate analysis showed an increased risk in women ( risk ratio 3.6 ) and in patients with poor left ventricular function ( risk ratio 3.1 ) . the cumulative 5-year survival rate was estimated at 84 % , with a rate of 77 % for patients with poor left ventricular function ( difference not significant ) . the probability of remaining free of a cardiac-related event ( myocardial infarction , angioplasty , third operation , cardiac death ) was 64 % for 5 years . at the end of follow-up , 79 % of the surviving patients were in new york heart association class i or ii and nearly 50 % of patients in the fifth year after the reoperation had good functional status . it is concluded that a reoperation is effective but carries an increased , immediate , operative risk . 
cardiovascular risk factor clustering and ratio of total cholesterol to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol in angiographically documented coronary artery disease . high levels of cardiac risk factors tend to cluster together and act synergistically . to develop a suitable and practical marker for clustering , we evaluated 380 consecutive patients at the time of coronary angiography . analyses of lipid , rheologic , clinical and arteriographic profiles indicated a variety of interwoven relations . because the ratio of total cholesterol to high-density lipoprotein ( hdl ) cholesterol ( total/hdl cholesterol ) was closely related to both the presence and extent of greater than or equal to 50 % diameter reduction of greater than or equal to 1 coronary arteries , it was used to divide patients into quartiles . clustering of high - and low-level risk factors was demonstrated in the highest and lowest quartiles of total/hdl cholesterol , respectively ( p less than 0.001 ) . the highest quartile may be characterized by an only moderately elevated total cholesterol level but patients in this quartile may have a very low hdl cholesterol level , high triglycerides , a tendency toward high hemoglobin and fibrinogen levels , a history of smoking , previous myocardial infarction and multivessel disease . these results suggest that total/hdl cholesterol serves as a marker not only for obstructive coronary disease but also for a cluster of potentially modifiable risk factors . 
prevalence of unsuspected mitral regurgitation and left ventricular diastolic dysfunction in patients with coronary artery disease and acute pulmonary edema associated with normal or depressed left ventricular systolic function . to define the prevalence and role of left ventricular ( lv ) systolic dysfunction , lv diastolic dysfunction and mitral regurgitation ( mr ) in patients with acute pulmonary edema , 40 patients with coronary artery disease and acute pulmonary edema were prospectively evaluated within 36 hours of presentation . lv ejection fraction and 3 parameters of lv diastolic function were measured with radionuclide ventriculography , whereas mr was assessed with doppler echocardiography . lv ejection fraction was normal in 11 ( 27 % ) and depressed in 29 ( 73 % ) patients . moderate or severe mr without lv diastolic dysfunction was common and equally prevalent in patients with and without lv systolic dysfunction ( 33 vs 38 % ; difference not significant ) . diastolic dysfunction without mr was less frequent but equally prevalent in patients with and without systolic dysfunction ( 17 vs 27 % ; difference not significant ) . two ( 18 % ) of 11 patients without and 12 ( 33 % ) of 36 patients with lv systolic dysfunction had both mr and lv diastolic dysfunction . furthermore , mr was clinically silent and unsuspected in two-thirds of all patients with mr , regardless of a normal or depressed systolic function . these data show that there is a high prevalence of unrecognized moderate to severe mr in patients with acute pulmonary edema , regardless of the presence or absence of lv systolic dysfunction . furthermore , the prevalence of lv diastolic dysfunction without mr is relatively low even in patients with normal lv systolic function and pulmonary edema . thus , unrecognized mr may be an important contributor to the syndrome of acute pulmonary edema in patients with normal or depressed lv systolic function . 
ventricular tachycardia and accelerated ventricular rhythm presenting in the first month of life . fourteen infants aged less than 1 month presented to our institution during the last 22 years with ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) or accelerated ventricular rhythm and a structurally normal heart . in 2 , vt was associated with long qt syndrome . both are alive on beta-blocker therapy , 1 with an implanted pacemaker . twelve infants had accelerated ventricular rhythm , and 2 of these died in the first 2 months of life of unrelated conditions . the other 10 are alive at a median age of 4 years ( range 2 months to 11 years ) , and none were lost to follow-up . hemodynamic compromise did not occur with accelerated ventricular rhythm . the ventricular rate was very close to the sinus rate in all 12 , less than 12 % above the sinus rate . the mean qrs duration during accelerated ventricular rhythm was 92.5 ms , and averaged twice the qrs duration during sinus rhythm . fusion beats were seen in all 12 , and there was atrioventricular dissociation with capture beats in 10 . in 2 , ventriculoatrial conduction was present . treatment was attempted in 5 of the 10 survivors with accelerated ventricular rhythm , and was thought to be successful in 4 . treatment was later successfully withdrawn in all 5 , so that all 10 survivors were free of accelerated ventricular rhythm and were not receiving antiarrhythmic medications at last follow-up . because of the excellent long-term outcome and the lack of hemodynamic compromise during the rhythm , it seems reasonable to withhold antiarrhythmic therapy in infants with accelerated ventricular rhythm and await resolution of the rhythm . 
exercise thallium-201 imaging in complete left bundle branch block and the prevalence of septal perfusion defects . to determine the prevalence of septal defects in a generalized referral population , the records of 93 consecutive patients with complete left bundle branch block ( bbb ) who underwent symptom-limited treadmill exercise testing with thallium-201 myocardial imaging over a 3-year period were reviewed . segmental analysis of the planar thallium-201 images was performed in a blinded fashion with agreement by consensus . computerized quantitative analysis of the images also was independently performed , and was correlated with the visual interpretations . forty-seven patients ( 51 % ) had normal images , and 46 ( 49 % ) had defects of greater than or equal to 2 segments . in the abnormal studies , only 13 patients ( 14 % of the total population ) had septal defects , while a much higher number of patients , 33 ( 39 % ) , had inferior or apical defects , or both . coronary angiography was performed in 6 patients with septal defects : significant narrowing of the left anterior descending coronary artery was found in 4 patients , a narrowed right coronary artery was found in 1 , and normal coronary arteries were seen in the other patient . in conclusion , whereas previous studies have suggested a high percentage of false-positive septal defects in patients with left bbb , this study demonstrates a low prevalence ( 14 % ) of septal defects in a large population of unselected patients presenting for exercise thallium-201 imaging . therefore , exercise thallium-201 imaging remains a useful procedure for evaluating patients with complete left bbb . 
characterization of spontaneous termination of sustained ventricular tachycardia associated with coronary artery disease . to characterize the change in cycle length and qrs morphology before spontaneous termination of sustained ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) , electrocardiograms were recorded and vt cycle length measured for the periods 31 to 21 and 11 to 1 beats before termination in 55 episodes from 28 patients with coronary artery disease . beats 31 to 21 were designated as a period of stable arrhythmia and served as a reference for changes occurring just before termination . forty-four episodes of vt occurred in the setting of antiarrhythmic drug therapy ; 11 episodes occurred in patients not treated with antiarrhythmic drugs . variability in cycle length was indexed by the standard deviation of the mean cycle length and by the percentage of consecutive cycles varying by greater than or equal to 40 ms ( % greater than or equal to 40 ms ) . there was greater variability just before termination ( standard deviation of the mean cycle length , 25.8 ms ; % greater than or equal to 40 ms , 16.7 % ) than during the stable period ( standard deviation of the mean cycle length , 8.5 ms ; % greater than or equal to 40 ms , 5.4 % ; p less than 0.001 for both ) . this was true irrespective of antiarrhythmic drug use , although the differences in the standard deviation of the mean cycle length for beats 11 to 1 and for beats 31 to 21 were greater for the antiarrhythmic drug group ( 29.6 vs 8.9 ms , p less than 0.001 ) than for the group not receiving antiarrhythmic drugs ( 11.0 vs 6.7 ms , difference not significant ) . no specific patterns of cycle length variability characteristic of vt termination were found . 
duration of the qt interval and total and cardiovascular mortality in healthy persons ( the framingham heart study experience ) . the baseline electrocardiograms of 5,125 original subjects of the framingham heart study were measured to examine the relation of the qt interval corrected for heart rate ( qtc ) to risk of total mortality , sudden cardiac death , and death due to coronary artery disease over a 30-year follow-up period . quintiles of qtc ( seconds ) less than or equal to 0.36 , 0.36 to 0.38 , 0.39 to 0.40 , 0.41 to 0.43 and greater than or equal to 0.44 were studied in relation to these outcomes . there were no significant differences in the risk of total mortality , sudden cardiac death or death due to coronary artery disease according to qtc . a similar lack of significant association between qtc and these 3 outcomes was observed among all persons studied and in the 2 sexes after using a multiple regression analysis to control for several potentially confounding characteristics including age , gender , cigarette smoking , serum total cholesterol , systolic systemic blood pressure and framingham relative weight . the results of this study fail to demonstrate an association between baseline qtc and overall mortality , and deaths due to sudden cardiac events or coronary artery disease in a large population-based cohort of essentially healthy persons in whom pathologic forms of qtc prolongation are uncommon . 
comparison of lisinopril versus atenolol for mild to moderate essential hypertension . the antihypertensive effects and safety profiles of lisinopril ( 10 to 40 mg ) and atenolol ( 50 to 100 mg ) were compared in a randomized , double-blind , parallel group trial in 144 patients with essential hypertension . after 8 weeks of therapy , seated blood pressure ( bp ) decreased by 26/15 mm hg with lisinopril and by 19/14 mm hg with atenolol . lisinopril produced a greater reduction ( p less than 0.05 ) in sitting systolic bp than did atenolol . standing bp decreased by 25/15 mm hg with lisinopril and by 19/14 mm hg with atenolol . no important changes in hematologic and biochemical profiles were seen with either drug . eleven patients , 7 receiving lisinopril and 4 receiving atenolol , were withdrawn because of adverse experiences ; another 3 patients defaulted during treatment , 1 in the lisinopril group and 2 in the atenolol group . both drugs were well-tolerated and are therefore suitable for first-line therapy in essential hypertension . 
hemodynamic effects of renin inhibition by enalkiren in chronic congestive heart failure . previous efforts to block the renin-angiotensin system in patients with chronic congestive heart failure ( chf ) have focused on 2 distal sites in the system , the angiotensin-converting enzyme and the angiotensin ii receptor . recent work , however , has led to the development of agents that directly inhibit renin , the proximal step in the cascade . in this study , we investigated the hemodynamic effects of renin inhibition in 9 patients with chronic chf by using enalkiren , a primate-selective , dipeptide renin inhibitor , which has been previously shown to suppress plasma renin activity and to lower blood pressure in hypertensive patients . the acute intravenous administration of enalkiren ( 1.0 mg/kg ) produced increases in cardiac index ( 2.0 + / - 0.3 to 2.3 + / - 0.1 liter/min/m2 ) and stroke volume index ( 26 + / - 3 to 34 + / - 4 ml/m2 ) and decreases in left ventricular filling pressure ( 31 + / - 3 to 25 + / - 3 mm hg ) , mean right atrial pressure ( 15 + / - 1 to 13 + / - 2 mm hg ) , heart rate ( 78 + / - 5 to 72 + / - 6 beats/min ) and systemic vascular resistance ( 2,199 + / - 594 to 1,339 + / - 230 dynes.s.cm-5 ) ( all p less than 0.01 to 0.05 ) . these observations indicate that renin inhibition produces hemodynamic benefits in patients with chronic chf and could potentially provide a novel approach to interfering with the renin-angiotensin system in patients with this disorder . 
effects of bucindolol on neurohormonal activation in congestive heart failure . to examine the effects of beta-adrenergic blockade on neurohormonal activation in patients with congestive heart failure , 15 men had assessments of hemodynamics and supine peripheral renin and norepinephrine levels before and after 3 months of oral therapy with bucindolol , a nonselective beta antagonist . at baseline , plasma renin activity did not correlate with any hemodynamic parameter . however , norepinephrine levels had a weak correlation with left ventricular end-diastolic pressure ( r = 0.74 , p less than 0.01 ) , stroke volume index ( r = 0.61 , p less than 0.02 ) and pulmonary vascular resistance ( r = 0.54 , p less than 0.05 ) . plasma renin decreased with bucindolol therapy , from 11.6 + / - 13.4 to 4.3 + / - 4.1 ng/ml/hour ( mean + / - standard deviation ; p less than 0.05 ) , whereas plasma norepinephrine was unchanged , from 403 + / - 231 to 408 + / - 217 pg/ml . a wide diversity of the norepinephrine response to bucindolol was observed with reduction of levels in some patients and elevation in others . although plasma norepinephrine did not decrease , heart rate tended to decrease ( from 82 + / - 20 vs 73 + / - 11 min-1 , p = 0.059 ) with beta-adrenergic blockade , suggesting neurohormonal antagonism at the receptor level . no changes in i-123 metaiodobenzylguanidine uptake occurred after bucindolol therapy , suggesting unchanged adrenergic uptake of norepinephrine with beta-blocker therapy . despite reductions in plasma renin activity and the presence of beta blockade , the response of renin or norepinephrine levels to long-term bucindolol therapy did not predict which patients had improved in hemodynamic status ( chi-square = 0.37 for renin , 0.82 for norepinephrine ) . 
outcomes of direct coronary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction in candidates and non-candidates for thrombolytic therapy . coronary angioplasty without prior thrombolytic therapy was performed in 383 patients with acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) . patients were divided into 2 groups depending on whether they were candidates or non-candidates for thrombolytic therapy . patients were not considered thrombolytic candidates if they : ( 1 ) presented in cardiogenic shock , ( 2 ) were greater than or equal to 75 years of age , ( 3 ) had had coronary artery bypass surgery or , ( 4 ) had a reperfusion time of greater than 6 hours . thrombolytic and nonthrombolytic candidates had similar rates of reperfusion ( 92 vs 88 % ) , nonfatal reinfarction ( 6.0 vs 5.9 % ) and recurrent myocardial ischemia ( 1.8 vs 0 % ) . thrombolytic candidates had a lower mortality rate ( 3.9 vs 24 % , p less than 0.0001 ) and a lower incidence of bleeding ( 4.6 vs 10.9 % , p less than 0.05 ) . improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction at follow-up angiography was 4.4 % in thrombolytic and 10.5 % in nonthrombolytic candidates ( p less than 0.002 ) . ejection fraction improved most in patients with anterior wall ami ( 7.7 % in thrombolytic candidates , 15.1 % in nonthrombolytic candidates ) and in patients with reperfusion times greater than 6 hours ( 14.2 % ) . these outcomes suggest that direct coronary angioplasty is a viable alternative method of reperfusion in patients with ami who are candidates for thrombolytic therapy . nonthrombolytic candidates are a high-risk group of patients . direct coronary angioplasty may be beneficial in certain subgroups , especially for patients in cardiogenic shock and for patients presenting greater than 6 hours after the onset of chest pain with evidence of ongoing ischemia . 
blood rheology after cardiac valve replacement with mechanical prostheses or bioprostheses . arterial thromboembolism is a serious complication in patients after heart valve replacement . abnormalities in blood rheology may contribute to this complication . therefore , the aim of this study was to compare various determinants of blood rheology in patients with substitute heart valves with those in healthy controls ; furthermore , differences between patients with mechanical valves and those with bioprostheses should be investigated . the hemorrheologic determinants -- fibrinogen , plasma viscosity , red cell aggregation , hematocrit and platelet aggregation -- were studied in 92 patients with mechanical bileaflet valves , in 28 patients with bioprostheses and in 29 control subjects ; the time since valve replacement was greater than or equal to 9 months . fibrinogen , plasma viscosity , red cell and spontaneous platelet aggregation were found to be increased in all patients after heart valve replacement compared with normal subjects ( fibrinogen : 348 + / - 87 vs 267 + / - 66 mg/dl , p less than 0.01 ; plasma viscosity : 1.71 + / - 0.1 vs 1.66 + / - 0.1 mpas , p less than 0.05 ; red cell aggregation : 9.9 + / - 2 vs 7.8 + / - 2 u , p less than 0.01 ; platelet aggregation : 22 + / - 15 vs 13 + / - 13 % , p less than 0.01 ) ; among patients , fibrinogen , plasma viscosity and spontaneous platelet aggregation were higher in mechanical valves than in bioprostheses ( fibrinogen : 359 + / - 95 vs 314 + / - 41 mg/dl , p less than 0.01 ; plasma viscosity : 1.72 + / - 0.1 vs 1.68 + / - 0.1 mpas , p less than 0.1 ; platelet aggregation : 23 + / - 15 vs 16 + / - 11 % ; p less than 0.05 ) , whereas no difference could be found for red cell aggregation ( 9.7 + / - 2 vs 10.5 + / - 2 % , p greater than 0.05 ) . 
etiology and pathophysiology of pyelonephritis . escherichia coli is the most frequent cause of pyelonephritis . its possible virulence factors include the ability to adhere and colonize the urinary tract , an important initiating factor in all urinary tract infections ( utis ) . the importance of p fimbriae in this adhesion is stressed and the evidence for its importance in pyelonephritis is presented in epidemiologic studies of patients , as well as in animal studies . it appears that both host receptor density and the nonsecretor state is responsible for susceptibility to urinary tract infection . vesicoureteral reflux can be responsible for ascending upper tract infection , but infection with p-fimbriated e coli may lead to ascending pyelonephritis without reflux because of the paralytic effect of lipid a on ureteral peristaltic activity . renal ischemia leads to renal damage following infection by reperfusion damage due to the release of superoxide . experimentally , this ischemic damage can be prevented by allopurinol , a xanthine oxidase inhibitor . the acute inflammatory response can produce renal damage because of the respiratory burst of phagocytosis , which while killing phagocytosed bacteria also damages renal tubules . an amelioration of the inflammatory response by treatment with superoxide dismutase or corticosteroids has been shown to modulate renal damage . vaccination with p fimbriae has been shown experimentally to prevent the initiation of the disease . however , since vaccines are not clinically available , the clinical and animal studies on therapy of acute disease are stressed . acute pyelonephritis during the first 3 years of life more often produced the renal damage that could lead to end-stage renal disease . 
effect of hemodialysis on protein c , protein s , and antithrombin iii levels . we studied the effect of hemodialysis on natural coagulation inhibitors including protein c ( pc ) , protein s ( ps ) , and antithrombin iii ( at iii ) , as well as the correlations between the antigen level ( immunological activity ) and functional activity of individual coagulation inhibitor . plasma at iii , ps , and pc were measured in 20 uremic patients on maintenance hemodialysis immediately before , during , and after dialysis treatment . these values were compared with those obtained from 20 matched healthy controls . plasma pc and total ps antigen levels were measured by enzyme immunoassay . the plasma at iii antigen level was determined by laurell rocket immunoelectrophoresis . functional activities of pc and at iii were determined by the amidolytic method . free ps antigen level was quantitated by measuring the free ps-related antigen after the sample was treated with polyethylene glycol to remove the c4b-binding protein . uremic patients on maintenance hemodialysis had a higher total ps antigen level , but a lower free ps antigen level compared with the controls . both the antigen level and functional activity of at iii in uremic patients were significantly lower than those of controls . their predialysis plasma pc antigen level and functional activity were not different from those of normal controls . a significant correlation between the antigen level and functional activity of pc , ps , and at iii was demonstrated in healthy controls , but not in hemodialysis patients . no significant change in the level of at iii or ps was observed with hemodialysis , but a progressive increase of functional activity of pc was documented with hemodialysis . furthermore , the coefficient of correlation between the antigen level and functional activity of pc improved significantly with dialysis treatment . 
effect of a calcium-entry blocker , nicardipine , on intrarenal hemodynamics in essential hypertension . the effects of a calcium-entry blocker , nicardipine , on intrarenal hemodynamics were studied in essential hypertension . a 4-week study was performed in eight patients with essential hypertension who were given a regular sodium diet in the first and third weeks , and a sodium-restricted diet in the second and fourth weeks . nicardipine , 60 mg/d , was administered in the third and fourth weeks . the urinary sodium excretion rate ( unav ) was plotted on the y-axis against the mean arterial pressure ( map ) on the x-axis before and after the administration of nicardipine . assuming the difference between map and the x-intercept of this renal function curve represents the effective filtration pressure across the glomerular capillaries , the intrarenal hemodynamics such as afferent arteriolar resistance ( ra ) and efferent arteriolar resistances ( re ) , glomerular pressure ( pg ) , and gross filtration coefficient ( kfg ) were calculated . although the map on regular salt diet was lowered from 125 + / - 3 to 109 + / - 2 mm hg by nicardipine , neither the renal blood flow rate ( rbf ) ( 670 + / - 40 ml/min ) nor the glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) ( 79 + / - 2 ml/min ) was altered . the ra was estimated to be reduced from 9,300 + / - 900 to 7,400 + / - 700 dyne.s.cm-5 ( p less than 0.01 ) , while no changes were noted in re ( 4,900 + / - 400 dyne.s.cm-5 ) , pg ( 50 + / - 1 mm hg ) , or kfg ( 0.180 + / - 0.041 [ ml/s ] / mm hg ) . essential hypertension has been characterized by a prominent increase in ra , resulting in maintenance of normal pg . this ca-entry blocker worked to normalize intrarenal hemodynamics in essential hypertension by dilating afferent arterioles alone . 
twelve-year incidence of coronary heart disease in middle-aged adults during the era of hypertensive therapy : the framingham offspring study [ published erratum appears in am j med 1991 apr ; 90 ( 4 ) :537 ] purpose : to provide information on the incidence of coronary heart disease ( chd ) in the offspring of the original cohort from the framingham heart study . patients and methods : from 1972 to 1974 , offspring of the original participants in the framingham heart study underwent a baseline examination for standard cardiovascular risk factors . at entry into the study , these offspring were 30 to 59 years old and free of chd . they were followed for 12 years , during which time 156 of 1,663 men and 55 of 1,714 women developed chd . results : in a multivariate proportional hazards model , chd was significantly associated with age , lower high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( hdl-c ) levels , and number of cigarettes smoked . fasting glucose levels and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( ldl-c ) were highly associated with chd in men , but borderline in women , while triglycerides and very-low-density lipoprotein cholesterol were not significantly associated with chd after adjustment for hdl-c and glucose . blood pressure medication was used in half of the hypertensive individuals , and systolic pressure was associated with chd in women only . conclusions : this study confirms the importance of the common chd risk factors of cigarette smoking and ldl-c , and extends the prognostic role of hdl-c in a middle-aged cohort . the impact of blood pressure , with or without use of hypertensive medications , was reduced in this study , and the data suggest that this attenuation was due to successful treatment . 
furosemide-131i-hippuran renography after angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition for the diagnosis of renovascular hypertension . purpose : we have previously demonstrated the greater sensitivity of 131i-hippuran renography than 99mtc-dtpa scintigraphy to diagnose renovascular hypertension ( rvh ) . this study assesses the predictive diagnostic value of furosemide-131i-hippuran renography after angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibition in patients with and without rvh . patients and methods : all patients were investigated at the university of miami/jackson memorial medical center . twenty-eight patients had rvh and 22 did not . twenty-eight patients had normal or minimally decreased renal function ( serum creatinine level 1.5 mg/dl or less ) and 22 had renal insufficiency ( serum creatinine level 1.8 mg/dl or more ) . renography was performed 60 minutes after oral administration of 50 mg captopril or 10 minutes after intravenous injection of 40 micrograms/kg enalaprilat . forty milligrams of furosemide were administered intravenously 2 minutes after injection of 131i-hippuran . the residual cortical activity ( rca ) of 131i-hippuran was measured at 20 minutes . results : rvh was unlikely when rca after ace inhibition was less than 30 % of peak cortical activity . conversely , rvh was present when 131i-hippuran cortical activity steadily increased throughout the test to reach 100 % at 20 minutes . in azotemic patients with rca between 31 % and 100 % , rvh was differentiated from intrinsic renal disease by obtaining a baseline renogram without ace inhibition and comparing rca in that study and rca after ace inhibition . if rca increased ( indicating worsening renal function ) after ace inhibition , rvh was likely ; whereas , intrinsic renal disease was more likely if rca remained unchanged or decreased ( indicating improved renal function ) with ace inhibition . the test had a specificity of 95 % and a sensitivity of 96 % in this population . there was a direct correlation between the results of angioplasty or surgery on high blood pressure and the changes in rca before and after intervention ( n = 20 ) . conclusion : furosemide-131i-hippuran renography with ace inhibition is highly predictive in identifying patients with rvh . 
captopril renography in the diagnosis of renal artery stenosis : accuracy and limitations . purpose : the purpose of this study was to determine the sensitivity , specificity , and clinical usefulness of renography performed in combination with captopril administration ( " captopril renography " ) in diagnosing renal artery stenosis . patients and methods : fifty-five patients with suspected renal artery stenosis underwent renography prior to performance of renal angiography . renography was performed on two consecutive days using technetium-99m-diethylenetiamine pentaacetic acid ( dtpa ) as an index of glomerular filtration rate and iodine-131-orthoiodohippurate ( oih ) as an index of renal blood flow . captopril ( 25 mg orally , crushed ) was administered 1 hour before the second study . renal artery stenosis was defined as a stenosis exceeding 70 % . renographic criteria were then established , retrospectively , to differentiate renal artery stenosis from essential hypertension based on ( 1 ) asymmetry of function and ( 2 ) the presence of captopril-induced changes . results : renal artery stenosis was detected in 35 of 55 patients ( 21 with unilateral and 14 with bilateral stenosis ) . three criteria were established for diagnosing renal artery stenosis : ( 1 ) a percent uptake of dtpa by the affected kidney of less than 40 % of the combined bilateral uptake , ( 2 ) a delayed time to peak uptake of dtpa , which was more than 5 minutes longer in the affected kidney than in the contralateral kidney , ( 3 ) a delayed excretion of dtpa , with retention at 15 minutes , as a fraction of peak activity , more than 20 % greater than in the contralateral kidney . the presence of one or more of these criteria was diagnostic of renal artery stenosis , with a sensitivity and specificity of 71 % and 75 % , respectively before captopril administration , and 94 % and 95 % after captopril administration . lesser degrees of asymmetry ( i.e. , uptake of 40 % to 50 % ) had very poor diagnostic specificity . among patients with bilateral stenoses , asymmetry identified the more severely affected kidney , but the presence or absence of stenosis in the contralateral kidney could not be reliably determined . when pre - and post-captopril studies were compared , the presence of captopril-induced scintigraphic changes was a highly specific finding for renal artery stenosis , but occurred in only 51 % of the cases . oih scintigraphy provided similar results , with slightly lower sensitivity and specificity . conclusion : asymmetry of dtpa uptake , time to peak uptake , or retention seen on a single post-captopril renogram is a highly sensitive and specific finding in detecting renal artery stenosis but does not distinguish unilateral from bilateral disease . if renograms are obtained both before and after captopril administration , the presence of captopril-induced change is a highly specific finding for the detection of renal artery stenosis , but the sensitivity of this finding is low . 
infusion of a stable prostacyclin analogue , iloprost , to patients with peripheral vascular disease : lack of antiplatelet effect but risk of thromboembolism . purpose : prostacyclin , a potent inhibitor of platelet function and vasodilator , has been used to treat peripheral vascular disease . the aim of this study was to monitor the thrombotic status of patients treated by infusion of a stable prostacyclin analogue , iloprost . patients and methods : thirteen patients with peripheral vascular disease underwent iloprost infusion for 3 days ( 8 hours each day ) in a dose ranging from 0.5 to 2 ng/kg/minute . variable parameters of thrombosis such as platelet reactivity ( shear-induced hemostatic plug formation and thrombus formation on a collagen fiber ) , coagulation , and spontaneous thrombolysis ( dislodgment of hemostatic plugs ) were measured from non-anticoagulated blood samples by hemostatometry immediately before and 1 hour after the infusion and on the last day , 4 hours after initiation of the infusion . results : analysis of data from all patients 1 hour after the infusion showed no changes in platelet reactivity and spontaneous thrombolysis , but coagulation was significantly enhanced . in four patients , significant platelet hyperreactivity was observed after the infusion . four of the five patients tested while undergoing iloprost infusion showed an enhanced thrombotic reaction and markedly enhanced coagulation . iloprost employed in vitro in a concentration that corresponds to the therapeutic peak blood level caused no inhibition of platelet function but significantly enhanced coagulation . the threshold in vitro iloprost concentration at which anti-platelet effect and increased spontaneous thrombolysis were observed was twice that of the therapeutic blood level . conclusions : these findings challenge the view that antagonism of platelet function is an important factor of iloprost therapy . furthermore , platelet hyperreactivity in some patients and markedly enhanced coagulation during and after infusion of iloprost in general , represent a risk of thromboembolism , especially as patients are already in a prethrombotic condition . 
the effects of indomethacin and a beta-sympathomimetic agent on the fetal ductus arteriosus during treatment of premature labor : a randomized double-blind study . to study the effect of maternal indomethacin or nylidrine hydrochloride treatment on the fetus ductus arteriosus and the pulmonary artery , 27 women with threatened preterm labor between 24 and 34 weeks ' gestation were studied by echocardiography . fourteen women were treated with indomethacin and 13 with nylidrin . both systolic and diastolic velocities in the ductus increased after administration of indomethacin indicating constriction in nine fetuses , and exceeded the corresponding velocities in the fetuses of the nylidrin group ( p = 0.001 ) . however , there were no changes in pulmonary artery flow velocities ( p greater than 0.5 ) . in the indomethacin group , there was a significant linear positive relationship between the gestational age and the change in ductal flow velocity . three of the nine patients with ductal constriction also had tricuspid regurgitation . these findings indicate that indomethacin , not nylidrin , causes transient constriction of the ductus arteriosus and the constrictive response increases with the gestational age . we recommend echocardiographic surveillance of fetal hemodynamics when prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors are used in the treatment of spontaneous preterm labor . 
a risk-benefit analysis of elective bilateral oophorectomy : effect of changes in compliance with estrogen therapy on outcome . a bilateral oophorectomy at the time of elective hysterectomy is often performed to prevent ovarian cancer . the assumption that endogenous estrogen can be easily replaced with supplemental medication fosters the decision for routine oophorectomy . published reports on the use of postmenopausal estrogen indicate that compliance is less than perfect . this fact could affect the overall outcome . decision analysis techniques with markov cohort modeling were used to evaluate the policy of elective bilateral oophorectomy . results from studies judged methodologically sound were combined to determine values representing the influence of estrogen on coronary heart disease , breast cancer , and osteoporotic fracture . the decision tree also explicitly incorporated patient compliance . when compliance with estrogen therapy is assumed to be perfect , oophorectomy yields longer life expectancy than retaining the ovaries . when actual drug-taking behavior is considered , retaining the ovaries results in longer survival . this analysis highlights the importance of including the effects of patient compliance with treatment recommendations when the impact of a health policy decision such as prophylactic surgery is assessed . 
alterations in collateral blood flow produced by isoflurane in a chronically instrumented canine model of multivessel coronary artery disease . the actions of isoflurane and adenosine on left ventricular myocardial perfusion during a total occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery and concomitant stenosis of the left circumflex coronary artery were investigated in dogs chronically instrumented for measurement of systemic and coronary hemodynamics , regional myocardial contractile function ( via ultrasonic sonomicrometers ) , and myocardial blood flow ( via the radioactive microsphere technique ) . an ameroid constrictor was implanted on the left circumflex coronary artery to produce a slowly progressive stenosis that gradually depleted the coronary reserve of the distal vascular bed . the reductions in reserve were evaluated by daily measurement of baseline left circumflex coronary blood flow velocity and the hyperemic response to injection of adenosine . at a stage of moderate or severe left circumflex stenosis development , the left anterior descending coronary artery was totally occluded via a hydraulic occluder to simulate multivessel coronary artery disease , and control measurements of hemodynamics , regional contractile function , and myocardial blood flow were completed . in separate groups of experiments , either adenosine ( 0.64 and 1.28 mg/min ) or isoflurane ( 1.6-1 .8 and 2.3-2 .5 % , end-tidal ) was administered and measurements remade during steady state hemodynamic conditions . finally , diastolic aortic pressure and heart rate were adjusted to levels present in the control state during administration of adenosine or isoflurane , and additional measurements were recorded . isoflurane reduced mean arterial pressure , left ventricular systolic pressure , and the rate of increase of left ventricular pressure at 50 mmhg ( positive dp/dt50 ) without change in heart rate . administration of isoflurane decreased blood flow in normal , stenotic , and occluded regions ; however , when arterial pressure and heart rate were restored to levels present in the conscious state , myocardial perfusion in all regions was maintained at control levels . ratios of flow between occluded and normal or stenotic zones remained unchanged from the conscious state during a constant aortic pressure and heart rate . similar results were obtained in dogs with either a moderate or severe left circumflex coronary artery stenosis . in contrast , adenosine produced a dose-related decrease in collateral flow and occluded-to-normal or occluded-to-stenotic zone flow ratio . the results of this investigation indicate that adenosine but not isoflurane redistributes blood flow away from collateral-dependent myocardium to other regions in a chronically instrumented canine model of multivessel coronary artery disease . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
protamine-heparin-induced pulmonary hypertension in pigs : effects of treatment with a thromboxane receptor antagonist on hemodynamics and coagulation . adverse hemodynamic reactions after protamine neutralization of heparin are an infrequent but important clinical problem . pre-treatment of swine with a thromboxane a2 receptor antagonist has been reported to prevent the pulmonary hypertensive response occasionally seen after protamine reversal of heparin anticoagulation . in the current study , a control group of pigs ( n = 9 ) received intravenous heparin ( 300 iu/kg ) , followed after 10 min by a neutralizing dose of protamine ( 3 mg/kg ) . a treatment group of pigs ( n = 11 ) was treated identically , except that the thromboxane a2 receptor antagonist l-670596 ( 2 mg/kg ) was infused intravenously 2 min after the protamine infusion . hemodynamic and coagulation profiles were monitored during these procedures . pulmonary hypertension developed and reached a peak within 2 min of protamine administration , often at the same time that l-670596 was administered in the treatment group . there was no statistical difference between control and treatment groups ' peak pulmonary arterial pressure and peak pulmonary vascular resistance . however , the interval for return of mean pulmonary artery pressure from peak to baseline values was 11.6 + / - 3.1 versus 5.5 + / - 1.9 min ( mean + / - sd ) for control and treatment groups , respectively ( p less than 0.01 ) . thromboxane b2 plasma concentrations increased in both groups and were correlated with the pulmonary hypertensive response ( r = 0.86 , p less than 0.01 ) . platelet aggregation to collagen was inhibited by the thromboxane a2 receptor antagonist ( p less than 0.05 ) . bleeding time was prolonged beyond normal range in 50 % of l-670596-treated pigs . all other coagulation tests in both groups returned to baseline after reversal of heparin with protamine and were unaffected by l-670596 . 
coronary and left ventricular hemodynamic responses following reversal of flunitrazepam-induced sedation with flumazenil in patients with coronary artery disease . the effects of reversal of flunitrazepam-induced sedation with flumazenil on coronary hemodynamics , myocardial oxygen consumption ( mvo2 ) , and left ventricular ( lv ) performance were investigated , in a double-blind trial , in 12 patients with stable coronary artery disease undergoing cardiac catheterization . coronary sinus blood flow was measured by continuous thermodilution . arterial and coronary sinus blood were analyzed for oxygen and lactate contents . the determinants of lv performance were obtained from the cardiac output measured by thermodilution and from left heart catheterization data . to reverse flunitrazepam-induced sedation , patients were randomly allocated to receive placebo or flumazenil ( by increment , up to 1 mg ) at the end of procedure . in the placebo group , no significant hemodynamic changes were observed . in the flumazenil group , heart rate , cardiac index , maximum velocity of shortening , and relaxation time constant were not significantly altered . by contrast , mean aortic pressure and lv end-diastolic pressure ( baselines : 90 + / - 5 and 7.3 + / - 4.1 mmhg , respectively ) increased ( 9 % , p less than 0.05 and 67 % , p less than 0.05 , respectively ) after flumazenil administration , but these changes represented mainly a return toward presedation values . mvo2 and coronary resistance were not significantly altered , whereas csbf increased slightly ( baseline : 119 + / - 20 ml/min ; increase 10 % , p less than 0.05 ) . no electrocardiographic evidence of myocardial ischemia was observed during the study . these data show that reversal of benzodiazepine effects with flumazenil is not associated with a major alteration of lv systolic function , relaxation , or coronary hemodynamics in patients with coronary artery disease . nevertheless , it should be cautiously used when lv end-diastolic pressure is increased at the time of its administration . 
hexamethonium and midazolam terminate dysrhythmias and hypertension caused by intracerebroventricular bupivacaine in rabbits . previous studies have demonstrated that bupivacaine administered directly into the central nervous system ( cns ) is capable of producing signs of bupivacaine cardiovascular toxicity . to investigate the mechanisms by which bupivacaine may act within the cns to produce cardiovascular toxicity , we studied four groups of halothane-anesthetized rabbits in which infusion of intracerebroventricular ( icv ) bupivacaine or intravenous ( iv ) phenylephrine resulted in dysrhythmias and hypertension . in group 1 ( n = 5 ) , icv bupivacaine ( 500 + / - 79 micrograms [ mean + / - sem ] ) produced dysrhythmias lasting 73 + / - 13 min , whereas icv saline caused no dysrhythmias or hypertension . in group 2 ( n = 9 ) , icv bupivacaine-induced hypertension and dysrhythmias were abolished by icv midazolam in 4.4 + / - 0.6 min , and when dysrhythmias and hypertension recurred ( 22 + / - 0.9 min ) , hexamethonium ( 10 mg/kg iv ) promptly terminated dysrhythmias and hypertension ( 14 + / - 1 s ) . in group 3 ( n = 10 ) , icv bupivacaine-induced dysrhythmias and hypertension were not affected by increasing the inspired halothane concentration from 0.8 to 1.6 % . in group 4 ( n = 6 ) , iv phenylephrine-induced dysrhythmias and hypertension were not affected by icv midazolam . these results suggest that icv bupivacaine produces dysrhythmias and hypertension by increasing autonomic nervous system ( ans ) outflow from the brain stem . the finding that peripheral autonomic blockade by hexamethonium rapidly terminated dysrhythmias and hypertension supports this mechanism . we speculate that icv bupivacaine produces an increase in autonomic outflow by blockade of the inhibitory gamma-aminobutyric acid ( gaba ) neurons that are known to be the principal tonic inhibitors of the ans . 
a positron emission tomographic comparison of pulmonary vascular permeability during the adult respiratory distress syndrome and pneumonia . we measured extravascular density ( evd ) and the pulmonary transcapillary escape rate ( ptcer ) for 68ga-transferrin using positron emission tomography in 14 normal volunteers and 29 patients with radiographic infiltrates , including six patients with congestive heart failure ( chf ) , eight patients with the adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) , and 15 patients with focal pneumonia . contralateral , radiographically normal regions were also evaluated in the patients with focal pneumonia . mean evd was elevated in the patients with chf , ards , and pneumonia in regions of radiographic infiltrate compared with values from normal subjects ( p less than 0.05 ) , but it was not significantly different among the three patient groups . ptcer in normal subjects and in patients with chf was not significantly different ( 21 + / - 11 versus 44 + / - 16 x 10 ( -4 ) min-1 , respectively , p = ns ) . ptcer was elevated in regions of infiltrate because of either pneumonia ( 173 + / - 99 ) or ards ( 170 + / - 79 ) . ptcer was also elevated in regions contralateral to those with focal infiltrate during pneumonia , even though these regions were radiographically normal and had normal evd values . these results suggest that ptcer is a sensitive but nonspecific index of abnormal pulmonary vascular permeability , which may be useful for classifying patients in clinical studies of pulmonary edema . 
morphometry of the subepithelial circulation in sheep airways . effect of vascular congestion . in order to quantitate the subepithelial microvascular volume and its relation to the airway lumen , we conducted a morphometric analysis of the vascular compartment in the wall of the trachea ( within a 55-microns depth from the epithelial basement membrane ) and of 1.0 and 0.5-mm bronchioles of sheep . the lungs were fixed by bronchial and pulmonary artery perfusion with glutaraldehyde under three experimental conditions : ( 1 ) bronchial artery pressure , 100 mm hg pulmonary artery pressure , 20 mm hg ( control ) ; ( 2 ) bronchial artery pressure , 100 mm hg , pulmonary artery pressure , 40 mm hg ( pulmonary hypertension , ph ) ; ( 3 ) bronchial artery pressure , 100 mm hg , pulmonary artery pressure , 40 mm hg ( pharmacologic vasodilation with sodium nitroprusside , ph + v ) . venous pressures were atmospheric . under control conditions , the microvascular volume fraction comprised 12 , 16 , and 15 % of the subepithelial tissue in the trachea and 1-mm and 0.5-mm bronchioles , respectively . ph increased the microvascular volume fraction in the bronchioles ( p less than 0.05 ) , but it had no effect on the microvasculature in the trachea . ph + v approximately doubled the microvascular volume fraction in the trachea and the bronchioles . ph increased the mean wall thickness , and ph and ph + v decreased the airway cross-sectional area in the 1-mm bronchioles . these observations demonstrate that the microvasculature constitutes a considerable volume fraction of the subepithelial airway tissue and that vascular congestion can narrow the bronchiolar lumen . 
estimating left ventricular filling pressure during positive end-expiratory pressure in humans . in the critically ill , accurate measurements of left ventricular ( lv ) filling pressure using pulmonary artery occlusion pressure ( ppao ) are important for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes . in patients receiving positive end-expiratory pressure ( peep ) , ppao may not reflect lv filling pressure because of elevated pericardial pressure ( ppc ) . it has been proposed that in humans , ppc and right atrial pressure ( pra ) are equal , so that referencing ppao to pra may improve the assessment of lv filling pressure when ppc is elevated . similarly , it has also been shown in the dog that nadir ppao immediately after airway disconnection from peep ( nadir ppao ) , accurately reflects lv filling pressure when lv filling pressure is greater than or equal to 10 mm hg . we examined methods of estimating lv filling pressure using ppao measurements under conditions in which increases in ppc were the primary determinants of differences in the two measurements . using left atrial pressure ( pla ) relative to ppc , called transmural pla ( platm ) , as lv filling pressure , we compared the accuracy of ppao , nadir ppao , and ppao relative to pra to reflect platm in 15 postoperative cardiac surgery patients in whom an air-filled pericardial balloon catheter and a left atrial catheter were inserted during surgery . peep was sequentially increased from zero to 15 cm h2o . we found that pra always exceeded ppc ( p less than 0.01 ) and increased less with peep than did ppc ( p less than 0.05 ) . at less than or equal to 5 cm h2o peep , both ppao and nadir ppao were similar to each other and to platm . 
surgery for thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms . from july 1985 to july 1989 , loma linda university medical center evaluated 46 thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms ( taaas ) . forty patients were taken to surgery -- 18 ( 45 % ) were operated on an emergency basis for reasons including rupture ( 12 patients , 30 % ) , dissection ( 5 patients , 12.5 % ) , and severe pain ( 1 patient ) . the overall mortality for all operated patients was five ( 12.5 % -17 % for emergency surgery versus 9 % for elective surgery ) . nonfatal complications occurred in 40 per cent of patients ( 16 ) . the overall incidence of paraplegia was 10 per cent ( 4/40 ) , emergency patients 17 per cent ( 3/18 ) versus elective patients 4.5 per cent ( 1/22 ) . careful preoperative evaluation , standardization of operative technique , and good postoperative management have improved the outlook for these patients who otherwise would progress to eventual rupture and death . because mortality and morbidity are substantially reduced in elective patients , we recommend that all patients with taaas be evaluated for surgery as soon as diagnosis is made . 
sinistral ( left-sided ) portal hypertension . between 1953 and 1988 , 21 patients with splenic vein thrombosis ( svt ) , 12 of whom had sinistral portal hypertension ( sph ) were treated at our institution . svt was identified at autopsy in nine patients . twelve additional patients presented with sph : bleeding esophageal varices , svt and normal hepatic function . svt was caused by pancreatic neoplasm ( 5 ) , chronic pancreatitis ( 5 ) , and pancreatic pseudocyst ( 2 ) . svt was diagnosed by splanchnic angiography , splenoportography , computerized tomography , and ultrasonography . gastric varices were diagnosed by endoscopy ( 10 ) and barium swallow ( 2 ) . splenectomy was performed as primary therapy in 10 patients . three of these 10 had en block distal pancreatectomy . two high-risk patients had splenic artery embolization , one as a prelude to splenectomy performed 48 hours later and the other as definitive therapy . one splenectomized patient continued to bleed . no further bleeding occurred in 10 splenectomized patients in follow-up from 1 week to 14 years . sinistral portal hypertension is a clinical syndrome of splenic vein thrombosis caused by pancreatic pathology and manifests as bleeding gastric varices in patients with a patent portal vein and normal hepatic function . splanchnic arteriography is necessary for accurate diagnosis . splenectomy is the effective treatment of choice . 
carotid artery disease in patients with head and neck carcinoma . irradiation has been shown experimentally to cause accelerated development of atherosclerosis in exposed large arteries . however , occurrence of such an entity in carotid arteries of patients after treatment for head and neck carcinoma is unknown . therefore , we reviewed 179 patient charts who had undergone head and neck operations with or without irradiation between 1979-1987 . of these 179 patients , 107 ( 59.8 % ) were dead at time of follow-up . cause of death was unknown in 42 ( 40 % ) patients ; in the remainder included : respiratory arrest -- 33 ; carcinoma-related -- 18 ; cardiac -- 6 ; pneumonia -- 7 ; and trauma -- 1 . average interval from treatment to death was 23.5 months . of the 72 patients known to be alive , follow-up was obtained in 52 patients . their average age was 64.9 years . risk factors for atherosclerosis included : male gender -- 43 ; smoking -- 50 ; hypertension -- 9 ; diabetes -- 4 ; coronary artery disease -- 12 ; and peripheral vascular disease -- 4 . seventy-five per cent of these patients received postoperative irradiation . average follow-up was 64.5 months . duplex scans were performed on 34 patients . three patients had common or internal carotid stenoses greater than 75 per cent . all of these patients had received irradiation and none of them were symptomatic . seven patients had carotid stenoses between 50 to 75 per cent ; five of these had received irradiation . of these five patients , one had a stroke 60 months postoperatively , and one had a tia 36 months postoperatively . the remaining 58 patients ( of which 48 had irradiation ) had carotid stenoses less than 50 per cent and none were symptomatic . 
left atrial to femoral arterial bypass using the biomedicus pump for operations of the thoracic aorta . left atrial to left femoral arterial bypass is an approach to operations of the thoracic aorta dating back to the late 1950s . since that time , various modifications of the basic bypass circuit have evolved . in addition , temporary bypass shunts have also been described in a variety of positions . the goals of bypass of the thoracic aorta regardless of the technique include prevention of distal hypoperfusion , which can lead to paraplegia , limb loss , multiple organ failure , and sometimes death . recently , there have been reports of the use of the biomedicus centrifugal pump in bypass circuits of the thoracic aorta . our series , as well as the success of others , using this variation of a traditional bypass circuit of the thoracic aorta , establishes the biopump 's capability of minimizing inherent complications in the bypass circuit . 
cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma . we report the cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma , using a retrospective review of 115 patients ' records obtained from tumor registry files . five patients were found to have biopsy-proved extramedullary plasmacytomas without extension from an underlying bony focus . twelve patients had ecchymoses without thrombocytopenia ; two of them had biopsy-proved amyloidosis . one patient presented with pyoderma gangrenosum and was subsequently diagnosed with multiple myeloma . the last patient initially presented with what clinically appeared to be leukocytoclastic vasculitis , and , in the course of a standard workup , he was diagnosed with multiple myeloma . these findings are discussed with regard to the current literature on the cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma . 
fibrin - and fibrinogen-related antigens in patients with venous disease and venous ulceration . abnormalities in systemic fibrinolysis have been implicated in the pathogenesis of venous ulceration . patients with venous disease have a prolonged euglobulin lysis time and elevated plasma fibrinogen levels , yet little is known about the metabolism of fibrinogen and fibrin in such patients . in this study , we have used a technique that involves electrophoresis and densitometric analysis of captured fibrin-related antigens to measure the concentration and proportions of the individual fibrin and fibrinogen degradation products in patients with venous disease of the lower extremity . as a group , patients with venous disease had markedly elevated levels of total fibrin-related antigen and d-dimer , the terminal degradation product of cross-linked fibrin . levels of d-monomer , the breakdown product of fibrinogen and non-cross-linked fibrin monomer , and a measure of fibrinogenolysis were normal in all patients . in patients with ulcers , the levels of d-dimer were disproportionately higher than expected from fibrin monomer levels . on an individual basis , significant elevations of d-dimer were present in six ( 55 % ) of the 11 patients with venous disease with ulcers and in three ( 43 % ) of the seven patients with venous disease without ulcers . we conclude that patients with venous disease have uniform evidence for enhanced fibrin formation , as evidenced by elevated levels of total fibrin-related antigen and d-dimer . this is regardless of whether the venous disease is accompanied by ulceration . 
quincke 's edema , revisited . angioneurotic edema involving the uvula is sometimes referred to as quincke 's edema . the term angioneurotic edema describes several closely related diseases manifested by recurrent , acute edema of the skin or mucosa . we report a case of uvular edema secondary to food allergy , treated successfully with steroids . a short review of angioneurotic edema and its management is also presented . 
effective endothelialization of polyurethane surfaces . response to shear stress and platelet adhesion . biomer and mitrathane are thromboresistant polyurethane ureas that are suitable for coating artificial valves . degeneration of the surface coatings , however , does occur over time , and in experimental animal studies adherent thrombi have been observed as a complication . in this study , morphometric techniques applied to scanning electron microscopy were used to assess whether vascular endothelial cells harvested from jugular veins of fetal lambs could be grown to confluence on these polyurethane surfaces , whether the monolayer would remain intact under conditions of shear stress ( 104 dynes/cm2 ) , and whether this would result in decreased platelet adherence of sheep platelets relative to nonendothelialized surfaces . the results have shown that both biomer and mitrathane could be endothelialized : 88.8 + / - 5.1 % of the biomer surface consisted of intact confluent endothelial cells , as did 95.45 + / - 1.7 % of the mitrathane surface . after 6 hr of shear stress , a significant reduction in this feature was observed ( p = 0.02 ) , but both materials still maintained a high percentage of confluent endothelial cells ( 78.65 % for biomer and 85.58 % for mitrathane ) . after 48 hr of shear stress , however , the percent confluence was similar to control values , which suggested new cell growth . endothelialized biomer compared with mitrathane had fewer adherent single platelets , or small or large aggregates ( p = 0.001 , p = 0.01 , and p = 0.05 , respectively ) ; this feature was not affected by shear stress . whereas endothelialization of the surface clearly decreased platelet adherence on mitrathane ( p = 0.01 ) , only a trend was seen with biomer . these studies therefore show that endothelialization of these polyurethane surfaces is feasible . 
the influence of dialysate sodium and variable ultrafiltration on fluid balance during hemodialysis . an important factor in the development of hypotension during hemodialysis ( hd ) is a decrease in blood volume , due to ultrafiltration ( uf ) and an insufficient refill of the intravascular compartment . this insufficient refill might be caused by a transcellular fluid shift from the extracellular to the intracellular compartment . we studied the influence of dialysate sodium concentration and uf rate on the refill rate , blood volume , intracellular ( icv ) and extracellular fluid volume ( ecv ) . three different hd strategies were studied in 15 patients : ( a ) conventional hd ( dialysate sodium 140 mmol/l ) ; ( b ) hd with a sodium profile ( 140-148 mmol/l ) ; and ( c ) hd with a sodium profile and a variable uf rate ( high-low uf rate ) . icv and ecv were measured by non-invasive conductivity measurements , blood volume was calculated from erythrocyte counts before and after treatment . blood volume decrease was most pronounced during conventional hd , due to insufficient refilling without a detectable transcellular fluid shift . the sum of the decrease in icv and evc was less than during ( b ) and ( c ) . the insufficient refill led to a higher prevalence of hypotension and cramps . the strategies ( b ) and ( c ) led to an significant and comparable transcellular fluid shift to the extracellular compartment . thus , the use of a sodium profile led to a better intravascular refill and clinical tolerance of hd . addition of a uf profile did not improve this any further . 
deterioration following delay in performing femoral angioplasty . it is not uncommon for a delay to occur between assessment arteriography and angioplasty attempt . we reviewed retrospectively the arteriograms of 61 patients where such a delay occurred to assess progression of superficial femoral artery ( sfa ) disease in this interval . a mean delay of 14.6 days ( range 2-60 days ) occurred between arteriogram and angioplasty attempt . arteriographic deterioration was found in six of 61 patients ( 9.8 % ) and in three this precluded angioplasty . of the six patients four had initial arteriography via the same side as the sfa disease whilst two had arteriography via the contralateral femoral approach . we discuss the aetiology of this phenomenon and suggestions are made to reduce its incidence . 
screening for hypercholesterolemia among canadians : how much will it cost ? [ published erratum appears in can med assoc j 1991 mar 1 ; 144 ( 5 ) :545 ] objective : to determine the cost of screening all canadians aged 30 years or more without coronary heart disease ( chd ) for hypercholesterolemia . data sources : the expected results of initial screening of the serum cholesterol level were estimated on the basis of 1986 canadian census data and the 1978 canada health survey . the results of repeat testing were estimated on the basis of data from the lipid research clinics prevalence study . lipid profile results were extrapolated from tests at the montreal general hospital 's clinical chemistry laboratory . laboratory costs and primary care practitioner costs were provided by the canadian society of clinical chemists and provincial fee schedules respectively . main results : among 12,479,356 canadians free of chd 48.7 % would be identified as being at high risk , 4.8 % would be identified as being at moderate risk , and 46.6 % would be reassured that their lipid risk for chd was low . the total cost of implementing the program in the first year would be $ 432 million to $ 561 million ( $ 325 million for laboratory tests and $ 107 million to $ 236 million for visits to primary care practitioners ) . conclusion : the substantial cost of implementing a nationwide screening program must be weighed against the expected benefits to ensure that the final result is both practical and economically feasible . 
increased extravascular lung water in patients with low pulmonary artery occlusion pressure after acute myocardial infarction . objective : to evaluate the clinical characteristics of increased extravascular lung water ( evlw ) in patients with low pulmonary artery occlusion pressure ( paop ) in the early phase of acute myocardial infarction . design : consecutive sample for descriptions of the clinical features of medical disorders . setting : a general medicine group practice in a university hospital . patients : sixteen patients with low paop ( less than 18 mm hg ) on the initial measurement obtained within 12 hr of chest pain onset . measurements and main results : evlw was measured by the thermal indocyanine green dye double-indicator dilution method . qrs score was obtained on hospital day 7 from the selvester 's qrs scoring system . eleven ( 69 % ) patients had increased evlw greater than 7 ml/kg despite low paop . evlw had no significant correlation with paop and the difference between plasma colloid osmotic pressure and paop , but did have a significant correlation with pulmonary vascular resistance index ( r2 = .31 , p less than .05 ) , and qrs score ( r2 = .45 , p less than .005 ) . conclusions : larger infarcts led to increased evlw even with low paop , and the accumulation of increased evlw around the small arterioles might have led to increased pulmonary vascular resistance . 
hemodynamic profiles of prostaglandin e1 , isoproterenol , prostacyclin , and nifedipine in experimental porcine pulmonary hypertension . background and methods : we compared the hemodynamic effects of four vasodilators in experimental embolic pulmonary hypertension in a randomized controlled trial , using nine pigs weighing 16 to 23 kg . after anesthesia induction and cannulation with arterial , central venous , and thermodilution output pulmonary artery catheters , animals were repetitively embolized with glass beads ( 60 to 160 mu ) in order to establish pulmonary hypertension ( pulmonary artery pressure [ pap ] doubled from baseline ) . prostaglandin e1 ( pge1 ) , isoproterenol , prostacyclin ( pgi2 ) , and nifedipine were compared at doses producing equivalent reduction in systemic bp . results : only pge1 and pgi2 decreased both pap and pulmonary vascular resistance ( pvr ) . pge1 decreased pap from 39 + / - 1 to 33 + / - 1 mm hg ; prostacyclin decreased pap from 38 + / - 1 to 31 + / - 1 mm hg and produced the largest increase in cardiac output ( qt ) . isoproterenol did not change pap , markedly increased heart rate ( 162 + / - 8 to 216 + / - 11 beats/min ) , and resulted in significant arrhythmias . nifedipine increased pvr from 1044 + / - 113 to 1125 + / - 100 dyne.sec.cm-5 and decreased qt . conclusions : vasodilators demonstrate unique hemodynamic drug profiles . isoproterenol infusion is characterized by tachycardia and arrhythmias . both pge1 and pgi2 effectively decrease pap and pvr . nifedipine depressed qt significantly in this glass-bead embolization model of acute pulmonary hypertension . 
effects of milrinone on pulmonary vasculature in normal dogs and in dogs with pulmonary hypertension . objective : to study the effects of milrinone on pulmonary vasculature . background : it has been suggested that bipyridines or their derivatives may have a selective pulmonary vasodilation effect . methods : preliminary study : milrinone administration to 12 normal dogs ( low dose [ bolus 75 micrograms/kg for 5 min followed by a continuous infusion at 0.75 micrograms/kg . min , n = 6 ] ; high dose [ bolus 150 micrograms/kg for 5 min followed by continuous infusion at 1.5 micrograms/kg . min , n = 6 ] ) . main study : milrinone administration to 18 dogs with pulmonary hypertension due to pulmonary embolism induced by a massive injection of autologous muscle cubes . the pulmonary hypertension dogs were divided into three groups : a ) group e ( n = 6 ) received embolization only , as control ; b ) group l ( n = 6 ) received low-dose milrinone ; and c ) group h ( n = 6 ) received high-dose milrinone , equivalent to the preliminary study group . hemodynamic measurements and blood samplings were obtained at baseline and at 15 , 30 , and 60 min after start of milrinone infusion . results : milrinone did not change mean pulmonary artery pressure ( mpap ) in normal dogs . milrinone decreased mpap significantly in dogs with pulmonary hypertension . pulmonary vascular resistance index remained at an almost constant level in normal dogs , but decreased significantly in dogs with pulmonary hypertension . mean arterial pressure was maintained at a constant level in all groups . high-dose milrinone administration decreased systemic vascular resistance index ( svri ) significantly ; low-dose milrinone administration decreased svri slightly . conclusions : milrinone may have a selective pulmonary vasodilatory effect only in dogs with pulmonary hypertension . the mechanism that produced a selectivity on pulmonary vasculature in dogs with pulmonary hypertension is unknown . however , an inhibition of platelet aggregation may decrease the mpap resulting from an increase in camp caused by milrinone . further studies are needed to resolve the pulmonary vasodilatory effect of milrinone in dogs with pulmonary hypertension . 
role of endogenous angiotensin ii in the control of vasopressin secretion during hypovolemia and hypotension in conscious rabbits . in order to investigate the physiological role of angiotensin ii ( ang ii ) in the control of vasopressin ( vp ) secretion , the vp responses to hypotension induced by hemorrhage ( 20 ml/kg , n = 10 ) or nitroprusside infusion ( 1-10 micrograms/kg . min , n = 9 ) were studied with or without blockade of ang ii formation by the converting enzyme inhibitor captopril in conscious rabbits . administration of captopril ( 5 mg/kg , iv ) caused a small decrease in mean arterial pressure but did not enhance the hypotensive response to subsequent hemorrhage or nitroprusside infusion . the renin response to both stimuli was enhanced by captopril , whereas the increase in plasma ang ii concentration was attenuated . plasma vp ( pavp ) concentration increased during hemorrhage ( 2.0 + / - 0.2-113 .6 + / - 47.7 pg/ml , p less than 0.01 ) and nitroprusside infusion ( 2.1 + / - 0.3-5 .1 + / - 1.0 pg/ml , p less than 0.01 ) . captopril did not change basal plasma pavp , nor did it attenuate the vp responses to hemorrhage or nitroprusside . indeed , captopril tended to enhance the vp responses to hemorrhage ( 2.3 + / - 0.3-147 .1 + / - 65.9 pg/ml ) and nitroprusside infusion ( 1.9 + / - 0.2-15 .4 + / - 6.0 pg/ml ) . the relationship between log pavp and mean arterial pressure during hemorrhage and nitroprusside infusion in the presence of captopril was not different than in the absence of captopril . these results indicate that in conscious rabbits , the renin-angiotensin system does not contribute to the increase in vp secretion during hypotension induced by hemorrhage or nitroprusside infusion . 
a prospective study of sodium-lithium countertransport and hypertension in utah . a 7-year prospective study of a cohort of 1,458 normotensive adults from utah pedigrees , screened from 1980 to 1985 , was done to determine whether baseline levels of sodium-lithium countertransport were associated with an increased risk of future hypertension . subsequent new hypertension ( n = 39 ) was ascertained in 1989 from detailed follow-up medical questionnaires ( 67 % response ) . previous segregation analyses on a subset of these pedigree members who responded ( n = 342 ) using family relationships in addition to countertransport levels have shown statistically inferred major gene segregation of sodium-lithium countertransport levels . in the normotensive adults inferred by segregation analysis to carry the recessive major gene for high sodium-lithium countertransport , new-onset hypertension occurred in 18.8 % ( 3 of 16 ) compared with 3.7 % ( 12 of 326 ) in the low sodium-lithium countertransport genotype group ( relative risk , 4.6 [ 1.6 , 13.9 ] ; p = 0.03 ) . however , an elevated baseline sodium-lithium countertransport level without genotype information from segregation analysis did not increase the risk of future hypertension in the complete cohort of adult pedigree members ( relative risk , 1.02 [ 0.85 , 1.22 ] ) . adjustment for other risk factors reduced the relative risk to 0.90 ( 0.72 , 1.11 ) . we conclude that the presence of a major gene for sodium-lithium countertransport or another closely linked gene , rather than the actual level of sodium-lithium countertransport , may increase the risk of hypertension onset . high sodium-lithium countertransport levels do not increase the risk of future hypertension for individuals in whom only polygenic and environmental effects determine sodium-lithium countertransport level . 
high-normal blood pressure progression to hypertension in the framingham heart study . this study sought to determine if individuals with high-normal blood pressure ( diastolic blood pressure of 85-89 mm hg ) progress to hypertension more frequently than those with normal blood pressure ( diastolic blood pressure less than 85 mm hg ) , thus advancing to a higher cardiovascular risk category . individuals from the framingham heart study were placed in normal and high-normal blood pressure categories and followed for 26 years for the development of hypertension . with hypertension defined as a diastolic blood pressure of 95 mm hg or greater or the initiation of antihypertensive therapy , 23.6 % of men and 36.2 % of women with normal blood pressure developed hypertension compared with 54.2 % of men and 60.6 % of women with high-normal blood pressure . the relative risk for the development of hypertension associated with high-normal blood pressure was 2.25 for men ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 1.8-2 .8 ; p less than 0.0001 ) and 1.89 for women ( 95 % ci , 1.5-2 .3 ; p less than 0.0001 ) . the age-adjusted relative risks estimated by the proportional hazards model were 3.36 for men and 3.37 for women ( p less than 0.001 ) . among those risk factors examined , baseline systolic and diastolic blood pressure , metropolitan relative weight , and change in weight over time were significant predictors of future hypertension in men and women whose initial blood pressure was normal . for men with high-normal blood pressure , systolic blood pressure and change in weight were identified as risk factors for future hypertension . these results indicate that the probability of individuals with blood pressure in the high-normal range developing hypertension is twofold to threefold higher than in those with normal blood pressure . 
renal manifestations of nacl sensitivity in borderline hypertensive rats . compared with the normotensive wistar-kyoto rat , the spontaneously hypertensive rat exhibits exaggerated alterations in renal sympathetic nerve activity and excretory function during volume expansion ( exaggerated natriuresis ) and environmental stress ( antinatriuresis ) . the borderline hypertensive rat is the first filial offspring of the spontaneously hypertensive rat and the wistar-kyoto rat and develops hypertension with increased dietary nacl intake . the present investigation sought to determine whether the dietary nacl intake-induced transition from the normotensive state of the wistar-kyoto parent to the hypertensive state of the spontaneously hypertensive parent in the borderline hypertensive rat was accompanied by a similar transition of the renal sympathetic nerve activity and excretory responses to volume expansion and environmental stress . borderline hypertensive rats fed a 1 % nacl diet remained normotensive and exhibited renal sympathetic nerve activity and excretory responses to volume expansion and environmental stress that were similar to those of their wistar-kyoto parent . borderline hypertensive rats fed an 8 % nacl diet developed hypertension and exhibited responses that were similar to those of their spontaneously hypertensive parent . thus , the dietary nacl intake-induced transition from the normotensive state of the wistar-kyoto parent to the hypertensive state of the spontaneously hypertensive parent in the borderline hypertensive rat was accompanied by a similar transition of the renal sympathetic nerve activity and excretory responses to volume expansion and environmental stress . the results suggest that increased dietary nacl intake is able to induce or unmask the capabilities for these responses , which are genetically conveyed to the borderline hypertensive rat by the spontaneously hypertensive rat parent in latent forms . 
vasopressin response in collecting ducts of rats resistant to mineralocorticoid hypertension . in previous studies we found that vasopressin stimulation of both cyclic amp ( camp ) formation in cortical collecting tubules ( cct ) and sodium reabsorption in isolated perfused kidneys was markedly exaggerated in rats with mineralocorticoid hypertension . in the present study , we tested the response ( camp accumulation ) of cortical and outer medullary collecting tubules ( omct ) to vasopressin in two rat models that are resistant to deoxycorticosterone acetate ( doca ) - induced hypertension , the wistar-furth strain and nacl-deficient rats . the blood pressure of normal outbred wistar rats rose to hypertensive levels ( systolic pressure more than 165 mm hg ) during a 5-week treatment with doca ( 10 mg/week ) and 1 % saline to drink . significant hypertrophy of the heart and kidneys was also observed . vasopressin ( 10 ( -8 ) m ) - induced camp formation was enhanced 3.4-fold in the cct ( omct unchanged ) of hypertensive rats compared with normotensive controls . significant hypertrophy ( as indexed by tubule diameter ) of the cct but not the omct was also observed in doca-salt hypertensive rats . restriction of dietary nacl ( 0.13 % in chow , tap water to drink ) completely prevented doca-induced hypertension , organ and cct hypertrophy , and enhancement of vasopressin-stimulated camp formation in the cct . in wistar-furth rats , doca-salt treatment did not alter blood pressure or cause significant organ hypertrophy . however , doca-salt treatment enhanced vasopressin-stimulated camp formation by 4.1-fold in cct of wistar-furth rats , with significant tubular hypertrophy in the cct but not the omct . we conclude that doca-induced hypertension and changes in cct function are dependent on excess dietary nacl . 
exclusion of the na ( + ) - h + antiporter as a candidate gene in human essential hypertension . the primary abnormalities that contribute to the pathogenesis of human essential hypertension are unknown . the known genetic contribution to this disorder suggests the possible use of genetic linkage analysis to test whether specific candidate genes contribute to the pathogenesis of either essential hypertension or intermediate phenotypes . among such phenotypes , elevated erythrocyte na ( + ) - li + countertransport ( slc ) is the best known , supporting major gene inheritance by pedigree analysis . striking similarities between slc and na ( + ) - h + exchange suggest that mutations at the na ( + ) - h + antiporter gene locus ( apnh ) might result in elevated slc and contribute to the subsequent pathogenesis of hypertension . we have tested these hypotheses by genetic linkage analysis , with apnh as a candidate gene . by determining genotypes at apnh and flanking loci in pedigrees that support major gene segregation of elevated slc , we have excluded linkage of apnh and the major slc locus with a lod score of -5.91 , an odds ratio of almost 1,000,000:1 against linkage . in the analysis of 93 hypertensive sibling pairs , we have further demonstrated that apnh explains none of the variance in slc in hypertensive individuals ( r2 = 6 x 10 ( -7 ) , p greater than 0.99 ) . finally , we have directly tested for linkage of apnh to genes predisposing toward hypertension by linkage in hypertensive sibling pairs . mean allele sharing at apnh is not greater than expected from random assortment in hypertensive siblings ( 0.92 versus 1.0 , p greater than 0.80 ) , and the upper 95 % confidence limit of this value ( 1.04 ) indicates that mutations at apnh rarely if ever contribute to the pathogenesis of hypertension in this population . 
methodology of sodium sensitivity assessment . the example of age and sex . this article addresses the methodology of sodium sensitivity assessment . there have been reports to suggest that a high sodium intake is a cause of elevated blood pressure and trials to indicate that a reduction in sodium intake may reduce blood pressure that is already high ; the implications of these findings are discussed . many studies on sodium sensitivity suffer from what could be called the " normal probability fallacy " ; without appropriate control conditions , an intervention such as sodium restriction may incorrectly be assigned to a more pronounced response in a subgroup of the study population . as an example , findings are reviewed of age and sex as determinants of a response of blood pressure to variations in sodium intake . the limited data available suggest that subjects that are older and have higher blood pressure levels seem to benefit more from a reduction in sodium intake . in addition , elderly subjects at a high dietary sodium intake may have a higher risk of developing hypertension . findings in both nonexperimental and experimental studies tend to support this view . findings on sex differences are less consistent . a systematic approach to the assessment of factors and mechanisms responsible for sodium sensitivity in some subjects is needed to determine who might benefit most . until more data are available , there is little basis to discriminate sodium-sensitive from sodium-resistant hypertensive subjects . 
racial and ethnic modifiers of the salt-blood pressure response . the relation between sodium and blood pressure is a centuries-old question . a substantial body of epidemiological and experimental data has accumulated that strongly implicates nacl as having a causal role in the genesis of arterial hypertension . prospective studies that have been performed in diverse populations that have manipulated nacl exposure by diet or infusion have repeatedly documented an nacl pressor effect . further , similar studies in biracial populations have also demonstrated a greater prevalence of " salt sensitivity " in blacks compared with whites . the reasons for this observation are not entirely clear ; however , intrinsic or hypertension-induced renal abnormalities that limit natriuretic capacity , reduced na + , k ( + ) - atpase pump activity , other membrane ion transport disturbances , differential exposure to psychological stressors , greater insulin resistance , and dietary factors ( reduced ca + and k + intake ) have all been suggested as possibly playing a role . salt sensitivity appears to be a widespread phenomenon . however , it is critically important to determine what factors account for racial differences in salt sensitivity . moreover , the prevalence of salt sensitivity in the general population is unknown . current definitions of salt sensitivity are varied and unidirectional . in comparison with bidirectional criteria ( blood pressure increase with salt loading and blood pressure decrease with salt restriction ) , they are probably inadequate to identify salt-sensitive individuals who manifest less extreme blood pressure change after dietary sodium or plasma volume manipulations . more sensitive criteria for diagnosing salt sensitivity will facilitate a better understanding of racial and ethnic differences in the prevalence of salt sensitivity . 
biohistory of slavery and blood pressure differences in blacks today . a hypothesis . genetic factors are known to play an important role in the variations in blood pressure levels . however , genetic factors that explain the higher average blood pressure levels of western hemisphere blacks when compared with african blacks have not been seriously considered . because the genetic makeup of a population is largely determined by biological and ecological forces in the past , an examination of the biohistory of blacks , specifically the slavery era , was conducted . an overview of the salient findings of that investigation is included in this article . the published historical evidence on the transatlantic slave trade and new world slavery ( from the 16th century to the 19th century ) reveals that conditions existed for " natural selection , " and therefore , genetic changes were virtually inevitable in the slave populations . during this period of history , mortality was extremely high , and fertility ( or reproductive success ) was so low among the survivors that most plantation societies in the western hemisphere depended on a constant importation of captives ( over 12 million ) from africa for the viability of the plantation communities . because the major causes of death were salt-depletive diseases such as diarrhea , fevers , and vomiting , it is argued that individuals with an enhanced genetic-based ability to conserve salt had a distinct survival advantage over others and were , therefore , more likely to bequeath their genotype to subsequent generations of western hemisphere blacks . thus , it is predicted that blacks in the americas have a greater frequency of individuals with an enhanced genetic-based ability to conserve salt than african blacks . 
an evolutionary perspective on salt , hypertension , and human genetic variability . natural selection for electrolyte conservation has likely been the norm throughout human evolutionary history . however , the current patterns of excessive dietary salt intake create the potential for salt overload . under these conditions , hypertension may be considered an expected pathological response to an evolutionarily new constraint . the transatlantic middle passage may have created a genetic bottleneck for salt conservation in african-americans . although the initial consequences of this important historical event probably constricted genetic variability and further magnified the potential for salt-sensitive hypertension , the middle passage undoubtedly also served as a more generalized major source of environmental stress and may have stimulated subsequent hereditary diversity in the survivors of this holocaust and their descendants . accelerated rates of mutation , genetic recombination , and transposable genetic elements in conjunction with enhanced opportunities for gene flow , new selective pressures , and drift have all contributed to the tremendous heterogeneity of contemporary african-americans . it is unlikely that a single genetic event , even of the severity of the middle passage , can account comprehensively for the apparent susceptibility of this macroethnic group to high blood pressure and hypertension . 
clinical interaction of salt and weight change on blood pressure level . studies that examine the effect of altered body weight or dietary sodium on blood pressure level are reviewed . emphasis is placed on studies that compare the effects of weight reduction or sodium restriction in separate comparison groups or analyze the independent effect of the two intervention modalities in multiple regression analysis . additional analyses of the hypertension prevention trial data are presented . most studies , where comparison can be made , suggest a greater effect for weight reduction than for the achieved , moderate , or short-term reduction in sodium intake on subsequent lowering of blood pressure ; the lowering effect on blood pressure of weight reduction is independent of the effect of dietary sodium restriction . however , long-term ( over a year ) substantial reductions ( up to 70 meq/day ) of dietary sodium have not been achieved in comparative trials , nor are the effects of combined weight and sodium reduction in the prevention and treatment of hypertension quantified . future studies and potential problems are discussed . 
sodium-potassium interaction in hypertension and hypertensive cardiovascular disease . epidemiological evidence suggests that low potassium intake is associated with the probability of occurrence of hypertension and stroke . the short-term response to increased potassium intake is increased sodium excretion as well as increased potassium excretion ; the short-term response to increased sodium intake is increased potassium excretion as well as increased sodium excretion . in some experimental studies , increased amounts of potassium have been able to block the noxious influences of sodium . sodium and potassium must be concomitantly considered in the investigation of the association of either of these cations with hypertension and cardiovascular disease . the chloride ion is also important for sodium 's effects ; its importance in potassium 's effects has not been extensively explored . 
interaction of sodium sensitivity and stress in young adults . the interaction of sodium sensitivity and stress-induced cardiovascular reactivity was studied in white and black young adults aged 18-23 years . the cardiovascular response to difficult mental arithmetic was measured before and after 14 days of oral sodium loading ( 10 g nacl/day added to the usual diet ) . a sodium-sensitive blood pressure response occurred in 18.4 % of whites and 37.3 % of blacks . a significant correlation between blood pressure change and sodium excretion occurred in the sodium-sensitive group ( r = - 0.28 , p less than 0.01 ) . high sodium intake did not augment blood pressure or heart rate response to the beta-adrenergic-mediated stimulus of mental arithmetic in the population , which was grouped by blood pressure , race , or sodium sensitivity . 
a consensus approach to electrolytes and blood pressure . could we all be right ? this commentary sets forth the hypothesis that the putative beneficial or detrimental effects of specific electrolytes on blood pressure regulation in fact reflect highly integrated responses to interactions among these cationic and anionic species . in this paradigm , the impact of any given intake of an electrolyte on arterial pressure will be influenced by the concurrent consumption of other electrolytes . thus , the heterogeneous blood pressure response in humans to isolated manipulations of nutrients such as sodium , calcium , and potassium may be determined , in part , by the adequacy of the dietary intake of other mineral elements . if this hypothesis is validated by continued research in this area , we would have new strategies available to improve blood pressure control in humans . for example , treatment of " nacl sensitivity " in some humans might be more effectively approached by correcting dietary deficiencies of either potassium or calcium than by restricting dietary nacl . 
dietary sodium reduction for hypertension prevention and treatment . nutritional-nonpharmacological approaches for the treatment and prevention of hypertension are of great interest . sodium reduction is one of the primary methods recommended for these purposes . the general public is interested in the reduction of dietary sodium intake and has responded with a decrease in table salt use , the purchase of lowered sodium food products , and the use of food labels to help guide food purchases . countervailing trends in the use of convenience foods and dining out increase the difficulty for individuals to lower sodium intake . clinical trials that have used sodium reduction alone or in combination with other lifestyle therapies have demonstrated the feasibility of reducing dietary sodium intake from 30 % to 50 % for up to 4 years , in a variety of populations . trials that used lifestyle and weight loss interventions have also achieved significant reductions in body weight and alcohol consumption and increases in physical activity . a variety of studies indicate that long-term sodium reduction is feasible and that it is acceptable to patients . no negative consequences of these interventions have been observed , and in some cases improvement in the intake of other nutrients has occurred . nonpharmacological interventions have resulted in hypertension control in significant proportions of the trial populations . these studies demonstrate that the foregoing types of interventions can significantly contribute to hypertension treatment and prevention . 
a perspective on reducing salt intake . epidemiological , clinical , and experimental evidence links excessive salt consumption to hypertension ; there appears to be no evidence that it is beneficial . i conclude that it should be public policy to advise and help americans to reduce their salt intake . because even mild hypertension increases risk , the overall problem does not appear to be amenable to treatment , although treatment for those with clinical hypertension will always be needed . there appears to be little likelihood that identification of those " at risk " will be successful , nor does it appear that we have the capacity at this time to conduct successful preventive field trials . it is difficult for the individual to modify his diet alone . the successful strategy is to modify the food supply by changing public demand . the public responds to dietary advice if acceptable and identifiable products are available . because most of the salt is in commercially prepared foods and because their consumption will increase in the future , the major responsibility for lowering salt consumption will fall on the food manufacturers . they are beginning to respond , and there appears to be ample opportunity for them to reduce the salt content of foods markedly . our temporary objectives , however , should be modest , because unrealistic objectives only discourage those who attempt to follow them . 
salt and hypertension -- future directions . the comments that follow reflect the personal views of this author regarding some useful directions of research in the field of salt and hypertension . from a physiological perspective , salt sensitivity is defined , and the merits and limitations of certain animal models of hypertension used to study this issue are discussed . the need to more clearly define the mechanisms that detect sodium intake and control the renal excretion of sodium is discussed . additionally , the need to better understand the relation between sodium homeostasis , volume regulation , and the consequences of dysfunction in these regulatory system on the arterial vasculature and interstitial matrix is emphasized . the necessity for the application of new tools and approaches in a number of investigative areas is discussed . finally , the necessity of equally imaginative whole animal and cell/molecular research and efforts to merge and integrate the data obtained at the cellular level with that of intact systems is emphasized . 
research and policy directions . salt and blood pressure . the relation between dietary intake of sodium chloride and blood pressure levels remains controversial . the critical questions concern whether there is a susceptible subgroup at risk of elevated blood pressure because of sodium chloride consumption . if there is such a subgroup , what is its size and how can it be identified ? further clinical trials are needed to determine the long-term effects of sodium chloride reduction on blood pressure . the risk of disease , including stroke and coronary heart disease , is linear with blood pressure levels . a small change in blood pressure can have a relatively large impact on disease , even within the normal range of blood pressure . 
an overview of randomized trials of sodium reduction and blood pressure to test for effects on systolic and diastolic blood pressure and to provide precise estimates of their magnitude , we conducted an overview of randomized clinical trials that aimed to reduce the intake of sodium in human subjects . we excluded from pooled analyses trials with confounded designs , those that compared intake levels beyond the usual range in the population , and those without published reports . two reviewers abstracted information in duplicate and differences were reconciled . twenty-three trials with outcome data from an aggregate of 1,536 subjects were included . data were pooled both separately for hypertensive and normotensive subjects and for all trials combined . with the use of sample size weighting , blood pressure reductions ( net of controls ) were 4.9 + / - 1.3 / 2.6 + / - 0.8 mm hg ( systolic and diastolic , respectively , with 95 % confidence limits ) in hypertensive subjects and 1.7 + / - 1.0 / 1.0 + / - 0.7 mm hg in normotensive subjects . the combined blood pressure reductions were 2.9 + / - 0.8 / 1.6 + / - 0.5 mm hg . these changes were associated with mean reduction of urinary sodium excretion ranging from 16 to 171 mmol/24 hr for individual trials . a dose-response relation across trials was found , both in normotensive and in hypertensive subjects . these results indicate that sodium reduction lowers mean blood pressure in both hypertensive and normotensive individuals for periods of at least several months . the findings are highly consistent with results of observational epidemiological studies and have implications for preventive strategies of blood pressure control . 
neurovascular mechanisms and sodium balance in the pathogenesis of hypertension . physiological studies have clarified the role that the brain has in the interplay between salt balance and hypertension . neural mechanisms and endocrine secretions play a pivotal role in the adaptation of mammals to changes in the intake and excretion of sodium . maneuvers that alter the concentration of sodium in the plasma modify the sensitivity of baroreceptor reflexes and alter vascular reactivity . these changes may be mediated in part by the release of vasopressin . the research also suggests that the brain indirectly modulates the ability of the vascular endothelium to release vasoactive factors . collectively , these studies illustrate the multiple effects of the sodium ion on the peripheral neural and central endocrine mechanisms that participate in the regulation of arterial pressure . 
salt and hypertension . lessons from animal models that relate to human hypertension . a high nacl diet can raise blood pressure in both susceptible people and in susceptible animals , and the mechanisms are probably quite similar for both humans and animals . the possibly harmful effects of a high nacl diet are not unexpected since both prehistoric man and mammals evolved in a low nacl world . evolutionary forces molded mammals to adapt well to a low sodium intake ; the modern high nacl intake goes " against the grain " of this adaptation . the high nacl diet can cause premature mortality by raising blood pressure in susceptible people . we have new evidence that in a hypertensive setting , a high nacl diet can increase mortality even though it does not cause a further rise of blood pressure . multiple small cerebral infarcts are a partial cause of this excess mortality . recent evidence also indicates that a high potassium diet reduces the rise of blood pressure caused by a high nacl diet , whereas a low normal potassium intake encourages an nacl-induced rise of blood pressure . it is the combination of kidneys that tends to retain nacl together with a high nacl intake that produces a rise in blood pressure . this combination tends to cause nacl retention , which can trigger a rise in blood pressure in susceptible humans and animals . such a rise in blood pressure can augment renal nacl excretion and regain the previous nacl balance . in the dahl salt-sensitive ( ds ) rat , there are several renal abnormalities that would tend to encourage sodium retention . by analogy , renal " abnormalities " are probably present in people susceptible to hypertension . 
genetic traits related to hypertension and electrolyte metabolism . the genetic and cultural heritability and intercorrelation of traits related to hypertension have been carried out in 98 utah pedigrees ( 2,500 person ) and 58 sibships with two or more hypertensive persons ( 131 hypertensive persons ) . although none of these traits has been established as a marker for " sodium-sensitive hypertension , " many of them are related at least indirectly to both electrolyte metabolism and risk of hypertension . significant recessive monogenic effects and high total heritability ( 52-84 % ) were found for urinary kallikrein , high fat pattern index , intraerythrocytic sodium , na-li countertransport , and ouabain binding sites . familial correlations more strongly attributable to shared environment than to genetic effects were found for na,k-atpase pump activity , intraerythrocytic magnesium , plasma digoxin-like factor , plasma renin activity , and plasma sodium concentration . all anthropometric variables tested showed highly significant genetic heritability with low and insignificant shared family environmental effects . several of the genetically determined cellular cation tests also correlated with other genetic traits including plasma lipids , anthropometric measurements , and other cellular cation tests . among hypertensive individuals with familial dyslipidemic hypertension , plasma insulin levels correlated with obesity and lipid abnormalities and with several cellular cation flux tests associated with hypertension . 
sympathetic neural contribution to salt-induced hypertension in dahl rats . the dahl strain provides a model for examining mechanisms involved in the genetic sensitivity or resistance to salt-induced hypertension . dahl salt-sensitive rats develop hypertension when fed a high salt diet ; dahl salt-resistant rats remain normotensive . based on early experiments , it was thought that hypertension in dahl salt-sensitive rats epitomized the overriding importance of renal and humoral mechanisms in salt-induced hypertension , but studies in the past 15 years have demonstrated that alterations in sympathetic neural mechanisms also participate critically in the genetic predisposition to salt-induced hypertension in dahl salt-sensitive rats . this article briefly reviews sympathetic neural mechanisms in dahl rats , including evidence for a role of afferent baroreceptor as well as central neural and peripheral adrenergic mechanisms in salt-induced hypertension in dahl salt-sensitive rats . 
relation between sodium intake , renal function , and the regulation of arterial pressure . the long-term regulation of arterial pressure requires the maintenance of a balance between sodium and water intake and sodium and water excretion . normal salt and water balance leads to stable body fluid volumes and the maintenance of normal renal function is critical to establishing extracellular fluid volume homeostasis . this review focuses on the role of the kidney in the long-term control of salt and water balance with particular emphasis on the relations between sodium intake , the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system , renal sympathetic nerve activity , and the regulation of arterial pressure via renal sodium and water excretion . the accumulation of evidence in recent years demonstrates that low level elevation of renin release , circulating angiotensin ii or aldosterone , or activation of renal sympathetic outflow may alter renal function such that normal natriuretic and diuretic responses to arterial pressure are significantly impeded . under these circumstances , the maintenance of normal sodium and water excretion requires a significant elevation of arterial pressure . thus , compromised renal function leads to elevation of arterial pressure to maintain adequate sodium and water balance during periods of increased sodium intake . the resultant chronic elevation of arterial pressure then becomes a compromise that is used by the kidneys to maintain normal extracellular body fluid volumes . 
dietary salt and blood pressure . a perspective . although dietary salt restriction is often valuable as sole or adjunctive therapy of hypertensive disorders , it is abundantly clear that hypertensive patients comprise a heterogeneous group with regard to salt sensitivity of blood pressure . this is apparent despite the many methodological obstacles to defining salt sensitivity in an individual patient . currently , dietary trial is the only sure means of defining a given patient as responsive to salt restriction . easily definable markers of salt sensitivity would allow appropriate targeting of this rather ponderous therapy . promising leads include the assessment of membrane ion transporters such as sodium-lithium exchange and of the activity of the renin-angiotensin system , including the phenomenon of " non-modulating " hypertension and other volume regulatory hormones such as atrial natriuretic factor . although less intensively studied than in hypertensive patients , the blood pressure response of normal subjects to salt restriction is also marked by great variability . given the possibility of deleterious consequences of population-wide salt restriction for at least some people in a setting such as the united states , it seems imprudent to recommend such a policy before its proven worth has been demonstrated by clinical trial . pending such evidence and the development of markers , salt restriction should be reserved for those in whom it is of demonstrated efficacy . 
avoiding interpretive pitfalls when assessing arrhythmia suppression after myocardial infarction : insights from the long-term observations of the placebo-treated patients in the cardiac arrhythmia pilot study ( caps ) the cardiac arrhythmia pilot study ( caps ) was a 1 year trial that analyzed the safety and effectiveness of arrhythmia suppression in 502 patients surviving acute myocardial infarction who had greater than or equal to 10 ventricular premature depolarizations/h or greater than or equal to 5 runs of ventricular tachycardia on a holter recording obtained 6 to 60 days after the acute infarction . because 100 of these patients received placebo in a double-blind fashion for 1 year , a comprehensive objective analysis was performed of spontaneous arrhythmia changes based on real data rather than statistical estimates . in the caps placebo group , 19 % developed some serious clinical event in 1 year ( death , heart failure , proarrhythmia ) that could likely be attributable to antiarrhythmic drug toxicity . a significant reduction in the frequency of ventricular premature depolarizations ( p = 0.004 ) occurred in the first few weeks of " therapy " with a further significant ( p less than 0.04 ) decrease between 3 to 12 months . after initiation of placebo antiarrhythmic therapy , 27 % had " apparent ventricular premature depolarization suppression " ( greater than or equal to 70 % reduction ) after one holter recording evaluation and nearly half ( 48 % ) after six holter recordings to assess suppression were performed . 
percutaneous angioscopy during coronary angioplasty using a steerable microangioscope . the feasibility of using a flexible , steerable angioscope to perform coronary angioscopy before and after percutaneous coronary angioplasty was tested . the microangioscope fits through an 8f coronary angioplasty guiding catheter and contains a multifiber viewing bundle incorporated into the body of a 4.3 f balloon catheter with a central lumen for distal flushing and guide-wire passage . angioscopy was performed without complications 45 times in 24 patients , including 6 patients with stable and 18 with unstable angina . circumferential visualization of the target lesion was successful in 20 ( 83 % ) of the 24 patients and improved with operator experience . excellent visualization of the target lesion was achieved in 16 ( 94 % ) of the last 17 patients . plaque , thrombus and dissection were among the abnormal findings in the 20 patients ( 4 with stable , 16 with unstable angina ) in whom circumferential viewing of the target lesion was achieved . in four patients with restenosis after angioplasty , the lesion morphology was distinctly different from that of lesions in arteries without prior angioplasty . in patients with stable angina , no thrombus or dissection was seen by angiography or angioscopy before angioplasty . in patients with unstable angina , thrombus was detected more frequently by angioscopy than by angiography before angioplasty ( 8 versus 2 of 16 ) and after ( 15 versus 2 of 16 ) angioplasty . intimal dissection was also seen much more frequently by angioscopy than by angiography before angioplasty ( 7 versus 0 of 16 ) and after angioplasty ( 16 versus 7 of 16 ) . it is concluded that high resolution percutaneous coronary angioscopy can be performed safely in conjunction with balloon angioplasty . further investigation is needed before this diagnostic tool can be applied clinically . 
evaluation of preload reserve during isometric exercise testing in patients with old myocardial infarction : doppler echocardiographic study . to estimate the preload reserve in response to an increase in afterload in patients with old myocardial infarction , the relation between the doppler echocardiographic inflow velocity pattern and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was investigated during isometric handgrip exercise testing . the study population consisted of 16 normal subjects and 40 patients with old myocardial infarction . the 40 patients were subdivided into two groups according to left ventricular end-diastolic pressure at rest : group i ( 22 patients ) , less than 18 mm hg ; group ii ( 18 patients ) , 18 mm hg or more . at rest , the ratio of peak velocity in atrial contraction phase to peak velocity in early diastolic filling phase ( a/e ) was significantly higher in the patients with old myocardial infarction than in normal subjects ; values in the two subgroups of myocardial infarction did not differ significantly . the a/e ratio and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure increased significantly during exercise in group i. conversely , the change in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure during exercise in group ii was significantly greater than that in group i , and was associated with a decrease in the a/e ratio . thus , an atrial compensatory mechanism operated effectively in response to the increase in afterload in patients with a normal left ventricular filling pressure , whereas this compensatory mechanism deteriorated in patients with elevated left ventricular filling pressure due to a limited preload reserve . 
noninvasive assessment of intrinsic ventricular load dynamics in dilated cardiomyopathy on the basis of hemodynamic theory , a new noninvasive method is developed to provide improved insights into the significance of depressed doppler left ventricular ejection variables in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy . the net force ( f ) associated with intraventricular flow throughout ejection can be written as : f = a.dv / dt + b.v2 , where v is the ejection velocity and a and b are variables related to the geometry of the ventricle and its outflow tract . instantaneous levels of this force were calculated in 9 normal subjects and 10 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy using doppler , m-mode and two-dimensional echocardiography . the maximal ejection force ( fmax ) was 47.5 + / - 8.5 kdyn in normal subjects and 25.5 + / - 6.2 kdyn in those with dilated cardiomyopathy ( p = 0.0001 ) . peak local acceleration and outflow velocity were severely depressed in those with cardiomyopathy compared with normal subjects ( 1,260 + / - 129 versus 2,671 + / - 430 cm/s2 and 71 + / - 14 versus 109 + / - 7 cm/s , respectively ; p = 0.0001 ) . maximal ejection force was attained very early in ejection . a significant linear correlation was found between peak outflow acceleration and maximal ejection force ( n = 19 ; r = 0.91 , p = 0.0001 ) . at the time of peak ejection velocity , the net force had decreased to 64 % of its peak value in those with cardiomyopathy , whereas in normal subjects , it had decreased to only 84 % of its peak value ( p = 0.008 ) . in normal subjects , the ejection force was positive during the first 75 % of ejection , but in those with cardiomyopathy , it was positive only during the first 54 % ( p = 0.0003 ) . once its peak value was attained , total left ventricular systolic wall stress declined rapidly during ejection in normal subjects ( to 33 % of its peak value by end-ejection ) , whereas it remained elevated throughout ejection in patients with cardiomyopathy ( at 60 % of its peak value by end-ejection , p = 0.0001 versus normal ) . the maximal ejection force corresponded to a calculated intraventricular peak pressure gradient of 9.8 + / - 1.6 mm hg in normal subjects and 6 + / - 1.2 mm hg in those with cardiomyopathy ( p = 0.0001 ) . the average contribution of the intrinsic component of the left ventricular systolic load ( that is , wall stress associated with the ventricular to aortic pressure gradient ) to the total myocardial load was 9.1 % ( range 7.3 % to 11.2 % ) in normal subjects and 6.2 % ( range 3.9 % to 7.5 % ) in those with cardiomyopathy ( p = 0.0001 ) . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
methodology of head-up tilt testing in patients with unexplained syncope prolonged 60 degree head-up tilt has been shown to be valuable in the investigation of unexplained syncope , diagnosing neurally mediated bradycardia/hypotension or malignant vasovagal syndrome . to evaluate the methodology of tilt testing , the following were examined : reproducibility of results , tilt duration , angle of tilt , method of tilt support and effect of age in patients and control subjects . seventy-one patients with recurrent unexplained syncope underwent 60 min of 60 degree tilt ; 53 ( 75 % ) had an abnormal test with vasovagal syncope at 24 + / - 10 min ( mean + / - sd ) . tilting to 60 degrees resulted in an abnormal test in only 2 ( 7 % ) of 27 control subjects without cardiovascular symptoms ( p less than 0.001 ) ; and 5 ( 15 % ) of 34 patients with syncope and documented conduction tissue disease ( p less than 0.001 ) . of 15 youthful fainters , 3 ( 20 % ) had vasovagal reactions as did 1 ( 8 % ) of 12 asymptomatic youthful control subjects . these 12 control subjects also underwent tilting with a saddle support and 7 ( 67 % ) had vasovagal reactions . it is concluded that the duration of tilting at 60 degrees should be 45 min ( mean time to syncope +2 x sd in the 53 patients with abnormal results ) . twenty percent of patients with an abnormal tilt test may not demonstrate syncope with repeat tilting . saddle tilt testing in unexplained syncope may result in a loss of specificity . tilting at less than 60 degrees results in a loss of sensitivity . head-up tilt may be less useful in youthful subjects with vasovagal syncope than in other subjects . 
immediate reproducibility of electrically induced sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia before and during antiarrhythmic therapy the immediate reproducibility of sustained ventricular tachycardia induction was evaluated prospectively during 106 studies performed in 53 patients with clinical sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia . programmed electrical stimulation was performed twice , using the same protocol during 53 drug-free studies and 53 subsequent studies on antiarrhythmic therapy . sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia was reproduced in 104 ( 98 % ) of the 106 studies . there was no significant difference in the incidence of reproducible tachycardia in the drug-free state compared with that observed during treatment with different classes of antiarrhythmic drugs . an increase in the number of extrastimuli was required to reinitiate the tachycardia in 9 ( 11 % ) of 83 studies in which single or double extrastimuli were initially required to induce the tachycardia . in 39 ( 37 % ) of 104 studies with reproducible tachycardia induction , the two tachycardias significantly differed in electrocardiographic ( ecg ) configuration and cycle length . these observations suggest that the overall reproducibility of ventricular tachycardia induction is sufficiently high to provide a reliable marker for evaluating the efficacy of therapeutic interventions . however , specific tachycardia characteristics such as cycle length and ecg configuration are more variable even within the same study and may be less useful in assessing the effects of subsequent interventions . 
differences in qrs configuration during unipolar pacing from adjacent sites : implications for the spatial resolution of pace-mapping . to examine the spatial resolution of unipolar pace-mapping , 12 lead electrocardiograms ( ecgs ) recorded during pacing from each of the poles of a quadripolar catheter ( 5 mm interelectrode distance ) were examined . unipolar pacing was performed from each of the poles at late diastolic threshold , twice threshold and 10 ma at a cycle length of 500 ms. in 15 patients , pacing was performed at the right ventricular apex and in 14 at various left ventricular sites . pacing from the distal catheter pole at threshold ( index ecg ) was used to simulate the site of origin of ventricular tachycardia , and all other ecgs were compared with the index ecg . electrocardiograms were evaluated by two independent observers for 1 ) minor configuration differences ( notch , new small component , change in the amplitude of individual components or change in qrs shape ) ; 2 ) major differences in configuration ( new large component , marked change in the amplitude of an existing component or two minor changes ) ; and 3 ) peak to peak changes in amplitude . minor differences in configuration were seen in a mean 2.4 + / - 1.9 , 4.6 + / - 2.4 and 4.4 + / - 2.9 leads during pacing at 5 , 10 and 15 mm from the distal electrode ( index site ) . major differences in configuration were seen in a mean of 0.3 + / - 0.5 , 2.1 + / - 2.1 and 3.7 + / - 2.3 leads during pacing at 5 , 10 and 15 mm from the index site . differences in amplitude were seen in a mean of 3.1 + / - 2.2 , 5.6 + / - 2.5 and 6.8 + / - 3.0 leads per ecg during pacing at 5 , 10 and 15 mm from the index ecg pacing site , respectively . 
lack of prognostic value of syncope in patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome syncope in patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome may be considered a premonitory event heralding the future development of sudden death . therefore , the clinical and electrophysiologic data of 101 patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome referred for invasive evaluation of known arrhythmias were reviewed to assess the incidence and clinical relevance of syncope . thirty-six patients reported the occurrence of one or more syncopal episodes ( group 1 ) and 65 patients had no syncope ( group 2 ) . these two groups did not differ significantly with regard to age , gender , incidence and characteristics of arrhythmia , clinical history , frequency of arrhythmic events and presence of associated cardiac disease . there were 10 patients in group 1 and 12 in group 2 who had ventricular fibrillation . there were no statistical differences between the two groups with respect to the effective refractory period of the right atrium , atrioventricular node , accessory pathway and right ventricle . furthermore , no differences between the two groups were noted with respect to cycle length of circus movement tachycardia , mean heart rate during atrial fibrillation , and minimum rr interval during atrial fibrillation . in addition , the accessory pathway location was not significantly different between group 1 and group 2 . the occurrence of syncope could not be predicted from any electrophysiologic finding and this symptom had a low sensitivity and specificity for recognition of dangerous rapid heart rates . furthermore , the prognostic value of syncope was less accurate and predictive than the shortest rr interval during atrial fibrillation and the anterograde effective refractory period of the accessory pathway for aborted sudden death occurrence . 
longitudinal dissociation of atrioventricular accessory pathways . unusual properties of atrioventricular ( av ) accessory pathways were found during electrophysiologic investigations in four patients ( three men and one woman ) . anterograde longitudinal dissociation of the accessory pathway was observed in two patients and retrograde longitudinal dissociation in two others . two patients had an accessory pathway with a slow conduction time , one in anterograde direction and one in retrograde direction . these observations further expand our knowledge of the spectrum of electrophysiologic properties of accessory av pathways . 
tricuspid valve disease with significant tricuspid insufficiency in the fetus : diagnosis and outcome . the echocardiographic studies and clinical course of 27 fetuses ( mean gestational age 26.9 weeks ) diagnosed in utero with tricuspid valve disease and significant tricuspid regurgitation were reviewed . the diagnosis of ebstein 's anomaly was made in 17 of the fetuses , 7 had tricuspid valve dysplasia with poorly developed but normally attached leaflets and 2 had an unguarded tricuspid valve orifice with little or no identifiable tricuspid tissue . one fetus was excluded from data analysis because a more complex heart lesion was documented at autopsy . all fetuses had massive right atrial dilation and most who were serially studied had progressive right-sided cardiomegaly . hydrops fetalis was found in six cases and atrial flutter in five . associated cardiac lesions included pulmonary stenosis in five cases and pulmonary atresia in six . four fetuses with normal forward pulmonary artery flow at the initial examination were found at subsequent study to have retrograde pulmonary artery and ductal flow in association with the development of pulmonary stenosis ( n = 1 ) and pulmonary atresia ( n = 3 ) . on review of the clinical course of the 23 fetuses ( excluding 3 with elective abortion ) , 48 % of the fetuses died in utero and 35 % who were liveborn died despite vigorous medical and , when necessary , surgical management , many of whom had severe congestive heart failure . of the four infants who survived the neonatal period , three had a benign neonatal course , all of whom were diagnosed with mild to moderate ebstein 's anomaly ; only one had pulmonary outflow obstruction . an additional finding at autopsy was significant lung hypoplasia documented in 10 of 19 autopsy reports . 
late noninvasive evaluation of cardiac performance in mildly symptomatic older patients with ebstein 's anomaly of tricuspid valve : role of radionuclide imaging . ten patients 8 to 54 years of age with isolated ebstein 's anomaly of the tricuspid valve were evaluated by electrocardiography , maximal exercise treadmill testing , 24 h electrocardiographic ( ecg ) monitoring , echocardiography and rest radionuclide imaging of the left ventricle . the patients presented after the 1st year of life and had not undergone surgical intervention . all except one were in functional class ii . no patient had preexcitation on the surface ecg , but abnormal tachyarrhythmias or bradyarrhythmias were seen in five patients on 24 h ecg monitoring . subnormal exercise performance was observed in five patients . echocardiography demonstrated typical variable tricuspid valve displacement and paradoxic interventricular septal motion . left ventricular end-diastolic dimensions were normal in all patients , but posterior wall motion was reduced in two . moderate to severe tricuspid regurgitation with a doppler jet velocity less than 2.5 m/s was demonstrated in eight patients . left ventricular radionuclide scintigraphy revealed a subnormal ejection fraction ( less than 50 % ) in 5 of 10 patients ; these 5 had previously shown suboptimal exercise performance . the two youngest patients ( less than 15 years ) had no arrhythmia , normal exercise performance and normal left ventricular ejection fraction . there was no correlation between the degree of tricuspid valve displacement or regurgitation and the presence of rhythm disturbance , exercise performance or radionuclide left ventricular function . late evaluation of patients with ebstein 's anomaly may demonstrate significant unsuspected abnormalities in cardiac rhythm , exercise performance and left ventricular function . radionuclide scintigraphy is a useful noninvasive technique for assessing left ventricular dysfunction in these patients . 
in-hospital mortality after balloon aortic valvuloplasty : frequency and associated factors . percutaneous balloon aortic valvuloplasty has been accompanied by significant early periprocedural morbidity and mortality . identification of factors associated with increased mortality might allow for improved selection of patients . the mansfield scientific balloon aortic valvuloplasty registry was analyzed to identify the frequency of in-hospital death and the factors associated with it . of 492 patients undergoing the procedure , 37 ( 7.5 % ) died during the hospital stay in which valvuloplasty was performed . twenty-four of these patients died within the first 24 h and the remainder died within 7 days after the procedure . there were significant differences in baseline clinical and hemodynamic characteristics as well as procedural and postprocedural variables between patients dying and those surviving the in-hospital period . multivariate analysis identified four factors associated with increased mortality : 1 ) the occurrence of a procedure-related complication , 2 ) a lower initial left ventricular systolic pressure , 3 ) a smaller final aortic valve area , and 4 ) a lower baseline cardiac output . thus , baseline hemodynamic , procedural and postprocedural variables and complications can be identified that are associated with increased mortality . 
predictors of long-term survival after percutaneous aortic valvuloplasty : report of the mansfield scientific balloon aortic valvuloplasty registry . percutaneous balloon aortic valvuloplasty was used to prospectively treat 492 elderly , symptomatic , nonsurgical patients suffering from severe aortic stenosis in 27 centers in north america and europe . at 1 year the overall survival rate was 64 % and the event-free survival rate ( survival free of valve replacement or repeat valvuloplasty ) was 43 % . clinical , catheterization and procedural variables were assessed to define prognostic variables . univariate analysis revealed that patients who survived had a lesser frequency of previous myocardial infarction ( 2 % versus 6 % , p less than 0.005 ) , lower incidence of severe ventricular dysfunction ( 22 % versus 48 % , p less than 0.001 ) and lower incidence of symptoms of heart failure ( 60 % versus 75 % , p less than 0.02 ) . history of angina ( 56 % versus 45 % , p = ns ) and syncope ( 23 % versus 16 % , p = ns ) were similar for both groups . values obtained at cardiac catheterization that differed in survivors and nonsurvivors included lower pulmonary artery systolic pressure ( 43 + / - 1 versus 54 + / - 2 mm hg , p less than 0.001 ) , lower mean pulmonary artery pressure ( 28 + / - 1.0 versus 36 + / - 1.0 mm hg , p less than 0.001 ) and larger initial valve area ( 0.52 + / - 0.01 versus 0.47 + / - 0.02 cm2 , p = 0.006 ) . discriminate function analysis was performed to identify variables that independently predicted improved probability of survival . eight variables were significantly and independently predictive . these included age , initial cardiac output , initial left ventricular systolic pressures , initial left ventricular end-diastolic pressures , presence of coronary artery disease , new york heart association dyspnea classification , number of balloon inflations and final valve area . 
ventricular load optimization by unloading therapy in patients with heart failure . the effects of unloading a depressed heart were assessed in terms of optimal coupling between the ventricle and arterial system . to assess the effects of preload on ventricular load coupling , preload was reduced with a lower body negative pressure of -20 mm hg . nitroprusside was used to evaluate the effects of afterload on the coupling under the condition that preload reduction was comparable to that with lower body negative pressure . in 13 patients with heart failure ( ejection fraction 32 + / - 3 % , mean + / - se ) , direct arterial pressure was simultaneously recorded with the left ventricular echocardiogram as the pressure was elevated by phenylephrine . left ventricular contractile properties were defined by the slope ( ees ) of the end-systolic pressure-volume relation . the effective arterial elastance ( ea ) was expressed by the slope of the end-systolic pressure-stroke volume relation . left ventricular external work , end-systolic potential energy and work efficiency , defined as external work per pressure volume area ( external work + potential energy ) , were determined . baseline ventricular load coupling in these patients was characterized by an increase in the ratio of arterial elastance to ventricular elastance ( ea/ees ) ( 1.96 + / - 0.31 ) . this ratio decreased significantly , to 1.45 + / - 0.22 , with nitroprusside , and increased to 2.37 + / - 0.34 with lower body negative pressure . therefore , end-systolic potential energy was decreased by nitroprusside but was unaltered by lower body negative pressure while external work was comparably decreased by both manipulations , indicating that work efficiency was significantly augmented with nitroprusside but declined with lower body negative pressure . 
cardiovascular and hormonal effects of calcitonin gene-related peptide in congestive heart failure . the effects of infusing human alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide were studied in eight patients with congestive heart failure , five normal rabbits and five rabbits with adriamycin-induced cardiomyopathy . in patients with heart failure , calcitonin gene-related peptide caused a dose-dependent increase in cardiac output and decrease in pulmonary and systemic vascular resistance and pulmonary artery pressure . the systemic blood pressure and right atrial and pulmonary wedge pressures decreased only at the highest infusion rate ( 16 ng/kg per min ) . heart rate remained unchanged . plasma epinephrine increased ( p less than 0.05 ) , whereas aldosterone , atrial natriuretic peptide and prolactin concentrations decreased ( p less than 0.05 ) . plasma norepinephrine , renin activity , cortisol and growth hormone concentrations remained unchanged . in both groups of rabbits , the drug decreased blood pressure and increased cardiac output and heart rate . there was a significant increase in renal blood flow ( p less than 0.05 ) . the peptide did not affect the contraction amplitude of human and rabbit ventricular myocytes . these findings suggest that calcitonin gene-related peptide is a vasodilator in the rabbit and humans with little direct effect on ventricular myocardium . this peptide may be useful in some forms of heart failure . 
clinical and angiographic determinants of primary coronary angioplasty success . m-heart investigators . clinical and anatomic determinants of the initial success of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty were prospectively evaluated in 826 patients enrolled in the multi-hospital eastern atlantic restenosis trial ( m-heart ) . the 639 men and 187 women ranged in age from 31 to 85 years . successful angioplasty ( residual stenosis less than 50 % and no major complications ) was achieved in 886 ( 88.6 % ) of 1,000 lesions . success rates were uniform among the eight individual centers . outcome was not influenced by gender , age or other clinical features , including severity and duration of angina , prior myocardial infarction , rest pain , transient st segment elevation , history of smoking or diabetes . in contrast , procedural outcome was significantly associated with lesion-specific angiographic factors . stenoses 60 % to 74 % , 75 % to 89 % , 90 % to 99 % and 100 % were associated with success rates of 96 % , 90 % , 84 % and 69 % , respectively ( p less than 0.001 ) . angioplasty was less successful in calcified than in noncalcified lesions ( 82 % versus 90 % , p less than 0.01 ) , in thrombotic than in nonthrombotic lesions ( 82 % versus 90 % , p less than 0.05 ) and in lesions in the right coronary artery than in other vessels ( 84 % versus 90 % , p less than 0.01 ) . outcome was not related to other anatomic variables , including lesion location ( proximal versus distal ) , vessel size , eccentricity , stenosis length or translesional gradient . by multivariate logistic regression , preangioplasty percent stenosis , right coronary artery location and lesion calcification were demonstrated to be significant independent predictors of angioplasty success . alternative clinical and angiographic variables did not contribute to this regression model . 
experimental pericardial effusion : relation of abnormal respiratory variation in mitral flow velocity to hemodynamics and diastolic right heart collapse pericardial effusion is associated with an abnormal increase in respiratory variation in mitral flow velocity . however , the relation of the changes in flow velocity to pericardial pressure , hemodynamics and two-dimensional echocardiographic findings is not established . therefore , 11 sedated dogs with extensive hemodynamic instrumentation were studied with two-dimensional and doppler echocardiography during four stages of progressively larger pericardial effusion . during all stages of effusion , respiratory variation in peak mitral flow velocity in early diastole and left ventricular isovolumetric relaxation time was increased compared with baseline ( p less than 0.05 ) . this increase was seen at the earliest stage of effusion ( mean pericardial pressure 4.2 + / - 1.4 versus -0.8 + / - 0.9 mm hg at baseline , p less than 0.05 ) , and preceded the appearance of unequivocal diastolic right heart collapse in every dog . maximal respiratory variation coincided with the appearance of right atrial collapse ( mean pericardial pressure 7.1 + / - 2.4 mm hg ; mean inspiratory decrease in aortic pressure 9.5 + / - 2.6 mm hg ; mean aortic pressure 88.2 + / - 15.2 versus 102.2 + / - 11.2 mm hg at baseline , p less than 0.05 ; and cardiac output 3.8 + / - 1.2 versus 5.5 + / - 1.3 liters/min at baseline , p less than 0.05 ) , but did not increase at stages associated with more severe hemodynamic compromise . in addition , the respiratory changes in peak mitral flow velocity in early diastole were associated with simultaneous changes in the diastolic transmitral pressure gradient . it is concluded that in this model of acute pericardial effusion 1 ) increased respiratory variation in early diastolic mitral flow velocity , peak mitral flow velocity in early diastole and left ventricular isovolumetric relaxation time occurs almost immediately as pericardial pressure increases and persists at all stages of increasing pericardial effusion ; 2 ) the abnormal respiratory variation occurs before equalization of intracardiac pressures and before the onset of unequivocal right heart collapse ; 3 ) the respiratory variation occurs as a result of changes in the diastolic transmitral pressure gradient ; and 4 ) the magnitude of the respiratory change is not necessarily predictive of pericardial pressure or severity of hemodynamic compromise , especially at the more severe stages of pericardial effusion . 
effect of lovastatin on intimal hyperplasia after balloon angioplasty : a study in an atherosclerotic hypercholesterolemic rabbit . restenosis , the major limitation of balloon angioplasty , is the result of intimal hyperplasia after the procedure . lovastatin , a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme a ( hmg-coa ) inhibitor , may influence intimal hyperplasia by lowering serum cholesterol and by blocking deoxyribonucleic acid ( dna ) synthesis . to determine whether lovastatin reduces intimal hyperplasia , a prospective , randomized blinded study was performed in 60 atherosclerotic new zealand white male rabbits . atherosclerosis was produced by air desiccation injury followed by a 28 day diet of 2 % cholesterol and 6 % peanut oil that was terminated before balloon angioplasty was performed . angioplasty could not be performed in 14 rabbits with bilateral femoral artery occlusion , and in one rabbit the procedure was a technical failure . forty-five rabbits underwent balloon angioplasty performed with use of a 2.5-mm balloon inflated to 10 atm for three 1 min dilations at 1 min intervals . seven rabbits died during the procedure . thirty-eight rabbits were randomized to either a lovastatin group ( 6 mg/kg body weight per day ) or a control group . angioplasty was performed on all patent vessels ( n = 54 ) ; the procedure was bilateral in 16 rabbits and unilateral in 22 . fifteen lovastatin-treated and 15 control rabbits survived 39 days after angioplasty and were then killed . angiograms , obtained before and 10 min and 39 days after balloon angioplasty , were read with use of electronic calipers by two observers who had no knowledge of treatment data . after the rabbits were killed , vessels were pressure perfused using a standardized protocol to maintain in vivo dimensions for blinded quantitative histologic analysis . 
the flail mitral valve : echocardiographic findings by precordial and transesophageal imaging and doppler color flow mapping . to determine the echocardiographic and doppler characteristics of mitral regurgitation associated with a flail mitral valve , precordial and transesophageal echocardiography with pulsed wave and doppler color flow mapping was performed in 17 patients with a flail mitral valve leaflet due to ruptured chordae tendineae ( group i ) and 22 patients with moderate or severe mitral regurgitation due to other causes ( group ii ) . echocardiograms were performed before or during cardiac surgery ; cardiac catheterization was also performed in 28 patients ( 72 % ) . mitral valve disease was confirmed at cardiac surgery in all patients . by echocardiography , the presence of a flail mitral valve leaflet was defined by the presence of abnormal mitral leaflet coaptation or ruptured chordae . using these criteria , transesophageal imaging showed a trend toward greater sensitivity and specificity than precordial imaging in the diagnosis of flail mitral valve leaflet . by doppler color flow mapping , a flail mitral valve leaflet was also characterized by an eccentric , peripheral , circular mitral regurgitant jet that closely adhered to the walls of the left atrium . the direction of flow of the eccentric jet in the left atrium distinguished a flail anterior from a flail posterior leaflet . by transesophageal echocardiography with doppler color flow mapping , the ratio of mitral regurgitant jet arc length to radius of curvature was significantly higher in group i than group ii patients ( 5.0 + / - 2.3 versus 0.7 + / - 0.6 , p less than 0.001 ) ; all of the group i patients and none of the group ii patients had a ratio greater than 2.5 . 
outcome probabilities and life history after surgical mitral commissurotomy : implications for balloon commissurotomy . from 1967 to 1988 , 339 patients with mitral stenosis underwent surgical commissurotomy , 103 with a closed and 236 with an open technique . the 1 month and 1 , 5 , 10 and 20 year overall survival rate was 99.7 % , 99 % , 95 % , 87 % and 59 % , respectively , and the technique ( open versus closed ) was not a risk factor . technique was also not a risk factor for a second mitral commissurotomy , subsequent mitral valve replacement , thromboembolism or poor functional status . risk factors were older age at commissurotomy , black race , higher pulmonary vascular resistance , mitral leaflet calcification , left ventricular enlargement and postcommissurotomy mitral incompetence . the closed technique was a risk factor for mitral incompetence immediately after commissurotomy , but important incompetence developed in only 2 of the 103 patients undergoing closed commissurotomy . mitral valve replacement was not required within 10 years in 78 % of patients and within 20 years in 47 % . despite some increased prevalence of postcommissurotomy mitral incompetence and particularly in view of the considerable long-term likelihood of mitral valve replacement , initial therapy for most patients with mitral stenosis should probably be surgical closed ( or percutaneous balloon ) mitral commissurotomy . the equations developed in the present study can be used to predict and compare outcome probability after percutaneous balloon commissurotomy with that after surgical commissurotomy and to compare these with outcome probability after mitral valve replacement . 
spontaneous alterations in coronary blood flow velocity before and after coronary angioplasty in patients with severe angina . cyclic coronary artery flow variations with a spontaneous decline in coronary blood flow to very low levels have been documented in stenosed canine coronary arteries with endothelial injury . these flow variations are associated with transient platelet aggregation and dislodgment and the release of selected mediators , including thromboxane a2 and serotonin . however , cyclic or spontaneous flow variations have not been demonstrated in stenosed coronary arteries in humans . in this study , the hypothesis was tested that spontaneous coronary blood flow velocity variations occur in some patients with stenosed coronary arteries before or after coronary artery angioplasty . thus , 13 patients with severe and limiting angina underwent intracoronary pulsed doppler velocimetry of their dilated artery immediately before and after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty , whereas 9 control patients underwent velocimetry of an angiographically normal coronary artery . a 3f catheter with a 20 mhz doppler crystal was positioned to achieve a maximal stable signal , and the flow velocity signal was recorded continuously for 20 min . spontaneous flow velocity variations ( greater than or equal to 38 % change in doppler frequency shift with wide morphologic changes ) were present in 3 of the 13 patients tested . spontaneous flow velocity variations occurred before angioplasty in one patient , after angioplasty in another and both before and after angioplasty in a third . in addition , 2 of the 13 patients , 1 with spontaneous coronary artery flow velocity variations before angioplasty , had frank vasospasm in an adjacent area just distal to the area of coronary dilation immediately after balloon inflation . these data establish that spontaneous coronary artery flow velocity variations occur in some patients with severe and limiting angina before and after coronary angioplasty . these variations may be related to platelet aggregation or coronary vasoconstriction , or both , at sites of endothelial injury resulting from plaque fissuring or ulceration and endothelial and medial injury occurring during coronary angioplasty . 
elevated plasma beta-endorphin levels in patients with congestive heart failure recent experimental studies show that the opioid system is important to the pathophysiology of cardiovascular impairment in congestive heart failure . plasma beta-endorphin levels were measured in 37 patients with congestive heart failure and compared with those of 21 age - and gender-matched normal subjects . the relation of plasma beta-endorphin levels and cardiac function at rest and exercise capacity was assessed in 17 of the patients with dilated cardiomyopathy . exercise capacity was determined by symptom-limited maximal treadmill exercise with expired gas analysis . plasma beta-endorphin levels were elevated and correlated with the patients ' new york heart association functional cardiac status ( control : 14.0 + / - 4.4 pg/ml ; class ii : 17.9 + / - 3.6 pg/ml ; class iii : 28.3 + / - 8.8 pg/ml ; class iv : 46.7 + / - 14.6 pg/ml , mean + / - sd ) . no relation was found between plasma beta-endorphin levels and left ventricular systolic performance as assessed by m-mode and doppler echocardiography . plasma beta-endorphin levels were negatively correlated with cardiac output determined by doppler echocardiography and positively correlated with systemic vascular resistance ( r = -0.733 , r = 0.747 , respectively , both p less than 0.001 ) , but not correlated with calf blood flow as measured by a plethysmography . a good correlation was found between plasma beta-endorphin levels at rest and exercise capacity . the correlations with peak oxygen consumption , anaerobic threshold , and peak rate-pressure product were r = -0.721 , -0.672 , and -0.674 , respectively ( p less than 0.01 ) . the data show that plasma beta-endorphin levels are elevated in patients with congestive heart failure and reflect , to some degree , the severity of the disease . 
implications of echocardiographically assisted diagnosis of pericardial tamponade in contemporary medical patients : detection before hemodynamic embarrassment . identification of suspected pericardial tamponade and the decision to perform invasive drainage of the pericardial space have historically been based on classic bedside findings . two-dimensional echocardiography has improved detection of pericardial effusion , but it may be excessively sensitive in evaluation of patients for hemodynamic embarrassment . therefore , 50 consecutive medical patients were examined who were identified by echocardiography to have probable tamponade ( defined as the presence of right heart chamber collapse in the presence of a pericardial effusion ) and who underwent combined right-sided cardiac catheterization and percutaneous pericardiocentesis . all patients had elevated pericardial pressure . however , many had minimal evidence of hemodynamic compromise ( 94 % had systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 100 mm hg and 58 % had a cardiac index greater than or equal to 2.3 liters/min per m2 ) . pericardiocentesis resulted in hemodynamic improvement , but frequently did not alleviate dyspnea or correct tachycardia . patients with malignancy as the cause of tamponade had a high mortality rate ( the cumulative probability of survival in such patients was only 17 % at 1 year ) . echocardiographically assisted diagnosis of pericardial tamponade in medical patients results in the identification of a substantial subset of patients with only subtle evidence of hemodynamic compromise . this subset of patients differs sharply from medical patients described in previous reports with classic tamponade . although the patients can be managed by invasive catheter pericardiocentesis with few complications , the natural history and the optimal management strategy for this group are not resolved . 
superiority of transesophageal echocardiography in detecting cardiac source of embolism in patients with cerebral ischemia of uncertain etiology . the diagnostic yield of transesophageal and transthoracic echocardiography for identifying a cardiac source of embolism was compared in 79 patients presenting with unexplained stroke or transient ischemic attack . there were 35 men and 44 women with a mean age of 59 years ( range 17 to 84 ) ; 52 % had clinical cardiac disease . both transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiograms were performed using doppler color flow and contrast imaging . transesophageal echocardiography identified a potential cardiac source of embolism in 57 % of the overall study group compared with only 15 % by transthoracic echocardiography ( p less than 0.0005 ) . compared with transthoracic echocardiography , transesophageal echocardiography more frequently identified atrial septal aneurysm associated with a patent foramen ovale ( 9 versus 1 of 79 patients , p less than 0.005 ) , left atrial thrombus or tumor ( 6 versus 0 of 79 patients , p less than 0.05 ) and left atrial spontaneous contrast ( 13 versus 0 of 79 patients , p less than 0.0005 ) . all cases of left atrial thrombus or spontaneous contrast were identified in patients with clinically identified cardiac disease . in the 38 patients with no cardiac disease , transesophageal echocardiography identified isolated atrial septal aneurysm and atrial septal aneurysm with a patent foramen ovale more frequently than transthoracic echocardiography ( 8 versus 2 of 38 patients , p less than 0.05 ) . the two techniques had a similar rate of identifying apical thrombus and mitral valve prolapse . overall , transesophageal echocardiography identified abnormalities in 39 % of patients with no cardiac disease versus 19 % for transthoracic echocardiography ( p less than 0.005 ) . thus , transesophageal echocardiography identifies potential cardiac sources of embolism in the majority of patients presenting with unexplained stroke . 
recognition and embolic potential of intraaortic atherosclerotic debris . atherosclerotic disease of the thoracic aorta is common in the elderly and patients with clinical coronary artery disease . although embolization can occur from atherosclerotic debris within the thoracic aorta , it is not commonly considered in the differential diagnosis of the source of a systemic embolism . in the current study , the prevalence , clinical significance and embolic potential of intraaortic atherosclerotic debris as detected by transesophageal echocardiography was determined . intraaortic atherosclerotic debris was identified in 38 ( 7 % ) of 556 patients undergoing transesophageal echocardiography . an embolic event occurred among 11 ( 31 % ) of the 36 study patients with intraaortic atherosclerotic debris . the incidence of an embolic event was higher when the debris was pedunculated and highly mobile ( 8 [ 73 % ] of 11 patients ) than when it was layered and immobile ( 3 [ 12 % ] of 25 patients ) ( p less than 0.002 ) . among 15 patients undergoing an invasive procedure of the aorta , the incidence of embolism was 27 % . in conclusion , in a patient with an embolic event , the thoracic aorta should be considered as a potential source . transesophageal echocardiography can reliably detect intraaortic atherosclerotic debris , and when it is identified , an invasive aortic procedure should be avoided if possible . 
coronary arterial remodeling studied by high-frequency epicardial echocardiography : an early compensatory mechanism in patients with obstructive coronary atherosclerosis . coronary arterial remodeling is a compensatory mechanism that may limit the adverse effects of coronary obstructive lesions by expansion of the entire vascular segment . to determine if this compensatory anatomic change occurs in patients , high-frequency epicardial echocardiography using a 12 mhz transducer was performed during open heart surgery in 33 patients ( 10 with normal coronary arteries undergoing valvular surgery and 23 with coronary atherosclerosis ) . from stop-frame videotape high-frequency epicardial echocardiographic images , cross-sectional measurements of luminal area and total arterial area ( lumen , intima , media and dense adventitia ) were made in the patients with atherosclerosis at the site of arterial lesions and from the most proximal portion of the same artery . remodeling was defined as enlargement of the total arterial area . in normal arteries measurements were made from proximal and midarterial locations . in the patients with normal coronary arteries , total arterial area , as determined by high-frequency echocardiography , decreased from the proximal site to the midportion of the artery ( from 10.4 + / - 0.9 to 8.4 + / - 1.0 mm2 , p less than 0.05 ) ; luminal area also decreased ( from 6.0 + / - 0.6 to 4.5 + / - 0.7 mm2 , p less than 0.05 ) . in patients with coronary arterial lesions , luminal area also decreased from the proximal site to the arterial lesion site ( from 5.3 + / - 0.6 to 2.3 + / - 0.3 mm2 , p less than 0.05 ) , but total arterial area increased ( from 11.6 + / - 1.0 to 13.0 + / - 1.0 mm2 , p less than 0.05 ) . of the 25 coronary arteries evaluated , only 4 had angiographic evidence of coronary collateral formation . these data indicate that coronary arterial remodeling is an important compensatory mechanism in obstructive coronary disease . 
detection of coronary blood flow associated with left main coronary artery stenosis by transesophageal doppler color flow echocardiography . demonstration of disordered blood flow in a coronary artery may be helpful in anticipating the presence of stenosis . to examine the possibility of disordered coronary blood flow associated with left main coronary stenosis , left main coronary flow was visualized by transesophageal doppler color flow echocardiography in 52 patients undergoing coronary angiography . twenty patients had significant left main coronary stenosis ( group 1 ) and 32 patients did not ( group 2 ) . adequate two-dimensional echocardiographic images of the left main coronary artery were obtained in 17 patients in group 1 and 30 patients in group 2 . sixteen patients in group 1 , including five patients in whom the stenosis could not clearly be defined by two-dimensional echocardiography , exhibited the aliased reddish-yellowish elements producing the mosaic pattern at the stenotic or poststenotic segments , or both . in contrast , nonaliased bluish jets , suggesting laminar flow away from the transducer , were seen in echocardiograms from 27 patients in group 2 . this group included four patients with stenosis-like images on two-dimensional echocardiography . the aliased mosaic pattern was found in only three patients in group 2 ( p less than 0.01 ) . thus , sensitivity to detect the stenosis was improved when doppler color flow imaging was applied . flow velocity was significantly higher at the site of stenosis in patients in group 1 ( 116 + / - 28 cm/s , n = 10 , mean + / - sd ) than in group 2 ( 29 + / - 12 cm/s , n = 21 , p less than 0.01 ) , suggesting that the augmentation of flow velocity with or without turbulence due to the stenosis contributed to the appearance of the mosaic flow images . 
percutaneous coronary excimer laser-assisted balloon angioplasty : initial clinical and quantitative angiographic results in 50 patients . the initial clinical experience and quantitative angiographic results of percutaneous coronary excimer laser-assisted balloon angioplasty are described for 55 lesions in 50 patients . with use of a xenon chloride ( 308 nm ) excimer laser generator and 1.5 to 1.75 mm catheters , excimer laser angioplasty was attempted at 135 ns pulse width , 25 to 40 hz repetition rate , 2 to 5 s laser delivery time and 30 to 60 mj/mm2 energy fluence . laser success ( greater than 20 % reduction in absolute percent diameter stenosis ) was achieved in 41 ( 75 % ) of 55 lesions , with 100 % subsequent balloon angioplasty success ( less than 50 % residual stenosis ) . by quantitative digital caliper technique , the percent diameter stenosis ( mean + / - se ) was reduced from 81 + / - 1 % to 50 + / - 3 % after excimer laser angioplasty ( p less than 0.001 ) and to 20 + / - 1 % after balloon angioplasty ( p less than 0.001 ) ; minimal luminal diameter increased from 0.56 + / - 0.04 to 1.46 + / - 0.08 mm ( p less than 0.001 ) and 2.03 + / - 0.07 mm ( p less than 0.001 ) , respectively . by videodensitometric techniques , the percent area stenosis decreased from 86 + / - 2 % to 54 + / - 3 % after excimer angioplasty ( p less than 0.001 ) and to 26 + / - 3 % after balloon angioplasty ( p less than 0.001 ) . there were no perforations , need for emergency bypass surgery or deaths . the overall incidence of abrupt closure ( 3.6 % ) , dissection ( 1.8 % ) , embolization ( 1.8 % ) , filling defect ( 6 % ) , myocardial infarction ( 5.5 % ) , side branch occlusion ( 3.6 % ) or spasm ( 3.6 % ) was infrequent and more related to subsequent balloon angioplasty than to the laser procedure . 
is routine preoperative hemodynamic evaluation of nonagenarians necessary ? an incidence of co-morbid cardiac disease in the elderly surgical patient as high as 66 % has been previously reported . even in the absence of clinically significant cardiac disease , advanced age alone is often considered sufficient indication for swan-ganz placement , hemodynamic evaluation , adjustment of fluid states , and inotropic support . yet data clearly documenting the need for this evaluation and therapy are difficult to obtain . all major general surgical and orthopedic operations in non-agenarians were reviewed in our institution from july 1 , 1987 through december 31 , 1988 . fifty-one procedures were performed on 46 patients . none of these patients had preoperative swan-ganz catheterization or hemodynamic evaluation . eighteen general surgical , 30 orthopedic , 2 neurosurgical , and 1 gynecological procedures were performed . forty-three were performed under general anesthesia , 7 under spinal anesthesia , and 1 with local anesthesia . seven out of 51 patients ( 14 % ) experienced major complications , and 16 out of 51 ( 31 % ) experienced minor complications . thirty-day mortality was 0 % , and 6-month survival was 92 % . only one complication occurred within 48 hours of surgery that might possibly have been prevented with hemodynamic evaluation , adjustment of fluid status , inotropic support , and intensive care unit monitoring . 
forearm blood flow response to posture change in the very old : non-invasive measurement by venous occlusion plethysmography . little is known about the peripheral vascular response to posture change in very elderly people who are vulnerable to the development of orthostatic hypotension . this is due , in part , to the risks of currently utilized invasive vascular monitoring techniques in the elderly population . we studied the forearm vascular response to active standing in 18 healthy young , 10 healthy old , and 19 impaired elderly subjects , using the non-invasive technique of venous occlusion plethysmography . in six subjects this technique was compared to duplex doppler ultrasonography for the measurement of postural changes in forearm blood flow . forearm blood flow changes determined by venous occlusion plethysmography were 11 % larger than doppler measurements , but the two methods strongly correlated ( r = 0.90 , p less than .001 ) . mean forearm vascular resistance increased to a significantly greater extent at 1 minute of standing in young subjects than in both groups of old , although the response was quite variable in all groups . two healthy elderly ( 20 % ) and eight impaired elderly ( 40 % ) subjects had unexpected forearm vasodilatation at 1 minute of standing . by 3 minutes , forearm vascular resistance had increased by similar amounts in all three groups of subjects . five impaired elderly and no healthy young or healthy old subjects had orthostatic hypotension , defined as greater than or equal to 10 mm hg decline in mean arterial blood pressure at 1 or 3 minutes of standing . forearm vascular resistance changes did not correlate with blood pressure response to standing . thus , forearm vascular response to 1 minute of active standing is attenuated in many elderly subjects . this abnormality may impair adaptation to orthostatic stress in advanced age . 
ostium secundum atrial septal defect in the elderly . atrial septal defect ( asd ) is one of the most common congenital cardiac anomalies in adults . life expectancy is shortened , and almost 90 % of patients die by the age of 60 years . the progression of this congenital disease to congestive heart failure has been related to several factors such as the onset of pulmonary hypertension , arrhythmias , bronchopulmonary infections , or the development of other cardiovascular disease . we describe three cases of very old patients with significant asds and late development of symptoms . given the higher risks and poorer long-term results of surgical closure of the defect in advanced age , the indications for such an intervention in elderly patients should be carefully evaluated . 
extracorporeal renal artery reconstruction for renovascular hypertension . extracorporeal reconstruction can be applied to the successful repair of stenoses in the distal renal artery and its hilar branches . this study evaluates the short - and long-term results of extracorporeal renal artery reconstruction in 65 patients , including 5 children , with renovascular hypertension who were treated from 1974 through 1989 . the mean age of the patients was 37 years ( range , 7 to 67 years ) . the cause of the stenoses was arteriosclerosis in 8 patients , fibrodysplasia in 54 patients , and miscellaneous in 3 . hypertension was severe before treatment with a mean blood pressure of 187/147 mm hg that was reduced to a mean of 159/102 mm hg after medical therapy . ten patients had renal dysfunction . results were evaluated both at short-term intervals ( mean , 7.9 months ; 64 patients ) and long-term intervals ( mean , 5.9 years ; 60 patients ) , after surgery . blood pressure responses were classified as beneficial ( cured/improved ) or failures . anatomic results were evaluated by angiography in 98 % of the patients at the short-term interval and in 77 % of the patients at the long-term interval . extracorporeal renal artery surgery was performed on 78 kidneys among 65 patients ( unilateral , 45 patients ; bilateral , 13 patients ; unilateral extracorporeal and contralateral in situ , 7 patients ) . in most of the cases autologous arterial graft was used for reconstruction . early in the series one patient died as a result of the operative procedure ( 1/65 , 1.5 % ) . a beneficial blood pressure response occurred in 53 patients ( 53/65 ; 82 % ) at the short-term interval and in 49 patients ( 49/61 ; 80 % ) at the long-term interval , with the average blood pressure at the short-term interval being 138/85 mm hg and at the long-term interval being 139/85 mm hg . renal function improved in all patients with preoperative renal dysfunction . graft stenosis or occlusion of the main renal artery was neither observed at the short-term interval nor at the long-term interval . however , residual stenoses were observed in 9 of the 163 reconstructed distal branches ( 5.5 % ) . extracorporeal renal artery reconstruction with autologous arterial grafts can be effectively applied to lesions of the distal main renal artery and its hilar branches with durable functional results . 
the clinical course of residual carotid arterial disease . over a 5-year period 642 patients underwent 686 carotid endarterectomies with patch closure and intraoperative surveillance with continuous-wave doppler . the perioperative stroke rate was 1.5 % . patients were screened with duplex scans immediately after operation for the presence of residual carotid lesions , and followed every 3 to 6 months for either the development of a true recurrent lesion or a change in a residual one . five hundred thirty-nine arteries ( 84 % ) had no postoperative abnormalities . the incidence of recurrent carotid lesions in this groups was 1.5 % , 3.4 % , and 5.2 % at 1 , 2 , and 3 years , respectively . the incidence of symptoms in this group was 0.2 % , 0.7 % , and 1.4 % at 1 , 2 , and 3 years , respectively . the earliest recurrence or symptom occurred 8 months from operation . one hundred forty-seven arteries had residual lesions that were more common when either a temporary shunt was used or the operation was carried out above the hypoglossal nerve or below the omohyoid muscle . sixty-one patients who had plaque proximal to the arteriotomy without a significant stenosis were followed an average of 21 months . there were no changes in plaque morphology and no proven symptoms related to the residual lesion . fifty-six patients with both plaque and significant hemodynamic abnormalities in the carotid bulb were followed an average of 18 months . seven of these patients ( 12.5 % ) had either a significant deterioration of the lesion or a symptom from it . each event occurred within 6 months of operation . thirty patients had significant flow abnormalities but no visible plaque . none of these lesions deteriorated . although common , residual carotid lesions are benign unless the lesion is characterized by both plaque within the artery and a hemodynamically significant stenosis . these lesions should be further investigated and treated when discovered . 
long-term follow-up of patients operated on for recurrent carotid stenosis . we reviewed our experience with 29 operations for recurrent carotid stenosis in 27 patients who underwent both their primary carotid endarterectomy and their reoperations at our institution . these 27 patients represent 4 % of the 667 patients who underwent primary carotid endarterectomies at our institution and who are included in our carotid follow-up registry . reoperation was prompted by recurrent symptoms in 19/29 ( 65.5 % ) cases . comparison of long-term stroke prevention in those patients who did ( 84 % at 5 years , 78.6 % at 10 years ) and did not ( 90.3 % at 5 years , 83.6 % at 10 years ) develop recurrent stenosis requiring reoperation revealed no statistically significant difference ( p = 0.48 ) when measured from the time of primary operation . the perioperative stroke and death rates for reoperation ( 3.4 % and 0 % ) were acceptable . we conclude that with our acceptably low perioperative stroke morbidity ( 3.4 % ) , surgery for recurrent carotid stenosis in symptomatic patients or in asymptomatic patients with high-grade ( greater than or equal to 75 % ) stenosis maintains the durable stroke prevention offered by primary carotid endarterectomy . 
the association of elevated plasma homocyst ( e ) ine with progression of symptomatic peripheral arterial disease . plasma homocyst ( e ) ine ( the sum of free and bound homocysteine , homocystine , and the mixed disulfide homocysteine-cysteine , expressed as homocysteine ) levels were determined by high performance liquid chromatography in 214 patients with symptomatic ( claudication , rest pain , gangrene , amputation ) lower extremity arterial occlusive disease and/or symptomatic ( stroke , cerebral transient ischemic attacks ) cerebral vascular disease and in 103 control persons . mean plasma homocyst ( e ) ine was significantly higher in patients than in controls ( 14.37 + / - 6.89 nmol/ml vs 10.10 + / - 2.16 , p less than 0.05 ) . thirty-nine percent of patients ( 83 of 214 ) had plasma homocyst ( e ) ine values greater than control mean + 2 standard deviations . plasma homocyst ( e ) ine values were contrasted to age , male sex , diabetes , hypertension , smoking , renal failure , and plasma cholesterol . no difference was found in the incidence and/or level of any of these risk factors when patients with normal plasma homocyst ( e ) ine were compared to those with elevated plasma homocyst ( e ) ine , both by univariate and multivariate analysis . patients with elevated plasma homocyst ( e ) ine were more likely to demonstrate clinical progression of lower extremity disease and of coronary artery disease , but not of cerebral vascular disease than were patients with normal plasma homocyst ( e ) ine , and the rate of progression was more rapid ( p = 0.002 ) . progression of lower extremity disease as assessed in the vascular laboratory was also more common in patients with elevated plasma homocyst ( e ) ine ( p = 0.01 ) . we conclude that elevated plasma homocyst ( e ) ine is an independent risk factor for symptomatic lower extremity disease or cerebral vascular disease or both . symptomatic patients with lower extremity disease and with elevated plasma homocyst ( e ) ine also appear to have more rapid progression of disease . 
experience with in situ saphenous vein bypasses during 1981 to 1989 : determinant factors of long-term patency . from 1981 to 1989 , 361 consecutive in situ saphenous vein bypasses were performed . indications for revascularization were critical limb ischemia ( n = 335 , 93 % ) , popliteal aneurysm ( n = 15 , 4 % ) , and claudication ( n = 11 , 3 % ) . outflow tract was the popliteal artery in 116 ( 32 % ) and tibial artery in 245 ( 68 % ) of bypasses . at 6 years primary patency was 63 % and secondary patency was 81 % . during the performance of the in situ bypass procedure , 86 ( 24 % ) venous conduits were modified because of a technical failure ( n = 49 , 13 % ) or an inadequate vein segment ( n = 37 , 10 % ) . secondary patency at 4 years for bypasses requiring modification was 72 % compared to 84 % for bypasses not modified ( p less than 0.05 ) . atherosclerotic disease of the inflow artery necessitating endarterectomy , patch angioplasty , or replacement lowered primary patency at 3 years ( 69 % ) compared to the inflow artery not requiring reconstruction ( 46 % , p less than 0.02 ) . in the follow-up period , 95 ( 26 % ) bypasses were revised because of thrombosis or hemodynamic failure . bypasses requiring revision had a 4-year secondary patency of 68 % compared to 88 % for bypasses not revised ( p less than 0.02 ) . the first 179 cases ( 1981 to 1985 ) were compared to the subsequent 182 cases ( 1986 to 1989 ) . the secondary patency at 3 years for the latter half ( 92 % ) compared to the first half ( 80 % ) of the experience was significantly improved ( p less than 0.02 ) . the secondary patency for bypasses not requiring revision was significantly improved ( p less than 0.02 ) for the latter half ( n = 142 , 97 % ) compared to the first half ( n = 124 , 83 % ) of the series . long-term patency with the in situ saphenous vein bypass is dependent on surgical experience , quality of the venous conduit , and atherosclerotic disease of the inflow artery that necessitates reconstruction . meticulous surgical technique and compulsive bypass surveillance results in superior long-term patency . 
treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysm by exclusion and bypass : an analysis of outcome . abdominal aortic aneurysm is conventionally treated by aneurysmorrhaphy with inlying graft . alternatively , division of the aorta , with suture closure of the distal aorta and outflow vessels ( exclusion of the aneurysm ) , and end-to-end proximal to distal bypass may be performed . however , the long-term fate of this operation has not been determined . specifically , concern exists that the excluded blood filled aneurysm may not thrombose or may be the source of late sepsis . during an 8-year period we have treated 280 abdominal aortic aneurysms ( urgent and elective ) by exclusion of the abdominal aortic aneurysm sac and bypass via the posterolateral retroperitoneal approach . mean age was 70 years ( range , 44 to 88 ) , with 217 men and 63 women . preoperative ct scanning and aortography were performed to assess arterial anatomy . seventy tube grafts and 260 bifurcation grafts were used . thirty-day mortality rate was 4 % . estimated blood loss was 731 + / - 52 ml ; mean transfusion requirements were 456 + / - 82 ml . the minor complication rate was 6 % , and it is of great interest that there were no cases of ischemic colitis requiring colectomy . aneurysm sacs thrombosed except in two anticoagulated patients who required further treatment . no late infections occurred . five-year bypass patency rate was 98 % . these data demonstrate that this method of treatment effectively minimized operative dissection and blood loss and therefore is a viable alternative for the management of abdominal aortic aneurysms . 
angiographic localization of spinal cord blood supply and its relationship to postoperative paraplegia . forty-seven patients underwent selective catheterization of middle and lower thoracic intercostal and upper lumbar arteries to define the origin of the artery of adamkiewicz . one patient had significant atheroembolism , and a second had transient lower extremity paresthesias . no other complications occurred . the origin was found in 26 ( 55 % ) , and 21 patients underwent thoracoabdominal aneurysm repair with this knowledge . when the critical lumbar or intercostal artery could be included as part of a long proximal or distal anastomosis , all 12 patients could be included as part of a long proximal or distal anastomosis , all 12 patients survived , and one was paralyzed . however , if the aneurysm repair mandated a midgraft anastomosis to intercostal arteries critical to spinal cord perfusion , seven of nine patients either died or were paralyzed ( p less than 0.05 ) . in the group of 19 patients operated on in whom spinal cord blood supply was not identified three patients had a technically unsuccessful operation ; two died , and one was paralyzed . twelve of 16 patients who had an adequate , but unsuccessful attempt at localization were treated by intercostal " neglect " and survived . late paresis developed in two patients , but they are walking now . one of the patients who died had multiple systems failure and awakened paraplegic . she had a patent , enlarged , thoracic radicular artery at t-5 which probably supplied to spinal cord and which was missed angiographically . paralysis was associated with aneurysm extent ( group 2 and iii b , dissections vs group 1 & 3 , p less than 0.05 ) . selective intercostal angiography requires further refinement , but it is safe and offers the promise of understanding the mechanisms and risks of spinal cord complications after repair of extensive thoracoabdominal aneurysms . 
a prospective randomized study of cerebrospinal fluid drainage to prevent paraplegia after high-risk surgery on the thoracoabdominal aorta . this article is concerned with the study of the effect of several variables , principally that of cerebrospinal fluid drainage , on the incidence of neurologic deficit in a prospective randomized series of patients with extensive aneurysms of the descending thoracic and abdominal aorta ( thoracoabdominal type i and ii ) . forty-six patients had cerebrospinal fluid drainage , and 52 were controls , with a total of 98 available for study . cerebrospinal fluid pressure was continuously monitored in the former group and pressure maintained less than or equal to 10 mm hg in 20 , less than or equal to 15 mm hg in 20 , and greater than 15 mm hg in 6 patients during period of aortic clamping . the method of treatment including reattachment of intercostal and lumbar arteries ( p = 0.2 ) , temporary atriofemoral bypass during aortic occlusion ( p = 0.3 ) , and spinal fluid drainage ( p = 0.8 ) were not statistically significant in reducing the incidence of neurologic deficits . thus cerebrospinal fluid drainage as we used it , was not beneficial in preventing paraplegia . on appropriate statistical analysis we found that the only significant predictor of delayed deficits was postoperative hypotension ( p = 0.006 ) . 
arterial aneurysms in children : clinicopathologic classification . thirty-one arterial macroaneurysms in 23 pediatric-aged patients ( 16 boys and 7 girls ) were treated at the university of michigan . the average age at time of diagnosis was 10.2 years ( range 6 months to 18 years ) . vessels involved the aorta ( 4 ) , as well as hepatic ( 1 ) , splenic ( 2 ) , gastroepiploic ( 1 ) , renal ( 12 ) , iliac ( 1 ) , superficial femoral ( 4 ) , popliteal ( 1 ) , brachial ( 1 ) , radial ( 2 ) , and ulnar ( 2 ) arteries . twelve children exhibited overt clinical manifestations including presence of a mass ( 7 ) , local pain ( 3 ) , hematemesis ( 1 ) , and painless obstructive jaundice ( 1 ) . eleven children had asymptomatic lesions . aneurysm existence was confirmed by arteriography or operation . all but one child underwent surgical therapy , with 20 long-term survivors ( mean follow-up 3.5 years ) . one operative death occurred and one death occurred 6 years after surgery . this experience and a review of previously reported cases served as a basis for categorization of childhood aneurysmal disease as true aneurysms associated with ( i ) arterial infection , ( ii ) giant-cell aortoarteritis , ( iii ) autoimmune connective tissue disease , ( iv ) kawasaki 's disease , ( v ) ehlers-danlos syndrome or marfan 's syndrome , ( vi ) other forms of noninflammatory medial degeneration , ( vii ) arterial dysplasias , ( viii ) congenital-idiopathic factors , as well as ( ix ) false aneurysms associated with extravascular events causing vessel wall injury or disruption . knowledge of the varied clinicopathologic characteristics of arterial aneurysms in children is important in treating these patients . 
a clinically applicable method for long-term salvage of postischemic skeletal muscle . the clinical significance and applicability of interventions aimed at reducing reperfusion injury in postischemic skeletal muscle remain unproven , since long-term muscle salvage has not been demonstrated by most treatment protocols that attenuate early reperfusion injury . we have shown that reperfusion of ischemic skeletal muscle results in an early and prolonged sequestration of white blood cells and activation of the alternative complement cascade . the purpose of this study was to determine if 40 minutes of reperfusion with blood depleted of white blood cells and complement proteins , followed by 2 days of normal perfusion , would reduce muscle necrosis after 5 hours of ischemia . the isolated paired canine gracilis muscle model was used . the treatment muscle was initially reperfused with arterial blood that had been spun , washed , passed through a leukocyte removal filter , and resuspended in hydroxyethyl starch ( greater than 99.9 % removal of white blood cells and the complement proteins factor b and c4 ) . the contralateral control muscle was subjected to unaltered reperfusion . blood flow ( ml/min/100 gm ) was measured by timed collection of gracilis venous blood . myeloperoxidase activity ( absorbance at 655 nm/min/mg tissue protein ) in muscle biopsies was used to monitor white blood cell sequestration . after 48 hours of reperfusion in vivo , necrosis was quantified by nitroblue tetrazolium staining . initial reperfusion with white blood cell and complement depleted blood significantly reduced muscle necrosis ( 53 % + / - 3 % vs 29 % + / - 8 % , p less than 0.0025 , paired t test ) . early blood flow was improved , ( p = 0.0025 , repeated measure-anova ) , but subsequent white blood cell sequestration was not altered ( p = 0.33 , repeated measure-anova ) . this suggests that a significant amount of white blood cell mediated injury occurs during the first 40 minutes of reperfusion . preventing early complement activation and white blood cell mediated reperfusion injury is an intervention that is feasible during surgery and may result in clinically significant salvage of postischemic skeletal muscle . 
the role of duplex scanning in the selection of patients for transluminal angioplasty . as part of our initial evaluation to determine whether patients with lower extremity ischemia are candidates for intervention , arterial duplex examinations are performed in the noninvasive vascular laboratory . patients with isolated short stenoses on the duplex examination are referred for transluminal angioplasty . one hundred thirty-four arteriograms were performed for ischemic peripheral vascular disease in 122 patients between july 1987 and march 1990 . one hundred ten ( 82 % ) of the arteriograms were preceded by a lower extremity arterial duplex evaluation . fifty cases ( 45 % ) were scheduled for transluminal angioplasty based on the findings of the duplex examination . transluminal angioplasty was performed in 47 of 50 cases ( 94 % ) . no significant differences in age , sex , or diabetes were found between the patients who were referred for transluminal angioplasty and those who were not . these data demonstrate that duplex scanning of the lower extremities allows the detection of lesions that will be amenable to transluminal angioplasty . we think that duplex scanning should become the standard screening tool for detection of treatable lower extremity lesions . 
ultrasound screening of first-degree relatives of patients with an abdominal aortic aneurysm . the pedigrees were constructed of 43 patients ( probands ) who underwent resection of an abdominal aortic aneurysm . seven probands ( 16.2 % ) had a first-degree relative ( parent , sibling , child ) known to have had an abdominal aortic aneurysm ( multiplex family ) . to determine the prevalence of undiagnosed abdominal aortic aneurysm , ultrasound screening of first-degree relatives over age 40 years was undertaken . of 202 eligible relatives , 103 ( 51.0 % ) were screened . an occult abdominal aortic aneurysm was defined as an infrarenal aortic diameter greater than 3.0 cm or an infrarenal/suprarenal aortic diameter ratio of greater than 1.5 . an incipient abdominal aortic aneurysm was defined as a clear focal bulge of the infrarenal aorta , which was less than 3.0 cm in greatest diameter . four of 103 relatives ( 3.9 % ) were found to have an occult abdominal aortic aneurysm ( age/sex : 57m , 60m , 62f , 65m ) , and three ( 2.9 % ) were found with an incipient abdominal aortic aneurysm ( age/sex : 56m , 60m , 67f ) . these smaller abdominal aortic aneurysms were in patients younger than the operated probands ( average age men , 67 years ; women , 69 years ) . six of seven individuals were in families previously considered simplex , increasing the actual multiplex family frequency from 16.2 % to 27.9 % . all seven new abdominal aortic aneurysms were found in the 49 siblings age 55 years or older . there were no abdominal aortic aneurysms found in the 39 relatives under age 55 years , in 14 children ages 50 to 59 years or in one parent . therefore of the siblings age 55 years or older , 5/20 men ( 25.0 % ) and 2/29 women ( 6.9 % ) were found to have a previously undiagnosed abdominal aortic aneurysm . 
the influence of elastic compression stockings on deep venous hemodynamics . to determine the effect of elastic compression stockings on deep venous hemodynamics we measured ambulatory venous pressure , venous refill time , maximum venous pressure with exercise , amplitude of venous pressure excursion , and duplex-derived common femoral and popliteal vein diameter and peak flow velocities with and without stockings in 10 healthy subjects and 16 patients with chronic deep venous insufficiency . the effects of below-knee and above-knee 30 to 40 torr and 40 to 50 torr gradient stockings were studied . despite documentation of substantial stocking compressive effects by skin pressure measurements , neither below-knee or above-knee elastic compression stockings significantly improved ambulatory venous pressure , venous refill time , maximum venous pressure with exercise , or the amplitude of venous pressure excursion in healthy patients or in patients with deep venous insufficiency ( p greater than 0.05 ) . in patients with deep venous insufficiency stockings modestly increased popliteal vein diameter and flow velocity in the upright resting position ( p less than 0.02 ) . after tiptoe exercise without stockings deep venous peak flow velocity increased in healthy patients and in patients with deep venous insufficiency by a mean of 103 % in the popliteal vein and 46 % in the common femoral vein ( p less than 0.01 ) . with the application of elastic compression stockings only modest augmentation of deep venous flow velocity occurred in both groups above that seen in the bare leg after exercise . thus elastic compression stockings did not improve deep venous hemodynamic measurements in patients with deep venous insufficiency . the beneficial effects of stockings in the treatment of deep venous insufficiency must relate to effects other than changes in deep venous hemodynamics . 
the association of skin color with blood pressure in us blacks with low socioeconomic status to determine the association of skin color , measured by a reflectometer , with blood pressure in us blacks , we studied a community sample of 457 blacks from three us cities . persons taking antihypertensive medications were excluded . both systolic and diastolic blood pressure were higher in darker persons and increased by 2 mm hg for every 1-sd increase in skin darkness . however , the association was dependent on socioeconomic status , whether measured by education or an index consisting of education , occupation , and ethnicity , being present only in person with lower levels of either indicator . using multiple linear regression , both systolic and diastolic blood pressure remained significantly associated with darker skin color in the lower levels of socioeconomic status , independent of age , body mass index , and concentrations of blood glucose , serum urea nitrogen , serum uric acid , and urinary sodium and potassium . the association of skin color with blood pressure only in low socioeconomic strata may be due to the lesser ability of such groups to deal with the psychosocial stress associated with darker skin color . however , these findings also are consistent with an interaction between an environmental factor associated with low socioeconomic status and a susceptible gene that has a higher prevalence in persons with darker skin color . 
why is diabetes mellitus a stronger risk factor for fatal ischemic heart disease in women than in men ? the rancho bernardo study [ published erratum appears in jama 1991 jun 26 ; 265 ( 24 ) :3249 ] we report here the 14-year sex-specific effect of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus on the risk of fatal ischemic heart disease in a geographically defined population of men and women aged 40 through 79 years . there were 207 men and 127 women who had diabetes at baseline based on medical history or fasting hyperglycemia . they were compared with 2137 adults who had fasting euglycemia and a negative personal and family history of diabetes . the relative hazard of ischemic heart disease death in diabetics vs nondiabetics was 1.8 in men and 3.3 in women , after adjusting for age , and 1.9 and 3.3 , respectively , after adjusting for age , systolic blood pressure , cholesterol , body mass index , and cigarette smoking using the cox regression model . the sex difference in the independent contribution of diabetes to fatal heart disease was largely explained by the persistently more favorable survival rate of women ( than men ) without diabetes . 
a successful treatment of an intrarenal arteriovenous fistula by percutaneous embolization . a 37-year-old woman patient , known to have poorly controlled arterial hypertension that was diagnosed following a cerebrovascular accident at the age of 15 years , was referred to our outpatient clinic for investigation in 1987 . an intrarenal arteriovenous fistula was diagnosed by selective renal angiography . embolization of the fistula was performed using four 15-mm/5-cm coils , which induced thrombosis and obstructed the fistula . the vascularization of the affected kidney improved immediately . during the following 4 months , the antihypertensive treatment was stopped gradually , and the patient remained normotensive . this is an unusual case of a large intrarenal arteriovenous fistula , whose etiology was not clear , that was successfully treated by percutaneous embolization . 
pharmacologic stress imaging . pharmacologic stress imaging has increasingly been employed as an alternative to exercise imaging for detection of coronary artery disease and risk stratification particularly in patients who are unable to perform adequate exercise . sensitivity and specificity of thallium 201 scintigraphy using intravenous dipyridamole infusion as a stress for coronary artery disease detection average 85 % and 91 % , respectively . dipyridamole imaging is also useful for differentiating between ischemia and scar and identifying patients who have an increased risk for subsequent cardiac events . dipyridamole imaging is particularly useful for preoperative risk stratification in patients undergoing surgery for peripheral vascular or aortic disease . dipyridamole imaging is also useful for identifying residual myocardial ischemia after myocardial infarction and detecting restenosis after coronary angioplasty . adverse side effects of dipyridamole are promptly reversed by aminophylline . dipyridamole stress can also be employed in association with echocardiography for detection of ischemia-induced regional wall motion abnormalities . 
elderly men with histories of heavy drinking : correlates and consequences . recognition that the physical , psychological and social consequences of substance abuse may persist throughout the life span has led to increased study of the impact of lifetime drinking habits on the elderly . we examined the characteristics of elderly men with self-reported histories of having ever been heavy drinker ( h + ) in a population-based ( n = 1,155 , mean age = 73.7 years ) longitudinal survey of community-dwelling elders ; 10.4 % of the men reported that they had been heavy drinkers at some time during their lives . h + men were younger and less educated than non-heavy drinkers ( h - ) or never drinkers ( n ) . mortality was higher among h + men who were current drinkers than among h - or n men . h + men reported more major illnesses , poorer self-perceived health status , more physician visits , more depressive symptoms , lower levels of life satisfaction and smaller social networks than did h - or n men . self-reported ability to perform activities of daily living and instrumental activities of daily living was poorest among h + men , who also scored the lowest on a mental status examination . thus , a history of having ever been a heavy drinker is predictive of widespread impairments in physical , psychological and social health and functioning among elderly men . 
the erythrocyte sedimentation rate in congestive heart failure . background and methods . physicians have long believed that the erythrocyte sedimentation rate is low in patients with congestive heart failure , but this concept is based on a misinterpretation of the results in a single report published in 1936 . to reevaluate this concept in the modern era , we measured the sedimentation rate in 242 patients who were referred for treatment of chronic heart failure . results . the sedimentation rate was low ( less than 5 mm per hour ) in only 24 patients ( 10 percent ) but was increased ( above 25 mm per hour ) in 50 percent . patients with low or normal sedimentation rates ( less than or equal to 25 mm per hour ) had more severe hemodynamic abnormalities than patients with elevated rates : lower cardiac index ( mean + / - sem , 1.7 + / - 0.1 vs. 2.0 + / - 0.1 liters per minute per square meter of body-surface area ) and higher mean right atrial pressure ( mean + / - sem , 12 + / - 1 vs. 9 + / - 1 mm hg ) ( both p less than 0.0001 ) . new york heart association functional class iv symptoms were present in 66 percent of the patients with a low or normal sedimentation rate , as compared with 42 percent of those with elevated rates ( p less than 0.0001 ) . after one to three months of therapy , patients whose sedimentation rates decreased showed little hemodynamic or clinical response to treatment , whereas both cardiac performance and functional status improved in patients whose rates increased ( p less than 0.02 for the comparison between groups ) . the sedimentation rate was correlated with the plasma fibrinogen level ( r = 0.64 , p = 0.0025 ) , and changes in the sedimentation rate during treatment were correlated inversely with changes in mean right atrial pressure ( r = -0.57 , p = 0.0002 ) . during long-term follow-up , patients with low or normal sedimentation rates had a worse one-year survival than patients with elevated rates ( 41 vs. 66 percent , p = 0.01 ) . conclusions . these data indicate that the erythrocyte sedimentation rate is correlated with the severity of illness in patients with chronic heart failure . because of its lack of discriminatory power , however , the test is of limited value in the clinical management of this disorder . 
acute myocarditis simulating myocardial infarction in a child . pediatric chest pain usually occurs in benign conditions . however , this case portrays the dramatic electrocardiographic appearance of acute myocardial ischemia in a boy with biopsy-proven myocarditis who had only mild chest pain . this underscores the need for eliciting a detailed history when evaluating a patient with chest pain . if the pain can not be clearly attributed to chest wall phenomena , or if there are historical or physical findings suggestive of an arrhythmia or angina , then further investigation with a chest radiograph and a 12-lead electrocardiogram is recommended . myocarditis must be considered in the differential diagnosis of any child whose electrocardiogram is indistinguishable from an acute myocardial infarction . finally , endomyocardial biopsy allows early diagnosis and institution of therapy , which may have beneficial effect on decreasing morbidity and mortality . further follow-up and research is still needed to evaluate the effect of early treatment of myocarditis on long-term myocardial function and the development of chronic cardiomyopathy . 
circadian rhythms in blood pressure in school-age children of normotensive and hypertensive parents . the purpose of this study was to describe the characteristics of blood pressure rhythms in school-age children and to compare the circadian mesors and amplitudes between children of normotensive parents and children of hypertensive parents . the sample consisted of 40 healthy children between 8 and 10 years old ; 20 children had a parental history of hypertension and 20 did not . blood pressure was measured every 2 hours during the day and every 90 minutes during the night for one 24-hour cycle using a dinamap monitor equipped with an automatic printer . cosinor analyses revealed statistically significant circadian rhythms for systolic and diastolic blood pressures in 12 of the 40 subjects . the acrophases for systolic and diastolic pressures occurred between 1200-1800 hours . the mean systolic mesor was 108.50 while the mean diastolic mesor was 61.41 . the mean amplitudes were 8.85 for systolic pressure and 7.44 for diastolic pressure . no statistically significant differences in circadian mesors and amplitudes between children of normotensive parents and children of hypertensive parents were found . 
laser angioplasty : results of a prospective , multicenter study at 3-year follow-up . a prospective multicenter trial was initiated to evaluate the efficacy and safety of laser angioplasty . laser recanalization was performed in 338 patients with arteriosclerotic femoropopliteal artery occlusions ( average length , 8.5 cm ) . neodymium-yttrium-aluminum-garnet lasers were used in combination with sapphire probe catheters . the initial recanalization rate was 85 % . complications were observed in 14 % of the patients . emergency surgery was required in 1.5 % . the cumulative long-term patency rate of the successfully recanalized arteries was 80 % , 70 % , 62 % , and 57 % at 6 months , 1 year , and 2 and 3 years , respectively . the patency rates were not affected by the length of the occlusion and the long-term medication ( platelet inhibition vs anticoagulation ) , but patients with a normal runoff had significantly better patency rates than those with reduced runoff ( 63 % vs 52 % , p less than .01 ) . the study has shown that laser-assisted angioplasty is safe and at least as effective as conventional angioplasty . 
delayed rupture of a pseudoaneurysm of the costocervical trunk : treatment with therapeutic embolization . fourteen days after removal of an internal jugular catheter inserted prior to renal transplantation , a patient presented with brisk arterial hemorrhage from the insertion site . the hemorrhage , caused by a ruptured pseudoaneurysm of the costocervical trunk , was controlled by transcatheter embolization with gelatin particles . one year later the patient reported no problems related to the pseudoaneurysm or its management . 
hepatic arterial embolization in cases of extensive celiac arterial stenosis . transarterial hepatic embolization was attempted in 10 and succeeded in nine patients with hepatocellular carcinoma accompanied by extensive celiac arterial stenosis . all catheterization was done through the femoral artery . in six cases , the tip of the catheter ( 2.5-f ball-tip microcatheter in three cases , 4-f ball-tip supple catheter in three cases ) was placed in the proper hepatic artery through the pancreaticoduodenal collaterals . in three cases , a ball-tip microcatheter was injected from the guiding catheter , which was placed in a pinhole of the celiac trunk . these techniques involving flow-guided ball-tip catheters are of great value for hepatic arterial catheterization in cases of extensive celiac arterial stenosis . 
cineangiography of the heart in a single breath hold with a segmented turboflash sequence . six healthy volunteers and three patients with cardiac anomalies were studied in a comparison of segmented turboflash ( fast low-angle shot ) cine , a method of magnetic resonance imaging that permits an entire series of high-resolution cine images to be obtained in one breath hold , with standard cine . segmented turboflash uses a gradient-echo sequence designed for short imaging times in combination with a segmented data acquisition method . presaturation pulses were applied to eliminate the blood pool signal ; the signal-to-noise ratio was assessed with a phantom . standard hardware and image reconstruction methods were used . the breath-hold images consistently showed reduced ghosting and blurring from respiration . because a very short echo time was used , segmented turboflash was relatively insensitive to dephasing caused by local field disturbances or flow . the authors conclude that , by reducing imaging times and eliminating respiratory artifact , segmented turboflash can be useful for performing cine studies of the heart and great vessels . 
gastric antral vascular ectasia ( " watermelon stomach " ) : radiologic findings . radiologic findings in a patient with gastric antral vascular ectasia are described on computed tomographic scans , upper gastrointestinal series , and specimen radiographs . findings include prominent , scalloped antral folds radiating to the pylorus and thickening of the gastric antrum . pathognomonic red vascular folds , likened to stripes on a watermelon , can be seen endoscopically . 
gynecologic vascular abnormalities : diagnosis with doppler us . the authors describe the use of duplex and/or color doppler ultrasonography of the pelvis in three women to demonstrate the presence of venous malformations . one patient with a pulsatile vaginal mass was shown to have an arteriovenous malformation of the vaginal wall . the second patient was shown to have an unsuspected venous angioma in the endometrial cavity . the third patient was shown to have adnexal varices that closely mimicked hydrosalpinx . in the latter two cases , the duplex and color flow capabilities of an endovaginal probe were especially important . 
clinicopathologic studies of children who die of acute lower respiratory tract infections : mechanisms of death . clinicopathologic correlations for 71 cases of fatal pneumonia in children were determined . the mechanism of death for these patients was multifactorial . severe pneumonia alone accounted for 11 deaths ( 15.5 % ) . pneumonia associated with sepsis occurred in 42 children ( 59.2 % ) . heart failure ( 8.5 % ) , hypovolemia ( 4.2 % ) , and nosocomial infection ( 12.6 % ) were also seen in children with fatal acute lower respiratory tract infection . extensive consolidation , squamous metaplasia , and hyaline membranes were present in the lungs of these children . patients with severe disease must receive , in addition to antibiotics for acute episodes , individualized intensive respiratory and supportive care . since these types of care are not available in poor communities , vaccination against measles and vitamin a supplementation for malnourished children may ameliorate the conditions that appear to predispose these children to severe or fatal disease . 
activation of coagulation in acute cardioembolic stroke . the hematologic disorders in patients with acute cardioembolic stroke are not fully understood , and no reliable measures are available to identify patients at high risk for recurrent embolism . we analyzed coagulation and fibrinolytic functions in 22 patients with cardiogenic cerebral embolism less than or equal to 24 hours after onset and in 25 age-matched controls . the levels of antithrombin iii , protein c , and alpha 2-plasmin inhibitor were significantly lower in the patients than in the controls ( p less than 0.001 , 0.02 , and 0.05 , respectively ) . in contrast , the plasma concentrations of thrombin-antithrombin iii complex and crosslinked d-dimer were markedly higher in the patients than in the controls ( p less than 0.01 and 0.001 , respectively ) . at the time of admission , the plasma concentrations of thrombin-antithrombin iii complex and crosslinked d-dimer in the eight patients at high risk for recurrent embolization ( one with prodromal embolism , three with intracardiac thrombi , and four with recurrent embolization ) were 2.8 and 3.5 times , respectively , higher than those in the 14 patients without recurrence or thrombus formation . the lowest concentration of crosslinked d-dimer in the eight patients at high risk for recurrent embolization was 600 ng/ml on admission . our results suggest that patients with acute cardioembolic stroke have various degrees of consumption coagulopathy and that the plasma concentrations of thrombin-antithrombin iii complex and crosslinked d-dimer can be useful indicators of those who are prone to recurrent embolization during this stage . 
noninvasive assessment of cerebral collateral blood supply through the ophthalmic artery . we assessed the potential of 2-mhz pulsed-wave transorbital doppler ultrasonography to delineate the role of the ophthalmic artery as a source of collateral cerebral blood supply by comparing oculopneumoplethysmography , transorbital doppler ultrasonography , periorbital continuous-wave doppler ultrasonography , and transcranial doppler ultrasonography in 25 patients with unilateral internal carotid artery occlusion and five controls with 10 normal internal carotid arteries . systolic ophthalmic artery blood velocity was reduced ipsilateral to an internal carotid artery occlusion ( 38.2 + / - 10.2 cm/sec ) compared with the contralateral and control velocities ( 46.0 + / - 10.3 and 47.5 + / - 6.8 cm/sec , respectively ; p less than 0.05 ) . ophthalmic systolic pressure measured by oculopneumoplethysmography was 94.7 + / - 13.2 mm hg ipsilateral to an internal carotid artery occlusion compared with 108.4 + / - 15.3 mm hg on the contralateral side ( p less than 0.01 ) . transorbital and periorbital doppler ultrasonography detected reversed ophthalmic artery blood flow ipsilateral to an internal carotid artery occlusion in 44.0 % and 40.0 % of the patients , respectively . systolic middle cerebral artery blood velocity was 55.2 + / - 22.3 cm/sec ipsilateral to an internal carotid artery occlusion compared with 79.4 + / - 23.5 cm/sec on the contralateral side ( p less than 0.05 ) and 101.2 + / - 18.9 cm/sec in the controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . reversed ophthalmic artery blood flow was associated with a low middle cerebral artery blood velocity and lack of major intracerebral collaterals . transorbital doppler ultrasonography permits noninvasive evaluation of the ophthalmic artery . 
the role of neutrophils and platelets in a rabbit model of thromboembolic stroke . cerebral ischemia is accompanied by many of the cardinal features of acute inflammation such as neutrophil and platelet activation and accumulation . we sought to determine whether circulating neutrophils or platelets contribute to brain injury in a rabbit model of thromboembolic stroke that includes a fixed duration of superimposed systemic hypotension . we randomized 18 rabbits to receive either antineutrophil antiserum ( n = 6 ) , antiplatelet antiserum ( n = 5 ) , or nonimmune serum ( n = 7 ) . we assessed brain ischemia by measuring cerebral blood flow , intracranial pressure , and infarct size . following the intracarotid administration of an autologous clot , cerebral blood flow in all groups fell to less than 5 ml/100 g/min during induced hypotension . after restoration of baseline blood pressure , mean cerebral blood flow in neutropenic animals recovered to 20-30 ml/100 g/min while that in control and thrombocytopenic rabbits remained at less than 10 ml/100 g/min . intracranial pressure in control animals rose steadily to a final value of 241 % of baseline , while a much smaller increase ( 148 % of baseline ) was noted in the thrombocytopenic group ; no change from baseline was evident in the neutropenic group . infarct size was significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) reduced in the neutropenic group but not in the thrombocytopenic group . these results suggest that neutrophils may be important contributors to ischemia-induced brain injury whereas the role of platelets is more subtle . 
attenuated neuropathology by nilvadipine after middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats . we investigated the effects of nilvadipine , a calcium antagonist , on cerebral ischemia in rats . under halothane anesthesia , 30 rats had a 3-0 nylon suture introduced through the extracranial internal carotid artery to occlude the left middle cerebral artery . nilvadipine was dissolved in polyethylene glycol 400 . immediately following occlusion , group 1 rats ( n = 10 ) were treated subcutaneously with vehicle and group 2 and 3 rats were treated with 1.0 ( n = 10 ) and 3.2 ( n = 10 ) mg/kg nilvadipine , respectively . perfusion fixation was performed 24 hours later , and the histopathologic outcomes were quantified . in group 1 infarct volume was 28.2 + / - 11.4 % of the total cerebral volume ; in groups 2 and 3 infarct volumes were 25.5 + / - 11.6 % ( ns ) and 13.9 + / - 9.2 % ( p less than 0.05 different from group 1 ) , respectively . nilvadipine decreased ischemic neuronal injury in a dose-dependent manner and may be of use in the treatment of cerebral ischemia . 
hypertension , cigarette smoking , and the decline in stroke incidence in eastern finland . finland has high rates of both cardiovascular disease and cardiovascular disease risk factors . we studied random samples of the population 30-59 years of age for risk factors in two provinces of eastern finland in 1972 and 1977 . we then followed both cohorts until 1985 through linkage with national hospital discharge and death certificate registers . the prevalence of hypertension and smoking in both provinces declined between 1972 and 1977 , as did the stroke incidence in the 8-year period of follow-up of each cohort . we observed no differences in stroke incidence between the two provinces . the relative risk of stroke in the later period ( 1977-1985 ) was 0.71 and 0.58 for men and women , respectively , when compared with the earlier period ( 1972-1980 ) . overall , 28 % of all stroke events could be attributed to hypertension , 17 % to smoking , and 43 % to these two factors jointly . the decrease in the prevalence of hypertension and smoking accounted for about 29 % of the decline . 
recurrent transient ischemic attacks and stroke in association with an internal carotid artery web fibromuscular dysplasia is a nonatherosclerotic vascular disease that most commonly affects cervical carotid arteries at the c1-c2 level when cephalic arteries are involved . several histopathologic and angiographic subtypes of fibromuscular dysplasia exist ; most have a benign natural history . we describe the third reported case of a pathologically proven , symptomatic proximal internal carotid artery web and suggest that patients with this lesion are at a higher risk for stroke . 
hemodynamic effects of h2-receptor antagonists . histamine h2-receptor antagonists ( h2ras ) often are administered to intensive care unit patients in an attempt to reduce gastric acidity and to prevent stress-related mucosal damage . these agents have an extremely low overall incidence and severity of adverse reactions ; however , hemodynamically significant hypotension has been noted . clinical studies with rapidly administered intravenous cimetidine in critically ill patients have demonstrated a depression in blood pressure in up to 75 percent of patients . ranitidine , also studied in this setting , does not appear to induce similar hemodynamic changes . the newer h2ras , famotidine and nizatidine , have not been evaluated in critically ill patients . 
interpreting results of exercise studies after acute myocardial infarction altered by thrombolytic therapy , coronary angioplasty or bypass . numerous studies have assessed the ability of exercise modalities to predict patient outcome after acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) . implicit in the use of these prior data to assess the prognosis of patients currently undergoing exercise studies is the assumption that patients selected for exercise assessment are similar over time and that the data generated in the past are therefore applicable to the current patient populations . this study retrospectively assessed the clinical , exercise , and rest and exercise radionuclide angiographic data in 791 consecutive patients referred for exercise radionuclide angiography within 1 month after ami during a 5-year period to determine if the clinical and exercise characteristics of patients referred for exercise evaluation after infarction have changed significantly over time . most parameters examined demonstrated significant increasing trends , including thrombolytic therapy at the time of ami , revascularization procedure between ami and exercise assessment , age , beta-blocker usage , q-wave ami , inferior infarction , exercise double product , exercise capacity , significant st-segment depression with exercise , peak ejection fraction , and change in ejection fraction with exercise . these data indicate that the characteristics of patients selected to undergo exercise after ami in a large referral center have changed significantly over time . if these data are applicable to other referral centers and to other exercise testing modalities , previously published results regarding exercise assessment after ami will need to be reconfirmed in patients currently selected for testing , since these results may no longer be applicable in this current era of aggressive medical and interventional management . 
in-hospital symptoms of psychological stress as predictors of long-term outcome after acute myocardial infarction in men . the impact of high levels of psychological stress symptoms in the hospital after an acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) was examined over 5 years among 461 men who took part in a trial of psychological stress monitoring and intervention . psychological stress was assessed using the 20-item general health questionnaire ( ghq ) 1 to 2 days before hospital discharge . once discharged , patients in the treatment group responded to the ghq by telephone on a monthly basis and , when they reported high levels of stress symptoms ( ghq greater than or equal to 5 ) , received visits from nurses to help them deal with their life problems . control patients received routine medical care after discharge . post-hoc subgroup analyses based on life-table methods showed that , for patients receiving routine care after discharge , high stress ( ghq greater than or equal to 5 ) was associated with a close to threefold increase in risk of cardiac mortality over 5 years ( p = 0.0003 ) and an approximately 1.5-fold increase in risk of reinfarction over the same period ( p = 0.09 ) . in contrast , highly stressed patients who took part in the 1-year program of stress monitoring and intervention did not experience any significant long-term increase in risk . although program impact was significant in terms of reduction of both cardiac mortality ( p = 0.006 ) and ami recurrences ( p = 0.004 ) among highly stressed patients , there was little evidence of impact among patients with low levels of stress in the hospital . 
effect of nifedipine on total ischemic activity and circadian distribution of myocardial ischemic episodes in angina pectoris . a randomized , double-blind , crossover study was conducted in 10 patients to assess the effect of nifedipine versus placebo on total ischemic activity and circadian distribution of ischemic episodes . after baseline exercise treadmill testing and 48-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic st-segment monitoring , patients received either nifedipine ( mean dose , 80 mg/day ) or placebo administered 4 times per day , with the initial dose taken immediately upon arising in the morning . patients were maintained on a stable dose of each study drug for 7 days , after which they underwent repeat exercise treadmill testing and 48-hour ambulatory electrocardiography . during exercise treadmill testing , greater exercise duration was achieved by patients receiving nifedipine than by those receiving placebo ( 421 + / - 121 vs 353 + / - 155 seconds , respectively ; p less than 0.05 ) . time to greater than or equal to 1 mm st depression was significantly greater with nifedipine ( 282 + / - 146 seconds ) than at baseline ( 130 + / - 72 seconds , p less than 0.003 ) and with placebo ( 150 + / - 98 seconds , p less than 0.0005 ) . during ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring , nifedipine reduced both the total number of ischemic episodes ( 18 vs 54 at baseline and 63 with placebo ; p less than 0.02 for both ) and the total duration of ischemia ( 260 vs 874 at baseline and 927 minutes with placebo ; p less than 0.02 for both ) . the surge of ischemia between 06:00 and 12:00 noted at baseline and during placebo therapy was nearly abolished during nifedipine treatment . nifedipine at this dosage , administered in this manner , is effective in reducing total ischemic activity and may prevent morning surges of ischemic episodes . 
early assessment of coronary artery bypass graft patency by high-dose dipyridamole echocardiography . to assess the role of high-dose ( up to 0.84 mg/kg during 10 minutes ) dipyridamole echocardiographic testing in the evaluation of coronary artery bypass graft patency early after surgery , 18 consecutive patients with angina underwent dipyridamole echocardiography and coronary angiography before and 7 to 10 days after bypass surgery . coronary angiography showed 2 - or 3-vessel disease in 7 and 11 patients , respectively . a total of 53 bypass grafts were performed . before bypass surgery 14 patients had a positive and 4 a negative test result . no complication occurred during the test performed early after surgery . of the 14 patients with positive dipyridamole echocardiographic results before surgery , 10 had negative and 4 had positive results after surgery . all 4 patients had negative results before and after surgery . in the 4 patients with positive results after dipyridamole echocardiographic testing before and after bypass surgery , dipyridamole time increased from 5.8 + / - 5 to 9.3 + / - 0.9 minutes ( p = 0.3 ) after the procedure and wall motion score index at peak dipyridamole changed from 1.55 + / - 0.2 to 1.28 + / - 0.3 ( p = 0.05 ) . forty-nine of 53 grafts were patent as seen on angiography . dipyridamole echocardiographic results were positive in 4 of 5 patients who had at least 1 obstructed graft or native vessel obstructed distal to bypass graft insertion . the remaining patient had diagnostic electrocardiographic changes during dipyridamole infusion without wall motion abnormalities . dipyridamole echocardiographic results were negative in all 13 patients who had complete revascularization . in the 4 patients with positive test results , the procedure correctly identified the localization of the diseased bypass graft . 
ablation of the atrioventricular junction with radiofrequency energy using a new electrode catheter . percutaneous catheter ablation using radiofrequency energy can be used to interrupt atrioventricular ( av ) conduction in patients with supraventricular tachycardia refractory to drugs . results of radiofrequency ablation of the av junction using a custom-designed catheter with a large , 3-mm-long distal electrode , 2-mm interelectrode spacing , and a shaft with increased torsional rigidity were compared with those using a standard quadripolar electrode catheter ( bard ep ) . an electrocoagulator ( microvasive bicap 4005 ) supplied unmodulated radiofrequency current at 550 khz , which was applied between the distal electrode of the ablation catheter and a large skin electrode . with use of the modified catheter , 12 of 13 patients ( 92 % ) had persistent complete av block induced with 7 + / - 5 applications of 18 + / - 6 w of radiofrequency power . in contrast , complete av block was produced in only 9 of 18 ( 50 % ) historical control patients treated with the standard catheter , despite a similar number of applications ( 7 + / - 5 ) and power output ( 16 + / - 4 w ) . a rise in impedance , due to desiccation of tissue and coagulum formation , occurred earlier ( 28 + / - 18 vs 52 + / - 24 seconds , p less than 0.001 ) and more frequently ( 54 vs 40 % of applications , p = 0.047 ) in patients treated with the standard catheter than in patients treated with the modified catheter . the use of a catheter designed to increase the surface area of electrode-tissue contact allows more radiofrequency energy to be delivered before a rise in impedance occurs and appears to increase the effectiveness of radiofrequency ablation of the av junction . 
relative importance of activation sequence compared to atrioventricular synchrony in left ventricular function . this study evaluated the relative hemodynamic importance of a normal left ventricular ( lv ) activation sequence compared to atrioventricular ( av ) synchrony with respect to systolic and diastolic function . twelve patients with intact av conduction and av sequential pacemakers underwent radionuclide studies at rest and doppler echocardiographic studies at rest and during submaximal exercise , comparing atrial demand pacing ( aai ) to sequential av sensing pacing ( ddd ) and ventricular demand pacing ( vvi ) . studies at rest were performed at a constant heart rate between pacing modes , and the exercise study was performed at a constant heart rate and work load . cardiac output was higher during aai than during both ddd and vvi ( 6.2 + / - 1 vs 5.6 + / - 1 and 5.3 + / - 1 liters/min , p less than 0.05 ) . lv ejection fraction was likewise higher during aai ( 55 + / - 12 vs 49 + / - 11 vs 51 + / - 13 , p less than 0.05 ) . vvi with or without av synchrony was associated with a paradoxical septal motion pattern , resulting in a 25 % impairment of regional septal ejection fraction . in addition , lv contraction duration was more homogenous during aai . peak filling rate during aai and vvi was higher than during ddd ( 2.86 + / - 1 and 2.95 + / - 1 vs 2.25 + / - 1 end-diastolic volume/s ; p less than 0.05 ) . during vvi , the time to peak filling was significantly shorter than during both aai and ddd ( 165 + / - 34 vs 239 + / - 99 and 224 + / - 99 ms ; p less than 0.05 ) . 
effects of doxazosin on blood pressure , renin-angiotensin-aldosterone and urinary kallikrein . doxazosin , a new quinazoline-derivative postsynaptic alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist , was studied in this randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled 12-week study . its effects on blood pressure ( bp ) , heart rate , metabolic functions and renal hormones were analyzed after administration of a single oral morning dose in a 3-phase fashion when administered to 17 patients ( 11 women , 6 men , 21 to 59 years ) with mild to moderate uncomplicated essential hypertension . after titrating the antihypertensive effective dose biweekly from 1 to 8 mg/day and a mean end titration-point dose of 4.14 + / - 0.1 mg ( mean + / - standard error of the mean ) at week 8 of treatment , it was adjusted to maintain diastolic bp at levels less than or equal to 90 mm hg for up to 12 weeks of treatment when , at a final mean dose of 4.35 + / - 0.2 mg/day , bp decreased in all patients by a mean 31 + / - 3/17 + / - 2 ( supine ) and 39 + / - 3/15 + / - 3 ( standing ) mm hg ( p less than 0.005 ) with no increase in heart rate and no " first-dose phenomenon . " neither the renin-aldosterone system nor electrolyte excretion was significantly affected . renal function and metabolic parameters also remained unchanged . urinary kallikrein excretion was augmented 2.47-fold ( p less than 0.002 ) . there was good tolerance ; 1 patient discontinued the study because of dry nose . these results suggest that long-term monotherapy with doxazosin is an effective and safe antihypertensive agent for mild to moderate essential hypertension that stimulates urinary kallikrein excretion . 
effect of mitral regurgitation and volume loading on pressure half-time before and after balloon valvotomy in mitral stenosis . doppler pressure half-time ( pht ) is frequently used to assess mitral valve area ( mva ) , but the reliability of pht has recently been challenged , specifically in the setting of balloon mitral valvotomy when hemodynamics have been abruptly altered . the effect of volume loading both before and after balloon mitral valvotomy on computation of mva by gorlin and by pht in 18 patients with high-fidelity micromanometer measurements of left atrial and left ventricular pressure was therefore examined . echocardiographic mva increased from 0.91 + / - 0.15 to 1.97 + / - 0.42 cm2 after valvotomy . volume loading produced significant increases in left atrial pressure ( 16 to 23 before and 12 to 20 mm hg after valvotomy ) , in cardiac output ( 3.7 to 4.1 before and 3.9 to 4.6 liters/min after valvotomy ) , and in mitral valve gradient ( 11 to 14 before and 5 to 7 mm hg after valvotomy ) . these hemodynamic changes were associated with modest but significant decreases in pht and increases in mva estimated by 220/pht ( 0.66 to 0.81 before and 1.64 to 1.96 cm2 after valvotomy ) , whereas the mva by gorlin was not affected in a consistent fashion by volume loading ( 0.85 to 0.89 before and 1.66 to 1.69 cm2 after valvotomy ) . the correlation between gorlin mva and 220/pht was only fair ( r = 0.73 , p less than 0.001 ) and was significantly poorer among patients with greater than 1 + mitral regurgitation ( r = 0.72 ) than among those with less or no regurgitation ( r = 0.79 ) ( p = 0.001 by analysis of covariance for mitral regurgitation effect ) . 
sudden death during empiric amiodarone therapy in symptomatic hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . amiodarone is reported to improve symptoms and to prevent sudden death in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ( hc ) . amiodarone treatment ( loading dose 30 g given over 6 weeks ; maintenance dose 400 mg/day ) was prospectively evaluated in 50 patients with hc in whom the drug was initiated because of symptoms refractory to conventional drug therapy ( calcium antagonists and beta blockers ) . twenty-one ( 42 % ) patients had ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) during holter monitoring . amiodarone significantly and often markedly improved the patients ' new york heart association functional class status ( from 3.3 to 2.7 at 2 months , p less than 0.001 ) and treadmill exercise duration ( p less than 0.001 ) . eight patients , however , died ( 7 suddenly ) during a mean follow-up period of 2.2 + / - 1.8 years . of the 7 sudden deaths , 6 occurred within 5 months of initiation of treatment . the 6-month and 1 - and 2-year survival rates were 87 , 85 and 80 % , respectively . the survival rate of patients with vt was significantly worse than that of patients without vt ( 61 vs 97 % at 2 years ; p less than 0.01 ) . sudden death occurred despite abolition of vt on holter monitoring . amiodarone increased left ventricular peak filling rate by radionuclide angiography in 20 of 33 patients ( 61 % ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . decrease in peak left ventricular filling rate within 10 days of amiodarone therapy ( 8 of 33 patients ) was associated with subsequent sudden death ( p less than 0.04 ) . 
value of electrophysiologic studies in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy treated with amiodarone . the relation of electrophysiologic effects of amiodarone to long-term outcome was studied in 35 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ( hc ) . indications for electrophysiologic studies were : cardiac arrest ( n = 3 ) , syncope/presyncope ( n = 27 ) and asymptomatic ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) ( n = 5 ) . twenty-eight patients ( 80 % ) had vt , 3 ( 9 % ) atrial tachycardia and 3 ( 9 % ) paroxysmal atrial fibrillation during 24-hour holter monitoring . the studies were repeated after a total amiodarone dose of 58 + / - 122 g and during a maintenance median daily dose of 400 mg . amiodarone abolished paroxysmal atrial arrhythmias in all 6 patients . however , it caused marked atrioventricular nodal conduction abnormality in 3 patients and heart block or marked hv interval prolongation ( to greater than or equal to 100 ms ) in 4 patients . sustained vt was induced in 26 patients ( 74 % ) at baseline study and in 23 patients ( 66 % ) taking amiodarone therapy . with amiodarone , vt was no longer inducible or was more difficult to induce in 11 patients ( 31 % ) , and the drug abolished vt during holter monitoring in all patients . however , vt was easier to induce with amiodarone or was induced only with amiodarone in 18 ( 51 % ) patients . amiodarone significantly slowed the rate of induced vt ( from 248 + / - 29 to 214 + / - 37 beats/min , p less than 0.001 ) . this was associated with a change in its morphology from polymorphic to monomorphic vt in 7 patients . during a follow up of 18 + / - 14 months ( range 2 to 56 ) , amiodarone was discontinued because of adverse effects in 8 patients ( 23 % ) . 
rarity of preclinical alcoholic cardiomyopathy in chronic alcoholics less than 40 years of age . preclinical alcoholic cardiomyopathy , myocardial damage in the absence of overt congestive heart failure in chronic alcoholics , is well characterized at necropsy , but attempts to identify such a clinical entity before death have produced conflicting results . studying subjects only at rest , the inclusion of older alcoholics and limitations of noninvasive techniques may explain some of the disagreement . to determine if preclinical alcoholic cardiomyopathy could be identified independent of the aforementioned limitations , 25 asymptomatic chronic alcoholics aged less than 40 years ( mean 34 ) , each of whom had consumed a minimum of 1 pint of whiskey or one 6-pack of beer greater than or equal to 5 days per week for greater than or equal to 5 years , underwent radionuclide ventriculography for measurements of systolic and diastolic function at rest , peak supine exercise and during recovery , and echocardiography for assessment of chamber size , wall thickness and left ventricular mass . red blood cell levels of selenium and thiamine were measured to determine whether abnormalities were present in these 2 potential mediators of alcoholic cardiomyopathy . for comparison , an age-matched group of healthy control subjects was also studied . for alcoholics and control subjects at rest , mean ejection fraction ( 67 + / - 7 % vs 71 + / - 6 % ) and diastolic peak filling rate ( 3.4 + / - 0.6 vs 3.3 + / - 0.6 end-diastolic volumes per second [ edv/s ] ) were similar . 
prognostic value of thallium-201 perfusion defects in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy . to assess the prognostic significance of thallium-201 perfusion defects in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy ( idc ) , 43 patients underwent thallium scintigraphy in addition to clinical , echocardiographic , angiographic and hemodynamic evaluation . eleven patients had no significant thallium perfusion abnormality , 19 had multiple small defects and 13 had a large defect . during 3.2 + / - 2.2 years , 14 patients had disease-related mortality . the patients who died had a higher incidence of ventricular tachycardia ( 71 vs 31 % ; p less than 0.02 ) , increased cardiothoracic ratio ( 60 + / - 6 vs 54 + / - 6 ; p = 0.005 ) , decreased fractional shortening ( 11 + / - 6 vs 15 + / - 5 ; p less than 0.05 ) , increased pulmonary wedge pressure ( 15 + / - 7 vs 10 + / - 6 mm hg ; p = 0.05 ) , increased left ventricular end-diastolic pressure ( 21 + / - 8 vs 14 + / - 6 mm hg ; p = 0.02 ) and abnormal thallium perfusion defects ( 13 of 14 vs 16 of 26 ; p less than 0.05 ) compared with survivors . age , gender , left ventricular end-systolic and end-diastolic dimensions , cardiac index and ejection fraction were not statistically different in the survivors versus the patients who died . kaplan-meier survival estimates at 1 , 3 and 5 years were 100 % in patients without significant perfusion abnormality ; 89 , 77 and 64 % , respectively , in patients with multiple small defects ; and 84 , 76 and 30 % , respectively , in patients with a large defect ( p less than 0.025 by log rank test ) . 
usefulness of color-flow doppler in diagnosing and in differentiating supracristal ventricular septal defect from right ventricular outflow tract obstruction . color-flow doppler is used for special localization of cardiac flows . the transeptal jet in supracristal ventricular septal defect ( vsd ) is directed toward the pulmonary valve and is often difficult to distinguish from the right ventricular ( rv ) outflow tract flow . pulsed - and continuous-wave doppler can misread the vsd jet as a stenotic lesion in the rv outflow tract . this study describes the color-flow doppler characteristics of supracristal vsd and determines if color-flow doppler can differentiate supracristal vsd jets from rv outflow tract flow . the study group comprised 28 patients ranging in age from 3 days to 23 years ( mean 6.4 ) , with catheter-diagnosed supracristal vsd in 14 , isolated pulmonary valve stenosis in 10 and rv infundibular obstruction in 4 . the echocardiographic doppler and color-flow doppler data of all patients were reviewed without knowledge of catheterization diagnosis . in all patients with supracristal vsd , color-flow doppler revealed an abnormal transeptal jet directed toward the pulmonary valve that occurred 5 to 10 ms before rv outflow tract flow was identified . vsd and rv outflow tract jet could be differentiated by pulsed - and continuous-wave doppler alone in 10 of 14 patients ( 71 % ) . in 4 patients , differentiation was possible only with color-flow doppler and electrocardiographic gating . associated aortic regurgitation , or a fistula , or both , were detected in 6 patients . pulsed - and continuous-wave doppler with or without color-flow doppler correctly identified the level of obstruction in all patients with rv outflow tract lesions ( 14 of 14 ) . supracristal vsd jet occurs in early systole and is directed toward the pulmonary valve . 
an unusual venous anomaly of the placenta . the authors present an unusual vascular anomaly of the placenta . the placenta was very large , weighing 1,490 g. on the fetal surface , numerous dilated and tortuous vessels were observed on and under the chorionic membrane , of which three branches arose from a vein that was connected to the umbilical vein . one of them had a 5 x 2.5 cm aneurysmal dilatation , where three secondary branches arose . these venous channels were dilated and tortuous . the longest secondary branch was 133 cm in length and 1.2 cm in mean diameter and led into the placenta . multiple , severely coiled or straight small branches arising from these vessels were also observed as vascular tangles . some of these smaller vessels also led into the placenta . all abnormal vessels were veins . the umbilical cord was also normal except for a membranous insertion , and the placenta was unremarkable except for its large size . 
diagnostic value of dna analysis in effusions by flow cytometry and image analysis . a prospective study on 102 patients as compared with cytologic examination one hundred twenty-six effusion samples from 102 patients were examined by cytology and flow cytometry ( fcm ) . overall , there was an 84 % correlation between cytologic and fcm results . of the 36 malignant cases determined by cytologic examination , fcm revealed an aneuploid peak in 20 ( 56 % ) . image analysis ( ia ) performed on the malignant cytologic cases with a diploid flow pattern detected two additional aneuploid peaks . in addition , fcm indicated three aneuploid cases in which cytologic characteristics were initially interpreted as benign ( false negative ) . aneuploidy was therefore detected in 64 % of the malignant effusion specimens by fcm and ia . twenty-three of the total of 24 aneuploid cases detected by fcm were associated with malignancy ( predictive value = 96 % ) . the one nonmalignant case was that of hemorrhagic pancreatitis with infected pseudocyst . fcm is an excellent tool when moderate to large numbers of tumor cells are present , whereas use of ia is advantageous for specimens containing smaller numbers of malignant cells because these can be directly analyzed . when an aneuploid peak is present , a diagnosis of malignancy must be suspected , and , if the initial cytologic screen is negative , a critical review of the cytology slides is justified . in those cases with an equivocal atypical cytology report and an abnormal cytometric histogram , additional investigation is warranted . in some malignancies the tumor cells will be diploid ( in this study 36 % ) and neither fcm nor ia will add to tumor detection , leaving cytologic examination as the definitive technique . 
genetic determination of cytomegalovirus-induced and age-related cardiopathy in inbred mice . characterization of infiltrating cells . carditis developed 7 days after the administration of murine cytomegalovirus to neonatal , young adult or aged mice of varying sensitivity to lethal infection with this virus . the inflammation persisted for up to 80 days , but infected myocardial cells were rare and were not seen after day 10 . the inflammatory cells comprised macrophages ( up to 30 % ) and t cells ( up to 80 % ) , with a high ratio of lyt2 + to l3t4 + cells throughout . although the h-2 genotype affects murine cytomegalovirus replication at the level of individual cells , and hence resistance to lethal infection , it did not determine resistance to cardiopathy per se . however balb/c , balb.b , and balb.k mice developed persistent myocarditis regardless of age at infection , and age-related cardiopathy was frequent and severe in infected and uninfected mice . b10 and b10.br mice also developed myocarditis after neonatal infection , but inflammation resolved rapidly after adult infection and age-related cardiopathy was correspondingly mild . c3h mice exhibited minimal carditis after neonatal or adult infection . however neonatal infection appears to accelerate age-related cardiopathy , which is severe in retired breeders of this strain . 
prospective study of a prosthetic h-graft portacaval shunt . this study was undertaken to prospectively evaluate the 8-mm gore-tex interposition h-graft portacaval shunt . thirty-six high-risk patients at the university of south florida-affiliated hospitals received small-diameter shunts because of bleeding esophagogastric varices over a recent 2-year period . portal vein and portal vein-inferior vena cava gradients were significantly reduced after shunting . these pressure changes were manifested clinically by the absence of variceal rebleeding and improvement of ascites ; in addition , the incidence of encephalopathy was low . the 8-mm graft maintained hepatopedal flow in 67 % of the patients , but reversal of flow did not result in complications commonly associated with poor portal perfusion . graft thrombosis occurred in four ( 11 % ) patients . all grafts were successfully revised , three by operative revision and one by an interventional radiologist . operative mortality was low ( 11 % ) , and morbidity was unusual . the small-diameter h-graft portacaval shunt is a safe and effective method of treatment for bleeding esophagogastric varices . 
vascular complications after orthotopic liver transplantation . over a 57-month period , we performed 430 orthotopic liver transplants in 372 patients . a total of 38 vascular complications were identified including hepatic artery thrombosis ( n = 24 ) , portal vein thrombosis ( n = 6 ) , combined hepatic artery thrombosis/portal vein thrombosis ( n = 3 ) , and hepatic artery rupture ( n = 5 ) . a number of potential risk factors for the development of vascular thrombosis were evaluated with only children , weight less than 10 kg , and cold ischemia time found to be significant . the clinical presentation included fulminant hepatic failure , allograft dysfunction , biliary sepsis , and screening ultrasound . duplex ultrasonography was diagnostic in nearly all cases . therapeutic modalities included revascularization , revascularization followed by retransplantation , retransplantation alone , and observation . five cases of hepatic artery rupture occurred in four patients . infectious arteritis was present in four patients . the 6-month actuarial survival in patients with vascular complications was 70 % . early diagnosis is critical for graft salvage , with surgical intervention the mainstay of therapy . 
diagnosing pulmonary embolism : new facts and strategies purpose : to provide a clinical approach to the diagnosis of pulmonary embolism . data identification : an english-language literature search using medline ( 1982 to 1990 ) and bibliographic reviews of textbooks and review articles . study selection : in addition to several reviews , studies that evaluated the diagnostic technology of pulmonary embolism were selected . preference was given to studies with a prospective design , particularly those done within the past decade . data extraction : studies were assessed independently by three unblinded observers . data were chosen to describe the efficacy of diagnostic technology on the basis of disease prevalence , sensitivity and specificity , and predictive value . results of data analysis : a normal lung scan or pulmonary angiogram rules out the diagnosis of clinically important pulmonary embolism with at least 95 % certainty . lung scan interpretations indicating high or low probability have approximately a 15 % error in diagnosing or ruling out pulmonary embolism . the accuracy of either scan result improves when the clinical suspicion of pulmonary embolism matches the lung scan result . serial impedance plethysmography of the lower extremities may exclude thromboembolism with 95 % certainty in patients without high-probability lung scan results or cardiopulmonary disease . conclusions : the combination of clinical suspicion and the results of the lung scan and impedance plethysmography appear to offer acceptable diagnostic accuracy in evaluating many patients suspected of having pulmonary embolism . the usefulness of this approach for patients with cardiopulmonary disease is still unknown . 
late deaths after treatment for childhood cancer . an investigation of 749 deaths occurring among 4082 patients surviving at least five years after the diagnosis of childhood cancer in britain before 1971 has been undertaken . of the 738 with sufficient information the numbers of deaths attributable to the following causes were : recurrent tumour , 550 ( 74 % ) , a second primary tumour , 61 ( 8 % ) , a medical condition related to treatment of the tumour , 49 ( 7 % ) , an traumatic death unrelated to the tumour or its treatment , 34 ( 5 % ) , finally , any other cause unrelated to the tumour or its treatment , 44 ( 6 % ) . less than 10 % of five year survivors of non-hodgkin lymphomas , neuroblastoma , retinoblastoma , wilms ' tumour , or a soft tissue sarcoma died of recurrent tumour during the next 15 years , while more than 25 % of five year survivors of hodgkin 's disease , ependymoma , medulloblastoma , and ewing 's tumour died of recurrent tumour during the corresponding period . almost 50 % of five year survivors of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia died of recurrent disease during the corresponding 15 years , a large proportion of deaths being due to central nervous system relapse in an era before central nervous system prophylaxis was routinely given . comparison of the mortality observed with that expected from mortality rates in the general population indicated three times the expected number of deaths from non-neoplastic causes . five times the expected number of deaths from cardiovascular causes were observed , these were predominantly myocardial infarction and cerebrovascular accidents . there was no evidence of an excess in the number of suicides observed , but there were three times the expected number of deaths from accidents observed after central nervous system tumours . 
regurgitation of fat and marrow emboli into coronary veins during resuscitation . three groups of patients were examined at autopsy for the presence of fat and marrow emboli in the lungs , heart , and other organs . group 1 was composed of patients with massive pulmonary thromboembolism and attempted cardiopulmonary resuscitation ; group 2 , patients with pulmonary thromboembolism and without attempted cardiopulmonary resuscitation ; and group 3 , patients without pulmonary thromboembolism and with attempted cardiopulmonary resuscitation . the results confirm that pulmonary fat and marrow emboli are frequent in those patients who are resuscitated . a novel observation is the finding of multiple coexistent cardiac venous emboli in those resuscitated patients who have pulmonary artery obstruction with pulmonary thromboemboli . these findings suggest that these emboli regurgitate from the right side of the heart to the coronary sinus and cardiac veins in cases of pulmonary artery hypertension . 
aspergillus terreus endophthalmitis in a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia . a 65-year-old woman with a 7-year history of chronic lymphocytic leukemia presented with acute visual loss , pain , and redness in her right eye . results of stains and cultures of anterior chamber fluid were negative . neurologic problems , bronchopulmonary pneumonia , recurrent skin lesions , and a low-grade fever developed . progressive respiratory distress ensued , and the patient died 1 month after presentation . cultures from antemortem sputum and skin samples were positive for aspergillus terreus . postmortem histologic results showed extensive a terreus invasion of the posterior vitreous , retina , choroid , and anterior optic nerve . this organism was also found in histologic sections from the right adrenal gland , left kidney , thyroid , urinary bladder , right lung , skin , esophagus , sputum , vessels of the myocardium , and brain . to our knowledge , a terreus endophthalmitis has not been reported previously . 
limitation of retinal injury by vitreoperfusion initiated after onset of ischemia . we tested whether vitreoperfusion , a new method of perfusing the vitreous cavity with solutions containing nutrients , can limit retinal injury if initiated after the onset of ischemia . severe bilateral ocular ischemia was induced in cats with healed lensectomy-vitrectomy wounds ; 30 , 60 , 90 , or 120 minutes later , one eye from each of 18 cats underwent vitreoperfusion while the ischemia continued for 120 minutes . the other eye simultaneously underwent either continued untreated ischemia or reinstated circulation . the histopathologic abnormalities evident after 8 days depended on the duration of ischemia . reinstated circulation yielded less retinal damage than continued ischemia . nine additional cats underwent bilateral ischemia for at least 210 minutes . vitreoperfusion was initiated in one eye after 30 minutes . in each cat , the vitreoperfused eye fared significantly better as observed histopathologically and electroretinographically . we believe that no other treatment has similarly limited retinal injury in vivo when initiated so long after total ocular ischemia has developed . 
a systemic non-lytic state and local thrombolytic failure of anistreplase ( anisoylated plasminogen streptokinase activator complex , apsac ) in acute myocardial infarction . the relation between coronary thrombolysis and coagulation variables after administration of anistreplase ( anisoylated plasminogen streptokinase activator complex , apsac ) was studied in patients with an acute myocardial infarction . fifty eight consecutive patients with acute myocardial infarction were given 30 u of anistreplase intravenously within 4 hours of the onset of symptoms . a fall in the plasma concentration fibrinogen to less than 1.0 g/l 90 minutes after administration of anistreplase was considered to reflect a systemic lytic state . coronary angiography was performed 48 hours after thrombolytic treatment . the overall patency rate was 74 % ( 43/58 ) . patency rates were significantly different in patients with a systemic lytic ( 83 % ( 43/52 ) ) and a systemic non-lytic state ( 0 % ( 0/6 ) ) . the absence of a systemic lytic state after anistreplase administration seemed to be highly predictive of the failure of coronary thrombolysis . coagulation studies showed evidence of inhibition of anistreplase induced fibrinolytic activity which may explain the failure of thrombolytic treatment in patients with evidence of a systemic non-lytic state . 
excess purine degradation caused by an imbalance in the supply of adenosine triphosphate in patients with congestive heart failure . to evaluate purine degradation in patients with congestive heart failure concentrations of serum hypoxanthine , lactate , and noradrenaline were measured before and after submaximal treadmill exercise in 12 patients with chronic congestive heart failure and nine healthy volunteers . in four patients the concentration of hypoxanthine was significantly higher than in the controls or in the remaining eight patients with congestive heart failure . venous lactate and noradrenaline in the four patients with high concentrations of hypoxanthine were also significantly higher than those in the eight patients with normal concentrations of hypoxanthine . patients who responded normally were also more likely to have been treated with vasodilators and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors . exercise induced arrhythmias were more common in the patients with high concentrations of hypoxanthine . these results suggest that the excess purine degradation in patients with congestive heart failure might be the result of a " relative " disturbance in the supply of adenosine triphosphate caused by the shift of cellular metabolism from aerobic glycolysis to anaerobic glycolysis during submaximal exercise and that hypoxanthine ( a substrate for xanthine oxidase and a source of free radicals ) was increased after submaximal exercise in some patients with congestive heart failure . 
dipyridamole magnetic resonance imaging : a comparison with thallium-201 emission tomography . limitation of space and motion artefact make magnetic resonance imaging during dynamic exercise difficult . pharmacological stress with dipyridamole can be used as an alternative to exercise for thallium scanning . forty patients with a history of angina and an abnormal exercise electrocardiogram were studied by dipyridamole thallium myocardial perfusion tomography and dipyridamole magnetic resonance wall motion imaging with a cine gradient refocused sequence . images for both scans were obtained in the oblique horizontal and vertical long axis and short axis planes before and after pharmacological stress with dipyridamole . the myocardium was divided into nine segments for direct comparison of perfusion with wall motion . segments were assessed visually into grades -- normal , hypokinesis or reduced perfusion , and akinesis or very reduced perfusion . after dipyridamole there were reversible wall motion abnormalities in 24 ( 62 % ) of 39 patients with coronary artery disease and 24 ( 67 % ) of 36 patients with reversible thallium defects . the site of wall motion deterioration was always the site of a reversible thallium defect . thallium defects affecting more than two segments were always associated with wall motion deterioration but most single segment thallium defects were undetected by magnetic resonance imaging . there was a significant correlation between detection of wall motion abnormality , the angiographic severity of coronary artery disease , and the induction of chest pain by dipyridamole . there were no significant differences in ventricular volume or ejection fraction changes after dipyridamole between the groups with and without detectable reversible wall motion changes but the normalised magnetic resonance signal intensity of the abnormally moving segments was significantly less than the signal intensity of the normal segments . 
a controlled trial of community based coronary rehabilitation . two hundred patients who had suffered an acute myocardial infarction 4-6 weeks before entered a randomised controlled trial of exercise treatment at a community sports centre supervised by a general practitioner . eighty one per cent of the treatment group continued to exercise until they returned to work and 73 % completed three months ' exercise . there were no serious complications of the exercise course . the prevalence of angina pectoris fell by 10 % in the treatment group but rose by 60 % in the control group . the perceived energy level rose by significantly more in the treatment group than in the controls . the rise in predicted maximum oxygen uptake was significantly greater in the treatment group than in the control group as was the reduction in the double product ( a reflection of myocardial workload ) at peak exercise . coronary rehabilitation in the community can be both safe and effective . 
increase in native valve endocarditis caused by coagulase negative staphylococci : an anglo-french clinical and microbiological study . native valve endocarditis caused by coagulase negative staphylococci has become more common . a study of 35 cases showed that the infections were usually acquired in the community and occurred in men ( mean age 51 years ) . a pre-existing cardiac abnormality ( mitral leaflet prolapse in a third of patients ) was detected in 26 ( 74 % ) . the source of the organisms in the community acquired infections was assumed to be the skin , though lesions were seldom demonstrated ; most hospital acquired infections resulted from intravenous devices . community acquired organisms were usually sensitive to penicillin , whereas those acquired in hospital were often multiresistant . most infections were caused by staphylococcus epidermidis . the frequency of acute presentation ( 26 % ) and of major neurological abnormality ( 23 % ) , together with the need for valve replacement ( often emergency ) ( 51 % ) and the mortality ( 36 % ) suggest that coagulase negative staphylococci can be virulent aggressive pathogens , mimicking staphylococcus aureus . 
patients ' observations of bioprosthetic valve failure : " my heart is honking , doctor " . audible cardiac murmurs are uncommon and may indicate severe native valve dysfunction . in six patients with bioprosthetic mitral valves audible honking systolic murmurs suddenly developed . doppler echocardiography showed characteristic striated regurgitant signals . at operation each prosthesis had torn cusps . new audible murmurs and striated doppler signals originating from mitral bioprosthetic valves are indicators of cusp tears . recognition of this is important because early detection of prosthetic valve dysfunction may improve subsequent surgical outcome . 
a new method of haemodynamic assessment of mitral stenosis in atrial fibrillation : construction of a nomogram . accurate haemodynamic assessment of mitral stenosis by hydraulic formulas requires measurement of the mean valve gradient and the cardiac output . the calculation is laborious , particularly in the presence of atrial fibrillation when averaged values obtained from multiple beat-to-beat determinations must be used . the relations between valve area , end diastolic gradient , and heart rate in 20 patients with mitral stenosis and atrial fibrillation were examined . in each patient the end diastolic pressure gradient for each cardiac cycle was related linearly to the rr interval of that cycle , and this relation was unchanged on exercise . the slope ( s ) and intercept ( i ) of this relation correlated with the degree of mitral stenosis as measured by the gorlin valve area . the regression equations describing these relations were then used to construct a nomogram relating end diastolic pressure gradient to mitral valve area at different heart rates . when the nomogram was applied to catheterisation data from a further 30 patients the results correlated well with direct calculation of valve area by the gorlin formula . the nomogram is simple to use , does not require measurement of cardiac output , and is independent of heart rate so that it is unnecessary for the patient to exercise during catheterisation . 
rapid histological changes in endomyocardial biopsy specimens after myocarditis . the course and response to treatment in acute lymphocytic myocarditis are conventionally monitored by endomyocardial biopsy performed every 3-12 weeks . a patient with a short history ( five days ) of acute myopericarditis of unknown aetiology presented in cardiogenic shock with evidence of severe systolic dysfunction on the echocardiogram . the initial biopsy specimen showed histologically unequivocal myocarditis . repeat endomyocardial biopsy after four days of treatment with steroids and azathioprine showed substantial histological improvement , a reduction in cellular infiltrate and myocardial necrosis , and interstitial fibrosis . serial biopsies at 2 weeks and then 1 , 2 , 4 , 5 , 8 , and 14 months after the initial biopsy showed progressive clearing of cellular infiltrate , increasing interstitial fibrosis , and compensatory myocyte hypertrophy by 4 months . at 14 months scattered lymphocytes persisted but myocyte abnormalities had resolved completely . the patient remained symptom free and systolic function was normal during this recovery period . early endomyocardial biopsy ( within one week of diagnosis ) may yield useful histological information on the response to treatment in patients with myocarditis . it may not be necessary to wait the customary 3-4 weeks to repeat the biopsy . this case shows the chronology of histological changes and emphasises that a return to normal myocardial function may precede resolution of the histological abnormalities , which may persist in part or may resolve totally after the acute episode . 
lipoprotein ( a ) and coronary heart disease : a prospective case-control study in a general population sample of middle aged men . objective -- to examine the association between the serum lipoprotein ( a ) concentration and subsequent coronary heart disease . design -- prospective case-control study based on a six year follow up of a general population sample of men aged 50 at baseline in 1983-4 . serum samples were frozen at the time of the baseline examination and kept at -70 degrees c for six years , after which the lipoprotein ( a ) concentrations in the samples were measured in cases and controls . setting -- city of gothenburg , sweden . subjects -- 26 men , from a general population sample of 776 men , who had sustained a myocardial infarction or died of coronary heart disease during the six years and 109 randomly selected controls from the same sample who had remained free of myocardial infarction . in neither cases nor controls was there a history of myocardial infarction at baseline . main outcome measures -- proportion of myocardial infarction or deaths from coronary heart disease , or both , in relation to the serum lipoprotein ( a ) concentration . results -- men who suffered coronary heart disease had significantly higher serum lipoprotein ( a ) concentrations than controls ( mean difference 105 mg/l ; 95 % confidence interval 18 to 192 mg/l ) . men with the highest fifth of serum lipoprotein ( a ) concentrations ( cut off point 365 mg/l ) suffered a coronary heart disease rate which was more than twice that of men with the lowest four fifths of concentrations . logistic regression analysis showed the serum lipoprotein ( a ) concentration to be significantly associated with coronary heart disease independently of other risk factors . conclusion -- the serum lipoprotein ( a ) concentration in middle aged men is an independent risk factor for subsequent myocardial infarction or death from coronary heart disease . 
effect of thiazide on rates of bone mineral loss : a longitudinal study [ published erratum appears in bmj 1991 jan 26 ; 302 ( 6770 ) :18 ] objective -- to determine the effect of thiazide diuretic drugs on rates of bone mineral loss . design -- longitudinal , observational study with a mean follow up of five years . setting -- hawaii osteoporosis center , honolulu . subjects -- 1017 japanese-american men born between 1900 and 1920 , of whom 378 were treated for hypertension ( study group ) and 639 did not have hypertension ( control group ) . intervention -- thiazide diuretics were taken by 325 men for a mean of 11.9 years ; 53 men took antihypertensive drugs other than thiazides . main outcome measure -- rate of bone loss estimated from serial photon absorptiometric scanning at three skeletal sites ( calcaneus , distal radius , and proximal radius ) . results -- rates of bone loss at all three sites were significantly reduced among thiazide users when compared with controls . the reductions in loss rate ranged from 28.8 % ( p = 0.02 ) ( distal radius ) to 49.2 % ( p = 0.0005 ) ( calcaneus ) relative to the controls . at all three sites the men taking other antihypertensive drugs had faster loss rates ( 22.6-43 .1 % ) than those of the controls but the difference was significant only for the distal radius . conclusion -- thiazide diuretics slow the rate of bone loss in elderly men . 
primary defect in alpha-adrenergic responsiveness in patients with varicose veins . responsiveness of superficial hand veins to local infusions of noradrenaline was compared in patients with primary varicose veins and in healthy volunteers by use of the dorsal hand vein technique . patients with varicose veins required significantly higher doses of noradrenaline for half-maximal venoconstriction than the dose required by control subjects ( geometric mean , 11.6 ng/min in patients compared with 4.8 ng/min in control subjects ; p = 0.006 ) . noradrenaline responsiveness in varicose veins was not significantly different from hand vein responsiveness in the same patients . our findings indicate a constitutional decrease in venous alpha-adrenergic receptor responsiveness in patients with varicosities . dilation of varicose veins does not further affect noradrenaline-induced venoconstriction . 
calcium entry blockade and adrenergic vascular reactivity in hypertensives : differences between nicardipine and diltiazem . the interference of nicardipine and diltiazem infused into the brachial artery at systemically ineffective rates , with the forearm vascular response to graded exogenous norepinephrine , was evaluated in hypertensive patients . nicardipine ( 1 and 3 micrograms/dl forearm tissue/min in both absence and presence of propranolol ) increased forearm blood flow ( venous plethysmography ) and antagonized dose dependently the vasoconstrictor effect of norepinephrine , suggesting that functional alpha-antagonism may participate in the vasodilating and possibly the antihypertensive effect of the drug . on the contrary , no antagonism but rather potentiation of the responses to norepinephrine occurred after diltiazem ( 0.5 and 1 microgram/dl forearm tissue/min ) . because intra-arterial propranolol abolished that potentiating action of the drug , whereas the local vasodilation to isoproterenol was clearly reduced , diltiazem probably interfered with beta-adrenergic receptor-mediated vasorelaxing mechanisms in human forearm arterioles . the data further stress the heterogeneity of calcium entry blockers in humans . 
skeletal muscle metabolism in heart failure : a 31p nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy study of leg muscle . 1 . the gastrocnemius muscle of seven patients with mild to moderate chronic heart failure and of five healthy control subjects was studied using 31p nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy . spectra were collected at rest and during an incremental , symptom-limited , exercise protocol . blood flow was measured in the same study during brief interruptions to exercise . 2 . the phosphocreatine / ( phosphocreatine plus inorganic phosphate ) ratio was lower in patients with heart failure than in control subjects at an exercise rate of 1.5 w , although intracellular ph and blood flow were similar . 3 . the cytosolic free adenosine 5 ' - diphosphate concentration was markedly increased in patients with heart failure exercising at 1.5 w compared with control subjects exercising at the same workload . 4 . although the maximum workload achieved by patients with heart failure was less than half of that reached by control subjects , the ph and the phosphocreatine / ( phosphocreatine plus inorganic phosphate ) ratio were lower in patients with heart failure at maximal load . blood flow was less at maximal exercise in patients with heart failure than in control subjects in keeping with the reduced work load . 5 . the phosphocreatine depletion induced in the gastrocnemius muscle by exercise was more severe than previously described in the forearm of patients with heart failure . 6 . metabolic abnormalities in skeletal muscle may contribute to exercise intolerance in heart failure , particularly during submaximal exercise . 
dynamic association between artery shear flow condition and platelet cytosolic free ca2 + concentration in human hypertension . 1 . blood cells and vascular endothelial cells are subjected to a wide range of haemodynamically generated shear stress forces . in vitro , membrane stretching or shear stress have been observed to activate ion channels and cell metabolism and to facilitate erythrocyte and platelet aggregation . 2 . the present study was designed to evaluate the participation of shear stresses in the control of apparent platelet cytosolic free ca2 + concentration in hypertensive patients . 3 . shear conditions and platelet cytosolic free ca2 + concentration in vitro were studied after a dynamic perturbation induced by 3 months of double-blind treatment with one of two beta-antagonists , carteolol and atenolol . brachial artery wall shear rate and stress were estimated by means of a pulsed doppler velocimeter , and blood viscosity was measured by a co-axial viscometer at a shear rate of 96 s-1 . platelet cytosolic free ca2 + concentration was simultaneously measured by using the quin-2 fluorescent chelator . the direct effect of atenolol and carteolol on platelet cytosolic free ca2 + concentration in vitro was also measured after addition of the beta-blockers to platelet-rich plasma . 4 . atenolol and carteolol decreased blood pressure similarly but their effects on shear rate ( p less than 0.02 ) , shear stress ( p less than 0.01 ) and platelet cytosolic free ca2 + concentration ( p less than 0.05 ) differed after 3 months of therapy . in contrast , neither of the drugs significantly altered platelet cytosolic free ca2 + concentration , in vitro per se . 5 . in the overall population , strong positive correlations existed not only between changes in platelet cytosolic free ca2 + concentration and those in shear rate ( r = 0.81 , p less than 0.001 ) and shear stress ( r = 0.83 , p less than 0.001 ) , but also between their absolute values , suggesting a possible haemodynamic shear-dependent modulation of transmembrane ca2 + transport . 
prospective study on prevalence of esophageal chest pain in patients referred on an elective basis to a cardiac unit for suspected myocardial ischemia . the prevalence of esophageal chest pain was studied prospectively in patients referred on an elective basis to a cardiac unit for suspected myocardial ischemia . a group of 248 consecutive patients without previously documented heart disease was admitted for elective diagnostic coronary angiography . the clinical history classified 185 patients as having anginal pain and the coronary angiogram was normal in 48 of them . in 37 of these 48 patients full esophageal testing was performed including 24-hr intraesophageal ph and pressure recordings with indication of chest pain episodes as well as a number of esophageal provocation tests , ie , acid perfusion , edrophonium stimulation , balloon distension , and ergonovine stimulation , all performed under continuous esophageal manometric and electrocardiographic monitoring . in 19 of these 37 patients , the familiar chest pain could be reproduced by esophageal provocative testing without ischemic st-t segment alterations ; six of these 19 patients had also a positive 24-hr ph and pressure recording . these data strongly suggest an esophageal origin of chest pain in half the patients with typical angina and a normal coronary angiogram . 
ischemic colitis in a crack abuser . we report a case of acute colitis temporally associated with smoking crack . colonoscopy revealed a patchy left-sided hemorrhagic inflammation from the rectosigmoid colon to the splenic flexure . biopsy specimens were consistent with resolving ischemic colitis . this entity should be considered in the differential diagnosis of acute bloody diarrhea in recreational drug users . 
myocardial infarction prognostic scoring system . a myocardial infarction prognostic scoring system for patients treated in a coronary care unit is described . the prognostic significance of 22 variables , all which were available on admission , were analyzed . a prognostic index was then constructed by a modified stepwise logistic regressional analysis technique . the variables that were used in the scoring system were killip hemodynamic class , infarct location , and the maximal st segment elevation in a single lead . the scoring system was validated in an independent group of patients , including a group of patients treated with intravenous streptokinase . the scoring system may prove to be useful for individual patient prognostication and management strategies , and for the quantification of infarct severity for use in clinical studies . 
wellness motivation in cardiac rehabilitation . lack of patient adherence to prescribed regimens is a fundamental problem in cardiac rehabilitation programs . a causative factor in lack of patient adherence may be related to failure to address differences in individual health behavior motivation in cardiac rehabilitation . a group of 52 patients who had had myocardial infarction were sampled to test the relationship between social support systems , health locus of control , health value orientations , and wellness motivation . pearson correlation coefficients indicated significant positive correlations between health locus of control variables , health value orientation variations , and wellness motivation . health locus of control and health value orientation variables entered into a multiple regression equation to explain 32 % of the variation in wellness motivation . awareness of individual motivational responses that influence health behaviors in cardiac rehabilitation may enable nurses to develop intervention strategies for patients with cardiovascular disease who would benefit from modifying their risk-producing life-styles . 
is phase 2 cardiac rehabilitation necessary for early recovery of patients with cardiac disease ? a randomized , controlled study . in this study the effects of rehabilitation teaching plus exercise testing on perceived self-efficacy for and performance of daily activities were compared with and without exercise training . subjects were patients who had had myocardial infarction or cardiac surgery ( mean age 57.7 + / - 11.3 years ) and who had already received inpatient rehabilitation services . subjects were randomly assigned to one of three groups . treatment group 1 ( n = 11 ) received teaching , treadmill exercise testing , and exercise training ( three times weekly for 5 weeks ) . treatment group 2 ( n = 15 ) received only teaching and exercise testing . the control group ( n = 14 ) received only routine care without supervised exercise or teaching . measurements of self-efficacy and activity performance were made at hospital discharge and at 4 and 9 weeks after the cardiac event . repeated-measures analysis of variance showed an increase in self-efficacy scores ( p less than 0.001 ) and performance of physical activity ( p less than 0.001 ) for all groups . both treatment groups , especially the training group , obtained the highest scores , but differences between groups were nonsignificant ( p greater than 0.05 ) . these results indicate that in a sample of uncomplicated , motivated patients who had participated in a phase 1 inpatient rehabilitation program , substantial improvements in self-efficacy and performance of daily activities were made early in recovery , before the onset of phase 2 , formalized outpatient therapy . 
myocardial infarction in the young adult . cad in young male adults below the age of 40 years has generally been found to be associated with the usual risk factors associated with cad . in a lesser number of young adults , mis may be related to cocaine use . sympathomimetic effects and increase in myocardial oxygen demand are factors considered responsible for acute mi in cocaine-abusing patients . in young adults who are asymptomatic following an acute mi and who are able to pass treadmill exercise stress tests at levels of bruce stage 4 have been shown to have normal coronary arteriograms . thus this subset should not require routine coronary angiograms following an acute mi . 
proton magnetic resonance of exercise-induced water changes in gastrocnemius muscle . exercise-induced water concentration changes have been determined in the medial gastrocnemius muscle noninvasively with image-guided in vivo proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( mrs ) . these measurements were performed on seven normal male volunteers during and after isometric and ischemic-isometric exercise at 5 , 10 , and 20 % maximum voluntary contraction ( mvc ) . the observed water flux changes during different phases of exercise have been interpreted in terms of fluid transfer between the vasculature and exercising muscle . good correlation between individual mvc and changes in water fluxes and the decay of water content was observed after 20 % mvc exercise level . mrs results have been found to be consistent with those reported in the literature based on invasive biopsy techniques . 
selective pulmonary vasodilation with atp-mgcl2 during pulmonary hypertension in lambs . we investigated the effects of infusions of atp-mgcl2 on the circulation in 11 spontaneously breathing newborn lambs during pulmonary hypertension induced either by the infusion of u-46619 , a thromboxane a2 mimetic , or by hypoxia . during pulmonary hypertension induced by u-46619 , atp-mgcl2 ( 0.01-1 .0 mg.kg-1 . min-1 ) caused a significant dose-dependent decrease in pulmonary arterial pressure ( 12.4-40 .7 % , p less than 0.05 ) , while systemic arterial pressure decreased only at the highest doses ( p less than 0.05 ) . left atrial infusions of atp-mgcl2 caused systemic hypotension without decreasing pulmonary arterial pressure . during hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension , atp-mgcl2 caused a similar significant dose-dependent decrease in pulmonary arterial pressure ( 12.0-41 .1 % , p less than 0.05 ) , while systemic arterial pressure decreased only at high doses ( p less than 0.05 ) . regression analysis showed selectivity of the vasodilating effects of atp-mgcl2 for the pulmonary circulation during pulmonary hypertension induced either by u-46619 or hypoxia . atp-mgcl2 is a potent vasodilator with a rapid metabolism that allows for selective vasodilation of the vascular bed first encountered ( pulmonary or systemic ) . we conclude that infusions of atp-mgcl2 may be clinically useful in the treatment of children with pulmonary hypertension . 
venous and arterial thrombosis in patients who received adjuvant therapy for breast cancer . the records of 2,673 patients randomized according to seven consecutive eastern cooperative oncology group ( ecog ) studies of adjuvant therapy for breast cancer were reviewed for the occurrence of vascular complications . all protocols opened and closed between june 1977 and july 1987 . the objectives of the present study were ( 1 ) to compare the frequency of vascular complications among patients who received adjuvant therapy for breast cancer with patients on observation , and ( 2 ) to estimate the contribution of chemotherapy and hormonal therapy to the occurrence of venous and arterial thrombi . the frequency of thrombosis , both venous and arterial combined , was 5.4 % among patients who received adjuvant therapy and was 1.6 % among patients on observation ( p = .0002 ) . premenopausal patients who received chemotherapy and tamoxifen had significantly more venous complications than those who received chemotherapy without tamoxifen ( 2.8 % v 0.8 % , p = .03 ) . postmenopausal patients who received tamoxifen and chemotherapy had significantly more venous thrombi than those who received tamoxifen alone ( 8.0 % v 2.3 % , p = .03 ) or those who were observed ( 8.0 % v 0.4 % , p less than .0001 ) . premenopausal patients who received tamoxifen and chemotherapy had a 1.6 % frequency of arterial thrombosis , significantly more than patients who received chemotherapy alone ( 1.6 % v 0.0 % , p = .004 ) . the frequency of arterial thrombosis among postmenopausal patients was not significantly correlated with adjuvant therapy . in conclusion , patients who received adjuvant therapy for breast cancer had a 5.4 % frequency of thromboembolic complications , significantly more than those who were observed . the combination of chemotherapy and tamoxifen was associated with more venous and arterial thromboembolic complications than chemotherapy alone in premenopausal patients and with more venous thrombi than tamoxifen alone among postmenopausal patients . 
epirubicin at two dose levels with prednisolone as treatment for advanced breast cancer : the results of a randomized trial . two hundred eleven patients with advanced breast cancer were randomized to receive either epirubicin ( e ) 50 mg/m2 and prednisolone ( lep ) or e 100 mg/m2 and prednisolone ( hep ) . the intended treatment consisted of 16 courses of lep or eight courses of hep given at 3-weekly intervals . reasons for stopping treatment early included progressive disease , stable disease without symptomatic improvement , or severe toxicity deemed intolerable by either the patient or physician . toxicity was recorded at 3-weekly and response at 9-weekly intervals using the world health organization ( who ) criteria of response and toxicity . two hundred nine patients were eligible for analysis , 98 % of whom have been followed for more than a year . one hundred four patients received lep and 105 hep . significantly worse myelosuppression , alopecia , nausea and vomiting , and mucositis were seen in the high-dose arm ( p less than or equal to .001 ) . more patients in the lep arm stopped treatment before the fourth course than in the hep arm , and the commonest reason for stopping was progressive disease . a similar median number of courses was given in each arm . there was a significantly higher response in the hep arm ( hep - complete response [ cr ] + partial response [ pr ] = 41 % , lep - cr + pr = 23 % ) . despite this , no statistically significant differences was seen in overall survival or progression-free interval . the median survival for hep and lep was 44 and 46 weeks , respectively . 
a prospective randomized trial comparing epirubicin monochemotherapy to two fluorouracil , cyclophosphamide , and epirubicin regimens differing in epirubicin dose in advanced breast cancer patients . the french epirubicin study group the french epirubicin study group carried out a randomized trial comparing epirubicin alone 75 mg/m2 with fluorouracil ( 5fu ) 500 mg/m2 , cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2 , and epirubicin 50 mg/m2 ( fec 50 ) and 5fu 500 mg/m2 , cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2 , and epirubicin 75 mg/m2 ( fec 75 ) as first treatment for advanced breast cancer patients . patients were stratified according to whether or not there were bone metastases only . four hundred twelve patients entered this trial ; 378 were assessable for tolerability and 365 for efficacy . the overall response rates were comparable between fec 50 ( 44.6 % ) and fec 75 ( 44.7 % ) , but both were better than the epirubicin alone ( 30.6 % ) ( p = .04 and p = .0006 , respectively ) . the complete response rate was better in fec 75 ( 15.5 % ) than in fec 50 ( 7 % ) ( p = .025 ) or epirubicin ( 4 % ) ( p = .002 ) . similar results were obtained in the group of patients without bone-only metastases . no difference in the three treatments was observed in the patients with bone metastases only . mean durations of response were similar in the three groups , being 412 days , 440 days , and 350 days for fec 50 , fec 75 , and epirubicin , respectively . patients without previous adjuvant chemotherapy fared better than those with previous treatment ( without anthracyclines ) . tolerability was fair in the three groups . overall , the epirubicin-alone group showed better tolerance than the two other groups , which did not differ significantly . time to progression and survival were not different among the three groups , but more early relapses occurred in the epirubicin and fec 50 groups ; survival seemed to be better during the first 8 months in the fec 75 group , and the survival difference between the epirubicin group and the fec 75 group was of borderline significance . no difference in survival was observed between epirubicin - and fec 50-group patients , even though the response rate was significantly worse in the monochemotherapy group . 
the effects of etomidate on cerebral metabolism and blood flow in a canine model for hypoperfusion . the effects of etomidate , a nonbarbiturate cerebral metabolic depressant , on cerebral metabolism and blood flow were studied in 29 dogs during cerebral hypoperfusion . three groups of animals were studied during a 45-minute normotensive and a 30-minute hypotensive period : 10 control animals without etomidate , 11 animals receiving a 0.1-mg / kg etomidate bolus followed by an infusion of 0.05 mg/kg/min etomidate ( low-dose group ) , and eight animals receiving doses of etomidate sufficient to suppress electroencephalographic bursts ( high-dose group ) . the mean arterial pressure fell to similar levels ( p less than 0.05 ) during hypotension in all three groups ( 40 + / - 5 , 38 + / - 3 , and 27 + / - 6 mm hg , respectively ) . the mean cerebral oxygen extraction fraction rose ( p less than 0.05 ) from 0.23 + / - 0.02 to 0.55 + / - 0.08 in the five control animals tested and from 0.33 + / - 0.02 to 0.53 + / - 0.02 in the seven animals tested in the low-dose group , but did not increase ( p greater than 0.05 ) in the four animals tested in the high-dose group ( 0.24 + / - 0.03 to 0.23 + / - 0.05 ) . mean cerebral blood flow levels decreased in all groups during hypotension ( p less than 0.05 ) : 42 + / - 3 to 21 + / - 4 ml/100 gm/min ( 52 % + / - 12 % decrease ) in the five animals tested in the control group , 60 + / - 8 to 24 + / - 6 ml/100 gm/min ( 56 % + / - 13 % decrease ) in the four animals tested in the low-dose group , and 55 + / - 8 to 22 + / - 3 ml/100 gm/min ( 60 % + / - 4 % decrease ) in the four animals tested in the high-dose group . in summary , the cerebral oxygen extraction fraction increased in the control animals and low-dose recipients during hypotension , suggesting the presence of threatened cerebral tissue . in contrast , the cerebral oxygen extraction did not change during hypotension when high-dose etomidate was administered . it is concluded that high-dose etomidate may preserve the cerebral metabolic state during hypotension in the present model . 
myocardial metabolism of fluorodeoxyglucose compared to cell membrane integrity for the potassium analogue rubidium-82 for assessing infarct size in man by pet potassium loss from damaged myocardial cells is linearly related to cpk enzyme loss reflecting extent of necrosis . the potassium analog , rubidium-82 ( 82rb ) , is extracted after i.v. injection and retained in viable myocardium but is not trapped or washed out of necrotic regions . to compare myocardial cell metabolism with membrane dysfunction as indicators of necrosis/viability , 43 patients with evolving myocardial infarction and coronary arteriography had positron emission tomography using fluorodeoxyglucose ( fdg ) and the potassium analog 82rb . percent of heart showing fdg defects and 82rb washout on sequential images indicating failure to retain the potassium analogue were visually assessed and quantified by automated software . infarct size based on rubidium kinetics correlated closely with size and location on fdg images ( visual r = 0.93 , automated r = 0.82 ) , suggesting that loss of cell membrane integrity for trapping the potassium analog 82rb parallels loss of intracellular glucose metabolism , both comparable quantitative markers of myocardial necrosis/viability . 
clinical validation of a miniature nuclear probe system for continuous on-line monitoring of cardiac function and st-segment a new , miniature cesium iodide/photodiode nuclear probe ( the " cardioscint " ) has been developed for continuous on-line measurement of left ventricular function and the st-segment . ejection fraction ( ef ) measurements in 77 patients were compared with gated equilibrium radionuclide ventriculograms . the probe was positioned over the left ventricle by first using a blind positioning algorithm and then by using the gamma camera . background was measured both manually and automatically . there was good correlation between probe ( positioned blind ) and gamma camera ef with both manual ( r = 0.80 , n = 65 ) and automatic ( r = 0.78 , n = 66 ) backgrounds . use of the gamma camera did not significantly alter the results . correlation between the probe stroke counts and thermodilution-derived stroke index during atrial pacing in six subjects was also satisfactory ( r = 0.69 , n = 102 ) . thus , the cardioscint is able to provide a reliable estimate of ef and can track rapid changes in cardiac volumes . 
uk-68 ,798 : a novel , potent and highly selective class iii antiarrhythmic agent which blocks potassium channels in cardiac cells . uk-68 ,798 increased the duration and effective refractory period of cardiac action potentials recorded in vitro from canine ventricular muscle and purkinje fibers in a concentration dependent manner from 5 nm to 1 microm . the resting membrane potential , amplitude and maximum upstroke velocity of action potentials were unaffected by uk-68 ,798 , indicating the selective class iii antiarrhythmic properties of this agent . uk-68 ,798 ( 5 nm-1 microm ) increased the effective refractory period of isolated guinea pig papillary muscles at stimulation frequencies of 1 hz and 5 hz without influencing the conduction velocity , further confirming that uk-68 ,798 is devoid of class i antiarrhythmic activity including block of the sodium channel . studies using single voltage clamped guinea pig ventricular myocytes indicated that uk-68 ,798 at concentrations of 50 nm and 2 microm blocks a time-dependent k + current , with no appreciable effects on the time-independent k + current or the inward calcium current . uk-68 ,798 is therefore a highly selective k + channel blocking agent with class iii antiarrhythmic properties , a profile that holds considerable promise for the therapy of life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias . 
antiarrhythmic efficacy of a new class iii agent , uk-68 ,798 , during chronic myocardial infarction : evaluation using three-dimensional mapping . uk-68 ,798 is a potent class iii antiarrhythmic agent that selectively lengthens the effective refractory period ( erp ) in isolated tissue without affecting conduction velocity . the present study was performed to evaluate the antiarrhythmic efficacy of uk-68 ,798 ( 30 micrograms/kg i.v. ) in dogs with a previous myocardial infarction . uk-68 ,798 did not alter the pq interval or qrs duration of the surface electrocardiogram but did increase the q-tc interval significantly . the ventricular erp was increased significantly ( p less than .01 ) at a basic cycle length of stimulation of either 300 ms ( erp increased 24 + / - 10 ms ) or 250 ms ( erp increased 20 + / - 12 msec ) , indicating that the response was preserved at more rapid rates . uk-68 ,798 prevented the induction of sustained ventricular tachycardia in six of seven animals ( 86 % , p = .03 ) . however , uk-68 ,798 failed to prevent the induction of ventricular fibrillation ( vf ) in dogs where vf was the only arrhythmia induced . to evaluate the mechanisms responsible for the prevention of ventricular tachycardia and lack of efficacy against inducible vf , detailed three-dimensional activation mapping of the heart in vivo was used . induction of ventricular tachycardia was prevented by uk-68 ,798 due to a lengthening of the erp in the epicardial region surrounding the infarct with no effect on conduction velocity even in periinfarct regions bordering the infarct . in contrast , the induction of vf was dependent on a rapid nonreentrant or focal mechanism that was not altered by the lengthening of erp with uk-68 ,798 . thus , uk-68 ,798 is a selective class iii antiarrhythmic agent that is likely to be efficacious in preventing arrhythmias due to a reentrant mechanism in patients with a previous myocardial infarction . 
characterization of ly233569 on 5-lipoxygenase and reperfusion injury of ischemic myocardium . ly233569 produced concentration-dependent inhibition of isolated guinea pig 5-lipoxygenase ( 5-lpo ) and 5-lpo activity of human polymorphonuclear leukocytes in vitro ; ic50 values were 0.4 and 0.1 microm , respectively . ly233569 also inhibited ( ic50 approximately 1.8 microm ) zymosan-stimulated production of leukotriene b4 in canine whole blood but had little or no concomitant effect on the production of thromboxane b2 . concentrations of ly233569 as high as 10 microm did not inhibit production or scavenge superoxide from activated human neutrophils . in normal anesthetized dogs , infusion of ly233569 ( 0.11 mg/kg/min , i.v. ) for 6 hr produced persistent inhibition ( approximately 80 % ) of leukotriene b4 production in blood challenged ex vivo with zymosan ; the plasma concentration ( approximately 4 microm ) of ly233569 was consistent with in vitro data illustrating selective and maximal inhibition of 5-lpo . in subsequent experiments , myocardial infarct size was measured after 1 hr of occlusion of the circumflex coronary artery and 5 hr of reperfusion . continuous infusion of ly233569 ( 0.11 mg/kg/min , i.v. ) had little or no effect on base-line systolic arterial pressure , cardiac rate and the pressure rate product when compared with time-related changes observed in control dogs . ly233569 infusion also did not alter the degree of st-segment deviation or the intensity and duration of cardiac arrhythmias associated with coronary artery occlusion and reperfusion . resultant myocardial infarct sizes were 45 + / - 5 % of the left ventricle placed at risk in control dogs and 43 + / - 4 % in dogs given ly233569 . myeloperoxidase activity of infarcted myocardium did not differ between groups . 
vasculitis as a paraneoplastic syndrome . report of 11 cases and review of the literature . in a study of 222 patients with vasculitis , we identified 11 who had an associated neoplasia . seven had hematological neoplasia and 4 had solid malignant tumors . in 4 patients vasculitis gave the first evidence of the neoplasia or of its recurrence . nine of our patients had cutaneous vasculitis . the other 2 had vasculitis involving the intestine and resulted in acute abdomens . these 2 patients needed prednisone treatment for the vasculitis . neoplasia should be considered in patients with vasculitis without an apparent cause . 
a possible role for antiphospholipid antibodies in acquired cardiac valve deformity . we studied the frequency of antiphospholipid antibodies ( apl ) in patients undergoing cardiac valve replacement , and present the results in the context of the pathology of the valve lesions . forty-eight consecutive patients undergoing valve replacement were studied . of the whole group , 15 ( 31 % ) had antibody levels greater than 2 sd above the mean for a control group of healthy persons and 11 ( 23 % ) had a level of greater than 3 sd . there was an increased frequency of elevated antibody levels in patients with valves showing fibrocalcific change and a significant association between apl and valve thrombus . the possible role of these antibodies in the pathogenesis of the valve lesions is discussed . 
effects of prostaglandin e1 on collagen diseases with high levels of circulating immune complexes . prostaglandin e1 ( pge1 ) was administered to 4 patients with collagen diseases presenting with high levels of circulating immune complexes ( cic ) in sera . our study patients had progressive systemic sclerosis , systemic lupus erythematosus , polyarteritis nodosa , and rheumatoid arthritis . in all 4 patients , cic levels significantly decreased after administration of pge1 by continuous infusion at 10/ng/kg / min via central venous catheter for 72 h. in addition , the skin ulcer in a patient with pss healed completely , and the finger necrosis in a patient with ra improved . these results suggest that pge1 given by continuous venous infusion is effective in reducing cic , in addition to improving peripheral vascular disorders . 
mixed connective tissue disease with arterial thrombosis , antiphospholipid antibodies and heparin induced thrombocytopenia . we report a patient with mixed connective tissue disease ( mctd ) who presented with thrombosis of the right femoral artery in association with antiphospholipid antibodies ( apl ) . when treated surgically and with heparin prophylaxis , she developed heparin induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis which necessitated amputation of a lower limb . thus our patient developed 2 separate groups of autoantibodies associated with thrombotic events . our case highlights an association between thrombosis , apl and mctd . furthermore , it emphasizes a need for intensive monitoring when hypercoaguable individuals with connective tissue disorders are treated with heparin . 
microangiopathy in the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with the ingestion of l-tryptophan was recognized in late 1989 . we describe our pathologic study of skin , fascial , and muscle biopsies from 21 patients evaluated by light microscopy , histochemistry , and electron microscopy . a perivascular , lymphocytic infiltrate with eosinophils was present in the dermis , fascia , and skeletal muscle . lymphocytic infiltration of arteries and arterioles was seen . ultrastructurally , capillary and arteriolar endothelial cell thickening and necrosis was present . this microangiopathy suggests that ischemia may be a contributing factor to the findings in this syndrome . 
systemic toxic effects associated with high-dose verapamil infusion and chemotherapy administration . aside from its more conventional uses as a cardiovascular drug , the calcium channel blocker verapamil has recently been added to chemotherapeutic regimens to reduce drug resistance in b-cell and other neoplasms that express the p-glycoprotein . we recently treated patients with continuous-infusion verapamil ( 0.15 mg/kg per hour to 0.60 mg/kg per hour ) over a 5-day period in combination with continuous-infusion vincristine and doxorubicin plus oral dexamethasone . seventy-one courses involving 35 hospitalized patients were prospectively studied for cardiovascular and other side effects . cardiovascular side effects were observed most frequently and consisted of first-degree heart block , hypotension , sinus bradycardia , and junctional rhythms . we observed higher degree heart block , but the qrs interval remained narrow and the ventricular escape rate remained relatively normal . effects on mean arterial pressure , heart rate , and pr interval were both time and dose related . severe , symptomatic congestive heart failure was rarely observed . the most common noncardiovascular side effects were constipation , peripheral edema , and weight gain . all systemic toxic effects observed were easily treated or disappeared with either temporary or permanent discontinuation of the verapamil infusion or by a decrease in the dose of verapamil . we conclude that the cardiovascular side effects associated with continuous , high-dose intravenous verapamil therapy are significant and dose limiting but are rapidly reversible . less cardiotoxic chemosensitizers are needed to reverse multidrug resistance in cancer . 
coronary artery bypass operation in dialysis patients . to analyze the short - and long-term morbidity and mortality among maintenance dialysis patients who have undergone coronary artery bypass operations , we identified 25 such patients at the mayo clinic and three recently published large single-center studies that provided sufficient detail for meaningful comparison . two independent observers reviewed the new information with regard to pertinent historical , clinical , and laboratory data . the perioperative mortality was 20 % . among the perioperative survivors , 1 - and 2-year survival rates were 95 % and 77 % , respectively . the 3-year actuarial survival was 70 % . uniformly , the symptoms diminished , and the need for antianginal medication was decreased . in the three other large published series , the perioperative mortality ranged from 3 to 20 % , and coronary artery bypass performed earlier after the onset of the symptoms seemed to result in a lower perioperative mortality . we conclude that elective coronary artery bypass in dialysis patients is associated with acceptable short-term morbidity and mortality and effective relief of symptoms . surgically treated patients may have a survival advantage . thus , we advocate aggressive early investigation and surgical treatment of these patients . 
mortality in hereditary antithrombin-iii deficiency -- 1830 to 1989 to determine whether antithrombin-iii ( at-iii ) deficiency leads to an excess mortality , we studied 171 individuals from ten families with a proven hereditary deficiency . 73 were classified as certainly deficient either by direct measurement of at-iii concentration or by mendelian inheritance patterns . 98 individuals had a high probability ( 0.5 ) of deficiency . the 64 deaths recorded did not exceed those expected for the general population adjusted for age , sex , and calendar period . we suggest that a policy of prophylactic anticoagulation for patients with at-iii deficiency can not be recommended . 
interaction of citrus juices with felodipine and nifedipine six men with borderline hypertension took felodipine 5 mg with water , grapefruit juice , or orange juice . the mean felodipine bioavailability with grapefruit juice was 284 ( range 164-469 ) % of that with water . the dehydrofelodipine/felodipine auc ratio was lower , diastolic blood pressure lower , and heart rate higher with grapefruit juice than with water . vasodilatation-related side-effects were more frequent . orange juice had no such effects . six healthy men took nifedipine 10 mg with water or grapefruit juice ; the bioavailability with grapefruit juice was 134 ( 108-169 ) % of that with water . 
intracranial hemorrhage from aneurysms and arteriovenous malformations during pregnancy and the puerperium . intracranial hemorrhage ( ich ) from an intracranial aneurysm or arteriovenous malformation is a grave complication of pregnancy and is responsible for 5 to 12 % of all maternal deaths . we critically analyzed 154 cases of verified ich during pregnancy from an identified intracranial lesion , including 2 patients treated at our institution and 152 cases previously reported in the literature in english . aneurysms were responsible for ich in 77 % of patients , and arteriovenous malformations in 23 % . hemorrhage occurred antepartum in 92 % of patients and postpartum in 8 % . women with angiomatous hemorrhage were younger than those with aneurysmal hemorrhage ; however , in contrast to previous reports , we found no differences between angiomatous and aneurysmal hemorrhage with respect to parity or gestational age at the time of the initial hemorrhage . hypertension and/or albuminuria were present at some time during the pregnancy in 34 % of patients with documentation , which sometimes made it difficult to differentiate angiomatous or aneurysmal ich from that associated with eclampsia . in a logistic regression analysis , surgical management of aneurysms , but not arteriovenous malformations , was associated with significantly lower maternal and fetal mortality , independent of other covariants . for those patients with a lesion not operated on , cesarean delivery afforded no better maternal or fetal outcome than did vaginal delivery . we conclude that the decision to operate after ich during pregnancy should be based upon neurosurgical principles , whereas the method of delivery should be based upon obstetrical considerations . the perioperative and anesthetic management of the pregnant patient with a neurosurgical complication is discussed . 
brain retractor edema during induced hypotension : the effect of the rate of return of blood pressure . this study evaluated the hypothesis that the postoperative formation of cerebral edema may be influenced by the rate of blood pressure return after induced hypotension in a graded brain retractor injury . nineteen cats underwent unilateral craniotomy , isoflurane-induced hypotension to a mean of 50 mm hg , and application of a brain retractor at 20 mm hg of pressure for 1 hour . blood pressure was returned to normal either within 3 minutes or over 20 minutes . the degree of cerebral edema formation was determined by evans blue dye and coronal magnetic resonance imaging . all animals showed extravasation of evans blue dye in the retracted hemisphere that was most marked at the periphery of the retractor . t1 relaxation times were significantly prolonged in the retracted hemispheres of both the fast return and slow return groups ( 18.8 % and 17.8 % , respectively ) and more so at the evans blue sites ( 42.8 % and 40.8 % ) , although not so strikingly beneath the retractor itself ( 6.3 % and 7.8 % ) . t2 relaxation times were similarly prolonged but to approximately half the degree of the t1 times . in the nonretracted hemisphere , drug-induced hypotension alone did not result in significant acute cerebral edema or blood-brain barrier alteration . there was no significant difference between the fast and slow groups in evans blue extravasation or magnetic resonance changes . thus , in a retractor-induced brain injury , restoration of arterial pressure to normal either gradually or rapidly did not influence the degree or extent of edema formation . 
effects of repeated temporary clipping of the middle cerebral artery on pial arterial diameter , regional cerebral blood flow , and brain structure in cats . temporary clipping of the major arterial trunk is an important maneuver to control excessive unexpected bleeding in neurosurgical operations ; however , repeated temporary clipping can give rise to severe neurological deficits after surgery . the present study was performed to confirm and explain these clinical findings . initially , a single 20-minute or 1-hour occlusion of the middle cerebral artery was performed in each of 5 cats . pial arterial diameter was determined by video imaging , regional cerebral blood flow was measured by autoradiography , and cerebral edema and infarction were observed . in the 20-minute occlusion group , no abnormal changes were found 5 hours after recirculation . in the 1-hour occlusion group , pial arteries were dilated by 45 % , and regional cerebral blood flow increased to more than twice the resting cortical values . the extent of cerebral edema was 41.2 + / - 7.5 % ( se ) and infarction was 34.5 + / - 9.5 % ( se ) of the hemisphere . in the second experiment , three 20-minute occlusions of the middle cerebral artery in a 1-hour interval were performed in 20 cats . in 10 of them , thiopental ( 40 mg/kg ) was used to protect the brain . in the group without barbiturate treatment , pial arteries were dilated by 40 % at the end of experiment , regional cerebral blood flow decreased to about 70 % compared with single 20-minute occlusion , cerebral edema was 19.5 + / - 8.1 % ( se ) , and infarction was 8.1 + / - 3.7 % ( se ) of the hemisphere . in the treated group , these were only trivial changes . the effect of repeated clipping may cumulatively cause brain damage , and barbiturates should be used whenever repeated clipping is necessary . 
accelerated non-muscle contraction after subarachnoid hemorrhage : cerebrospinal fluid testing in a culture model . the cause of chronic cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage has been studied intensively , but it is still controversial whether the observable luminal narrowing should be attributed to the contraction of vascular smooth muscle cells or whether it results from some organic change in the wall . a proliferation of myointimal cells , accompanied by increased deposition of collagen , as well as myonecrosis , have been frequently observed several days after aneurysm rupture . studies from our laboratory showed that these myointimal cells had characteristics identical to myofibroblasts . in this study , we quantitatively and morphologically examined the effect of cerebrospinal fluid on the ability of myofibroblasts to alter collagen matrices using an in vitro model . myofibroblasts contract the collagen matrix by rearranging or compacting the framework of collagen fibers . cerebrospinal fluid obtained from patients with recently ruptured aneurysms significantly accelerated lattice contraction , especially when the patient developed symptomatic vasospasm . this study suggests that myofibroblasts in the spastic artery can produce a contractile force that contributes to chronic vasospasm , tightening the proliferated collagen . some unknown agent present in bloody cerebrospinal fluid accelerates the rearrangement of the collagen lattice by myofibroblasts , both of which have , until now , been considered non-contractile components . 
cerebral infarction and release of platelet thromboxane after subarachnoid hemorrhage . platelet aggregation induced by adenosine diphosphate and the release of thromboxane b2 were studied in 68 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage during the second week after the hemorrhage , when delayed ischemic deterioration most often occurs . follow-up computed tomographic scans were performed later than 1 month after subarachnoid hemorrhage to reveal permanent hypodense areas consistent with cerebral infarction . occurrence of hypodense lesions on the follow-up computed tomographic scan was significantly associated with the presence of delayed ischemic deterioration ( did ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . patients with subcortical or cortical cerebral infarctions due to did released more platelet thromboxane b2 than those with no evidence of a hypodense lesion on the computed tomographic scan ( p less than 0.05 ) . hypodense areas caused by an intracerebral hematoma or small , deep-seated infarcts due to did were not associated with significantly elevated release of thromboxane b2 , but the lacunar type infarcts were associated with increased aggregation of platelets . the results suggest that augmented platelet function may be involved in the pathogenesis of cerebral infarction due to did . 
spinal cord hemangioblastoma with subarachnoid hemorrhage . a case of subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by a cervical hemangioblastoma is presented . the clinical picture was indistinguishable from that of a subarachnoid hemorrhage from an intracranial lesion . the diagnosis was established by angiography and water-soluble contrast myelography followed by cervical computed tomographic scan . at surgery , the tumor was completely removed , and no neurological deficit was observed after the operation . 
spontaneous rupture of liver during pregnancy : current therapy . spontaneous hepatic rupture secondary to severe pregnancy-induced hypertension is associated with a high rate of maternal and fetal mortality . numerous types of surgical management have been described , but a uniform surgical approach has not been accepted . the purpose of this review was to examine modes of surgical therapy reported in the literature since 1976 , as well as the 11-year experience at our institution . twenty-eight cases were extracted from the literature and seven more were identified at our institution . the incidence in our population was one per 45,145 live births . among 27 cases managed by packing and drainage , an 82 % overall survival was achieved , whereas only 25 % of eight patients undergoing hepatic lobectomy survived ( p = .006 ) . hepatic hemorrhage with persistent hypotension unresponsive to blood products should be managed by evacuating the hematoma , packing the damaged liver , and draining the operative site . more aggressive surgical techniques , such as hepatic artery ligation or hepatic lobectomy , should be reserved for refractory cases . 
the effect of lateral tilt on maternal and fetal hemodynamic variables . we measured maternal blood pressure and heart rate , fetal heart rate , and umbilical artery velocity waveforms in 25 healthy women placed in the supine and in both right and left 5 degrees and 10 degrees lateral tilt positions . although we found no significant difference among these variables in the various maternal positions , two of 25 women became hypotensive and symptomatic in the supine and 5 degrees tilt positions . because we could not predict which women would become symptomatic , we recommend lateral tilt of all pregnant women during operative procedures beyond 20 weeks ' gestation , including those in the lithotomy position for vaginal delivery . 
parathyroidectomy in chronic renal failure : a nine-year follow-up study . seventy-three patients with chronic renal failure who underwent parathyroidectomy between march 1978 and april 1987 were reviewed . thirty-four patients had undergone sub-total parathyroidectomy , and 39 patients had undergone total parathyroidectomy with parathyroid autograft into the forearm . eight patients showed persistent hyperparathyroidism requiring a second surgical procedure . in all other patients there was highly statistical improvement in parathyroid hormone , total calcium , ionized calcium , alkaline phosphatase and a significant reduction in calcium x phosphate product . histological evidence of osteitis fibrosa was present in 21 of 22 patients before surgery . postoperatively , four showed complete resolution and improvement . three patients developed histological evidence of osteomalacia during the study period . only four of the 39 patients who underwent total parathyroidectomy with autograft had true recurrent hyperparathyroidism and only two of the 34 patients who underwent sub-total parathyroidectomy had recurrent disease , indicating that there is little to choose between the two techniques in the control of secondary hyperparathyroidism and its subsequent recurrence . in one patient with recurrence of hyperparathyroidism from a forearm parathyroid graft the histological picture was different from that of normal hyperplastic parathyroid tissue . although it is probable that abnormal parathyroid tissue had been implanted there was no evidence of invasive growth into the forearm muscle . the most striking feature of long term follow-up was the difference in calcium x phosphate product in patients in whom vascular calcification increased compared to those patients with no change or regression of calcification . mean calcium phosphate product in those patients with progressive vascular calcification was 4.93 for small and medium size vessels and 5.38 for large vessels compared to 4.10 for small and medium vessels and 4.09 for large vessels . in the former case the serum phosphate was 2.00 and 2.17 as compared to 1.75 or 1.73 , suggesting that the aim in patients with end stage renal failure maintained by dialysis should be to control the serum phosphate concentration to 1.8 mmol or less and the calcium x phosphate product to less than 4.2 . 
factors related to treatment resistance in hypertension . hypertension which is resistant to treatment carries a relatively bad prognosis . factors associated with treatment resistance were examined in a case-control study in a hospital hypertension clinic . patients with resistant hypertension had more severe hypertension and more frequently had evidence of end-organ damage on presentation to the clinic . the prevalence of accelerated phase hypertension , renovascular disease and impaired renal function was also higher in these patients . cigarette smoking , and the combination of cigarette smoking and heavy caffeine use , were greater in patients with resistant hypertension . resistant hypertension did not appear to be associated with older age , obesity , regular alcohol use , various psychological factors or non-compliance . these findings support an aggressive investigation policy in resistant hypertension , and underline the harmful effects of cigarette smoking to hypertensive subjects . 
risk for postoperative congestive heart failure . to identify predictors of postoperative congestive heart failure ( chf ) , a high-risk population , mainly hypertensive and diabetic patients undergoing elective general operations , was studied . of the 254 patients , 6 per cent had postoperative chf . among patients with preoperative cardiac disease ( that is , previous myocardial infarction , valvular disease or chf ) , 17 per cent had postoperative chf ; in contrast with less than 1 per cent of those without cardiac disease ( p less than 0.001 ) . patients with diabetes were also at high risk ( 12 versus 2 per cent , p less than 0.005 ) , particularly those with cardiac disease . patients who had equal to or greater than 40 millimeters of mercury increases or decreases intraoperatively in mean arterial pressure in relation to preoperative baseline had increased postoperative failure rates ( p less than 0.02 ) . of note , postoperative failure rates were highest among patients with less than 500 milliliters per hour of net intake ( input and output ) ( p less than 0.03 ) . risk for postoperative chf was restricted to patients with preoperative symptomatic cardiac disease and was especially high if patients also had diabetes . intraoperative fluctuations in mean arterial pressure increased the probability of postoperative failure , while the intraoperative administration of higher net volumes of fluid was associated with decreased risk . 
improved results with combined donor-specific transfusion ( dst ) and sequential therapy protocol . a combined dst-sequential cya therapy protocol has been described that results in optimum graft survival for 1 - and 2-haplotype mismatched living related donor-recipient combinations . in addition to the excellent graft survival obtained through 4 years , lower prednisone and cya dosage levels are achieved with significantly decreased infection rates during the posttransplant period . 
fluosol : an oxygen-delivery fluid for use in percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . fluosol ( 20 % intravascular perfluorochemical emulsion ) is an oxygen-carrying emulsion used to deliver oxygen to ischemic myocardium during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) . fluosol is composed of two perfluorochemicals , perfluorodecalin and perfluorotripropylamine . it has a high capacity for oxygen solubility , a low viscosity , and a small particle size . following administration , the perfluorochemicals in fluosol are not metabolized . rather , most are expired as gaseous particles through the lungs ; the remainder are taken up by the organs of the reticuloendothelial system and later expired . when administered during balloon inflation in ptca , fluosol preserves ventricular wall motion and global left ventricular ejection fraction . in addition , it minimizes st segment changes and preserves cardiac output . fluosol may be especially useful in patients who have poor contractile reserve , multivessel disease , or serious underlying illness . other uses under investigation include limitation of myocardial infarct size and chemosensitization or radiosensitization of malignant tumors . adverse effects secondary to the use of fluosol include ventricular arrhythmias , pruritus , bradycardia , chest pain , dyspnea , and increased respiratory rate . fluosol must be thawed , admixed , warmed to body temperature , and oxygenated prior to intracoronary administration . the usual administration rate is 60 ml/min during each balloon inflation . 
improving compliance and increasing control of hypertension : needs of special hypertensive populations . approximately 60 million people in the united states have hypertension . more than half are either untreated or treated without blood pressure control , despite the well-known risks of hypertension and the established benefits of treatment . the major reason for inadequate control of hypertension is poor adherence to treatment . approximately 50 % of patients with hypertension fail to keep follow-up appointments , and only 60 % take their medications as prescribed . barriers to effective therapeutic adherence include poor doctor-patient communication , cost of antihypertensive therapy , and side effects of the drugs . to increase control of hypertension , compliance with therapy must be improved . physicians and patients must be mutually committed to achieving control of blood pressure . physicians should communicate instructions clearly and prescribe therapies that are effective , affordable , and have minimal or no adverse effects on patient quality of life or overall cardiac risk profile . the needs of special hypertensive populations ( i.e. , elderly , black , and young patients ) must also be recognized and addressed . patients must follow recommendations and alert their physicians to any problems with their medications -- particularly those relating to side effects and cost . when selecting drug therapy it should be noted that older patients are sensitive to volume depletion and sympathetic inhibition . in this group of patients , initial drug doses should be low and increments smaller and more gradual than in younger patients . black patients with hypertension show an accentuated response to diuretics and blunted responses to beta-blockers and angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitors as monotherapy . however , when used with a diuretic , there are no racial differences in the blood pressure lowering effects of beta-blockers and ace inhibitors . 
do we need another antihypertensive agent ? the factors to be considered in selecting antihypertensive agents have traditionally centered around balancing efficacy against adverse side effects . the former can be achieved by a variety of agents alone or in combination . the latter not only involves safety but is also concerned with whether an otherwise safe agent is tolerated by the patient so compliance with the treatment regimen can be achieved . a relatively new consideration is how antihypertensive agents affect other disease states that may or may not be associated with hypertension . for example , how a drug may affect diabetes , gout , myocardial hypertrophy , atherosclerosis , and coronary events must be evaluated . these concerns taken together answer the question of why yet another antihypertensive agent may be needed in the pharmacologic armamentarium . 
preclinical pharmacology of celiprolol : a cardioselective beta-adrenergic antagonist and mild vasodilator . celiprolol is a new antihypertensive agent that represents a new generation of beta-blockers . it combines cardioselective beta-adrenergic antagonism ( beta 1 ) with a mild vasodilation via vasoselective beta-adrenergic agonism ( beta 2 ) . results of animal studies show that celiprolol has beta 1-antagonist potency similar to that of propranolol and atenolol , and cardioselectivity slightly greater than that of atenolol . celiprolol does not produce bronchoconstriction but has mild propranolol-resistant bronchodilatory properties in cats . the compound also relaxes vascular smooth muscle in a propranolol-sensitive fashion , suggesting a mechanism of beta 2-agonism . the beta 2-agonism results in a selective downregulation in beta 2-receptor number and response in tissue culture , as well as in peripheral tissue from celiprolol-treated volunteers . the decreases in beta 2-receptors are blocked by concomitant treatment with propranolol . celiprolol is devoid of cardiac depressant activity and in fact has mild cardiostimulatory actions . the cardiostimulation is not via beta 1-stimulation , since it is not abolished by beta-blocking doses of propranolol . in a model of severe myocardial ischemia , celiprolol attenuates the ischemia-induced myocardial acidosis and improves the regional segment function . these results are suggestive of myocardial protection . in summary , celiprolol distinguishes itself from other beta-blockers by virtue of its cardioselectivity , vasorelaxation via beta 2-agonism , and the lack of bronchoconstriction and cardiodepression . these properties observed in animal studies have also been documented in clinical trials . 
clinical safety and efficacy of celiprolol . the management of essential hypertension requires therapeutic selections that are not only effective in reducing diastolic blood pressure but are also tailored to the individual patient , with minimal effect on patient demographics , concurrent illnesses , and cardiovascular risk factors . celiprolol hydrochloride is a new highly cardioselective vasodilating beta-adrenoceptor antagonist that has been proven effective and safe for the treatment of essential hypertension . it is comparable to other therapies in blood pressure control while demonstrating an excellent safety profile , favorable hemodynamic activity , and minimal effects on other cardiovascular risk factors . celiprolol may offer the physician a unique therapeutic alternative . 
managing the whole patient with hypertension : practical applications in a clinical setting . physicians are aware of the value of treating hypertension . complications such as stroke and congestive heart failure are less likely to occur in the well-controlled patient . in our quest to add coronary heart disease to this list , we must go beyond simple reduction of blood pressure . we must consider other risk factors such as hypercholesterolemia , cigarette smoking , diabetes mellitus , and family history . the presence of one or more of these may indicate a more aggressive treatment approach . similarly the presence of left ventricular hypertrophy , coronary disease , or renal disease may indicate specific pharmacotherapy . on the other hand , the low-risk patient with no other problems or conditions may be treated with only nonpharmacologic therapy such as weight loss , dietary sodium reduction , and/or alcohol restriction . every patient has a different constellation of findings . every patient should be treated individually . it is no longer sufficient just to lower blood pressure ; we need to manage the whole patient with hypertension ; keeping in mind that most antihypertensive agents are equally effective , the side effect profile is often the decisive factor in choosing an antihypertensive agent . 
metabolic considerations in the choice of therapy for the patient with hypertension . the objective of treating patients with hypertension is not simply to reduce blood pressure but rather to prevent the associated morbidity and mortality . recent assessments of clinical trials have shown that while the risk of stroke is consistently lower with antihypertensive therapy , the same degree of success has not been demonstrated for coronary artery disease ( cad ) . although there are many explanations of why we have not done as well in preventing cad , one possibility is that the therapy used in clinical trials , primarily thiazide diuretics and beta-adrenoreceptor blockers , has increased the patient 's risk of developing coronary atherosclerosis or lethal arrhythmias . four classes of antihypertensive agents are recommended for initial therapy -- thiazide diuretics , beta-adrenoreceptor blockers , angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitors , and calcium entry blockers . the metabolic effects of thiazide diuretics include electrolyte disturbances ( hypokalemia , hypomagnesemia , and hyponatremia ) , dyslipidemia ( increased triglycerides ) , abnormalities of glucose metabolism ( hyperglycemia , hyperinsulinemia , and peripheral insulin resistance ) , and hyperuricemia . beta-adrenoreceptor blockers have many of the same metabolic adverse reactions . beta-adrenoreceptor blockers without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity ( isa ) also cause dyslipidemias ( lowered high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and increased triglycerides ) and abnormalities of glucose metabolism ( hyperglycemia , hyperinsulinemia , and peripheral insulin resistance ) . beta-adrenoreceptor blockers with isa and third-generation beta-blockers with selective partial agonist activity ( celiprolol and dilevalol ) do not cause dyslipidemia and to date do not appear to induce abnormalities in glucose metabolism . ace inhibitors may decrease triglycerides and increase high-density lipoprotein cholesterol , and captopril may improve insulin sensitivity . calcium entry blockers are metabolically neutral . 
hypertension with concomitant conditions : the changing role of beta-adrenoceptor blockade . hypertension often is associated with concomitant conditions such as chronic obstructive lung disease , diabetes mellitus , ischemic heart disease , and peripheral vascular disease . moreover , other cardiovascular risk factors , including dyslipidemias and abnormalities of glucose and insulin metabolism , are common in patients with hypertension . conventional beta-blockers used for antihypertensive therapy can have adverse effects in patients with airway disease , diabetes , and peripheral vascular disease , and can exaggerate the other risk factors . newer beta-blockers such as celiprolol , which have selective partial agonist activity expressed at beta 2-receptors , appear to avoid these problems . celiprolol exhibits antianginal and antihypertensive efficacy without adversely effecting left ventricular systolic function or exercise performance . it also may cause regression of left ventricular hypertrophy . the stimulatory action of celiprolol on vascular beta 2-receptors enhances regional flow and may increase walking distance in patients with claudication . the reduction in renal vascular resistance demonstrated by this drug is associated with preservation of renal blood flow and function . spirometric measurements of airway function are unchanged during celiprolol treatment . similarly , there are no adverse effects on lipid or glucose concentrations . these new developments in beta-blocker pharmacology indicate that this class of agents could be used in patients with hypertension with concomitant diseases or risk factors other than high blood pressure . 
clinical perspective on celiprolol : cardioprotective potential . beta-adrenergic blockers have had widespread use in the treatment of cardiovascular disease . some agents of this class have been shown to reduce the incidence of total mortality , cardiovascular mortality , sudden death , and nonfatal reinfarction in survivors of acute myocardial infarction . the mechanism for this cardioprotective action is not known . antiarrhythmic action and hemodynamic alterations have been suggested as possible mechanisms . an anticoagulant mechanism is another possibility , although the antiplatelet effects of beta-blockers are weak . it is now believed that antithrombotic effects may be related to the prevention of coronary artery plaque rupture and the subsequent propagation of an occlusive arterial thrombus rather than a direct anticoagulant action . the therapeutic ability beta-blockers to attenuate the hemodynamic consequences of catecholamine surgers , as they do in aortic dissection , may protect a vulnerable plaque from fracture , reducing the risk of coronary thrombosis , myocardial infarction , and death . celiprolol , a third-generation beta 1-selective adrenergic blocker with partial beta 2-agonist activity , is comparable to other beta-blockers in antihypertensive and antianginal activity . it has additional actions that may be beneficial to patients : ( 1 ) it does not adversely affect lipids and lipoproteins ; ( 2 ) it does not appear to depress the myocardium in patients with left ventricular dysfunction ; ( 3 ) it can lower serum fibrinogen levels ; and ( 4 ) it can cause regression of myocardial mass in patients with left ventricular hypertrophy . 
correlation of isomeric fatty acids in human adipose tissue with clinical risk factors for cardiovascular disease . the relationships between the adipose tissue concentrations of 19 geometric and positional fatty acid isomers and 10 cardiovascular disease risk factors were determined in 76 free-living adult males . the percentages for trans isomers ( total mean + / - sd 4.14 + / - 0.97 % ) and cis isomers ( total mean + / - sd 2.91 + / - 0.34 % ) in adipose tissue generally agreed with dietary estimates based on the consumption of hydrogenated oils . a major exception was the percentage of 11c-18 :1 , which was twofold higher in adipose tissue . the total level of fatty acid isomers in adipose tissue or a factor ( derived by factor analysis ) that was representative of isomers of dietary origin was not significantly correlated with the cardiovascular risk factors . only three trans isomers ( 11t-18 :1 , 12t-18 :1 , and 5t-14 :1 ) and three cis isomers ( 11c-18 :1 , 13c-18 :1 , and 7c-16 :1 ) were weakly correlated either positively or negatively with age , body mass index , plasma and lipoprotein cholesterol , and/or blood pressure ( p less than 0.05 , r greater than 0.231 ) . 
blood pressure lowering in elderly subjects : a double-blind crossover study of omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids . in 46 elderly ( aged greater than or equal to 60 y ) hypertensive subjects with entry systolic blood pressure ( sbp ) greater than or equal to 160 or diastolic blood pressure ( dbp ) greater than or equal to 90 mm hg , our specific aim in a randomized , double-blind , crossover study ( two 8-wk treatment periods separated by a 3-wk washout ) was to compare blood pressure-lowering effects of 9 g fish oil/d [ omega-3 ( n-3 ) fatty acid ] vs 9 g corn oil/d [ omega-6 ( n-6 ) fatty acid ] . after a 4-wk baseline period , 22 subjects were randomly assigned to receive fish oil and 24 to receive corn oil . for both 8-wk treatments there were no between-group differences in the change in blood pressure . there was a treatment difference for standing dbp when baseline values were compared with those after treatment 2 ; dbp decreased by 5.1 mm hg in the fish-oil group vs 0.72 mm hg in the corn-oil group ( p = 0.024 ) . within groups during the first treatment , both fish oil and corn oil lowered all four blood pressure measures ( p less than 0.05 ) ; blood pressures were not further lowered during the second treatment compared with the washout period . there were no significant between-group differences in laboratory safety tests or categorical side effects . fish oil lowered triglycerides by 0.47 mmol/l ( p less than 0.001 ) . in elderly subjects , diet plus both omega-3 and omega-6 supplements ( 9 g/d ) safely and effectively lower sbp and dbp . 
emergency aortocoronary bypass after failed angioplasty . one thousand two hundred fourteen percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasties were performed over a 38-month period . sixty patients required immediate emergency coronary artery bypass grafting after angioplasty failure ; 7 of these had evidence of acute myocardial infarction before angioplasty and were excluded from the study . of the 53 patients remaining , 27 ( 51 % ) had electrocardiographic and enzyme evidence of postoperative myocardial infarction . two patients died ( 4 % ) , and 10 had postoperative complications ( 19 % ) . no statistical significance was noted comparing age , sex , incidence of prior myocardial infarction or myocardial dysfunction , time for revascularization , or average number of grafts completed in those with single-vessel ( n = 21 ) versus multiple-vessel ( n = 32 ) coronary artery disease . postoperatively , those with multiple-vessel disease required intraaortic balloon pump support ( p = 0.06 ) and antiarrhythmic medications more frequently than single-vessel patients ( p less than 0.01 ) and had a higher complication rate ( p less than 0.05 ) . although not reaching statistical significance , the data also suggest a higher death and postoperative myocardial infarction rate in patients with multiple-vessel disease . emergency coronary artery bypass grafting after failed percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty carries a higher morbidity and mortality than elective coronary artery bypass grafting , particularly for patients with multiple-vessel coronary artery disease . 
long-term results after atrial correction of complete transposition of the great arteries . this study presents the late results for the first 104 consecutive patients surviving and atrial repair for transposition of the great arteries ( tga ) between january 1971 and december 1978 ( group 1 ) . mean follow-up was 12 years ( range , 0.1 to 17.7 years ) . the actuarial survival rate at 18 years was 84.2 % ( 70 % confidence limits , 79 % to 88 % ) for simple tga and 93.7 % ( 70 % confidence limits , 84 % to 97 % ) for complex tga . nine of the 11 deaths were sudden . two ( 2.6 % ) of the 78 late survivors operated on for simple tga are in new york heart association functional class iii or iv versus 4 ( 26.7 % ) of the 15 survivors with complex tga ; the other patients are doing very well . to better assess long-term results , we report the findings for randomly obtained electrocardiograms , holter monitor recordings , radionuclide angiographic studies , and cardiac catheterizations performed in 1987 in a larger group of 159 long-term survivors of atrial repair operated on at ospedale riuniti di bergamo from january 1971 to december 1984 ( group 2 ) , which includes all of group 1 . the findings confirm that the arterial switch repair is the procedure of choice for complex tga and that there is a major incidence ( approximately 10 % ) of systemic right ventricular dysfunction and rhythm disturbances after the atrial repair . on the other hand , our late survival rate at 18 years of 84 % for simple tga with 97.5 % of the patients in functional class i is a result that should be kept in mind , especially in institutions where the arterial switch is a relatively new approach and presumably is a higher risk to cause early death . 
when do cerebral emboli appear during open heart operations ? a transcranial doppler study . the transcranial doppler technique enabled the detection of cerebral air emboli in 10 of 10 patients during open-heart valve operations despite standard deairing procedures . with this technique , the occurrence of emboli in the right middle cerebral artery was followed continuously in patients undergoing aortic or mitral valve replacement . membrane oxygenators were used . scattered emboli were observed during the insertion of the aortic cannula , at the start of cardiopulmonary bypass , and after the declamping of the aorta with the heart beating while empty . during the period of aortic cross-clamping , no emboli were detected . despite careful deairing procedures , the recordings indicated a large amount of emboli during filling of the empty beating heart in all 10 patients . thus , this study indicates that cerebral emboli in open heart procedures are most likely to occur during the redistribution of blood from the heart-lung machine to the patient when the heart is beginning to eject actively , despite careful standard deairing procedures . meticulous deairing before declamping the aorta is strongly advocated . in addition , a short period of filling of the beating heart before final closure of the aortic incision or vent may decrease the incidence of cerebral emboli . a concomitant reduction in cerebral blood flow by hyperventilation or anesthetics or both during filling of the empty beating heart may also be beneficial . 
retrograde continuous warm blood cardioplegia : a new concept in myocardial protection this report presents the results in our first clinical series of patients receiving continuous warm blood cardioplegia through the coronary sinus . warm oxygenated blood cardioplegia has certain theoretical advantages , such as continuously supplying oxygen and substrates to the arrested heart while avoiding the side effects of hypothermia . retrograde infusion of cardioplegia also offers certain advantages ( eg , in valve operations and in patients with severe coronary artery disease ) that are complementary to warm blood cardioplegia . retrograde warm blood cardioplegia was used in 113 consecutive patients ( 85 men and 28 women with a mean age of 61 years ) undergoing various procedures . three percent of the patients died , 7 % needed transient intraaortic balloon pump support , 6 % had evidence of perioperative myocardial infarction , and 96 % had spontaneous return of rhythm . there were no coronary sinus injuries . this new technique of retrograde continuous warm blood cardioplegia is a simple , safe , and reliable method of myocardial protection that may change the way we currently protect the heart intraoperatively . 
coronary pathology predicts conduction disturbances after coronary artery bypass grafting . conduction disturbances after coronary artery bypass grafting may result from compromised septal blood flow . to examine this hypothesis we reviewed the preoperative coronary angiography of 55 consecutive patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting . thirty-five patients had either no lesion or a discrete lesion in the left anterior descending coronary artery that did not include the septal perforator ( type i anatomy ) . twenty patients had a lesion of the left anterior descending coronary artery at the origin of the first septal branch , a lesion of the first septal artery , or a pair of lesions in the left anterior descending coronary artery that straddled the origin of the first septal artery ; all lesions were proximal to the graft site ( type ii anatomy ) . none of the patients with type i anatomy had a major conduction disturbance after coronary artery bypass grafting . eleven of the patients with type ii anatomy had major conduction disturbances after coronary artery bypass grafting ; right bundle-branch block in 1 , right bundle-branch block and left anterior hemiblock in 2 , left bundle-branch block in 5 , and complete atrioventricular block that required pacemaker implantation in 3 ( p less than 0.001 ) . in the 20 patients with type ii anatomy , the appearance of conduction disturbances correlated well with the absence of retrograde flow to the septal branches from the right coronary artery ( p less than 0.01 ) . pathological lesions in the left anterior descending coronary artery that compromise flow in the first perforator and that do not provide an adequate circulation produce localized damage and conduction disturbances after coronary artery bypass grafting . this can be predicted from the preoperative angiographic anatomy . 
dopamine and high-dose insulin infusion ( glucose-insulin-potassium ) after a cardiac operation : effects on myocardial metabolism . myocardial insulin resistance , in association with surgical stress , restricts the availability of carbohydrates and increases the load of free fatty acids ( ffas ) on the heart . on theoretical grounds adrenergic drugs may be expected to aggravate this situation , whereas the opposite is expected from insulin . the influence of dopamine and a combination of dopamine ( 7 micrograms/kg body weight/min ) and high-dose insulin ( 7 iu/kg ) on myocardial energy metabolism was studied in 19 patients 4 to 6 hours after a coronary operation . infusion of dopamine ( 7 micrograms/kg body weight/min ) induced metabolic changes that may be unfavorable to the strained myocardium . there was an increase of the myocardial ffa load and a rise in myocardial oxygen expenditure by 60 % to 70 % . there changes were , however , not matched by an increase in myocardial substrate uptake . " oxygen wastage " of ffa metabolism at high circulating catecholamine levels is suggested . there were also signs suggesting an amplified systemic trauma response : systemic oxygen consumption increased by 15 % , and an increase in the arterial levels of ffas , glucose , and ketones was observed . divergent metabolic effects of dopamine and insulin were demonstrated . the most prominent metabolic effects of adding high-dose insulin to dopamine were a marked reduction of arterial ffa levels and a shift toward myocardial carbohydrate utilization at the expense of ffas . myocardial uptake of ffas ceased . myocardial insulin resistance may thus to a significant extent be overcome by supraphysiological doses of insulin , even during infusion of adrenergic drugs . 
misplaced caval filter and subsequent pericardial tamponade . use of the greenfield filter for partial caval interruption is generally accepted as the most reliable mechanical method of pulmonary embolus prophylaxis . however , there have been reports of a variety of ( usually nonfatal ) complications . we report here the near-fatal complication of acute pericardial tamponade after misplacement of a greenfield filter . because of the filter 's unusual location , retrieval required cardiopulmonary bypass , profound hyperthermia , and circulatory arrest . 
transesophageal echocardiography in acute aortic transection . confirming the diagnosis of acute transection of the descending aorta can be problematic . unnecessary patient movement and time delay are often associated with conventional investigations . we describe a patient in whom such an injury was clearly and quickly defined at the bedside by transesophageal echocardiography . 
delayed death from aortic root trauma . a 40-year-old man suffered blunt chest trauma , had a myocardial infarct 58 days later , and died unexpectedly 19 days after that . autopsy showed partial avulsion of a small branch of the right coronary artery with thrombus extending into the right coronary sinus of valsalva occluding the right coronary artery and causing a myocardial infarct . death was caused by a thromboembolus arising from the aortic root thrombus and occluding the left main coronary artery . the case is unusual in that the major consequences of the aortic root trauma were delayed , and death resulted from occlusion of both coronary arteries . 
tricuspid valve incompetence caused by nonpenetrating thoracic trauma . tricuspid valve incompetence from ruptured papillary muscle or chordae as a result of nonpenetrating trauma is uncommon . blunt trauma causing partial detachment of a leaflet from the annulus is very rare . we report the case of a young adult involved in a car accident who had these findings . operative repair with resuture of the leaflet to the annulus and annuloplasty using a carpentier ring resulted in complete recovery . 
apical aortic cannulation : application of an old method with new paraphernalia . an instrument assembly consisting of a special aortic cross-clamp and double-lumen perfusion cannula is presented . the application of these instruments allows occlusion of the ascending aorta traversed by the perfusion cannula inserted directly or through the apex of the heart as well as simultaneous left ventricular venting . 
randomised single blind trial to compare the toxicity of subconjunctival gentamicin and cefuroxime in cataract surgery . comparatively little attention has been paid to the conjunctival toxicity of antibiotics administered at the time of cataract surgery . we have observed the effect of subconjunctival gentamicin and cefuroxime injection , using colour photography in a randomised single blind trial of 121 patients undergoing routine cataract surgery . our results suggest that a hyperaemic eye is likely to occur about twice as often in patients injected with gentamicin ( p less than 0.001 ) . gentamicin is associated with more pain postoperatively ( p less than 0.05 ) . significant manifestations of gentamicin toxicity are conjunctival oedema and capillary closure . cefuroxime has some theoretical advantages over gentamicin in its antibacterial spectrum . 
infrainguinal bypass surgery : factors determining late graft patency . the results of 373 infrainguinal bypass grafts , in a single centre , between 1980 and 1988 are reviewed . one hundred and thirty in situ vein ( isv ) , 47 reversed saphenous vein ( rsv ) , 118 polytetrafluoroethylene ( ptfe ) and 78 human umbilical vein ( huv ) grafts were used . the indications for surgery were disabling claudication in 25 per cent of patients and limb salvage in 75 per cent . in 36 per cent of operations the distal anastomosis was above the knee and in 64 per cent it was below the knee . overall 5-year patency rates and limb salvage rates respectively were , for isv ( 41 and 69 per cent ) , rsv ( 62 and 90 per cent ) , ptfe ( 31 and 67 per cent ) and huv ( 29 and 59 per cent ) . there was no significant difference in patency among these grafts at the above-knee level , but significant differences between vein and prosthetic grafts were evident below the knee ( p less than 0.001 ) . using a proportional hazards model the three factors that consistently correlated with late graft patency were graft type ( p less than 0.001 ) , site of distal anastomosis ( p less than 0.001 ) and distal run-off ( p less than 0.001 ) . overall , the results suggest that prosthetic grafts are a suitable alternative to autogenous vein when the distal anastomosis is above the knee , but vein should always be used , if available , below the knee joint . 
popliteal aneurysms identified by intra-arterial streptokinase : a changing pattern of presentation . five patients presenting with chronic or subacute leg ischaemia due to thrombosed popliteal artery aneurysm are described . only one of these aneurysms was diagnosed before intra-arterial streptokinase infusion , which successfully lysed the thrombus in all cases . one aneurysm had been symptomatic for 5 years and another for 2 years . popliteal aneurysm may well be underdiagnosed as a cause of chronic leg ischaemia . 
muscle fatigue in mcardle 's disease . muscle fibre conduction velocity and surface emg frequency spectrum during ischaemic exercise . the origin of fatigue in mcardle 's disease is still a matter of debate . both a reduction of muscle membrane excitability and failure of excitation-contraction ( e-c ) coupling have been suggested as causes . we performed intermittent isometric biceps brachii contractions ( 80 % maximal voluntary contraction , rate 30/min ) under local ischaemia in 5 mcardle 's disease patients and 26 healthy controls . our results show that in mcardle 's disease the exerted force is less , the surface emg ( semg ) amplitude steadily increases , and that the power density spectrum ( pds ) shifts to lower frequencies , the latter without significant differences when compared with normals . the most important finding is that muscle membrane excitability remains unimpaired during ischaemic exercise , establishing a dominant role for intramuscular lactic acid formation in the reduction of muscle fibre conduction velocity seen in normal subjects . as is indicated by the shift of the pds towards lower frequencies , as well as by the increase in semg amplitude , it can be concluded that during ischaemic exercise in patients with myophosphorylase deficiency , fatigue occurs without alterations in muscle membrane excitability and is due to a failure of e-c coupling . 
influence of low osmolality contrast media on electrophysiology and hemodynamics in coronary angiography : differences between an ionic ( ioxaglate ) and a nonionic ( iohexol ) agent . it has recently been suggested that the addition of sodium to low osmolality contrast media may reduce the incidence of ventricular fibrillation and conduction disturbances during coronary angiography . in a randomized , double blind study of 30 patients undergoing coronary angiography we therefore examined the electrophysiological and hemodynamic effects of the two low osmolality contrast media-ioxaglate ( with sodium ) and iohexol ( without sodium ) . standard ecg , aortic blood pressure , and his bundle electrocardiogram were recorded . the contrast media were well tolerated and no serious arrhythmias were observed . both induced a transient decrement in systolic blood pressure and reduction in heart rate 10 s following contrast injection ( all p less than 0.01 ) . ioxaglate prolonged the qt interval at 10 s ( p less than 0.01 ) and also when analysed for the whole observation period ( 120 s ) ( p less than 0.05 ) , whereas iohexol did not cause any significant changes in the qt-interval . the ah-interval was prolonged by ioxaglate at 10 s ( p less than 0.01 ) , but not altered by iohexol . thus , other factors than osmolality and sodium content might contribute to qt prolongation , since only the contrast agents with sodium ( ioxaglate ) induced qt prolongation in this study . 
precertification for percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in medicare beneficiaries : a melting pot or a need for better national standards ? the health care financing administration has contracted with state peer review organizations ( pros ) in its effort to assure the quality of services and eliminate unreasonable and inappropriate care provided medicare beneficiaries . by law , each state pro must select 10 procedures for precertification . coronary angioplasty has been chosen by 45 pros for precertification and criteria in each state were developed with the advice of local physicians . this report describes the findings of a survey of these precertification criteria in an effort to determine their variability and to compare the pro criteria to published national criteria created by expert panels . current precertification criteria of medicare beneficiaries show significant variability in the priorities and the clinical practice of cardiologists in performing coronary angioplasty , despite established and published guidelines for its safe and efficacious use . it is likely that the establishment of locally based criteria for coronary angioplasty will be geographically uneven and probably have a less than expected impact on the care provided to medicare beneficiaries . 
mitral valve disruption following percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty . two cases of massive mitral regurgitation due to mitral valve disruption following percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty are reported . this severe complication occurred in two elderly women with recurrent mitral stenosis after previous surgical commissurotomy . due to their unstable hemodynamic and clinical condition , both patients underwent emergency valve replacement . at surgery , the commissures appeared fused and heavily calcified ; the chordae tendineae thickened , shortened , and fused ; and the leaflets presented a large tear with sheared edges . because the technical aspects of both procedures were unremarkable , the anatomic features of the mitral valve seemed to affect the occurrence of severe mitral regurgitation . percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty should be therefore applied carefully to patients with prior surgical valvotomy , in whom the structural alterations of the mitral apparatus may predispose to severe valvular damage . 
percutaneous balloon pulmonic valvuloplasty following treated endocarditis in a patient with congenital pulmonary valve stenosis . a 36-year-old woman with congenital pulmonary valve stenosis developed the rare complication of endocarditis of the valve . after successful sterilization of the valve , the patient underwent percutaneous balloon pulmonic valvuloplasty at a later date . the procedure successfully reduced the peak pulmonary valve gradient from 94 to 45 mm hg . percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty is the procedure of choice for treatment of congenital pulmonary valvular stenosis , even in the unusual patient who has healed endocarditis of the pulmonary valve . 
balloon valvuloplasty for fungal endocarditis induced stenosis of a bioprosthetic tricuspid valve . palliative treatment was provided without complications by double balloon valvuloplasty of a stenotic porcine tricuspid valve in a patient with fungal endocarditis . with two 15 mm diameter valvulotomy balloons the peak tricuspid gradient decreased from 21 to 7 mm hg and valve area increased from 0.3 to 1.2 cm2 . after the procedure the patient clinically improved ; however , valve replacement was not performed as planned because the patient developed an intracranial hemorrhage . she subsequently died of complications of fungemia . the present report demonstrates the possible use of valvuloplasty as a palliative procedure in selected patients with valvular stenosis involved with endocarditis . 
percutaneous balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty in sickle cell anemia : a case report . percutaneous balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty was performed on a 19-year-old female who had moderate pulmonary valve stenosis with sickle cell anemia . the patient developed sickle cell crisis resulting in occipital infarction , but she made a good recovery . we describe this case and the methods of reducing the risk of sickle cell crisis . 
rib compression of the coronary arteries . this report describes the finding of coronary artery narrowing caused by compression by an overlying rib in two patients with cardiomegaly . there is probably no clinical significance to this finding . the primary differential diagnostic entity is myocardial bridging . 
coronary stent implantation in acute vessel closure 48 hours after an unsatisfactory coronary angioplasty . we report the implantation of a balloon-expandable stent in a patient with acute vessel closure in the state of evolving myocardial infarction following 48 hr after unsatisfactory coronary angioplasty . the stent was implanted after successful recanalization of an occluded left anterior descending artery , with repeated unsatisfactory results of balloon angioplasty . adjunct thrombolytic therapy was contraindicated . no residual stenosis was documented in immediate control angiograms , or after 24 hr , 3 weeks , and 4 months . 
implantation of an endoluminal prosthesis at the distal anastomosis of a bypass graft for abrupt closure following balloon angioplasty . a coronary wallstent was implanted in a 10-year-old saphenous vein bypass graft following a ptca that was complicated by abrupt closure . anterograde flow was restored and no myocardial necrosis resulted . one week later , bypass surgery was performed due to a bleeding complication associated with the anticoagulation regimen . 
alfentanil pharmacokinetics in patients undergoing abdominal aortic surgery . the pharmacokinetics of alfentanil , 300 micrograms.kg-1 iv , were determined in patients undergoing elective abdominal aortic reconstruction . the mean age ( + / - sd ) of the patients was 64.3 + / - 7.4 yr ; their mean weight was 74.7 + / - 13.8 kg . five patients underwent aneurysm repair and six had aortobifemoral grafting . serum alfentanil concentrations were measured by gas-liquid chromatography in samples drawn at increasing intervals over a 24-hr period . a three-compartment model was fitted to the concentration versus time data . the volume of the central compartment and the volume of distribution at steady state ( vdss ) were 0.44 + / - 0.022 and 0.63 + / - 0.32 l.kg-1 , respectively . total drug clearance was 6.4 = 1.9 ml.min-1 . kg-1 . the elimination half-time was 3.7 + / - 2.6 hr . patient age was positively correlated with both vdss and elimination half-time . there were no significant correlations between the pharmacokinetic variables and the duration of aortic cross-clamping , the duration of surgery , or the rate or total volume of iv fluids infused intraoperatively . in general surgical patients , the elimination half-time of alfentanil has been reported to be 1.2-2 .0 hr . although the elimination half-time of alfentanil was longer in patients undergoing abdominal aortic surgery , alfentanil was eliminated much faster than either fentanyl or sufentanil in this patient population . 
transoesophageal echocardiogram may fail to diagnose perioperative myocardial infarction . we report a case in which a 55-yr-old man undergoing aortocoronary bypass was monitored with electrocardiogram and transoesophageal echocardiogram . intraoperative electrocardiogram and simultaneous ecg recordings using the holter monitor showed an st elevation of greater than 2 mm and new q wave formation in leads avf and v5 during skin closure . however , the transoesophageal echocardiogram showed no wall motion abnormalities . no significant haemodynamic abnormalities were observed during the period of intraoperative ecg changes . he was treated with nitroglycerin infusion . confirmation of a perioperative myocardial infarct was documented by postoperative 12-lead ecg and cpk-mb . a post-operative transthoracic echocardiogram showed a hypokinetic left ventricle with an anteroapical infarct . thus transoesophageal echocardiography failed to detect an apical wall motion abnormality when the probe was placed at the midpapillary level . this limitation can be overcome by periodically obtaining apical views or by using probes with more than one imaging plane . 
high incidence of cardiopulmonary complications associated with implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus in patients with advanced neurologic disease . objective : the purpose of our study was to examine the cardiopulmonary complications of a group of patients who had undergone implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus for treatment of neurologic disease . design : prospective study with partially matched historical controls . setting : tertiary care community medical center . patients and methods : seven patients with advanced parkinson 's disease and three patients with progressive supranuclear palsy underwent implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus . these patients were compared with respect to their cardiopulmonary complications with a control group who had undergone craniotomy and then compared with a control group who had undergone only abdominal surgery . results : in the study group , six patients developed major postoperative complications including development of large pleural effusions , lobar atelectasis , pneumonia , upper airway obstruction , and cardiac arrest . three patients had minor complications including development of small pleural effusions , subsegmental atelectasis , purulent bronchitis , mild congestive heart failure , and atrial flutter/fibrillation . one patient had an unremarkable postoperative course . the first control group , whose only surgery was a craniotomy , had only one major complication . the second control group , the abdominal surgery control group , had one major and five minor complications . conclusion : the particular neurologic disease , its severity , and the type of surgery performed appear to be causative factors in the high incidence of complications in the study group . 
cardioprotective effects of authentic nitric oxide in myocardial ischemia with reperfusion . background and methods : the purpose of this study was to determine the effects of nitric oxide ( no ) , believed to be endothelium-derived relaxing factor on reperfusion injury after myocardial ischemia ( mi ) . the effects of no were investigated in a 6-hr model of mi with reperfusion in open-chest , anesthetized cats . a solution containing no was infused iv starting 30 min after occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery , continuing through reperfusion 1 hr later , and lasting for 5.5 hr . estimated no concentration in the circulation was 1 to 2 x 10 ( -9 ) m. results : the areas-at-risk expressed as a percentage of the total left ventricular weights were not significantly different among either of the mi groups . however , the necrotic area ( expressed as a percentage of the myocardial area-at-risk ) was significantly ( p less than .01 ) lower in the no-treated mi cats compared with the mi + vehicle group . cardiac myeloperoxidase activities indicated that significantly ( p less than .05 ) fewer neutrophils were attracted to the necrotic zone of the no-treated mi cats when compared with mi cats receiving only the vehicle . sodium nitrate ( nano2 ) ( ph 7.4 ) , a major breakdown product of no , failed to exert any protective effect in this same model of mi and reperfusion . conclusions : no appears to provide significant myocardial protection after ischemia and reperfusion . no may afford cardioprotection by incorporation into circulating blood cells ( i.e. , neutrophils , platelets ) , thereby inhibiting their accumulation and adherence in the ischemic region , or by a direct cardiac cytoprotective effect . further studies using no donors rather than no would be an appropriate clinically relevant mode of treatment in mi . 
upper-extremity deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism . a prospective study . we prospectively evaluated the prevalence of pulmonary embolism ( pe ) in 30 consecutive patients with proved deep venous thrombosis ( dvt ) of the upper extremity . ten patients ( seven male and three female ; mean age , 43 years ) had primary dvt , and 20 patients ( 14 male and six female ; mean age , 52 years ) had catheter-related dvt . ventilation-perfusion lung scans were routinely performed at the time of hospital admission to all but one patient ( one patient was critically ill , and he died four days after dvt diagnosis because of massive pe ) . lung scan findings were normal in nine of ten patients with primary dvt , and they were indetermine in the remaining patient . by contrast , perfusion defects were considered highly suggestive of pe in four patients with catheter-related dvt ; two patients had indeterminate lung scans , and 13 patients had normal scans . we conclude that pe is not a rare complication in upper extremity dvt , and that patients with catheter-related dvt seem to be at a higher risk . 
deep venous thrombosis . implications after open heart surgery . we reviewed the cases of 10,638 cardiac surgical patients to determine the incidence of deep vein thrombosis ( dvt ) after open heart surgery ( ohs ) . seventy-seven patients ( 0.7 percent ) had dvt . group 1 included 36 patients who had dvt without pulmonary embolism ( pe ) . occurrence was equal in either leg . anticoagulation with heparin and warfarin sodium ( coumadin ) was employed as treatment . extension of hospital stay was 10.8 days . group 2 consisted of 41 patients who experienced pe 9.9 days after ohs . sixteen patients had known dvt and were receiving heparin . in 25 patients , pe was the first event . risk factors for pe included perioperative myocardial infarction ( 16 percent ) , atrial fibrillation ( 41 percent ) ; blood type a ( 70 percent ) ( p less than 0.05 ) , and coronary artery bypass graft ( cabg ) ( 98 percent ) . twenty-four patients were treated with anti-coagulation alone . six died of recurrent pe ; mortality was 25 percent . seventeen patients received anticoagulation plus inferior vena cava ( ivc ) interruption using a hunter balloon . there were no recurrent pes and there was one death from myocardial infarction ( 6 percent ) . deep vein thrombosis and pe are rare complications of ohs . routine prophylaxis with either heparin or warfarin is unnecessary . patients with dvt , atrial fibrillation ( af ) , and perioperative myocardial infarction are at high risk of pe . aggressive diagnosis to identify major venous thrombi along with anticoagulation and early consideration of ivc interruption are recommended for these patients . patients who have undergone ohs and who have pe are at an unusually high risk for recurrent pe with death and are more safely treated with ivc interruption and anticoagulation than anticoagulation alone . 
pulmonary function and cardiovascular risk factor relationships in black and in white young men and women . the cardia study pulmonary function is known to be related inversely to incidence of coronary heart disease , congestive heart failure , chronic obstructive lung disease , lung cancer , and death from all causes . reasons for some of these associations are poorly understood . relationships between cardiovascular disease risk factors and pulmonary function were examined in 5,115 18 - to 30-year-old black and white male and female participants in the study of coronary artery risk development in young adults ( cardia ) . forced expiratory volume in 1 s adjusted for height ( fev1/ht2 ) was significantly lower in smokers than nonsmokers and in persons who reported shortness of breath ; fev1/ht2 was correlated positively with a history of strenuous physical activity , duration of exercise on the treadmill , and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol . it was associated negatively with skinfold thicknesses , serum triglycerides , fasting serum insulin , and the cook medley scale of hostility . the association between pulmonary function and heart disease risk may reflect associations with physical fitness , vigor , fatness , and lipid profiles , as well as with cigarette smoking . 
catecholamine-induced cardiomyopathy in multiple endocrine neoplasia . a histologic , ultrastructural , and biochemical study . a catecholamine-induced dilated cardiomyopathy is reported in a patient with multiple endocrine neoplasia , type 3 . a histologic and ultrastructural study has been undertaken in cardiac biopsy samples , together with determination of myocardial ca + + and cellular membrane fatty acids . contraction band necrosis of cardiocytes with supercontraction of sarcomeres progressing to myofibrolysis and increased levels of myocardial ca + + have been found as morphologic and biochemical abnormalities , respectively . no lipoperoxidation of cellular membranes or an alpha-adrenergic mediated reduction of coronary supply could be recognized in the study . we indicate a receptor-mediated intracellular ca + + overload as the main abnormality responsible for myocardial impairment . 
ischemia and reperfusion during intermittent coronary occlusion in man . studies of electrocardiographic changes and cpk release . the course of 357 balloon inflations performed during 38 angioplasties for single-vessel coronary artery disease was prospectively studied using continuous ecg recording . ischemic ecg changes appeared during 91 percent of the inflations at a mean of 20 + / - 8 seconds after inflation and resolved in 97 percent of those at a mean of 11 + / - 5 seconds after deflation . elevation of the plasma cpk level was found in six patients who had ischemic ecg changes for at least 7.8 minutes . the duration of ischemia did not exceed 5.4 minutes in any of the patients without cpk elevation . resolution of the ischemic changes was delayed in patients with cpk elevation and in last vs initial inflations . we conclude that in patients with noninfarcted myocardium , ecg changes follow coronary occlusion and reflow very rapidly , detecting these coronary events with a high sensitivity . lack of rapid regression predicts lack of reperfusion , and persistence of ischemia for more than 7.8 minutes is sufficient to cause myocardial necrosis . 
efficacy and safety of intravenous nicardipine in the control of postoperative hypertension . iv nicardipine study group . in a double-blind , randomized , multicenter study , the efficacy and safety of intravenous ( iv ) nicardipine was compared with placebo in the control of postoperative hypertension in cardiac and noncardiac surgical patients . one hundred twenty-two patients ( 17 cardiac and 105 noncardiac surgery ) met the entry criteria ( systolic bp greater than or equal to 140 mm hg or diastolic bp greater than or equal to 95 mm hg ) and were randomized ( 3:2 ) to receive iv nicardipine ( n = 71 ) or placebo ( n = 51 ) . therapeutic response ( greater than or equal to 15 percent reduction in bp from baseline ) was achieved in 94 percent of patients treated with iv nicardipine vs 12 percent with placebo ( p less than 0.001 ) . the mean response time and infusion rate for iv nicardipine were 11.5 ( + / - 0.8 ) minutes and 12.8 ( + / - 0.3 ) mg/h , respectively . the magnitude of bp reduction was similar in both cardiac and noncardiac postsurgical patients . blood pressure control was sustained with minimal dose adjustments of iv nicardipine ( 3.0 + / - 0.2 mg/h ) during a prolonged maintenance infusion period of 6.8 + / - 0.5 h. a reflex mean increase in heart rate of 5 bpm was seen in patients treated with iv nicardipine . sixteen patients ( 15 noncardiac and one cardiac surgery ) had a sustained heart rate of greater than 100 bpm , with a mean increase of 24 bpm from the baseline . in all these patients except three , tachycardia was resolved while receiving nicardipine . none of these patients who had development of tachycardia during nicardipine therapy had exhibited st segment changes indicative of ischemia . one patient with tachycardia at baseline had exhibited st segment depression ( 3 to 4 mm ) during nicardipine treatment , which was resolved following discontinuation of nicardipine therapy and application of nitroglycerin ( nitropaste ) . hemodynamic evaluation revealed that iv nicardipine significantly decreased mean arterial pressure , systemic vascular resistance , and significantly increased cardiac index with no change in heart rate . these hemodynamic changes were similar in cardiac and noncardiac surgical patients . adverse experiences reported with iv nicardipine included hypotension ( 4.5 percent ) , tachycardia ( 2.7 percent ) , and nausea/vomiting ( 4.5 percent ) . in the placebo group , the incidence of adverse experience was 6 percent , with an equal distribution of hypotension ( 2 percent ) , nausea/vomiting ( 2 percent ) , and headache ( 2 percent ) . no clinically important changes in laboratory variables related to iv nicardipine were reported . in conclusion , these findings indicate that nicardipine , a titratable intravenous calcium channel blocker , can rapidly and effectively control postoperative hypertension in cardiac and noncardiac surgical patients . 
seven-pathogen tricuspid endocarditis in an intravenous drug abuser . pitfalls in laboratory diagnosis . polymicrobial endocarditis is being reported with increasing frequency in drug abusers . however , the full extent of infection may be unrecognized with routine blood culture techniques because of the overgrowth of more fastidious organisms by other pathogens . this report documents an intravenous drug abuser with the first reported case of tricuspid valve endocarditis involving seven pathogens , discusses pitfalls of routine blood cultures and examines the role of the laboratory in microbiologic diagnosis . 
auto-peep during cpr . an " occult " cause of electromechanical dissociation ? a 64-year-old man with severe copd developed refractory nonperfusing sinus rhythm after intubation and positive-pressure ventilation . fifteen minutes after resuscitative efforts were halted , the patient was noted to have spontaneous respirations and blood pressure , suggesting that dynamic hyperinflation was responsible for the observed electromechanical dissociation ( emd ) . we recommend a brief trial of apnea for patients with copd and emd when conventional measures are unsuccessful . 
pulmonary embolism presenting as exercise-induced hypotension . a 68-year-old man with remote history of previous myocardial infarction presented with a four-week history of intermittent dyspnea . after developing hypotension during an exercise tolerance test , he underwent cardiac catheterization , revealing significant pulmonary hypertension and two-vessel coronary artery disease . pulmonary angiography confirmed the presence of pulmonary emboli which partially resolved after thrombolytic therapy . subsequent treadmill testing confirmed the absence of exercise-induced hypotension two months following treatment . this case underscores the importance of considering pulmonary embolism as a potential cause of exercise-induced hypotension , since it can be successfully treated with thrombolytic agents weeks after the initial onset of symptoms . 
regression of the left main trunk lesion by steroid administration in takayasu 's aortitis . a 62-year-old man with unstable angina due to severe narrowing of the left main trunk ( lmt ) was examined . emergency bypass surgery was performed with an internal mammary artery graft , instead of a saphenous vein graft , because of the thickened , edematous ascending aorta . postoperative coronary angiography showed the lesion of the lmt markedly regressing . presumably , this stenotic lesion of the lmt was caused by active aortitis and was partially reversible by steroid administration both during and after surgery . steroid therapy can be added to the list of treatments for cases of lmt disease associated with takayasu 's aortitis , if signs of active inflammation are present . 
monitoring the effect of cpap on left ventricular function using continuous mixed-blood saturation . the hypothetic benefit of cpap on cardiac performance and on a reduction in vo2 was tested in a patient before heart transplantation after acute myocardial infarction using continuous svo2 monitoring . the cpap added to inotropic support ( enoximone plus dobutamine ) and intraaortic balloon pumping dramatically increased svo2 in relation to both an increase in cardiac output and a decrease in vo2 secondary to respiratory work reduction , validating the initial hypotheses . 
pseudo pre-excitation with concertina effect in idioventricular tachycardia . the concertina effect is a phenomenon where the qrs complexes reflect alternating phases of gradual widening and narrowing . this is most commonly due to ventricular pre-excitation , and the changes in qrs morphology are due to variability of the ventricular zone that undergoes pre-excitation . this presentation reflects a case where the concertina effect is due to an idioventricular tachycardia at a rate nearly identical to the sinus rate . variable degrees of ventricular fusion therefore occur , and the concertina effect ensues , in relation to slight variations of the sinus cycle . 
total left main coronary artery occlusion after aortic aneurysm repair and valve replacement . a 38-year-old woman with complete occlusion of the left main coronary artery secondary to cannulation during aortic valve replacement is presented . the clinical course was characterized by progressive left ventricular dysfunction and congestive heart failure . recognition of this potential problem when it occurs is important as to institute therapeutic measures which may interrupt a patient 's progressive clinical deterioration . 
cardiac tamponade and contralateral hemothorax after subclavian vein catheterization . a patient developed life-threatening cardiac tamponade and contralateral hemothorax after insertion of a subclavian catheter in the operating room . contrast was infused through the catheter , demonstrating its malposition in the pericardial space . contrast infusion was valuable in evaluating this complication of central line placement . 
renal effects of cyclosporine . renal dysfunction is a frequent consequence of cyclosporine administration , even when cyclosporine blood concentrations are maintained within proper therapeutic levels . as dermatologic indications for this compound expand , it is important for clinicians to understand the relevant pharmacology and physiology that underlie cyclosporine-induced renal dysfunction . this article reviews the clinical pharmacology of cyclosporine , the principles of renal function testing , and the clinical manifestations of this drug 's effects on the kidney . sudden declines in kidney function , long-term cyclosporine nephrotoxicity , hemolytic-uremic syndrome , and hypertension are discussed from a clinical and experimental standpoint . finally , practical suggestions are provided to aid the dermatologist in managing cyclosporine-treated patients . 
genetic data and natural history of friedreich 's disease : a study of 80 italian patients . the clinical and genetic features of 80 patients with friedreich 's disease from 64 families are described . diagnostic criteria were : no evidence of dominant inheritance , onset by the age of 20 years , progressive unremitting ataxia of limbs and gait , and absence of knee and ankle jerks . furthermore , at least one of the following accessory signs was present : dysarthria , extensor plantar response and echocardiographic evidence of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . two peaks of onset age were evident at 6-9 and 12-15 years . analysis of intra-family variation of onset age and absence of clustering of cardiomyopathy and diabetes did not suggest genetic heterogeneity . peripheral nerve impairment was an early finding and showed slight further progression , whereas involvement of the cerebellar and corticospinal pathways appeared later and mainly accounted for the progressive worsening of the disease . 
traumatic and spontaneous extracranial internal carotid artery dissections . seventy patients with spontaneous and 21 with traumatic extracranial internal carotid artery dissections were studied clinically and angiographically with mean follow-ups of 64 ( spontaneous group ) and 40 months ( traumatic group ) . sixty percent of the patients in the spontaneous group and 71 % in the traumatic group also had follow-up angiograms . in traumatic dissections aneurysms were common , significantly fewer aneurysms resolved or became smaller and fewer stenoses resolved or improved , whereas more stenoses progressed to occlusion . traumatic dissections were more likely to leave the patients with neurological deficits . a significantly higher percentage of the patients with spontaneous dissections were asymptomatic at follow-up compared with the traumatic group . although both spontaneous and traumatic dissections of extracranial internal carotid arteries mostly carry a good prognosis , the outcome may be somewhat less favorable for the traumatic group . 
progressive inflammatory lesions of the brain parenchyma in localized scleroderma of the head . a patient with localized scleroderma of the head , uveitis , and raynaud 's phenomenon presented with generalized seizures , spastic hemiparesis , and local igg production in the cerebrospinal fluid . magnetic resonance imaging revealed progressive cortical and subcortical brain parenchymal lesions mainly adjacent to the cutaneous and bony lesions and probably of inflammatory origin . 
prospective randomized multicenter comparison of in situ and reversed vein infrapopliteal bypasses . we have performed a prospective , randomized , multicenter study to compare in situ and reversed vein grafts for long limb salvage bypasses from the proximal thigh to an infrapopliteal artery . three hundred eighty-four patients required an infrapopliteal bypass for critical lower extremity ischemia . of these , 259 were excluded because a short vein bypass was performed or because the vein was considered inadequate . the remaining 125 patients had a randomized vein bypass , 63 reversed , 62 in situ . the two groups were similar with regard to risk factors , indications , graft dimensions , and outflow . secondary patency at 30 months was similar for both techniques : reversed 67 % + / - 9 % ( + / - se ) ; in situ 69 % + / - 8 % . for veins less than or equal to 3.0 mm in minimum distended diameter 24-month patency rates were 61 % + / - 22 % for 12 in situ veins and 37 % + / - 29 % for 10 reversed veins ( p greater than 0.05 ) . angiographic evaluation of failing grafts revealed lesions similar in type and frequency in both types of grafts . these included focal ( in situ , n = 4 ; reversed , n = 7 ) and diffuse vein hyperplasia ( in situ , n = 2 ; reversed , n = 1 ) , and inflow and outflow stenoses ( in situ , n = 4 ; reversed , n = 3 ) . the incidence of wound complications and the mortality rate were similar for the two groups . these data show no significant difference in overall patency rates for the two types of vein grafts at 2 1/2 years . 
durability of vein graft revision : the outcome of secondary procedures . occlusive lesions that reduced graft blood flow and ankle systolic pressure were identified in 83 femorodistal saphenous vein bypasses by use of duplex scanning or arteriography . sites of stenosis included vein conduit ( n = 41 ) , anastomoses ( n = 20 ) , outflow arteries ( n = 15 ) , or inflow ( n = 9 ) arteries . one hundred three secondary procedures consisting of vein-patch angioplasty ( n = 31 ) , sequential ( n = 21 ) or interposition ( n = 17 ) graft placement , percutaneous transluminal balloon angioplasty ( n = 17 ) , or excision of the lesion and primary anastomosis ( n = 16 ) were performed to correct primary ( n = 85 ) or recurrent ( n = 18 ) graft stenoses . cumulative graft patency after reintervention was 96 % at 1 year , and 85 % at 5 years . stenosis or occlusion of revision sites was less after excision ( 0 of 16 ) or replacement ( 1 of 17 ) of abnormal segments compared to vein-patch angioplasty ( 8 of 31 ) or balloon angioplasty ( 9 of 18 ) . sequential or jump grafts constructed to improve graft outflow impaired by either myointimal or atherosclerotic occlusive lesions were the least durable secondary procedures . five of eight graft failures in this series resulted from sequential/jump graft occlusion . all categories of secondary procedures normalized graft and limb hemodynamics , although only one third of patients reported symptoms of limb ischemia before revision . surveillance of infrainguinal vein bypasses for occlusive lesions is a valid concept to salvage patent but hemodynamically-failing grafts . secondary procedures that excised the lesion , used autologous tissue reconstruction , and normalized hemodynamics at the revision site and in the vein bypass were associated with a low incidence of restenosis and prolonged graft patency . 
simultaneous operative repair of multilevel lower extremity occlusive disease . sixty-two patients ( 39 men ( 63 % ) , 23 women ( 27 % ) , mean age 68 years ) with multilevel lower extremity arterial occlusive disease underwent simultaneous inflow and outflow operative arterial repair consisting of aortofemoral bypass in 22 ( 35 % ) , axillofemoral bypass in 17 ( 28 % ) , femorofemoral bypass in 15 ( 24 % ) , iliac endarterectomy in 7 ( 11 % ) , and unilateral aortoiliac bypass in 1 ( 2 % ) , combined with 69 outflow procedures ( unilateral in 55 patients , 89 % ) , including above-knee femoropopliteal in 12 ( 17 % ) , below-knee femoropopliteal in 35 ( 51 % ) , femoroinfrapopliteal in 20 ( 29 % ) , popliteal tibial in 1 ( 1 % ) , and femoropedal bypass in 1 ( 1 % ) . multiple criteria were used to identify patients with multilevel disease likely to benefit from multilevel procedures . the operations were performed by two operating teams in a median time of 240 minutes . prosthetic grafts were used for eight ( 13 % ) distal bypasses , the remainder were autogenous vein . there was one operative death ( 1.8 % ) . the mortality rate , morbidity rate , and operative time were not significantly different from a group of patients who underwent concurrent , isolated inflow operations ( aortofemoral , axillobifemoral , femorofemoral bypass or iliac endarterectomy ) . mean follow-up was 14.9 months ( range , 0 to 120 ) . the life-table primary patency for the inflow procedures was 92.6 % at 24 months , the outflow was 94.9 % at 24 months . cumulative limb salvage was 90.9 % at 48-month follow-up . all patients with claudication were relieved of their symptoms . we conclude that complete correction of multilevel disease can be accomplished with operative time , morbidity rate , and patency equal to that of single level repair . multilevel procedures provide complete relief of symptoms in a higher percentage of patients than has been reported after single level repair . 
laser angioplasty in peripheral vascular disease : symptomatic versus hemodynamic results . most early reports on the efficacy of laser angioplasty have used subjective symptoms rather than objective hemodynamic parameters to evaluate clinical results . we reviewed our experience with hot tip laser-assisted balloon angioplasty in 99 occluded or stenotic arterial segments during 80 procedures in 71 patients , ranging from the aortic bifurcation to the tibial-peroneal trunk . initial failure to successfully recanalize occluded or stenotic segments occurred in 13 instances ( 16 % ) . forty-one procedure-related complications occurred in 31 patients ( 39 % ) . functional results were evaluated by use of life-table methods on the basis of symptomatic versus hemodynamic improvement . cumulative patency rates for symptomatic and hemodynamic improvement were 91 % and 64 % at 1 month , 71 % and 48 % at 6 months , and 57 % and 34 % at 1 year , respectively . these data suggest that symptomatic improvement alone gives a misleadingly high estimate of the efficacy of laser angioplasty when compared with more objective hemodynamic criteria ( p less than 0.005 ) . hemodynamic success was more likely in aortoiliac lesions than femoropopliteal lesions ( 58 % vs 18 % at 1 year , p less than 0.01 ) . hemodynamic parameters should be used to evaluate the success of laser angioplasty , which in its present form , is associated with frequent complications and poor long-term success . 
abdominal aortic aneurysm with perianeurysmal fibrosis : experience from 11 swedish vascular centers . case records of 2026 patients operated on because of abdominal aortic aneurysms from 11 swedish vascular centers were reviewed and revealed 98 cases ( 4.8 % ) of inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm . also included in this case-control study was an analysis of a randomized group of 82 patients from the same centers who had noninflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms . four inflammatory aneurysms were ruptured , compared with 16 in the noninflammatory group ( p less than 0.01 ) . a higher proportion of patients with inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms had symptoms that led to radiographic investigations . the median erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 39 mm versus 19 mm ( 26 % of patients with inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms had erythrocyte sedimentation rates greater than 50 mm ; p less than 0.001 ) , and the serum creatinine level was increased in 27 and 8 patients ( p less than 0.01 ) in the inflammatory and noninflammatory groups , respectively . preoperative investigations revealed ureteral obstruction in 19 patients with inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms , of whom 12 had preoperative nephrostomy or ureteral catheter placement . at operation , 20 additional patients exhibited fibrosis around one or both ureters . although ureterolysis was performed in 19 patients , preoperative and postoperative creatinine levels did not differ between these patients and the conservatively treated ones . duration of surgery ( 215 vs 218 minutes ) , intraoperative blood loss ( 2085 vs 2400 ml ) and complications did not differ significantly between the groups . overall operative ( 30-day ) mortality was equal ( 11 % vs 12 % ) but was increased for patients undergoing elective surgery for inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms ( 9 % vs 0 % ; p = 0.03 ) . 
ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm : the harborview experience . during the last decade ( 1980 to 1989 ) 186 patients with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm were admitted to a single urban hospital . ninety-six percent of these patients had a prehospital systolic blood pressure less than 90 mm hg . management included paramedic field resuscitation and transport , an emergency department diagnostic protocol completed in an average of 12 minutes , rapid transport to a dedicated emergency operating room , aneurysmorrhaphy by general surgery chief residents under the supervision of specialist vascular surgeons , and skilled postoperative intensive care unit care . nevertheless , 130 ( 70 % ) patients died in the first 30 postoperative days -- 3 % in the emergency department , 13 % in the operating room , 51 % in the intensive care unit , and 3 % on the ward or at home . certain features -- age greater than 80 years , female gender , persistent preoperative hypotension despite aggressive crystalloid and blood replacement , admission hematocrit less than 25 , transfusion requirements exceeding 15 units -- were associated with a greater than 90 % likelihood of death . no patient with preoperative cardiac arrest survived more than 24 hours . from this experience we conclude that , although " optimal " prehospital , emergency department , operating room , and postoperative care can improve the outcome of patients with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms in shock , most such patients will die . certain clinical features predict such excessive mortality rates after ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms that withholding operation may be reasonable . screening of patients at high risk for abdominal aortic aneurysm , followed by elective aneurysmorrhaphy , is clearly indicated . 
probability of rupture of an abdominal aortic aneurysm after an unrelated operative procedure : a prospective study . it has been assumed by some authors that patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms may be at increased risk of rupture after unrelated operations . from july 1986 to december 1989 , 33 patients ( 29 men , 4 women ) with a known abdominal aortic aneurysm underwent 45 operations . twenty-eight patients had an infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm , and five patients had a thoracoabdominal aneurysm . the abdominal aortic aneurysm ranged in transverse diameter from 3.0 to 8.5 cm ( average 5.6 cm ) . twenty-seven patients underwent a single operation , and six patients had two or more ( range of 1 to 6 ) . operations performed were abdominal ( 13 ) ; cardiothoracic ( 9 ) ; head/neck ( 2 ) ; other vascular ( 11 ) ; urologic ( 7 ) ; amputation ( 2 ) ; breast ( 1 ) . general anesthesia was used in 29 procedures , spinal/epidural in 6 , and regional/local in 10 . one postoperative death occurred from cardiopulmonary failure . one patient died of a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm at 20 days after coronary artery bypass ( 1/33 patients [ 3 % ] ; 1/45 operations [ 2 % ] ) . fourteen patients had repair of their abdominal aortic aneurysm at a later date , an average of 18 weeks after operation . four patients had abdominal aortic aneurysm considered too small to warrant resection ( average 3.6 cm ) . four patients were considered at excessive risk for elective repair . the five thoracoabdominal aneurysm were not repaired . four patients are awaiting repair . during this same 40-month period , two other patients , not known to have an abdominal aortic aneurysm , died of a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm after another operative procedure , at 21 days and 77 days . all three ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms were 5.0 cm or greater in transverse diameter . 
aortocaval and iliac arteriovenous fistulas : recognition and treatment . despite the well characterized physiologic effects of aortocaval or iliac arteriovenous fistulas , patients with such uncommon lesions may manifest a diverse array of symptoms , and diagnosis is often delayed or overlooked . to examine clinical features that facilitate recognition and allow successful repair , a 30-year experience with 20 such fistulas was reviewed . fourteen fistulas were caused by aneurysm erosion , four followed iatrogenic injury during lumbar disk surgery , and two developed from abdominal gunshot wounds . the interval from presumed occurrence to diagnosis ranged from 3 hours to 8 years . the diagnosis was not recognized before surgery in five ( 25 % ) patients . back pain ( 70 % ) was the most common symptom . the presence of a typical abdominal bruit ( 80 % ) was the most reliable physical finding , but its significance was occasionally overlooked or misinterpreted . congestive heart failure was prominent in only seven ( 35 % ) patients . severe lower extremity edema and mottling was the primary manifestation in eight cases , often causing initial confusion with venous thrombosis . hematuria ( 5 patients ) and oliguric renal failure ( 4 patients ) , both fully reversible after fistula repair , also caused diagnostic uncertainty . the mean preoperative cardiac output was 12.2 l/min , falling to 5.4 l/min with fistula repair . mean blood loss was 5960 ml , supporting use of intraoperative autotransfusion . two operative deaths ( 10 % ) occurred , both in patients not correctly diagnosed before surgery . despite varied modes of presentation , prompt recognition and use of appropriate operative techniques should achieve successful repair . 
the accuracy of ct scanning in the diagnosis of abdominal and thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms . as ct scanning has evolved as a reliable clinical tool , the use of angiography in the diagnosis of aortic aneurysmal disease has diminished . fewer than 25 % of patients with aortic aneurysmal disease undergo aortic angiographic evaluation at our institution . a prospective clinical study was undertaken to assess the validity of this policy . one hundred patients with clinical or ultrasonographic evidence of aortic aneurysms were evaluated prospectively during the period july 1987 to december 1989 . all patients underwent ct scanning as an initial evaluation . patients were selected for angiography if they fulfilled any of the following criteria : radiographic evidence of thoracoabdominal or juxtarenal aneurysms , or horseshoe kidney ; or clinical suggestion of renal artery stenosis , mesenteric arterial insufficiency , aortoiliac occlusive disease , or lower extremity aneurysmal disease . during this period 19 patients ( 19 % ) underwent both ct scanning and angiography . the indications for angiography were thoracoabdominal aneurysms ( 7 ) , juxtarenal aneurysms ( 2 ) , clinical evidence of mesenteric insufficiency ( 1 ) or renal insufficiency ( 2 ) , evidence of lower extremity aneurysmal disease ( 3 ) , or severe aortoiliac occlusive disease ( 4 ) . eighty-one patients ( 81 % ) underwent ct scanning as the only radiographic evaluation . no patient was adversely affected by elimination of angiographic evaluation . ct scanning revealed inflammatory aneurysms ( 4 ) , retroaortic renal veins ( 2 ) , and horseshoe kidney ( 1 ) . this study suggests that most ( 81 % ) patients with aortic aneurysmal disease can be adequately evaluated by ct scanning , and that a very selective policy of angiographic evaluation is indicated . 
magnetic resonance imaging : a reliable test for the evaluation of proximal atherosclerotic renal arterial stenosis . symptomatic renal artery stenosis is a significant and treatable clinical problem . a reliable and accurate noninvasive method of screening for renal artery stenosis has not yet been found . we used magnetic resonance imaging to study 37 patients who had undergone recent renal angiography . fourteen patients had normal renal arteries by angiography . in 23 patients either unilateral or bilateral stenosis or occlusion was present . the disease process in all patients appeared to be atherosclerosis . the average age of the 37 patients was 68 years . the magnetic resonance scans and angiograms were read independently by two different radiologists , each of whom was blinded to the clinical history and the results of the other study . renal arterial stenoses found on angiogram and magnetic resonance scans were graded as absent ( 0 % to 24 % ) , mild ( 25 % to 49 % ) , moderate ( 50 % to 74 % ) , or severe ( 75 % to 99 % ) . the magnetic resonance imaging results concurred with the angiographic findings in 70 of 77 arteries ( 91 % ) . magnetic resonance imaging predicted the presence of a greater than 50 % stenosis of the renal artery with a sensitivity of 100 % and a specificity of 94 % . magnetic resonance imaging may prove to be the best noninvasive screening test for proximal atherosclerotic renal arterial stenosis . 
a prospective study of the incidence and natural history of femoral vascular complications after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . over a 14-month period patients undergoing 144 percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty procedures were evaluated for the presence of complications at the femoral puncture site . after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty each patient was examined by a surgeon , and then a color-flow duplex scan of the groin was obtained . on the initial scan eight pseudoaneurysms , three arteriovenous fistulas , one combined arteriovenous fistula-pseudoaneurysm , and one thrombosed superficial femoral artery were detected for a major vascular complication rate of 9 % . pseudoaneurysm formation was associated with the use of heparin after removal of the arterial sheath . seven pseudoaneurysms ( initial extravascular cavity size range 1.3 to 3.5 cm ) were followed with weekly duplex scans , and all thrombosed spontaneously within 4 weeks of detection . the three patients with isolated arteriovenous fistulas were each followed for at least 8 weeks , and the arteriovenous fistulas persisted . early surgical intervention for postcatheterization femoral pseudoaneurysms is usually unnecessary as thrombosis often occurs spontaneously . we would advocate an operative approach for pseudoaneurysms that are symptomatic , expanding , or associated with large hematomas . iatrogenic femoral arteriovenous fistulas should be considered for elective repair , but this may be delayed for several weeks without adverse sequelae . 
lacunar transient ischaemic attacks : a clinically useful concept ? lacunar ischaemic stroke syndromes are clinically , pathophysiologically , and prognostically distinguishable from cortical ischaemic stroke syndromes . could cerebrovascular transient ischaemic attacks ( tias ) share similar heterogeneity ? 130 patients with tias were prospectively studied , 71 of whom underwent carotid angiography . symptoms were associated with a 50 % or greater stenosis of the ipsilateral internal carotid artery in 36 ( 67 % ) of 54 patients with presumed cortical tias , but in only 1 ( 6 % ) of 17 patients with presumed lacunar tias ( p less than 0.0001 ) . these findings support the view that cortical tias are associated with ipsilateral extracranial internal carotid artery atheromatous disease , whereas patients with lacunar tias may have absent or insignificant large-vessel disease , and probable intracranial small-vessel disease . accurate distinction between lacunar and cortical events may have implications for investigation and treatment of patients with tias . 
degenerative aortic stenosis . one effect of the graying of america . degenerative calcific aortic stenosis is evolving as a common geriatric problem . once symptoms develop , it is a highly lethal disease that does not respond well to medical therapy . aortic balloon valvuloplasty may offer palliation but is unlikely to alter the overall course of the disease . aortic valve replacement is the therapy of choice , but high perioperative morbidity and mortality rates can be expected in the very elderly . the presence of other appreciable cardiac disorders may contribute to the occurrence of postoperative complications . patients with asymptomatic aortic stenosis and normal left ventricular function can be treated medically and followed with serial aortic valve area determinations using doppler echocardiography . 
when is pulmonary artery catheterization worth the risks ? bedside pulmonary artery catheterization has proven to be an important addition to the clinical assessment of critically ill patients . properly used , the procedure may provide hemodynamic information that is not apparent from physical examination or radiography . it may be safely accomplished through various venous routes , but care must be taken to avoid potential complications . 
cholesterol screening in a black inner-city pediatric population . a screening for total blood cholesterol levels was conducted by the university of louisville department of family practice in association with the national youth sports program in louisville , kentucky . on may 30 , 1987 , 224 inner-city children between 10 and 16 years of age were tested ; 109 ( 49 % ) were girls and 115 ( 51 % ) were boys . all participants were black . of the entire population , the girls had a slightly lower mean level of cholesterol than the boys ( 160 mg/dl vs 165 mg/dl , respectively ) . because of the large number of participants aged 10 to 14 years ( 211 ) , this subset of children was studied more closely . in this age group , 47 ( 22 % ) of the children were at moderate risk for future cardiovascular disease and 48 ( 23 % ) were at high risk . the serum cholesterol levels were relatively constant in all children until age 12 , after which a slight reduction occurred . this decrease is more evident in boys . our study also showed a correlation between increased blood cholesterol and above normal weight/height indices ( ie , quetelet scores ) , with nearly 70 % of all children having elevated cholesterol levels also exhibiting above normal quetelet scores . we observed no correlation between high cholesterol levels and high blood pressure in this study population . dietary intervention is recommended as the initial treatment for elevated cholesterol levels in children . 
infrainguinal revascularization for limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease . we studied the efficacy of infrainguinal bypass for limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease . the patency of 42 femoropopliteal and femorodistal bypasses , performed for limb salvage in 37 patients with end-stage renal disease , was assessed with doppler ultrasonography and dye tests . patency rates and limb salvage were determined by life-table analysis . average age was 45 years ( range , 28 to 61 years ) ; 23 of the 37 were men . twenty-three patients had diabetes mellitus , and 16 were smokers . bypass procedures were done in 32 instances while the patients were maintained with chronic hemodialysis and in five instances with peritoneal dialysis ; in five instances the patients had had successful renal transplantation . indications for revascularization included pain at rest , nonhealing ulcer , or distal gangrene . femoropopliteal bypass was done in 32 limbs ; 10 were more distal procedures . reversed saphenous vein was the conduit in 30 cases ; prosthetic material was used in the remainder . autogenous material was used in all distal bypasses . four patients required graft revision during the initial hospitalization , but none thereafter . two patients died within the operative period , nine within 18 months of operation . nine major operations were required . three-month cumulative graft patency was achieved in 41 cases and corresponding limb salvage in 33 cases ; 18-month patency was achieved in 34 cases and overall limb salvage in 33 cases . success of limb salvage most closely correlated with preoperative ankle-brachial ratio and level of bypass required . 
relationship between blood groups and behavior patterns in men who have had myocardial infarction . consistent correlations have been found between physical dysfunctional states and blood factors . some of these disorders have possible psychosomatic components ( eg , duodenal ulcer , myocardial infarction ) . this study focused on the relationship between blood types and various indices of behavior patterns ( eg , type a behavior scores , anger ratings ) in young patients who had had an initial myocardial infarction . patients with blood type o scored significantly higher on type a behavior scales and related indices than those having blood type a. those with blood group b responded on several scales between those with types a and o. we discuss the utility of blood groupings in future research in the prediction of myocardial infarction , methodologic limitations , the relationship of these results to temperament studies , jenkins activity survey subtest patterns , anti-h reactivity pattern , and hypotheses relating blood factors and behavioral traits in patients with psychosomatic disorders . 
deep venous thrombosis in intravenous cocaine abuse mimicking septic arthritis of the shoulder . we describe two patients with deep venous thrombosis of the upper extremity who initially were thought to have septic arthritis of the shoulder . these patients had a history of recent intravenous cocaine abuse . the diagnosis of deep venous thrombosis should be considered when a patient with a swollen shoulder has an appropriate history . 
unfavorable outcome following early surgical repair of ruptured cerebral aneurysms -- a critical review of 238 patients . among 238 consecutive patients admitted early with ruptured cerebral aneurysms , surgical repair within 48-72 hours was feasible in 200 cases . unfavorable outcomes among the latter 200 patients are analyzed and discussed in this paper . preoperatively , 148 patients were in hunt and hess grades i-iii , 33 were in grade iv , and 19 in grade v. after clipping of the aneurysm , all patients received a regimen of topical intracisternal and intravenous/peroral medication with the calcium antagonist nimodipine . the overall rate of unfavorable outcomes was 25 % , ie , outcome with moderate or severe deficit or lethal outcome . the reasons for unfavorable outcomes among these 49 patients were the devastating effect of the bleed ( severe subarachnoid hemorrhage or additional intracerebral hemorrhage ) in 31 patients ( 15 % of the 200 patients ) , a surgical complication in 11 ( 5.5 % ) , preoperative rebleeding in three ( 1.5 % ) , delayed ischemia from vasospasm in one ( 0.5 % ) , and various others in three further patients ( 1.5 % ) . unfavorable outcome occurred in 11 % of patients with preoperative grades i-iii , in 52 % of patients with grade iv , and in 16 of 19 patients with grade v. among the 141 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage but not intracerebral or intraventricular hematoma , 16 made an unfavorable outcome , ie , 11 % versus 56 % among patients with intracerebral hematoma/intraventricular hematoma on preoperative computed tomography scan . the present data seem to speak in favor of early surgery . since half of the patients with intracerebral hematoma and poor outcome had suffered previous warning leaks , it appears to be a continuing challenge to diagnose warning leaks before a massive hemorrhage occurs . 
comparative clinical pharmacology of calcium channel blockers . calcium channel blockers are effective antihypertensive agents , both as initial monotherapy and in combination with other antihypertensive agents . these drugs are also effective in the treatment of chronic , stable angina , variant angina and supraventricular arrhythmias . drugs in this class have different affinities for calcium channels in vascular smooth muscle , cardiac muscle , cardiac sinus and atrioventricular node . they are all useful in hypertension and angina , but only verapamil and diltiazem are also useful in the control of heart rate and supraventricular arrhythmias . nimodipine may control vascular spasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage . calcium channel blockers have also been used in the treatment of migraine headache and raynaud 's phenomenon . 
relation between flow grade after thrombolytic therapy and the effect of angioplasty on left ventricular function : a prospective randomized trial . recent intervention trials during myocardial infarction demonstrated no benefit from emergency angioplasty after thrombolytic therapy when compared with either delayed percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) or a conservative strategy . however , it is possible that subgroups of patients may benefit from early intervention with angioplasty . we performed a prospective randomized trial in patients with a patent infarct-related artery after thrombolytic therapy to determine whether initial flow grade is related to infarct-zone function and whether patients with ineffective reperfusion ( greater than 90 % stenosis or thrombolysis in myocardial infarction [ timi ] flow less than or equal to 2 ) might benefit from immediate ptca . thrombolytic therapy was administered to 170 patients at a mean of 2.1 + / - 0.5 hours after onset of myocardial infarction . a patent infarct-related artery that was suitable for angioplasty was present in 89 patients who comprised the study group ; after randomization , 47 of 50 patients with a patent infarct-related artery had successful emergency ptca 3.8 + / - 1.5 hours after onset of symptoms , and 39 were scheduled for delayed ( 18 to 48-hour ) ptca . reocclusion occurred before the scheduled ( delayed ) procedure in eight patients ( 20.5 % ) , and was symptomatic in six . infarct-region function ( by the centerline method ) measured initially , before discharge , and at 4 months was similar in both groups ; improvement was significant ( p less than 0.001 ) at discharge when compared with initial values with no further change at 4 months . however , patients with ineffective reperfusion had greater hypokinesia initially ( p less than 0.05 ) compared with those with effective reperfusion ( less than or equal to 90 % stenosis plus timi flow 3 ) . moreover , independent of the timing of ptca , improvement was greater before discharge in patients with ineffective reperfusion ( p less than 0.05 ) with a trend also evident at 4 months . importantly , 42 of 51 patients ( 82 % ) with a residual lumen less than 0.4 mm after thrombolysis had some improvement in function at discharge ; this compared with a previous study in which patients with a similar degree of stenosis ( without ptca ) had no improvement . moreover , reocclusion occurred before scheduled ( delayed ) ptca in 37 % of patients with greater than 90 % stenosis compared with only 5 % in those with less than or equal to 90 % stenosis ( p = 0.02 ) . thus flow grade is an important determinant of myocardial function in patients with a patent artery after thrombolytic therapy and is predictive both of improvement in wall motion after ptca and early reocclusion . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
acute complications of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty for total occlusion . the incidence of major complications after percutaneous coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) of a totally occluded artery was assessed retrospectively . a total of 1649 ptca procedures were analyzed . after exclusion of procedures for acute myocardial infarction or total occlusion that resulted from restenosis , 90 patients were selected . forty-four patients ( 49 % ) had stable angina and 46 ( 51 % ) had unstable angina . the estimated duration of occlusion was 87 + / - 78 days in patients with stable angina , as compared with 10 + / - 8 days in patients with unstable angina ( p less than 0.001 ) . abrupt vessel closure during ptca occurred only in patients with unstable angina ( 0 % versus 17 % , p less than 0.05 ) . the major complication rate was 2.5 % in the stable angina group , and 20 % in unstable angina group ( p less than 0.01 ) . this rate was also significantly higher than the complication rate of 8 % observed in 442 procedures that were performed during the same period in patients with the unstable angina and nonocclusive stenosis ( p less than 0.01 ) . patients with unstable angina who undergo ptca of a totally occluded artery represent a subset of high risk for major complications . 
stunned myocardium and myocardial collagen damage : differential effects of single and repeated occlusions . it has been suggested that collagen loss and damage is responsible for the dysfunction seen in stunned myocardium . to test this hypothesis we compared collagen in canine hearts stunned by repeated occlusion with collagen in hearts stunned by a single occlusion . regional contractile function was equally depressed in both groups : segment shortening at 1 hour after reperfusion averaged 37 % + / - 9 % versus 32 % + / - 9 % of preocclusion values in repeated and single occlusion models , respectively . midmyocardial collagen content was not different in either single occlusion ( 10.5 % + / - 0.4 % ) or repeated occlusion models ( 9.5 % + / - 0.7 % ) when compared with nonischemic hearts ( 8.5 + / - 0.8 % ) . collagen damage , which was revealed with polarized light microscopy , was seen in 5 of 6 dogs after repeated occlusion but was not apparent after a single occlusion . thus although both models of stunned myocardium produce similar dysfunction , there was no apparent collagen loss . furthermore , collagen damage was only seen after repeated occlusion . therefore it appears unlikely that collagen damage is a primary mechanism of stunned myocardium . 
coronary sinus occlusion : effect on ischemic left ventricular dysfunction and reactive hyperemia . pressure-controlled intermittent coronary sinus occlusion ( picso ) has been shown to reduce experimental infarct size . to examine the role of picso in limiting the consequences of brief ischemia on left ventricular function , we studied the effect of picso in nine open-chest anesthetized dogs . picso was performed using a pump-inflated , balloon-tipped catheter in the coronary sinus until coronary sinus occlusion pressure reached a plateau ( 10 + / - 3 seconds ) . the balloon was then rapidly deflated ( 2 seconds ) and the cycle was repeated . regional left ventricular function in the ischemic zone was assessed by sonomicrometry . coronary blood flow was measured with a flow probe around the left anterior descending artery ( lad ) proximal to an occluding suture . measurements were obtained at baseline , during a 3-minute lad occlusion , and for 10 minutes of reperfusion . in an additional five dogs , this sequence was repeated during an infusion of adenosine at a dose that abolished reactive hyperemia following lad occlusion . the addition of picso beginning 15 minutes prior to ischemia and continuing throughout lad occlusion and reperfusion did not prevent , reduce , or shorten ischemic left ventricular dysfunction . picso uniformly blunted reactive hyperemia during reperfusion . however , picso also reduced coronary blood flow during maximal vasodilatation achieved by adenosine infusion prior to lad occlusion . therefore , it is likely that picso decreases reactive hyperemia due to mechanical factors arising from venous engorgement rather than by reducing the ischemic stimulus causing vasodilation . 
complete left main coronary artery occlusion : angiographic evaluation of collateral vessel patterns and assessment of hemodynamic correlates . an angiographic study of eight patients with total occlusion of the left main coronary artery identified six patients with chronic occlusion and two with acute complete occlusion . in each of six patients , there were two to six different intercoronary collateral pathways . altogether , a total of 13 specific collateral channels were recognized . one patient had evidence of unique homocollaterals represented by enlarged vasa vasorum , which created a vascular cuff that surrounded a totally obstructed left main artery . the ventricular function and hemodynamic parameters in these patients not only depend on the collateral vessels but may also be affected by the severity of coronary artery disease in the artery that supplies collaterals . 
factors associated with recurrent myocardial infarction within one year after acute myocardial infarction . in a large population of patients ( n = 3666 ) who were discharged from the hospital after acute myocardial infarction and followed up for 1 year , factors associated with recurrent nonfatal ( n = 171 ) or fatal ( n = 74 ) infarction were identified . also , the effects of combining various end points ( recurrent nonfatal or fatal infarction and other cardiac death ) in multivariate analyses , a practice common in many small studies that evaluate the predictive-value of various treatments or special tests , was examined . in univariate analyses , patients with nonfatal recurrent infarction did not differ with respect to age or gender from infarct-free survivors , but they more often had a history of previous myocardial infarction , congestive heart failure , angina pectoris , and diabetes ; more severe pulmonary congestion was present on chest x-ray during the admission , and a non-q wave index infarction was more frequent . patients with either a fatal or nonfatal recurrent infarction had more angina pectoris during follow-up ( 55 % to 60 % ) compared with 27 % in event-free survivors and 31 % in patients who died of other cardiac causes in whom this factor could be assessed before death . in multivariate analyses , historical and clinical prognostic factors were ranked differently for fatal or nonfatal reinfarction and other cardiac causes of death ; angina pectoris at follow-up was highly related to recurrent infarction ( fatal or nonfatal ) , along with a history of diabetes , and a non-q wave index infarction . these factors were not independently related to other causes of cardiac death . 
dilatation of the left ventricular cavity on dipyridamole thallium-201 imaging : a new marker of triple-vessel disease . to investigate the significance and mechanism of dilatation of the left ventricular cavity on dipyridamole thallium-201 imaging , we performed both dipyridamole thallium-201 imaging and dipyridamole radionuclide angiography on 83 patients with known angiograms . the dipyridamole/delayed ratio of the left ventricular dimension from the thallium-201 image was defined as the left ventricular dilatation ratio ( lvdr ) . an lvdr greater than the mean + two standard deviations in patients without coronary artery disease was defined as abnormal . twenty-two of 83 patients showed an abnormal lvdr , and 18 of the 22 patients ( 82 % ) had triple-vessel disease . by defect and washout analysis , the sensitivity and specificity for correctly identifying the patients as having triple-vessel disease was 72 % and 76 % , respectively , whereas lvdr had a sensitivity of 72 % and a specificity of 93 % . when lvdr was used in combination with the defect and washout criteria , sensitivity increased to 84 % without a loss of specificity . in those 22 patients with abnormal lvdrs , end-diastolic volume measured by radionuclide angiography did not change after dipyridamole infusion . dilatation of the left ventricular cavity on dipyridamole thallium-201 imaging reflected relative subendocardial hypoperfusion induced by dipyridamole rather than actual chamber enlargement . the lvdr was moderately sensitive and highly specific for triple-vessel disease and provided complementary information to dipyridamole thallium-201 imaging . 
percutaneous balloon valvotomy for patients with mitral stenosis : initial and follow-up results . percutaneous double balloon mitral valvotomy ( pmv ) was performed in 25 patients with severe mitral stenosis who were followed for at least 6 months after the procedure . there were 22 women and 3 men , with a mean age of 51 + / - 14 years ( range , 27 to 74 ) . hemodynamic and angiographic findings were evaluated before and after pmv and clinical status was assessed at follow-up . there was a significant decrease in mitral gradient following pmv , from 15.4 + / - 5.1 to 5.0 + / - 2.6 mm hg ( p less than .0001 ) ; an increase in cardiac output , from 4.6 + / - 1.1 to 5.2 + / - 1.1 l/min ( p less than .01 ) ; and an increase in calculated mitral valve area , from 0.9 + / - 0.2 to 2.2 + / - 0.6 cm2 ( p less than 0.0001 ) . mitral regurgitation developed or increased in severity in six patients ( 24 % ) . at the time of follow-up ( mean , 12 + / - 5 months ) , three patients required elective mitral valve replacement for symptomatic mitral regurgitation and 91 % ( 20 of 22 ) of the remaining patients had continued improvement in functional class . pmv can safely be performed in properly selected patients with symptomatic mitral stenosis with good immediate and follow-up results . 
value and limitations of doppler pressure half-time in quantifying mitral stenosis : a comparison with micromanometer catheter recordings . the purpose of this study was to compare the doppler and catheterization pressure half-time methods of estimating mitral valve area with valve areas obtained by the gorlin equation in a group of patients with clinically significant mitral stenosis . data were analyzed from 67 consecutive patients who were undergoing continuous-wave doppler examination and catheterization with micromanometer catheters . doppler pressure half-time was calculated as the interval between peak transmitral velocity and velocity divided by the square root of 2 , as measured from the outer border of the spectral envelope . doppler mitral valve area ( mva ) was obtained with the equation : mva = 220 divided by pressure half-time . for catheterization data , the pressure half-time was measured directly from simultaneously recorded left ventricular and left atrial pressure ( 18 patients ) or pulmonary capillary wedge pressure ( 49 patients ) . the catheterization half-time was taken as the time required for the peak pressure gradient to fall to one half of the initial value . calculations of the mitral valve area at catheterization were obtained by the gorlin equation with pressure gradient and cardiac output determinations . mitral valve area as determined by the gorlin equation for all cases ranged from 0.4 to 2.0 ( mean = 1.03 + / - 0.37 ) cm2 . linear regression analysis that compared cardiac catheterization and doppler half-times yielded r = 0.68 . for the subgroup of patients with sinus rhythm , the correlation improved to r = 0.76 . 
effect of severe pulmonary hypertension on the calculation of mitral valve area in patients with mitral stenosis . we studied 50 consecutive patients with mitral valve stenosis ( ms ) by cardiac catheterization and doppler echocardiography to assess whether the presence of severe pulmonary hypertension affected the calculation of valve area by doppler pressure half-time method and by the gorlin formula using pulmonary capillary wedge pressure as an index of left atrial pressure . patients with severe mitral regurgitation were excluded . in patients with pulmonary artery systolic pressure ( pas ) less than 70 mm hg ( n = 33 ) , there was good correlation between the mitral valve area derived from doppler echocardiography and from cardiac catheterization ( r = 0.85 ) . however , in patients with pas greater than or equal to 70 mm hg ( n = 17 ) , this correlation was not as good ( r = 0.57 ) . in these 17 patients , the gorlin formula tended to underestimate the valve orifice area ( mean valve area 0.85 + / - 0.49 and 1.06 + / - 0.46 cm2 by catheterization and by doppler respectively , p = ns ) . direct measurement of the valve area by two-dimensional echocardiography was possible in 12 of the 17 patients and correlated well with doppler values ( r = 0.91 ) . hence in the presence of severe pulmonary hypertension , doppler pressure half-time estimation of mitral valve area is more accurate than is catheterization-derived valve area , using the wedge pressure and the gorlin formula . 
the effect of quinidine and mexiletine on the adaptation of ventricular refractoriness to an increase in rate . the purpose of this study was to determine the effects of quinidine and mexiletine on the adaptation of ventricular refractoriness to a change in heart rate . the ventricular effective refractory period was measured at a basic drive cycle length of 500 msec with basic drive train durations of two beats , eight beats , 20 beats and 3 minutes . the ventricular refractory periods were measured in the baseline state and after oral treatment with quinidine or mexiletine in 20 subjects each . in the baseline state , there was progressive shortening of the ventricular refractory period as the drive train duration increased from two beats to 3 minutes . quinidine prolonged refractoriness by 5 % ( p less than 0.001 ) at each drive train duration . mexiletine did not affect the ventricular effective refractory period at any of the drive train durations . in a control group of 20 subjects , there were no significant differences between two determinations of refractoriness at each basic drive train duration . in conclusion , neither quinidine nor mexiletine affect the adaptation of ventricular refractoriness to an increase in rate . although the ventricular effective refractory period measured with a conventional basic drive train duration of eight beats is often more than 20 msec longer than the actual ventricular effective refractory period measured with a drive train duration of 3 minutes , the effects of quinidine and mexiletine on the conventionally measured ventricular effective refractory period accurately reflect the effects of these drugs on the actual ventricular effective refractory period . 
effect of hyperkalemia on experimental myocardial depression by verapamil . three patients with systemic hypotension and sinus bradycardia that were initially refractory to conventional therapy responded well to intravenous calcium administration . two-dimensional echocardiography revealed immediate reversal of severe left ventricular dysfunction after intravenous administration of calcium in two instances . common factors were hyperkalemia and verapamil therapy . this interaction was examined further by evaluation of contractility , heart rate , and arterial blood pressure in anesthetized dogs . controls ( n = 9 ) received saline infusion , and a second group ( n = 10 ) received saturated potassium chloride ( approximately 0.2 ml/min intravenously ) . in control dogs , administration of verapamil ( 1195 + / - 181 micrograms/kg intravenously ) reduced systemic arterial pressure from 113 + / - 7 mm hg to 74 + / - 5 mm hg , and heart rate from 147 + / - 9 beats/min to 86 + / - 11 beats/min . potassium chloride infusion alone increased blood [ k + ] from 3.4 + / - 0.1 to 6.2 + / - 0.2 meq/l , but was without hemodynamic effects . in hyperkalemic dogs , a significantly lower dose of verapamil ( 428 + / - 42 micrograms/kg intravenously ) reduced systemic arterial pressure from 102 + / - 8 mm hg to 36 + / - 4 mm hg , and heart rate from 150 + / - 5 beats/min to 104 + / - 15 beats/min . myocardial contractile function was examined with right ventricular isometric contractile force and left ventricular segment length changes . in normokalemic and hyperkalemic groups , contractility was decreased by verapamil . effects of verapamil on arterial pressure and contractility could be reversed significantly by administration of calcium , 0.4 meq/kg intravenously . the present results support the theory that the negative hemodynamic effects of verapamil may be exaggerated to a harmful degree by concomitant hyperkalemia . these adverse events may be reversed by calcium administration . 
flosequinan : a vasodilator with positive inotropic activity . flosequinan is an oral arterial and venous vasodilator that is currently under investigation for the treatment of congestive heart failure . the effects of flosequinan on ventricular performance and myocardial contractility were studied in 10 patients with severe congestive heart failure during right and left cardiac catheterization . sixty minutes after a 100 mg oral dose of flosequinan , the peak rate of rise in left ventricular pressure ( dp/dt ) increased from 940 + / - 180 to 1050 + / - 240 mm hg/sec ( p less than 0.05 ) , while left ventricular end-diastolic pressure decreased from 32 + / - 5 to 26 + / - 8 mm hg ( p less than 0.05 ) , and cardiac index increased ( 2.1 + / - 0.4 to 2.3 + / - 0.5 l/min/m2 , ( p less than 0.05 ) . the mean pulmonary artery pressure and vascular resistance decreased from 40 + / - 8 to 33 + / - 12 mm hg ( p less than 0.05 ) and from 330 + / - 240 to 290 + / - 170 dyne-sec/cm5 ( p less than 0.05 ) , respectively . heart rate , mean aortic pressure , right atrial pressure , systemic vascular resistance , and serum norepinephrine levels did not change significantly . the increase in left ventricular peak dp/dt that was concomitant with a decrease in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure , and no change in systemic arterial pressure or sympathetic tone , argue for a direct positive inotropic effect of flosequinan . 
dietary taurine deficiency and dilated cardiomyopathy in the fox . taurine deficiency has been implicated as a potential cause of dilated cardiomyopathy . however , the relationship between taurine and myocardial function is presently unclear . the purpose of this study was to determine whether dilated cardiomyopathy in the fox is associated with dietary taurine deficiency . a total of 68 foxes from farms with a history of death caused by dilated cardiomyopathy and 14 foxes from a farm with no history of dilated cardiomyopathy were studied . dilated cardiomyopathy was diagnosed by echocardiography in 48 % of the foxes from one farm with a positive history and in none of the foxes from the control farm . foxes less than 9 months of age were more commonly affected than older foxes ( p = 0.03 ) . plasma taurine concentrations were significantly less ( p less than 0.01 ) in foxes that had dilated cardiomyopathy ( 26.8 + / - 16.4 nmol/ml ) than in the control foxes ( 99.3 + / - 60.2 nmol/ml ) . a significantly higher ( p less than 0.01 ) incidence of dilated cardiomyopathy was present in foxes with a history of a sibling or offspring that died of dilated cardiomyopathy than in foxes without a family history of cardiac death . in one fox with dilated cardiomyopathy that was tested , the myocardial taurine concentration was lower ( 1.7 mumol/gm wet weight ) than that of control foxes ( 7.3 + / - 1.6 mumol/gm wet weight ) . hepatic cysteinesulfinic acid decarboxylase activity was significantly less ( p less than 0.001 ) in foxes with dilated cardiomyopathy ( 0.97 + / - 0.2 nmol/mm . mg protein ) than in control foxes ( 2.11 + / - 0.07 nmol co2/mm . mg protein ) . 
sports-related and non-sports-related sudden cardiac death in young adults . sports-related sudden cardiac deaths were compared with non-sports-related sudden cardiac death in individuals ( 14 to 40 years old ) who were autopsied from 1981 to 1988 at the maryland medical examiner 's office . thirty-four of 690 total cases of sudden cardiac death were sports-related , which represents 5 % of sudden cardiac death in this age group . causes of death were severe atherosclerosis ( nine ) , hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with asymmetry ( eight ) , coronary artery anomalies ( four ) , idiopathic concentric left ventricular hypertrophy ( three ) , myocarditis ( two ) , arrhythmogenic right ventricle ( one ) , kawasaki disease ( one ) , and unknown ( six ) ; two of the cases with unknown causes had tunnel arteries . exercise-related deaths were more likely due to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ( p = 0.0007 ) compared with 102 age - , sex - , and race-matched controls in the non-exercise group ; there was no difference in the incidence of severe atherosclerosis ( p = 0.4 ) . the mean age of individuals with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with asymmetry was less than that of those with severe atherosclerosis ( 24 vs 32 years , p = 0.03 ) . thus exercise precipitates sudden cardiac death in younger individuals with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . 
beat-to-beat detection of ventricular late potentials with high-resolution electrocardiography . to detect dynamic changes of vlps we developed a low-noise , hr-ecg with a gain of 10 ( 5 ) -10 ( 6 ) x. this system allows the beat-to-beat detection of low-amplitude signals at the bedside in a nonshielded room without any averaging process . analysis was performed in 39 normal subjects ( group a : 27 men , 12 women , mean age , 28 + / - 8 years ) , in 98 patients with coronary artery disease without documented sustained ventricular tachycardia ( group b : 86 men , 12 women , mean age , 59 + / - 10 years ) and in 41 patients coronary artery disease with sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia ( group c : 36 men , 5 women ; mean age 63 + / - 9 years ) . comparison was made with time-domain signal-averaging ( sa-ecg ) in all cases at the same electrode position and with identical band-pass filtering . in group a no vlps were detected ; the total filtered qrs duration was 84 + / - 8 msec ( mean + / - sd ) , and the time interval during which the terminal qrs did not exceed 40 microv ( i-40 ) was less than 30 msec in all cases ( mean , 17 + / - 6 msec ) . in group b , vlps were detected by hr-ecg in 34 of 98 patients ( 35 % ) ; the total qrs duration was 102 + / - 16 msec ( mean + / - sd , p less than 0.01 vs group a ) , and the i-40 was 29 + / - 13 msec ( mean + / - sd , p less than 0.01 vs ( group a ) . in group c , vlps were detected by hr-ecg in 38 of 41 patients ( 93 % ) ; the total qrs duration was 123 + / - 22 msec ( mean + / - sd , p less than 0.01 vs group a and group b ) , and the i-40 was 40 + / - 14 msec ( mean + / - sd , p less than 0.01 vs group a and group b ) . concordant results between hr-ecg and sa-ecg were observed in 91 % of the cases ( 59 positive and 103 negative results ) . late potentials that exhibited dynamic variations were detected by hr-ecg alone in 13 cases , and very low amplitude vlps were detected by sa-ecg alone in three cases . in conclusion , the present study demonstrates the feasibility of body-surface recording of vlps on a beat-to-beat basis , without any averaging process , at the bedside in a nonshielded room . this new approach may allow the study of dynamic changes of vlps during spontaneous ventricular arrhythmias or ischemia . 
is hyperglycemia associated with cardiovascular disease ? the framingham study . the association of nonfasting blood glucose levels with cvd incidence was determined prospectively in 1382 men and 2094 women aged 45 to 84 years participating in the framingham heart study . for this study , all patients were classified in 1970 as diabetic or nondiabetic . every 2 years they were examined , categorized according to causal blood glucose samples obtained at the clinic visit , reclassified for development of cvd and diabetes mellitus , and followed 10 years for cvd . during the follow-up period , 350 men and 369 women developed cvd . age-adjusted cvd rates were positively associated with glucose levels in nondiabetic women who did not develop diabetes during follow-up . no such associations were seen in men . multivariate analyses confirmed the independent association of blood glucose levels with later cvd in nondiabetic women . this study shows that hyperglycemia in the original framingham cohort is an independent risk factor for cvd in nondiabetic women , but not among men . 
risk stratification in survivors of acute myocardial infarction : routine cardiac catheterization and angiography is a reasonable approach in most patients [ editorial ] noninvasive risk assessment in survivors of ami can effectively subdivide patients into groups with differing risk profiles after hospital discharge , but some patients at risk for late death or recurrent ami may be incorrectly identified ; data from cardiac catheterization and angiography provide complementary and generally more powerful prognostic information . many patients may derive particular benefit from early cardiac catheterization and angiography , including : ( 1 ) patients with ami complicated by recurrent myocardial ischemia , congestive heart failure , and/or complex ventricular arrhythmias ; ( 2 ) patients with abnormal or inconclusive results of noninvasive testing or those patients unable to perform an exercise test ; ( 3 ) patients with abnormal left ventricular global systolic function and those with increased left ventricular end-systolic volume ; ( 4 ) " young " patients ( younger than 50 years of age ? ) ; ( 5 ) older patients ( older than 65 to 70 years of age ? ) ; ( 6 ) patients with non-q wave ami ; and ( 7 ) patients who are receiving thrombolytic therapy . performance of early cardiac catheterization and angiography in virtually all survivors of ami , with selective use of appropriate noninvasive tests , may provide a more efficacious means of risk assessment after ami ; if all tests are performed judiciously , the cost of such an approach need not be excessive . a combination of invasive and selected noninvasive tests probably provides optimal information . the risks to the routine performance of diagnostic cardiac catheterization and angiography in all survivors of ami are : ( 1 ) adequate care and attention may not be paid to proper performance of the procedure ( s ) and to detailed and proper analyses of the data ; ( 2 ) the need for additional noninvasive testing in selected patients may be ignored ; and most importantly , ( 3 ) premature or unnecessary revascularization procedures may be performed subsequently . for optimal patient care , the clinician must obtain all necessary data , avoid unnecessary and repetitive tests , know the accuracy of individual tests at his or her own facility , interpret all data in proper context , and then counsel patients objectively about available management strategies . with this approach , all patients who might appropriately benefit from coronary artery revascularization will be correctly identified , and patients who are truly at very low risk ( minimal residual coronary artery disease and preserved left ventricular function particularly if associated with a patent infarct-related artery ) may be similarly identified and managed appropriately with elimination of unnecessary additional testing and pharmacologic therapy . finally , whatever approach to risk stratification one chooses for an individual patient , the importance of and the need to correct and/or ameliorate risk factors for coronary artery disease must be recognized and undertaken . 
role of new antiplatelet agents as adjunctive therapies in thrombolysis . coronary thrombolysis is the treatment of choice for patients with acute q-wave myocardial infarcts who have no contraindications to such therapy . however , the time required for thrombolysis and the possibility of reocclusion of the infarct-related artery remain problematic . herein are described experimental animal studies and clinical evaluations in which attempts have been made to develop adjunctive therapies that , when coupled with available thrombolytic interventions , might shorten the time to thrombolysis and delay or prevent reocclusion . from the studies conducted to date , it is clear that a combined thromboxane synthesis inhibitor and receptor antagonist with a serotonin receptor antagonist and heparin shorten the time to thrombolysis and delay or prevent coronary artery reocclusion in experimental canine models with copper coil-induced coronary artery thrombi . a monoclonal antibody to the platelet glycoprotein iib/iiia receptor coupled with tissue plasminogen activator ( t-pa ) and heparin also shortens the time to thrombolysis and delays or prevents reocclusion in experimental canine models . thrombin inhibitors , including heparin and synthetic inhibitors , given with t-pa and aspirin , appear to shorten the time to thrombolysis and delay or prevent coronary artery reocclusion in experimental canine models . aspirin coupled with intravenous streptokinase reduces mortality in patients with presumed acute myocardial infarction , and a combination of heparin and t-pa results in infarct-artery patency more frequently than t-pa without heparin . data from these studies are encouraging with regard to the possibility of developing effective and relatively safe thrombolytic regimens that shorten the time to thrombolysis and delay or prevent coronary artery reocclusion . 
role of new anticoagulants as adjunctive therapy during thrombolysis . procoagulant activity may persist during coronary thrombolysis and result in either delay in the time to recanalization or recurrent thrombosis . although heparin and aspirin form the mainstay of current therapy , recurrent thrombosis occurs despite adjunctive heparin therapy during thrombolysis . newer agents that inhibit thrombin by antithrombin iii-independent mechanisms , or that inhibit earlier steps in the coagulation cascade , have been shown to be effective in the experimental preparation of coronary thrombolysis . because heparin-antithrombin iii is a relatively inefficient inhibitor of thrombin bound to fibrin , agents such as hirudin or small peptide inhibitors of the thrombin-active site appear to be more effective inhibitors of clot-associated thrombin activity . inhibition of early steps in the coagulation cascade with the inhibitor of tissue factor-factor viia complex , or with activated protein c , also appears to be an effective anticoagulant strategy . in experimental preparations all of these agents have shown superiority in preventing recurrent thrombosis compared with heparin , and in some cases they appear to accelerate the rate of clot lysis . 
adjunctive use of beta-adrenergic blockers , calcium antagonists and other therapies in coronary thrombolysis . the availability of thrombolytic agents for use in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction is an important step in the management of a common , often debilitating , and potentially lethal disorder . however , despite the proven benefits of coronary thrombolysis , the importance of adjunctive treatment modalities is being increasingly recognized . beta-adrenergic blockers , calcium antagonists , nitrates , magnesium , and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors each exert favorable cardiovascular properties that may offer additional benefits . clinical trials combining thrombolytic and adjunctive pharmacologic agents offer hope for further advances in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction . 
heparin as an adjunctive treatment after thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction . the rationale for considering heparin therapy as an adjunct to thrombolytic treatment for patients with acute myocardial infarction is to prevent rethrombosis after successful thrombolysis . the risk of reocclusion is high immediately after thrombolysis because blood flowing through the newly opened coronary artery is exposed to thrombin bound to fibrin in the residual thrombus . clinical studies of patients with venous thrombosis and acute myocardial infarction indicate that there is a relation between the anticoagulant response to heparin and clinical efficacy and that the concept of a therapeutic heparin level is valid . subcutaneous doses of approximately 15,000 u twice a day fail to provide an adequate anticoagulant response at 24 hours in the majority of patients , whereas intravenous administration of a bolus of 5,000 u followed by continuous infusion of 30,000 u per 24 hours produces an adequate anticoagulant response at 24 hours in approximately 80 % of patients . studies of patients with myocardial infarction who received streptokinase showed a significant beneficial effect on mortality when 12,500 u of heparin was administered subcutaneously 2 times per day . in contrast , the single largest study evaluating heparin 12,500 u administered subcutaneously 2 times per day as an adjunct to recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator ( rt-pa ) treatment did not show a beneficial effect on mortality . however , studies using full-dose intravenous heparin therapy demonstrated that heparin improves patency after coronary thrombolysis with rt-pa . 
prognostic importance of delayed q-wave evolution 3 to 24 hours after initiation of thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction . the timing of q-wave evolution and its prognostic significance was studied in 201 patients who received thrombolytic therapy for a first acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) . one hundred forty-one patients ( 70 % ) had evidence of a q-wave ami within 3 hours of the initiation of thrombolytic therapy , 31 ( 16 % ) developed q waves after 3 hours but before hospital discharge , and 29 ( 14 % ) were discharged with a non-q-wave ami . laboratory indicators of myocardial damage and in-hospital morbidity and mortality were greater among patients with q-wave amis than with non-q-wave amis . when these indexes were examined with respect to the timing of q-wave evolution , the prognosis of patients with delayed q-wave development was similar to that of patients with non-q-wave amis . thus , compared to patients with early ( less than or equal to 3 hours ) q-wave evolution , patients with delayed q-wave evolution or with a non-q-wave ami had a smaller creatine kinase peak ( mean 661 to 1,081 vs 1,251 to 1,541 iu ; p = 0.005 ) , better preservation of left ventricular function as measured by radionuclide ventriculography before discharge ( mean + / - standard deviation 54 + / - 11 % vs 47 + / - 13 % ; p less than 0.01 ) , and a lower incidence of congestive heart failure at discharge ( 3 vs 15 % ; p = 0.02 ) . in-hospital mortality was lower among patients with delayed q-wave evolution or with a non-q-wave ami ( 5 of 141 vs 0 of 60 ; difference not significant ) . 
regional cardiac adrenergic function using i-123 meta-iodobenzylguanidine tomographic imaging after acute myocardial infarction . the effect of acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) on regional cardiac adrenergic function was studied in 27 patients mean + / - standard deviation 10 + / - 4 days after ami . regional adrenergic function was evaluated noninvasively with i-123 meta-iodobenzylguanidine ( mibg ) using a dedicated 3-detector tomograph . four hours after its administration , there was reduced mibg uptake in the region of infarction , 0.38 + / - 0.31 counts/pixel/mci x 103 compared with 0.60 + / - 0.30 counts/pixel/mci x 103 and 0.92 + / - 0.35 counts/pixel/mci x 103 in the zones bordering and distant from the infarct area , respectively , p less than 0.001 . in all patients , the area of reduced mibg uptake after 4 hours was more extensive that the associated thallium-201 perfusion defect with defect scores of 52 + / - 22 and 23 + / - 18 % , respectively , p less than 0.001 . after anterior wall ami , the 4-hour mibg defect score was 70 + / - 13 % and the degree of mismatch between myocardial perfusion and mibg uptake was 30 + / - 9 % compared with 39 + / - 17 and 21 + / - 17 % after inferior ami , p less than 0.001 and p = 0.016 , respectively . the 4-hour mibg defect score correlated inversely with the predischarge left ventricular ejection fraction , r = -0.73 , p less than 0.001 . patients with ventricular arrhythmia of greater than or equal to 1 ventricular premature complexes per hour , paired ventricular premature complexes or ventricular tachycardia detected during the late hospital phase had higher 4-hour mibg defect scores , 62.5 + / - 15.0 % , than patients with no detectable complex ventricular ectopic activity and a ventricular premature complex frequency of less than 1 per hour , 44.6 + / - 23.4 % , p = 0.036 . 
insensitivity of noninvasive tests to detect coronary artery vasculopathy after heart transplant . obstructive coronary artery vasculopathy can be a major problem after cardiac transplant . the use of noninvasive tests to detect coronary artery vasculopathy was studied in 73 consecutive patients after heart transplant . angiographically or autopsy-proved coronary artery disease was noted in 19 consecutive patients ( 26 % ) followed prospectively for 2.5 + / - 1.3 years ( mean + / - standard deviation ) . patients underwent yearly surveillance echocardiographic , rest/exercise-gated wall motion , oral dipyridamole thallium , ambulatory electrocardiographic monitor and angiographic studies . positive test results were defined by decrease in ejection fraction , wall motion abnormality , failure to increase ejection fraction , lack of systolic blood pressure increase , and ischemic st changes at maximal exercise ( or on ambulatory monitor ) . wall motion abnormalities and depressed ejection fraction on echocardiography were also abnormal studies as were fixed or reversible perfusion defects on thallium scan . angiograms were considered positive when 50 % luminal narrowing was observed and autopsy coronary artery vasculopathy was defined as cross-sectional coronary obstruction greater than or equal to 70 % . no procedure that was examined proved to be a sensitive noninvasive detector of heart transplant coronary artery vasculopathy . all except ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring had positive predictive values less than 50 % . interestingly , of the techniques evaluated , echocardiography was most sensitive ( 53 % ) . the poor predictive ability of noninvasive testing in this population may be due to the fact that these tests are designed to detect effects of ischemia rather than coronary obstruction alone . use of these particular noninvasive modalities routinely after heart transplant to detect coronary artery vasculopathy should be reconsidered because of their low sensitivity and predictive value when used as a surveillance screen . 
comparative effects of overweight on cardiovascular risk in younger versus older men . the relation of age and body mass index ( bmi ) to atherosclerosis risk factors was examined in 357 men . older ( greater than or equal to 45 years ) men had higher ( p less than 0.01 ) systolic and diastolic blood pressures , fasting cholesterol and glucose , and 1-hour glucose and insulin levels . fasting insulin and triglyceride levels were not significantly different between the 2 age groups . although older men ( n = 170 ) had greater values for several risk factors , overweight ( bmi greater than 25.5 kg/m2 ) increased risk factors more in men younger than 45 years ( n = 187 ) . in younger men , those with higher bmis had a greater prevalence , respectively , of blood pressure greater than 140/90 mm hg ( 35.2 vs 11.2 % , p less than 0.0001 ) , cholesterol greater than 200 mg/dl ( 53.5 vs 29.3 % , p less than 0.001 ) , fasting triglycerides greater than 150 mg/dl ( 38.0 vs 10.3 % , p less than 0.0001 ) , 1-hour glucose greater than 160 mg/dl ( 15.5 vs 5.2 % , p less than 0.05 ) , fasting insulin greater than 11 microu/ml ( 28.2 vs 5.2 % , p less than 0.0001 ) , and 1-hour insulin greater than 110 microu/ml ( 28.2 vs 9.5 % , p less than 0.001 ) . in contrast , among older men , the prevalence of elevated blood pressure , cholesterol , triglycerides and glucose values was not significantly greater in the subgroup with high bmi . however , elevations of fasting ( 19.6 vs 6.4 % , p less than 0.05 ) and 1-hour insulin ( 29.3 vs 11.5 % , p less than 0.01 ) values were more common among older men with higher bmis . 
immediate and short-term results of a 1988-1989 coronary angioplasty registry . to determine the relevance of recent refinements in angioplasty technology to our particular practice , the records of 507 consecutive patients undergoing a first percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) at our center between october 1988 and may 1989 were reviewed . at the time of ptca , 41 % of these patients had class iv angina and 44 % were identified as having multivessel disease . dilatation was attempted in 734 lesions ( mean 1.5 per patient ) , of which 95 ( 13 % ) were chronic total occlusions . overall , 69 % of the 734 lesions were judged anatomically complex , and , in dilating these lesions , a rail-type device was used almost exclusively . successful dilatation was achieved in 659 of the 734 ( 90 % ) attempted lesions . there were low incidences of the major complications of death ( 0.4 % ) , myocardial infarction ( 1.8 % ) and emergency bypass surgery ( 1.8 % ) . acute rethrombosis occurred in 54 patients ( 11 % ) . in these patients , initial strategy of repeat dilatation was successful in 38 of 47 patients ( 81 % ) . overall , primary clinical success at ptca was achieved in 480 patients ( 95 % ) . at a mean follow-up of 7.5 + / - 1.5 months in 497 of the study patients , the event-free rate ( freedom from cardiac death , myocardial infarction , repeat ptca or coronary bypass surgery or recurrence of severe [ class iii to iv ] angina ) was 71 % . in conclusion , despite the often complex coronary disease in patients currently presenting to our center , a high initial success rate and acceptable short-term outcome of ptca was achieved . 
sustained reduction in valvular regurgitation and atrial volumes with tailored vasodilator therapy in advanced congestive heart failure secondary to dilated ( ischemic or idiopathic ) cardiomyopathy . afterload reduction therapy can acutely improve hemodynamic function in patients with advanced heart failure ; however , it is unknown if initial reductions in mitral and tricuspid regurgitation and atrial volumes can be sustained with oral therapy . atrial volumes and atrioventricular valve regurgitation were measured using 2-dimensional and doppler echocardiography with color-flow imaging in 14 patients with dilated heart failure ( ejection fraction 17 + / - 4 % ) before and after 3 + / - 1 days of intensive vasodilator and diuretic therapy tailored to hemodynamic goals . echocardiography was repeated again after 6 + / - 2 months on oral vasodilators and a flexible diuretic regimen . acute therapy reduced systemic vascular resistance from 1,760 + / - 460 to 1,010 + / - 310 dynes.s.cm-5 , pulmonary artery wedge pressure from 30 + / - 5 to 17 + / - 4 mm hg , and right atrial pressure from 13 + / - 5 to 7 + / - 3 mm hg , and led to a 61 % increase in stroke volume ( from 36 + / - 10 to 58 + / - 14 ml ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . mitral and tricuspid regurgitation , determined by color-flow fraction , initially decreased from 0.34 + / - 0.17 to 0.20 + / - 0.20 and from 0.33 + / - 0.15 to 0.13 + / - 0.13 , respectively ( p less than 0.001 ) . this reduction was sustained at 6 months . significant decreases occurred with acute therapy , with further reductions at 6 months in both mean left atrial volume ( from 100 + / - 25 to 80 + / - 19 to 65 + / - 15 cm3 ) and right atrial volume ( from 85 + / - 23 to 64 + / - 23 to 52 + / - 14 cm3 ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . 
frequency and severity of mitral regurgitation one year after balloon mitral valvuloplasty . mitral regurgitation ( mr ) was evaluated by doppler echocardiography in 59 patients with mitral stenosis before , immediately after and 1 year after balloon mitral valvuloplasty ( bmv ) . the severity of mr was graded on a scale from 1 + to 4 + . echocardiographic and hemodynamic variables were analyzed to study the potential factor ( s ) that might predict the long-term persistence of mr. echocardiographic variables were mitral valve thickness and motion , subvalvular change , left atrial dimension , commissural calcification and effective balloon/mitral anular diameters . hemodynamic variables were mitral pressure gradient , pulmonary arterial pressure , ejection fraction , mitral valve area index , age , gender and cardiac rhythm . mitral valve area index increased from 0.9 + / - 0.5 to 1.5 + / - 0.8 cm2/m2 immediately after bmw , and to 1.4 + / - 0.3 cm2/m2 at 1 year follow-up ( p less than 0.01 ) . immediately after bmv , mr grading did not change in 30 patients ( 51 % ) , increased by 1 + in 23 patients ( 39 % ) , by 2 + in 2 patients ( 3.3 % ) and by 3 + in 2 patients ( 3.3 % ) , and decreased by 1 + in 2 others . at 1-year follow-up , only 1 patient with severe mr required valve replacement . fifty-one patients ( 88 % ) had no change in the extent of mr ( less than or equal to 1 + ) and 6 patients ( 10 % ) had a 1-grade decrease in their mr ; only 1 patient had a 1-grade increase in mr. no clinical or hemodynamic variables or morphologic characteristics of the mitral valve could predict the development of significant mr after bmv . it is concluded that an increment in mr severity less than or equal to 2 + is frequently seen after bmv . 
hemodynamic and electrophysiologic evaluation of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy surviving cardiac arrest . hemodynamic and electrophysiologic studies were performed in 30 survivors of sudden cardiac arrest with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ( hc ) to determine responsible factors . electrophysiologic abnormalities alone were present in 27 patients ( 90 % ) : sinus node dysfunction in 14 ( 47 % ) , delayed atrio-ventricular nodal conduction in 1 ( 3 % ) , abnormal his-purkinje conduction in 7 ( 23 % ) , an inducible atrial tachycardia in 7 ( 23 % ) , and inducible sustained ventricular arrhythmia in 21 ( 70 % ) . sustained ventricular arrhythmia was polymorphic ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) in 18 patients ( 86 % ) , monomorphic vt in 2 patients ( 7 % ) and ventricular fibrillation in 1 patient ( 3 % ) . in 1 patient the arrhythmia recorded during an episode of cardiac arrest and induced at electrophysiologic study was polymorphic vt . vt was induced with less than or equal to 2 extra-stimuli in only 1 patient ( 3 % ) but with less than or equal to 3 extra-stimuli in 20 patients ( 97 % ) . potential causes of sudden cardiac arrest were found in all patients and were multiple in 13 patients ( 43 % ) . these were ( 1 ) ventricular electrical instability in 21 patients ( 70 % ) , ( 2 ) severe left ventricular outflow tract obstruction in 8 patients ( 27 % ) , ( 3 ) bradycardia in 5 patients ( 17 % ) , ( 4 ) myocardial ischemia associated with hypotension in 5 patients ( 17 % ) , and ( 5 ) atrial tachycardia resulting in hypotension in 4 patients ( 13 % ) . of the 21 patients with inducible sustained ventricular arrhythmia , 17 received an implantable defibrillator device and 4 were treated with antiarrhythmic drugs . seven patients underwent left ventricular septal myectomy . 
uses and limitations of transthoracic echocardiography in the assessment of atrial septal defect in the adult . two-dimensional and color doppler echocardiography accurately detected the presence of an atrial septal defect ( asd ) in 47 of 50 adults ( mean age 40 years ) confirmed by surgery or cardiac catheterization , or both . it correctly categorized all patients with ostium secundum and ostium primum asd but misdiagnosed 3 of 5 patients with surgically proven sinus venosus asd . the shunt flow volume across the asd was calculated with the standard doppler equation , and assuming the asd to be circular correlated with shunt flow volume obtained by cardiac catheterization ( r = 0.74 ) . the maximum width of the color flow signals moving across the asd was taken as its diameter . mean flow velocity was determined either by placing a pulsed doppler sample volume parallel to the flow across the asd as visualized by color doppler or by color m-mode examination , which allowed determination of flow velocities using a previously validated method that incorporates a computer analysis of pixel color intensity . the pulmonary to systemic blood flow ratio obtained by color-guided conventional doppler interrogation of the left and right ventricular outflow tracts correlated poorly with cardiac catheterization results ( r = 0.38 ) . in patients with associated tricuspid regurgitation , the peak systolic pulmonary artery pressure obtained by color doppler-guided continuous-wave doppler correlated well with that obtained at cardiac catheterization ( r = 0.89 ) . the maximum color doppler jet width of the flow across the asd poorly correlated with asd size estimated at surgery ( r = 0.50 ) . 
congestive heart failure , coronary events and atherothrombotic brain infarction in elderly blacks and whites with systemic hypertension and with and without echocardiographic and electrocardiographic evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy . hypertension was present in 50 % of 196 blacks and in 36 % of 382 whites ( p less than 0.001 ) . a prospective study of 84 elderly blacks ( 70 % women ) and 326 elderly whites ( 73 % women ) with hypertension correlated echocardiographic and electrocardiographic left ventricular ( lv ) hypertrophy with incidences of congestive heart failure ( chf ) , coronary events and atherothrombotic brain infarction ( abi ) . echocardiographic lv hypertrophy ( p less than 0.02 ) and concentric lv hypertrophy ( p less than 0.001 ) were more prevalent in hypertensive blacks than in hypertensive whites . hypertensive blacks were younger ( 78 + / - 9 years ) than hypertensive whites ( 82 + / - 7 years ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . other coronary risk factors were similar , except for higher serum triglycerides in whites than in blacks ( p less than 0.02 ) . follow-up was 37 + / - 18 months in blacks and 43 + / - 18 months in whites ( p less than 0.01 ) . incidences of chf and coronary events were not significantly different in blacks and whites . abi incidence was 38 % in blacks and 21 % in whites ( p less than 0.005 ) . multiple logistic regression analysis showed that prior chf ( p = 0.000 ) , concentric lv hypertrophy ( p = 0.018 ) and echocardiographic lv hypertrophy ( p = 0.022 ) were independent risk factors for chf . echocardiographic lv hypertrophy ( p = 0.001 ) , serum total cholesterol ( p = 0.002 ) , concentric lv hypertrophy ( p = 0.005 ) and prior coronary artery disease ( p = 0.042 ) were independent risk factors for coronary events . prior abi ( p = 0.001 ) , echocardiographic lv hypertrophy ( p = 0.001 ) and electrocardiographic lv hypertrophy ( p = 0.034 ) were independent risk factors for abi . 
evaluation of the pharmacokinetics and electrocardiographic effects of intravenous verapamil with intravenous calcium chloride pretreatment in normal subjects . to evaluate the effects of calcium pretreatment on the disposition and electrocardiographic effects of verapamil , 8 healthy male volunteers received treatment in each of 3 phases in a randomized , double-blind , crossover manner . phase i denoted 10 ml of 0.9 % intravenous sodium chloride followed by 10 mg of intravenous verapamil ; phase ii denoted 10 ml of 10 % intravenous calcium chloride followed by 4 ml of 0.9 % intravenous sodium chloride ; and phase iii denoted 10 ml of 10 % intravenous calcium chloride followed by 10 mg of intravenous verapamil . blood samples for the determination of verapamil concentrations were drawn at 5 , 10 , 15 , 20 , 30 , 45 , 60 and 90 minutes , and at 2 , 4 , 6 , 10 and 24 hours . blood pressure , heart rate and pr intervals were also measured at these times . pretreatment of verapamil with intravenous calcium did not alter the disposition of intravenous verapamil . blood pressure was not significantly altered in any treatment phase , although calcium tended to increase mean arterial pressure and verapamil abolished this effect . calcium had no significant affect on verapamil-induced pr prolongation ( maximum percent change in pr interval : phase i = 19 + / - 11 % , phase iii = 18 + / - 7 % ; time to maximal prolongation : phase i = 0.38 + / - 0.21 hours , phase iii = 0.37 + / - 0.26 hours ; and area under the percent change in pr vs time curve : phase i = 15.5 + / - 10 , phase iii = 21 + / - 9 ) . verapamil caused a reflex increase in heart rate of similar magnitude in both phases i and iii ( 24 + / - 10 % and 21 + / - 7 % , respectively ) . 
cardiovascular risk factor levels in ethnic hawaiians . we report a cardiovascular risk factor survey of " native " hawaiians 20-59 years old ( 70 percent , or 257 ) , living on the hawaiian homestead lands on the island of molokai , hawaii . more than 60 percent of both sexes were overweight . among males , 42 percent were smokers . the percent of the population with systolic blood pressure greater than 140 mm hg or a diastolic pressure greater than 90 mm hg or taking hypertensive medications was 14 percent of those ages 20-39 and 36 percent of those ages 40-59 . the percent with serum cholesterol greater than or equal to 6.2 mmol/l ranged from 8 percent of those 20-29 years old to 46 percent in those 50-59 years old . two percent of those ages 20-29 had a history of diabetes , or 2 + or greater glycosuria by dipstick , as did 23 percent of those ages 50-59 . the majority of the known diabetics exhibited glycosuria and elevated glycohemoglobin levels , indicating poor control . hypertension , although usually known to the participant , was frequently uncontrolled . from these data , it appears that among this group of hawaiians major risk factors for cardiovascular disease were frequent , while at the same time the levels of awareness and/or control for most of these factors were low . 
are people more health conscious ? a longitudinal study of one community . secular changes in cardiovascular health awareness , knowledge and behavior were observed in four biennial cross-sectional surveys and a cohort survey in a new england community . these changes are not related to more health promotion activities in the social milieu of respondents , but are more likely due to national mass media health campaigns , the effects of which may influence outcomes of community-based cardiovascular disease prevention studies . 
vascular lesions of the intestines . this article reviews the pathology , pathophysiology , diagnosis , and treatment of vascular lesions of the intestine as a cause of gastrointestinal bleeding . in addition , a modified system for classifying such lesions , based on the author 's personal experience with such lesions , is presented . 
pregnancy associated with gorlin 's syndrome . a pregnant woman with gorlin 's syndrome presented for the removal of malignant ovarian tumours . the main problem encountered by the anaesthetists was an unexpected increase in arterial blood pressure . this was most probably associated with surgical manipulation of the ovaries with an increase in prorenin/renin production . 
intraoperative detection of patent foramen ovale by transesophageal echocardiography . this study reports the intraoperative use of contrast and doppler echocardiography techniques to diagnose patent foramen ovale ( pfo ) . fifty patients without known atrial septal defects undergoing elective cardiovascular surgery were studied . a 5-mhz esophageal echocardiographic probe was used to image the fossa ovalis ( fo ) and 10 ml agitated saline was injected into the right atrium during apnea . echocardiographic contrast was then injected during end-inspiration at 20-cmh2o airway pressure . when opacification of the right atrium was complete , the airway pressure was released . during these maneuvers , color and pulsed-wave doppler interrogation of the atrial septum were also performed . right-to-left passage of saline contrast across the interatrial septum was seen in 11 of 50 patients ( 22 % ) . doppler echocardiography demonstrated a pfo in 2 patients without contrast evidence of shunting . thus , the combination of contrast and doppler echocardiography identified a 26 % ( 13 of 50 ) prevalence of pfo , approximating the previously reported autopsy rate of 25 % . these contrast and doppler techniques may be useful in detecting patients at risk for paradoxical emboli and in identifying candidates for closure of the pfo . 
maternal and fetal effects of labetalol in pregnant ewes . labetalol has been advocated to rapidly decrease blood pressure in preeclamptic women and to blunt the hemodynamic response to tracheal intubation . to assess labetalol 's actions in a setting of uterine vasoconstriction , saline or labetalol ( 1 mg/kg ) was infused into maternal venous catheters in 12 pregnant ewes receiving continuous maternal intravenous infusions of norepinephrine . norepinephrine increased maternal mean arterial pressure ( map ) to 120 + / - 4 % of control and decreased uterine blood flow to 45 + / - 6 % of control . labetalol , but not saline , altered these parameters : it decreased map to 101 + / - 3 % and increased uterine blood flow to 70 + / - 7 % of prenorepinephrine values . in the second protocol , to assess the degree of labetalol-induced fetal adrenergic blockade , 7 pregnant ewes received , on separate days , saline or labetalol ( 0.3 , 1.0 , 3.0 mg/kg ) via a maternal venous catheter . maternally administered labetalol produced minor ( less than 12 % ) decreases in maternal and fetal map , without significantly altering heart rate ( hr ) . at each labetalol dose , the degree of alpha - and beta-adrenergic blockade , determined by phenylephrine and isoproterenol challenge , was greater in the ewe than in the fetus . in the near-term pregnant ewe , intravenous ( iv ) bolus administration of labetalol ameliorated the effects of increased circulating norepinephrine on maternal map , uterine blood flow , and fetal ph and arterial o2 tension ( pao2 ) , and produced less adrenergic blockade in the fetus than in the mother . 
active drainage of cardiac lymph in relation to reduction in size of myocardial infarction : an experimental study . active drainage of cardiac lymph using hyaluronidase was attempted in dogs . the results were satisfactory and the ischemic myocardium was salvaged . the infarct risk area ( i/r ) ratio decreased after drainage . regional myocardial ischemia and infarction were provided by means of ligature of the left coronary artery for 120 and 240 minutes respectively . cardiac lymph was collected by conventional procedures . enzymes released from the myocardium increased significantly in the cardiac lymph . the volume of cardiac lymph gradually increased after ligature of the coronary artery . administration of hyaluronidase further increased the cardiac lymph flow and significantly decreased the i/r ratio as determined by triphenyl tetrazolium chloride ( ttc ) and methylene blue staining . drainage of the cardiac lymph salvaged the ischemic myocardium . reduction of interstitial edema and augmentation of cardiac lymph flow with the hyaluronidase prevented the development of the infarction . this is the first documentation of the effect of active drainage of cardiac lymph on the development of infarction through observation of the i/r ratio . 
coronary artery calcification detected by ct : clinical significance and angiographic correlates . cardiac computed tomography ( ct ) to detect coronary calcification was performed on 161 patients undergoing coronary angiography for proven or suspected coronary artery disease . among 108 patients in whom coronary calcifications was identified , 90 % had significant coronary stenosis angiographically ( greater than 75 % stenosis ) , and 80 % of 121 patients with significant coronary stenosis showed calcification by ct . the relationship between the calcification site and the significance in stenosis of each vessel was determined . calcification was present in 133 arteries among 205 stenotic coronary arteries ( sensitivity = 65 % ) as compared with 59 of 439 entire arteries with normal coronary angiograms ( specificity = 87 % ) . in the younger age group the sensitivity of calcification for stenosis of each coronary artery was lower and the specificity and predictive value were generally higher than those in the elderly group . these results demonstrate that ct is a valuable procedure for detecting coronary arterial disease , since this examination is easy to conduct , noninvasive , and widely applicable for screening a large population . 
therapy of ischemic cardiomyopathy with pentoxifylline . abnormal blood rheology is a known characteristics of coronary artery disease . the authors evaluated the effects of pentoxifylline on the exercise capacity ejection fraction and symptoms of 9 patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy . all patients had signs and symptoms of left ventricular dysfunction . all had at least two major vessels obstructed as determined by coronary angiography . pentoxifylline 400 mg three times daily was administered for twelve weeks . seven of 9 patients responded with increases in ejection fraction and exercise tolerance . exercise tolerance correlated with improvement or lack of improvement in ejection fraction . for all patients at twelve weeks post-therapy mean ejection fraction increased 9.8 % over baseline ( p = .07 ) , total treadmill time increased 15 % ( p = .27 ) , and mean double product increased 13 % ( p = .03 ) . anginal symptoms were significantly improved over baseline at twelve weeks of therapy ( p greater than .001 ) , as well as dyspnea on exertion ( p = .03 ) . pentoxifylline was well tolerated . pentoxifylline may benefit ischemic cardiomyopathy by improving coronary perfusion owing to favorable alterations in hemorheologic properties . 
the effect of dopexamine hcl upon collateral perfusion of the acutely ischemic myocardium in anesthetized dogs . the effects of low-dose ( 10 ( -9 ) and 3 x 10 ( -9 ) mole/kg/min ) infusions of dopexamine hcl , a new synthetic catecholamine with beta 2-adrenergic and da1-dopaminergic agonostic actions , was tested in anesthetized dogs , with and without acute ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery . the infusions caused diastolic arterial blood pressure to fall by 12 + / - 4 and 23 + / - 5 mmhg , respectively . microsphere-estimated collateral blood flow to the ischemic myocardium did not change significantly during the drug infusions . the findings suggest that low doses of dopexamine hcl do not cause coronary " steal " from acutely ischemic myocardium . 
right-to-left shunting through a patent foramen ovale caused by pulmonary hypertension associated with rheumatoid arthritis and sjogren 's syndrome : a case report . this case report presents a fifty-four-year-old woman with right-to-left shunt in the atrium . it seemed clinically at first that the shunt was due to atrial septal defect . however , she also had pulmonary disease associated with rheumatoid arthritis and sjogren 's syndrome . at autopsy atrial septal defect was not evident , but a patent foramen ovale and pulmonary artery disease were observed . this case suggests that pulmonary hypertension secondary to rheumatoid arthritis and sjogren 's syndrome could lead to right-to-left shunting through a patent foramen ovale . 
aortic dissection with a fistulous communication into the right atrium : a case report . a case of aortic dissection ( type 1 , de bakey ) with a rent into the right atrium ( ra ) , diagnosed by echocardiography ( echo ) and confirmed by aortography , is reported . the patient presented with cardiac failure and a continuous murmur in the right second and third intercostal spaces . the patient has survived for two years with medial treatment . 
complement activation is a secondary rather than a causative factor in rabbit pulmonary artery ischemia/reperfusion injury . we have previously demonstrated that reperfusion of a rabbit lung in vivo after 24 h of unilateral pulmonary artery occlusion results in edema , transient leukopenia , and intravascular leukocyte aggregation . we hypothesized that complement was activated by reperfusion and that this in turn contributed to lung injury . in the preliminary phase of the study , we found that ischemia followed by reperfusion resulted in a drop in c3 to 15 + / - 10 % ( mean + / - sem ) of the prereperfusion value as compared with no change in a group of control animals that had undergone an identical thoracotomy but without pulmonary artery occlusion and reperfusion ( p less than 0.05 ) . we then studied three groups of animals to determine if complement depletion with cobra venom factor ( cvf ) prior to ischemia and reperfusion would prevent the injury . rabbits treated with cvf but without occlusion and reperfusion did not develop significant lung edema , with left and right lung wet/dry ratios of 5.32 + / - 0.11 and 5.26 + / - 0.12 , respectively . for rabbits that were not treated with cvf but underwent ischemia and reperfusion , the comparable numbers were 6.15 + / - 0.36 and 5.19 + / - 0.32 ( p less than 0.05 for right versus left ) . for cvf-treated rabbits that underwent ischemia and reperfusion , the right/left difference persisted ( 6.77 + / - 0.48 versus 5.35 + / - 0.14 , p less than 0.01 ) . immunocytochemistry documented c3 deposition in non-cvf rabbits that underwent ischemia and reperfusion but not in cvf-treated rabbits . we conclude that ischemia/reperfusion of the lung results in complement activation , but it is not a complement-dependent injury . 
relation between three-dimensional geometry of the inflow tract to the orifice and the area , shape , and velocity of regurgitant color doppler jets : an in vitro study . the relation between three-dimensional geometry of the inflow tract to the orifice and the area , shape , and velocity of regurgitant jets was studied in a pulsatile in vitro color doppler flow model . a 2.5 mhz transducer connected to a diagnostic ultrasound machine was placed in a water tank facing pulsatile jets ( duration , 0.5 second ) obtained by a calibrated injector . flow rate from 6 to 52 ml/sec were tested through a 5 mm diameter circular orifice . four different three-dimensional inflow tract geometries were compared : ( a ) sharp-edged , ( b ) venturi ( funnel ) , ( c ) converging conical , and ( d ) diverging conical . mean velocities of jets were measured by continuous-wave doppler echocardiography . driving pressures were also measured by means of a fluid-filled catheter . two observers independently digitized contours of maximal color jet areas by computer system from two separate sets of experiments . results are given as the mean values of the four measurements for each parameter . jet areas were correlated to flow rate , with no difference from a through d. the shape ( eccentricity ) of jets was different between a and b ( p less than 0.05 ) , between b and d ( p less than 0.01 ) , and between c and d ( p less than 0.01 ) . the shape of jets was correlated with flow rate , continuous-wave velocity , and pressure gradient in b , c , and d but not in a. measured pressure gradients and estimated gradients by continuous-wave doppler echocardiography were similarly correlated from a through d. 
the reproducibility of intravascular ultrasound imaging in vitro . to determine which factors may affect the image quality when an intravascular ultrasound catheter is used in vivo , the influence of blood , temperature change , and contrast media were evaluated . in addition , to confirm the reproducibility of intravascular ultrasound imaging to measure cross-sectional lumen area , intraobserver and interobserver variability were determined . the findings indicated that ultrasound images in blood are mildly attenuated , that changes from room temperature to body temperature do not have a significant impact on the image quality , that contrast media attenuates the image intensity in a dose-dependent manner , and that the intravascular ultrasound imaging catheter provides a reproducible method for measuring arterial lumen area with excellent intraobserver and interobserver correlation . 
the natural history of left ventricular spontaneous contrast . spontaneous contrast in the left ventricle is an unusual entity . we retrospectively studied 16 patients who were found to have spontaneous contrast present on two-dimensional echocardiograms , specifically noting their clinical characteristics , the reproducibility of this phenomenon , the presence of thrombi and embolic events , and prognostic implications . diagnoses included ischemic heart disease in nine patients , dilated cardiomyopathy in six patients , and hypertensive cardiomyopathy in one patient . the mean ejection fraction was 17.6 % . there were six thromboembolic events in four patients . the spontaneous contrast was reproducible for periods of time up to 39 months . patients who had improvement in their left ventricular dysfunction or who underwent aneurysmectomy had disappearance of the spontaneous contrast . those patients who had spontaneous contrast reproduced on subsequent echocardiograms did not seem to have a worse prognosis than patients with similarly depressed ventricular function , but a larger study is necessary to verify this . 
role of ultrasonic tissue characterization to distinguish reversible from irreversible myocardial injury . tissue characterization reflects structural and functional integrity of tissues . inasmuch as reversible ischemia causes no structural damage and irreversible ischemia results in persistent structural myocardial damage , we postulated that ultrasonic tissue characterization can distinguish the two types of injuries . anesthetized open chest dogs underwent 15 minutes ( group 1 , n = 5 ) and 90 minutes ( group 2 , n = 8 ) of acute total occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery , followed by 3 hours of reperfusion . myocardial ischemia-infarction was confirmed with segment shortening , electronmicroscopic examination , and triphenyl tetrazolium chloride staining . integrated backscatter rayleigh 5 ( ibr5 ) , a measure of ultrasonic backscatter , and fourier coefficient of amplitude modulation ( fam ) , an index of cardiac cycle dependent variation in backscatter , were measured at baseline , during ischemia , and after reperfusion . group 1 ( reversible ischemia ) showed an increase in ibr5 from -48 + / - 1.2 db at control to -45 + / - 1.0 db ( p less than 0.01 ) during ischemia , which returned to baseline after reperfusion ( -47 + / - 1.3 db ) . fam was blunted during ischemia ( 6.2 + / - 1.0 db during control versus 1.2 + / - 1.0 db during ischemia , p less than 0.01 ) and recovered completely during reperfusion . segment shortening was abolished during ischemia ( 18 % + / - 3 % during control versus -12 % + / - 5 % during ischemia , p less than 0.01 ) and recovered partially during reperfusion ( 4 % + / - 5 % ) . the group 2 animals with irreversible myocardial injury showed an increase in ibr5 , from -49 + / - 1.2 db during control to -44 + / - 1.0 db during ischemia ( p less than 0.01 ) and paradoxical bulging of the ischemic region ( 17 % + / - 3 % to -7 % + / - 3 % , p less than 0.01 ) during ischemia . 
quantitative echocardiographic analysis of global and regional left ventricular function : a problem revisited . we recorded two-dimensional echocardiograms simultaneously with the respiration measurements of 20 normal subjects and 20 patients with anterior myocardial infarction . the apical long-axis and four-chamber views were quantitatively analyzed . measurement variability of global ejection fraction and regional ejection fraction of 100 regions was calculated during inspiration and at end-expiration for two observers . to minimize variability , the endocardial contour was redefined and traced with an improved computer-assisted tracing system . variability ( absolute mean difference ) between two beats at end-expiration was significantly less than during inspiration ( p less than 0.05 ) : for ejection fraction the variability at end-expiration was 3.4 % and the variability during inspiration was 6.4 % ( mean , 54 % ; sd , 7 % ) ; for regional ejection fraction the variability at end-expiration was 11.8 % and the variability during inspiration was 21.5 % ( mean , 56 % ; sd , 15 % ) . intraobserver and interobserver variability values of one beat at end-expiration for ejection fraction were 3.1 % and 3.8 % , respectively , and 9.5 % and 12.8 % , respectively , for regional ejection fraction . variability in patients with myocardial infarction was comparable . this method of recording respiration and analyzing left ventricular function at end-expiration , with a new contour definition and tracing system , provides a measurement variability that is considerably less than that reported in previous echocardiographic studies and that is comparable to angiographic methods . 
fenestrated atrial septal aneurysm : diagnosis by transesophageal echocardiography . the diagnosis of atrial septal defect by transthoracic echocardiography remains difficult in a small subset of patients because of either suboptimal acoustic windows or unusual anatomy , for example , fenestrated defects . we report the case of a 55-year-old woman with a fenestrated atrial septal aneurysm that was incompletely visualized by transthoracic echocardiography . subsequent transesophageal echocardiography demonstrated three defects within the atrial septal aneurysm with left-to-right shunting across each defect . normal pulmonary venous connections were also defined . all echocardiographic findings were confirmed at surgery . this case demonstrates the additional diagnostic accuracy of transesophageal echocardiography for detecting disease of the atrial septum . 
giant breast hematoma requiring blood transfusion : an unusual complication after an echocardiographic study during thrombolytic therapy . we report on a patient in whom significant bleeding occurred during thrombolytic therapy . the bleeding occurred after an echocardiographic study , and it resulted in blood transfusion . 
six year follow up of a consecutive series of patients presenting to the coronary care unit with acute chest pain : prognostic importance of the electrocardiogram in a retrospective 6 year follow up data were obtained for 536 of 566 ( 95 % ) consecutive patients admitted to a coronary care unit with acute chest pain . their diagnoses were acute myocardial infarction in 290 ( 54 % ) , myocardial ischaemia in 164 ( 31 % ) , pericarditis in 16 ( 3 % ) , and non-cardiac in 66 ( 12 % ) . six year mortality was 36 % , 24 % , 0 % , and 16 % respectively . in patients with acute myocardial infarction a higher mortality rate during follow up was associated with a higher than average age , a higher than average creatine kinase , previous myocardial infarction , q wave infarction , and the presence of reciprocal changes . the presence of reciprocal changes was associated with higher than average concentration of serum creatine kinase , indicating more extensive infarction . infarction complicated by ventricular fibrillation or left bundle branch block was associated with a higher death rate . the electrocardiogram recorded at the time of acute myocardial infarction contains much useful prognostic information . 
sustained improvement in left ventricular function after successful coronary angioplasty . the short and long term effects of successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty on left ventricular function , at rest and on exercise were investigated in 49 patients . thirty-four had had no previous infarction ( group 1 ) and 15 had ( group 2 ) . technetium-99m gated blood pool images were obtained at rest and during exercise before , six weeks after , and a mean of fifteen months after successful angioplasty . before angioplasty the mean ( sd ) ejection fraction fell significantly on exercise in both groups from 58 ( 10 ) % to 53 ( 13 ) % in group 1 and from 48 ( 10 ) % to 40 ( 16 ) % in group 2 . this change was paralleled by a worsening wall motion score ( from 0.6 ( 0.4 ) to 1.6 ( 1.2 ) in group 1 and from 2.3 ( 1.9 ) to 3.3 ( 2.4 ) in group 2 ) . six weeks after the procedure there was little change in resting ejection fraction but it increased significantly on exercise ( to 62 ( 11 ) % in group 1 and to 53 ( 13 ) % in group 2 ) . there was a concomitant significant improvement in the exercise wall motion score ( to 0.4 ( 0.6 ) in group 1 and to 1.8 ( 1.1 ) in group 2 ) . this improvement in exercise ejection fraction and wall motion was maintained at later follow up with no significant deterioration in either variable and a clearly sustained improvement in ejection fraction ( 60 ( 10 ) % in group 1 and 51 ( 10 ) % in group 2 ) and wall motion score ( 0.2 ( 0.2 ) in group 1 and 1.3 ( 0.8 ) in group 2 ) compared with values before angioplasty . 
post-extrasystolic potentiation without a compensatory pause in normal and diseased hearts . variables derived from left ventricular volume were used to study post-extrasystolic potentiation . left ventriculograms were obtained from 11 healthy individuals and 49 patients with coronary heart disease ( 30 with a previous myocardial infarction and 19 without any signs of myocardial damage ) . post-extrasystolic potentiation was induced by a regularly driven right atrial rhythm that was interrupted by one atrial extrasystole in such a way that the post-extrasystolic rr interval was kept equal to the basic rr interval . the left ventricular end diastolic volumes of the pre-extrasystolic and post-extrasystolic beats were equal . in all groups there was evidence of post-extrasystolic potentiation in one or more of the indices of left ventricular function ( ejection fraction , mean normalised systolic ejection rate , and systolic volume , and stroke volume ) . potentiation was especially evident in patients with left ventricular damage ; this suggests that a compensating mechanism is an intrinsic property of the myocardium . the frank-starling mechanism does not contribute to the increased performance of the post-extrasystolic beat in normal individuals or in patients with coronary artery disease . 
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy without hypertrophy : two families with myocardial disarray in the absence of increased myocardial mass two families are described in which individuals showed widespread myocardial disarray at histological examination , in the absence of macroscopic cardiac hypertrophy . in one family the clinical presentation was that of sudden unexpected cardiac death in four family members ; members of the other family presented with electrocardiographic repolarisation changes and abnormalities of left ventricular diastolic function . the finding of myocardial disarray , the characteristic histological abnormality of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy , in the absence of increased cardiac mass suggests a wider range of abnormality in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy than is currently recognised . 
streptokinase treatment for femoral artery thrombosis after arterial cardiac catheterisation in infants and children . data on 205 children who underwent retrograde arterial catheterisation were studied to assess the frequency of femoral artery thrombosis and the safety and efficacy of systemic streptokinase treatment for this complication . in 29 ( 14 % ) a transarterial balloon dilatation was performed . in 15 ( 7.3 % ) patients impaired arterial perfusion due to vascular spasm with or without thrombus formation was seen in the cannulated leg after catheterisation . despite heparinisation , signs of impaired arterial circulation persisted in nine patients ( 4.4 % of the total ) . in these patients femoral artery thrombosis was strongly suspected . six ( 53 % ) of these had undergone a balloon dilatation . therefore in this study the risk of femoral artery thrombosis developing was 12 times greater after transarterial balloon dilatation than after arterial catheterisation without dilatation ( 20.6 % v 1.7 % ) . systemic infusion of streptokinase was started in all patients with femoral artery thrombosis . arterial perfusion became normal in all patients , though in one this was delayed . haematological monitoring showed lengthening of the thrombin time and a decrease of the fibrinogen concentration during streptokinase treatment . there were no serious complications . systemic infusion of streptokinase is a safe and useful treatment in children with persistent femoral artery thrombosis after arterial cardiac catheterisation . 
evaluation of pulmonary arterial pressure by doppler colour flow mapping in patients with a ductus arteriosus . blood flow in the pulmonary artery was studied by doppler colour flow mapping and cardiac catheterisation in 19 patients with a ductus arteriosus and different pulmonary artery pressures . in the four patients with normal pulmonary artery pressures colour doppler flow mapping showed multicoloured wide and long systolic and diastolic jets in the pulmonary artery . in the 15 patients with raised pulmonary arterial pressure the systolic jets varied from multicoloured to red and were thinner : in patients with considerably raised pulmonary arterial pressure the jets became redder during diastole . the doppler velocity tracings showed that in patients with normal pulmonary artery pressures the mean peak systolic velocity was higher than the mean end diastolic velocity -- so that in all four the ratio of peak systolic velocity to end diastolic velocity was less than 2 . the mean peak systolic velocity was much higher than the mean end diastolic velocity in 13 of the 15 patients with raised pulmonary artery pressure ; this meant that the ratio of peak systolic velocity to end diastolic velocity was greater than 2 in 10 of 11 patients . the end diastolic velocity was significantly lower in those patients with raised pulmonary artery pressure than in those with normal artery pressure . there was an inverse linear correlation between the mean pulmonary artery pressure and end diastolic ductal jet velocity in 17 of the 19 patients . colour flow mapping and this quantitative doppler technique can detect pulmonary artery hypertension in patients with a ductus arteriosus . 
preoperative measurement of pulmonary vascular resistance in complete transposition of the great arteries . transposition of the great arteries is frequently complicated by the early onset of pulmonary vascular disease . it is difficult to measure pulmonary blood flow by the fick principle because the pulmonary arteriovenous oxygen content difference is small and bronchial blood flow is increased in this condition . in eight patients ( mean age 7.7 years , range 3 months to 29 years ) with transposition of the great arteries mass spectrometry was used to measure oxygen uptake and predict pulmonary end capillary blood oxygen content . the effects of the bronchial circulation were studied by computer modelling . there was close agreement between pulmonary end capillary and pulmonary vein blood oxygen contents but the resultant percentage difference in arteriovenous content difference was significant ( mean ( se of difference ) ) ( 14.5 ( 3.8 ) % ) . the effect of the bronchial circulation was to give spuriously high estimates of pulmonary blood flow . the error was greatest when oxygen consumption was low and aortic blood was very desaturated . 
early diastolic clicks after the fontan procedure for double inlet left ventricle : anatomical and physiological correlates . m mode echocardiograms and simultaneous phonocardiograms were recorded in four patients with early diastolic clicks on auscultation . all had double inlet left ventricle and had undergone the fontan procedure with closure of the right atrioventricular valve orifice by an artificial patch . the phonocardiogram confirmed a high frequency sound occurring 60-90 ms after aortic valve closure and coinciding with the time of maximal excursion of the atrioventricular valve patch towards the ventricular mass . one patient had coexisting congenital complete heart block . the m mode echocardiogram showed " reversed " motion of the patch towards the right atrium during atrial contraction . doppler flow studies showed that coincident with this motion there was forward flow in the pulmonary artery with augmentation when atrial contraction coincided with ventricular systole . the early diastolic click in these patients was explained by abrupt cessation of the motion of the atrioventricular valve patch towards the ventricular mass in early diastole . in one patient atrial contraction led to a reversal of this motion and was associated with forward flow in the pulmonary artery . 
sudden death in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with normal left ventricular mass an active , healthy , and symptom free 16 year old boy with a family history of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy died suddenly while walking home from school . necropsy showed absence of left ventricular hypertrophy ( that is , normal heart weight ) , though the characteristic histological abnormalities of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy , such as cardiac muscle cell disorganisation and abnormal intramural coronary arteries , were present . it is likely that this patient had hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and died before left ventricular hypertrophy developed . 
dilated and contracted forms of primary endocardial fibroelastosis : a single fetal disease with two stages of development . left ventricular endocardial fibroelastosis was diagnosed by echocardiographic scanning in a fetus at 20 weeks ' gestation . repeated prenatal examination over the next 20 weeks ' gestation showed the development of the left ventricle from a chamber with a dilated cavity to a small cavity with a very thick wall . these findings were confirmed at necropsy and by the absence of other morphological anomalies . the contracted form of primary fibroelastosis in the fetus must have followed an insult that prevented any further increase in the size of the left ventricular cavity . 
cor triatriatum dexter : antemortem diagnosis in an adult by cross sectional echocardiography . cor triatriatum dexter is a rare cardiac abnormality in which the right atrium is subdivided into two distinct chambers . this anomaly is generally attributed to the persistence of the right sinus venosus valve and it is frequently associated with severe malformations of other right heart structures . the antemortem diagnosis of the membrane may be difficult and its presence is often only established at necropsy . in a woman of 56 with ebstein 's anomaly the echocardiographic features of cor triatriatum dexter were examined before and during cardiac catheterisation . these investigations showed the position of the membrane , that there was no gradient between the two atrial chambers , and that there were perforations in the centre of the membrane . 
course of diabetic retinopathy following cataract surgery five patients with mild to moderate retinopathy to both eyes underwent complication-free cataract surgery in one eye . within three months of surgery deterioration of the retinopathy was observed in the operated eye only . in four patients there was an increase of intraretinal haemorrhages and hard exudates , accompanied by clinically significant macular oedema manifested as retinal thickening and extensive fluorescein leakage from both the macular and the peripapillary capillary networks . of these four patients one also developed retinal ischaemia , evident ophthalmoscopically by flame-shaped haemorrhages and cotton-wool spots and angiographically by areas of capillary non-perfusion . the fifth patient showed proliferation of new blood vessels and vitreous haemorrhage . diabetic patients scheduled for cataract surgery should undergo a thorough preoperative evaluation of any existing retinopathy . postoperatively they should be followed up at close intervals so that any progression of retinopathy can be promptly detected and considered for laser treatment . 
a 5.3-kb deletion including exon xiii of the protein s alpha gene occurs in two protein s-deficient families . genomic dna samples from 12 protein s-deficient families with hereditary thrombophilia were analyzed by southern hybridization using protein s cdna probes . protein s-deficient members of families a and b possessed identical restriction fragment length polymorphisms , which suggest the absence of 5.3 kb from one of their protein s alpha alleles . the abnormal alleles from individuals a7 and b1 were amplified by the polymerase chain reaction using a forward primer in intron k and a reverse primer in exon xiv . the amplified dna was cloned and sequenced . sequence comparison with the normal protein s alpha gene showed that most of intron l ( roughly 4.7 kb ) , the entire exon xiii ( 151 bp ) , and about a quarter of intron m ( 407 bp ) were missing from both the a7 and b1 clones . exon xiii contains all three potential n-glycosylation sites in human protein s. this deletion may result in rna transcripts in which exon xii is spliced to exon xiv . such an arrangement would generate a stop codon at position 463 and consequently produce a nonglycosylated protein s molecule truncated by 173 amino acids . 
immunogenetic heterogeneity in rheumatoid disease as illustrated by different mhc associations ( dq , dw and c4 ) in articular and extra-articular subsets . genetic variants at drb1 ( dw subtypes ) , dqb , and c4 loci were compared in rheumatoid disease subjects with or without the extra-articular feature of felty 's syndrome or major vasculitis . dr4 positive subjects with rheumatoid arthritis alone showed no preferential associations with dqb or dw variants or with c4 null alleles . felty 's subjects showed associations with the dqb encoded dqw7 allele and with the c4b null allele but no preferential associations with any dw subtype of dr4 . by contrast dr4 + ve rheumatoid-vasculitic subjects showed associations with the dw14 as well as with dqw7 and the c4a null allele . these different mhc associations in different clinical disease subsets show that rheumatoid disease is immunogenetically heterogeneous and suggest that mhc genes outside the drb1 locus may also influence susceptibility or modify expression of the rheumatoid disease process . 
idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome terminating as disseminated t-cell lymphoma . the authors describe a case of idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome ( hes ) terminated as a t-cell lymphoma in a 3-year-old girl . the clinical course was chronic and characterized by chronic eczema , persistent peripheral blood eosinophilia , organomegaly , interstitial lung change , and pericarditis . postmortem examination demonstrated a disseminated t-cell lymphoma involving the inguinal lymph node , liver , lung , and kidney . the findings of the current case suggest a possibility that certain abnormalities in this case of idiopathic hes per se may have triggered the development of malignant lymphoma , and it may represent a transition of idiopathic hes into a t-cell lymphoma . other possible sequences are discussed . the development of t-cell malignancy in idiopathic hes in a girl is quite an unusual presentation . 
hypersensitivity reactions to epipodophyllotoxins in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia . the incidence , clinical characteristics , and outcome of hypersensitivity reactions to teniposide ( vm-26 ) , etoposide ( vp-16 ) , or both were determined in 108 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) treated with a contemporary regimen of intensive multiagent chemotherapy . fifty ( 46 % ) of the 108 patients had one or more hypersensitivity reactions . the risk of any child having an initial reaction over the cumulative dose range studied was 52 % ( 95 % confidence limits , 41 % and 63 % ) for vm-26 , compared with 34 % ( 95 % confidence limits , 24 % and 44 % ) for vp-16 . the risk of having an initial reaction to vm-26 or vp-16 was clearly related to the cumulative dose . this risk peaked at 1500 to 2000 mg/m2 for vm-26 and at 2000-3000 mg/m2 for vp-16 . all reactions were type 1 reactions according to the gell and coombs classification , characterized by urticaria , angioedema , flushing , rashes , or hypotension , and 86 % of reactions were of grade 1 or 2 severity according to standard criteria . there was no evidence of increasing clinical severity on repeated rechallenge with premedication , and no deaths occurred . the findings suggested that hypersensitivity reactions to epipodophyllotoxins in children with all are more common than previously reported , but only rarely constitute dose-limiting toxicity . 
transmural myocardial deformation in the ischemic canine left ventricle . the myocardium is a complex three-dimensional structure consisting of myocytes interconnected by a dense collagen weave that courses in different directions . regional ischemia can be expected to produce complex changes in ventricular deformation . in the present study , we examined the effects of ischemia on two - and three-dimensional finite strains during acute transmural myocardial ischemia in 13 open-chest anesthetized dogs . in contrast to systolic deformation observed during the control period in which circumferential shortening exceeded longitudinal shortening , our results indicate that after 5 minutes of acute ischemia , end-systolic in-plane lengthening across the left ventricular wall occurs in approximately equal amounts in the circumferential and longitudinal directions . along with these changes in extensional strains , there were significant negative transverse shearing deformations during ischemia . myocardial ischemia also resulted in a loss of the normal end-systolic transmural gradients of shortening and thickening . three-dimensional end-diastolic strains indicate that the left ventricular wall undergoes a significant passive reconfiguration that varies transmurally with lengthening in the epicardial tangent plane and wall thinning increasing from the epicardium toward the endocardium . the large systolic changes in shearing deformations with ischemia could potentially influence collateral blood flow and certainly indicate that uniaxial measurements of deformation in the ischemic myocardium , which do not account for shearing deformation , are incomplete and must be interpreted with caution . moreover , normal transmural systolic gradients in deformation , which would be anticipated on geometric grounds , are lost during ischemia , implying that the material properties of ischemic tissue or the loading conditions imposed on the ischemic region by partially impaired adjacent myocardium vary transmurally . 
protective effect of increased glycolytic substrate against systolic and diastolic dysfunction and increased coronary resistance from prolonged global underperfusion and reperfusion in isolated rabbit hearts perfused with erythrocyte suspensions . current therapy of myocardial infarction may include early reperfusion . we simulated myocardial perfusion conditions during evolving myocardial infarction in isolated , normothermic , isovolumic rabbit hearts perfused with buffer containing bovine red blood cells ( hematocrit of 40 % ) , and we assessed the effects of high levels of glucose and insulin as " therapy " during prolonged ( 150-minute ) severe underperfusion and reperfusion . protocol 1 consisted of underperfusion at a constant coronary perfusion pressure of 8 mm hg . the control group ( n = 8 ) received 5.5 mmol/l glucose and 15 microunits/ml insulin ; the group treated with high levels of glucose and insulin ( g + i ) ( n = 8 ) received 19.5 mmol/l glucose and 250 microunits/ml insulin during both underperfusion and reperfusion . relative to the control group , the g + i group experienced 1 ) greater developed pressure during underperfusion and increased recovery during reperfusion , 2 ) preserved diastolic function during underperfusion and reperfusion , 3 ) lower coronary resistance and greater coronary flow during the underperfusion period , 4 ) increased glycolytic flux and preserved glycogen stores and high energy phosphate levels , and 5 ) less loss of myocyte enzymes ( creatine kinase and alanine aminotransferase ) . in protocol 2 , coronary flow was kept identical in control ( n = 8 ) and g + i hearts ( n = 8 ) during the underperfusion period , and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was kept below 10 mm hg in both groups to minimize subendocardial damage and vascular compression . in this protocol , the effect of the g + i intervention in the prevention of an increase in coronary resistance during the underperfusion period was distinguished from its myocellular metabolic effects ; the high g + i substrate had protective effects on mechanical and metabolic function that were less marked than , but similar to , those in protocol 1 , indicating that its mechanisms of protection during underperfusion affected both cardiac function and coronary resistance . we conclude that the g + i intervention , in clinically relevant concentrations , markedly protected severely underperfused myocardium for 150 minutes and may be a beneficial intervention in combination with reperfusion therapy in acute myocardial infarction . 
effect of coronary hyperemia on emax and oxygen consumption in blood-perfused rabbit hearts . energetic consequences of gregg 's phenomenon . to assess the relation between increases in contractile function and oxygen consumption ( vo2 ) during increased coronary flow ( gregg 's phenomenon ) , we measured the end-systolic pressure-volume relation and the relation between vo2 and left ventricular systolic pressure-volume area ( pva , a measure of total mechanical energy output ) in blood-perfused , isovolumically contracting rabbit hearts during control and intracoronary adenosine infusion . during adenosine infusion at a constant perfusion pressure ( 93 + / - 11 mm hg ) , coronary flow increased by 99 + / - 76 % ( p less than 0.01 ) , and the slope of the end-systolic pressure-volume relation , emax ( ventricular contractility index ) , increased by 18 + / - 15 % ( p less than 0.01 ) . when compared at the same left ventricular volume , pva increased by 20 + / - 14 % ( p less than 0.01 ) and vo2 by 19 + / - 15 % ( p less than 0.01 ) with adenosine . the vo2-pva relation was linear under each condition ( both median r = 0.98 ) . with increased coronary flow , the vo2-intercept of the vo2-pva relation ( unloaded vo2 ) increased by 22 + / - 18 % ( p less than 0.01 ) without a change in the slope ; that is , a parallel upward shift was observed , indicating that the contractile efficiency ( energy conversion efficiency of the contractile machinery ) remained constant . these increases in emax and unloaded vo2 were not eliminated by beta-adrenergic blockade with propranolol . we conclude that increased coronary flow with adenosine at a constant perfusion pressure augments both emax and the nonmechanical energetic cost for excitation-contraction coupling and basal metabolism via nonadrenergic mechanisms , without changing contractile efficiency . 
spontaneous termination of reentry after one cycle or short nonsustained runs . role of oscillations and excess dispersion of refractoriness . this study describes factors that contribute to spontaneous termination of reentry lasting one to 10 cycles after induction by a single premature stimulus . reentry was studied in vitro in rings of canine atrial tissue from around the tricuspid valve orifice . activation was recorded from a circular array of 10 extracellular bipolar electrodes equally spaced around the ring . in some experiments , transmembrane or monophasic action potential recordings were made near critical sites . termination of reentry within one cycle after induction was recorded 110 times in 11 of 35 experiments . important factors contributing to termination were 1 ) an obligatory reversal of the activation sequence that resulted in a long coupling interval in the critical region beyond the site of unidirectional block after the premature stimulus and 2 ) much longer refractory periods limited to this critical region , which facilitated unidirectional block but contributed to termination when this region was first activated with a short coupling interval at the end of the first reentrant cycle . termination of nonsustained reentry lasting longer than one cycle resulted from oscillations of conduction and refractoriness initiated by the abrupt shortening of cycle length after initiation of reentry . oscillations of conduction resulted from interval-dependent conduction of reentrant impulses that encountered partially refractory tissue . for reentry to become sustained , the oscillations after induction of reentry must dampen . thus , damped cycle length oscillations after induction may identify clinical tachycardias caused by reentry with a partially excitable gap . 
inotropic response to norepinephrine is augmented early and maintained late in conscious dogs with perinephritic hypertension . we studied the inotropic responses to intravenous infusions of norepinephrine in nine conscious chronically instrumented dogs before and early ( 2-4 weeks ) in the development of perinephritic hypertension ; seven conscious dogs were studied later ( approximately 14 weeks ) , during a more stable phase of hypertension . perinephritic hypertension was associated with a 24 % increase in left ventricular ( lv ) mass during developing hypertension ; no further increase was seen during the stable hypertension phase . lv end-systolic stress was increased early ( p less than 0.01 ) but was normalized later . the lv end-systolic stress-volume relation demonstrated an enhanced contractile response to norepinephrine during developing hypertension , which returned toward control later in the course of stable hypertension . the lv dp/dt responses to norepinephrine ( 0.4 microgram/kg/min ) were significantly greater during developing hypertension ( 7,509 + / - 337 mm hg/sec , p less than 0.05 ) compared with the control period ( 4,737 + / - 286 mm hg/sec ) and returned toward the control value during stable hypertension ( 5,168 + / - 465 mm hg/sec ) . the enhanced inotropic responses to norepinephrine in developing hypertension were preserved in the presence of ganglionic blockade , suggesting that the augmentation was not mediated via reflex mechanisms . these physiological responses were associated with an increase in beta-adrenergic receptor density , but no significant change in basal or maximal adenylate cyclase stimulation occurred during developing hypertension . thus , in contrast to prior studies in anesthetized animals , the inotropic response to beta-adrenergic stimulation is not depressed in conscious dogs but is enhanced selectively during the development of hypertension and maintained during stable hypertension . 
changes in diastolic cardiac function in developing and stable perinephritic hypertension in conscious dogs . the effects of developing perinephritic hypertension ( 2-3 weeks ) and a more stable period of perinephritic hypertension ( approximately 14 weeks ) were examined on indexes of left ventricular ( lv ) diastolic function in conscious , chronically instrumented dogs . the complete period of diastole was studied using indexes of isovolumic relaxation ( tau ) , early filling ( lv + dd/dt ) , and stiffness ( myocardial stiffness and chamber stress/diameter ratio ) . during developing hypertension , increased lv end-diastolic pressure , lv end-diastolic stress , peak filling rate , myocardial stiffness , and the stress/diameter ratio increased ( p less than 0.05 ) ; the time constant tau was not changed . these changes were associated with preserved baseline levels of coronary blood flow ( radioactive microspheres ) but an impaired coronary vasodilator response to adenosine . acute administration of phenylephrine in the normotensive dogs caused increases in systolic and diastolic stress and resulted in increases in myocardial stiffness and in the stress/diameter ratio similar to values observed in developing hypertension . during stable hypertension , lv end-diastolic stress , peak filling rate , and both parameters of late-diastolic function ( myocardial stiffness and stress/diameter ratio ) returned toward control values , but the isovolumic relaxation time constant was increased . quantitative histological evaluation revealed no increase in stainable connective tissue in dogs with stable hypertension compared with control dogs , and hydroxyproline concentration was not increased in the subendomyocardium , midmyocardium , or subepimyocardium of the dogs with chronic perinephritic hypertension . thus , in developing hypertension , major alterations in diastolic function were observed that were not structurally related , since these changes 1 ) could be induced in normal dogs by increasing preload and afterload acutely with phenylephrine and 2 ) were improved during the ensuing stable period of hypertension . 
effects of inosine on glycolysis and contracture during myocardial ischemia . the effects of inosine ( ino ) on substrate metabolism and rigor formation in ischemic myocardium were examined in isolated rabbit hearts . metabolite content was assessed in tissue extracts by chemical analysis and in the whole heart by 13c and 31p nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy . in ischemic hearts metabolizing either [ 3-13c ] pyruvate or [ 1-13c ] glucose , 1 mm ino increased both total and 13c-labeled alanine content ; lactate content was unaffected . at 3 minutes of ischemia , tissue alanine was 1.81 + / - 0.11 microm/g wet wt ( mean + / - sem ) in hearts perfused with pyruvate + ino versus 1.23 + / - 0.15 microm/g wet wt in hearts perfused with pyruvate alone ( p less than 0.05 ) . ino reduced tissue glycogen during ischemia in pyruvate-perfused hearts . tissue alanine content in ischemic hearts that were supplied glucose + ino ( 1.29 + / - 0.13 microm/g wet wt ) was greater than in ischemic hearts supplied glucose alone ( 0.65 + / - 0.14 microm/g wet wt ) . alanine was found to originate from pyruvate and was a glycolytic end product in glucose-perfused hearts . ino raised the [ 3-13c ] alanine / [ 3-13c ] lactate ratio in ischemic , intact hearts ( glucose = 0.24 + / - 0.07 versus glucose + ino = 0.60 + / - 0.09 ; pyruvate = 0.49 + / - 0.08 versus pyruvate + ino = 0.89 + / - 0.08 ) . at 7 minutes of ischemia , atp content fell to 70 + / - 3 % with glucose + ino versus 58 + / - 5 % with glucose alone . rigor ( stone heart ) was delayed from 14.7 + / - 1.3 to 23.2 + / - 1.6 minutes with ino . ino did not change atp content in ischemic hearts that were supplied pyruvate but delayed rigor ( pyruvate = 9.9 + / - 1.2 minutes ; pyruvate + ino = 15.6 + / - 1.0 minutes ) , possibly at the expense of glycogen . supplemental glucose improved the effectiveness of ino with pyruvate to preserve atp ( pyruvate + glucose = 42 + / - 6 % ; pyruvate + glucose + ino = 72 + / - 6 % ) and further delayed rigor ( pyruvate + glucose = 13.3 + / - 1.5 minutes ; pyruvate + glucose + ino = 20.3 + / - 1.8 minutes ) . glucose metabolism supported improved energetic and contractile states in ischemic hearts treated with ino . thus , cardioprotection of the ischemic heart by ino was associated with preservation of functional integrity and improved energy production due to increased glycolytic activity . activation of glycolysis in the presence of ino was accommodated by augmented alanine production without the additional accumulation of lactate . 
myocardial sulfhydryl pool alterations occur during reperfusion after brief and prolonged myocardial ischemia in vivo . myocardial sulfhydryl ( sh ) - containing compounds , including reduced glutathione ( gsh ) , are both defenses against and potential markers of reactive oxygen metabolite injury during ischemia and reperfusion . we examined the alterations in gsh and other myocardial sh pools during reperfusion in anesthetized dogs exposed to brief ( 15 minutes , n = 7 ) or prolonged ( 90 minutes , n = 6 ) regional ischemia caused by occlusion of the left anterior descending artery . ninety minutes of ischemia followed by 5 hours of reperfusion , which resulted in myocardial necrosis of 43.9 + / - 4.0 % of the area at risk , caused a 22 % reduction in total myocardial sh groups ( p less than 0.01 ) , a 57 % decrease in nonprotein myocardial sh groups ( p less than 0.01 ) , a 56 % decrease in gsh ( p less than 0.01 ) , and a 62 % decrease in non-gsh , nonprotein sh groups ( p less than 0.02 ) . however , protein sh groups were not significantly reduced ( 12 % decrease , p = ns ) . also , myocardial release of gsh and oxidized glutathione ( gssg ) into the coronary venous effluent occurred during early reperfusion . in contrast , 15 minutes of ischemia , followed by 30 minutes of reperfusion , did not alter myocardial total sh groups , protein sh groups , or gsh ( 9 % decrease , p = ns ) ; nor was there reperfusion release of gsh or gssg . however , even with brief ischemia , nonprotein sh groups decreased 23 % ( p less than 0.05 ) , due mainly to a 59 % decrease in the non-gsh , nonprotein sh pool ( p less than 0.05 ) . these changes after brief ischemia occurred without alterations in myocardial gssg or the gsh/gssg ratio . 
modulation of coronary vasomotor tone in humans . progressive endothelial dysfunction with different early stages of coronary atherosclerosis . the endothelium plays a critical role in the control of vasomotor tone by the release of vasoactive substances . because endothelial injury or dysfunction is considered important very early in atherogenesis , we hypothesized that abnormal endothelial function precedes the angiographic detection of coronary atherosclerosis in the human coronary circulation . the coronary vasomotor responses to three different endothelium-mediated stimuli ( intracoronary infusion of acetylcholine 10 ( -8 ) to 10 ( -6 ) m , increase in blood flow to induce flow-dependent dilation , and sympathetic stimulation by cold pressor testing ) were assessed by quantitative angiography and subselective intracoronary doppler flow velocity measurements within the left anterior descending coronary artery in 38 patients . all three stimuli elicited epicardial artery dilation in all 11 patients with smooth coronary arteries and absence of risk factors for coronary artery disease ( group 1 ) . all nine patients with smooth coronary arteries but with hypercholesterolemia ( group 2 ) demonstrated a selective impairment in endothelial function with vasoconstriction ( 35 + / - 12.7 % decrease in mean luminal area ) in response to acetylcholine but showed a preserved flow-dependent dilation ( 15.5 + / - 4.4 % increase in mean luminal area ) and vasodilation in response to cold pressor testing ( 14.2 + / - 4.6 % increase in mean luminal area ) . in all nine patients with an angiographically defined smooth coronary artery segment but with evidence of atherosclerosis elsewhere in the coronary system ( group 3 ) , both acetylcholine and cold pressor testing induced vasoconstriction ( 26.2 + / - 8.7 % and 18.7 + / - 7.9 % decrease in mean luminal area , respectively ) , whereas flow-dependent dilation was preserved ( 20.4 + / - 8.7 % increase in mean luminal area ) . in the nine patients with angiographic evidence of wall irregularities ( group 4 ) , flow-dependent dilation was also abolished and vasoconstriction occurred in response to acetylcholine and cold pressor testing ( 34.5 + / - 10.7 % and 19.9 + / - 6.3 % decrease in mean luminal area , respectively ) . all coronary artery segments dilated in response to nitroglycerin , suggesting preserved function of vascular smooth muscle . despite similar reductions in coronary vascular resistance in response to the smooth muscle relaxant papaverin , patients with hypercholesterolemia demonstrated a selective impairment of vasodilation of the resistance vasculature in response to acetylcholine ( p less than 0.05 versus groups 1 , 3 , and 4 ) . thus , there is a progressive impairment of endothelial vasoactive functioning in coronary arteries of patients with different early stages of atherosclerosis , beginning with a selective endothelial dysfunction in angiographically defined normal arteries in patients with hypercholesterolemia and progressively worsening to a complete loss of endothelium-mediated vasodilation in angiographically defined atherosclerotic coronary arteries . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
accuracy of exercise electrocardiography in detecting physiologically significant coronary arterial lesions . the accuracy of exercise electrocardiography in detecting a physiologically significant coronary artery stenosis has been assessed previously by comparing the exercise test with a coronary arteriogram . the inherent inaccuracy of visually determined percent diameter stenosis measurements might have lead to the conclusion that the exercise electrocardiogram was less accurate than it truly was . to determine the accuracy of the exercise electrocardiography in detecting a physiologically significant coronary stenosis , we studied 40 patients with one-vessel , one-lesion coronary artery disease , a normal resting electrocardiogram , and no hypertrophy or prior infarction . each patient underwent exercise electrocardiography ( bruce protocol ) that was interpreted as abnormal if the st segment developed 0.1-mv or greater depression 80 msec after the j point . the physiological significance of each coronary stenosis was assessed by measuring of coronary flow reserve ( peak divided by resting blood flow velocity ) in the stenotic artery using a doppler catheter and intracoronary papaverine ( normal , 3.5 or greater peak/resting velocity ) . the percent diameter and percent area stenosis produced by each lesion were determined using quantitative angiography ( brown/dodge method ) . of the 17 patients with reduced coronary flow reserve ( 3.5 or greater peak/resting blood flow velocity ) in the stenotic artery , 14 had an abnormal exercise electrocardiogram ( sensitivity , 0.82 ; 95 % confidence interval , 0.70-0 .94 ) . conversely , 20 of 23 patients with normal coronary flow reserves had normal exercise tests ( specificity , 0.87 ; 95 % confidence interval , 0.77-0 .97 ) . the exercise electrocardiogram was abnormal in each of 11 patients with markedly reduced coronary flow reserve ( less than 2.5 peak/resting velocity ) and in three of six patients with moderately reduced reserve ( 2.5-3 .4 peak/resting velocity ) . the products of systolic blood pressure and heart rate at peak exercise were significantly correlated with coronary reserve in patients with truly abnormal exercise tests . in comparison , the sensitivity ( 0.61 ; 95 % confidence interval , 0.46-0 .76 ) and specificity ( 0.73 ; 95 % confidence interval , 0.60-0 .86 ) of exercise electrocardiography in detecting a 60 % or greater diameter stenosis may be significantly lower ( p less than 0.05 ) . exercise electrocardiography , therefore , was a good predictor of the physiological significance ( assessed by coronary flow reserve ) of a coronary stenosis in patients with a normal resting electrocardiogram and no hypertrophy or prior infarction . its value in a broader and larger patient population will require further study . these results , however , underscore the importance of a physiological gold standard in assessing the accuracy of noninvasive studies for detecting coronary artery disease . 
in-hospital and 1-year mortality in 1,524 women after myocardial infarction . comparison with 4,315 men . we determined in-hospital and 1-year prognoses after acute myocardial infarction ( mi ) in 5,839 consecutive patients derived from 14 of 21 coronary care units in israel during 1981-1983 . age-adjusted in-hospital mortality was 23.1 % in 1,524 women and 15.7 % in 4,315 men ( p less than 0.0005 ) . one-year age-adjusted mortality rates in patients surviving hospitalization were 11.8 % in women and 9.3 % in men ( p = 0.03 ) . cumulative age-adjusted 1-year mortality rates were 31.8 % in women and 23.1 % in men ( p less than 0.0005 ) . relative odds of mortality , covariate-adjusted for major prognostic factors that included age , prior mi , congestive heart failure , and infarct location by electrocardiogram , indicated that female gender was independently and significantly associated with increased mortality both during hospitalization ( relative odds , 1.72 ; 95 % confidence interval , 1.45-2 .04 ) and at 1 year after discharge ( relative odds , 1.32 ; 95 % confidence interval , 1.05-1 .66 ) . in separate multivariate analyses for each gender , a major factor that emerged as a predictor of outcome in women , but not in men , was a reported history of diabetes mellitus , both for in-hospital mortality and for 1-year mortality . however , even in the nondiabetics in this population , female gender was a significant , independent predictor of in-hospital mortality . the findings of the present study substantiate that women fare worse than men after suffering an acute mi , that increased age does not fully account for the increased mortality in women , and that diabetic women are at particularly high risk once mi has occurred . 
secular trends in q wave and non-q wave acute myocardial infarction . the minnesota heart survey . the minnesota heart survey examined trends of q wave and non-q wave acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) using a 50 % random sample of all hospital discharges of patients with ami or another acute coronary disease from 35 of 36 hospitals in 1970 and 30 of 31 hospitals in 1980 in the minneapolis-st . paul metropolitan area . a total of 1,901 and 1,864 potential ami cases were abstracted in 1970 and 1980 , respectively . electrocardiograms were coded according to the minnesota code . amis were validated by computerized algorithm based on chest pain , enzymes , electrocardiograms , and autopsy . this study shows that with the use of a consistent , standard diagnostic algorithm , attack rates for q wave ami did not change significantly between 1970 and 1980 and that attack rates for non-q wave ami decreased significantly during the same decade . however , when the more sensitive cardiac enzymes creatine phosphokinase and creatine phosphokinase-mb were considered , attack rates of both q wave and non-q wave amis increased . this research documents four important trends for community ami rates that are at variance with those reported by others . there was a decline in non-q wave ami attack rates from 1970 to 1980 ; women had outcomes equal to or worse than those for men for both case-fatality and 7-year survival rates ; patients with non-q wave amis had worse in-hospital prognoses than those with q wave amis ; and 7-year survival rates were worse for q wave ami in 1980 . these findings demonstrate the need for standard diagnostic criteria for q wave and non-q wave ami if trends are to be monitored . in the future , as new trials of operative and nonoperative therapies of ami are undertaken , these considerations will increase in importance . 
impairment of the myocardial ultrastructure and changes of the cytoskeleton in dilated cardiomyopathy . this study was designed to determine the morphological correlate of chronic heart failure . myocardial tissue from eight patients undergoing transplantation surgery because of end-stage dilated cardiomyopathy was investigated by electron microscopy and immunocytochemistry using monoclonal antibodies against elements of the cytoskeleton : desmin , tubulin , vinculin , and vimentin . the tissue showed hypertrophy , atrophy of myocytes , and an increased amount of fibrosis . ultrastructural changes consisted of enlargement and varying shape of nuclei , numerous very small mitochondria , proliferation of t tubules , and accumulation of lipid droplets and glycogen . the most obvious ultrastructural alteration was the decrease of myofilaments , ranging from rarefication to complete absence of sarcomeres in cells filled with unspecified cytoplasm . immunocytochemistry showed that desmin was localized at the z lines . in diseased myocardium , the amount of desmin was increased , but it was disorderly arranged . tubulin formed a fine network throughout the myocytes and was significantly increased in cardiomyopathic hearts . vinculin , a protein closely associated with the cytoskeleton , occurred not only at the sarcolemma and the intercalated disc but also within the myocardial cells . ultrastructural changes and alterations of the cytoskeleton were severe in about one third of all cells . about one third of all cells showed moderately severe changes , and the remaining cells were normal . vimentin was present in the interstitial cells and was increased in relation to the increase of fibrosis . we conclude that the increase of fibrosis , the degeneration of hypertrophied myocardial cells , and the alterations of the cytoskeleton are the morphological correlates of reduced myocardial function in chronic heart failure . 
hla class ii ( dr and dq ) antigen associations in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy . validation study and meta-analysis of published hla association studies we previously reported antigen frequency differences for hla-dr4 and hla-drw6 between idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy ( idc ) patients and healthy controls in a pilot study . to confirm these findings , we undertook an independent study with a prospective hypothesis regarding the frequencies of dr4 and drw6 ; typing for a second family of class ii antigens ( hla-dq ) was included because of the proximity of the dq loci to the dr loci and the strong linkage disequilibrium between some of the dr and dq alleles . comparing a new consecutive series of idc patients ( n = 41 ) and healthy blood bank controls ( n = 53 ) , we confirmed an increase of dr4 antigen frequency in patients ( 49 % versus 21 % , p less than 0.005 ) . a trend toward decreased expression of drw6 among patients was also noted ( 10 % of patients versus 23 % of controls ) . hla-dqw4 was significantly elevated in patients compared with controls ( 27 % versus 6 % , p less than 0.005 ; relative risk , 6.1 ; etiologic fraction , 0.22 ) . we identified the combined dr4-dqw4 haplotype in five of 41 caucasian idc patients ( 12 % ) and none of 53 controls ( p less than 0.007 ) . a comparison of specific antigen frequencies between the preliminary and validation studies did not reveal significant differences ; therefore , the data from the two studies were examined in combination . for the combined studies , dr4 was elevated ( 51 % versus 27 % in controls , p less than 0.001 ) , and drw6 was decreased ( 9 % versus 24 % in controls , p less than 0.01 ) . the relative risk for dr4 was 2.8 , and the etiologic fraction was 0.33 . 
acute hemodynamic effects of captopril in children with a congestive or restrictive cardiomyopathy the acute hemodynamic effects of captopril were evaluated at cardiac catheterization in 16 children ( age , 0.3-18 years ) with cardiomyopathy . twelve children had congestive cardiomyopathy , whereas four had restrictive cardiomyopathy . hemodynamic measurements were obtained 30 and 60 minutes after the oral administration of captopril ( 0.5 mg/kg ) . blood pressures were measured in the aorta , pulmonary artery , right atrium , and pulmonary capillary wedge position ; cardiac outputs were measured by the thermodilution technique . hemodynamic data could not be obtained after the administration of captopril in one child with congestive cardiomyopathy because of an immediate , severe hypotensive response . in 11 of 12 children with congestive cardiomyopathy , cardiac index increased by 22 % , from 2.3 to 2.8 l/min/m2 ( p less than 0.05 ) , and stroke volume increased by 22 % , from 23 to 28 ml/m2 ( p less than 0.05 ) . systemic vascular resistance decreased from 32 to 21 units.m2 ( p less than 0.01 ) , but the mean aortic pressure did not change significantly . in contrast , four children with restrictive cardiomyopathy had no change in cardiac output after captopril , but there was a trend toward significant arterial hypotension ( mean aortic pressure decreased from 78 to 59 mm hg ) . thus , captopril acutely reduced systemic vascular resistance and increased both cardiac output and stroke volume in children with congestive cardiomyopathy . in children with restrictive cardiomyopathy , however , captopril did not affect cardiac output , but it did decrease aortic pressure . these data indicate that captopril may benefit children with a congestive cardiomyopathy but that captopril probably should not be used in children with restrictive disease . 
what is the best method for assessing the long-term outcome of surgery for accessory pathways and atrioventricular junctional reentrant tachycardias ? the success of surgery for supraventricular tachycardia ( svt ) is evaluated by a variety of methods in different hospitals . unfortunately , the predictive values of these methods are not known . we therefore compared the various methods in 261 patients undergoing surgery for svt at westmead hospital since 1981 . surgical outcome was assessed by early tests during the first week after surgery ( serial 12-lead electrocardiograms , telemetric monitoring of the electrocardiogram , and electrophysiological study performed using epicardial wires ) ; later tests at 6 months after surgery ( 12-lead electrocardiograms and electrophysiological study ) ; and symptomatic review done by telephone interview at a median of 34 months after surgery . early tests were obtained in 97 % , later tests were obtained in 76 % , and symptomatic review was obtained in 98 % of patients . all of the examined tests were inaccurate methods of surgical assessment compared with the late electrophysiological study . a large proportion of the patients proven to be surgical failures at the late electrophysiological study were not detected by early tests ( 83 % ) , by later electrocardiograms ( 66 % ) , or by symptomatic assessment ( 41 % ) . accurate assessment of surgical outcome requires a late electrophysiological study to permit comparison of surgical techniques . late electrophysiological study also provides accurate information on the current risks and benefits of proposed surgery for communication to patients to enable them to make an informed decision on future treatment . most patients are willing to have a late electrophysiological study and usually benefit from clarification of their true surgical outcome . 
intravital detection of skin capillary aneurysms by videomicroscopy with indocyanine green in patients with progressive systemic sclerosis and related disorders . conventional capillaroscopy and infrared fluorescence videomicroscopy with indocyanine green were performed at the nailfold in 12 healthy controls and 38 patients with microangiopathy due to systemic sclerosis or related disorders . saccular aneurysms featuring head and neck ( type 1 ) and aneurysmatic enlargements ( type 2 ) were defined . microaneurysms were located at the apex or near the apex of capillary loops and were significantly more common in patients than in controls ( p less than 0.02 for type 1 and p less than 0.001 for type 2 ) . combination of the two lesions was found only in patients and appears to be a valuable new diagnostic sign for the presence of microangiopathy . in comparison with conventional capillaroscopy , about twice as many microaneurysms were detected by videomicroscopy with indocyanine green coupling almost completely to plasma proteins . the new technique allows visualization of capillary aneurysms even when filled only by plasma . 
effect of weight reduction in moderately overweight patients on recorded ambulatory blood pressure and free cytosolic platelet calcium . although platelet cytosolic calcium has been shown to decrease during pharmacological treatment of hypertension , there is no evidence that cytosolic calcium also falls during a nonpharmacological reduction in blood pressure . to provide such evidence , we examined prospectively the relation between platelet cytosolic calcium and ambulatory blood pressure during weight reduction in moderately overweight ( body mass index [ bmi ] greater than 25 ) , mildly hypertensive individuals . the experimental group ( responders : bmi reduction greater than 5 % ) consisted of 19 patients who lost 8.5 + / - 2.9 kg ( mean + / - sd , p less than 0.05 ) during a 10-week hypocaloric diet , whereas the control group ( nonresponders : bmi reduction less than 5 % ) consisted of 12 patients who showed no relevant change in body weight ( -2.0 + / - 1.3 kg ) during the same period of time . the moderate weight loss of the responders decreased blood pressure by 14/5 mm hg ( p less than 0.05 ) , as measured by ambulatory monitoring , which renders a placebo effect unlikely . this nonpharmacological reduction in blood pressure was accompanied by a proportional 11 % decrease ( p less than 0.05 ) in platelet cytosolic calcium and also by significant ( p less than 0.05 ) decreases in plasma catecholamines and serum cholesterol . these findings establish the concept of a nonpharmacological reduction in free cytosolic platelet calcium in humans and add further evidence suggesting a link between intracellular calcium homeostasis and blood pressure regulation . 
relation between leisure-time physical activity and blood pressure in older women . although there is some evidence that physical activity may decrease blood pressure in young and middle-aged women , the physical activity-blood pressure association in older women has rarely been studied . as part of an ongoing community-based study of chronic disease , 641 caucasian women between the ages of 50 and 89 years had blood pressure measured following the hypertension detection and follow-up program protocol . they also answered selected health interview survey questions about their leisure-time activity and were classified into categories of light ( 58 % ) , moderate ( 24 % ) , heavy ( 6 % ) , or no physical activity ( 12 % ) by the estimated metabolic rate required for each activity . women who engaged in any physical activity were significantly younger and thinner than sedentary women and had lower fasting and 2-hour postchallenge insulin levels . they did not differ in alcohol consumption , cigarette use , or prevalence of coronary heart disease or diabetes . rates of systolic and diastolic hypertension were significantly lower in women participating in light , moderate , or heavy physical activity compared with sedentary women . blood pressure levels decreased with each increase in reported activity intensity ( p less than 0.005 for trend ) , with systolic blood pressure approximately 20 mm hg lower in the heaviest activity group compared with systolic blood pressure in sedentary women . intergroup differences remained statistically significant after adjustment for age and body mass index . although physical activity was associated with lower fasting and 2-hour postchallenge insulin levels ( p less than 0.01 for trend ) , adjustment for insulin levels did not alter blood pressure differences among activity groups . 
mechanisms of reoxygenation injury in cultured ventricular myocytes to investigate factors contributing to reperfusion and reoxygenation myocardial injury , we exposed layers of cultured chick ventricular myocytes to severe hypoxia for up to 3 hours in the presence of 20 mm 2-deoxyglucose , zero glucose , and 5 mm pyruvate , and then exposed the myocytes to reoxygenation . lactate dehydrogenase ( ldh ) release was moderately increased during 3 hours of hypoxia but was increased markedly during reoxygenation . coincident changes in intracellular calcium concentration ( [ ca2 + ] i ) and cell motion were also measured during hypoxia and reoxygenation . during hypoxia , [ ca2 + ] i increased to more than 1 microm , and with reoxygenation , [ ca2 + ] i abruptly decreased slightly but remained elevated more than 1 microm . cells developed a stable rigor after 30 minutes of hypoxia . reoxygenation caused a marked hypercontracture within 5 minutes . pretreatment of myocytes with either 2,3-butanedione monoxime , which inhibits ca2 ( + ) - dependent force development , or cyanide inhibited reoxygenation hypercontracture . ldh release after reoxygenation was also significantly reduced in the presence of 2,3-butanedione monoxime . treatment of myocytes with superoxide dismutase and catalase during hypoxia also resulted in a decrease in ldh release during reoxygenation . we conclude that an abrupt increase in [ ca2 + ] i during reoxygenation does not account for reoxygenation injury . however , in the presence of elevated [ ca2 + ] i , reoxygenation and the resulting probable resynthesis of atp causes [ ca2 + ] i-dependent myofilament crossbridge cycling , and the resulting hypercontracture contributes to myocyte damage . the generation of oxygen free radicals after reoxygenation also appears to contribute to cell injury in this system . 
a new method for quantification of regurgitant flow rate using color doppler flow imaging of the flow convergence region proximal to a discrete orifice . an in vitro study . while color doppler flow mapping has yielded a quick and relatively sensitive method for visualizing the turbulent jets generated in valvular insufficiency , quantification of the degree of valvular insufficiency has been limited by the dependence of visualization of turbulent jets on hemodynamic as well as instrument-related factors . color doppler flow imaging , however , does have the capability of reliably showing the spatial relations of laminar flows . an area where flow accelerates proximal to a regurgitant orifice is commonly visualized on the left ventricular side of a mitral regurgitant orifice , especially when imaging is performed with high gain and a low pulse repetition frequency . this area of flow convergence , where the flow stream narrows symmetrically , can be quantified because velocity and the flow cross-sectional area change in inverse proportion along streamlines centered at the orifice . in this study , a gravity-driven constant-flow system with five sharp-edged diaphragm orifices ( ranging from 2.9 to 12 mm in diameter ) was imaged both parallel and perpendicular to the direction of flow through the orifice . color doppler flow images were produced by zero shifting so that the abrupt change in display color occurred at different velocities . this " aliasing boundary " with a known velocity and a measurable radial distance from the center of the orifice was used to determine an isovelocity hemisphere such that flow rate through the orifice was calculated as 2 pi r2 x vr , where r is the radial distance from the center of the orifice to the color change and vr is the velocity at which the color change was noted . using vr values from 54 to 14 cm/sec obtained with a 3.75-mhz transducer and from 75 to 18 cm/sec obtained with a 2.5-mhz transducer , we calculated flow rates and found them to correlate with measured flow rates ( r = 0.94-0 .99 ) . the slope of the regression line was closest to unity when the lowest vr and the correspondingly largest r were used in the calculation . the flow rates estimated from color doppler flow imaging could also be used in conjunction with continuous-wave doppler measurements of the maximal velocity of flow through the orifice to calculate orifice areas ( r = 0.75-0 .96 correlation with measured areas ) . 
effects of pressure and volume of the receiving chamber on the spatial distribution of regurgitant jets as imaged by color doppler flow mapping . an in vitro study . regurgitant jet dimensions imaged by color doppler flow mapping have been used to evaluate the severity of valvular insufficiency in clinical studies . to study the effect of pressure and volume within the receiving chamber on the magnitude of spatial distribution of regurgitant jets assessed by color doppler techniques , we designed a simple constant-flow model in which a jet was driven through a known orifice ( 1.5 mm2 ) into a compliant receiving chamber by a steady-flow pump . a distal tube at the outflow closed the system and maintained the volume of the chamber constant during pump operation . we varied flow rate from 60 to 270 ml/min into elastic balloons with different static compliances of 1 , 2 , 4.5 , and 9 ml/mm hg ( pressures of 57 , 28 , 18 , and 8 mm hg , respectively ) ; the balloons served as receiving chambers at the constant volume of 150 ml . we also evaluated the effect of different volumes of a receiving chamber ( 110 , 130 , and 150 ml and pressures of 5 , 15 , and 24 mm hg ) with a static compliance of 2 ml/mm hg over the same range of flow rates . for each of the different balloons , jet area correlated linearly with the jet velocity across the orifice ( r = 0.98 , 0.99 , 0.98 , and 0.97 ) and also with flow rate ( r = 0.97 , 0.99 , 0.98 , and 0.99 ) . at the same flow rate and volume of receiving chamber , however , the jet area imaged by color doppler decreased as the pressure in the receiving chamber increased , although receiving-chamber volume was constant . 
magnitude and time course of extracellular potassium inhomogeneities during acute ischemia in pigs . effect of verapamil . prior studies have demonstrated the presence of inhomogeneities in myocardial [ k + ] e after serial 10-minute occlusions of the left anterior descending coronary artery in the pig , even within restricted locations of an ischemic zone . these inhomogeneities are thought to underlie the electrophysiological abnormalities responsible for lethal ventricular arrhythmias through reentrant and nonreentrant pathways , but a clear association has not been demonstrated . as a prerequisite to establishing this association , these studies were performed to establish measurement standards for [ k + ] e inhomogeneity , to quantify the magnitude and time course of these inhomogeneities , to determine whether the inhomogeneities are greater in the ischemic border where lethal ventricular arrhythmias are known to originate , and to assess the effect of a known antifibrillatory drug on [ k + ] e inhomogeneities . [ k + ] e ( expressed as the change in potassium equilibrium potential , dek [ mv ] ) was measured in 15 preparations using an average of 17 closely spaced , critically calibrated k ( + ) - sensitive electrodes having stable response characteristics . a series of four 10-minute occlusions each separated by a 50-minute reperfusion period were performed in each study . in half of the studies , intravenous verapamil ( 0.2 mg/kg bolus followed by 0.0065 mg/kg/hr ) was administered before the fourth occlusion . in nine studies ( five control and four verapamil ) , electrodes were placed in the marginal ischemic zone ( from 2 mm outside to 5 mm inside the visible cyanotic border ) . in six other studies ( three control and three verapamil ) , electrodes were placed in the central ischemic zone ( 10-20 mm within the ischemic region ) . we determined that the standard deviation is the best measure of inhomogeneity and that 12 equivalent measurement sites are required to estimate it with a satisfactory degree of statistical confidence . we found that after 10 minutes of ischemia , mean dek was 1.6 times greater in the central than in the marginal ischemic zone , whereas mean standard deviation at the same time was 1.5 times greater in the marginal than in the central ischemic zone . verapamil reduced mean dek and mean standard deviation in both ischemic zones for most of the occlusion by delaying the rise in [ k + ] e and the inhomogeneity of that rise by 3-5 minutes . comparisons of mean dek with mean standard deviation revealed a steep linear relation in the marginal zone and a curvilinear relation in the central zone where higher mean dek values were not accompanied by higher values for mean standard deviation . furthermore , we determined that these relations were not altered by verapamil . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
changes in left ventricular volume , mass , and function during the development and regression of supraventricular tachycardia-induced cardiomyopathy . disparity between recovery of systolic versus diastolic function . chronic supraventricular tachycardia causes a dilated cardiomyopathy in man . terminating this tachycardia appears to result in symptomatic improvement ; however , its effects on left ventricular ( lv ) volume , mass , and function have not been fully examined . accordingly , hemodynamic studies using simultaneous echocardiography and catheterization were performed in three groups of pigs : 1 ) those subjected to rapid left atrial pacing ( 240 beats/min ) for 3 weeks ( svt , n = 8 ) , 2 ) those subjected to supraventricular tachycardia for 3 weeks followed by termination of pacing and a 4-week recovery period ( psvt , n = 9 ) , and 3 ) sham-operated controls ( ctr , n = 10 ) . systolic pump function was assessed using fractional shortening ( fs ) , peak ejection rate [ peak ( - ) dd/dt ] , and maximum rate of pressure development [ peak ( + ) dp/dt ] . diastolic function was assessed using the time constant of isovolumic pressure decline ( tau ) , peak early diastolic filling rate [ peak ( + ) dd/dt ] , the chamber stiffness constant ( kc ) , and the myocardial stiffness constant ( km ) . supraventricular tachycardia caused lv dilation ( end-diastolic dimension [ edd ] increased from 3.5 + / - 0.4 cm in ctr to 4.9 + / - 0.5 cm in svt , p less than 0.05 ) but no change in lv mass ( lv weight-to-body weight ratio [ lv/bw ] ) was 2.58 + / - 0.3 g/kg in ctr and 2.66 + / - 0.4 g/kg in svt ) , all indexes of systolic function became abnormal ( fs fell from 30 + / - 4 % in ctr to 13 + / - 5 % in svt , p less than 0.05 ) , and the indexes of relaxation and filling were slowed ( tau increased from 36 + / - 3 msec in ctr to 51 + / - 13 msec in svt , p less than 0.05 ) . there were no significant changes in kc or km . after terminating the supraventricular tachycardia , lv volume fell but remained greater than that in ctr ( edd was 4.2 + / - 0.4 cm in psvt , p less than 0.05 versus ctr ) and substantial lv hypertrophy developed ( lv/bw was 3.48 + / - 0.5 g/kg in psvt , p less than 0.05 versus ctr ) . systolic function returned to normal ( fs was 31 + / - 5 % in psvt ) but diastolic function remained abnormal . in psvt , tau remained prolonged ( 49 + / - 12 msec , p less than 0.05 versus ctr ) , kc increased from 3.7 + / - 1.0 in ctr to 7.4 + / - 1.2 ( p less than 0.05 ) , and km increased from 4.4 + / - 1.5 in ctr to 13.9 + / - 9.7 ( p less than 0.05 ) . thus , the improvement in systolic function that occurs after the termination of supraventricular tachycardia is associated with the development of lv hypertrophy and persistent diastolic dysfunction . 
loss of endothelial pertussis toxin-sensitive g protein function in atherosclerotic porcine coronary arteries . pertussis toxin , an irreversible inhibitor of some g proteins , inhibits endothelium-dependent relaxations to certain agonists in porcine coronary arteries . in the present study , the effects of the toxin were examined on endothelium-dependent and - independent relaxations of hypercholesterolemic and atherosclerotic porcine coronary arteries to assess the functional state of the endothelial pertussis toxin-sensitive g protein . male yorkshire pigs were maintained on either a regular diet ( control group , n = 7 ) or a 2 % high-cholesterol diet ( cholesterol-fed group , n = 7 ) for 10 weeks . after the initial 2 weeks of maintenance , animals in both groups underwent balloon catheter removal of the endothelium of the left anterior descending or left circumflex coronary arteries . endothelium-dependent responses were examined in vitro after 10 weeks of maintenance ; at this time , a full lining of endothelial cells in both left coronary arteries was confirmed histologically . in arteries with endothelium of the control group ( normal responses ) , pertussis toxin significantly inhibited the endothelium-dependent relaxations to serotonin , uk14304 ( a selective alpha 2-adrenergic receptor agonist ) , and thrombin but not those to adp , bradykinin , or the calcium ionophore a23187 . in previously denuded arteries of the control group ( effects of endothelial regeneration alone ) or intact arteries of the cholesterol-fed group ( effects of hypercholesterolemia alone ) , the relaxations to serotonin , uk14304 , and thrombin were impaired significantly ; those relaxations were impaired further in previously denuded arteries of the cholesterol-fed group ( effects of atherosclerosis ) . the inhibitory effects of pertussis toxin were significantly reduced after endothelial regeneration and in hypercholesterolemia and were almost absent in atherosclerosis . 
load dependence of left ventricular diastolic pressure-volume relations during short-term coronary artery occlusion . we evaluated the effect of altered loading conditions on left ventricular ( lv ) diastolic pressure-volume relations during acute coronary artery occlusion that was produced by inflation of an intracoronary balloon . open-chest anesthetized dogs ( n = 18 ) were instrumented so that lv pressure ( micromanometer ) and lv volume ( conductance ) could be measured without disturbing the pericardium . the effects of brief periods of occlusion ( 1-2 minutes ) were assessed under steady-state conditions before and after dextran infusion with the pericardium present and absent and during vena caval occlusion . under steady-state conditions before dextran infusion with the pericardium removed , at an lv end-diastolic pressure ( edp ) of 8.4 + / - 1.4 mm hg , occlusion resulted in a rightward shift in the diastolic portion of the lv pressure-volume loop ( delta lvedp , 2.7 + / - 2.3 mm hg ; delta lvedv , 6.3 + / - 4.7 ml , both p less than 0.05 versus control ) . after dextran infusion ( lvedp , 20.9 + / - 6.0 mm hg ) , occlusion resulted in a rightward and upward shift in the diastolic portion of the lv pressure-volume loop ( delta lvedp , 5.8 + / - 4.4 mm hg ; delta lvedv , 4.2 + / - 3.0 ml , both p less than 0.05 versus control ) . at low cardiac volumes before dextran infusion , the intact pericardium did not affect the response to occlusion . by contrast , after dextran infusion in the presence of an intact pericardium , lvedp significantly increased ( delta , 6.4 + / - 3.6 mm hg , p less than 0.05 ) but lvdev did not ( delta , 0.7 + / - 1.5 ml , p = ns ) . there was a parallel upward shift in the diastolic portion of the lv pressure-volume loop that was eliminated by removal of the pericardium . thus , the change in lv diastolic pressure and volume during occlusion varied and depended on the baseline cardiac volume and presence of the pericardium . before dextran infusion with the pericardium present and absent , coronary artery occlusion did not alter the lv diastolic chamber stiffness parameter , which was calculated from the diastolic interval of an averaged steady-state beat ( 0.040 + / - 0.019 versus 0.036 + / - 0.015 mm hg/ml , p = ns ) . after dextran infusion with the pericardium present and absent , coronary artery occlusion increased the lv diastolic chamber stiffness parameter ( 0.057 + / - 0.034 and 0.074 + / - 0.034 mm hg/ml , both p less than 0.05 versus controls , respectively ) . vena caval occlusion eliminated the shifts in the diastolic portion of the lv pressure-volume loop with the pericardium present and absent . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
left ventricular diastolic dysfunction limits use of maximum systolic elastance as an index of contractile function . we tested the hypothesis that maximum systolic elastance ( emax ) fails to detect a decline in left ventricular ( lv ) contractile function when diastolic dysfunction is present . canine hearts were studied in an isolated blood-perfused heart apparatus ( isovolumic lv ) ; contractile dysfunction was produced by 60 or 90 minutes of global ischemia , followed by 90 minutes of reperfusion . nine normal hearts underwent 60 minutes of ischemia , and five underwent 90 minutes of ischemia . after the ischemia-reperfusion sequence , developed pressure , pressure-volume area , and myocardial atp level were significantly less than those at baseline in all 14 hearts . in the group undergoing 60 minutes of ischemia , lv diastolic pressure did not increase , whereas emax decreased from 5.2 + / - 2.5 to 2.9 + / - 1.4 mm hg/ml ( p less than 0.05 ) . in the group undergoing 90 minutes of ischemia , diastolic pressure increased ( from 10 + / - 2 to 37 + / - 20 mm hg , p less than 0.05 ) , and emax did not change significantly ( from 5.1 + / - 4.3 to 4.3 + / - 2.5 mm hg/ml ) . a second series of experiments was performed in 13 hearts with pressure-overload hypertrophy ( aortic-band model with echocardiography and catheterization studies before the ischemia-reperfusion protocol ) . five had evidence for pump failure , whereas eight remained compensated . after 60 minutes of ischemia and 90 minutes of reperfusion , developed pressure , pressure-volume area , and myocardial atp level were significantly less than those at baseline in all 13 hearts . in the group with compensated lv hypertrophy , lv diastolic pressure did not change , whereas emax decreased from 6.9 + / - 3.0 to 3.1 + / - 2.3 mm hg/ml ( p less than 0.05 ) . 
intra-arterial urokinase as the initial therapy for acutely ischemic lower limbs acute ischemia of the lower limb remains a significant risk to both life and limb . mortality rates of approximately 10-30 % and amputation rates of the same magnitude in the survivors are repeatedly reported despite advances in medical and surgical techniques . our experience , which utilized percutaneous intra-arterial thrombolysis as the initial treatment in 72 instances ( 63 patients ) , has resulted in a markedly lower mortality rate of 1.6 % and a lower amputation rate of 8.5 % in the survivors . careful categorization by clinical degree of ischemia indicates that 82 % of the cases were either threatened or irreversible limb ischemia . the initial treatment with thrombolysis did not preclude subsequent prompt surgical treatment when necessary ; in these cases , thrombolysis promoted improved surgical results ( 100 % ) when it was successful . it markedly reduced the need for urgent surgery , usually simplified the subsequent surgical approach , diminished the overall need for surgery , and often accomplished a successful outcome alone ( 31 % ) . significant bleeding was not noted during subsequent surgical procedures and was noted in only 2.8 % of the cases . confirmation of these results and further improvements in technique might justify the use of an initially high-dose urokinase transcatheter infusion regimen as the initial treatment of choice for acute lower-limb ischemia . 
the natural history of peripheral vascular disease . implications for its management . the durability and the eventual complication rate of endovascular therapy ( percutaneous transluminal angioplasty , laser-assisted angioplasty , and atherectomy ) are not yet entirely clear , especially with respect to the treatment of atherosclerotic lesions in the femoropopliteal or distal arterial segments . therefore , the indications for its use have not been firmly established and must take into consideration the natural history of the occlusive disease itself . although some type of procedural intervention clearly is warranted in the presence of ischemic rest pain or tissue necrosis , intermittent claudication is the only complaint in approximately 70 % of patients who present with either aortoiliac or femoropopliteal involvement . most nondiabetic patients experience substantial symptomatic improvement with a daily exercise program , and their long-term risks for either abrupt deterioration ( 20-25 % ) or amputation ( less than 10 % ) are relatively low . in comparison , the 5-year mortality rate ranges from 20-40 % even in claudicants , and as many as 40 % of those with clinical indications of associated coronary artery disease have been shown angiographically to be candidates for myocardial revascularization . these observations suggest that traditional indications for surgical treatment ( truly disabling claudication and/or limb salvage ) also should be applied to endovascular therapy until its success is confirmed beyond speculation , and that incidental coronary disease deserves particular attention in patients with lower extremity ischemia . 
intravascular stents . general principles and status of lower-extremity arterial applications . the two major types of intravascular stents are balloon expandable and self-expanding . many animal and , more recently , clinical studies have begun to delineate the real and potential roles of stents . although the ideal intravascular stent does not exist , it is possible to identify characteristics of the hypothetical ideal stent . iliac and femoropopliteal arterial applications of metallic stents are reviewed . stents have proved useful in postangioplasty elastic recoil , in some cases of postangioplasty restenosis , and in angioplasty-induced dissection . their role in primary angioplasty procedures is still uncertain , although in iliac angioplasty the immediate hemodynamic effects of angioplasty plus stenting are superior to those of angioplasty alone . it is clear that metallic stents have not solved the problem of postangioplasty restenosis , as restenosis still occurs in a significant number of cases . this problem is particularly evident in the femoropopliteal stent procedures , in which angiographic restenosis ( more than 50 % single diameter stenosis ) at 6 months after treatment has occurred in approximately 30 % of cases . the existence of poststenting restenosis , which often involves the stented segment , underscores the need for better drug regimens in angioplasty and for better understanding of the intimal fibrocellular proliferative response of the vessel wall to injury . although potentially very useful , biodegradable stents are still a dream whose realization will demand the development of better materials . 
impact of nonoperative therapy on the clinical management of peripheral arterial disease . nonoperative therapy includes conservative noninterventional modalities and the endovascular interventional modalities of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and a variety of laser systems and atherectomy devices . the role and impact of all nonoperative treatments are considered in the perspectives of the natural history of lower-extremity arteriosclerosis and its present surgical ( operative ) treatment . nonoperative treatments may replace and/or facilitate surgical treatment in operative candidates . nonoperative methods may also justify treatment in patients who can not or should not be subjected to surgery . facts and opinions relating to these uses of nonoperative treatments are presented , and the qualifications and credentialing of individuals who should be treating patients with lower-extremity ischemia resulting from peripheral arteriosclerosis are discussed . 
diagnosis and evaluation of renovascular hypertension . indications for therapy . renovascular hypertension is caused by two distinct conditions with different causes , fibromuscular dysplasia and atheroma . diagnosis of the former is both simpler and more rewarding , whereas atheromatous lesions of the renal artery may be secondary to essential hypertension . it is therefore important to establish existence of functional renal ischemia as well as an anatomical lesion . universal screening of all hypertensive patients is not recommended because of the relatively low prevalence of the disease and insufficient accuracy of available screening tests . when renovascular hypertension is clinically suspected , an oral captopril test is the most reliable office screening test . after this , digital subtraction angiography with renal vein renins or captopril renography are appropriate steps . however , the latter procedure , while promising , requires further evaluation . duplex scanning of the renal arteries also comes into this category . arteriography is done last , so that if renal ischemia is indicated , angioplasty can be attempted at the same time as arteriography . 
results and complications of angioplasty in fibromuscular disease . percutaneous transluminal angioplasty ( pta ) was used to treat 66 patients with 85 renal artery stenoses due to fibromuscular dysplasia . the hypertension was refractory to medical management in 46 patients , and the initial success rate was 100 % . clinical follow-up has been obtained in all patients , who were followed for as long as 121 months . the recurrence rates were 8 % of lesions and 10 % of patients . cumulative patency rate predicted for 10 years was 87.07 % . the mean systolic pressure decreased by 52 mm hg and the mean diastolic pressure decreased by 35 mm hg in response to treatment . twenty-six patients ( 39 % ) were cured , 39 ( 59 % ) were classified as improved , and one ( 2 % ) did not respond to pta . fourteen of the patients also had elevated blood urea nitrogen and creatinine levels . renal function was improved in 86 % of the patients and stabilized in 14 % of the patients . analysis of the long-term results suggests that pta should be the initial treatment for choice of patients with fibromuscular dysplasia in the renal arteries . 
management of renovascular disease . a surgical perspective . the role of surgical revascularization in the management of patients with renal artery disease has changed in recent years . this has occurred due to the advent of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty as an effective method of treatment for certain patients , improved results of surgical revascularization in older patients with atherosclerosis , an enhanced appreciation of advanced atherosclerotic renal artery disease as a correctable cause of renal failure , and the development of more effective surgical techniques for patients with severe aortic atherosclerosis and branch renal artery disease . surgical revascularization is currently the treatment of choice for patients with branch renal artery disease , ostial atherosclerotic renal artery disease , a renal artery aneurysm , and patients in whom renal percutaneous transluminal angioplasty has been unsuccessful . excellent clinical results continue to be achieved with surgical revascularization in properly selected patients . 
optimum results of the surgical treatment of carotid territory ischemia . continuing controversy over the role of carotid endarterectomy in stroke prevention is based largely on reports in which high perioperative morbidity and mortality rates obviate possible long-term benefit from the procedure . the purpose of this review is to examine optimal results of carotid surgery in order to describe the potential for the procedure in stroke prevention . optimal surgical results are compared with optimal medical results in the therapy of symptomatic patients and with optimal nonsurgical results in the therapy of asymptomatic patients . factors common to series with excellent results , such as patient selection and operative technique , are examined , and problems such as recurrent carotid stenosis and coexisting coronary disease , which continue to plague even the best surgical series , are discussed . 
morphological observations late ( greater than 30 days ) after clinically successful coronary balloon angioplasty . this report describes clinical , morphological , and histological findings late ( 1.6-24 .1 months [ average , 8.2 months ] ) after clinically successful coronary balloon angioplasty in 20 necropsied patients with coronary angioplasty restenosis . clinical evidence of restenosis occurred in 14 ( 70 % ) of patients , including six patients with sudden coronary death . of the 20 patients , 14 ( 70 % ) had cardiac causes of death and six ( 30 % ) had noncardiac causes of death . two major subgroups of histological findings were observed : 1 ) intimal proliferation ( 60 % ) and 2 ) atherosclerotic plaques only . of the eight sites with atherosclerotic plaques only , six were eccentric lesions and two were concentric lesions . no morphological evidence of previous angioplasty injury ( cracks , breaks , or tears ) was observed in the eight patients with atherosclerotic plaques only . proposed mechanisms for the development of intimal proliferation involve the reaction of smooth muscle cells and platelets , whereas elastic recoil of overstretched eccentric or concentric atherosclerotic lesions represents the most likely explanation for the findings in the latter subgroup . on the basis of these morphological findings at angioplasty restenosis sites , specific treatment strategies for coronary artery balloon angioplasty restenosis are proposed . 
clinical and anatomical considerations for surgery in aortoiliac disease and results of surgical treatment . a variety of surgical procedures are available for the treatment of occlusive disease involving the aorta and iliac arteries . use of the most appropriate operation in each patient , determined principally by disease location and patient risk , can provide highly effective relief of disabling claudication or limb-threatening ischemia with low morbidity and mortality rates . the excellent , durable results of current surgical practice should serve as the standard with which newer treatment modalities must be compared . 
results and complications of angioplasty in aortoiliac disease percutaneous transluminal angioplasty was used to treat 340 aortoiliac lesions in 200 patients who were followed for as long as 90 months ( mean , 28.7 months ; median , 23 months ) . the initial success rate was 94.7 % for lesions and 93.0 % for patients . the indications for percutaneous transluminal angioplasty included claudication in 117 patients ( 58.5 % ) , rest pain or ischemic night pain in 47 ( 23.5 % ) , limb salvage in 33 ( 16.5 % ) , and aiding in wound healing in three ( 1.5 % ) . in the series , 70 % of the patients had two or more cardiovascular risk factors . angioplasty was initially unsuccessful in 14 patients , and 10 patients were lost to follow-up . follow-up was obtained in 176 patients . the long-term results were analyzed using the life table method to determine cumulative patency . fourteen patients were considered failures because of recurrent disease or symptoms . the projected 7.5-year cumulative patency rate was 85 % . when the response to redilatation was considered , the projected 7.5-year cumulative patency rate was 92 % . the results indicate that percutaneous transluminal angioplasty can successfully correct aortoiliac lesions and provide a long-term benefit for as long as 7.5 years . 
standards for evaluating results of interventional therapy for peripheral vascular disease . uniform standards for evaluating and reporting the results of therapeutic interventions for peripheral vascular disease are clearly needed . they are already established for vascular surgery , as represented by several reports by svs/iscvs committees , but they are not always followed by vascular surgeons and have been largely ignored by other vascular interventionists . in this article , the major problematic reporting practices are discussed and illustrated , and 14 recommendations are advanced to deal with them . they are intended to provide precise definitions , objective criteria of success or failure , standardized severity gradation schemes for peripheral vascular disease and its risk factors , and proper procedures for reporting the outcome of all forms of therapeutic intervention . until these or some other agreed upon reporting standards are accepted and followed , the literature on peripheral vascular disease and its management will continue to be a source of confusion rather than enlightenment . 
clinical and anatomic considerations for surgery in femoropopliteal disease and the results of surgery . from 1980 to 1988 we performed 288 femoropopliteal bypass operations in 231 patients at the oregon health sciences university . the indication for the procedure was claudication in 31 % and the relief of limb-threatening ischemia in 64 % . operative mortality occurred after four of these operations ( 1.4 % ) , including three deaths from myocardial infarction and one death from stroke . the femoropopliteal bypass patients were divided into groups for patency analysis , including those undergoing bypass surgery with a good quality greater saphenous vein versus alternate bypass conduits and patients undergoing primary limb bypass versus those undergoing repeat bypass after prior bypass failure . our overall primary graft patency for all femoropopliteal grafts was 79 % at 5 years . patients undergoing bypass with a good quality greater saphenous vein had primary graft patency of 85 % at 5 years . patients undergoing bypass using a conduit other than greater saphenous vein had a 5-year patency of 73 % . patients undergoing repeat bypass after a prior failed bypass had a 5-year patency of 57 % . 
femoropopliteal angioplasty . factors influencing long-term success . prospective data was recorded on 217 percutaneous transluminal angioplasty ( pta ) procedures performed in the superficial femoral and popliteal arteries over an 8-year period . after the initial procedure , patients were followed with serial noninvasive studies and , in 71 patients , repeat angiography . the mean follow-up period was 7 years ( range , 2-11 years ) . standard life-table survival analysis was used to assess the factors potentially affecting long-term outcome . excluding an initial technical failure rate of 10 % , overall patencies at 1 , 3 , and 5 years were 81 % , 61 % , and 58 % , respectively . after the first year , the prognosis ( i.e. , failure rate ) appears to be linear over the long term ( i.e. , up to 10 years ) . factors negatively influencing long-term patency include the presence of diabetes mellitus , diffuse atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease , or threatened limb loss . technical factors correlated with failure include lesion length , moderate eccentricity , and a poor post-pta appearance . 
clinical and anatomic considerations for surgery in tibial disease and the results of surgery . bypass vein grafts to the infrapopliteal arteries now achieve a 5-year cumulative patency equivalent to that of vein grafts to the popliteal arteries . the technique of in situ vein grafting to the tibial arteries is described and the results are presented . the 5-year cumulative patency for such bypasses and the 5-year limb salvage in the same patients have both been approximately 80 % . these results coupled with those reported from other centers that have sizable experience in tibial artery reconstruction suggest that there has been real progress over the past decade in the salvage of lower extremities in patients with far advanced peripheral vascular disease through the use of autogenous venous bypass grafts . 
clinical and anatomical considerations for nonoperative therapy in tibial disease and the results of angioplasty . for a 6-year period , 96 patients had 146 below-knee angioplasties . there were 31 total occlusions and 95 multiple stenoses . all patients had distal ischemia , and 40 % had gangrene . the primary success rate was 97 % , and the 2-year limb salvage rate was 83 % . the ankle/brachial index increased from a mean of 0.25 before the procedure to 0.62 afterward . at 2 years ( 35 patients ) , the mean ankle/brachial index was 0.55 . for the same period , 320 femorodistal bypasses were performed . the results of angioplasty are comparable to those of surgery , but angioplasty is only suitable in about 20-30 % of patients presenting with isolated tibial disease . suitable lesions are five or fewer stenoses and occlusions 5 cm or less in length . 
hot-tip laser . results and complications . the hot tip laser system for atheroablation has been used since mid-1984 as a device for broadening the indications for and extending the applicability of angioplasty in the management of lower-extremity atherosclerosis . it has been a controversial device . although the system demonstrates that it can occasionally be useful for the management of occlusive as opposed to stenotic disease of the infrainguinal arteries , a close examination of the published data fails to demonstrate a consistent improvement in either the primary success or long-term patency rates for thermal energy applied to atheroma for recanalization of the lower extremity arteries . 
efficacy of thrombolysis in infrainguinal bypass grafts . the initial outcome of a consecutive series of 43 intra-arterial urokinase infusions for thrombosed infrainguinal grafts in 37 patients was analyzed . there was an 88 % ( 38/43 ) technical success rate ( complete clot lysis ) and a 74 % ( 32/43 ) clinical success rate . complications occurred in 10 patients ( 23 % ) and were related to bleeding in four patients ( 9 % ) . patient age , graft age , location , material , and the duration of occlusion did not significantly influence the initial outcome , although there was a trend toward a higher bleeding complication rate among grafts less than or equal to 1 month of age at the time of thrombolysis . a second group of 43 infrainguinal grafts successfully recanalized using regional infusions of thrombolytic agents were followed for long-term patency . this group included 32 grafts successfully treated with urokinase and 11 grafts recanalized with streptokinase . by life-table analysis there was a 55.6 % 1-year patency , which fell to 42.4 % at 4 years . vein grafts had significantly ( p = 0.01 ) better long-term patency than prosthetic grafts ( 69.3 % versus 28.6 % at 30 months ) . grafts with flow-limiting lesions identified and corrected by angioplasty or surgery also had significantly ( p = 0.01 ) better long-term patency than those without such lesions ( 79.0 % versus 9.8 % at 2 years ) . based on the results of our study compared with a survey of long-term results following secondary surgical procedures for thrombosed infrainguinal grafts , thrombolysis can be recommended in several circumstances . thrombolysis is indicated for thrombosed vein grafts or when thrombus is present in distal runoff vessels . thrombosed prosthetic grafts should be replaced by autogenous vein grafts whenever possible . 
the role of lasers in hemorrhoidectomy . eighty-eight patients who received treatment for hemorrhoids were randomized into two groups . group a received the nd-yag laser phototherapy for internal hemorrhoid combined with the co2 laser for external hemorrhoid . group b was treated with closed ferguson hemorrhoidectomy . the need of narcotic injections for pain relief was 11 percent in group a vs. 56 percent in group b ( p less than 0.001 ) . the incidence of postoperative urinary retention was 7 percent in group a , vs. 39 percent in group b ( p less than 0.05 ) . no enema was required postoperatively in group a , vs. 9 percent in group b ; 84 percent of the patients in group a were discharged on the second postoperative day , vs. 83 percent of the patients in group b discharged on the fifth postoperative day . the cost was 20 percent less in the former group . the overall complications in both groups were insignificant in difference , except prolonged wound healing in group a was noted . one year follow-up showed satisfactory results . laser treatment is considered one of the alternatives to conventional treatment , but the surgeon needs to be aware of laser hazards . 
treatment of obstructive pneumatosis coli with endoscopic sclerotherapy : report of a case . the case of an 86-year-old man with cardiac and pulmonary failure , in whom pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis caused segmental obstruction of the sigmoid colon is described . the patient was treated with endoscopic puncture and sclerotherapy of the cyst walls in four sessions , giving endoscopic and radiologic regress of the lesions and symptomatic relief . 
the renally compromised older hypertensive : therapeutic considerations . although the slow progression of renal insufficiency caused by aging does not usually reach the clinical disease level , nephron loss may be accelerated by the concomitant presence of hypertension and renal artery atherosclerosis . treatment of hypertension and correction of other risk factors promoting atherosclerosis is appropriate in the elderly . consideration should be given to a search for reversible causes of renal functional deterioration in elderly patients , particularly in those with increasingly refractory hypertension . in the uncomplicated elderly hypertensive , renal function appears to be adequately preserved if blood pressure is well controlled , although there may be a subset in whom factors other than blood pressure itself , such as glomerular hemodynamic disturbances , promote progressive renal dysfunction . 
sedation for upper gastrointestinal endoscopy : results of a nationwide survey . a postal questionnaire inquiring about routine sedation and premedication practice for upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was sent to 1048 doctors . of 665 appropriate returns , 81 % were from consultant physicians and surgeons . most endoscopists ( 90 % ) reported using an intravenous benzodiazepine for at least three quarters of endoscopies and 54 % of physicians and 69 % of surgeons always did so . midazolam was the intravenous sedative used by a third of all respondents and 13 % also used an additional intravenous agent , usually pethidine . over the previous two years a total of 119 respiratory arrests , 37 cardiac arrests , and 52 deaths were identified . adverse outcomes were reported more frequently by consultant physicians , by those who ' titrated ' the intravenous sedative , and by those who used an additional intravenous agent , but were reported equally frequently by endoscopists using midazolam and endoscopists using diazepam . there is an urgent need for a prospective study to identify the circumstances and risk factors associated with adverse outcomes related to endoscopy . 
prevention of hypertension and vascular changes by captopril treatment . treatment of female spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shr ) and control wistar-kyoto ( wky ) rats with captopril was carried out by the addition of the drug in the drinking water throughout pregnancy and lactation and after weaning . at 28 weeks of age , average systolic blood pressure of treated shr was 113 + / - 3 mm hg , which was below that of control shr ( 188 + / - 3 mm hg ) and wky rats ( 124 + / - 3 mm hg ) . body weight and heart rate of the shr were not affected by the treatment . tissue level of catecholamines was increased by captopril treatment in the superior cervical ganglia but remained unchanged in the plasma , heart , mesenteric arteries , and the adrenal glands of both shr and wky rats . left ventricular weight , wall thickness , and internal diameter of the left ventricle in the shr were reduced by the treatment . morphometric measurements of the mesenteric arteries showed that vascular alterations present in the control shr were prevented by the treatment . in the superior mesenteric artery and large mesenteric artery , smaller lumen size at maximal relaxation found in the control shr was normalized to the level of the wky rats . hypertrophy of the medial wall in the superior mesenteric , large and small mesenteric arteries , and an increase in the number of smooth muscle cell layers in the large mesenteric artery of the shr were prevented by the treatment . perfusion study of the mesenteric vascular bed showed that reactivity of these vessels to norepinephrine was reduced , and sensitivity to norepinephrine ( as determined by the effective dose that causes 50 % of maximal response ) was increased in the shr by captopril treatment . sensitivity of the tail artery in response to norepinephrine was not altered by the treatment . we conclude that long-term treatment with captopril of shr before and after birth prevented the development of hypertension , structural and functional alterations of the mesenteric arteries , and cardiac hypertrophy . 
isolation of preferentially expressed genes in the kidneys of hypertensive rats . by differential hybridization , three complementary dnas designated as s3 , s2 , and sa were isolated , and the corresponding messenger rnas ( mrnas ) were differentially expressed between the kidneys of spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shr ) and normotensive wistar-kyoto ( wky ) rats . s3 is identical to cytochrome p450 iv a2 . sa encoded a protein of 546 amino acid residues , and its carboxyl terminal region had a slight homology to luciferase . no homologous sequence has been reported in s2 sequences . s3 mrna was about four times more abundantly expressed in the kidneys of 28-day-old shr than in those of age-matched wky rats , but there was no difference at age 16 weeks . a low nacl diet positively modulated the expression of the s3 gene . s2 mrna was almost undetectable in the kidneys of 28-day-old wky rats but was clearly detected in those of age-matched shr . the expression level of s2 mrna in the livers of 16-week-old shr was about five times higher than that of age-matched wky rats . the expression of s2 mrna in the livers was modulated by dietary nacl and captopril . sa mrna was more than 10 times more abundantly expressed in the kidneys of shr than in those of wky rats from age 4 weeks . with the administration of captopril , the expressions of sa mrna in the livers of shr were positively modulated . because these three genes are not only differentially expressed between shr and wky rats but also related to sodium metabolism or blood pressure control , the identification of these genes may provide important probes to examine the mechanisms of hypertension . 
impaired insulin action on skeletal muscle metabolism in essential hypertension . previous studies have shown that essential hypertension is frequently associated with insulin resistance . the tissues responsible for this metabolic alteration have not been defined . we tested the hypothesis that skeletal muscle is the site of insulin resistance of essential hypertension with the use of the perfused forearm technique . eight hypertensive ( age 42 + / - 3 years , body mass index 27 + / - 1 kg/m2 , intra-arterial mean blood pressure 126 + / - 4 mm hg ) and seven normotensive ( age 48 + / - 3 years , body mass index 26 + / - 1 kg/m2 , mean blood pressure 95 + / - 4 mm hg ) male volunteers were studied . after glucose ingestion ( 40 g/m2 ) , normal glucose tolerance in the patients was maintained at the expense of a heightened plasma insulin response , suggesting the presence of insulin resistance . during graded , local ( intra-arterial ) hyperinsulinemia encompassing the physiological range ( 12-120 milliunits/l ) , glucose uptake by forearm tissues was significantly ( p less than 0.03 ) reduced in the hypertensive subjects as compared with the controls at each of five insulin steps , by 43 % on the average . in addition , forearm lactate and pyruvate release were significantly less stimulated in the hypertensive than in the normotensive group ( p less than 0.01 for both ) , presumably as a consequence of the decreased glucose influx . forearm exchange of oxygen , carbon dioxide , lipid substrates ( free fatty acids , glycerol , and beta-hydroxybutyrate ) , and potassium were similar in the hypertensive and normotensive groups in the basal state . insulin had no effect on oxygen consumption , carbon dioxide production , and respiratory quotient in either study group , whereas it stimulated free fatty acids , glycerol , and potassium uptake to the same extent in the hypertensive and normotensive groups . 
nicotine impairs reflex renal nerve and respiratory activity in deoxycorticosterone acetate-salt rats . smoking exacerbates the increase in arterial pressure in hypertension . the effect of nicotine on the baroreceptor-mediated reflex responses of renal nerve activity ( rna ) , heart rate , and respiratory activity ( minute diaphragmatic activity [ mda ] ) after bolus injections of phenylephrine was compared in deoxycorticosterone acetate ( doca ) - salt sensitive and normotensive rats . osmotic minipumps that dispensed either nicotine ( 2.4 mg/kg/day ) or saline were implanted in doca and normotensive rats for 18 days . anesthetized doca-nicotine , doca-saline , control-nicotine , and control-saline rats had mean arterial pressures ( map ) of 117 + / - 3 , 110 + / - 9 , 90 + / - 3 , and 89 + / - 5 mm hg , respectively . nicotine decreased the sensitivity ( p less than 0.05 ) of baroreceptor reflex control of rna ( % delta rna/delta map ) in the doca-nicotine rats ( -0.92 + / - 0.08 ) compared with the doca-saline ( -1.44 + / - 0.16 ) , control-nicotine ( -1.45 + / - 0.08 ) , or control-saline ( -1.45 + / - 0.21 ) rats . the reflex decrease in respiratory activity ( % delta mda/delta map x 100 ) was impaired ( p less than 0.01 ) in both control-nicotine ( -24.5 + / - 3.3 ) and doca-nicotine ( -18.2 + / - 4.6 ) rats compared with control-saline ( -59.2 + / - 9.1 ) and doca-saline ( -52.5 + / - 9.9 ) rats . the reflex decrease in heart rate ( absolute delta hr/delta map ) in both doca-nicotine ( 1.56 + / - 0.17 ) and control-nicotine ( 1.54 + / - 0.24 ) rats was augmented compared with doca-saline and control-saline rats ( 0.91 + / - 0.12 and 0.97 + / - 0.14 ) . 
nephrotoxicity of allopurinol is enhanced in experimental hypertension . hyperuricemia is present in 20-40 % of pediatric and adult patients with essential hypertension . this metabolic abnormality may represent an additional risk factor for the development of cardiovascular disease . therefore , we performed the following studies to determine 1 ) whether hyperuricemia is more prevalent in the spontaneously hypertensive rat ( shr ) and 2 ) whether allopurinol treatment has a beneficial effect on the development of hypertension in this strain , based on its capacity to lower the serum uric acid concentration and to act as an antioxidant agent . shr and control wistar-kyoto ( wky ) rats were assigned to two groups , one given tap water to drink and the other provided water containing allopurinol ( 400 mg/l ) to furnish an approximate daily dose equal to 100 mg/kg body wt . this treatment was maintained for 15 weeks . the serum uric acid levels were similar in untreated shr and wky rats ( 1.85 + / - 0.10 versus 1.66 + / - 0.14 mg/dl ; p = 0.28 ) . in the control wky rat strain , allopurinol therapy did not adversely affect weight gain or hematocrit and did not cause an increase in mortality . it resulted in a moderate decrement in kidney function ( creatinine clearance : allopurinol-treated group 0.32 + / - 0.09 versus control group 0.46 + / - 0.04 ml/min/100 g body wt , in conjunction with mild-to-moderate tubulointerstitial inflammation ( allopurinol-treated group 0.9 + / - 0.4 versus control group 0 ) . 
effect of drug and diet treatment of mild hypertension on diastolic blood pressure . the taim research group . the trial of antihypertensive interventions and management is a multicenter randomized trial designed to examine the diastolic blood pressure response of various combinations of pharmacological and dietary interventions in the treatment of mild hypertension ( diastolic blood pressure 90-100 mm hg ) . eight hundred and seventy-eight participants at 110-160 % of ideal weight were randomly allocated to nine drug/diet treatment groups receiving either a placebo , chlorthalidone ( 25 mg ) , or atenolol ( 50 mg ) , combined with a usual , a weight loss , or a low sodium/high potassium diet . the primary outcome was diastolic blood pressure change from baseline to 6 months . seven hundred and eighty-seven participants had follow-up data . the mean baseline diastolic blood pressure was 93.8 mm hg ; 55.9 % of the participants were male , and the weight loss diet group lost an average of 4.7 kg . multiple comparisons were accounted for in the analysis . a significantly greater lowering of diastolic blood pressure ( 12.4 mm hg ) was achieved in the atenolol group compared with either the low sodium/high potassium diet group ( 7.9 mm hg , p = 0.001 ) or weight loss group ( 8.8 mm hg , p = 0.006 ) . adding weight loss to chlorthalidone significantly enhanced blood pressure lowering ( 15.1 mm hg ) when compared with the diuretic alone ( 10.8 mm hg , p = 0.002 ) , but adding a low sodium/high potassium diet ( 12.2 mm hg , p = 0.029 ) did not . in the short-term treatment of mild hypertension where diastolic blood pressure is the sole consideration , drugs outperform diet , and weight loss is beneficial , especially with diuretics . 
characterization of auscultatory gaps with wideband external pulse recording . three types of auscultatory gaps , called g1 , g2 , and g3 , that occur during blood pressure measurement have been identified by using wideband external pulse recording . we have previously shown that the wideband external pulse recorded during cuff deflation can be separated into three components ( k1 , k2 , and k3 ) , one of which ( k2 ) is closely related to the korotkoff sound . g1 occurs with cuff pressure just below systolic and is characterized by the presence of k1 and k2 with intermittent disappearance of k2 . g1 gaps are related to a phasic decrease of arterial ( systolic ) pressure and were exhibited by 13 of 60 hypertensive patients . g2 gaps are related to a phasic increase of arterial ( diastolic ) pressure , occur when cuff pressure is just above diastolic , and are characterized by the presence of k1 , k2 , and k3 with intermittent disappearance of k2 . seven of 60 hypertensive patients exhibited a g2 gap . g3 gaps occur with cuff pressure between systolic and diastolic and are characterized by an underdeveloped or blunted k2 signal . three of 60 hypertensive patients exhibited a g3 gap . the identification of auscultatory gaps in relation to the wideband external pulse provides a qualitative measure of their existence , can be of significant value in better understanding aspects of the auscultatory blood pressure measurement technique , and provides an objective basis with which to better understand the mechanisms that cause them . 
myocardial protein turnover in patients with coronary artery disease . effect of branched chain amino acid infusion . the regulation of protein metabolism in the human heart has not previously been studied . in 10 postabsorptive patients with coronary artery disease , heart protein synthesis and degradation were estimated simultaneously from the extraction of intravenously infused l - [ ring-2 ,6 -3 h ] phenylalanine ( phe ) and the dilution of its specific activity across the heart at isotopic steady state . we subsequently examined the effect of branched chain amino acid ( bcaa ) infusion on heart protein turnover and on the myocardial balance of amino acids and branched chain ketoacids ( bcka ) in these patients . in the postabsorptive state , there was a net release of phenylalanine ( arterial-cardiac venous [ phe ] = -1.71 + / - 0.32 nmol/ml , p less than 0.001 ; balance = -116 + / - 21 nmol phe/min , p less than 0.001 ) , reflecting protein degradation ( 142 + / - 40 nmol phe/min ) in excess of synthesis ( 24 + / - 42 nmol phe/min ) and net myocardial protein catabolism . during bcaa infusion , protein synthesis increased to equal the degradation rate ( 106 + / - 24 and 106 + / - 28 nmol phe/min , respectively ) and the phenylalanine balance shifted ( p = 0.01 ) from negative to neutral ( arterial-cardiac venous [ phe ] = 0.07 + / - 0.36 nmol/ml ; balance = 2 + / - 25 nmol phe/min ) . bcaa infusion stimulated the myocardial uptake of both bcaa ( p less than 0.005 ) and their ketoacid conjugates ( p less than 0.001 ) in proportion to their circulating concentrations . net uptake of the bcaa greatly exceeded that of other essential amino acids suggesting a role for bcaa and bcka as metabolic fuels . plasma insulin levels , cardiac double product , coronary blood flow , and myocardial oxygen consumption were unchanged . these results demonstrate that the myocardium of postabsorptive humans is in negative protein balance and indicate a primary anabolic effect of bcaa on the human heart . 
sclerotherapy of varicose and telangiectatic leg veins . minimal sclerosant concentration of hypertonic saline and its relationship to vessel diameter the author reports the results of a double-blind , paired-comparison study using saline sclerosant plus or minus heparin additive . the study was designed to elucidate the effects of increasing concentrations of hypertonic saline with regard to vessel diameter , clinical efficacy , complications , and discomfort . six hundred women with bilaterally symmetrical starburst telangiectasias or varicose veins were entered into the study . sodium chloride 11.7 % appeared to be the minimal sclerosant concentration of saline that produced the most effective vein sclerosis of vessels of less than 8 mm in diameter , while producing the least morbidity . the optimal concentration of the sclerosant may vary with the diameter of the vessels under therapeutic consideration . 
natural history of moderate aortic stenosis . the natural history of severe , symptomatic aortic stenosis has been well documented . however , the natural history of moderate aortic stenosis remains poorly understood . therefore , a group of 66 patients was identified who had a diagnosis of moderate aortic stenosis at the time of cardiac catheterization ( aortic valve area 0.7 to 1.2 cm2 ) and who did not have surgical therapy during the 1st 180 days after cardiac catheterization . during a mean follow-up period of 35 months , 14 patients died of causes attributed to aortic stenosis and 21 underwent aortic valve replacement . the estimated probability for remaining free of any complication of aortic stenosis at the end of the first 4 years was 59 % . symptomatic patients with decreased ejection fraction or hemodynamic evidence of left ventricular decompensation were at greater risk for these complications . it is concluded that patients with moderate aortic stenosis are at significant risk for the development of complications . 
clinical and electrophysiologic determinants , treatment and survival of patients with sustained malignant ventricular tachyarrhythmias occurring late after myocardial infarction to assess the clinical and electrophysiologic determinants , treatment and survival of patients with sustained malignant ventricular tachyarrhythmias late after myocardial infarction , a total of 108 patients ( mean age 61 + / - 10 years ) were studied . thirty-two patients ( group i ) had sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias 8 to 60 days ( mean 13 + / - 9 ) after acute myocardial infarction . the remaining 76 patients ( group ii ) , who served as a control group , had no sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias less than or equal to 60 days after infarction . the most significant independent determinants of sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias late after infarction were the presence of late potentials ( chi square = 16.07 , p = 0.0001 ) , defined as an abnormal signal-averaged qrs complex in association with an abnormal root-mean-square voltage in the terminal 40 ms of the qrs complex , and an abnormal ejection fraction of less than 40 % ( chi square = 10.09 , p = 0.001 ) . sustained ventricular tachycardia was induced in 27 ( 96 % ) of 28 group i patients . among the 32 patients in group i , antitachycardia therapy included antiarrhythmic drug therapy as the sole preventive measure in 14 ( 44 % ) ; map-guided surgery or coronary artery bypass surgery , or both , in 14 ( 44 % ) and the automatic cardioverter-defibrillator in 4 ( 12 % ) . the arrhythmias were rendered noninducible in 83 % of patients after map-guided surgery and in 41 % after drug therapy . during a follow-up period of 20 + / - 14 months , five group i patients ( 15 % ) had an arrhythmic event and four ( 9.3 % ) had a cardiac-related death . all five patients who had an arrhythmic event were receiving antiarrhythmic drug therapy . 
effect of h1 receptor stimulation on coronary artery diameter in patients with variant angina : comparison with effect of acetylcholine it has been suggested that histamine is involved in the pathogenesis of coronary spasm but its exact role remains unclear . h1 receptor stimulation of the coronary artery was performed with a selective intracoronary infusion of histamine ( 2 micrograms/min ) in 21 patients with variant angina after blockade of the h2 receptor with cimetidine ( 25 mg/kg ) and its effect on the coronary artery diameter was examined . intracoronary injection of acetylcholine was also performed in 19 of the 21 patients . ergonovine ( 0.2 mg ) was intravenously administered in one patient . the coronary artery diameter was measured with cinevideodensitometric analysis . a mean plasma histamine concentration in the coronary sinus increased from 4 x 10 ( -9 ) to 7 x 10 ( -8 ) m 5 min after histamine infusion into the left coronary artery ( n = 18 ) . coronary spasm was induced in 6 patients ( 29 % ) with histamine , in 18 ( 95 % ) with acetylcholine and in 1 with ergonovine . the effect of histamine on the luminal diameter was analyzed at the site of spasm in the 26 coronary arteries in which spasm was induced by acetylcholine or ergonovine . of the 20 coronary arteries with a normal arteriogram or a fixed stenosis less than or equal to 50 % of luminal diameter , histamine decreased the diameter in 4 , increased it in 14 ( 70 % ) and caused no change in 2 ; of the 6 coronary arteries with a fixed stenosis greater than or equal to 75 % , histamine decreased the diameter in 5 and increased it in 1 . in the coronary arteries in which spasm was not induced by either acetylcholine or ergonovine , histamine increased the diameter , especially in those without advanced atherosclerosis . 
percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty in surgical high risk patients . among 126 consecutive patients undergoing percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty , 34 were judged to be at high risk for surgery on the basis of age greater than 70 years ( n = 13 ) , new york heart association functional class iv ( n = 11 ) , ejection fraction less than or equal to 35 % ( n = 3 ) , severe pulmonary hypertension ( n = 7 ) , need for associated coronary bypass ( n = 4 ) or additional valve surgery ( n = 20 ) or severe pulmonary disease ( n = 3 ) . baseline features of the high risk group were substantially worse than those of the other patients : age ( 65 + / - 11 versus 49 + / - 12 years ; p = 0.0001 ) and echocardiographic score ( 9.4 + / - 1.8 versus 8.2 + / - 1.5 ; p = 0.005 ) were higher , whereas cardiac output ( 2.9 + / - 0.9 versus 4.1 + / - 1.2 liters/min ; p = 0.0001 ) and mitral valve area ( 0.9 + / - 0.4 versus 1.1 + / - 0.3 mm2 ; p = 0.002 ) were lower . three high risk patients experienced technical failures and three others had major complications . among the remaining 28 patients , 18 ( 65 % ) had a complete hemodynamic success , 4 ( 14 % ) an incomplete success and 6 ( 21 % ) hemodynamic failure . stepwise logistic regression analysis retained echocardiographic score as the only factor independently predictive of success . the percent increase in mitral valve area also correlated with echocardiographic score ( r = 0.51 , p less than 0.01 ) . 
the variable extent of jeopardized myocardium in patients with single vessel coronary artery disease : quantification by thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography to assess the extent of jeopardized myocardium in patients with single vessel coronary artery disease of variable severity and location , quantitative exercise thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography was performed in 158 consecutive patients with angiographically proved single vessel coronary artery disease . the extent of abnormal left ventricular perfusion was quantified from computer-generated polar maps of three-dimensional myocardial radioactivity . patients with only a moderate ( 51 % to 69 % ) stenosis tended to have a small perfusion defect irrespective of the coronary artery involved . whereas a perfusion defect measuring greater than or equal to 10 % of the left ventricle was found in 78 % of patients with no prior infarction and severe ( greater than or equal to 70 % ) stenosis , this was observed in only 24 % of patients with moderate stenosis . perfusion defect size increased with increasing severity of stenosis for the entire group without infarction and for those with left anterior descending , right and circumflex coronary artery stenosis . however , the correlation between stenosis severity and perfusion defect size was at best only modest ( r = 0.38 , p = 0.0001 ) . the left anterior descending artery was shown to be the most important of the three coronary arteries for providing left ventricular perfusion . proximal stenosis of this artery produced a perfusion defect approximately twice as large as that found in patients with a proximal right or circumflex artery stenosis . however , marked heterogeneity in perfusion defect size existed among all three vessels despite comparable stenosis severity . this was most apparent for the left anterior descending coronary artery , where mid vessel stenosis commonly produced a perfusion defect similar in size to that found in proximally stenosed vessels . 
primary angioplasty in myocardial infarction : assessment of improved myocardial perfusion with technetium-99m isonitrile . technetium-99m-hexakis-2-methoxy-2-isobutyl-isonitrile ( technetium-99m isonitrile ) is a new radiopharmaceutical compound that reflects myocardial perfusion . its kinetics , especially its lack of redistribution after intravenous administration , permits the assessment of changes in myocardial perfusion without delay of therapy . tomographic images at rest were obtained immediately and 6 to 10 days later in 17 consecutive patients undergoing successful primary angioplasty during their first transmural myocardial infarction . thirteen patients had anterior infarction . the initial ( acute ) defect size before angioplasty of 48 + / - 17 % of the left ventricle decreased significantly ( p less than 0.0001 ) to 29 + / - 19 % on the late scans . there was no correlation between the time to therapy and the reduction in defect size . twelve of the 17 patients , including 7 of the 11 patients treated after 4 h , demonstrated a definite reduction in the initial defect size . eight patients with angiographically proved persistent coronary occlusion underwent a similar imaging sequence . the initial defect size in this group remained unchanged on the late scans ( 24 + / - 16 % versus 26 + / - 18 % , p = ns ) . primary angioplasty is an effective approach toward salvaging myocardium ; comparison with thrombolytic drug therapy must await the results of controlled clinical trials . 
differentiating cardiomyopathy of coronary artery disease from nonischemic dilated cardiomyopathy utilizing positron emission tomography . to determine if imaging of blood flow ( using n-13 ammonia ) and glucose metabolism ( using f-18 2-deoxyglucose ) with positron emission tomography can distinguish cardiomyopathy of coronary artery disease from nonischemic dilated cardiomyopathy , 21 patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction who were evaluated for cardiac transplantation were studied . the origin of left ventricular dysfunction had been previously determined by coronary angiography to be ischemic ( 11 patients ) or nonischemic ( 10 patients ) . images were visually analyzed by three observers on a graded scale in seven left ventricular segments and revealed fewer defects in dilated cardiomyopathy compared with ischemic cardiomyopathy for n-13 ammonia ( 2.7 + / - 1.6 versus 5 + / - 0.6 ; p less than 0.03 ) and f-18 deoxyglucose ( 2.8 + / - 2.1 versus 4.6 + / - 1.1 ; p less than 0.03 ) . an index incorporating extent and severity of defects revealed more homogeneity with fewer and less severe defects in subjects with nonischemic than in those with ischemic cardiomyopathy as assessed by imaging of flow ( 2.8 + / - 1.8 versus 9.2 + / - 3 ; p less than 0.001 ) and metabolism ( 3.8 + / - 3.3 versus 8.5 + / - 3.6 ; p less than 0.005 ) . diagnostic accuracy for distinguishing the two subgroups by visual image analysis was 85 % . using previously published circumferential count profile criteria , patients with dilated cardiomyopathy had fewer ischemic segments ( 0.4 + / - 0.8 versus 2.5 + / - 2 per patient ; p less than 0.01 ) and infarcted segments ( 0.1 + / - 0.3 versus 2.4 + / - 1.4 per patient ; p less than 0.001 ) than did patients with cardiomyopathy of coronary artery disease . the sensitivity for differentiating the two clinical subgroups using circumferential profile analysis was 100 % and the specificity 80 % . an index incorporating both number and severity of defects derived from circumferential profile analysis was significantly lower in subjects with dilated cardiomyopathy than in ischemic cardiomyopathy ( 0.3 + / - 0.8 versus 2.7 + / - 2.4 ; p less than 0.005 ) . thus , noninvasive positron emission tomographic imaging with n-13 ammonia and f-18 deoxyglucose is helpful in distinguishing patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction secondary to coronary artery disease from those with nonischemic cardiomyopathy , and a semiquantitative index such as circumferential profile analysis is superior to that of visual analysis alone . 
drug therapy for ventricular tachyarrhythmias : how many electropharmacologic trials are appropriate ? to determine how many electropharmacologic drug trials should be performed to select therapy for patients with ventricular tachyarrhythmias , the outcome of 150 consecutive patients with inducible ventricular tachyarrhythmias undergoing serial electropharmacologic testing was examined . the probability of identifying predicted effective therapy ( inductive of fewer than five ventricular responses with three ventricular extrastimuli at three pacing cycle lengths ) and the probability of that therapy preventing sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmia recurrences were determined as a function of the number of preceding trials . the probability ( + / - se ) of identifying predicted effective therapy by the first trial ( 0.23 + / - 0.03 ) was significantly higher than that of the second ( 0.09 + / - 0.04 ) , third ( 0.08 + / - 0.04 ) and fourth ( 0.05 + / - 0.04 ) trials ( p = 0.001 ) . no patient had predicted effective therapy identified by subsequent trials . the 2 year actuarial probability of freedom from sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias on predicted effective therapy was higher for the first ( 0.79 + / - 0.08 ) , second ( 0.73 + / - 0.13 ) and third ( 0.86 + / - 0.13 ) trials than for the fourth ( 0.33 + / - 0.27 ) trial ( p = 0.02 ) . thus , the probability of selecting therapy with long-term efficacy was highest for the first trial ( 0.18 ) , intermediate for the second ( 0.07 ) and third ( 0.07 ) trials and lowest for the fourth ( 0.02 ) and subsequent ( 0.00 ) trials . accordingly , the electropharmacologic approach to therapy selection should be abandoned after three unsuccessful trials . 
comparison of pre - and postoperative conduction patterns in patients surgically cured of atrioventricular node reentrant tachycardia . patients with atrioventricular ( av ) node reentrant tachycardia characteristically have short and constant retrograde his-atrium conduction times ( h2a2 intervals ) during the introduction of ventricular extrastimuli . it has therefore been suggested that the tachycardia circuit involves retrograde conduction up an accessory pathway located in perinodal tissue . if the mechanism of surgical cure of av node reentrant tachycardia is interruption of this accessory pathway , postoperative changes in retrograde conduction would be expected . thirteen patients with drug-refractory av node reentrant tachycardia underwent surgery . preoperatively , h2a2 intervals were short and constant . during av node reentrant tachycardia , earliest atrial activation was seen near the his bundle and was 0 to 25 ms before ventricular activation in all patients except one . surgery consisted of dissection of right atrial septal and anterior inputs to the av node and central fibrous body . postoperatively , the h2a2 interval remained short and constant compared with preoperative values although it was slightly prolonged ( 74 + / - 18 versus 61 + / - 21 ms , p less than 0.005 ) . twelve of the 13 patients are free of tachycardia after 28 + / - 13 months and no patient has had evidence of av node block . thus , surgical cure of av node reentrant tachycardia is highly successful ; however , there is no reason to postulate an accessory pathway or use of perinodal tissue as part of the tachycardia circuit and the mechanism of surgical success remains obscure . 
prolonged and fractionated right atrial electrograms during sinus rhythm in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and sick sinus node syndrome . intraatrial catheter mapping of the right atrium was performed during sinus rhythm in 92 patients : group i = 43 control patients without paroxysmal atrial fibrillation or sick sinus node syndrome ; group ii = 31 patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation but without sick sinus node syndrome ; and group iii = 18 patients with both paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and sick sinus node syndrome . atrial electrograms were recorded at 12 sites in the right atrium . the duration and number of fragmented deflections of the atrial electrograms were quantitatively measured . the mean duration and number of fragmented deflections of the 516 atrial electrograms in group i were 74 + / - 11 ms and 3.9 + / - 1.3 , respectively . the criteria for an abnormal atrial electrogram were defined as a duration of greater than or equal to 100 ms or eight or more fragmented deflections , or both . abnormal atrial electrograms were observed in 10 patients ( 23.3 % ) in group i , 21 patients ( 67.7 % ) in group ii and 15 patients ( 83.3 % ) in group iii ( group ii versus group i , p less than 0.001 ; group iii versus group i , p less than 0.001 ) . the mean number of abnormal electrograms per patient with an abnormal electrogram was 1.3 + / - 0.7 in group i , 2.5 + / - 1.9 in group ii and 3.5 + / - 2.5 in group iii ( group i versus group ii , p less than 0.01 ; group ii versus group iii , p less than 0.05 ) . a prolonged and fractionated atrial electrogram characteristic of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation can be closely related to the vulnerability of the atrial muscle . 
spontaneous changes in ventricular tachycardia cycle length . understanding spontaneous fluctuations in ventricular tachycardia cycle length is required to develop algorithms for ventricular tachycardia detection and termination . variations in cycle length , time to stable cycle length and the range of rr intervals during ventricular tachycardia were analyzed in 74 episodes of sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia induced in patients not taking antiarrhythmic medication . linear regression demonstrated cycle length variability to decrease over time ( 41 + / - 24 to 17 + / - 19 ms , p less than 0.001 ) . slower ventricular tachycardia had more cycle length variability than faster ventricular tachycardia ( p less than 0.001 ) . ventricular tachycardia that was initially more variable tended to remain more variable ( p less than 0.001 ) . fifty-four percent of episodes stabilized within the first 15 beats , 75 % by 30 beats and 93 % by 50 beats . the number of beats to stable cycle length was independent of ventricular tachycardia rate . the average range in cycle length per episode was 127 + / - 72 ms ; 12 % of ventricular tachycardia episodes varied by less than 50 ms and 45 % by less than 150 ms. the maximal range in rr intervals from a single episode of ventricular tachycardia was 290 ms. therefore , ventricular tachycardia demonstrates a wide range of cycle lengths and has time-dependent changes in variability and stability . these cycle length changes should be considered in the algorithms for ventricular tachycardia detection and termination by automatic antitachycardia devices . 
automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator implantation without thoracotomy using an endocardial and submuscular patch system . the automatic cardioverter-defibrillator lead system is implanted by a thoracotomy procedure that may result in atelectasis , pleural effusion , cardiac tamponade and lengthy convalescence . a new defibrillator lead system that allows selection of different defibrillating current pathways is implanted without a thoracotomy . ten patients requiring a cardioverter-defibrillator for recurrent sustained ventricular tachycardia ( five patients ) or aborted sudden cardiac death ( five patients ) were evaluated for implantation of this lead system . a lead configuration with a bidirectional defibrillating current pathway was implanted in nine patients . the defibrillation threshold with this lead configuration was 15 j in five patients , 20 j in three and 30 to 35 j in one patient . in the remaining patient the lead system had a 40 j defibrillation threshold and was not implanted . no perioperative complications occurred . induced ventricular fibrillation was successfully terminated at the predischarge and intermediate follow-up ( 8 to 12 weeks ) electrophysiologic studies . during the follow-up period , there were three deaths ( one sudden , two due to heart failure ) and two lead system failures ( oversensing with inappropriate shocks in one patient and patch lead fracture in another ) . implantation of the cardioverter-defibrillator lead system by a nonthoracotomy approach is feasible , has no significant perioperative complications and is well tolerated by patients . effective defibrillation was demonstrated immediately as well as at intermediate follow-up study . the occurrence of patch lead fracture and oversensing requires improvement in the present ( nonthoracotomy ) lead system technology . 
echocardiographic evaluation of cardiac structure and function in elderly subjects with isolated systolic hypertension one hundred four participants in the systolic hypertension in the elderly program ( shep ) trial ( mean age 71 + / - 6 years ) were examined by doppler echocardiography to gain information on the cardiac structural and functional alterations in isolated systolic hypertension . participants had a systolic blood pressure greater than 160 mm hg with diastolic blood pressure less than 90 mm hg and were compared with 55 age-matched normotensive control subjects . left ventricular mass index was significantly higher in the participants than in the normotensive subjects ( 103 + / - 28 versus 87 + / - 23 g/m2 , p = 0.0014 ) and 26 % of the participants met echocardiographic criteria for left ventricular hypertrophy compared with 10 % of normotensive subjects . left atrial index was also greater in participants than in normotensive subjects ( 2.26 + / - 0.32 versus 2.11 + / - 0.24 cm/m2 , p = 0.005 ) and 51 % of participants had left atrial enlargement . doppler measures of diastolic filling were significantly different between the two groups , with peak atrial velocity higher ( 76 + / - 17 versus 69 + / - 17 cm/s , p = 0.02 ) and ratio of peak early to atrial velocity lower ( 0.76 + / - 0.23 versus 0.86 + / - 0.22 , p = 0.0124 ) in participants . there was no correlation between left ventricular mass index and doppler measures of diastolic function , but relative wall thickness correlated significantly with peak atrial velocity ( r = 0.22 , p = 0.016 ) and peak early to peak atrial velocity ratio ( r = 0.24 , p = 0.007 ) . there was no difference in m-mode ejection phase indexes of systolic performance ( shortening fraction and peak velocity of circumferential fiber shortening ) between the two groups . 
restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty : pathologic observations in 20 patients histopathologic examination was performed in 20 patients undergoing antemortem coronary angioplasty . thirty-four lesions were dilated and the interval between coronary angioplasty and death ranged from several hours to 4 years . intimal proliferation of smooth muscle cells , as a major cause of restenosis , was observed in 83 % to 100 % of 28 lesions examined 11 days to 2 years after coronary angioplasty . in 20 lesions examined within 6 months , proliferating smooth muscle cells were predominantly of the synthetic type and there was abundant extracellular matrix substance chiefly composed of proteoglycans . in eight lesions examined between 6 months and 2 years , contractile type smooth muscle cells were dominant and extracellular matrix was composed chiefly of collagen . in three lesions examined after 2 years , evidence of antemortem coronary angioplasty was hardly identifiable and these lesions were almost indistinguishable from conventional atherosclerotic plaque . these temporal changes in histologic pattern provide a pathologic background for clinical reports that restenosis is predominantly found within 6 months after coronary angioplasty . morphometric analysis revealed that the extent of intimal proliferation was significantly greater in lesions with evidence of medial or adventitial tears than in lesions with no or only intimal tears . 
differential histopathology of primary atherosclerotic and restenotic lesions in coronary arteries and saphenous vein bypass grafts : analysis of tissue obtained from 73 patients by directional atherectomy . vascular tissue obtained using a directional percutaneous atherectomy device was examined microscopically . tissue was obtained from coronary arteries without prior instrumentation ( primary lesions , n = 31 ) , aortocoronary saphenous vein bypass grafts with primary lesions ( n = 8 ) , coronary arteries with lesions developing after prior balloon angioplasty or mechanical atherectomy ( restenotic lesions , n = 30 ) and vein bypass grafts with restenotic lesions ( n = 4 ) . primary lesions were characterized by dense intimal fibrosis with necrotic debris ( 83 % of intimal tissue ) and foam cells typical of atherosclerosis . these lesions frequently contained cholesterol crystals ( 45 % of coronary arteries , 50 % of vein grafts ) and calcium deposits ( 65 % of coronary arteries , 38 % of vein grafts ) . restenotic lesions were characterized by an increased proportion of loose fibroproliferative tissue ( 45 % of coronary artery intima , 35 % of vein graft intima ) . immunohistochemical stains confirmed this proliferative tissue to be primarily smooth muscle cells . thrombus was rarely observed . comparison of resected tissues indicated that dense fibrosis and necrosis are significantly more common in primary than in restenotic lesions ( 83 % versus 56 % of intimal tissue , p = 0.0005 ) , whereas smooth muscle cell hyperplasia is more common in restenotic than in primary lesions ( 44 % versus 17 % of intimal tissue , p less than 0.0005 ) . partial-thickness resection of medial tissue or full-thickness resection of media with associated adventitial tissue occurred in 27 ( 56 % ) of 39 primary atheromatous lesions and 16 ( 47 % ) of 34 restenotic lesions ; subintimal tissue obtained from primary lesions appeared identical to that obtained from restenotic lesions . these data indicate that the histopathologic characteristics of the neointimal layer of restenotic lesions differ from those of the intimal layer of primary atherosclerotic lesions . 
transplant coronary artery disease : histopathologic correlations with angiographic morphology . accelerated coronary artery disease is a major cause of morbidity and mortality among cardiac transplant recipients . ten patients who died or underwent retransplantation within 2 months of coronary angiography had direct correlation of angiographic ( normal discrete lesions , diffuse concentric narrowing ) with histologic appearance of coronary arteries . of the 26 angiographically normal segments , 73 % showed mild to moderate fibrous intimal thickening by light microscopy . the remainder had intermediate lesions or atheromatous plaques . discrete stenoses usually corresponded to lipid-rich intermediate or atheromatous disease . in contrast , angiographically diffuse , concentrically narrowed lesions usually were areas of severe fibrous intimal thickening . fresh or organizing thrombus was most often associated with discrete lesions and accounted for all complete occlusions . histologic and angiographic comparisons of the degree of luminal narrowing showed generally good correlation for high grade stenoses . lesions graded as having less than 25 % diameter narrowing were often underestimated angiographically as compared with histologic determinations . transplant coronary artery disease has a heterogeneous histologic and angiographic appearance , with angiographic underestimation of disease in some patients . 
immunosuppressive therapy in the management of acute myocarditis in children : a clinical trial . to assess whether steroid therapy influenced the clinical course of myocarditis in a pediatric population , findings in 13 consecutive infants and children ( 8 female , 5 male ) with biopsy-proved myocarditis were reviewed . the mean age was 5.7 + / - 4.8 years ( range 1.1 to 14.8 ) . congestive heart failure was present in all as were st-t wave changes , cardiomegaly and pulmonary edema on chest roentgenogram . echocardiography demonstrated pericardial effusion in five patients and mitral regurgitation in eight . mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 34 + / - 12 % . prednisone was administered to all patients ; one patient also received azathioprine . there was one death . all survivors showed clinical improvement with normalization of ecg changes , heart size and systolic function . no significant side effects occurred . repeat myocardial biopsy in eight patients demonstrated improvement in all eight and elimination of the inflammatory infiltrate in six . immunosuppressive therapy in this pediatric population appeared useful in improving the clinical course and cardiac function in acute myocarditis with no adverse side effects . 
lung function and pulmonary regurgitation limit exercise capacity in postoperative tetralogy of fallot . fifty-five patients with repair of tetralogy of fallot were evaluated with treadmill exercise , pulmonary function testing and rest two-dimensional and doppler echocardiography to determine the relation among cardiopulmonary function , exercise capacity and ventricular arrhythmias . the mean age at repair was 8.1 + / - 2.1 years ; age at the time of study ranged from 15 to 37 years ( mean follow-up time after repair 18 + / - 5 years ) . exercise duration was 92 + / - 17 % of predicted . maximal heart rate was 94 + / - 7 % of predicted . no exercise test was stopped because of an arrhythmia . thirty patients had oxygen consumption and ventilation measured during their final minute of exercise . peak oxygen consumption was 31 + / - 8 ml/kg per min ( 86 + / - 18 % of predicted ) . twenty-five patients ( 45 % ) had low vital capacity at rest ( less than 80 % of predicted ) . pulmonary regurgitation was identified in 42 ( 75 % ) of the patients and judged to be moderate in 10 ( 18 % ) . mild tricuspid valve regurgitation was identified in 64 % . doppler estimated right ventricular outflow gradient was greater than 15 mm hg in 15 % of the patients ( mean gradient 24 mm hg [ range 16 to 56 ] ) . age at repair , duration of follow-up and type of repair did not correlate with echocardiographic variables , ventilatory data , exercise performance or arrhythmias . moderate pulmonary regurgitation was associated with increased right ventricular diastolic area and both were inversely related to exercise duration and vital capacity . decreased breathing reserve during maximal exercise was associated with moderate pulmonary regurgitation and decreased vital capacity . the results indicate that exercise capacity in these patients is in general good ; however , right ventricular volume loading and ventilatory dysfunction may produce exercise limitation . 
effect of atenolol and diltiazem on heart period variability in normal persons . several time and frequency domain measures of heart period variability are reduced 1 to 2 weeks after myocardial infarction , and a reduced standard deviation of normal rr intervals over a 24 h period ( sdnn ) is associated with increased mortality . the predictive accuracy of heart period variability may be reduced by drugs used to treat patients after myocardial infarction . accordingly , a randomized , three period , placebo-controlled , crossover ( latin square ) design was used to determine the effect of atenolol and diltiazem on time and frequency measures of heart period variability calculated from 24 h continuous electrocardiographic recordings during treatment with atenolol , diltiazem and placebo in 18 normal volunteers . during atenolol treatment , the 24 h average normal rr ( nn ) interval increased 24 % ( p less than 0.001 ) . the three measures of tonic vagal activity were significantly increased ( p less than 0.001 ) during atenolol treatment : percent of successive normal rr intervals greater than 50 ms = 69 % , root mean square successive difference of normal rr intervals = 61 % and high frequency power in the heart period power spectrum = 84 % . low frequency power also increased 45 % ( p less than 0.01 ) , indicating that this variable also is an indicator of tonic vagal activity over 24 h. diltiazem had no significant effect on the 24 h average nn interval or on any measure of heart period variability . the decreased mortality rate after myocardial infarction associated with beta-adrenergic blocker but not calcium channel blocker therapy may be attributed in part to an increase in vagal tone caused by beta-blockers . 
the mansfield scientific aortic valvuloplasty registry : overview of acute hemodynamic results and procedural complications . between december 1 , 1986 and october 30 , 1987 , balloon aortic valvuloplasty was performed in 492 patients with aortic stenosis ( mean age 79 + / - 8.4 years ) enrolled in the mansfield scientific aortic valvuloplasty registry . all procedures were performed from a femoral approach ( 92 % ) , brachial approach ( 6 % ) or transseptal approach ( 2 % ) and utilized either a single balloon technique ( 72 % ) or a double balloon technique ( 28 % ) . valvuloplasty resulted in a significant improvement in aortic valve area ( 0.50 + / - 0.18 cm2 to 0.82 + / - 0.30 cm2 ) , mean aortic valve gradient ( 60 + / - 23 mm hg to 30 + / - 13 mm hg ) and cardiac output ( 3.86 + / - 1.26 to 4.05 + / - 1.31 liters/min ) . serial aortography demonstrated a moderate or severe increase in aortic insufficiency in only 2.1 % of patients . statistical analysis of the procedural factors affecting acute valvuloplasty results demonstrated significant correlations of single versus double balloon technique , total number of balloon inflations and total number of balloon exchanges with respect to the absolute change in mean aortic valve gradient occurring during the valvuloplasty procedure . in addition , there was a significant correlation between the maximal time of valvuloplasty balloon inflation with aortic valve area measured after valvuloplasty , and there were significant correlations of the total number of balloon inflations and total number of balloon exchanges with the aortic valve mean gradient measured after valvuloplasty . the overall complication rate for the procedure was 20.5 % , including vascular injury in 11 % , embolic phenomenon in 2.2 % , ventricular perforation resulting in tamponade in 1.8 % , massive aortic insufficiency in 1 % , nonfatal arrhythmia in 0.8 % and myocardial infarction in 0.2 % . 
association between primary pulmonary hypertension and portal hypertension : analysis of its pathophysiology and clinical , laboratory and hemodynamic manifestations . to determine the clinical , laboratory and hemodynamic profile in patients with primary pulmonary hypertension and associated portal hypertension , 7 new cases and 71 previously reported cases were analyzed . there was no gender predilection and the average age at diagnosis was 41 years . liver cirrhosis was the most frequent cause of hypertension ( 82 % ) and a surgical portosystemic shunt was present in 29 % . almost invariably , portal hypertension either preceded or was diagnosed concurrently with pulmonary hypertension , favoring the hypothesis that in portal hypertension , the pulmonary vasculature may be exposed to vasoactive substances normally metabolized or produced by the diseased liver , possibly inducing vasoconstriction or direct toxic damage to the pulmonary arteries . clinically , exertional dyspnea was the most frequent presenting symptom ( 81 % ) ; other symptoms , such as syncope , chest pain and fatigue , were present in less than 33 % . an accentuated pulmonary component of the second heart sound ( 82 % ) and a systolic murmur ( 69 % ) were the most common physical findings . at least 75 % of these patients had evidence of pulmonary hypertension on electrocardiography ( right ventricular hypertrophy ) or roentgenography ( cardiomegaly or dilated main pulmonary arteries , or both ) . hemodynamic findings included severe pulmonary hypertension ( mean pulmonary artery pressure 59 + / - 19 mm hg ) with normal pulmonary capillary wedge pressure and cardiac output . treatment was basically palliative and the mean and median survival times were 15 and 6 months , respectively . in brief , on the basis of clinical presentation and laboratory features , patients with combined primary pulmonary hypertension and portal hypertension seldom represent a diagnostic challenge . further research is needed on treatment , which remains palliative . the survival rate is poor and worse than that seen in isolated primary pulmonary hypertension . 
atrial activation sequence during atrial flutter in the canine pericarditis model and its effects on the polarity of the flutter wave in the electrocardiogram . stable atrial flutter induced in both conscious and open chest states was studied in 30 mongrel dogs after production of sterile pericarditis . during the conscious state studies , induced atrial flutter ( mean cycle length 128 + / - 15 ms ) was always sustained greater than 15 min and was stable . three types of flutter wave polarity were noted in electrocardiogram ( ecg ) lead ii : positive in 16 dogs , negative in 3 and flat or slightly positive in 11 . sequential site atrial mapping during atrial flutter ( mean cycle length 133 + / - 18 ms ) in the open chest state showed either clockwise ( 18 dogs ) or counterclockwise ( 12 dogs ) circus movement in the right atrium . in 19 of 30 dogs , the circus movement clearly did not require any naturally existing anatomic obstacle ; in 11 , the orifice of the superior vena cava probably was also involved . double potentials were recorded from the center of the reentrant circuit during atrial flutter , and fractionated electrograms were recorded from a pivot point of the reentrant wave front . a positive flutter wave in ecg lead ii ( 12 dogs with counterclockwise circus movement ) was associated with early activation of the bachmann 's bundle region compared with the posteroinferior left atrium and activation of the left atrium mainly in a superoinferior direction . a negative flutter was associated with the early activation of the posteroinferior left atrium compared with bachmann 's bundle and activation of a considerable portion of the left atrium in an inferosuperior direction . a flat or slightly positive flutter wave ( 14 of 18 with clockwise circus movement ) was associated with activation of the left atrium almost simultaneously by two wave fronts coming from both these sites . in conclusion , atrial flutter in this dog model is due to circus movement in the right atrium , the center of which does not necessarily require an anatomic obstacle . although atrial flutter is generated by circus movement in the right atrium , the flutter wave polarity in the ecg is determined primarily by the activation sequence of the left atrium . 
hypertrophy , fibrosis and diastolic dysfunction in early canine experimental hypertension . to examine the relations among hypertrophy , fibrosis and diastolic performance in early experimental hypertension , 18 control dogs and 12 dogs with experimental left ventricular hypertrophy were studied . diastolic function was impaired in dogs with left ventricular hypertrophy , with decreased doppler early to atrial inflow velocity ratio ( e/a ) ( 1.35 versus 1.72 ) , increased atrial filling fraction ( 35 % versus 29 % ) , decreased sonomicrometric peak rates of wall thinning ( -2.01 versus -3.37 liters/s ) and filling ( 4.33 versus 6.64 liters/s ) and prolonged time constant of isovolumetric relaxation ( tau ; 34.3 versus 28.1 ms ) . neither chamber stiffness ( k ; p = aekv ) nor passive elastic stiffness ( e ; e = k sigma , where sigma = stress ) was increased . at postmortem examination , the hypertensive left ventricle weighed significantly more than normal ( 116 versus 80 g ; p less than 0.01 ) and had greater muscle fiber diameter at endocardial and epicardial sampling sites in the apical free wall , basal free wall and septum ( mean diameter 50 + / - 8 microns in hypertensive dogs , 37 + / - 8 microns in normal dogs ; p less than 0.01 ) . in contrast , neither percent fibrosis ( 1.2 + / - 0.8 versus 0.9 + / - 0.6 in normal dogs ) nor fibrotic volume ( 1.21 + / - 0.63 versus 0.72 + / - 0.42 % / g in normal dogs ) was significantly increased . peak volumetric filling rate was inversely related to fiber diameter ( r = -0.74 , p less than 0.001 ) , although no variable of left ventricular function was significantly related to percent or volume fibrosis ( all r less than 0.60 , all p greater than 0.05 ) . thus , diastolic dysfunction may exist in the setting of hypertrophy without significant fibrosis . increased myocyte size was associated with early diastolic filling abnormalities characteristic of the hypertensive left ventricle . fibrosis appears to be a less important determinant of diastolic performance . 
transesophageal echocardiography is superior to transthoracic echocardiography in the diagnosis of sinus venosus atrial septal defect . the purpose of this study was to compare transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography in the diagnosis of various types of atrial septal defects . forty-one adult patients with the clinical diagnosis of atrial septal defect were studied by transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography ( 30 women , 11 men ; 18 to 81 years of age ) . transthoracic echocardiography demonstrated the atrial septal defect in 33 patients ( secundum type in 28 , primum type in 3 and sinus venosus type in 2 ) . transesophageal echocardiography demonstrated the defect in all 41 patients . thus , in 8 ( 20 % ) of 41 patients the atrial septal defect was demonstrated by transesophageal and not by transthoracic echocardiography . six of the eight had a sinus venosus type atrial septal defect ; the other two patients had a secundum atrial septal defect ( one of these two had a technically poor transthoracic echocardiogram and the other had a small atrial septal defect ) . transthoracic echocardiography , therefore , failed to demonstrate the sinus venosus defect in six ( 75 % ) of eight patients . an anomalous venous connection associated with the sinus venosus defect was visualized by transesophageal echocardiography in seven of the eight patients but was not seen on transthoracic echocardiography in any patient . sinus venosus type atrial septal defects are frequently not visualized in adults by conventional transthoracic echocardiography . transesophageal echocardiography is recommended when an atrial septal defect is clinically suspected but can not be visualized by transthoracic echocardiography . 
physicians ' perspectives on cholesterol and heart disease . in early spring of 1988 , questionnaires were mailed to 4,000 midwestern physicians to survey their attitudes and practices regarding elevated serum cholesterol and their use of referrals for nutrition counseling ; 633 physicians responded . sixty-eight percent of the physicians thought that reducing high serum cholesterol levels would substantially affect heart disease ; however , physicians attributed considerably less preventive value to reducing the cholesterol level than to reducing blood pressure ( 80.3 % ) or ceasing smoking ( 90.0 % ) . the range of serum cholesterol for which diet therapy was most frequently initiated was 5.70 to 6.20 mmol/l . the most frequent range for initiation of drug therapy was 7.80 to 8.25 mmol/l . the physicians reported that although their medical school training did not prepare them adequately for providing diet counseling , they did feel prepared to provide , and were successful in , counseling on diet modifications for reducing serum cholesterol . few ( 10 % ) of the total sample reported having registered dietitians available for dietary counseling , and most ( 88.8 % ) believed that it is the physician 's responsibility to provide such counseling . although the low response rate limits the conclusions of the survey , it is likely that those physicians most interested in the topic responded . we conclude that registered dietitians should explore the need for their special services further . more aggressive marketing of dietetic services could benefit both physicians and patients in the campaign to reduce serum cholesterol . 
influence of dietary cod liver oil on fatty acid composition of plasma lipids in human male subjects after myocardial infarction . a randomized crossover study was carried out to investigate the fatty acid profile and concentrations of plasma lipids in male patients with myocardial infarction ( mi ) who supplemented their diet with 20 ml cod liver oil daily for 6 weeks . subjects were divided into two groups , a and b. group a received cod liver oil daily for 6 weeks after hospital discharge , but none for the subsequent 6 weeks . group b did not start taking cod liver oil until 6 weeks after hospital discharge , and they then took cod liver oil for 6 weeks . diet , medication or smoking habits were kept as constant as possible during the study . during the period of cod liver oil intake , eicosapentaenoic acid ( 20:5 ( n-3 ) , epa ) and docosahexaenoic acid ( 22:6 ( n-3 ) , dha ) increased significantly in phospholipids ( pl ) , triglycerides ( tg ) and cholesterol esters ( ce ) , whereas linoleic acid ( 18:2 ( n-6 ) , la ) , dihomo-gamma-linolenic acid ( 20:3 ( n-6 ) , dhgla ) and arachidonic acid ( 20:4 ( n-6 ) , aa ) were significantly decreased in phospholipids . the plasma level of tg was significantly decreased during the cod liver oil intake . total cholesterol , high density lipoprotein ( hdl ) cholesterol , and levels of apolipoproteins a1 and b were not affected by cod liver oil in these mi patients . 
atrioventricular plane displacement in severe congestive heart failure following dilated cardiomyopathy or myocardial infarction . echocardiographic recording of the atrioventricular ( av ) plane displacement during the cardiac cycle was used to assess left ventricular ( lv ) global function in patients with congestive heart failure ( chf ) . the study population consisted of 70 patients with chronic chf ( nyha functional groups iii and iv ) following dilated cardiomyopathy ( dcm ) or myocardial infarction ( mi ) , and 35 age-matched healthy subjects . the av plane displacement was recorded from the apical 4 - and 2-chamber views at four lv sites located about 90 degrees apart and representing the septal , anterior , lateral and posterior parts of the lv wall . a mean value was calculated from the above sites ( av-mean ) . patients with chf showed a significant generalized reduction of av plane displacement compared to healthy subjects ( 5.6 mm vs. 14.5 mm , p less than 0.001 ) . thirty chf patients also underwent radionuclide angiography in order to determine the ejection fraction ( ef ) . the correlation between av-mean and ef was good ( r = 0.82 , p less than 0.001 ) . the selection of an av-mean of less than 7 mm to define a severely depressed lv function ( ef less than 30 % ) gave a sensitivity of 92 % and a specificity of 67 % . it is concluded that the av plane displacement can be used to estimate lv systolic function in patients with chf . 
elevation of plasma neuropeptide y-like immunoreactivity and noradrenaline during myocardial ischaemia in man . plasma levels of neuropeptide y-like immunoreactivity ( npy-li ) and noradrenaline were studied for 25 h in 22 patients with acute ischaemic heart disease . on admission , npy-li levels were above normal in 16 patients , and 20 patients had increased noradrenaline levels . the initial plasma npy-li did not differ between patients with acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) and angina pectoris . initial plasma noradrenaline levels were higher in patients with ami than in those with angina pectoris . plasma levels of noradrenaline remained elevated in ami patients , but decreased towards normal values in patients with angina pectoris . levels of npy-li returned to normal within 25 h in all patients . tachycardia and left ventricular failure were related to high npy-li and noradrenaline levels . a positive correlation was found between noradrenaline and npy-li in plasma . it is suggested that neuropeptide y ( npy ) , an endogenous vasoconstrictor peptide , should be considered as one of the mediators involved in the cardiovascular response to sympathetic activation induced by myocardial ischaemia . 
unnecessary deaths from valvular aortic stenosis . the annual mortality from aortic valvular stenosis was calculated among potential candidates for surgical replacement of the aortic valve . from the swedish central register of causes of death , 70 patients below the age of 80 years who had died from aortic stenosis during a 1-year period in the county of stockholm ( population 1.5 million ) , were identified . a retrospective analysis of their medical records showed that 37 individuals were suitable candidates for surgery . the presence of aortic stenosis had been verified at autopsy in 31 ( 84 % ) patients . the remaining six patients ( 16 % ) had their aortic stenosis diagnosis established by a thorough non-invasive investigation performed before death . although typical signs and symptoms of aortic stenosis were recorded in all 37 patients , only six ( 16 % ) of them had been considered by their physicians to be suitable candidates for surgery prior to death . the deceased patients were compared with a group of 68 patients who had undergone aortic valve replacement for aortic stenosis during the same period . there were no significant differences between the two groups with regard to symptoms and clinical findings , except for a higher incidence of syncope in the operated group . it is concluded that , of 105 ( 68 surgically treated and 37 deceased ) eligible patients with aortic stenosis , 37 individuals did not receive surgical care in time . the reason for this was probably insufficient knowledge of the curability of the disease . 
antihypertensive drugs and glucose metabolism : comparison between a diuretic , a beta-blocker and felodipine , a new calcium antagonist in subjects with arterial hypertension and diabetes . felodipine , a new antihypertensive calcium antagonist , was compared with metoprolol , a beta-blocker , and hydrochlorothiazide , a diuretic , with respect to glucose tolerance in a randomized double-blind cross-over study consisting of 11 patients , of age range 50-70 years , who had developed diabetes during antihypertensive treatment . each treatment period lasted for 10 weeks . the blood pressure was similar irrespective of treatment . serum glucose levels during the oral glucose tolerance test were significantly lower when the patients were treated with felodipine than when they were taking hydrochlorothiazide . serum insulin levels appeared to decrease at an earlier stage of the test when the patients were treated with felodipine , the calcium antagonist , than with the other two antihypertensive substances , which suggests that glucose tolerance is impaired to a lesser extent during treatment with the calcium antagonist . glucose tolerance was never completely normalized with any of the drugs tested . 
high urinary camp in hypertensives despite careful drug treatment -- an epidemiological study from the dalby population . the correlation between serum calcium ( s-ca ) , plasma parathyroid hormone ( p-pth ) and hypertension was determined in a population-based , cross-sectional study of carefully treated hypertensives ( n = 391 ; diastolic blood pressure 90.2 mmhg ; 57 years ) compared with normotensive controls ( n = 328 ; diastolic blood pressure 82.1 mmhg ; 57 years ) . levels of urinary cyclic-adenosinemonophosphate ( u-camp ) , but not of plasma camp ( p-camp ) , were higher ( p less than 0.001 ) in hypertensives than in controls . this was the case regardless of the type of drug treatment and the blood pressure level that was reached . u-camp correlated with adrenaline in multivariate analyses . s-ca levels were higher ( p less than 0.001 ) and s-mg levels were lower ( p less than 0.001 ) in hypertensives than in controls . this was not explained by thiazide treatment . thus , despite ' adequate ' blood pressure reduction , substantial differences in s-ca , s-mg and u-camp still exist between hypertensives and normotensive controls . 
very high blood pressure in acute stroke . in a study sample consisting of 388 unselected , consecutive acute stroke patients , 27 with systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 200 mmhg and diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 115 mmhg were compared with the other 361 patients . the patients with high blood pressure were younger ( 65 vs. 73 years ) and much more often had a history of hypertension ( 78 vs. 42 % ) . cardiac and vascular hypertensive manifestations were more frequent , particularly when only those patients with a history of hypertension were compared in the two groups . alcohol abuse was mentioned in a higher proportion of hypertensives in the summaries of their medical records . no definite conclusions could be drawn with regard to the size and location of the brain lesions . clinical symptoms did not differ between the groups , neither did the proportion of patients who could be discharged from hospital immediately . mortality was higher in the high blood pressure group ( 30 vs. 14 % , p less than 0.05 ) . thus the characteristics of patients with very high blood pressure were : younger age , much more frequent and severe previous hypertension . alcohol abuse might be an important factor . the type , size and location of the brain lesion itself could not be statistically related to the high blood pressure , but very large lesions , particularly haemorrhages , might be associated with a reactive blood pressure response . 
increased arterial adrenaline is related to pain in uncomplicated myocardial infarction . plasma levels of catecholamines , beta-thromboglobulin ( btg ) and arginine vasopressin ( avp ) , and degree of pain were examined in 22 patients with suspected uncomplicated myocardial infarction within 24 h following onset of chest pain . sixteen patients developed infarction with peak creatine phosphokinase at 1280 ul-1 ( range 293-3770 ul-1 ) . fifteen healthy men served as controls ( c ) . arterial adrenaline levels were significantly higher in patients with pain ( 1.15 + / - 0.23 nmol l-1 , n = 8 , mean value + / - sem ) than in those without pain ( 0.60 + / - 0.10 nmol l-1 , n = 14 , p less than 0.05 ) . plasma catecholamines were moderately but significantly elevated in myocardial infarction ; the concentration of arterial adrenaline was 0.83 + / - 0.14 nmol l-1 and that of arterial noradrenaline was 2.70 + / - 0.28 nmol l-1 compared with 0.44 + / - 0.04 nmol l-1 ( p less than 0.025 ) and 1.47 + / - 0.05 nmol l-1 ( p less than 0.0005 ) , respectively , in c. one week later , plasma catecholamines had returned to baseline levels . plasma btg showed borderline elevation ( 1.0 + / - 0.1 pmol l-1 ) compared with c ( 0.6 + / - 0.1 pmol l-1 , p = 0.04 ) , and remained unchanged 1 week later . plasma avp was at baseline level . uncomplicated myocardial infarction , regardless of size , was associated with only moderately increased sympathetic tone . plasma adrenaline was related more to the degree of pain than to the presence of acute myocardial infarction . arterial adrenaline may be a sensitive marker of sympatho-adrenal activity related to pain . 
increased whole blood viscosity combined with decreased erythrocyte fluidity in untreated patients with essential hypertension . erythrocyte fluidity and other haemorheological variables were studied in 22 patients with essential hypertension and compared with age - and sex-matched healthy controls . hypertensive patients displayed a significantly lower erythrocyte fluidity ( p less than 0.001 ) . similarly , significantly elevated values for haematocrit , plasma and whole blood viscosity , as well as aggregation tendency were observed compared to controls . although differing in these respects from controls , there were no obvious relationships between these rheological variables and either systolic or diastolic blood pressure . the significantly lower erythrocyte fluidity and other changes in haemorheological variables of red blood cells found in hypertensive patients may be explained by an enlarged metabolic pool of free calcium ions in these red blood cells . it is suggested that the molecular mechanisms underlying the evolution of essential hypertension are multifactorial rather than being based on a single molecular derangement . primary events resulting in altered physicochemical properties of the red blood cells may work in concert in the development of essential hypertension , in addition to the increased availability of calcium ions and their potential role in smooth muscle contraction . 
fatal pulmonary embolism caused by streptokinase treatment of deep venous thrombosis of the leg ? during the last 10 years , four of 150 ( 2.7 % ) patients with deep venous thrombosis ( dvt ) treated with streptokinase ( sk ) at our department have died of pulmonary embolism ( pe ) . a retrospective study of 1393 dvt patients treated with heparin during the period 1973-1986 showed that five ( 0.36 % ) of these patients died of pe while still on heparin . in this paper we describe the four patients treated with sk who developed fatal pe . in our opinion this increase in mortality does not warrant the use of sk in routine treatment of dvt of the leg before a proper trial has been conducted to compare the frequencies of pulmonary embolism after both treatments . 
assessment of myocardial perfusion in patients after the arterial switch operation . in 21 patients who had undergone the arterial switch operation , the adequacy of myocardial perfusion was evaluated by thallium-201 computed scintigraphy 2.6 + / - 2 ( 0.3-7 ) yr after surgery . fourteen patients had undergone the arterial switch procedure after pulmonary artery banding and seven as a primary repair . isoproterenol stress increased the heart rate by at least 55 % . tomographic imaging was performed at peak stress and 3 hr later in the reperfusion phase . nine patients had perfusion defects . the perfusion defects were located at the left ventricular apex in four ( with extension to the inferolateral wall in one ) , left ventricular anterolateral wall in two , ventricular septum in one , left ventricular inferior wall in one , and right ventricular free wall in one . some of these defects could be due to myocardial damage at the time of surgery , but these results also raise concern about long-term adequacy of myocardial perfusion following the arterial switch procedure . 
myocardial uptake of carbon-11-acetate as an indirect estimate of regional myocardial blood flow . the rate of clearance of myocardial carbon-11 ( 11c ) activity ( after the administration of 11c-acetate ) has been shown to correlate closely with myocardial oxygen consumption . in the present study , we hypothesized that regional net myocardial uptake of 11c-acetate , which reflects primarily delivery and extraction of tracer , would be markedly flow-dependent and potentially useful as an indirect index of regional myocardial blood flow . in 22 patients with stable coronary artery disease , the regional distribution of early net uptake of 11c-acetate was correlated with estimates of regional myocardial blood flow assessed with oxygen-15-water . the myocardial images of 11c-acetate uptake were of high quality . the correlation between the two approaches was close ( r = 0.88 ) and not affected by the metabolic state of the tissue . thus , in patients with stable coronary artery disease , under resting conditions , direct estimates of myocardial oxygen consumption in relation to the level of delivery of tracer to the tissue can now be obtained by pet with use of a single radiopharmaceutical , 11c-acetate . this approach may prove particularly useful in streamlining clinical protocols designed to assess myocardial oxygen consumption . 
blood-pool radionuclide angiography in patients with a novacor left ventricular assist device . blood-pool radionuclide angiography was used to investigate the left ventricular function in eight patients who received a novacor assist device as a bridge-to-cardiac transplantation . studies were performed during maximal and minimal tolerated assist device flows . the left ventricular ejection fraction , volumes , cardiac output , and the pump ejection fraction were computer-assessed . all patients had severe left ventricular dilation and hypokinesis before insertion of the assist device , with a mean ejection fraction of 18 % + / - 4 % which improved to 44 % + / - 18 % ( p less than 0.01 ) during maximal assist device flows , but fell to 25 % + / - 15 % ( p less than 0.01 ) during minimal flows . the ventricular volumes became normal at maximal assist device flow but increased significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) during minimal flow . the pump was well visualized and had an ejection fraction of 82 % + / - 7 % . these data indicate that this assist device effectively unloads the left ventricle . the deterioration in ejection fraction following decrease in assist device flow is in keeping with the dependency of these patients on the device to sustain adequate hemodynamics . 
effect of aortic sclerosis on bone mineral measurements by dual-photon absorptiometry . measurements of the bone mineral content ( bmc ) of lumbar spine by dual-photon absorptiometry ( dpa ) are performed mainly in the anteroposterior ( ap ) projection . due to superimposition of the abdominal aorta , the bmc measured for patients with aortic calcification usually is too high . to determine the influence of aortic calcifications , dpa scans were performed in the ap-projection on 100 dissected abdominal aortae with different degrees of atherosclerosis placed on a human lumbar spine cast in lucite . the measured values were compared with those obtained in the same projection without the aortae . the average increase of the bmc values relative to the mean for the vertebrae l2 to l4 for aortae with severe complicated lesions , i.e. , those containing larger amounts of calcium , was 0.03 g/cm2 , with a maximum deviation of 0.09 g/cm2 . aortae with fatty streaks or fibrous plaques did not cause significant increases of the bmc . the mean deviation for aortae with mild complicated lesions , i.e. , those containing smaller amounts of calcium , was within the range of instrument precision . 
early scintigraphic detection of experimental myocardial infarction in dogs with technetium-99m-glucaric acid recent data have generated some interest in technetium-99m - ( 99mtc ) glucaric acid as an in vivo viability marker . we studied 99mtc-glucaric acid retention in canine models of myocardial ischemia ( 20-min occlusion of the lad/40-min reperfusion ) , acute myocardial infarction ( mi ) ( 90-min lad occlusion/3-hr reperfusion ) , and chronic mi ( 90-min occlusion and either 48-hr or 10-day reperfusion ) . regional myocardial blood flow was measured by radiolabeled microspheres . no preferential uptake of glucaric acid was observed in ischemic but viable myocardium . the compound showed high affinity for necrotic myocardial tissue for several days following injury . the preferential uptake in infarcted tissue disappeared by 10 days following injury . this study shows that 99mtc-glucaric acid acts exclusively as a marker of necrosis in canine models of mi . technetium-99m-glucaric acid may have clinical utility in early cardiac imaging of myocardial infarction and in differentiating recent from old injuries . 
effect of coronary occlusion and myocardial viability on myocardial activity of technetium-99m-sestamibi the timing effect of sestamibi administration with respect to the onset of myocardial ischemia and reperfusion was studied in swine . in different groups of animals sestamibi was administered prior to coronary artery occlusion , during occlusion , or 1/2 hour following reperfusion . sestamibi administered prior to coronary occlusion resulted in an insignificant decrease in 99mtc activity in the ischemic zone . however , infarct zone activity was reduced to 62 + / - 14 % of the nonischemic zone . in contrast , administration during coronary occlusion resulted in similar significant reductions of both ischemic and infarct zone activity . administration of sestamibi during reperfusion resulted in normal ischemic zone activity and markedly reduced activity in the infarct zone . significantly reduced activity in the infarct zone was found to be independent of the timing of sestamibi administration with respect to the onset of myocardial ischemia and/or reperfusion . thus , cell viability appears required for uptake and retention of isotope activity . 
the management of primary pulmonary hypertension . primary pulmonary hypertension is a clinical syndrome characterized by pulmonary hypertension in the absence of sufficient underlying cardiac , parenchymal pulmonary , or systemic disease to account for it . the population of patients with primary pulmonary hypertension is a heterogeneous one , both clinically and histologically . as the etiologic mechanisms are unknown , therapy is directed toward the consequences of the pulmonary vascular process . oxygen supplementation , the use of digoxin and diuretics for symptomatic heart failure , and anticoagulation all may have a role in treating primary pulmonary hypertension , although vasodilator therapy has been the main area of investigation . screening for vasodilator responsiveness , defining a favorable vasodilator effect , predicting long-term effectiveness , and deciding who to treat have all been controversial . new approaches , such as use of high-dose calcium channel-blocking agents and continuous intravenous infusion of prostacyclin ( an investigational agent ) , have recently been proposed . when medical therapies are exhausted , heart-lung or lung transplantation has increasingly become an option for selected patients . 
coronary artery bypass grafting in elderly patients . comparative results in a consecutive series of 469 patients older than 75 years . a consecutive series of 7104 patients undergoing isolated coronary artery bypass grafting during an 18-year period ( 1971 to 1988 ) included 469 patients older than 75 years . results were analyzed to determine comparative risk factors for morbidity , early and late survival , and functional outcome . patients younger than 75 years ( group i ) and patients older than 75 years ( group ii ) were identical for ejection fraction and standard hemodynamic indices . mean number of grafts and crossclamp time were greater for group ii patients ( p less than 0.01 ) . mean age of group i was 58.6 years and group ii , 77.6 years ( p less than 0.01 ) . women composed 19.7 % ( 1308/6635 ) of group i and 36.2 % ( 170/469 ) of group ii patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . mammary grafts were placed in 57.7 % ( 3830/6635 ) of group i and 41.6 % ( 195/469 ) of group ii patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . overall perioperative mortality rate was 2.1 % for group i and 6.8 % for group ii ( p less than 0.05 ) . perioperative myocardial infarction rate was similar for the two groups . ventricular and supraventricular arrhythmias , renal insufficiency , neurologic complications , prolonged ventilatory support , increased hospital cost , and prolonged hospitalization were significantly more prevalent ( all p less than 0.05 ) in patients older than 75 years . five and 10 years postoperatively , there were no significant differences between groups i and ii with regard to event-free status including angina , myocardial infarction , and reoperation . the 5-year survival rate was 92 % for group i and 80 % for group ii ( p less than 0.05 ) , similar to that of age-matched control subjects . the significantly increased potential for complications and expense of coronary bypass in patients over 75 years of age mandates judicious patient selection and preoperative counseling . despite a significantly increased early mortality and an anticipated decreased long-term survival paralleling normal life table survival curves , good intermediate functional improvement can be realized in patients older than 75 years , comparable with that expected in a much younger age group . 
thromboexclusion of the right ventricle in children with pulmonary atresia and intact ventricular septum . twelve children with pulmonary atresia and intact ventricular septum underwent closure of the tricuspid valve as a part of a new surgical procedure . in two cases a concomitant fontan operation was performed . in each patient the right ventricle was very small and right ventricular pressure was higher than systemic pressure . ventricle-coronary connections provided flow of desaturated blood from the right ventricle into the coronary arteries in 11 of 12 cases . five of the 12 children did not survive operation and postmortem examination of each revealed severe acute and chronic myocardial ischemic damage and high-grade obstruction or interruption of the proximal left anterior descending coronary artery . preoperative angiography demonstrated occlusive changes in the coronary arteries , resulting in right ventricular dependent circulation , in all five children who died and in one child who survived operation . seven children who survived operation are well 4 months to 3.5 years later . two have undergone subsequent successful fontan operation and two others are considered suitable candidates for this operation . tricuspid valve closure is recommended for a carefully selected group of infants with pulmonary atresia and intact ventricular septum provided a right ventricular-dependent coronary circulation can be excluded on the basis of preoperative coronary cineangiography . 
left ventricular mechanics of ejecting , postischemic hearts during left ventricular circulatory assistance . we measured the effects of left ventricular circulatory assistance on ventricular mechanics of ejecting sheep hearts before and after global ischemia . flows from left atrium to femoral artery ranged between 20 and 100 ml/kg/min during circulatory assistance . in preischemic , ejecting hearts increasing flow through the left ventricular assist device progressively decreased stroke volume , end-diastolic volume , and circumferential systolic wall stress , but only slightly decreased end-systolic volume . in postischemic , ejecting hearts left ventricular assistance progressively and substantially decreased both end-diastolic volume and end-systolic volume ; at high flows , end-systolic volume returned to the normal range of preischemic hearts . high flows through the assist device also shifted end-systolic points of pressure-volume loops leftward and increased the stroke work/end-diastolic volume ratio in ejecting postischemic hearts ; these observations raise the possibility that left ventricular circulatory assistance acutely improves myocardial contractility of postischemic hearts . 
evolution of human cardiac myocyte dimension during prolonged mechanical support . in animal models using left ventricular assist systems over long time periods , myocardial cellular atrophy has been reported , raising concern that prolonged clinical use of such systems might lead to deterioration in left ventricular function . at the university of pittsburgh , long-term clinical use of the novacor ( baxter healthcare corp. , novacor div. , oakland , calif. ) left ventricular support system for patients awaiting heart transplants has allowed study of the effects of long-term mechanical support on human subjects . this study determined that cardiac myocyte dimension is initially greater in patients with end-stage cardiac disease who require support rather than in patients with the same disease who do not require such support . although myocyte dimension does decrease within a few days of the inception of support , this decrease merely brings cell size closer to the values usual in patients with chronic end-stage cardiac disease , and no further shrinkage is observed . thus the novacor left ventricular assist system does not appear associated with left ventricular atrophy , and its long-term use may not be detrimental to left ventricular function . 
overdose reperfusion of blood cardioplegic solution . a preventable cause of postischemic myocardial depression . reperfusion of warm blood cardioplegic solution is useful in minimizing reperfusion damage after ischemia . this study tests the hypothesis that overzealous administration of blood cardioplegic solution at reperfusion counteracts these benefits and can lead to a prevalence of depressed ventricular performance and mortality similar to that seen after normal blood reperfusion . thirty-one dogs underwent 45 minutes of 37 degrees c global ischemia on vented bypass . six received normal blood reperfusion and 25 were reperfused with a warm aspartate/glutamate-enriched blood cardioplegic solution ; of these , eight received high-dose ( 3600 + / - 600 ml ) and 17 received limited-dose ( 1180 + / - 120 ml ) blood cardioplegic reperfusion over 10 to 20 minutes . high-dose blood cardioplegic perfusion ( 5100 + / - 200 ml ) without prior ischemia was tested in an additional five dogs . high-dose blood cardioplegia without preceding ischemia did not alter ventricular function ( peak stroke work index 96 % of control ) . after ischemia , normal blood reperfusion ( no cardioplegia ) resulted in marked left ventricular dysfunction ( peak stroke work index 36 % of control , p less than 0.05 versus control ) and a 33 % mortality rate ( 2/6 died ) . high-dose cardioplegic reperfusion yielded marginal recovery of stroke work index ( 40 % of control , p less than 0.05 versus control ) and a 25 % mortality rate ( 2/8 died ) . in contrast , limited-dose reperfusion of blood cardioplegic solution allowed 100 % survival ( 17/17 ) and restored stroke work index to 90 % of control ( 1.3 versus 1.45 gm.m / kg ) . we conclude that reperfusion damage can be avoided by initial reoxygenation with limited doses of substrate-enriched blood cardioplegic solution . conversely , high-dose reperfusion of blood cardioplegic solution offsets this benefit , reduces recovery substantially , and may be lethal . 
studies of controlled reperfusion after ischemia . xxi . reperfusate composition : superiority of blood cardioplegia over crystalloid cardioplegia in limiting reperfusion damage -- importance of endogenous oxygen free radical scavengers in red blood cells . postischemic damage is caused partially by oxygen free radical-mediated injury . this study will show that ( 1 ) crystalloid cardioplegia with room air oxygen is deleterious because it is devoid of free radical scavengers and ( 2 ) blood cardioplegia limits damage because it contains endogenous free radical scavengers in red blood cells . methods : thirty-two dogs underwent 2 hours of ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery followed by 20 minutes of regional blood cardioplegic reperfusion on bypass . ten dogs received only the blood cardioplegic solution ( containing its endogenous free radical scavengers ) ; five received initial blood cardioplegia ( 5 minutes ) with endogenous free radical scavengers ( catalase and glutathione peroxidase ) blocked by aminotriazole and n-ethylmaleimide , respectively ; 12 received initial crystalloid cardioplegic solution oxygenated by room air ( oxygen tension = 150 mm hg ) ; seven without and five with exogenous free radical scavengers ( superoxide dismutase , catalase , coenzyme q10 ) ; five received initial deoxygenated crystalloid cardioplegic solution ( oxygen tension = 6 mm hg ) ; and five received deoxygenated crystalloid cardioplegic solution . results : blood cardioplegia with endogenous free radical scavengers produced the best recovery of systolic shortening ( 69 % systolic shortening ) and resulted in the least histochemical damage ( 11 % triphenyltetrazolium chloride nonstaining ) . the worst recovery and most damage occurred if blood cardioplegia was preceded by oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegia ( 3 % systolic shortening , 48 % triphenyltetrazolium chloride nonstaining ; p less than 0.05 versus blood cardioplegia ) or if free radical scavengers were blocked in the initial period of blood cardioplegia ( 3 % systolic shortening , 41 % triphenyltetrazolium chloride nonstaining ; p less than 0.05 versus blood cardioplegia ) . conversely , deoxygenation or supplementation of oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegic solution with exogenous free radical scavengers restored 60 % systolic shortening ( p less than 0.05 versus oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegia ) and 54 % systolic shortening ( p less than 0.05 versus oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegia ) and reduced damage to 34 % and 21 % ( both p less than 0.05 versus oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegia ) . conclusion : blood cardioplegic solutions containing their own endogenous free radical scavengers are superior to crystalloid cardioplegic solutions , because they limit oxygen-mediated perfusion damage and restore contractile function . initial crystalloid cardioplegic washout negates the salutary effect of blood cardioplegia . exogenous free radical scavenger supplementation or deoxygenation of the cardioplegic reperfusate is necessary only if crystalloid cardioplegia is used . 
relation of central obesity and insulin resistance with high diabetes prevalence and cardiovascular risk in south asians . the hypothesis that the high mortality from coronary heart disease ( chd ) in south asians settled overseas compared with other populations is due to metabolic disturbances related to insulin resistance was tested in a population survey of 3193 men and 561 women aged 40-69 years in london , uk . the sample was assembled from industrial workforces and general practitioners ' lists . in comparison with the european group , the south asian group had a higher prevalence of diabetes ( 19 % vs 4 % ) , higher blood pressures , higher fasting and post-glucose serum insulin concentrations , higher plasma triglyceride , and lower hdl cholesterol concentrations . mean waist-hip girth ratios and trunk skinfolds were higher in the south asian than in the european group . within each ethnic group waist-hip ratio was correlated with glucose intolerance , insulin , blood pressure , and triglyceride . these results confirm the existence of an insulin resistance syndrome , prevalent in south asian populations and associated with a pronounced tendency to central obesity in this group . control of obesity and greater physical activity offer the best chances for prevention of diabetes and chd in south asian people . 
hyperinsulinaemia and microvascular angina ( " syndrome x " ) glucose and insulin responses to a glucose load in 11 patients with angina attributed to microvascular coronary dysfunction were compared with those in 11 healthy subjects matched for age , sex , and body mass . stimulated hyperinsulinaemia was demonstrated in the microvascular angina group . the findings suggest a role for increased concentrations of insulin in coronary microvascular dysfunction . 
infiltration of epinephrine in tonsillectomy : a randomized , prospective , double-blind study . a variety of hemostatic agents and techniques have been used in an attempt to reduce intraoperative blood loss and postoperative bleeding in tonsillectomy . the efficacy of most of these substances and techniques has been judged primarily on clinical impressions . because of the paucity of prospective studies , a randomized , prospective , double-blind study , using the patients as their own controls , was conducted . ninety-two patients were injected before tonsillectomy in a random , double-blind fashion with normal saline solution in one tonsil and 1:100,000 epinephrine in the other . the blood loss , time of dissection , and postoperative bleeding were recorded separately for each tonsil . cardiac manifestations were also monitored . the tonsils injected with epinephrine had a statistically significant reduction in blood loss and dissection time when compared with those injected with normal saline . subjectively , dissection was easier on the epinephrine-injected side . there was no difference in the incidence of postoperative hemorrhage . cardiac manifestations of epinephrine were minimal and transient . this study demonstrates that epinephrine is useful in reducing hemorrhage during tonsillectomy and can be used safely with the appropriate inhalation anesthetics . 
twelve-year comparison of a bjork-shiley mechanical heart valve with porcine bioprostheses background . patients undergoing heart-valve replacement may receive a mechanical prosthesis , necessitating lifelong anticoagulant treatment , or a porcine bioprosthesis , which involves no absolute need for anticoagulants . methods . we carried out a randomized , prospective trial to compare the durability of the bjork-shiley mechanical prosthesis ( spherical tilting-disk model ) and the incidence of valve-related complications with those variables in the hancock and the carpentier-edwards porcine prostheses . the mitral valve was replaced in 261 patients , the aortic valve in 211 , and both in 61 ; the survivors have been followed up for a mean of 12 years . results . we found a trend toward improved actuarial survival after 12 years with the bjork-shiley prosthesis , but this trend was not statistically significant ( group with bjork-shiley valve vs. group with porcine valve [ mean + / - se ] , 51.5 + / - 3.2 vs. 44.4 + / - 3.2 percent ; p = 0.08 ) . there was no significant difference in the actuarial incidence of reoperation after 5 years , but after 12 years significantly more patients with a porcine prosthesis had undergone reoperation ( 8.5 + / - 2.0 vs. 37.1 + / - 4.1 percent , p less than 0.001 ) . an analysis combining death and reoperation as end points for an actuarial assessment of survival with the original prosthesis intact confirmed that the patients with bjork-shiley shiley prostheses had improved survival ( 48.6 + / - 3.2 vs. 30.0 + / - 3.0 percent after 12 years , p less than 0.001 ) . bleeding requiring hospitalization or blood transfusion was significantly more frequent in the patients with bjork-shiley prostheses ( 18.6 + / - 3.2 vs. 7.1 + / - 2.3 percent after 12 years , p less than 0.01 ) . there was no significant difference after 12 years in the actuarial occurrence of embolism ( bjork-shiley vs. porcine , 21.1 + / - 3.1 vs. 26.4 + / - 3.5 percent ) or endocarditis ( 3.7 + / - 1.4 vs 4.6 + / - 1.6 percent ) . conclusions . survival with an intact valve is better among patients with the bjork-shiley spherical tilting-disk prosthesis than among patients with porcine bioprostheses , but use of the bjork-shiley valve carries an attendant increased risk of bleeding associated with the need for anticoagulant treatment . 
lateral medullary infarction : prognosis in an unselected series . we describe the acute and long-term prognosis in 43 patients with lateral medullary infarction ( lmi ) collected from a population-based stroke registry from 1982 to july 1988 . mean age was 63.9 years and median time of follow-up was 33 months . in the acute phase , 5 patients ( 11.6 % ) died from respiratory and cardiovascular complications and 2 new strokes occurred , both in the posterior circulation . during follow-up , recurrent vertebrobasilar territory strokes occurred in only 2 patients ( a rate of 1.9 % per year ) . the mechanisms of stroke were vertebral artery ( va ) branch occlusion , causing a medial medullary syndrome , and basilar artery thrombosis propagating from a contralateral , distal va stenosis . in the acute phase of lmi , respiratory and cardiovascular events , presumably caused by autonomic dysfunction related to the lateral medullary lesion , are the major hazards . recurrent posterior circulation strokes were uncommon during follow-up . 
myotonic heart disease : a clinical follow-up . we followed 37 patients with myotonic dystrophy for a mean of 6 years . two developed atrial flutter or fibrillation , 6 developed a new bundle branch block , 1 developed complete heart block requiring a pacemaker , and another with progressive 1st-degree heart block and a widening qrs interval had a sudden death . most patients had predictable , gradually progressive disease of their cardiac conduction system . we recommend that patients with progressive atrioventricular block or widening qrs interval due to myotonic heart disease have yearly ecgs and be questioned about syncope or presyncope to determine the need for a cardiac pacemaker . 
vascular abnormalities in epidermal nevus syndrome . we report a patient with epidermal nevus syndrome and right hemispheric infarct and review 3 others with neurologic manifestations best explained by ischemia or hemorrhage . each had a significant vascular abnormality such as occlusion or blood vessel dysplasia . none had hemimegalencephaly . we hypothesize that underlying vascular dysplasia is the cause of the neurologic lesions in these patients . 
cerebral air embolism treated by pressure and hyperbaric oxygen . we used pressure and hyperbaric oxygen to treat 2 patients with cerebral air embolism , occurring as the result of invasive medical procedures , and neither suffered any permanent damage detectable by clinical examination and mri . this outcome contrasts with reports of infarct and disability among untreated victims of air embolism . 
abdominal aneurysms in childhood : report of a case and review of the literature . abdominal aneurysms are rare in children and are usually found in association with congenital cardiac or aortic malformations , connective tissue disorders , trauma , or previous arterial catheter placement . a 4-year-old girl who had a common iliac artery aneurysm , who had no history of arterial catheter placement or trauma , and who had no evidence of marfan 's or ehlers-danlos syndrome , arteritis , coarctation of the aorta , or other diseases associated with childhood aneurysms is presented . resection of the aneurysm and arterial reconstruction were performed without the use of prosthetic material or vein graft . pathologic examination showed no evidence of inflammation or medial degeneration in any of the layers of the arterial wall . this is the fourth report found in the literature of documented idiopathic abdominal aneurysm in a child . the conditions associated with abdominal aneurysms in childhood are discussed , and the literature is reviewed . 
increased sensitivity to endotoxemia by tissue necrosis . in this study the interaction of endotoxemia and ischemic organ injury was investigated in a rat model . animals received lipopolysaccharide to induce endotoxemia and were simultaneously subjected to renal ischemia . if only renal ischemia was induced , moderate azotemia occurred and all animals survived . lipopolysaccharide treatment caused neither renal failure nor death . however , rats with both endotoxemia and renal ischemia showed severe azotemia , and 50 % of the animals died within 48 hours . the observed mortality rate is unlikely related to renal failure since animals subjected to bilateral nephrectomy did not die within 48 hours after treatment with lipopolysaccharide . to further exclude the role of renal failure in the enhanced effect of endotoxemia , experiments were performed in which ischemic kidneys were excised from littermates and were placed in the abdomens of lipopolysaccharide-treated animals . a similar effect was observed : 50 % of the animals died within 48 hours . azotemia did not occur . since tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) is an important cytokine involved in endotoxemia-induced morbidity and death , we studied the role of tnf in our model . plasma levels of tnf were increased during endotoxemia . concomitant renal ischemic injury did not influence the concentration of tnf . when animals were treated with recombinant tnf and were subsequently subjected to renal ischemic injury , again a 50 % mortality was observed , a rate similar to that in lipopolysaccharide-treated animals . we conclude that the sensitivity to endotoxemia is enhanced by tissue necrosis and may lead to death in the experimental model used in this study . 
hepatocellular carcinoma with tumor thrombus extending into the right atrium : report of a successful resection with the use of cardiopulmonary bypass . hepatocellular carcinoma with a tumor thrombus extending into the right atrium has been considered beyond the reach of resection . these patients usually die within a short period because of pulmonary embolism , heart failure , or cancer progression . the only treatment is hepatic resection with removal of the tumor thrombus . a 38-year-old woman underwent left lobectomy with removal of the tumor thrombus with the use of cardiopulmonary bypass . the patient had an uneventful course and is doing well 15 months after surgery , without signs of recurrence . we have proved that hepatic resection with removal of a tumor thrombus extending into the right atrium can be carried out successfully . the next problem is whether the lives of these patients can be prolonged by this operation . 
intercostal arteriovenous fistula due to pleural biopsy a 32 year old woman had a pleural biopsy for a left pleural effusion , which showed caseating granuloma typical of tuberculosis . when the fourth biopsy specimen was removed considerable bleeding occurred from the puncture site . four days later a bruit was audible over the punctured area , radiating to the back . eight days after the procedure the patient had a massive bleed into the left pleural space . selective aortic angiography showed an arteriovenous fistula between the 9th intercostal artery and vein and a pseudoaneurysm in the intercostal punctured area . thoracotomy showed bleeding from the site of the pleural biopsy . the intercostal vessels were ligated and pleural decortication was performed , and the patient recovered uneventfully . 
chylothorax secondary to obstruction of the superior vena cava : a complication of the leveen shunt . a case of thrombosis of the superior vena cava was complicated by bilateral chylothoraces and a widened mediastinum . removal of a clotted leveen shunt led to prompt resolution of the obstruction and chylothoraces . 
controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs in pregnancy . it is taken for granted that severe hypertension in pregnancy should be treated , although the principle has not been formally tested by properly controlled trials . there is less certainty about treating mild to moderate hypertension ( 140/90 to 169/109 mm hg ) . the risk of chronic hypertension in pregnancy depends on that of superimposed preeclampsia , which must be prevented by control of the blood pressure if antihypertensive treatment is to be beneficial . there is not a priori reason why lowering the blood pressure should have this effect . most of the trials of treatment have been too small to provide conclusive answers . usually treatment has been started too late to give a realistic expectation of influencing the evolution of superimposed preeclampsia . however , the largest trial of the early use of methyldopa in women with mild chronic hypertension , showed clearly that treatment does not prevent the superimposition of preeclampsia . beta-adrenergic blocking agents , if used from the second start of the trimester , are associated with a major risk of severe growth retardation and are therefore contraindicated . methyldopa has the best safety record , which includes long-term follow-up to assess the development of children exposed to methyldopa in utero . the ineffectiveness of antihypertensive drugs in preventing or ameliorating preeclampsia needs to be contrasted with the consistent evidence for the effectiveness of antiplatelet therapy . this is consistent with the increasing evidence that preeclampsia is not primarily , or even necessarily , a hypertensive disease . 
enalapril-associated anemia in renal transplant recipients treated for hypertension . we encountered a renal transplant recipient who developed an unexplained 0.09 decrease in hematocrit value while taking enalapril for hypertension , which reversed when the drug was stopped . this experience , and a previous similar case report , prompted a review of all our 27 transplant patients treated with enalapril . of these , 10 patients ( 37 % ) had developed an otherwise unaccounted for anemia : the pre-enalapril hematocrit value was 0.42 + / - 0.01 and it decreased to the nadir value of 0.33 + / - 0.01 ( p less than 0.001 ) within 12.3 + / - 0.9 weeks after initiation of 9 + / - 2.4 mg of enalapril daily ; enalapril was stopped in seven patients and their anemia resolved within 9.1 + / - 0.7 weeks to a final hematocrit value of 0.40 + / - 0.01 . the remaining three patients were maintained on enalapril at their physicians ' discretion , without further decrease in hematocrit values . no appreciable changes in drug regimens , clinical course , or other laboratory parameters were noted during this period . a causal relationship between enalapril and anemia was suggested by the effect of drug withdrawal and rechallenge on hematocrit in one of the patients . there were no statistically significant differences in baseline clinical and laboratory characteristics between those patients who did ( group i ) and those who did not ( group ii ) develop enalapril-associated anemia , with the exception of a normal hematocrit value of 0.42 + / - 0.01 in group i versus a lower hematocrit value of 0.36 + / - 0.02 in group ii ( p less than 0.05 ) . we conclude that enalapril should be considered in the differential diagnosis of anemia following renal transplantation . susceptibility to this effect might emanate from the immunosuppressed state . 
renal hemodynamics in normal and hypertensive pregnancy : lessons from micropuncture . rats are an excellent animal model in which to study the changes in renal hemodynamics associated with normal pregnancy . midterm pregnant rats exhibit a maximal renal vasodilation leading to increases in glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) and renal plasma flow ( rpf ) . micropuncture studies in midterm pregnant munich-wistar rats have shown that single-nephron gfr ( sngfr ) increases , due entirely to increases in plasma flow and , importantly , glomerular capillary blood pressure ( pgc ) remains unchanged in normotensive pregnancy , due to parallel and proportionally similar reductions in preglomerular ( ra ) and efferent ( re ) arteriolar resistance . despite the chronic gestational renal vasodilation , pregnancy in normotensive rats with either normal kidneys or a variety of underlying diseases , causes no adverse changes in renal function , perhaps because the glomeruli are protected from damaging high pgc . in the presence of systemic hypertension , the renal vasodilation of pregnancy could put the maternal kidney at risk of injury due to increases in pgc . there are few renal functional studies in preexisting , essential hypertension , but micropuncture studies in spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shrs ) have shown that repetitive pregnancies in shrs cause no functional impairment . surprisingly , shrs demonstrated no gestational renal vasodilation , although gestational decreases in peripheral resistance certainly occur in the shr . this absence of gestational renal vasodilation may be a protective mechanism ; it remains to be determined whether hypertensive states in which renal vasodilation does occur are associated with increased risk to the maternal kidney . 
reduction of cardiovascular disease-related mortality among postmenopausal women who use hormones : evidence from a national cohort . a national sample of 1944 white menopausal women greater than or equal to 55 years old from the epidemiologic follow-up of participants in the national health and nutrition examination survey was reviewed to investigate the role of hormone therapy in altering the risk of death from cardiovascular disease . women in the study were observed for up to 16 years after the baseline survey in 1971 to 1975 . by 1987 631 women had died ; 347 of these deaths were due to cardiovascular disease . history of diabetes ( relative risk , 2.38 ; 95 % confidence interval 1.73 to 3.26 ) , previous myocardial infarction ( relative risk , 2.12 ; 95 % confidence interval 1.56 to 2.86 ) , smoking ( relative risk , 2.18 ; 95 % confidence interval , 1.69 to 2.81 ) , and elevated blood pressure ( relative risk , 1.49 ; 95 % confidence interval , 1.14 to 1.94 ) were strong predictors of cardiovascular disease-related death in this cohort . after adjusting for known cardiovascular disease risk factors ( smoking , cholesterol , body mass index , blood pressure , previous myocardial infarction , history of diabetes , age ) and education , the use of postmenopausal hormones was associated with a reduced risk of death from cardiovascular disease ( relative risk , 0.66 ; 95 % confidence interval , 0.48 to 0.90 ) . the same protective effect provided by postmenopausal hormone therapy was seen in women who experienced natural menopause ( relative risk , 0.69 ; 95 % confidence interval , 0.45 to 1.06 ) . 
endothelial-derived relaxing factor released by endothelial cells of human umbilical vessels and its impairment in pregnancy-induced hypertension . the principal objective of this study was to determine and compare the capability of human umbilical vessels of normal and pregnancy-induced hypertensive parturients to produce and to release the endothelial-derived relaxing factor . a bolus of bradykinin injected in the perfusion system of human umbilical vessels induces a release of a relaxant factor , detectable by bioassay , that is pharmacologically similar to the endothelial-derived relaxing factor . human umbilical cords were collected from normal and pregnancy-induced hypertensive parturients . in the latter group the release of endothelial-derived relaxing factor is extremely reduced . in fact , in umbilical vessels collected from normal parturients , bradykinin at a dose of 20 pmol produces a release of endothelial-derived relaxing factor equivalent to a relaxation induced by 59.9 + / - 11.0 and 30.8 + / - 11.4 pmol of glyceryl trinitrate for the artery and vein , respectively . the same dose of bradykinin in umbilical vessels , collected from pregnancy-induced hypertensive parturients , produces a release equivalent to 6.6 + / - 2.2 and 5.7 + / - 3.5 pmol of glyceryl trinitrate equivalent for the artery and vein , respectively . neither an increasing bolus of exogenous bradykinin or an infusion of superoxide dismutase or l-arginine was able to restore the production of endothelial-derived relaxing factor to normal levels . our results indicate a probable alteration of endothelial cell numbers or an alteration of the enzymatic pathway , probably due to cytotoxic endogenous factors produced in pregnancy . 
continuous electrocardiographic monitoring in hypertensive crises in pregnancy . twenty-four patients first seen with hypertensive crises during pregnancy were studied by continuous electrocardiographic monitoring for a period of 24 hours to detect the presence of serious ventricular arrhythmias . three patients were excluded from analysis because of low serum potassium levels . thirteen of the remaining 21 patients had ventricular tachycardia on subsequent analysis of the electrocardiogram . these arrhythmias subsided after induction of anesthesia when blood pressure control was optimal . this finding may be implicated in the pathogenesis of pulmonary edema and sudden death in these patients . 
a case report of giant cell arteritis of the uterus and adnexa . giant cell arteritis of the uterus and adnexa is a rare disorder , which is generally asymptomatic and occasionally associated with temporal arteritis . the true clinical significance of this dramatic microscopic finding remains obscure , but arteritis of the uterus and adnexa may be associated with later development of giant cell arteritis elsewhere in the body . 
the prevalence of retinal vascular abnormalities in children and adolescents with essential hypertension . we studied 97 children and adolescents with essential hypertension by evaluating photographs of the optic fundus and fluorescein angiography . photographs were examined for the presence of arteriolar narrowing , tortuosity , and arteriovenous nicking . intraobserver and interobserver variability in determination of abnormalities was low with agreement of 75 % for narrowing , 90 % for tortuosity , and 100 % for arteriovenous nicking . the prevalence of abnormalities was 41 % ( 95 % confidence interval , 31 % to 50 % ) for arteriolar narrowing , 14 % ( 95 % confidence interval , 19 % to 21 % ) for tortuosity , and 8 % ( 95 % confidence interval , 5 % to 11 % ) for arteriovenous nicking . of 97 patients , 50 ( 51 % ) had one or more abnormality . retinal abnormalities are relatively common in young patients with essential hypertension . 
immunoreactivity of anti-streptococcal monoclonal antibodies to human heart valves . evidence for multiple cross-reactive epitopes . association of group a streptococci with acute rheumatic fever and valvular heart disease is well established ; however the basis of valve injury remains unclear . in this study , anti-streptococcal monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) cross-reactive with myocardium were reacted with sections from 22 rheumatic valves , nine normal , five endocarditic , one ' floppy , ' and one marfan valve . in immunohistochemical studies , mab reactivity was observed with cardiac myocytes , smooth muscle cells , cell surface and cytoplasm of endothelial cells lining valves , and valvular interstitial cells . endothelial basement membrane and elastin fibrils reacted with the mabs , whereas collagen was unreactive . similar reactivity was seen with sera from acute rheumatic fever patients . the anti-streptococcal mabs reacted with intravalvular myosin and vimentin in western blots , and purified elastin competitively inhibited the binding of the anti-streptococcal mabs to whole group a streptococci . the data show that human heart valves have numerous sites of immunoreactivity with anti-streptococcal mabs and acute rheumatic fever sera of potential importance in the pathogenesis of rheumatic valvular injury . 
detection of coxsackievirus b3 rna in myocardial tissues by the polymerase chain reaction . coxsackievirus b3 is a possible etiologic agent in some forms of myocarditis and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy . a method for the detection of coxsackievirus b3 rna was developed using the polymerase chain reaction based on the amplification of a cdna copy of the positive-strand viral rna . the fidelity of the method was established in two murine models for coxsackie b3 myocarditis . all cardiac specimens with adequate rna for study from coxsackie b3-infected mice contained detectable viral rna , in contrast to none of control specimens from noninfected mice . the sensitivity of the technique was established at approximately 1 to 100 plaque-forming units of virus per gram of tissue , and the specificity was established as limited to the coxsackievirus b3 serotype among nine viruses tested . in patients with myocarditis , one of five specimens contained detectable viral rna , whereas none of 11 specimens from patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy or 21 myocardial specimens from patients with a wide variety of other cardiac disorders contained detectable coxsackie b3 viral rna . the results show that the polymerase chain reaction is a useful means for detecting coxsackie viral rna and its application should help in the evaluation of hypotheses concerning the infectious etiology of human myocarditis and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy . 
human atherosclerotic coronary artery xenografts : a model for investigation of transluminal recanalization . a model for testing transluminal recanalization techniques was developed . fragments of human atherosclerotic coronary arteries were transplanted into carotid arteries of dogs and evaluated by angiographic , angioscopic , and histologic study within a three-month period . an inflammatory response was most intense within the first week . by two weeks no inflammation was noted . total occlusion ( n = 13 ) and stenosis ( n = 11 ) of the carotid arteries were achieved without complications . the model is easy to produce within a short period and the arterial occlusion resembles human vascular disease . this model has been used to evaluate laser recanalization of vascular obstructions . 
st segment alternans during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty -- a case report . the occurrence of electrical alternans of the st segment has been reported in patients with variant angina . the authors encountered a patient with typical electrical alternans of the st segment in leads v4 through v6 , which developed during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) of the proximal left anterior descending artery . hemodynamic pulsus alternans of the aortic pressure tracing was not observed during electrical alternans , and a ca2 + blocker could not prevent this phenomenon during ptca . 
mucoid vasculopathy of unknown etiology . a new vascular disorder with generalized deposition of abnormal amounts of acid mucopolysaccharide ( amps ) material in arteries , veins , and vasanervorum has been observed in a large number of autopsies at the author 's institution . it is unlike any of the known vascular diseases and has emerged as a distinct disorder of vascular connective tissue . this has been named " mucoid vasculopathy of unknown etiology . " this hitherto unreported entity is described here . 
giant left atrium -- a case report . a seventy-seven-year old woman , with mitral stenosis , presented with cardiomegaly evident on her chest roentgenogram . the cardiac enlargement was due to a giant left atrium that distorted the cardiac structures . an echocardiogram and a first-pass nuclear angiogram were able to delineate the huge left atrium . 
coronary artery aneurysm without stenosis in association with osler-weber-rendu disease -- a case report . a fifty-three-year-old woman presented with coronary artery aneurysm in association with osler-weber-rendu disease ( hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia ) manifested also by large pulmonary arteriovenous fistulas . the arterial dye dilution curves were unusually distorted owing to the right-to-left shunts . the coronary artery aneurysm was located in multiple sites but was not accompanied by stenotic lesions . coronary artery aneurysm without stenosis is a rare pathologic state and has not been previously reported in association with hereditary telangiectasia . 
sudden appearance of coronary thrombus observed by angiography -- a case report . a sudden coronary thrombus formation was documented by chance during cardiac catheterization in a patient with postinfarction angina . the thrombus was successfully treated with intravenous urokinase and heparin infusions , and thereafter , coronary angioplasty was performed without any complication . 
how long can a coronary reperfusion catheter be placed in acute coronary occlusion following failed transluminal coronary angioplasty ? a case report . a coronary reperfusion catheter ( crc ) is designed to preserve antegrade coronary flow when abrupt coronary closure occurs during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) . insertion of the catheter to an occluded coronary artery for a few hours has been reported to be effective for myocardial salvage : however , it is unknown how long the catheter can be kept in place without causing extension of myocardial ischemia . the authors experienced a case in which the crc was kept in place for twenty-four hours for anticoagulant therapy of an occluded coronary artery following failure of ptca . this case suggests that adequate anticoagulant therapy can prolong the period during which a crc can be kept in place if emergency coronary bypass surgery can not be performed immediately after failure of coronary angioplasty . 
spontaneous cerebral embolism from descending thoracic aortic aneurysm -- a case report . a case in which an aneurysm of the proximal descending thoracic aorta was the likely source of retrograde cerebral embolism is described . atherosclerotic disease of the descending thoracic aorta should be considered as an unusual source of cerebral emboli . 
unilateral diffuse pulmonary artery involvement in takayasu 's arteritis associated with coronary-pulmonary artery fistula and bronchial-pulmonary artery fistula : a case report . diffuse involvement of the right pulmonary artery associated with fistulas between the pulmonary artery and systemic artery is reported in a woman with takayasu 's arteritis . the most proximal portion of the abdominal aorta was pronouncedly narrowed and the aortic wall was markedly calcified . both the celiac artery and the superior mesenteric artery were totally occluded and drained by the meandering artery arising from the inferior mesenteric artery . the proximal right pulmonary artery was focally narrowed and the middle lobe artery was occluded . all other branches of the right pulmonary artery were diffusely narrowed with sparse distributions of their distal branches . fistulas were identified between the right coronary artery and the right pulmonary artery and between the right bronchial artery and the right pulmonary artery . this is the first english report of takayasu 's arteritis presenting with a coronary-pulmonary artery fistula that is secondary to a diffuse unilateral involvement of the pulmonary artery . 
long-term evaluation of indobufen in peripheral vascular disease . indobufen -- an inhibitor of platelets aggregation -- has been used in 306 patients with intermittent claudication due to peripheral vascular disease . patients were treated and followed up for one year . one patient of every 3 treated with indobufen was treated with asa , and a control group of patients receiving no treatment was also followed up . the authors studied by means of a treadmill exercise test the pain-free walking distance ( pfwd ) , the global walking distance ( gwd ) , and the recovery time after exercise . the treatment period was completed by 290 patients : 204 claudicants , 51 claudicants with diabetes , and 35 with a short pfwd and gwd ( greater than 150 m ) . indobufen was more effective than asa in improving the pfwd and gwd in all groups . there were also fewer side effects with indobufen , and cardiac morbidity and mortality was also reduced . in conclusion indobufen showed its activity and safety in chronic treatment of patients with peripheral disease , and we suggest that it may be used for long periods without side effects . 
total occlusion of the left main coronary artery in a young woman with survival : a case report . the total occlusion of the left main coronary artery ( lmca ) is rare , and the survival depends on the existence of collateral circulation . the author presents a case of total occlusion of the left main coronary artery with survival in a young woman because he thinks this is a very rare case , owing to the sex and age of the patient . 
axillary subclavian vein thrombosis . changing patterns of etiology , diagnostic , and therapeutic modalities . fifty-two patients with axillary-subclavian vein thrombosis were treated in the last 10 years and were available for follow-up for at least 1 year . eighteen of these were treated in the first 5 years , group a , and 34 in the last 5 years , group b. the causes in both group a and group b included respectively : effort or spontaneous 28 per cent and 29 per cent , catheter insertion related 17 per cent and 47 per cent , and malignancy or systemic disease 55 per cent and 24 per cent . none of the patients in group a had noninvasive vascular testing ( nit ) . however , 27 patients in group b had ipg/duplex imaging ( nit ) . all 18 cases in group a and 27 cases in group b were treated conventionally ( anticoagulants ) . seventy-three per cent of these had residual pain on exertion ( venous claudication ) and/or swelling . fourteen of these cases had posttreatment nit/venography . four of these showed total resolution of the thrombus and all were symptom free . ten had no resolution , and nine were symptomatic . seven cases in group b were treated with thrombolytic therapy . five of these had total resolution of thrombus and were symptom free ( 71 % ) . two had no resolution with residual symptoms ( 29 % ) ( statistically significant ) . in conclusion ( 1 ) more patients with axillary-subclavian vein thrombosis seen recently are catheter insertion related ; 2 ) diagnosis should be initiated with duplex imaging ; and ( 3 ) thrombolytic therapy significantly decreased residual symptoms and yielded better resolution than anticoagulants . 
ischemic colitis . an ever-changing spectrum ? ischemic colitis , or more properly colonic ischemia , became a clear clinical entity in the past 25 years . yet , early diagnosis of this disease with its various presentations remains a difficult task . a 10-year review at our hospital identified 38 patients with colonic ischemia for comparison with the authors ' previous experience and with data from the literature . several important factors emerge : ( 1 ) twice as many cases occurred after operations ( 34 % in this series vs. 16 % in the past ) , probably because fewer and fewer spontaneous cases were hospitalized . ( 2 ) sixteen patients required operative intervention for colonic ischemia with a mortality of 62 per cent , while those treated nonoperatively had a mortality of 14 per cent . seven of eight postoperative patients who required a second operative procedure for their colonic ischemia died . a high clinical suspicion is necessary in the postoperative patient , as colonic ischemia appears to be more severe among these patients . moreover , the high incidence of associated cardiovascular disease indicates that early diagnosis , as well as monitoring of the " at-risk " patient , is needed for improvement in survival to occur . new monitoring methods , such as tonometry , may help accomplish this goal . 
thromboxane synthetase inhibition decreases polymorphonuclear leukocyte activation following hindlimb ischemia . ischemia of the lower extremity has been shown to cause pulmonary leukostasis and increased pulmonary artery pressure . thromboxane ( tx ) has been implicated as a mediator in this process . the effect of oky-046 , a tx synthetase inhibitor , on polymorphonuclear leukocyte ( pmn ) production of superoxide anion ( o2 - ) as determined by ferricytochrome reduction was examined . fourteen dogs were subjected to 6 hours of bilateral gracilis muscle ischemia followed by 1 hour of reperfusion . o2 - production from resting pmns and pmns stimulated with opsonized zymosan ( oz , 0.1 mg/ml ) was measured prior to ischemia or drug treatment ( baseline ) , and following reperfusion in both treated ( n = 7 ) and control groups ( n = 7 ) . serum tx levels were measured using a radioimmunoassay . following reperfusion , tx levels in the treated group were decreased as compared with the control group ( 18 + / - 2 pg/ml vs. 72 + / - 26 pg/ml , p less than 0.05 ) . superoxide production by both resting and stimulated pmns was also decreased in the treated group ; from 0.98 + / - 0.16 nmol to 0.43 + / - 0.12 nmol o2 - in the resting state ( p less than 0.05 ) and from 13.3 + / - 1.5 nmol to 9.0 + / - 1.1 nmol o2 - after stimulation ( p less than 0.005 ) . o2 - production was increased in the control group following reperfusion as compared with baseline samples , and this increase was attenuated by treatment with oky-046 . tx synthetase inhibition decreases activation of pmns following hindlimb ischemia . 
multilevel occlusive vascular disease presenting with gangrene . the medical records of all patients subjected to lower extremity amputations during a 3-year period were reviewed . it was shown that advanced age and the presence of multiple medical problems do not predispose to higher levels of limb loss . although diabetic patients more frequently undergo amputation because of sepsis than their nondiabetic counterparts , the diabetic state was not found to be associated with a greater likelihood of above knee ( ak ) procedures . prior arterial surgery was not shown to make ak amputation more likely , but it was disconcerting to note that limb salvage was not achieved in many individuals despite patent proximal inflow revascularization procedures . this initial study showed that several presumed risk factors were not predictors of amputation level . those patients requiring ak amputations had a greater frequency of combined segment ( aortoiliac and femoropopliteal ) occlusive disease than those who had successful amputations at more distal levels . a follow-up study of 41 consecutive patients presenting with tissue loss due to combined segment occlusive disease was performed . eighteen ( group i ) underwent inflow procedures only , while 23 ( group ii ) also underwent distal revascularization . the groups were similar with respect to age , risk factors , extent of tissue loss and sepsis . at 1 year 10 ( 56 % ) group i and only 3 ( 13 % ) group ii patients required major amputation ( p = 0.01 ) . distal bypass , in addition to an inflow procedure , is recommended for those who present with tissue loss due to multilevel arterial occlusion . 
relation of left ventricular mass and geometry to morbidity and mortality in uncomplicated essential hypertension . objective : to assess the prognostic significance of left ventricular mass and geometry in initially healthy persons with essential hypertension . design : an observational study of a prospectively identified cohort . setting : university medical center . patients : two hundred and eighty patients with essential hypertension and no pre-existing cardiac disease were evaluated using echocardiography between 1976 and 1981 . two hundred and fifty-three subjects or their family members ( 90 % ) were contacted for a follow-up interview an average of 10.2 years after the initial echocardiogram was obtained ; the survival status of 27 patients lost to follow-up was ascertained using national death index data . measurements and main results : left ventricular mass exceeded 125 g/m2 in 69 of 253 patients ( 27 % ) . cardiovascular events occurred in a higher proportion of patients with than without left ventricular hypertrophy ( 26 % compared with 12 % ; p = 0.006 ) . patients with increased ventricular mass were also at higher risk for cardiovascular death ( 14 % compared with 0.5 % ; p less than 0.001 ) and all-cause mortality ( 16 % compared with 2 % ; p = 0.001 ) . electrocardiographic left ventricular hypertrophy did not predict risk . patients with normal left ventricular geometry had the fewest adverse outcomes ( no cardiac deaths ; morbid events in 11 % ) , and those with concentric hypertrophy had the most ( death in 21 % ; morbid events in 31 % ) . in a multivariate analysis , only age and left ventricular mass -- but not gender , blood pressure , or serum cholesterol level -- independently predicted all three outcome measures . conclusions : echocardiographically determined left ventricular mass and geometry stratify risk in patients with essential hypertension independently of and more strongly than blood pressure or other potentially reversible risk factors and may help to stratify the need for intensive treatment . 
lipids , vascular disease , and dementia with advancing age . epidemiologic considerations . elevated plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease in middle-aged men and women . it is still not clear , however , whether lipid and lipoprotein abnormalities continue to be risk factors for cardiovascular disease in the elderly population . it is not even clear what normal lipid values are in the elderly , and whether diet or drug therapy should be advised on the basis of lipid values established in middle-aged populations . ischemic heart disease does remain the leading cause of death in the elderly , and there is now preliminary evidence from epidemiologic studies that relative elevations of levels of lipid and lipoprotein fractions in an elderly population might be associated with an independent and increased risk of coronary heart disease , stroke , and possibly dementia . intervention studies are about to begin that will assess various lipid-and lipoprotein-modifying therapies and their ability to reduce vascular disease risk in the elderly . 
the role of calcium channel blockers in the treatment of essential hypertension . calcium channel blockers , originally developed for the treatment of angina and supraventricular arrhythmias , have been shown to lower elevated blood pressure effectively in hypertensive patients . verapamil , nifedipine , and diltiazem represent prototype compounds for unique chemical classes with differing pharmacologic properties . these drugs lower elevated blood pressure with efficacy comparable with other commonly used antihypertensives . combination therapy with other agents usually results in an additive response . side effects are usually mild and reversible and usually are an extension of the drug 's pharmacologic effects . moreover , adverse metabolic effects on lipid , glucose , or potassium levels are not common . because of the excellent antihypertensive effects of calcium channel blockers and their potential importance in a variety of other disease states , these agents should be routinely considered for use as a first-line antihypertensive agent in appropriately selected patients with hypertension of any severity as part of a comprehensive plan to minimize cardiovascular risk . 
sensitivity of exercise electrocardiography for acute cardiac events during moderate and strenuous physical activity . the lipid research clinics coronary primary prevention trial . we determined whether the exercise electrocardiogram predicted acute cardiac events during moderate or strenuous physical activity among 3617 asymptomatic , hypercholesterolemic men ( age range , 35 to 59 years ) who were followed up in the coronary primary prevention trial . submaximal exercise test results were obtained at entry and at annual follow-up visits in years 2 through 7 . st-segment depression or elevation ( greater than or equal to 1 mm or 10 microv-sec ) was considered to be a positive test result . the circumstances that surrounded each nonfatal myocardial infarction and coronary heart disease death were determined through a record review . the cumulative incidence of activity-related acute cardiac events was 2 % during a mean follow-up period of 7.4 years . the risk was increased 2.6-fold in the presence of clinically silent , exercise-induced , st-segment changes at entry ( 95 % confidence interval [ cl ] , 1.3 to 5.2 ) after adjustment for 11 other potential risk factors . of 62 men who experienced an activity-related event , 11 had a positive test result at entry ( sensitivity , 18 % ; 95 % cl , 8 to 27 ) . the specificity of the entry exercise test was 92 % ( 95 % cl , 91 to 93 ) . the sensitivity and specificity were similar when the length of follow-up was restricted to 1 year after testing . for a newly positive test result on a follow-up visit , the sensitivity was 24 % ( 95 % cl , 12 to 36 ) , and the specificity was 85 % ( 95 % cl , 84 to 86 ) ; for any positive test result during the study ( mean number of tests per subject , 6.2 ) , the sensitivity was 37 % ( 95 % cl , 25 to 49 ) , and the specificity was 79 % ( 95 % cl , 77 to 80 ) . our findings suggested that the presence of clinically silent , exercise-induced , ischemic st-segment changes on a submaximal test was associated with an increased risk of activity-related acute cardiac events . however , this test was not sensitive when used to predict the occurrence of activity-related events among asymptomatic , hypercholesterolemic men . for this reason , the utility of the submaximal exercise test to assess the safety of physical activity among asymptomatic men at risk of coronary heart disease is likely to be limited . 
a standard heparin nomogram for the management of heparin therapy . a nomogram for the adjustment of heparin dosage was developed to standardize heparin therapy and to reduce delays in achieving and maintaining a therapeutic activated partial thromboplastin time ( aptt ) result . fifty consecutive patients with acute venous thromboembolism had their continuous intravenous heparin therapy adjusted according to this heparin nomogram . the effect of the nomogram on heparin therapy in these patients was compared with data from 53 historical control patients . the proportion of patients in the nomogram group who reached a therapeutic aptt at 24 hours after the start of heparin therapy was 66 % , which increased to 81 % at 48 hours . in contrast , 37 % and 58 % of the control patients reached a therapeutic aptt at 24 and 48 hours , respectively . the percentage of therapeutic aptt results of the total number of aptt determinations was greater in the nomogram patients than controls . the use of this heparin nomogram resulted in ( 1 ) achieving a therapeutic aptt at 24 and 48 hours in a large proportion of patients and ( 2 ) reduced periods of inadequate anticoagulation and overanticoagulation during heparin therapy . 
ventricular tachycardia during routine treadmill testing . risk and prognosis . exercise-induced ventricular tachycardia during exercise testing is considered to increase risk during testing . moreover , exercise-induced ventricular tachycardia has been considered to confer a poor prognosis although this has not been specifically studied . on a retrospective review of 3351 patients who had undergone routine clinical exercise testing between september 1984 and june 1989 , we identified 55 patients with exercise-induced ventricular tachycardia . the mean follow-up was 26 months ( range , 2 to 58 months ) . fifty patients had nonsustained ventricular tachycardia during exercise testing and one of these patients died due to congestive heart failure during the follow-up period . five patients had sustained ventricular tachycardia during exercise testing and one died suddenly 7 months after the test . ventricular tachycardia was reproduced in only two of the 29 patients who underwent repeated exercise testing . ventricular tachycardia during routine clinical exercise testing occurred rarely ( prevalence of 1.5 % ) and was not associated with complications during testing . the total mortality in the exercise-induced ventricular tachycardia group ( 3.6 % ) was not significantly different from the mortality in the entire population ( 5.1 % ) . nonsustained ventricular tachycardia occurring during clinical exercise testing is not an independent marker of a poor prognosis . 
short-term changes in renal function , blood pressure , and electrolyte levels in patients receiving cyclosporine for dermatologic disorders . we compared the changes in renal function , blood pressure ( bp ) , and concentrations of serum potassium , magnesium , and urate ( uric acid ) in two groups of patients not given transplants . group 1 , comprising 21 psoriatic patients , was treated with 14 mg/kg per day of oral cyclosporine for 4 weeks in a prospective , placebo-controlled study ; group 2 , comprising 28 patients with diverse cutaneous diseases , was given 6 mg/kg per day of oral cyclosporine for 1 to 3 months in a prospective , open-labeled study . renal function ( determined by serum urea nitrogen [ sun ] and creatinine levels and urinalysis ) , bp , serum electrolyte levels ( potassium and magnesium ) , and urate level were measured weekly for the first 4 weeks in both groups , and then , after 2 and 3 months of therapy , in group 2 only . during the first 4 weeks in group 1 patients , there were significant increases in values of sun , creatinine , bp , potassium , and urate , and a significant decrease in the serum magnesium value . when data for the two groups were combined , the changes from pretherapy values in each of the above measures ( except systolic bp ) during the first 4 weeks correlated significantly with cyclosporine trough levels . in group 2 , the changes that occurred in the first 4 weeks in the sun value , sun/creatinine ratio , and bp were magnified over the subsequent 8 weeks of treatment . in the combined group for the first 4 weeks of therapy , duration of therapy , independent of cyclosporine trough levels , correlated with changes in sun , creatinine , and urate levels , but not with changes in the potassium or magnesium level or in bp . we conclude that the cyclosporine blood level was a better discriminant than cyclosporine dosage in the analysis of renal dysfunction and hypertension in these patients . 
giant cell arteritis . a case with unusual neurologic manifestations and a normal sedimentation rate . giant cell ( temporal ) arteritis is a serious inflammatory condition that can lead to blindness , stroke , or other adverse sequelae if not properly treated . an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate has traditionally been emphasized as a criterion for making this diagnosis . delays in diagnosis and unnecessary testing may occur when a patient presents with a normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate and a clinical history consistent with this condition . we describe a patient with giant cell arteritis who presented with a normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate and who subsequently developed devastating central nervous system complications . 
occlusive vasculopathy in systemic lupus erythematosus . association with anticardiolipin antibody patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and with antiphospholipid antibody are subject to sudden occlusion of multiple blood vessels . we describe two patients with systemic lupus erythematosus with acute , catastrophic , widespread non-inflammatory visceral vascular occlusions associated with high-titer antiphospholipid antibody . the histopathologic features clearly distinguished these patients from classic systemic lupus erythematosus vasculitis . we further suggest that , based on a probable pathogenesis related to the presence of antiphospholipid antibody , and based on the non-inflammatory vascular occlusion , steroids and other immunosuppressive medications are of limited value . plasmapheresis along with anticoagulant therapy should be considered . 
prognostic value of reduced heart rate variability after myocardial infarction : clinical evaluation of a new analysis method . the relation between heart rate variability , measured from standard 24 hour electrocardiogram recordings in patients convalescent after a myocardial infarction , and the occurrence of sudden death and spontaneous , symptomatic , sustained ventricular tachycardia were assessed in a consecutive series of 177 patients admitted with acute myocardial infarction and surviving to 7 days . in addition to the analysis of heart rate variability , the occurrence of non-sustained arrhythmias on 24 hour electrocardiographic monitoring , and the results of clinical assessment , signal averaged electrocardiography and ejection fraction were analysed and were related to outcome . during a median of 16 months of follow up ( range 10-30 months ) there were 17 end point events ( 11 ( 6.2 % ) sudden deaths ) and six ( 3.4 % ) episodes of sustained ventricular tachycardia . an index of the width of the frequency distribution curve for the duration of individual rr intervals was used to measure heart rate variability . this mean ( sd ) index was significantly smaller in those with end point events ( 16.8 ( 8.0 ) ) than in those without events ( 29.0 ( 11.2 ) ) . the relative risk of the occurrence of an end point event in those with a heart rate variability index less than 25 was 7.0 . multivariate analysis showed that of all the variables examined a reduced heart rate variability index was the single most powerful predictor of end point events . measurement of heart rate variability by this simple , automated , operator-independent method provided useful information on the arrhythmic propensity in patients convalescent after myocardial infarction . 
direct measurement of skeletal muscle fatigue in patients with chronic heart failure . skeletal muscle function was measured as force production and fatigue in both the quadriceps ( a large locomotive muscle ) and adductor pollicis ( a small intrinsic hand muscle ) in five healthy volunteers , five patients with mild chronic heart failure , and five patients with severe chronic heart failure . the quadriceps of patients with chronic heart failure had a reduced muscle cross sectional area , a reduced maximum isometric force production , and an increased tendency to fatigue . isometric force production and fatigue of the adductor pollicis , however , were not significantly different between the three groups under control conditions . but during circulatory occlusion fatigue in the adductor pollicis increased more in the patients with severe chronic heart failure . these differing findings in quadriceps and adductor pollicis suggest that skeletal muscle atrophy and reduced isometric force production are not a necessary consequence of chronic heart failure per se , because they were only present in the large locomotive muscle . the normal values for muscle fatigue observed in adductor pollicis in patients with chronic heart failure imply that skeletal muscle blood flow must increase normally during muscle activation when only a small muscle mass is used . these results are not compatible with the concept of a generalised impairment of normal vasodilatation within active skeletal muscle . in contrast , activation of a large muscle , such as quadriceps , results in the rapid onset of fatigue in patients with severe chronic heart failure . this fatigue may be related to the inability of the cardiovascular system to provide the required blood flow for the activation of a large muscle mass . 
an echocardiographic assessment of atrial mechanical behaviour . relations between movement of the atrioventricular ring and changes in left atrial and ventricular dimensions were studied by echocardiography and compared with apexcardiography and doppler mitral flow velocity traces in 20 healthy controls and in patients with left ventricular hypertrophy ( n = 28 ) or dilatation ( n = 16 ) . during left ventricular systole the atrioventricular ring , a structure common to ventricle and atrium , moved towards the ventricular apex , thus increasing left atrial volume . this action matched pulmonary venous return because it was in phase with the transverse left atrial dimension measured from aortic root to posterior left atrial wall . during early diastole , the mitral ring moved rapidly towards the atrium as transmitral flow accelerated . this requires a force directed from ventricle to atrium , likely to be the result of elastic recoil arising from compression of the ventricular myocardium or stretching of the atrial myocardium during ventricular systole . two additional mechanisms of ventricular filling with atrial systole were recognised : ( a ) an increase in ventricular volume as the atrioventricular ring moved upwards and ( b ) transverse left ventricular expansion by pressure driven transmitral flow . the former is undetectable by doppler from the apex ; it accounted for 10 % of ventricular filling in the healthy controls , but for significantly less in those with ventricular dilatation . in left ventricular hypertrophy , left ventricular filling was maintained by both mechanisms compensating for the reduced increase in volume early in diastole . interactions between the atrium and ventricle are functionally important during ventricular systole , early diastole , and in atrial systole . they are not included in the traditional separation of atrial function into reservoir , conduit , and pump functions . 
end diastolic flow velocity just beneath the aortic isthmus assessed by pulsed doppler echocardiography : a new predictor of the aortic regurgitant fraction . end diastolic flow velocity just beneath the aortic isthmus was measured within 72 hours of cardiac catheterisation by pulsed doppler echocardiography in 30 controls and 61 patients with aortic regurgitation . the end diastolic flow velocity was determined at the peak r wave on a simultaneously recorded electrocardiogram . in all controls there was no reverse flow at the end diastole beneath the aortic isthmus . in patients with aortic regurgitation the end diastolic flow velocity correlated well with the angiographic grade of regurgitation ( r = 0.81 ) and regurgitant fraction ( r = 0.82 ) . the mean ( sd ) values were 6.3 ( 5.2 ) , 12.2 ( 4.3 ) , 22.1 ( 5.7 ) , and 34.3 ( 9.3 ) cm/s for patients with regurgitant fraction of less than 20 % , between 20 % and 40 % , between 41 % and 60 % , and greater than 60 % , respectively . an end diastolic flow velocity of greater than 18 cm/s predicted a regurgitant fraction of greater than or equal to 40 % with a sensitivity of 88.5 % and a specificity of 96 % . the study suggests that the pulsed doppler derived end diastolic flow velocity is a useful index in the routine non-invasive assessment of the severity of aortic regurgitation . 
interatrial shunt flow profiles in newborn infants : a colour flow and pulsed doppler echocardiographic study . interatrial shunt flow profiles in 36 normal term infants were examined serially by colour flow and pulsed doppler echocardiographic techniques from within an hour of birth to four or five days after birth . shunt flow across the foramen ovale was detected in 33 normal infants ( 92 % ) within an hour of birth ( mean 40 minutes ) . the occurrence of interatrial shunting decreased with age , but a shunt signal was still detected in 17 infants ( 47 % ) on the fourth or fifth day of life , by then the ductus arteriosus had already closed in all the normal infants . the direction of interatrial shunt flow was predominantly left-to-right , but in 64 % there was a coexistent small right-to-left shunt in diastole within an hour of birth ; by four to five days it was found in 19 % . in the six patients with persistent fetal circulation the direction of the interatrial shunt flow was predominantly right-to-left with biphasic peaks in diastole and systole at the early stage of the disease , and the period of right-to-left shunt flow during each cardiac cycle was significantly longer than that in normal infants examined within 1 hour of birth . in all patients the ductus closed before the foramen ovale . at the time of ductal closure in all patients with persistent fetal circulation right-to-left shunt flow was seen during diastole and its period was still prolonged . these findings suggest that interatrial shunting , predominantly left-to-right , is common in normal newborn infants . 
lipomatous hypertrophy of the interatrial septum : an unusual intraoperative finding . lipomatous hypertrophy of the interatrial septum was an incidental finding in a man of 45 undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting for unstable angina . he was not overweight and did not have any rhythm disturbances . the diagnosis was made on frozen section . 
prediction of outcome by prenatal doppler analysis in a patient with aortic stenosis . stenosis of the aortic valve ( pressure drop 50 mm hg ) was diagnosed prenatally by doppler echocardiography in a 33 week old fetus . measurement of time-velocity integrals through the tricuspid and mitral valves indicated a significantly higher flow in the right heart . the pressure drop across the aortic valve in the 3 hour old infant was 80 mm hg . the findings in this patient suggest that the usually accepted theory that prenatally the ventricles function in parallel should take into account the chronology of filling and ejection . in this patient the ability of a ventricle to generate a prenatal transvalvar pressure gradient was evidence that the size , compliance , and contractility of the ventricle were sufficient to maintain good function . 
holter monitoring of ventricular arrhythmias in a randomised , controlled study of intravenous streptokinase in acute myocardial infarction . the occurrence of ventricular arrhythmias attributed to streptokinase treatment in acute myocardial infarction is not well defined . holter monitoring was performed for 24 hours in 81 patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction randomised in a ratio of 2:1 to intravenous streptokinase 1.5 x 10 ( 6 ) iu ( n = 55 ) or placebo infusion ( n = 26 ) 6.7 hours ( mean ) after the onset of symptoms . no episodes of ventricular fibrillation were recorded . for the whole 24 hour period and during the first three hours after the start of treatment the incidence and frequency of ventricular arrhythmias were similar in the patients randomised to streptokinase and to placebo . but when the results in patients randomised " early " after the onset of symptoms of suspected acute myocardial infarction were analysed separately the frequency of abnormal complexes , pairs , runs , and repetitive arrhythmias seemed to be higher in patients allocated to streptokinase . this may reflect arrhythmias associated with reperfusion . 
extrahepatic portal vein aneurysm associated with a tortuous portal vein . portal vein aneurysm is rare and its etiology is controversial . a case of extrahepatic portal vein aneurysm associated with an unusually tortuous portal vein is described . real-time ultrasonography showed anechoic masslike lesions at the porta hepatis communicating with the superior mesenteric vein and intrahepatic portal branches . this suggested the presence of two saccular portal vein aneurysms , 27 x 21 mm and 21 x 13 mm in size . magnetic resonance imaging and portal venography confirmed the portal vein aneurysms and an unusually tortuous portal vein curving caudally between them . the liver was histologically normal and there was no evidence of portal hypertension . it is speculated that these portal vein aneurysms may have been congenital and that the associated tortuous portal vein might have been secondary to hemodynamic changes in the portal venous system . 
cardiac arrest during hip arthroplasty with a cemented long-stem component . a report of seven cases . seven patients had a cardiac arrest during hip arthroplasty with a cemented long-stem femoral component . four patients died in the operating room , and three patients were successfully resuscitated . when the three survivors were eventually discharged from the hospital , they had no known permanent cardiac , pulmonary , or neurological sequelae . factors that were common to all of the patients were advanced age , osteoporotic bone , a previously undisturbed intramedullary canal , and use of a long-stem femoral component and several batches of methylmethacrylate . hip arthroplasty with a long-stem femoral component is associated with substantial risk in these patients . excessive pressurization of cement should be avoided , and invasive hemodynamic monitoring should be used when the described conditions are present . 
prosthetic arthroplasty of the knee after resection of a sarcoma in the proximal end of the tibia . a report of sixteen cases . the results of a specific type of prosthetic reconstruction of the knee ( total replacement arthroplasty ) after resection of a sarcoma of the proximal part of the tibia in sixteen patients were retrospectively reviewed . the diagnosis was stage-iib osteogenic sarcoma in nine patients , stage-iib malignant fibrous histiocytoma in three patients , and stage-ib sarcoma of various types in four patients . the length of tibial resection ranged from 100 to 257 millimeters . of the eleven patients who were available for functional examination ( mean duration of follow-up , sixty-three months ) , three patients had an excellent result , seven had a good result , and one had a fair result . of the five patients who were not available for functional testing , one who was doing well was lost to follow-up at eighty months , one had died of metastases at sixteen months , and three had had a secondary amputation for infection or for loosening of the prosthesis . 
digoxin immune fab therapy in the management of digitalis intoxication : safety and efficacy results of an observational surveillance study . an observational surveillance study was conducted to monitor the safety and effectiveness of treatment with digoxin immune fab ( ovine ) ( digibind ) in patients with digitalis intoxication . before april 1986 , a relatively limited number of patients received treatment with digoxin-specific fab fragments through a multicenter clinical trial . beginning with commercial availability in july 1986 , this study sought additional , voluntarily reported clinical data pertaining to treatment through a 3 week follow-up . the study included 717 adults who received digoxin immune fab ( ovine ) . most patients were greater than or equal to 70 years old and developed toxicity during maintenance dosing with digoxin . fifty percent of patients were reported to have a complete response to treatment , 24 % a partial response and 12 % no response . the response for 14 % of patients was not reported or reported as uncertain . six patients ( 0.8 % , 95 % confidence interval 0.3 % to 1.8 % ) had an allergic reaction to digoxin-specific antibody fragments . three of the six had a history of allergy to antibiotic drugs . twenty patients ( 2.8 % , 95 % confidence interval 1.7 % to 4.3 % ) developed recrudescent toxicity . risk of recrudescent toxicity increased sixfold when less than 50 % of the estimated dose of antibody was administered . a total of 215 patients experienced posttreatment adverse events . the events for 163 patients ( 76 % ) were judged to result from manifestations of underlying disease and thus considered unrelated to fab treatment . digoxin-specific antibody fragments were generally well tolerated and clinically effective in patients judged by treating physicians to have potentially life-threatening digitalis intoxication . 
multicenter registry of angioplasty therapy of cardiogenic shock : initial and long-term survival . this retrospective multicenter study reviews the role of acute percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in the treatment of cardiogenic shock complicating acute myocardial infarction to determine whether early reperfusion affects in-hospital and long-term survival . from 1982 to 1985 , 69 patients were treated with emergency angioplasty to attempt reperfusion of the infarct-related artery . balloon angioplasty was unsuccessful in 20 patients ( group 1 ) and successful in 49 patients ( group 2 ) . initial clinical and angiographic findings in the groups with unsuccessful and successful angioplasty were similar with respect to age ( 60.5 + / - 2.3 versus 57 + / - 1.8 years ) , infarct location ( 65 % versus 65 % anterior ) and gender ( 65 % versus 67 % male ) . hemodynamic variables in the two groups , including systolic blood pressure ( 68 + / - 4.3 versus 73 + / - 1.6 mm hg ) , left ventricular end-diastolic pressure ( 24.4 + / - 2.4 versus 27 + / - 1.0 mm hg ) and initial ejection fraction ( 28.5 + / - 4 % versus 32 + / - 2 % ) , were also similar . twenty-nine patients received thrombolytic therapy with streptokinase ; the overall rate of reperfusion was 34 % . group 1 patients had a short-term survival rate of 20 % , compared with 69 % in group 2 patients ( p less than 0.0005 ) . thirty-eight patients survived the hospital period and were followed up for 24 to 54 months ( mean 32.5 + / - 2.4 ) . five patients ( all in group 2 ) died during follow-up . the long-term incidence rate of congestive heart failure was 19 % , arrhythmia 21 % , need for repeat angioplasty 17 % and coronary artery bypass grafting 26 % . twenty-four month survival was significantly better in group 2 patients ( 54 % ) versus group 1 patients ( 11 % , p = 0.003 ) . 
factors determining improvement in left ventricular function after reperfusion therapy for acute myocardial infarction : primacy of baseline ejection fraction . improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction is a measure of salvage of ischemic myocardium after reperfusion therapy for acute myocardial infarction . the degree of improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction may be influenced by many factors . therefore , 137 patients in whom paired radionuclide angiograms were obtained within 24 h of acute infarction and before hospital discharge were retrospectively evaluated to determine which factors most affect improvement in ejection fraction . only baseline ejection fraction correlated significantly with improvement in ejection fraction by both univariate analysis ( ejection fraction as a continuous variable ; p less than 0.001 ; ejection fraction as a categorical variable , less than or equal to 45 % versus greater than 45 % , p less than 0.0001 ) and multivariate analysis ( p less than 0.0001 ) . reperfusion status ( patent versus occluded infarct artery ) and extent of coronary artery disease ( one , two or three vessel ) were significant factors by multivariate but not by univariate analysis . location of infarction , treatment modality and time to treatment did not correlate with change in ejection fraction by either statistical technique . thus , of those factors tested , baseline left ventricular ejection fraction is the most potent predictor of improvement in ventricular function after acute infarction . knowledge of baseline ejection fraction may be helpful in deciding whether to treat some patients with equivocal indications or contraindications for reperfusion therapy . clinical trials of reperfusion strategies should stratify patients on the basis of baseline ejection fraction if ejection fraction is to be used as an end point for myocardial salvage . 
incidence and clinical significance of transient creatine kinase elevations and the diagnosis of non-q wave myocardial infarction associated with coronary angioplasty . to assess the incidence and clinical significance of elevated total plasma creatine kinase ( ck ) and mb isoenzyme fraction after apparently successful coronary angioplasty , a prospective study of 272 consecutive elective procedures was undertaken . total ck ( normal less than 100 iu/liter ) and ck mb isoenzyme ( normal less than 4 % ) were measured immediately after successful completion of the procedure and every 6 h for 24 h. all nonelective procedures and results not fulfilling all american heart association/american college of cardiology task force guideline criteria for a successful result were excluded from analysis . of the 272 elective procedures , 249 ( 92 % ) were successfully ; abnormally elevated ck or ck mb serum levels , or both , were found in 38 ( 15 % ) of the successful outcomes . three patterns of abnormal enzymes were identified : 15 patients with ck greater than or equal to 200 iu/liter and ck mb greater than or equal to 5 % ( group 1 ) , 4 patients with ck greater than or equal to 200 iu/litter and ck mb less than or equal to 4 % ( group 2 ) and 19 patients with ck less than 200 iu/liter and ck mb greater than or equal to 5 % ( group 3 ) . the three groups were distinguishable by the nature of the complications causing the enzyme release ( in particular , the etiology and clinical manifestations ) . there were significantly more clinically apparent events in group 1 than in the other groups ( 13 of 15 versus 11 of 23 , p less than 0.01 ) and more events associated with persistent electrocardiographic changes ( p = 0.05 ) and chest pain ( p less than 0.05 ) . however , no clinically important sequelae were recognizable in any group at hospital discharge . thus , abnormal cardiac serum enzyme release after apparently successful coronary angioplasty is 1 ) relatively common ; 2 ) has many possible causes , including both minor complications and early reversibility of impending major complications ; and 3 ) results in no permanent clinical sequelae . 
reactivity of eccentric and concentric coronary stenoses in patients with chronic stable angina . dynamic coronary stenoses may be the cause of a variable angina threshold and rest angina in patients with chronic stable angina . it has been suggested that eccentric but not concentric coronary artery stenoses have the potential for dynamic changes of caliber in response to vasoactive stimuli . the vasomotor response of eccentric ( asymmetric narrowing ) and concentric ( symmetric narrowing ) coronary stenoses to ergonovine ( 20 micrograms intracoronary or 300 micrograms intravenous ) and isosorbide dinitrate ( 1 mg intracoronary ) was studied in 51 patients with chronic stable angina . diameter of reference segments ( angiographically normal segments proximal to the stenoses ) and that of eccentric ( n = 30 ) and concentric ( n = 35 ) coronary stenoses that ranged from 50 % to 90 % luminal diameter reduction were measured by computerized quantitative angiography before and after ergonovine and isosorbide dinitrate . ergonovine reduced stenosis diameter ( by greater than or equal to 10 % ) in 80 % of eccentric stenoses and 42 % of concentric stenoses ( p less than 0.05 ) . mean ( + / - sem ) diameter reduction with ergonovine was 19 + / - 3 % and 9.5 + / - 2 % for eccentric and concentric stenoses , respectively ( p less than 0.05 ) . isosorbide dinitrate increased coronary diameter ( by greater than or equal to 10 % ) in 70 % of eccentric and 43 % of concentric stenoses ( p less than 0.05 ) . mean diameter of eccentric stenoses increased from 1.15 + / - 0.05 to 1.35 + / - 0.06 mm after nitrate ( 18.6 + / - 2.5 % ) , whereas diameter of concentric stenoses increased from 1.05 + / - 0.05 to 1.14 + / - 0.05 mm ( 10 + / - 2.5 % ) ( p less than 0.05 ) . average dilation of reference segments with administration of isosorbide dinitrate and constriction with ergonovine were not significantly different in patients with concentric and eccentric stenoses . 
long-term follow-up of medical versus surgical therapy for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy : a retrospective study in a retrospective analysis 139 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy were followed up for 8.9 years ( range 1 to 28 years ) . patients were divided into two groups : group 1 consisted of 60 patients with medical therapy and group 2 of 79 patients with surgical therapy ( septal myectomy ) . groups 1 and 2 were subdivided according to the medical treatment . group 1a received propranolol , 160 mg/day ( n = 20 ) ; group 1b verapamil , 360 mg/day ( n = 18 ) ; and group 1c , no therapy ( n = 22 ) . group 2a received verapamil , 120 to 360 mg/day , after septal myectomy ( n = 17 ) and group 2b had no medical therapy after surgery ( n = 62 ) . in group 1 , 19 patients died ( annual mortality rate 3.6 % ) and in group 2 , 17 patients died ( mortality rate 2.4 % , p = ns ) . of the patients who died , approximately one half to two thirds in both groups 1 and 2 died suddenly and the other one half to one third died because of congestive heart failure . the 10 year cumulative survival rate was 67 % in group 1 , significantly smaller than that in group 2 ( 84 % , p less than 0.05 ) . in the subgroups , the 10 year survival rate was 67 % in group 1a , 80 % in 1b ( p less than 0.05 versus 1a ) and 65 % in 1c ( p less than 0.05 versus 1b ) . the 10 year survival rate was 100 % in group 2a ( p less than 0.05 versus 1a , 1b , 1c ) and 78 % in group 2b ( p less than 0.05 versus 2a ) . it is concluded that cumulative survival rate is significantly better in surgically than in medically treated patients . 
obstruction of mechanical heart valve prostheses : clinical aspects and surgical management . one hundred patients ( 32 male ) aged 5 months to 82 years ( median 32 years ) underwent 106 surgical procedures for 112 mechanical prosthetic valves obstructed by a thrombus ( n = 61 ) or pannus ( n = 7 ) , or both ( n = 44 ) , between january 1 , 1980 and december 31 , 1989 . the position of the obstructed prosthesis was aortic in 51 patients ( 48 % ) , mitral in 49 ( 46 % ) and both aortic and mitral in 6 ( 6 % ) . the types of obstructed prosthetic valves were bjork-shiley ( n = 51 ) , st. jude ( n = 41 ) and medtronic-hall ( n = 20 ) . the time interval between valve replacement and obstruction ranged from 6 weeks to 13 years ( median 4 years ) . of 63 % of patients in whom coagulation variables were available at the time of obstruction , 70 % were receiving inadequate anticoagulant therapy . in 63 % of the procedures the patient was in new york heart association functional class iv . two patients underwent preoperative thrombolysis with incomplete results . operative procedures included valve replacement ( n = 81 ) , valve declotting and excision of pannus ( n = 23 ) and aortic valve replacement and mitral valve declotting ( n = 2 ) . the early mortality rate was 12.3 % ( 13 patients ) , and there was no difference between surgery for mitral prostheses ( 12.2 % ) versus aortic prostheses ( 13.7 % ) . the perioperative mortality rate was 17.5 % ( 11 of 63 patients ) in patients in functional class iv and 4.7 % ( 2 of 43 patients ) in those in functional classes i to iii ( p less than 0.05 ) . for valve replacement , the mortality rate was 12 % ( 10 of 81 patients ) and for declotting of the prosthesis 13 % ( 3 of 23 patients ) . 
myocardial magnesium : relation to laboratory and clinical variables in patients undergoing cardiac surgery . magnesium concentration was measured in the right atrial appendage of 100 patients undergoing cardiac surgery and associations with serum and mononuclear blood cell magnesium , other laboratory values and patient clinical variables were studied . in addition , magnesium was measured in the right atrial appendage and left ventricular free wall in 23 autopsy subjects to determine whether there was a proportional relation between right atrial appendage and left ventricular free wall magnesium . the mean left ventricular free wall/right atrial appendage magnesium ratio was 2.13 + / - 0.39 ( r = 0.67 , p = 0.0009 ) . in the group with cardiac surgery , the right atrial appendage magnesium concentration correlated inversely with age ( r = -0.54 , p = 0.001 ) . the mean right atrial appendage magnesium concentration ( micrograms/g wet weight tissue ) was lower in patients with postoperative cardiac arrhythmia than in those without arrhythmia ( 103 + / - 13 versus 111 + / - 10 , p = 0.009 ) and in diabetic than in nondiabetic patients ( 103 + / - 13 versus 109 + / - 12 , p = 0.02 ) . the right atrial appendage magnesium concentration also tended to be lower in patients receiving potassium/magnesium-losing diuretics , although this difference did not achieve statistical significance ( 105 + / - 14 versus 109 + / - 11 , p = 0.16 ) . right atrial appendage magnesium concentration correlated positively with serum creatinine concentration ( r = 0.31 , p = 0.002 ) and negatively with serum calcium concentration ( r = -0.29 , p = 0.013 ) . serum magnesium did not correlate with right atrial appendage or mononuclear blood cell magnesium concentration or clinical variables . there was a statistically significant correlation between mononuclear blood cell and right atrial appendage magnesium concentrations in some subgroups of patients . 
prediction of the frequency and duration of ambulatory myocardial ischemia in patients with stable coronary artery disease by determination of the ischemic threshold from exercise testing : importance of the exercise protocol the relation between ambulatory myocardial ischemia and the results of exercise testing in patients with ischemic heart disease remains undefined , because of the dissimilar results of previous reports . to further investigate this issue and , in particular , to ascertain the importance of the exercise protocol in determining that relation , 70 patients with stable coronary artery disease underwent 48 h ambulatory electrocardiographic ( ecg ) monitoring and treadmill exercise tests after withdrawal of medications . patients exercised using two different protocols with slow ( national institutes of health [ nih ] combined protocol ) and brisk ( bruce protocol ) work load increments . exercise duration was longer with the nih combined protocol ( 14.1 + / - 5 versus 6.8 + / - 2 min ; p less than 0.0001 ) , but the maximal work load and peak heart rate achieved were greater with the bruce protocol ( 9.8 + / - 2 versus 6.5 + / - 2 mets , and 142 + / - 19 versus 133 + / - 22 beats/min , respectively ; p less than 0.0001 ) . a close inverse correlation between exercise testing and the results of ambulatory ecg monitoring was observed using the nih combined protocol ; the strongest correlation was observed between time of exercise at 1 mm of st segment depression and number of ischemic episodes ( r = -0.86 ; p less than 0.0001 ) . with the bruce protocol a significantly weaker inverse correlation was found ( r = -0.35 ) . the mean heart rate at the onset of st segment depression was similar during monitoring and during exercise testing with the nih combined protocol ( 97.2 + / - 13 versus 101.0 + / - 17 beats/min , respectively ) but it was significantly higher ( 110.4 + / - 13 ) when using the bruce protocol ( p less than 0.001 ) . 
stress echocardiography and the human factor : the importance of being expert . the aim of this study was to evaluate how the diagnostic accuracy of a stress echocardiographic procedure , such as a dipyridamole echocardiography test , depends on the specific experience of the physician interpreting the test . recordings of 50 consecutive dipyridamole echocardiographic tests were selected for the first part of the study . they were analyzed by 20 experienced echocardiographers with different backgrounds in stress echocardiography : 10 beginners ( less than 20 stress studies interpreted with trained staff ) and 10 experienced observers ( greater than or equal to 100 stress studies performed ) . diagnostic accuracy ( true positive + true negative/total number of tests ) versus the angiographic reference standard ( greater than 70 % coronary stenosis of at least one major coronary artery ) was 62 + / - 6 % for beginners and 85 + / - 3 % for experienced observers ( p less than 0.0001 ) . in the second part of the study , 10 observers ( 5 beginners and 5 experienced observers ) evaluated 2 different sets of 50 dipyridamole echocardiographic test studies before and after the training of the beginners . before training , the accuracy of beginners was lower than that of experienced observers ( 61 + / - 7 % versus 85 + / - 3 % ; p less than 0.001 ) . after training , the accuracy gap was closed ( 83 + / - 3 % versus 86 + / - 2 % ; p = ns ) . therefore , interpretation of stress echocardiographic tests by an echocardiographer without specific training severely underestimates the diagnostic potential of this technique . one hundred stress echocardiographic studies are more than adequate to build the individual learning curve and reach the plateau of diagnostic accuracy that the test can yield . 
silent ischemia after coronary angioplasty : evaluation of restenosis and extent of ischemia in asymptomatic patients by tomographic thallium-201 exercise imaging and comparison with symptomatic patients . one hundred sixteen patients were evaluated to determine the ability of single photon emission computed tomographic ( spect ) thallium-201 exercise and redistribution imaging to detect silent ischemia secondary to restenosis in asymptomatic patients after single and multiple vessel percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and the findings were compared with spect imaging detection of restenosis in symptomatic patients . the value of exercise electrocardiography ( ecg ) and the amount of ischemic myocardium in symptomatic and asymptomatic patients were determined . forty-one patients were asymptomatic after angioplasty ; 77 % of these had chest pain before angioplasty . seventy-five patients had chest pain after angioplasty ; 99 % of these had chest pain before angioplasty . restenosis occurred in 61 % of asymptomatic and 59 % of symptomatic patients and in 46 % of the vessels in both asymptomatic and symptomatic patients . sensitivity , specificity and accuracy for detection of restenosis by spect in individual patients were 96 % , 75 % and 88 % versus 91 % , 77 % and 85 % , respectively , in the asymptomatic versus symptomatic groups ( p = ns ) . sensitivity , specificity and accuracy for restenosis detection in individual vessels were 90 % , 89 % and 89 % versus 84 % , 77 % and 84 % , respectively , in the asymptomatic and symptomatic groups ( p = ns ) , with similar results for the three major arteries . sensitivity and accuracy of exercise ecg were significantly less than those of spect imaging for the patients with silent ( 40 % and 44 % ) and symptomatic ( 59 % and 64 % ) ischemia ( p less than 0.001 ) . restenosis of vessels in the patients with silent and symptomatic ischemia was associated with an equal amount and degree of severity of ischemic myocardium in the two groups . 
concealed entrainment as a guide for catheter ablation of ventricular tachycardia in patients with prior myocardial infarction . fifteen consecutive patients with drug-refractory , recurrent , sustained , monomorphic ventricular tachycardia and a history of remote myocardial infarction underwent catheter ablation of ventricular tachycardia . shocks of 100 to 300 j were delivered to sites at which pacing during ventricular tachycardia resulted in concealed entrainment , in which the ventricular tachycardia accelerated to the pacing rate , there was a long stimulus to qrs interval and there was no change in the configuration of the qrs complex during pacing at several rates compared with the configuration during ventricular tachycardia , thus identifying a zone of slow conduction in the reentrant circuit . concealed entrainment was demonstrated in nine ( 60 % ) of 15 patients , and the stimulus to qrs intervals were 90 to 400 ms. at sites of concealed entrainment , the endocardial activation time relative to the qrs complex during ventricular tachycardia ranged from -125 to +50 ms , the timing of the local electrogram relative to the qrs complex was the same during entrainment as during ventricular tachycardia and the pace map during sinus rhythm was discordant with that of the ventricular tachycardia in seven patients . in the six patients in whom a site of concealed entrainment could not be identified , the target site for ablation was selected on the basis of identification of an isolated mid-diastolic potential , activation mapping and pace mapping . the mean ( + / - sd ) cumulative number of joules delivered to the target site was 306 + / - 140 . a successful long-term clinical outcome was achieved in 9 of the 15 patients ( mean follow-up 20 + / - 7 months ) . the clinical success rate was the same whether the target site was selected on the basis of concealed entrainment ( five of nine , 56 % ) or on the basis of the other mapping techniques ( four of six , 67 % ) . in conclusion , the responses to pacing suggest that sites at which there is concealed entrainment may be located within a zone of slow conduction in the ventricular tachycardia reentry circuit , although not necessarily in an area critical for the maintenance of reentry . the long-term clinical efficacy of catheter ablation targeted to sites of concealed entrainment is about 60 % , similar to the results achieved when conventional mapping techniques are used . 
effects of standing on the induction of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia . to evaluate the effects of standing on induction of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia , electrophysiologic studies were performed in both the supine and standing positions in 22 patients with atrioventricular ( av ) reciprocating tachycardia and in 11 with av node reentrant tachycardia . av reciprocating tachycardia was induced in 9 of the 22 patients with av reciprocating tachycardia when they were in the supine position and in 17 when standing . the effective refractory period of the av node markedly shortened , from 275 + / - 72 to 203 + / - 30 ms ( n = 16 , p less than 0.005 ) after standing . the effective refractory period of the accessory pathway shortened slightly , from 293 + / - 75 to 278 + / - 77 ms ( n = 8 , p less than 0.005 ) , after standing . av node reentrant tachycardia was induced in 3 of the 11 patients with av node reentrant tachycardia when they were in the supine position and in 6 when standing . the effective refractory periods of the slow pathway and fast pathway shortened markedly , from 293 + / - 72 to 216 + / - 40 ms ( n = 6 , p less than 0.025 ) and from 416 + / - 85 to 277 + / - 50 ms ( n = 10 , p less than 0.005 ) , respectively , after standing . plasma norepinephrine levels increased during standing both in patients with av reciprocating and in those with av node reentrant tachycardia ( n = 11 , p less than 0.005 , n = 8 , p less than 0.005 , respectively ) . in conclusion , standing , which is associated with increased sympathetic tone , changed the electrophysiologic properties of the reentrant circuits , facilitating induction of av reciprocating tachycardia and av node reentrant tachycardia . 
a randomized double-blind crossover comparison of four rate-responsive pacing modes . the aim of this study was to compare , both subjectively and objectively , four modern rate-responsive pacing modes in a double-blind crossover design . twenty-two patients , aged 18 to 81 years , had an activity-sensing dual chamber universal rate-responsive ( dddr ) pacemaker implanted for treatment of high grade atrioventricular block and chronotropic incompetence . they were randomly programmed to vvir ( ventricular demand rate-responsive ) , ddir ( dual chamber demand rate-responsive ) , ddd ( dual chamber universal ) or dddr ( dual chamber universal rate-responsive ) mode and assessed after 4 weeks of out-of-hospital activity . five patients , all with vvir pacing , requested early reprogramming . the dddr mode was preferred by 59 % of patients ; the vvir mode was the least acceptable mode in 73 % . perceived " general well-being , " exercise capacity , functional status and symptoms were significantly worse in the vvir than in dual rate-responsive modes . exercise treadmill time was longer in dddr mode ( p less than 0.01 ) , but similar in all other modes . during standardized daily activities , heart rate in vvir and ddir modes underresponded to mental stress . all rate-augmented modes overresponded to staircase descent , whereas the ddd mode significantly underresponded to staircase ascent . echocardiography revealed no difference in chamber dimensions , left ventricular fractional shortening or pulmonary artery pressure in any mode . cardiac output was greater at rest in the dual modes than in the vvir mode ( p = 0.006 ) but was similar at 120 beats/min . beat to beat variability of cardiac output was greatest in vvir mode ( p less than 0.0001 ) , with ddir showing greater variability than ddd or dddr modes ( p less than 0.05 ) . mitral regurgitation estimated by doppler color flow imaging was similar in all modes , but tricuspid regurgitation was significantly greater in vvir than in dual modes ( p less than 0.03 ) . subjects who preferred the dddr mode and those who found the vvir mode least acceptable had significantly greater increases in stroke volume when paced in the ddd mode than in the ventricular-inhibited ( vvi ) mode at rest ( 22 % ) when compared with subjects who preferred other modes ( 2 % , p = 0.03 ) . no other objective variable was predictive of subjective benefit from any rate-responsive pacing mode . thus , dual sensor rate-responsive pacing ( dddr ) is superior objectively and subjectively to single sensor ( vvir , ddir and ddd ) pacing and subjective benefit from dual chamber rate-augmented pacing is predictable echocardiographically . 
the automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator : effect of patch polarity on defibrillation threshold . an automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator ( aicd ) was implanted in 40 patients with sudden cardiac arrest ( n = 29 ) , sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia ( n = 10 ) or recurrent syncope ( n = 1 ) who were unsuitable for direct ablative surgery or had had unsuccessful medical therapy . the effect of patch electrode polarity on the defibrillation threshold was prospectively evaluated . two large epicardial patches were used . initial polarity was selected at random . ventricular fibrillation was induced by direct current and a preestablished defibrillation protocol employed to assess the minimal energy that would reproducibly defibrillate the heart . nineteen patients had a lower defibrillation threshold with the inferior left ventricular patch as an anode and nine patients had a lower defibrillation threshold with this patch as a cathode . in general , the defibrillation threshold was lower when this patch was used as an anode than when it was used as a cathode ( 18 + / - 10 versus 22.6 + / - 12.2 j ; p less than 0.01 ) . no preoperative variable predicted optimal polarity . therefore , the effect of patch polarity on defibrillation threshold should be assessed in each patient at the time of aicd implantation so that the safety margin for satisfactory device function can be maximized . 
dissection of the aorta associated with congenital malformation of the aortic valve . the association of congenital aortic valve malformation and aortic dissection is analyzed . over a 30 year period , 186 patients with non-iatrogenic aortic dissection were studied at necropsy . the aortic valve was tricuspid in 170 ( 91.4 % ) , bicuspid in 14 ( 7.5 % ) and unicuspid in 2 ( 1.1 % ) . among the 16 patients with aortic dissection and a congenitally malformed valve , the age at death ranged from 17 to 82 years ( mean 52 ) and 13 ( 81 % ) were men . the entrance tear of the aortic dissection was located in the ascending aorta in all 16 patients with a malformed valve but in only 68 % of those with a tricuspid aortic valve . the aortic valve was stenotic in 6 of the 16 patients with a congenitally malformed valve . fatal rupture of the false channel occurred after acute ascending aortic dissection in each of the 11 patients ( none with healed dissection ) who did not have operative therapy for the dissection . two of the 16 patients with a malformed valve compared with no patient with a tricuspid aortic valve had aortic isthmic coarctation . histologic sections of aorta from 10 patients disclosed severe degeneration of the elastic fibers of the media in 9 patients . thus , a congenitally malformed aortic valve appears to be present at least 5 times more frequently in adults with than in those without aortic dissection , and in our patients the entrance tear was always in the ascending aorta , which usually had severe loss of elastic fibers in its media . 
surgery for ebstein 's anomaly : the clinical and echocardiographic evaluation of a new technique . ten consecutive patients ( age range 4 to 44 years , mean 22 ) underwent surgical repair of ebstein 's anomaly by vertical plication of the right ventricle and reimplantation of the tricuspid valve leaflets . no patient died during or after operation . intraoperative postbypass echocardiography documented a good result in nine patients but severe tricuspid regurgitation in one patient , who then underwent prosthetic valve replacement during a second period of cardiopulmonary bypass . two of four patients who had had right ventricular papillary muscle dysfunction in the early postoperative period showed improved papillary muscle function with concomitant reduction of tricuspid regurgitation 6 months later . all patients were evaluated clinically and by echocardiography 2 to 23 months later . all patients showed clinical improvement , seven by one functional class and three by two classes . all were in sinus rhythm . the mean cardiothoracic ratio decreased by 6 % ( p less than 0.05 ) . on bicycle ergometry performed in six patients , peak oxygen consumption exceeded 20 ml/kg per min in five . tricuspid regurgitation diminished in eight patients ( by three grades in two patients , by two grades in five and by one grade in one patient ) ; it remained unchanged in two . comparison of preoperative and postoperative pulsed doppler flow velocities across the pulmonary valve showed an increase in the peak velocity of flow across the valve ( mean 83 + / - 14 versus 97 + / - 11 cm/s , p less than 0.005 ) and a decrease in the time to peak velocity ( mean 130 + / - 16 versus 91 + / - 23 ms , p less than 0.05 ) . 
the role of chronotropic impairment during exercise after the mustard operation . to better understand the role of chronotropic impairment on exercise performance after the atrial switch ( mustard ) operation , 20 patients who had undergone this operation for uncomplicated d-transposition of the great arteries exercised to maximal volition using a 1 min incremental treadmill protocol . heart rate , oxygen consumption , carbon dioxide production and minute ventilation were monitored continuously . two-dimensional echocardiograms were obtained before testing to calculate the right ventricular inflow volume indexed to body surface area . all patients achieved maximal aerobic capacity based on their ventilatory patterns and respiratory exchange ratio . maximal heart rate was reduced ( 175 beats/min ; 87 % of predicted for age ) and maximal oxygen consumption was decreased ( 31 ml/kg per min ; 75 % of predicted for age and gender ) . there was no correlation between maximal oxygen consumption and maximal heart rate . right ventricular volume index , however , had a significant inverse correlation with maximal heart rate ( r = -0.62 , p less than 0.005 ) . there was no correlation between right ventricular volume index and heart rate at rest . these results suggest that decreased maximal oxygen consumption in patients after the mustard procedure is not a result of chronotropic impairment . right ventricular dilation may be a compensatory response to chronotropic impairment . 
effect of captopril , an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor , in patients with angina pectoris and heart failure the effects of captopril and placebo were compared in 18 patients with chronic heart failure and angina pectoris with use of a double-blind crossover trial design . symptoms were assessed by patient treatment preference , visual analogue scores and nitroglycerin consumption . exercise performance was assessed using two different treadmill protocols of different work intensity with simultaneous measurement of oxygen consumption and by supine bicycle exercise and simultaneous radionuclide ventriculography . arrhythmias were assessed by 48 h ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring . patients generally preferred placebo to captopril , and this appeared to be due to an increase in symptoms of angina with captopril . treadmill exercise time on a high intensity protocol was shorter with captopril than with placebo ; on a low intensity protocol , angina became a more frequent limiting symptom even though overall exercise performance was not changed . the heart rate-blood pressure product was reduced , but largely because of a reduction in blood pressure rather than in heart rate . during supine bicycle exercise , no differences in symptoms , exercise performance , ejection fraction or changes in blood pressure were noted and ventricular arrhythmias were reduced . captopril does not appear to be clinically useful in alleviating angina pectoris in patients with heart failure , and this effect may be related to a decrease in coronary perfusion pressure . nonetheless , desirable metabolic effects , a reduction in arrhythmias and potential effects on survival require further study of captopril in patients with both angina and heart failure . 
effect of maintenance digoxin therapy on aerobic performance and exercise left ventricular function in mild to moderate heart failure due to coronary artery disease : a randomized , placebo-controlled , crossover trial . despite 200 years of use , the ability of digitalis glycosides to improve exercise capacity in patients with congestive heart failure remains controversial , partly because of imprecise end points and suboptimal study design . therefore , this question was examined in 10 ambulatory patients ( 8 men and 2 women ) aged 46 to 70 years ( mean 57.8 ) in sinus rhythm with mild to moderate chronic stable congestive heart failure due to coronary artery disease and systolic left ventricular dysfunction ( ejection fraction 32 + / - 12 ) . all underwent maximal treadmill exercise with respiratory gas analysis and upright cycle ergometry with gated radionuclide angiography after 4 weeks of digoxin or placebo therapy , administered in a randomized double-blind crossover protocol . neither treadmill exercise duration ( 7.7 + / - 2.3 versus 7.3 + / - 2.7 min ) nor peak oxygen consumption ( 18.7 + / - 3.7 versus 18.4 + / - 5.4 ml/kg per min ) differed between digoxin and placebo regimens . however , the change in peak oxygen consumption induced by digoxin was inversely related to the peak oxygen consumption during placebo therapy ( r = -0.64 , p less than 0.05 ) . at maximal treadmill effort , heart rate ( 138 + / - 16 versus 141 + / - 21 beats/min ) , oxygen pulse ( 10.3 + / - 2.1 versus 9.9 + / - 2.2 ml/beat ) , ventilation ( 40.3 + / - 10.6 versus 42.0 + / - 10.8 liters/min ) and ventilatory equivalent ( 29.4 + / - 4.8 versus 31.5 + / - 6.8 ) did not differ between digoxin and placebo treatment , although systolic blood pressure was higher during digoxin therapy ( 163.0 + / - 23.1 versus 153.2 + / - 25.3 mm hg , p less than 0.05 ) . 
treatment of recurrent ischemia after thrombolysis and successful reperfusion for acute myocardial infarction : effect on in-hospital mortality and left ventricular function . to determine the effect of treatment of recurrent ischemia after reperfusion for acute myocardial infarction on in-hospital mortality and left ventricular function recovery and to identify patients at highest risk of serious consequences in the event of recurrent ischemia in this setting , 405 consecutively treated patients were studied retrospectively . all patients received intravenous thrombolytic therapy within 6 h of st segment elevation-documented infarction and had angiographic confirmation of their reperfusion status performed within 120 min of treatment . three hundred three patients had successful reperfusion with or without rescue angioplasty and had no recurrent ischemia ( group 1 ) , 74 patients had initially successful reperfusion but subsequent recurrent ischemia ( group 2 ) and 28 patients had failed reperfusion ( group 3 ) . the in-hospital mortality in groups 1 to 3 was 2.0 % , 14.9 % and 32.1 % , respectively ( p less than 0.001 ) and the change from baseline to prehospital discharge left ventricular ejection fraction was 1.2 + / - 9.3 % , -0.8 + / - 8.7 % and -4.3 + / - 5.3 % , respectively ( p = ns ) . within the recurrent ischemia group ( group 2 ) , multiple regression analysis found absence of cardiogenic shock at presentation ( p = 0.002 ) and successful treatment initiated within 90 min of recurrent ischemia ( p = 0.045 ) to be the only variables independently correlated with in-hospital survival . later successful reperfusion was not associated with improved hospital survival . the timing and success of treatment did not affect recovery of global or regional left ventricular function in the patients with paired angiographic studies . 
a paradigm for restenosis based on cell biology : clues for the development of new preventive therapies . angioplasty causes substantial injury to the coronary artery intima and media that is unrecognizable by angiography . on the basis of a substantial body of research in oncology and wound healing , it is hypothesized that restenosis is a manifestation of the general wound healing response expressed specifically in vascular tissue . the temporal response to injury occurs in three characteristic phases : inflammation , granulation and extracellular matrix remodeling . the specific expression of these phases in the coronary artery leads to intimal hyperplasia at 1 to 4 months . the major milestones in the temporal sequence of restenosis are platelet aggregation , inflammatory cell infiltration , release of growth factors , medial smooth muscle cell modulation and proliferation , proteoglycan deposition and extracellular matrix remodeling . each step has potential inhibitors that could be used for preventive therapy . resolution of restenosis , however , probably requires both creation of the largest possible residual lumen and substantial inhibition of intimal hyperplasia . 
percutaneous support devices for high risk or complicated coronary angioplasty . indications for coronary angioplasty have expanded to include patients with unstable acute ischemic syndromes , severe multivessel coronary artery disease and impaired left ventricular function . several mechanical approaches have been developed as adjuncts to high risk coronary angioplasty to improve patient tolerance of coronary balloon occlusion and maintain hemodynamic stability in the event of complications . these percutaneous techniques include intraaortic balloon counterpulsation , anterograde transcatheter coronary perfusion , coronary sinus retroperfusion , cardiopulmonary bypass , hemopump left ventricular assistance and partial left heart bypass . the intraaortic balloon pump provides hemodynamic support and ameliorates ischemia by decreasing myocardial work ; it may be inserted for periprocedural complications or before angioplasty in patients with ischemia or hypotension . anterograde distal coronary artery perfusion may be accomplished passively through an autoperfusion catheter or by active pumping of oxygenated blood or fluorocarbons through the central lumen of an angioplasty catheter . synchronized coronary sinus retroperfusion produces pulsatile blood flow via the cardiac veins to the coronary bed distal to a stenosis . both perfusion techniques limit development of ischemic chest pain and myocardial dysfunction in patients undergoing prolonged balloon inflations . percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass provides complete systemic hemodynamic support which is independent of intrinsic cardiac function or rhythm and has been employed prophylactically in very high risk patients before coronary angioplasty or emergently for abrupt closure . these and newer support devices , while associated with significant complications , may ultimately improve the safety of coronary angioplasty and allow its application to those who would otherwise not be candidates for revascularization . 
regional myocardial blood flow and left ventricular diastolic properties in pacing-induced ischemia . the relation between left ventricular diastolic abnormalities and myocardial blood flow during ischemia was studied in eight open chest dogs with critical stenoses of the proximal left anterior descending and circumflex coronary arteries . the heart was paced at 1.7 times the heart rate at rest for 3 min . in dogs with coronary stenoses , left ventricular end-diastolic pressure increased from 8 + / - 1 to 14 + / - 2 mm hg during pacing tachycardia ( p less than 0.01 ) and 16 + / - 3 mm hg ( p less than 0.01 ) after pacing , with increased end-diastolic and end-systolic segment lengths in the ischemic regions . left ventricular diastolic pressure-segment length relations for ischemic regions shifted upward during and after pacing tachycardia in dogs with coronary stenoses , indicating decreased regional diastolic distensibility . in dogs without coronary stenoses , the left ventricular diastolic pressure-segment length relation was unaltered . pacing tachycardia without coronary stenoses induced an increase in anterograde coronary blood flow ( assessed by flow meter ) in both the left anterior descending and circumflex coronary arteries , and a decrease in regional vascular resistance . in dogs with coronary stenoses , regional vascular resistance before pacing was decreased by 18 % ; myocardial blood flow ( assessed by microspheres ) was unchanged in both the left anterior descending and circumflex coronary artery territories . during pacing tachycardia with coronary stenoses , regional coronary vascular resistance did not decrease further ; subendocardial myocardial blood flow distal to the left anterior descending coronary artery stenosis decreased ( from 1.03 + / - 0.07 to 0.67 + / - 0.12 ml/min per g , p less than 0.01 ) , as did subendocardial to subepicardial blood flow ratio ( from 1.04 + / - 0.09 to 0.42 + / - 0.08 , p less than 0.01 ) . 
pressure-length loop area : its components analyzed during graded myocardial ischemia . the changes in total pressure-length loop area were compared with changes in effective shortening area , systolic lengthening area and postsystolic shortening area ( defined with respect to end-diastolic and end-systolic lengths ) of the pressure-length loop during myocardial ischemia in seven anesthetized dogs instrumented for measurement of left ventricular pressure and regional segmental wall motion ( sonomicrometry ) in the minor axis of the apical region of the left ventricle . ischemia was induced by gradual tightening of a micrometer-controlled snare around the left anterior descending coronary artery , which supplied the apical myocardium . data were obtained at normal flow , after critical constriction ( loss of pulsatile coronary flow ) , mild ischemia ( ischemia 1 : onset of regional dysfunction , i.e. , postsystolic shortening and mild hypokinesia ) and moderate ischemia ( ischemia 2 : marked hypokinesia ) . at each stage , acute afterloading was performed by partially occluding the descending thoracic aorta . the pressure-length loops were analyzed in terms of four areas : total loop area , effective shortening area , postsystolic shortening area and systolic lengthening area . total loop area decreased only when marked hypokinesia was present ( 176 + / - 18.3 mm hg x mm at ischemia 2 versus 245.1 + / - 26.9 mm hg x mm at ischemia 1 , p less than 0.05 ) . however , effective shortening area ( 98.2 + / - 0.8 % of total loop area at baseline ; 93.8 + / - 2.4 % at critical constriction ; 76.3 + / - 7.2 % at ischemia 1 ; 51.9 + / - 12.2 % at ischemia 2 ) and postsystolic shortening area ( 1.8 + / - 0.8 % of total loop area at baseline ; 5.2 + / - 1.9 % at critical constriction ; 14.3 + / - 3/4 % at ischemia 1 ; 23.8 + / - 5.1 % at ischemia 2 ) changed significantly with each progressive stage of ischemia . 
modification of atrioventricular node transmission properties by intraoperative neodymium-yag laser photocoagulation in dogs . the purpose of this study was to test the feasibility of neodymium-yttrium-aluminum-garnet ( nd-yag ) laser photocoagulation of the atrioventricular ( av ) node to control the ventricular rate during rapid atrial rhythms without creating av block . in 12 dogs on normothermic cardiopulmonary bypass , short laser pulses were delivered to an area between the coronary sinus orifice and the site of the most proximally recorded his deflection until second degree av block occurred at a paced atrial rate of 200 beats/min . long-term effects on av node function were followed up for 3 months . three animals developed chronic high grade av block . in nine animals with preserved 1:1 conduction , the mean ( + / - sem ) critical atrial cycle length resulting in av node wenckebach periodicity increased from 183 + / - 6 to 261 + / - 24 ms ( +43 % ) , the mean rr interval during induced atrial fibrillation increased from 248 + / - 14 to 330 + / - 27 ms ( +32 % ) and the shortest rr interval during atrial fibrillation increased from 215 + / - 11 to 275 + / - 20 ms ( +28 % ) . laser effects were not reversed by isoproterenol infusion . histologic examination of the irradiated area showed fibrotic changes in the av node and fatty metamorphosis . this study suggests that 1 ) graded nd-yag laser photocoagulation of the av node region in dogs results in long-term modification of anterograde av node transmission properties ; 2 ) 1:1 conduction during sinus rhythm usually remains preserved , but ventricular rate during rapid atrial rhythms is chronically reduced ; and 3 ) progression to high grade av block occurs in a minority of animals . 
duchenne 's cardiomyopathy in a canine model : electrocardiographic and echocardiographic studies . thirteen dogs affected with x-linked duchenne 's muscular dystrophy and 11 female carrier dogs were studied by electrocardiography ( ecg ) and echocardiography . twelve of the affected dogs were studied as immature animals and followed at 1 to 6 month intervals until they were 7 to 46 months of age . compared with control dogs , affected dogs had significantly increased ( p less than 0.02 ) q/r ratios in ecg leads ii , iii , avf , cv6ll ( v2 ) and cv6lu ( v4 ) . carrier dogs had significantly increased ( p less than 0.02 ) q/r ratios in leads v2 and v4 . the q/r ratio increased in three of six dogs followed up from age 6 months to greater than 2 years . the pr intervals were significantly shorter ( p less than 0.02 ) in affected dogs . ventricular arrhythmias were identified in four of six mature affected dogs . two-dimensional echocardiography revealed distinctive hyperechoic lesions in 12 of the 13 affected dogs and in 6 of the 11 carrier dogs . hyperechoic lesions corresponded to calcified myocardium and surrounding dense connective tissue . this study establishes the dog affected with duchenne 's muscular dystrophy as an animal model of duchenne 's cardiomyopathy and demonstrates that the heart in carrier dogs is affected by the dystrophic process . 
natural evolution of cardiac function , cardiac pathology and antimyosin scan in a murine myocarditis model . serial technetium-99m radionuclide ventriculograms , indium-111 antimyosin antibody scans and tissue biodistribution studies were performed in c3h/he mice with experimentally induced viral encephalomyocarditis and the results were compared with pathologic assessments of myocardial necrosis . postinfection ejection fraction decreased on days 10 ( 20.7 + / - 5.5 % , n = 6 ) , 20 ( 18.6 + / - 15.2 % , n = 5 ) , 30 ( 18.5 + / - 7.7 % , n = 5 ) and 150 ( 30.0 + / - 18.7 , n = 6 ) ( p less than 0.001 ) in comparison with that in uninfected control mice ( 63.3 + / - 3.1 % , n = 6 ) . in the same group of animals , indium-111 antimyosin antibody scans showed intense positive myocardial accumulation on day 10 ( in six of six mice ) and only slight accumulation on day 20 ( in one of five mice ) . in the chronic stage , two of five mice on day 30 and two of six mice on day 150 still showed positive uptake . the antimyosin scan myocardium to lung uptake ratio ( expressed as mean count density [ mean counts/pixel of the region ] ratio ) increased greatly on day 10 ( p less than 0.001 versus values in uninfected control mice ) but not subsequently . biodistribution studies of the indium-111 antimyosin antibody showed that the heart to blood count ratio was significantly higher on day 10 ( p less than 0.001 versus values in control mice ) but not on days 20 , 30 and 150 . pathologic examination showed active and ongoing severe myocardial necrosis with dilated ventricles on day 10 . on day 20 , there was less active necrosis and healing had appeared to begin . on days 30 and 150 , myocardial fibrosis increased . 
follow-up of patients with low output , low gradient hemodynamics after percutaneous balloon aortic valvuloplasty : the mansfield scientific aortic valvuloplasty registry . symptomatic patients with a low cardiac output and low aortic valve gradient have a poor prognosis but are at high risk for aortic valve surgery . the outcome of percutaneous balloon aortic valvuloplasty in this subgroup of patients is unclear . therefore , 67 patients ( group 1 ) underwent percutaneous balloon aortic valvuloplasty between december 1 , 1986 and november 1 , 1987 who had a low cardiac index ( less than 2.5 liters/min per m2 ) and a low aortic valve gradient ( less than or equal to 40 mm hg ) before the procedure . the results were compared with 200 patients ( group 2 ) who had a low cardiac index but not a low aortic valve gradient ( greater than 40 mm hg ) before the procedure and who had similar baseline presenting symptoms . after balloon aortic valvuloplasty , there was a greater decrease in aortic valve gradient in patients in group 2 than in patients in group 1 ( mean + / - sd -33.0 + / - 16.7 mm hg and -14.6 + / - 6.9 mm hg , respectively ; p less than 0.001 ) although there was no significant difference in improvement in estimated aortic valve area ( 0.31 + / - 0.21 and 0.31 + / - 0.22 cm2 , respectively ; p = ns ) . in-hospital mortality was 11.9 % for patients in group 1 which was not significantly different from the 7.5 % mortality for patients in group 2 . however , the actuarial probability of survival at 12 months for patients who survived the initial hospitalization was 46 % in group 1 and 64 % in group 2 ( p less than 0.05 ) . moreover , at follow-up ( mean 8.8 months ) 64 % of surviving group 1 patients displayed clinical improvement , compared with 70 % of surviving group 2 patients . 
clinical diagnosis of binswanger 's disease . to aid in the prospective study of binswanger 's disease , a poorly understood form of vascular dementia , a standardised criteria for its antemortem diagnosis was proposed . these criteria include dementia , bilateral radiological abnormalities on computed tomography ( ct ) or magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) , and at least two of the following three clinical findings : a ) a vascular risk factor or evidence of systemic vascular disease ; b ) evidence of focal cerebrovascular disease ; and c ) evidence of " subcortical " cerebral dysfunction . these criteria were validated in two ways . first , by retrospectively applying them to a series of 30 demented patients with various pathological diagnoses . second , by prospectively applying them to a series of 184 patients with clinically typical alzheimer 's disease . the sensitivity and specificity of the criteria appear adequate for use in clinical research . 
a simple method to improve the accuracy of non-invasive ultrasound in selecting tia patients for cerebral angiography . a prospective study is reported of the ability of b mode ultrasound imaging and continuous wave doppler flow studies to detect different degrees of stenosis of the extracranial internal carotid artery ( ica ) in 186 arteries in 99 patients with transient ischaemic attacks ( tia ) and minor ischaemic stroke . a simple mathematical equation has been developed which combines the image and flow data to provide a single predictor of the degree of angiographic stenosis which has advantages over either ultrasonic modality used alone . the sensitivity and specificity of the predictive model in the detection of stenosis greater than or equal to 25 % was 73 % and 98 % , of stenosis greater than or equal to 50 % was 90 % and 93 % , of stenosis greater than or equal to 75 % , 65 % and 99 % and occlusion 100 % and 94 % respectively . the principal clinical value of ultrasound screening is to spare patients with " non-significant " stenosis the risk of unnecessary angiography . thus a simple measure of the duplex screening tests ' performance is the proportion of all strokes occurring as a complication of angiography that are avoided by changing the investigation policy from " angiograms for all carotid tia and minor ischaemic stroke patients " to " angiograms for all patients with abnormal ultrasound results " . if duplex scanning were used to select patients most likely to have a significant abnormality on angiography , depending on the degree of stenosis to be detected , 52-85 % of angiographic strokes might be avoided . if the predictive equation were used 62-88 % of angiographic strokes might be avoided . 
contracturing granulomatous myositis : a separate entity . granulomatous muscle disease is most commonly seen in sarcoidosis , but may be seen in association with a wide variety of other disorders or in isolation . patients with granulomatous myositis usually present with slowly progressive muscle pain and weakness affecting mainly proximal muscles . there are , however , a few reports of granulomatous muscle disease presenting with flexion contractures of the limbs . two further patients with granulomatous muscle disease and flexion contractures of the limbs , but with no evidence of systemic granulomatous disease , is presented . it is suggested that such patients represent a separate clinical entity that is distinct from idiopathic granulomatous myositis presenting with muscle pain and weakness . the association of contracturing granulomatous myositis with a long-standing vasculitis in one patient suggests that the two conditions may be related . 
platelet thromboxane release and delayed cerebral ischemia in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage . adenosine diphosphate-induced platelet aggregation and associated thromboxane b2 release were studied in 52 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) in order to detect a possible association between altered platelet function and development of cerebral ischemic complications after sah . compared to the values on admission , the patients showed significantly increased platelet aggregability ( p less than 0.05 ) and thromboxane release ( p less than 0.001 ) 1 to 2 weeks after sah . the highest values of thromboxane release were seen in patients who deteriorated due to delayed cerebral ischemia with a permanent neurological deficit . thromboxane release was significantly higher ( p less than 0.05 ) before the onset of severe delayed ischemia in six patients with preoperative ischemia compared to the patients without delayed ischemia . in five others , both ischemic deterioration and elevated thromboxane release occurred after operation . these patients had preoperative values similar to the values in those without ischemic symptoms . the observations suggest that increased platelet aggregability and thromboxane release are associated with delayed cerebral ischemia both before and after surgery . 
endovascular occlusion of vertebral arteries in the treatment of unclippable vertebrobasilar aneurysms . twenty-one patients with aneurysms of the vertebrobasilar circulation underwent unilateral or bilateral endovascular occlusion of the vertebral artery . six patients presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) , 10 with mass effect , four with mass effect and sah , and one with ischemic symptoms . thirteen patients had good outcomes with complete clinical and angiographic cure . six patients had partial thrombosis of their aneurysms . there was one death and one treatment failure . one patient suffered transient stroke . it is concluded that endovascular occlusion of the vertebral artery following test occlusion is a safe and effective treatment for proximal aneurysms of the vertebrobasilar circulation . 
effect of 21-aminosteroid u-74006f on lipid peroxidation in subarachnoid clot . the present study was undertaken to investigate the effect of u-74006f on malondialdehyde ( a by-product of lipid peroxidation ) in subarachnoid clot . eighteen cynomolgus monkeys were divided into three groups of six each . there were two u-74006f-treated groups , receiving doses of 0.3 or 1.0 mg/kg , and a placebo-treated group . each monkey underwent baseline cerebral angiography followed by right-sided craniectomy and placement of subarachnoid clot around the middle cerebral artery ( mca ) . treatment was administered intravenously every 8 hours for 6 days . seven days after the experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) , angiography was repeated and the animals were killed . in the placebo-treated group , significant vasospasm occurred in the mca on the side of the clot ( p less than 0.01 ) . after u-74006f treatment at both dosages , significantly less vasospasm developed in the clot-side mca ( p less than 0.01 ) . the content of malondialdehyde was measured by both the thiobarbituric acid test and high-performance liquid chromatography ( hplc ) . comparing the two methods , hplc proved to be more accurate than the thiobarbituric acid test , especially for measurement of low concentrations of malondialdehyde . in the placebo-treated group , the malondialdehyde content was significantly increased in the day 7 clot ( p less than 0.05 ) . in contrast , malondialdehyde content in freshly prepared clot was very low . in the 0.3-mg / kg u-74006f group , the malondialdehyde content of clot was significantly less at day 7 compared to clot from the placebo-treated group ( p less than 0.05 ) . although the malondialdehyde content of clot from the 1.0 mg/kg u-74006f-treated group was less than that of placebo , it was not significantly so . malondialdehyde was not detected in the actual vessel wall of the mca of any group . these results suggest that lipid peroxidation in subarachnoid clot may play a role in the pathogenesis of vasospasm and that the salutary effects of u-74006f in vasospasm may be mediated by a reduction of lipid peroxidation in sah . 
superior hypophyseal artery aneurysm . report of two cases . two cases of saccular intracranial aneurysms arising from the superior hypophyseal artery take-off from the internal carotid artery are presented . the angiographic findings and technical details of the operative approach are discussed . particular attention is focused on the use of fenestrated angled clips . 
subarachnoid hemorrhage from a dissecting aneurysm of the middle cerebral artery . case report . a case of subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) from a dissecting aneurysm of the inferior limb of the middle cerebral artery is reported . the patient 's clinical status and the initial and follow-up angiographic appearance of the aneurysm are presented . diagnosis and treatment are briefly discussed . it is suggested that , if angiography demonstrates luminal narrowing or vascular occlusion in a patient with unexplained sah , a dissecting aneurysm of the carotid system should be considered as a cause of the hemorrhage . 
long-term outcome and prognostic indicators in the hemolytic-uremic syndrome . we examined 61 patients an average of 9.6 years ( range 5 to 18 years ) after an episode of childhood hemolytic-uremic syndrome . twenty-four ( 39 % ) had one or more abnormalities . seven ( 11 % ) had proteinuria and six ( 10 % ) had low creatinine clearance as solitary abnormalities . eight ( 13 % ) had both proteinuria and reduced creatinine clearance ; three ( 5 % ) had a combination of hypertension , proteinuria , and low creatinine clearance . abnormalities sometimes appeared after an interval of apparent recovery . logistic regression analysis showed that duration of anuria was the best predictor of disease at follow-up . no patients who had anuria lasting longer than 8 days or oliguria exceeding 15 days escaped chronic disease . however , 45 % of those with disease had no anuria , and a third had no oliguria . physicians should therefore be cautious in assuming recovery from hus on the basis of a single evaluation and should periodically evaluate patients for an extended period . 
the role of alpha adrenoceptor subtypes in sympathetic control of the acral-cutaneous microcirculation . in pithed and anesthetized rats , laser-doppler flowmetry was used to evaluate the role of alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenoceptors in mediating sympathetic responses in acral regions of the cutaneous circulation . the intravenous administration of the selective alpha-1 agonist , phenylephrine , was a more potent vasopressor agent than bh-t 933 ( a selective alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonist ) in pithed rats . however , bh-t 933 was more potent and more efficacious than phenylephrine in reducing cutaneous microvascular perfusion ( cp ) . bh-t 933 also caused a greater increase in cutaneous microvascular resistance . neural and humoral sympathetic effects on cp were characterized with selective alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenoceptor antagonists ( prazosin and rauwolscine , respectively ) . it was found that frequency-related reductions in cp elicited by sciatic nerve stimulation were antagonized by prazosin , but not by rauwolscine . in fact , rauwolscine enhanced neurally evoked reductions in cp at the highest stimulation frequencies . however , both prazosin and rauwolscine antagonized reductions in cp elicited by electrical stimulation of the thoracolumbar outflow ( sympathoadrenal activation ) . ganglionic stimulation ( intravenous 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium ) also caused a profound , transient reduction in cp that was abolished by rauwolscine , but was not significantly altered by prazosin . in contrast , 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium-induced increases in mean arterial pressure were reduced by prazosin , but not by rauwolscine . in ketamine-anesthetized rats , rauwolscine caused a dose-related increase in cp without altering mean arterial pressure , whereas prazosin lowered mean arterial pressure but did not alter cp . we conclude that acral regions of the cutaneous vasculature are more sensitive to alpha-2 vis-a-vis alpha-1 adrenoceptor-mediated vasoconstriction . 
peripheral alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenergic receptors in three models of hypertension in rats : an in vitro autoradiography study . in vitro autoradiography was used to compare peripheral alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenergic receptor binding in various tissues using [ 3h ] prazosin and [ 3h ] rauwolscine , respectively , in three models of experimental hypertension in rats . models studied included two-kidney , one-clip hypertension , one-kidney , one-clip hypertension , desoxycorticosterone-salt hypertension , and three normotensive control groups : two-kidney control , one-kidney control and salt-loaded control . blood pressures at death were significantly higher in all three hypertensive groups compared with normotensive controls , but there were no significant differences among the hypertensive or normotensive groups . plasma norepinephrine levels were significantly elevated in all three hypertensive groups compared with respective controls , with no significant differences among hypertensive or control groups . in all three hypertensive groups , there were significant reductions in binding of aortic and mesenteric vascular alpha-1 receptors , renal tubular alpha-1 and alpha-2 receptors , and adrenal cortical alpha-2 receptors when compared with respective control groups . reduced binding of cardiac ventricular alpha-1 and alpha-2 receptors was also found in all hypertensive groups , but not to statistically significant levels . no significant differences in intestinal alpha-1 and alpha-2 receptor binding were detected in either hypertensive or normotensive groups . the results suggest increased peripheral sympathetic activity in all three models of experimental hypertension , which is associated with down-regulation of alpha-1 and alpha-2 receptors in a number of peripheral tissues , especially those that control cardiovascular hemodynamics and fluid and salt balance . there is no evidence of an increase in peripheral alpha receptor binding as has often been found in some models of genetic or spontaneous hypertension . 
computed tomography in the evaluation of the aorta in patients sustaining blunt chest trauma . computed tomography is used with increasing frequency to evaluate blunt chest trauma . since traumatic aortic rupture ( tar ) is a rapidly lethal condition , unnecessary ct scanning may not be justified . to determine the accuracy of chest ct scanning for tar , we reviewed 17 patients who underwent both chest ct scanning and aortography . five patients had tar by aortography . ct scanning yielded three true positives and two false negatives . in 12 patients with a negative aortogram , ct scanning recorded four false positives and eight true negatives . the specificity was 23 % and the sensitivity was 83 % compared with aortography . the overall accuracy for ct scanning was 53 % . from these data we conclude that in the presence of an unstable patient or where there is a strong clinical suspicion of tar the patient should proceed directly to aortography . 
microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism causing subacute cor pulmonale : a difficult antemortem diagnosis [ published erratum appears in mayo clin proc 1991 apr ; 66 ( 4 ) :439 ] microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism is difficult to diagnose . the most common initial clinical symptom is subacute progressive dyspnea , and the initial laboratory evaluation typically shows hypoxemia in a patient with clear lung fields on a chest roentgenogram . another distinguishing feature may be hepatic abnormalities . in general , pulmonary angiography discloses no evidence of emboli , but multiple subsegmental peripheral perfusion defects are noted on ventilation-perfusion lung scans . the diagnosis of microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism can be confirmed by open-lung or transbronchial lung biopsy or by microvascular pulmonary cytology , a less invasive procedure that could be performed at the time of pulmonary angiography . herein we describe two patients with unsuspected microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism that eventuated in subacute cor pulmonale and death . these cases illustrate the characteristic findings of this entity and emphasize the need for early diagnosis . 
essential thrombocythemia in young adults . essential thrombocythemia is typically a disorder of adults in the sixth or seventh decade of life and is characterized by frequent thrombohemorrhagic complications . in young patients , the optimal management of complications is controversial . we studied 56 young adults ( 33 female and 23 male patients ) with a diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia . the mean duration of follow-up was 4.68 years . the mean platelet count at diagnosis was 1,328,000 / mm3 . platelet aggregation studies in 21 patients demonstrated hypoaggregation to epinephrine ; spontaneous platelet aggregation was present in 4 . at diagnosis , 39 patients were asymptomatic , and thrombocytosis was discovered incidentally . throughout follow-up ( up to 20 years ) , 24 patients remained asymptomatic . thrombotic complications developed in 24 patients ; they were life-threatening in only 3 . the most common vaso-occlusive symptoms were migraine headache ( in 12 patients ) and erythromelalgia ( in 3 ) . minor hemorrhagic complications occurred in six patients , and none was life-threatening . serious complications ( one cerebral and two myocardial infarctions ) occurred in three patients , all of whom recovered . two deaths occurred , neither of which was attributable to essential thrombocythemia . the treatment regimens used were chemotherapy in 9 patients , antiaggregating agents in 7 , radioactive phosphorus in 1 , the newer platelet-lowering agent anagrelide in 10 , and only observation in 29 . no treatment-related acute leukemias developed . this series of young patients with essential thrombocythemia , the largest to date , demonstrates a low incidence of life-threatening complications and a favorable long-term prognosis . therapeutic recommendations should remain conservative , and potential leukemogens should be avoided unless serious complications develop . anagrelide may be useful in young patients with thrombocythemia who are symptomatic . 
divergent effects of serotonin on coronary-artery dimensions and blood flow in patients with coronary atherosclerosis and control patients background . studies in animals have shown that serotonin constricts coronary arteries if the endothelium is damaged , but in vitro studies have revealed a vasodilating effect on isolated coronary segments with an intact endothelium . to investigate the effect of serotonin in humans , we studied coronary-artery cross-sectional area and blood flow before and after the infusion of serotonin in seven patients with angiographically normal coronary arteries and in seven with coronary artery disease . methods . we measured the cross-sectional area of the coronary artery by quantitative angiography and coronary blood flow with an intracoronary doppler catheter . measurements were obtained at base line and during intracoronary infusions of serotonin ( 0.1 , 1 , and 10 micrograms per kilogram of body weight per minute , for two minutes ) . we repeated the measurements after an infusion of ketanserin , an antagonist of serotonin receptors that is thought to block the effect of serotonin on receptors in the arterial wall but not in the endothelium . results . in patients with normal coronary arteries , the highest dose of serotonin increased cross-sectional area by 52 percent ( p less than 0.001 ) and blood flow by 58 percent ( p less than 0.01 ) . the effect was significantly potentiated by administration of ketanserin . in patients with coronary-artery atherosclerosis , serotonin reduced cross-sectional area by 64 percent ( p less than 0.001 ) and blood flow by 59 percent ( p less than 0.001 ) . ketanserin prevented this effect . conclusions . serotonin has a vasodilating effect on normal human coronary arteries ; when the endothelium is damaged , as in coronary artery disease , serotonin has a direct , unopposed vasoconstricting effect . when considered with other evidence , these data suggest that platelet-derived factors such as serotonin may have a role in certain acute coronary ischemic syndromes . 
effect of intracoronary serotonin on coronary vessels in patients with stable angina and patients with variant angina background . serotonin , a major product of platelet activation , has potent vasoactive effects in animal models , but its role in human coronary artery disease remains largely speculative . methods . using quantitative coronary angiography , we compared the effects of the intracoronary infusion of graded concentrations of serotonin ( 10 ( -7 ) to 10 ( -4 ) mol per liter ) on coronary vessels in two groups of patients with different clinical presentations of coronary disease ( nine with stable angina and five with variant angina ) , with the effects in a control group of eight subjects with normal vessels on angiography . results . normal coronary vessels had a biphasic response to intracoronary serotonin : dilation at concentrations up to 10 ( -5 ) mol per liter , but constriction at 10 ( -4 ) mol per liter . vessels in patients with stable angina constricted at all concentrations , with mean ( + / - sem ) maximal decreases in diameter of 23.9 + / - 3.6 , 33.1 + / - 3.9 , and 41.7 + / - 3.1 percent from base line in proximal , middle , and distal segments at a serotonin concentration of 10 ( -4 ) mol per liter . smooth segments constricted more than irregular segments ( 42.0 + / - 4.6 vs. 21.1 + / - 1.6 percent ) . four patients with stable angina had a marked reduction in collateral filling . all the patients with stable angina had angina during the intracoronary infusion of serotonin , and electrocardiographic changes were noted in six . all the patients with variant angina had angina , electrocardiographic changes , and localized occlusive epicardial coronary-artery spasm at concentrations of 10 ( -6 ) ( n = 2 ) or 10 ( -5 ) ( n = 3 ) mol per liter . conclusions . patients with stable coronary disease do not have the normal vasodilator response to intracoronary serotonin , but rather have progressive constriction , which is particularly intense in small distal and collateral vessels . patients with variant angina have occlusive coronary-artery spasm at a dose that dilates normal vessels and causes only slight constriction in vessels from patients with stable angina . these findings suggest that serotonin , released after the intracoronary activation of platelets , may contribute to or cause myocardial ischemia in patients with coronary artery disease . 
orbitozygomatic temporopolar approach for a high basilar tip aneurysm associated with a short intracranial internal carotid artery : a new surgical approach . for two cases of a high basilar tip aneurysm accompanied by a short intracranial internal carotid artery , the orbitozygomatic temporopolar approach consisting of an en bloc fronto-orbitozygomatic temporal craniotomy and temporopolar approach was carried out . on angiograms , the height of the bifurcation of an elongated basilar artery and the length of the intracranial internal carotid artery from the interclinoid line between the anterior and posterior clinoid process were 20 mm and 6 mm in case 1 , and 18 mm and 5 mm in case 2 , respectively . the skin flap was separated subfascially to preserve the frontotemporal branch of the facial nerve . the fronto-orbitozygomatic temporal bone flap was made , and a part of the basal bony structures of the orbital roof , the sphenoid ridge , and the temporal bone were removed . the basilar tip aneurysm could be seen and clipped easily by upward and oblique viewing from below through the wide operative space consisting of the less retracted internal carotid and middle cerebral arteries , the oculomotor nerve , the tentorial hiatus , and the emptied anterior temporal fossa obtained by partial division of the temporal bridging veins . the operative procedure is presented in detail and compared with other surgical approaches that have been described previously . 
rupture of a giant carotid aneurysm after extracranial-to-intracranial bypass surgery . we report a case of a fatal rupture of a previously unruptured giant aneurysm of the bifurcation of the internal carotid artery ( ica ) , which occurred after an extracranial-intracranial ( ec-ic ) bypass and the partial occlusion of the ica . interim angiography showed retrograde filling of the proximal middle cerebral artery to the aneurysm . there have been four previously reported cases of giant aneurysms rupturing after treatment with an ec-ic bypass and carotid ligation , and it appears likely that a change in pressure/flow dynamics produced by the bypass may have been the cause . the technique of carotid ligation with an ec-ic bypass is used frequently to treat unclippable intracranial aneurysms , and the resulting hemodynamic changes need to be considered carefully to prevent this type of complication . to minimize hemodynamic stress on the aneurysm , we suggest that 1 ) the bypass caliber should be as small as possible consistent with sufficient cerebral blood flow after ica occlusion , and 2 ) complete ica occlusion should be performed as soon as possible after the bypass . 
failure of transluminal angioplasty in the treatment of myointimal hyperplasia of the internal carotid artery : case report . recurrent stenosis of the carotid arteries after a carotid endarterectomy for atherosclerosis can occur as a result of myointimal hyperplasia . this condition was treated by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty . excellent dilatation of the vessel lumen was documented after balloon dilatation . a 6-month follow-up angiographic study , however , demonstrated recurrent high-grade stenosis at the same level in both carotid arteries . presumably , the failure of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and the treatment of myointimal hyperplasia of the internal carotid artery results in the same condition after the original endarterectomy , that is , additional myointimal hyperplasia . 
a study of the effectiveness of the iron-chelating agent deferoxamine as vasospasm prophylaxis in a rabbit model of subarachnoid hemorrhage . the pathogenesis of cerebral vasospasm occurring after subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) is unknown . several lines of experimentation have suggested a free radical mechanism in the etiology of vasospasm . iron is an important catalyst in the generation of free radicals and lipid peroxides in response to tissue injury . we hypothesize that the elaboration of iron from the subarachnoid clot might result in enhanced generation of free radicals and lipid peroxidation . if so , then treatment with deferoxamine , an iron-chelating compound , might reduce the formation of free radicals and thereby ameliorate vasospasm . this hypothesis was examined in a rabbit model of experimental cerebral vasospasm . new zealand white rabbits were divided into the following experimental groups : control ( normal ) animals ( n = 7 ) , control animals treated with deferoxamine ( n = 3 ) , animals subjected to sah and killed on day 2 ( n = 7 ) , animals subjected to sah on day 2 and treated with deferoxamine ( n = 9 ) , animals subjected to sah killed on day 3 ( n = 7 ) , and animals subjected to sah on day 3 and treated with deferoxamine ( n = 7 ) . deferoxamine treatment ( 50 mg/kg/8 hours ) was begun 16 hours before the induction of sah and continued until the animals were killed by perfusion fixation . the basilar artery caliber was assessed using morphometric techniques . the diameter of the basilar arteries in the control animals was 0.64 + / - 0.02 mm . deferoxamine treatment alone did not alter the artery diameter . 
impairment of cerebral autoregulation during the development of chronic cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage in primates . we studied the impairment of autoregulation of cerebral blood flow ( cbf ) and its effect on the electrical activity of the brain during the development of chronic cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage , using a vasospasm model in primates . fourteen animals were divided into two groups : a clot group ( 8 ) and a sham-operated group ( 6 ) . to induce subarachnoid hemorrhage , all the animals underwent craniectomy , and in the clot group , the autologous blood clot was located around the arteries dissected free from the arachnoid membrane . cerebral angiography was performed before subarachnoid hemorrhage and 7 days after ( day 7 ) . on day 7 , regional cbf in the parietal lobe -- measured by the hydrogen clearance method -- and central conduction time were studied during either graded hypertension or hypotension . in the clot group , the mean vessel caliber of the cerebral arteries on the right side ( clot side ) of the circle of willis showed significant ( p less than 0.01 ) reduction ( more than 40 % ) as compared with the values on the contralateral , non-clot side . the values for the bilateral parietal cbf in the sham-operated group and the left parietal cbf in the clot group were fairly constant when the mean arterial blood pressure ( mabp ) was in the range of 60 to 160 mm hg . in the clot group , right parietal cbf was significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) smaller than that on the left side at an mabp level of 40 to 100 mm hg , and increased at an mabp level of 180 mm hg . the right parietal cbf increased as the arterial blood pressure increased , showing impairment of autoregulation . 
the effect of continuous drainage of cerebrospinal fluid in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage : a retrospective analysis of 108 patients . the effects of continuous drainage of cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) on vasospasm and hydrocephalus were analyzed retrospectively in 108 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) who were operated on for ruptured aneurysms within 48 hours of their onset . ninety-two of these patients underwent a procedure for csf drainage ( cisternal drainage , ventricular drainage , lumbar drainage , or a combination of these ) . the duration , the total volume , and the average daily volume of csf drainage were 10.4 + / - 7.0 days ( mean + / - sd ) . 2034 + / - 1566 ml , and 190 + / - 65.3 ml , respectively . patients with a greater drainage volume at a lower height of drainage in the early period after sah developed more cerebral infarctions later ( p less than 0.025 ) . the relationship between the total volume of csf removed and shunt-dependent hydrocephalus was determined to be statistically significant ( p less than 0.005 ) . cerebral infarction and hydrocephalus after sah were also found to be statistically associated ( p less than 0.001 ) . thus , continuous cerebrospinal fluid drainage should not be performed too readily in patients with sah , because the removal of a large amount of csf can induce cerebral vasospasm as well as hydrocephalus . 
cavernous malformations and capillary telangiectasia : a spectrum within a single pathological entity . cerebral vascular malformations have traditionally been divided into four categories : arteriovenous , venous , cavernous , and capillary telangiectases . a controversy exists about separating the latter two lesions into separate entities . critics claim the distinction is arbitrary but have been unable to present convincing evidence linking the two types of lesions . we have reviewed the histories of 20 patients with cavernous malformations and have analyzed the clinical , radiographic , and surgical-autopsy data associated with these lesions . in some patients , multiple lesions , including cavernous malformations , capillary telangiectases , and transitional forms between the two , were identified . based on this analysis , we conclude that capillary telangiectasia and cavernous malformations represent two pathological extremes within the same vascular malformation category and propose grouping them as a single cerebral entity called cerebral capillary malformations . 
blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome with oral hemangiomas . a case of blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome with oral hemangiomas is reported . attention is directed to this syndrome because , although rare , it is usually associated with oral lesions . the blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome should always be considered a possibility in patients with oral hemangiomas and bluish skin nodules . 
depression after acute myocardial infarction . the role of primary care physicians in rehabilitation . depression is a common problem after myocardial infarction . diagnosis is facilitated by use of the criteria for depression in the diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders and self-rating questionnaires . treatment may involve both psychological and pharmacologic interventions . the patient 's medical status must be carefully assessed before administration of antidepressant medication . all antidepressants are contraindicated immediately after myocardial infarction . when signs and symptoms of depression are exhibited early in the recovery phase , alprazolam ( xanax ) may offer advantages over more traditional antidepressants . further research is necessary to determine the safety of newer antidepressants . 
postangiographic femoral artery injuries : nonsurgical repair with us-guided compression ultrasound-guided compression repair ( ugcr ) of catheterization-related femoral artery injuries was evaluated as a possible new imaging-guided interventional procedure . thirty-nine femoral artery injuries ( 35 pseudoaneurysms , four arteriovenous fistulas ) were detected with color doppler flow imaging in patients with enlarging groin hematomas and/or groin bruits 6 hours to 14 days after catheterization procedures . ugcr was not performed in 10 patients due to spontaneous thrombosis ( n = 4 ) , infection ( n = 1 ) or skin ischemia ( n = 1 ) , unsuitable anatomy ( n = 3 ) , or excessive discomfort ( n = 1 ) . the remaining 29 patients underwent a full trial of compression therapy , and the lesion was eliminated in 27 . follow-up color flow scans were obtained after 24-72 hours in all 27 successful cases and at 1-15 months in 19 ; no recurrences or complications occurred . ugcr for acute injuries is safe and technically simple and is promising as a cost-effective , first-line treatment for uncomplicated catheterization-related femoral artery injuries . ugcr is probably not appropriate for long-standing injuries . 
us-assisted aspiration thrombectomy : in vitro investigations . the authors describe the use of a new ultrasound ( us ) - aspiration thrombectomy technique . an oscillating us probe was inserted into a thin-walled , large-bore aspiration catheter . experiments tested the ability of the new device and other catheter combinations to remove clot material from a petri dish , as well as from small and large vessel models made of silicone and glass tubes , respectively . results of the experiments demonstrated that an oscillating 1.0-mm us probe inserted into an aspiration catheter ( 7-9 f in diameter ) promoted clot fragmentation and allowed continuous aspiration of thrombi of any size . when compared with simple large-bore catheter aspiration and with mechanical fragmentation by means of a us probe within a catheter that was flushed to cool the probe , us-assisted aspiration thrombectomy demonstrated significantly better results for percutaneous transcatheter removal of fresh thrombi . 
two urokinase dose regimens in native arterial and graft occlusions : initial results of a prospective , randomized clinical trial . the effects of two urokinase ( uk ) dose regimens on lysis time , lytic success , primary clinical success , and frequency of complications of peripheral thrombolysis were compared . seventy-two intraarterial uk infusions were performed by means of standard catheter-directed infusion techniques in 63 patients with symptomatic peripheral arterial or bypass graft occlusions . patients were prospectively randomized to high-dose ( 250,000 u/h for 4 hours and then 125,000 u/h ) or low-dose ( 50,000 u/h ) regimens . the mean time to complete lysis was 20.8 , 26.0 , 16.5 , and 18.2 hours for the high-dose artery , low-dose artery , high-dose graft , and low-dose graft groups , respectively ( p was not significant ) . respective mean infusion durations were 27.1 , 35.4 , 22.2 , and 25.3 hours . clinical success was achieved in 65 % -85 % of cases . the frequency of complications was equivalent between groups , except for a higher frequency of minor bleeding complications in the high-dose group . the two urokinase dose regimens studied were equally effective in enabling peripheral thrombolysis . 
peripheral arterial occlusive disease : prospective comparison of mr angiography and color duplex us with conventional angiography . conventional angiography , two-dimensional inflow magnetic resonance ( mr ) angiography , and color duplex ultrasound ( us ) were performed on 12 patients in a blinded , prospective study . the ability to grade arterial lesions and plan revascularization interventions were compared . arterial lesions were categorized as nonsignificant ( 0 % -49 % diameter reduction ) or significant ( 50 % -100 % diameter reduction ) . determination of nonsignificant and significant lesions with mr angiography was in agreement with that at conventional angiography in 100 of 140 lesions ( 71 % ) . agreement between results of conventional angiography and color duplex us occurred with 114 of 123 infrainguinal lesions ( 93 % ) . twenty-one vascular interventions were planned by using conventional angiography ; there was agreement with color duplex us in 11 cases and mr angiography in five . color duplex us performed well in the assessment of infrainguinal disease but was limited in the evaluation of iliac segments because of nonvisualization . the iliac region was visualized in more patients with mr angiography than with color duplex us , but image quality with mr angiography was inconsistent . strategies to improve mr angiography of the peripheral vasculature merit further study . 
quantification of vascular stenosis with color doppler flow imaging : in vitro investigations . the accuracy of quantifying the degree of vascular stenosis with color doppler flow imaging ( 7.5-mhz , linear array system ) was determined in an experimental study carried out on six concentric and five eccentric model stenoses ( cross-sectional area reduction , 13.4 % -93.8 % ) . the measurements were made with use of pulsatile flow at four different flow rates ( 70.8-339 .0 ml/min ) . the degree of stenosis was calculated from the ratio of prestenotic to intrastenotic flow velocity . the most exact measurement of the degree of stenosis could be achieved with doppler spectral analysis by determining the maximum peak systolic velocity ( r = .994 , y = 0.98 x - 3.2 ) . with the velocity values derived only from the color-coded image , it was also possible to find the most exact degree of stenosis ( r = .995 , y = 0.99 x - 2.9 ) . for quantification of stenosis , pre - and intrastenotic doppler spectral analysis is no longer necessary if the stenosis can be imaged sufficiently with color doppler . 
pancreatic transplantation : radiologic evaluation of vascular complications . transplantation of the pancreas is an increasingly common therapeutic option for preventing or delaying complications of type i diabetes mellitus . the authors studied the relative roles of various radiologic examinations in diagnosing vascular complications in these grafts including arterial and venous thrombosis , stenosis , and anastomotic leak ( the most common vascular factors that necessitate pancreatectomy of the transplant ) , as defined with pathologic or arteriographic data . the results of 78 scintigraphic flow studies , 40 abdominal and pelvic computed tomographic ( ct ) scans , 27 sonograms , and eight color doppler studies were evaluated in 52 patients who received a total of 27 cadaveric and 26 living-donor grafts over a 12-year period . these results were correlated with the data from 45 gross and microscopic pathologic studies and 37 arteriograms to determine their relative value in enabling detection of graft thrombosis and other vascular complications . scintigraphy , ct , sonography , and color doppler were all sensitive in detection of generalized graft abnormalities but lacked specificity in defining the underlying etiologic factors . 
renal vein renins : inability to predict response to revascularization in patients with hypertension . to determine whether the captopril-stimulated renal vein renin ratio ( csrvrr ) could enable identification of patients with hemodynamically significant renovascular lesions who would respond to revascularization , the authors measured csrvrrs in 143 consecutive patients with hypertension who had been selected because of clinical features suggestive of renovascular hypertension . all patients underwent conventional renal arteriography . renovascular hypertension was the final diagnosis if revascularization resulted in cure or improvement in blood pressure . complete data were available for 133 patients . twenty patients had renovascular hypertension ; csrvrr was greater than 1.5 in 13 of these 20 patients ( sensitivity , 65 % ) . however , it was also greater than 1.5 in 54 of the 113 patients without renovascular hypertension ( false-positive rate , 47.8 % ) . the positive predictive value of csrvrr was 18.6 % ; the negative predictive value , 89.3 % . it is concluded that csrvrr is not sufficiently sensitive to enable prediction of which patients will respond to revascularization and is not specific enough to exclude patients who do not have renovascular hypertension . 
patient evaluation for cardiac transplantation . the aim for cardiac transplantation is to improve the quality of life and the survival in patients with end-stage heart failure . given the scarcity of donor organ availability , the expense of the transplantation process and follow-up care , as well as the tremendous emotional burden the process places on a patient and his/her family , it is essential to carefully screen potential candidates for their symptomatic , functional , hemodynamic , and psychosocial eligibility , and to rule out coexisting hemodynamic or comorbid conditions that would jeopardize successful transplantation and immunosuppression . comprehensive screening of potential transplant candidates , which is best accomplished by a multidisciplinary team approach working closely with patients and their families , is essential to insure that maximum benefit is derived from this scarce and valuable resource . 
heparin as the cause of coagulopathy which may complicate grafting of the liver . disposal of heparin is accomplished rapidly by the normal liver , but the effects of ischemia , flushing and hypothermia during hepatic transplantation have not been investigated before . the results of the present study showed that neither laparotomy , hypothermia nor insertion of the portosystemic bypass seemed markedly to affect the coagulation profile , but autograft associated with 30 to 45 minutes of warm ischemia resulted in a twofold prolongation of the t1/2 heparin as calculated from sequential measurements of the activated clotting time . unexpectedly , the storage of livers for four hours in eurocollins solutions seemed to result in more rapid disappearance of heparin than in animals after laparotomy . after hepatectomy , the clearance of heparin was delayed for two hours but , thereafter , the slope of the disappearance resembled that in sham operated animals . autograft and allograft of livers in normal pigs that did not receive transfusion were also associated with changes in fibrinolysis and declining levels of fibrinogen together with severe intraoperative bleeding problems and rapid death on the operating table in 30 per cent of the pigs . while administration of heparin alone did not appear to precipitate these changes , use of the drug after dissection , mobilization and storage of the liver may release other tissue factors that activate fibrinolysis . 
electrocardiographic subset analysis of diltiazem administration on long-term outcome after acute myocardial infarction . the multicenter diltiazem post-infarction trial research group . the effect of diltiazem on long-term outcome after acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) was assessed in 2,377 patients enrolled in the multicenter diltiazem post-infarction trial and subsequently followed for 25 + / - 8 months . the study population included 855 patients ( 36 % ) with at least 1 prior ami before the index infarction and 1,522 patients ( 64 % ) with a first ami , of whom 409 ( 27 % ) had a first non-q-wave ami , 664 ( 44 % ) a first inferior q-wave ami , and 449 ( 30 % ) a first anterior q-wave ami . this post hoc analysis revealed that , among patients with first non-q-wave and first inferior q-wave ami , there were fewer cardiac events during follow-up in the diltiazem than in the placebo group , and that the reverse was true for patients with first anterior q-wave ami or prior infarction . the diltiazem : placebo cox hazard ratio ( 95 % confidence limits ) for the trial primary end point ( cardiac death or nonfatal reinfarction , whichever occurred first ) was : first non-q-wave ami-0 .48 ( 0.26 , 0.89 ) ; first inferior q-wave ami-0 .66 ( 0.40 , 1.09 ) ; first anterior q-wave ami-0 .82 ( 0.51 , 1.31 ) ; and prior ami-1 .11 ( 0.85 , 1.44 ) . use of cardiac death alone as an end point gave an even more sharply focused treatment difference : first non-q-wave ami-0 .46 ( 0.18 , 1.21 ) ; first inferior q-wave ami-0 .53 ( 0.27 , 1.06 ) ; first anterior q-wave ami-1 .28 ( 0.68 , 2.40 ) ; prior infarction-1 .26 ( 0.90 , 1.77 ) . further analysis revealed that these differences in the effect of diltiazem in large part reflected the different status of the 4 electrocardiographically defined subsets in terms of left ventricular function . 
exercise echocardiography and technetium-99m mibi single-photon emission computed tomography in the detection of coronary artery disease . to compare the relative diagnostic value of exercise echocardiography with perfusion technetium-99m metoxyisobutylisonitrile single-photon emission computed tomography ( spect ) in detecting coronary artery disease ( cad ) , 75 patients with suspected cad but a normal electrocardiogram ( ecg ) at rest were included in a prospective correlative study . both the exercise echocardiograms and spect studies were performed in conjunction with the same symptom-limited bicycle exercise test . the development of either a new wall motion abnormality or a reversible perfusion defect after exercise , or both , were regarded as a positive test for the exercise echocardiographic and spect studies , respectively . the results of these 2 diagnostic tests were compared with coronary arteriography . exercise echocardiography identified 35 ( 71 % ) and spect 41 ( 84 % , p = 0.13 ) of the 49 patients with significant cad ( defined as greater than 50 % diameter stenosis ) . twenty-five of the 26 patients ( 96 % ) without significant coronary stenosis had negative exercise echocardiographic results and 23 of 26 ( 88 % ) had negative spect results . exercise-induced new wall motion abnormalities showed a good correlation with reversible perfusion defects , and the results of the 2 methods were concordant in 65 of 75 patients ( agreement = 88 % , kappa = 0.75 + / - 0.14 ) . both the diagnostic accuracy of exercise echocardiography and spect were significantly higher than the exercise ecg ( 81 vs 64 % , p less than 0.02 and 88 vs 64 % , p less than 0.005 ) . the sensitivity and specificity for detecting individual diseased vessels were 60 and 95 % for exercise echocardiography and 67 and 94 % for spect . 
impaired left ventricular filling and regional diastolic asynchrony at rest in coronary artery disease and relation to exercise-induced myocardial ischemia . impaired left ventricular ( lv ) diastolic filling at rest is frequently observed in patients with coronary artery disease ( cad ) who have normal lv systolic function and no previous infarction . to test the hypothesis that abnormal diastolic function at rest might reflect the functional severity of cad , as estimated by exercise-induced ischemia , the relation between regional and global lv diastolic function at rest and during exercise-induced ischemia was evaluated in 49 patients with radionuclide angiography . all patients had normal systolic function at rest . group 1 ( n = 26 ) patients manifested a normal ejection fraction response to exercise and group 2 ( n = 23 ) patients an abnormal response . data obtained from 22 age-comparable normal volunteers were used for comparison . although regional and global diastolic function were not different between normal subjects and group 1 patients , peak filling rate was lower in group 2 patients than in normal subjects ( 2.5 + / - 0.8 vs 3.2 + / - 0.6 end-diastolic counts/s ; p less than 0.01 ) . moreover , regional diastolic asynchrony , as assessed from the radionuclide data by using a regional sector analysis of the lv region of interest , was greater in group 2 patients ( 46 + / - 44 ms ) than in both normal subjects ( 25 + / - 16 ms ; p less than 0.05 ) and group 1 patients ( 23 + / - 16 ms ; p less than 0.05 ) . thus , among patients with cad and with normal lv systolic function at rest , impaired lv filling and regional asynchrony predict a greater degree of exercise-induced ischemia , suggesting a greater extent of jeopardized myocardium . 
predictors of cardiac survival after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction . to assess the outcome of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) in patients with severe left ventricular ( lv ) dysfunction and to determine the predictors of mortality , 73 patients with lv ejection fraction less than or equal to 40 % who underwent initial ptca were analyzed . the majority of patients had prior ( greater than 1 week ) myocardial infarction ( 62 patients , 85 % ) . congestive heart failure and unstable angina were present in 24 ( 45 % ) and 49 ( 67 % ) patients , respectively . multivessel coronary artery disease was present in 60 ( 83 % ) . the lv ejection fraction ranged from 14 to 40 % ( mean 34 % ) . intraaortic balloon pump ( 15 % ) and percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass support ( 4 % ) was used infrequently . angiographic success was obtained in 109 of 128 lesions ( 85 % ) attempted . complete revascularization was obtained in 16 of 60 patients with clinical success . procedure-related mortality was 5 % ( 4 patients ) . all patients were followed from greater than or equal to 6 to less than or equal to 71 months ( average 26 ) . the estimated survival was 79 + / - 5 % , 74 + / - 6 % , 66 + / - 7 % and 57 + / - 8 % at 1 , 2 , 3 and 4 years , respectively . a cox regression analysis revealed that the presence of congestive heart failure , a lower lv ejection fraction and a higher myocardial jeopardy score for contractile myocardium were independent predictors of survival after ptca in patients with lv dysfunction . in conclusion , a high-risk subset can be identified among patients with severe lv dysfunction who undergo ptca . 
effects of diltiazem on complications and restenosis after coronary angioplasty . a randomized , placebo-controlled , double-blinded trial was performed to evaluate the usefulness of empiric therapy with a calcium antagonist in patients who undergo coronary angioplasty . a total of 201 patients were randomized to placebo or to high-dose diltiazem ( mean dose , 329 mg/day ) . treatment began 24 hours before angioplasty . restenosis was assessed by percent area stenosis as determined by quantitative angiographic techniques before , immediately and 1 year after angioplasty . all patients also received aspirin and dipyridamole before angioplasty . heparin and verapamil were administered intravenously during the procedure . the 2 groups were similar with respect to age , extent of coronary artery disease , smoking history , and baseline lipid levels . procedural complications , including death ( 1 vs 1 ) , q-wave infarction ( 0 vs 3 ) , acute occlusion ( 5 vs 5 ) and focal spasm ( 0 vs 0 ) , were not significantly different in the diltiazem and placebo patients , respectively . freedom from all acute complications was noted in 85 % of patients in both groups . one-year angiographic follow-up was obtained in 60 % of patients . restenosis rates were similar : 36 % in the diltiazem group and 32 % in the placebo group ( p = 0.30 ) . the incidence of late cardiac events ( death , q-wave myocardial infarction , recurrent angina or coronary bypass graft surgery ) was similar in the 2 groups . thus , diltiazem did not influence the overall restenosis rate or prevent late events after coronary angioplasty . 
sudden cardiac death while wearing a holter monitor . the holter tapes of 61 patients ( 46 men , mean age + / - standard deviation 65 + / - 11 years ) with sudden cardiac death while being monitored were analyzed . thirty-eight patients were known to have coronary artery disease , 5 had cardiomyopathy , and 7 had aortic valve disease . etiology remained unknown in 11 patients . mean new york heart association functional class was 2.5 + / - 0.7 . thirty patients had received antiarrhythmic drugs and 32 had received digitalis . sudden death occurred at rest in 73 % . in the hours before death , repetitive ventricular arrhythmias were found in 50 patients ( 82 % ) , with atrial fibrillation in 34 % . patients with bradyarrhythmic death ( 18 % ) had less complex ventricular activity compared to patients with tachyarrhythmic death ( p less than 0.01 ) . lethal arrhythmias -- monomorphic ventricular tachycardia , polymorphic ventricular tachycardia , torsades de pointes , primary ventricular fibrillation , and 1:1 conducting atrial tachycardia -- were found in 26 ( 43 % ) , 15 ( 25 % ) , 5 ( 8 % ) , 3 ( 5 % ) , and 1 patient , respectively . the coupling interval of the final ventricular tachycardia correlated inversely with the initial frequency of ventricular tachycardia ( p less than 0.05 ) . for patients with tachyarrhythmic death , an increase of heart rate within the last 3 hours was noted ( 83 vs 89 beats/min , p less than 0.05 ) . ventricular premature complexes and the proportion of patients with greater than 2 couplets and greater than 2 triplets increased significantly only within the last hour before death . 
late results of the left subcostal approach for automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator implantation . a left subcostal surgical approach was used to implant an automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator ( aicd ) in 48 patients with a history of nonfatal cardiac arrest or documented ventricular tachycardia/fibrillation . electrophysiologic studies before surgery yielded induction of monomorphic or polymorphic ventricular tachycardia in 40 patients , whereas 8 were noninducible . mean ( + / - standard deviation ) age was 58 + / - 12 years . mean ejection fraction was 33 + / - 16 % . thirty patients ( 63 % ) had documented coronary artery disease ; 14 patients ( 29 % ) had previous coronary bypass surgery . the mean intraoperative defibrillation threshold was 13.8 + / - 6.6 j. in 6 patients , an adjunctive right minithoracotomy was used to position 1 patch over the right atrium and thus optimize the defibrillation threshold . patients with prior exposure to amiodarone and previous coronary bypass surgery had higher defibrillation thresholds at implantation . two perioperative deaths occurred . there were no infections . long-term follow-up yielded a 1 - and 5-year survival of 0.88 and 0.58 , respectively , and a freedom from sudden cardiac death of 1.0 and 0.97 , respectively . the nonthoracotomy , left subcostal surgical approach is safe and effective , provides adequate defibrillation thresholds in most patients , and yields long-term survival comparable to other implantation techniques . 
beneficial effect of atrial pacing in severe acute aortic regurgitation and role of m-mode echocardiography in determining the optimal pacing interval . the effect of atrial pacing on cardiac performance was assessed in 11 men ( aged 20 to 64 years ) with recent-onset severe aortic regurgitation ( ar ) , all of whom had diastolic closure of the mitral valve on the echocardiogram . thermodilution cardiac outputs were determined , and aortic , left ventricular and pulmonary arterial wedge pressures recorded . once baseline recordings were completed , the pacing rate was increased by increments of 10 beats/min ( 70 , 80 , 90 ... ) to a maximal rate of 140 beats/min . the optimal pacing interval , obtained from hemodynamic data , was defined as that at which the lowest filling pressure was associated with the highest cardiac index . this was then compared with a pacing interval derived from the r wave of the electrocardiogram to the diastolic mitral closing point on the m-mode echocardiogram . such an interval would shorten diastole without affecting forward mitral flow . atrial pacing improved the overall hemodynamic state in all patients ; the most favorable hemodynamics were achieved at heart rates between 110 and 130 beats/min ( mean : 120 + / - 8 ) . at the optimal rate , left ventricular end-diastolic pressure decreased from 46 + / - 7 to 23 + / - 12 mm hg ( p less than 0.001 ) , and the pulmonary arterial wedge pressure from 28 + / - 8 to 16 + / - 7 mm hg ( p less than 0.001 ) , while the cardiac index increased from 2.34 + / - 0.46 to 2.63 + / - 0.49 liters/min/m2 ( p less than 0.01 ) . the mean difference between the optimal pacing interval determined from the hemodynamic data and the interval derived from the echocardiogram was 18 + / - 21 ms. 
simultaneous occurrence of mitral valve prolapse and systolic anterior motion in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . this report describes the simultaneous occurrence of mitral valve prolapse ( mvp ) and systolic anterior motion ( sam ) in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ( hc ) . in 25 patients ( aged 7 to 62 years , mean 29 ) , 15 ( 60 % ) of whom were male , distal portions of the anterior or posterior mitral leaflets approached or made midsystolic contact with the ventricular septum , whereas the proximal portion of the mitral leaflets showed marked cephalad excursion into the left atrium , 5 to 15 mm beyond the mitral annular plane . three mitral valves that were available for gross visual inspection were not morphologically typical of patients with primary mvp . clinical features and natural history ( 1 to 14 years [ mean 6 ] of follow-up ) , cardiac dimensions , and distribution of left ventricular hypertrophy defined in the study patients did not appear to differ distinctly from those in the overall referral population of patients with hc evaluated at our institution . hence , patients with hc may show a striking pattern of mitral valvular motion involving sam into the left ventricular outflow tract , as well as mvp ; this prolapse motion is probably due to anatomic disproportion between the mitral valve and the small left ventricular cavity rather than to the coexistence of 2 separate disease entities . such patients further define the great diversity evident within the broad clinical spectrum of hc . 
comparison of left ventricular ejection fraction by magnetic resonance imaging and radionuclide ventriculography in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy . to assess the validity of gated magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) in determining left ventricular ( lv ) ejection fraction ( ef ) , mri ( spin echo , multislice-multiphase technique on the short-axis plane ) was compared with equilibrium radionuclide ventriculography in 32 patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy . all patients underwent mri and radionuclide ventriculography , performed consecutively on the same day ( mean time interval between the 2 examinations : 40 minutes ) . comparison with lvef showed a high correlation ( y = 0.79 x +3.51 , r = 0.91 ; p less than 0.001 ) . mean difference between radionuclide ventriculography and mri data was 1.7 , with the 95 % confidence interval 0.71 to 2.68 : mri slightly underestimated lvef . mri interobserver and intrapatient variability ( assessed in 15 of 32 patients ) showed a high correlation ( r = 0.91 , r = 0.98 ) . in conclusion , data suggest that mri , using the short-axis approach and the multislice-multiphase technique , is an accurate , noninvasive , highly reproducible method of evaluating lvef in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy . 
stroke volume during submaximal exercise in endurance-trained normotensive subjects and in untrained hypertensive subjects with beta blockade ( propranolol and pindolol ) . the effect of beta-adrenergic blockade on stroke volume ( sv ) at increasing submaximal exercise intensities was studied in 12 endurance-trained normotensive and 12 untrained hypertensive ( diastolic blood pressure greater than 95 mm hg ) men , aged 18 to 34 years . subjects were assigned to each of 3 treatments in a double-blind , randomized order : placebo , propranolol ( 80 mg twice daily ) and pindolol ( 10 mg twice daily ) for 10 days , with a period of 48 to 60 hours from the initial dose to the first treadmill test and a 4-day washout period between drugs . cardiac output was measured using the carbon dioxide rebreathing method and sv was calculated from cardiac output and heart rate as follows : sv = cardiac output/heart rate . cardiac outputs were estimated at rest and while walking on a treadmill at 25 , 45 , 60 and 75 % of the subject 's previously determined maximal oxygen uptake ( vo2max ) . no significant differences were found in cardiac output between either of the drugs and placebo at rest , or at any of the 4 rates of work . propranolol significantly increased sv above placebo values ( p less than 0.05 ) for both trained and untrained groups at the intensities of 45 , 60 and 75 % . significant differences in sv were found between pindolol and placebo only at the intensities of 60 and 75 % in the trained group . contrary to expectations , sv showed no indication of a plateau with propranolol in the trained subjects throughout the 4 different exercise intensities , whereas a plateau was established under placebo conditions by 45 % of vo2max in both trained and untrained subjects . these results suggest that both trained and untrained hypertensive persons can exercise with beta-adrenergic blockade at submaximal levels without compromised cardiac function . 
focal scleroderma and severe cardiomyopathy . patient report and brief review . a 21-month-old infant presented with simultaneous localized scleroderma and severe cardiomyopathy with heart failure . cardiac abnormalities and serological changes ( positive rheumatoid factor assay , elevated igm and igg levels , and elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate ) reverted to normal with prednisone therapy , and there was substantial , though incomplete , resolution of her skin changes during the same period . to our knowledge , this is the first patient with definite , clinically significant cardiac involvement associated with focal scleroderma . the possibility of internal organ involvement , including cardiac involvement , must be considered with focal scleroderma as well as with progressive systemic sclerosis . 
hypertension , endothelium , and cardiovascular risk factors . the functions of the endothelium and the effects of hypertension , atherosclerosis , and diabetes on the endothelium are reviewed . the endothelium affects vascular tone by releasing vasodilators and modulating the effects of vasoactive substances such as catecholamines , bradykinin , serotonin , and angiotensin ii . relaxation of vascular smooth muscle depends upon a functionally intact endothelium and the release of the endothelium-derived relaxing factor nitric oxide . endothelial cells also appear to release a hyperpolarizing factor that relaxes smooth muscle through activation of the sodium-potassium pump , and of the endothelium-dependent contracting factors . similarities are found in the vascular injury resulting from hypertension , atherosclerosis , and diabetes . when these risk factors coexist , they can act synergistically and magnify the vascular injury . the endothelium appears to be one of the major targets for these forms of injury . future therapeutic strategies will focus on ways to prevent , arrest , or reverse endothelial injury . 
cardiovascular risk reduction : the role of antihypertensive treatment . the effects of antihypertensive drugs on mortality from stroke , coronary artery disease ( cad ) , and nonvascular causes have been studied in 14 trials involving more than 37,000 patients . in the treated patients , blood pressure was 5 to 6 mm hg lower than that in placebo-treated patients , and whereas mortality from stroke was reduced by 42 % , cad mortality was reduced by only 14 % . a major reason for this lack of effect on cad mortality is apparently the adverse effects of the primary drugs used in these trials ( diuretics and beta blockers ) on glucose tolerance , lipid levels , and insulin resistance . the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors favorably influence many cad risk factors , and their use can be expected to reduce cad mortality in patients treated for hypertension . 
management of hypertension and cardiovascular risk . blood pressure reduction in hypertensive patients is a surrogate for the real therapeutic goal of reducing the risks consequent to hypertension . this surrogate is convenient but its use may have important therapeutic implications . results of treatment with new antihypertensive agents , data from clinical trials , and insights into underlying mechanisms are reviewed . the overall success of antihypertensive therapy has been undeniable , but has reduced minimally the frequency of atherosclerosis and coronary events ; metabolic disarray resulting from the agents used , especially thiazides and beta blockers , may have contributed to this . electrolyte abnormalities predispose to malignant arrhythmias and sudden death during myocardial infarction . left ventricular hypertrophy , a chief risk factor for coronary events , arrhythmias , and heart failure , responds selectively to antihypertensive agents . similarly , progression of renal injury may be sensitive to the agents used . obesity and hypertension frequently coexist . evidence is growing that atherogenic abnormalities common in obese patients , such as insulin resistance , also occur in the nonobese patient and are sensitive to the antihypertensive agent selected . 
the national cholesterol education program : guidelines , status , and issues . the 1987 report of the adult treatment panel ( atp ) of the national cholesterol education program ( ncep ) was concerned with who should be treated for high blood cholesterol levels and how they should be treated . total cholesterol levels were classified for identification of cases . low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were classified for decisions about treatment . the atp guidelines emphasize diet as the primary approach to treating patients with high blood cholesterol levels . the recommendations of the report are being widely publicized through physician and patient educational programs and the mass media . the report of the population panel of the ncep provides recommendations and guidelines for the public health approach to the problem of high cholesterol levels . when the recommendations of both reports are fully implemented , it is expected that substantial reductions in the incidence of coronary heart disease will be achieved . 
the tangled web of coronary risk factors . although epidemiologic , genetic , and pathophysiologic studies have shown that low-density lipoproteins ( ldls ) are involved in the development of coronary artery disease , the standard measurement of ldl cholesterol comprises a number of separate components that may contribute in different ways to the disease process . some of these components appear to be of particular pathologic importance . intermediate-density lipoproteins ( idls ) and lipoprotein ( a ) are highly atherogenic species that each normally account for up to 10 % to 15 % total ldl cholesterol but may be disproportionately elevated in pathologic states and may therefore contribute disproportionately to coronary disease risk in certain patients . recently , another subclass of ldl , characterized by relatively small particle size and increased density , also has been found to be associated with relatively increased risk of coronary disease . furthermore , levels of this subclass , designated ldl-iii , are linked to a number of interrelated hormonal and metabolic factors , each of which have also been associated with risk of coronary artery disease . these include male gender , postmenopause , abdominal adiposity , elevated triglyceride levels , increased levels of apolipoprotein b , and reductions in high-density lipoproteins ( hdls ) , particularly in the hdl2 subclass . other studies have demonstrated that many of these factors are also commonly associated with relative insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia . thus , a lipoprotein profile characterized by a relative increase in ldl-iii and a reduction in hdl2 is indicative of a constellation of metabolic features that defines a high-risk state and that makes it extremely difficult to single out one or more factors that are most directly involved in the disease process . combinations of genetic and environmental factors acting on this " tangled web " of risk factors may account for much of the variation in coronary disease susceptibility found in the general population . 
regression of atherosclerosis : what does it mean ? angiographic evidence of coronary artery atherosclerosis regression has been demonstrated in controlled clinical trials . the significance of this regression appears to depend in a complex way on the degree of atherosclerosis present when a regression regimen is initiated . angiographic trials indicate that lesion change is a continuum , with a gradual transition from progression to stability and regression . divergent lesion change can be seen in the same patient with a progression of some lesions and a regression of others . this makes it necessary to perform a comprehensive survey of all visible coronary segments when evaluating angiograms to determine the outcome of a clinical trial . an important finding in clinical trials is that new lesion formation can be reduced . this indicates that effective control of atherosclerosis may be possible with procedures now available , but noninvasive coronary artery imaging methods need to be refined . 
evolving natural history of coronary artery disease in diabetes mellitus . white diabetic patients are at high risk of developing coronary artery disease ( cad ) . the natural history of cad in insulin-dependent ( id ) and noninsulin-dependent ( nid ) diabetes mellitus ( dm ) is reviewed to gain insight into the mechanisms responsible for the development of premature or accelerated atherosclerosis in diabetic patients . in both iddm and niddm , the risk of cad increases with lengthening duration of diabetes ; the risk , however , does not grow as a constant multiple of the nondiabetic risk of cad , suggesting that the cumulative exposure to diabetes plays a significant role as a risk factor for cad only in a subset of patients . this is consistent with the hypothesis that the diabetic milieu has an impact on the progression of atherosclerotic lesions but not on their initiation . this hypothesis is corroborated further by the observation that cad does not occur in diabetic patients in populations with a low risk of cad among nondiabetic patients . the component of the diabetic milieu responsible for promotion of atherosclerotic lesions is unknown . there is evidence , however , of a direct or indirect role of hyperinsulinemia in this process . 
insulin as a mitogenic factor : role in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease . evidence has been accumulating that insulin has actions that may promote the development of atherosclerosis . research has involved three broad areas : actions of insulin on cultured arterial cells , the effect of insulin on isolated artery preparations , and the development of lipid-containing lesions in the arteries of experimental animals . insulin , in concentrations similar to those found in physiologic conditions , stimulates proliferation of cultured arterial smooth muscle cells from a number of species , including humans . insulin also stimulates migration of smooth muscle cells . cholesterol synthesis and low-density lipoprotein interaction with its receptor in smooth muscle cells are stimulated by insulin . insulin 's mitogenic action appears to be mediated by the insulin-like growth factor receptor . endothelial cells cultured from large vessels are resistant to the actions of insulin , but hyperglycemia inhibits their proliferation . insulin deficiency protects animals from experimental atherosclerosis ; this protection is lost with insulin treatment . insulin administration results in lipid-containing lesions in chickens and rats fed a normal diet , and in increased lipid synthesis in the arteries of pigs and dogs . isolated artery preparations from insulin-deficient or insulin-treated animals undergo lipid metabolism at a rate that correlates with the insulin concentrations in the donor animals . the biological actions of insulin ( and glucose ) on arterial tissue suggest that hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia may promote the development of atherosclerosis . 
insulin resistance , hyperinsulinemia , and hypertriglyceridemia in the etiology and clinical course of hypertension . patients with untreated hypertension have been shown to be resistant to insulin-stimulated glucose uptake and are more hyperinsulinemic and hypertriglyceridemic than matched groups of patients with normal blood pressure . in addition , insulin resistance , hyperinsulinemia , and hypertriglyceridemia have been demonstrated in spontaneous hypertensive rats and in sprague-dawley rats fed a fructose-enriched diet . the defect in insulin-stimulated glucose uptake in these experimental models can also be shown at the cellular level . experimental interventions that prevent insulin resistance or hyperinsulinemia from developing in fructose-fed rats also greatly attenuate the increase in blood pressure . since endogenous hyperinsulinemia and hypertriglyceridemia have been identified as factors that increase the risk of coronary artery disease ( cad ) , it is likely that they contribute to the increased prevalence of cad in hypertensive patients . antihypertensive treatment may have exacerbated these metabolic abnormalities , which could help explain why it has been difficult to show that lowering blood pressure decreases the risk of cad . these observations raise the possibility that abnormalities of carbohydrate and lipoprotein metabolism may play a role in both the etiology and clinical course of hypertension . 
diabetic nephropathy : can the natural history be modified ? those diabetic patients who progress to advanced kidney disease constitute a subpopulation that is particularly vulnerable to the angiotoxic effects of the insulin-dependent disorder . until the predisposing factors are identified , the most effective way to arrest renal deterioration is by controlling those currently recognized risk factors that accelerate the glomerulopathy . treatments that normalize blood pressure , reduce dietary protein intake , and control hyperglycemia have been shown to retard the progression of diabetic nephropathy . 
new horizons in the treatment of coronary artery thrombosis . the application of recombinant dna methodology to clinical medicine offers the clinician a new generation of more potent and specific therapies . recombinant methods offer great promise in the treatment of coronary artery thrombosis . this review focuses on the characterization of 1 ) molecules that activate plasminogen locally ( in the vicinity of a thrombus ) rather than systemically , and 2 ) molecules that offer new approaches to the inhibition of platelet activation and thrombin activity . we first describe the methods used to uncover these molecules and their characterization at the molecular level . the ways in which this knowledge can lead to the development of agents tailored to clinical needs are then explored . 
influence of desflurane on regional distribution of coronary blood flow in a chronically instrumented canine model of multivessel coronary artery obstruction . the influence of desflurane on myocardial perfusion measured by a microsphere technique during a total occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery and concomitant moderate or severe stenosis of the left circumflex coronary artery was evaluated in chronically instrumented dogs . hemodynamics , regional contractile function , and myocardial blood flow were measured during the conscious state and after anesthesia with desflurane ( 8.2 % -9.2 % and 12.5 % -12.7 % ) with and without control of arterial pressure . total left anterior descending occlusion produced in combination with a left circumflex coronary artery stenosis significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) increased heart rate and left ventricular end diastolic pressure in the absence of desflurane anesthesia . desflurane , administered only in the presence of left anterior descending occlusion and left circumflex stenosis , significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) decreased mean arterial pressure , left ventricular systolic pressure , and left ventricular positive dp/dt50 without change in heart rate . blood flow to the subendocardium of normal myocardium was reduced during the high concentration of desflurane ( p less than 0.05 ) , but perfusion of the subepicardium and midmyocardium was maintained at conscious levels . when the left circumflex stenosis was of moderate severity , only blood flow to the subendocardium distal to the stenosis was reduced by desflurane ( p less than 0.05 ) . in the presence of a severe stenosis , perfusion was decreased in the subepicardium , midmyocardium , and subendocardium of the stenotic zone ( p less than 0.05 ) . during the reduction in arterial pressure produced by desflurane , collateral blood flow in the left anterior descending region was reduced in dogs with either a moderate or severe left circumflex stenosis ( p less than 0.05 ) . when arterial pressure and heart rate conditions observed in the postocclusion conscious state were restored during the high concentration of desflurane , myocardial blood flow in all regions returned to those levels present in the conscious state ( p less than 0.05 ) . ratios of flow between occluded and normal zones were decreased when hypotension produced by desflurane was uncontrolled , but when arterial pressure and heart rate were adjusted to conscious postocclusion levels using partial thoracic aorta occlusion and atrial pacing , the ratio remained at conscious control levels regardless of the degree of left circumflex stenosis severity ( p less than 0.05 ) . results of this investigation indicate that desflurane does not redistribute blood flow away from collateral-dependent myocardium to other regions via a " coronary steal " mechanism in a chronically instrumented canine model of multivessel coronary artery disease . 
intestinal permeability in patients with chronic urticaria-angioedema with and without arthralgia . we evaluated the clinical response to oligoallergenic dietary treatment and the intestinal absorption of a protein antigen , cow milk beta-lactoglobulin ( blg ) in 24 patients with chronic urticaria/angioedema syndrome 13 of whom also suffered from joint symptoms . sixteen patients ( 77 % of those with arthralgia ) responded to diet ( rd ) with marked reduction of symptoms ; the others did not respond ( nr ) . ten ( all but one rd with arthralgia ) had increased permeability to blg after oral administration of cow milk . four with high titers of igg to blg showed the highest absorption of blg and the groups with arthralgia showed higher blg levels than those without arthralgia . in all cases , specific ige to cow milk was absent . these data suggest that the symptoms of a subgroup of patients with chronic urticaria , and especially patients with joint complaints that subside with diet , are related to excess intestinal permeability . the measurement of gut permeability to food proteins may be useful to define those who may benefit from dietary restriction . 
narrow qrs ventricular tachycardia . objective : to determine the frequency and clinical characteristics of narrow qrs ventricular tachycardia ( qrs duration less than or equal to 0.11 seconds ) . design : consecutive survey of patients with ventricular tachycardia . setting : tertiary , referral-based arrhythmia service at a university medical center . patients : sequential sample of patients with inducible ventricular tachycardia who had a 12-lead electrocardiogram of the tachycardia available for review . measurements and main results : of 106 patients with ventricular tachycardia , 5 ( 4.7 % ; 95 % ci , 2.1 % to 10.6 % ) had ventricular tachycardia with a qrs duration less than or equal to 0.11 seconds . three of the five patients were previously incorrectly diagnosed as having supraventricular tachycardia . all five patients had at least two electrocardiographic findings other than qrs duration to suggest ventricular tachycardia . conclusions : narrow qrs ventricular tachycardia should be considered in the differential diagnosis of narrow qrs tachycardias . electrocardiographic findings other than qrs duration are usually present to suggest the diagnosis . 
increased plasma endothelin-1 in pulmonary hypertension : marker or mediator of disease ? objective : to explore the role of endothelin-1 , a potent endothelial-derived vasoconstrictor peptide , in pulmonary hypertension , by measuring its concentration in arterial and venous plasma . design : a survey , case series study . setting : university-affiliated hospitals and outpatient clinics . patients : twenty-seven patients with pulmonary hypertension : 7 with primary , and 20 with secondary pulmonary hypertension of various causes . the control groups ( n = 16 ) comprised 8 healthy volunteers and 8 patients with coronary artery disease but without evidence of pulmonary hypertension . measurements and main results : pulmonary artery pressure was markedly increased ( 94/43 + / - 23/13 mm hg ) in the patients with pulmonary hypertension . venous plasma immunoreactive endothelin-1 , measured by a specific radioimmunoassay , was significantly higher in patients with pulmonary hypertension ( 3.5 + / - 2.5 pg/ml , p less than 0.001 ) than in normal subjects ( 1.45 + / - 0.45 pg/ml ) , or patients with coronary disease ( 0.75 + / - 0.64 pg/ml ) . the arterial-to-venous ratio of immunoreactive endothelin-1 was significantly greater than unity in primary pulmonary hypertension ( 2.21 + / - 0.72 , p = 0.01 ) , whereas the patients with secondary pulmonary hypertension had a mean ratio not different from 1 ( 0.97 + / - 0.42 ) . in contrast , the mean arterial-to-venous ratios were significantly less than unity in both control groups ( 0.59 + / - 0.35 , and 0.54 + / - 0.64 ; p less than 0.02 , for normal subjects and coronary disease patients , respectively ) , indicating a possible clearance of endothelin-1 across the healthy lung . conclusions : patient with pulmonary hypertension have substantial alterations in plasma immunoreactive endothelin-1 , which may reflect changes in net release or clearance of endothelin-1 by the lung . in patients with primary pulmonary hypertension , the high levels in arterial compared with venous plasma suggest pulmonary production of endothelin-1 , which may contribute to elevated pulmonary vascular resistance . 
lyme disease : recommendations for diagnosis and treatment the incidence and the endemic range of lyme disease in the united states have increased steadily since the disease was originally recognized in lyme , connecticut , in 1975 . because of the varied clinical manifestations of this illness and the use of unstandardized serologic testing methods , diagnosis is often uncertain and treatment outcomes are often difficult to evaluate . the antibiotic regimens that are commonly used in clinical practice have changed rapidly . they show much regional variation with little critical comparison of treatment results . the clinical diagnosis and the literature on the treatment of the various stages of lyme disease are reviewed . the reported data are supplemented with recommendations based on 15 years of clinical experience with this illness . 
cardiac echinococcosis with fatal intracerebral embolism . a previously well 7 year old boy presented with sudden loss of consciousness and fitting . no evidence of trauma or space occupying lesion was identified . death occurred the next day due to cerebral infarction caused by embolised fragments from a ruptured left ventricular hydatid cyst that was found at necropsy . 
temporal arteritis with normal erythrocyte sedimentation rates presenting as occipital neuralgia . a retrospective review of 46 patients with biopsy-proven giant cell ( temporal ) arteritis revealed 8 ( 17 % ) whose initial presentation was occipital pain . the most likely etiology of occipital pain in these patients was occipital artery inflammation . a westergren erythrocyte sedimentation rate less than 40 mm/hour was noted at presentation in 6 of these 8 patients . giant cell arteritis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of elderly patients who present with occipital pain and demonstrate a normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate . 
wegener 's granulomatosis presenting as temporal arteritis . a granulomatous giant cell vasculitis of the temporal artery was observed in a biopsy specimen from a patient with corresponding clinical symptoms . within weeks , the new onset of pulmonary infiltrates and renal failure prompted biopsy of the patient 's kidney . a necrotizing glomerulonephritis , compatible with a diagnosis of wegener 's granulomatosis , was present . vasculitis of the temporal artery may be a feature of wegener 's granulomatosis . 
fatal pulmonary venoocclusive disease secondary to a generalized venulopathy : a new syndrome presenting with facial swelling and pericardial tamponade . we describe a patient who developed fatal pulmonary artery hypertension secondary to diffuse venulitis . this otherwise healthy young woman first presented with generalized venulopathy , with chemosis , facial swelling , pleural effusions , and pericardial tamponade . the symptoms partially responded to steroid therapy , but over a 2-year course , a rapidly progressive and fatal venoocclusive disease developed . no other primary condition was diagnosed , and at autopsy , the patient had striking venulitis throughout , including the pulmonary bed . we believe that this is a unique case of pulmonary hypertension resulting from a generalized venulopathy . 
evaluation of drug therapy for treatment of hypertensive urgencies in the emergency department . oral nifedipine ( n ) and clonidine ( c ) are often used in the treatment of hypertensive urgencies ; however , until recently , there were no comparative studies using the same patient population . the authors reviewed the records of hypertensive patients treated in the emergency department between october 1 , 1987 and september 30 , 1988 . selected patients had a diastolic blood pressure ( dbp ) of greater than 115 mm hg without evidence of acute end organ damage . patients were stratified into three treatment groups : n , c , and group 3 ( g3 ) . g3 received a variety of drug therapies but not exclusively n or c. systolic blood pressure ( sbp ) , dbp , mean arterial pressure ( map ) , percent decrease in map ( % map ) , time to lower blood pressure , admissions , and discharges were evaluated . efficacy and safety were defined as reaching a dbp less than 110 mm hg but % map of no greater than either 25 % or 40 % , respectively . thirty-five n , 32 c , and 27 g3 patients were identified with no statistical difference between groups in race , gender , pretreatment sbp , dbp , or map . n , c , and g3 significantly reduced sbp , dbp , and map ( p less than .01 ) . comparing n , c , and g3 , no differences were observed in % map , admissions , discharges , efficacy , or safety . time required to decrease blood pressure differed between all three groups ( 44 + / - 32 n v 77 + / - 57 c v 152 + / - 94 min g3 ) ( p less than .05 ) . these results indicate that n , c , and a variety of drug therapies are equally effective and safe in the treatment of hypertensive urgencies . 
risk monitoring of randomized trials in emergency medicine : experience of the brain resuscitation clinical trial ii . risk monitoring for the brain resuscitation clinical trial ii , a multicenter , placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy of the calcium-entry blocker lidoflazine in the amelioration of brain damage in comatose cardiac-arrest survivors , posed unexpected challenges . concern arose when monitoring of adverse reactions showed an excess of dangerous cardiac arrhythmias , including rearrest , in the lidoflazine group . to ascertain the cause of this problem and determine whether it was ethical for the trial to continue , an in-depth review of data was conducted , outside experts were consulted , and additional data were collected . these efforts suggested possible causes for the problem . existing drug administration protocols for blood pressure control were reinforced , resulting in lower subsequent arrhythmia rates . thus , through an efficient monitoring system , an important problem was uncovered and resolved , allowing the trial to be completed without major changes . 
early diagnosis and survival of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms . the hospital records of patients treated with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm in a recent 5-year period were reviewed to collect data on factors which may be associated with mortality . overall mortality was 62 % . patients with intraperitoneal rupture had a higher mortality ( 97 % ) than patients with retroperitoneal rupture ( 25 % ) . patients at increased risk were older than 80 years , presented with syncope , experienced a short duration of symptoms prior to emergency department ( ed ) arrival , had initial systolic blood pressure less than 90 mm hg , and/or initial hemoglobin level less than eight on arrival at the ed and delay in beginning surgery . multivariate analysis demonstrated preoperative blood pressure , preoperative hemoglobin , presence of syncope , and the amount of blood transfused were largely reflections of the type of rupture and had only slight independent relationship to mortality . the authors concluded that treating emergency physicians and surgeons have little control over the most important risk factors for mortality after aneurysm rupture , but may improve the prognosis by expediting diagnosis in the ed and surgical therapy . 
oral labetalol in hypertensive urgencies . the response to incremental doses of oral labetalol in 16 patients with hypertensive urgencies is presented . after inadequate blood pressure control with 20 mg of intravenous furosemide , each patient received a 300 mg oral dose of labetalol . subsequent oral doses of labetalol , 100 mg , were administered at 2-hour intervals , if the diastolic blood pressure remained greater than 100 mm hg . the maximum dose of labetalol per patient was 500 mg . five patients required only the initial 300 mg dose of labetalol . two patients required further therapy for satisfactory blood pressure control . mean arterial pressure fell from 156 + / - 12 mm hg to 123 + / - 14 mm hg . 
experience with esmolol for the treatment of cocaine-associated cardiovascular complications . the authors report their experience using esmolol , an ultra-short acting beta-adrenergic antagonist , for the treatment of seven patients with cocaine-associated cardiovascular complications . no consistent hemodynamic benefit was found with the use of this drug . although there was a decline in mean heart rate of 23 % ( range 0 % to 35 % ) , they were unable to show a consistent antihypertensive response . adverse effects occurred in three patients . this included one patient with a marked exacerbation of hypertension and one who became hypotensive . another patient developed emesis and lethargy during esmolol therapy and required endotracheal intubation . they do not recommend the routine use of esmolol for cocaine cardiotoxicity . 
high resolution real-time ultrasound for the diagnosis of venous thrombosis in the rehabilitation setting . accurate , noninvasive testing for deep venous thrombosis ( dvt ) by conventional methods is often not possible in the rehabilitation patient . lower extremity amputation , a cast or bandage , or skin problems present obstacles to standard diagnostic methods . this report describes the use of duplex ultrasound ( us ) scanning for noninvasive diagnosis of dvt in a seventy-year-old man with a below-knee amputation , on whom doppler and plethysmography examinations could not be performed . as experience is gained with this technique , the use of venography for diagnosis of dvt becomes more difficult to rationalize . 
retinal arterial macroaneurysms : risk factors and natural history . a case control study was conducted to identify the systemic and ocular risk factors for retinal arterial macroaneurysms . forty-three patients with 52 photographically confirmed macroaneurysms were located . forty-three age-matched , race-matched concurrent control patients were also identified . the patients with macroaneurysms had decreased visual acuity ( p less than 0.0001 ) and a higher prevalence of hypertension ( p = 0.037 ) , female sex ( p = 0.099 ) , and retinal vein occlusions ( p = 0.055 ) than controls . in patients with both a macroaneurysm and venous occlusion there was a 12.0 times higher prevalence of macroaneurysms in the area of retina drained by the occluded vein ( p less than 0.05 ) . common findings associated with macroaneurysms included retinal haemorrhage ( 81 % of patients ) , retinal exudate ( 70 % ) , vitreous haemorrhage ( 30 % ) , macular involvement ( 30 % ) , and distal arteriolar narrowing ( 26 % ) . arteriolar occlusion occurred spontaneously ( 8 % ) or after laser photocoagulation ( 16 % ) . 
hirudin interruption of heparin-resistant arterial thrombus formation in baboons . to determine the role of thrombin in high blood flow , platelet-dependent thrombotic and hemostatic processes we measured the relative antithrombotic and antihemostatic effects in baboons of hirudin , a highly potent and specific antithrombin , and compared the effects of heparin , an antithrombin iii-dependent inhibitor of thrombin . thrombus formation was determined in vivo using three relevant models ( homologous endarterectomized aorta , collagen-coated tubing , and dacron vascular graft ) by measuring : ( 1 ) platelet deposition , using gamma camera imaging of 111in-platelets ; ( 2 ) fibrin deposition , as assessed by the incorporation of circulating 125i-fibrinogen ; and ( 3 ) occlusion . the continuous intravenous infusion of 1 , 5 , and 20 nmol/kg per minute of recombinant hirudin ( desulfatohirudin ) maintained constant plasma levels of 0.16 + / - 0.03 , 0.79 + / - 0.44 , and 3.3 + / - 0.77 mumol/ml , respectively . hirudin interrupted platelet and fibrin deposition in a dose-dependent manner that was profound at the highest dose for all three thrombogenic surfaces and significant at the lowest dose for thrombus formation on endarterectomized aorta . thrombotic occlusion was prevented by all doses studied . in contrast , heparin did not inhibit either platelet or fibrin deposition when administered at a dose that maximally prolonged clotting times ( 100 u/kg ) ( p greater than .1 ) , and only intermediate effects were produced at 10-fold that dose ( 1,000 u/kg ) . moreover , heparin did not prevent occlusion of the test segments . hirudin inhibited platelet hemostatic function in concert with its antithrombotic effects ( bleeding times were prolonged by the intermediate and higher doses ) . by comparison , intravenous heparin failed to affect the bleeding time at the 100 u/kg dose ( p greater than .5 ) , and only minimally prolonged the bleeding time at the 1,000 u/kg dose ( p less than .05 ) . we conclude that platelet-dependent thrombotic and hemostatic processes are thrombin-mediated and that the biologic antithrombin hirudin produces a potent , dose-dependent inhibition of arterial thrombus formation that greatly exceeds the minimal antithrombotic effects produced by heparin . 
serum sialic acid concentration and cardiovascular mortality objective -- to determine whether serum sialic acid concentration may be used to predict short and long term cardiovascular mortality . design -- prospective study on all men and women who had their serum sialic acid concentration measured as part of a general health survey in 1964 or in 1965 . all were followed up for an average of 20.5 years . setting -- geographical part of the county of varmland , sweden . subjects -- residents in the area participating in a health check up in 1964-5 ( 27,065 men and 28,037 women ) , of whom 372 men ( 169 with incomplete data and 203 lost to follow up ) and 345 women ( 143 and 202 respectively ) were excluded ; thus 26,693 men and 27,692 women entered the study . the study sample was restricted to subjects aged 40-74 during any of the 20 years ' follow up . main outcome measures -- serum sialic acid concentration , serum cholesterol concentration , diastolic blood pressure , body mass index at the general health survey visit ; cardiovascular and non-cardiovascular deaths during three periods of follow up ( 0-6 years , 7-13 years , and 14-20 years ) , according to the swedish mortality register , in subjects aged 45-74 . results -- mean serum sialic acid concentration ( mg/100 ml ) was 68.8 ( sd 8.0 ) for men and 69.2 ( 8.0 ) for women ; the average concentration increasing with age in both sexes . a total of 5639 ( 21 % ) men and 3307 ( 12 % ) women died during the follow up period , in whom death in 3052 ( 54 % ) men and 1368 ( 41 % ) women was from cardiovascular causes . during short ( 0-6 years ) , medium ( 7-13 years ) , and long ( 14-20 years ) term follow up the relative risk of death from cardiovascular disease increased with increasing serum sialic acid concentration . the relative risk ( 95 % confidence interval ) associated with the highest quartile of sialic acid concentration compared with the lowest quartile was 2.38 ( 2.01 to 2.83 ) in men and 2.62 ( 1.93 to 3.57 ) in women . similar results were found for deaths from non-cardiovascular disease with relative risks of 1.50 ( 1.34 to 2.68 ) in men and 1.89 ( 1.57 to 2.28 ) in women , but these relative risks were significantly lower than those for deaths from cardiovascular disease ( p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.005 respectively ) . in multivariate analysis of total mortality and of cardiovascular mortality with sialic acid concentration , serum cholesterol concentration , diastolic blood pressure , and body mass index as independent variables the impact of sialic acid concentration was virtually the same as in univariate analysis . conclusion -- serum sialic acid concentration is a strong predictor of cardiovascular mortality . a possible explanation of these findings is that the serum sialic acid concentration may reflect the existence or the activity of an atherosclerotic process , and this may warrant further investigation . 
salvage of branch vessels during bifurcation lesion angioplasty : acute and long-term follow-up . to evaluate angiographic success , frequency of branch vessel loss and salvage , and long-term outcome , we studied the early and late outcomes of 56 consecutive patients who underwent ptca of bifurcation lesions , which involved the left anterior descending or left circumflex coronary artery , with stenoses greater than 70 % in both the parent and an involved branch vessel . in 35 patients ( 63 % ) , the ptca strategy was attempted dilation of both the main vessel and the involved branch vessels using predominantly a double-wire , sequential balloon technique ; in 21 ( 27 % ) the ptca attempt was confined to the main vessel alone . transient angiographic occlusion of the branch vessel occurred in 32 % of patients in whom dilation of both vessels was attempted , and in 38 % in whom the main vessel alone was dilated ( p = ns ) ; 91 % of the occluded branch vessels were the salvaged when sequential angioplasty of both vessels had been initially planned , compared to only 38 % when the initial strategy had been dilation of the main vessel alone ( p less than .05 ) . predischarge exercise testing showed residual ischemia in 6 % of patients who had both vessels successfully dilated , versus 37 % in those in whom dilatation was confined to the main vessels ( p less than .01 ) . clinical restenosis , defined as late ( greater than 6 weeks ) recurrence of angina or a positive exercise test , occurred in 42 % of patients who had both vessels successfully dilated . thus although bifurcation lesion angioplasty frequently results in transient branch vessel loss , these branches can usually be salvaged using a double-wire technique but tend to have a higher late restenosis than conventional single vessel ptca . 
comparison of exercise performance in left main and three-vessel coronary artery disease . from a consecutive series of patients who underwent rest and exercise radionuclide angiography over several years , we retrospectively identified 34 patients with left main coronary artery disease and 103 patients with three-vessel coronary artery disease who did not have significant left main disease . the results of gated equilibrium radionuclide angiography were compared in these 2 groups . multiple exercise hemodynamic , exercise electrocardiographic , and exercise radionuclide angiographic parameters were considered in an attempt to separate the 2 groups . the only parameter that was significantly different between the 2 groups was exercise heart rate . however , no value of the exercise heart rate could meaningfully separate the 2 groups . despite their known difference in prognosis , patients with left main and three-vessel disease had very similar exercise performance and could not be distinguished from one another by exercise electrocardiography or exercise radionuclide angiography . the inability to distinguish these two groups is a clear limitation of noninvasive exercise modalities . 
atrial septal occlusion improves the accuracy of mitral valve area determination following percutaneous mitral balloon valvotomy . we investigated the impact of the atrial communication on the mitral valve area calculation after percutaneous mitral balloon valvotomy in 17 patients ( 15 women , 2 men ; mean age 56 + / - 4 years ) . the hemodynamic measurements and mitral valve area calculations were performed with and without balloon occlusion of the atrial septal puncture site . the mitral valve area determined with balloon occlusion was significantly smaller than the mitral valve area determined without occlusion ( 1.6 + / - 0.1 vs. 1.9 + / - 0.1 cm2 , p less than 0.01 ) , and was similar to the echocardiographically determined valve area ( 1.6 + / - 0.1 cm2 ) . this decrease in the calculated mitral valve area with occlusion was associated with a decrease in the measured cardiac output , without a change in the mitral valve gradient or the diastolic filling period . occlusion of the atrial septal puncture site may permit more accurate determination of the mitral valve area and thus provide a better reference point for future comparison should the question or restenosis arise . 
coronary angioplasty following cardiac transplantation : a case report and review of the literature . a 23-year-old man underwent successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of a severe stenosis of the left anterior descending artery 25 months after orthotopic heart transplantation . four months later restenosis of the same lesion was treated by repeat ptca . angiography 11 months later showed no restenosis . in selected cases , ptca may be useful in treating allograft coronary disease . 
preservation of regional myocardial function during coronary angioplasty with an autoperfusion balloon catheter : a case report . echocardiographic assessment of regional myocardial function was performed during standard balloon coronary angioplasty followed by autoperfusion balloon angioplasty of a proximal left anterior descending artery stenosis . septal and apical akinesis occurred within 60 seconds of standard balloon inflation , but regional function was well preserved during prolonged autoperfusion balloon inflation . 
successful mitral valvuloplasty using the inoue balloon in a patient with mitral stenosis associated with subvalvular fibrosis and reduced left ventricular inflow cavity : a case report . percutaneous transvenous mitral valvuloplasty ( ptmv ) was performed with two cylindric pigtail balloon catheters in a 52-year-old woman with symptomatic mitral stenosis . the subvalvular apparatus was fibrous with welded chordae and the subvalvular left ventricular space was markedly reduced . as a result of this distorted anatomy , during the inflations , the two balloons constantly slipped back into the left atrium before full inflation was obtained . after the procedure , the mitral valve area ( mva ) , as estimated by echo-doppler ( ed ) , increased from 1.00 to 1.34 cm2 . after 2 months of mild clinical improvement , the patient again became symptomatic and ed examination showed a mva of 1.25 cm2 . a second ptmv was performed with an inoue balloon , the entire procedure taking less than 1 hour . a stable position of the inoue balloon and complete dilatation were achieved . ed examination showed a mitral valve area of 2.30 cm2 . there was no mitral regurgitation nor atrial septal defect . after 3 months , she has only n.y.h.a. class i symptoms and mva , as estimated by ed , was 2.40 cm2 . 
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of anomalous right coronary artery . coronary angioplasty of tortuous anomalous coronary arteries can be technically challenging . we describe a successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) of an anomalous right coronary artery after a failed previous attempt . the anatomic limitations of anomalous right coronary arteries and technical considerations for ptca are discussed . 
takayasu 's disease with axillary , right coronary artery , and right internal mammary stenosis treated with angioplasty . a 47-year-old woman presented with progressive angina and failed medical therapy . after an unsuccessful attempt at angioplasty of a totally occluded right coronary artery , coronary artery bypass using the right internal mammary artery was performed . she presented 2 years later with stenosis in the mammary graft , right coronary artery , and axillary artery . these lesions were all treated with angioplasty . 
rate-related left bundle branch block as a cause of non-ischemic chest pain . a case is presented of rate-dependent left bundle branch block associated with chest pain in a patient with angiographically normal coronary arteries . lactate extraction showed no evidence of myocardial ischemia . it appears that in this case , chest pain was associated with sudden ventricular asynergy rather than myocardial ischemia . 
percutaneous right brachial artery approach with 5f catheters for studying coronary artery disease . we prospectively studied 60 ischemic patients with 5f catheters ( pigtail and amplatz ) using the percutaneous right brachial artery approach ( group i ) , in order to compare this technique with two groups of 100 patients each randomly studied by the femoral route with either 5f ( group ii ) or 8f ( group iii ) catheters ( pigtail and judkins ) . the following parameters were analyzed : need to change the initially elected catheter diameter or/and artery approach ; technical difficulty for obtaining lv , lca , and rca angiograms ; total time of x-ray exposure ; quality image of lv , lca , and rca angiograms ; incidence of arterial puncture related hematomas or total arterial occlusion ; and duration of local compression after sheath removal . there were no differences between 5f brachial and femoral approaches except for the arterial compression time ( p less than 0.01 ) and the x-ray exposure time ( p = 0.03 ) which were longer with the brachial approach . whatever the route used , 5f showed a mild increase difficulty ( brachial p = 0.001 ; femoral p = 0.01 ) and a mild decreased quality image for lca ( branchial p = 0.006 ; femoral p less than 0.05 ) . mild hematomas were more frequent with 8f catheters ( p less than 0.05 ) . the procedure could be completed by the elected first artery and type of catheter ( 5f or 8f ) in 57/60 patients in group i , in 95/100 in group ii , and in 96/100 in group iii ( nonsignificant differences ) . thus , the percutaneous right brachial artery approach using 5f catheters is similar to the femoral artery approach with the same catheters . although both of them showed a mild increased technical difficulty and a mild decreased quality image compared to 8f , mainly for lca angiograms , they allowed complete and reliable angiograms reading and analysis . 
accuracy and reproducibility of quantitative coronary arteriography using 6 and 8 french catheters with cine angiographic acquisition . to determine the suitability of 6 french catheters for quantitative coronary arteriography , the relative accuracy and reproducibility of one type of these catheters was compared to that obtained with standard 8 french catheters in 20 stenoses . duplicate injections with polyurethane 6 french catheters were obtained using hand and power injection technique with cineangiographic acquisition ( four 6 french catheter injections total per stenosis ) . measurements of both percent diameter stenosis and absolute dimensions were compared to those obtained with hand injection and cine acquisition using 8 french catheters as a " gold standard . " while the reproducibility of dimension determination with the 6 french catheter was generally similar to that obtained with the 8 french catheter ( 0.27 + / - 0.23 mm for absolute diameter and 8.1 + / - 7.4 % for percent diameter stenosis ) , accuracy was significantly less for the 6 french catheter for measurement of absolute dimensions . thus , while apparently well suited for serial measurements of the same stenoses , 6 french catheters may not be as accurate in the determination of absolute artery dimensions as 8 french catheters . 
coronary balloon angioplasty through diagnostic 6 french catheters . we investigated the use of ultralow profile balloon catheters ( scimed ace , usci probe , cordis , orion ) for coronary angioplasty through 6 french diagnostic catheters ( schneider , cordis ) . contrast injection was assisted with a hercules pump ( cordis ) in all cases . during 21 procedures , angioplasty of 27 lesions in 20 selected patients was attempted ( 1.3 lesion/procedure ) . twelve lesions were in the right , 10 in the left anterior descending , and 5 in the left circumflex coronary artery . balloon size varied between 2.5 and 3.5 mm . twenty lesions could be successfully dilated ( 74 % ) through the 6 french catheter and 7 lesions required an exchange to a 7 french angioplasty guiding catheter . for 5 cases , another balloon was also necessary to complete the procedure . the final overall success rate was 100 % per patient and per lesion and there were no major complications . despite the small internal catheter lumen ( 1.22 mm ) coronary visualization was adequate , and mechanical support was good . failures of 6 french catheters were attributed to insufficient torque control and excessive friction when the balloon crossed the tapered end of the diagnostic catheter . coronary angioplasty through a diagnostic 6 french catheter is feasible and may represent a reasonable alternative for simple cases that are done during the same session as the diagnostic angiography . once available , 6 french high flow angioplasty guiding catheters without a tapered tip should improve success while retaining the advantage of a small femoral puncture site . 
preliminary experience with 5 and 6 french diagnostic catheters as guiding catheters for coronary angioplasty . with the reduction in profile of balloon dilation catheters , until recently , it has been the internal dimensions and performance of the guiding catheter that has mandated the use of 7 , 8 or 9 french ( f ) systems for the performance of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) . a new 5f catheter design ( sherwood medical co. , st. louis , mo ) provided a large inner lumen ( 0.4 " ) permitting use of 0.20-0 .22 " fixed-wire ptca balloon catheters with good coronary visualization . potential advantages include reduced coronary artery ostial trauma and catheter induced damping and enhanced patient comfort . we report our initial experience in 14 patients undergoing ptca with a 5 and 6f guide/fixed-wire system . mean age was 63 + / - 10 ( 43-78 years ) . ptca indications : cardiogenic shock ( 1 ) , post-myocardial infarction angina pectoris ( 2 ) , grade iii angina ( 5 ) and unstable angina pectoris ( 6 ) . vessel attempted : left anterior descending ( 3 ) , circumflex ( 4 ) , obtuse marginal ( 2 ) , diagonal ( 1 ) , right coronary artery ( 3 ) , and internal thoracic artery ( 1 ) . twelve patients had femoral approach ; two brachial approach . the usci probe ( usci division , billerica , ma ) was used in 8 lesions and scimed ace ( scimed life systems , maplegrove , mn ) catheter in 7 lesions . successful 5 or 6f guide/fixed-wire dilations reduced the stenosis ( 77 + / - 14 to 37 + / - 30 % ) and were successfully performed in 79 % ( 11/14 ) . one 5f patient required 8f guiding catheter and was dilated with 2.0 fixed-wire balloon . a second failed 5f ptca could not be dilated with any larger conventional system . a third total occlusion could not be crossed with a guidewire or fixed wire balloon . no patient had a complication . 
application of coronary angioplasty to the septal perforator arteries . significant coronary artery disease affecting the septal perforator arteries can cause anginal pain , rhythm disturbances , or septal infarction . however , since these vessels are usually inaccessible to coronary bypass surgery , there is a tendency among angiographers and angioplasters to overlook lesions of the septal perforator arteries . our experience suggests that if medical treatment is not sufficient to treat clinical manifestations resulting from septal perforator disease , then coronary angioplasty can be considered a therapeutic alternative for revascularization . we herein present 11 patients who underwent coronary angioplasty of a major septal artery and discuss angiographic and technical aspects of the procedure . 
radiation-associated valvular disease . the prevalence of radiation-associated cardiac disease is increasing due to prolonged survival following mediastinal irradiation . side effects of radiation include pericarditis , accelerated coronary artery disease , myocardial fibrosis and valvular injury . we evaluated the cases of three young patients with evidence of significant valvular disease following mediastinal irradiation . one patient underwent the first reported successful aortic and mitral valve replacement for radiation-associated valvular disease ( ravd ) as well as concurrent coronary artery revascularization . a review of the literature revealed 35 reported cases of ravd , with only one successful case of valve replacement that was limited to the aortic valve . asymptomatic ravd is diagnosed 11.5 years after mediastinal irradiation compared with 16.5 years for symptomatic patients , emphasizing that long-term follow-up is important for patients receiving mediastinal irradiation . this study defines a continuum of valvular disease following radiation that begins with mild asymptomatic valvular thickening and progresses to severe valvular fibrosis with hemodynamic compromise requiring surgical intervention . 
cardiotoxicity of interferon . a review of 44 cases . cardiovascular complications have occurred in clinical trials of interferon . we review herein experience to date of cardiotoxicity with all types of interferons in cancer patients . the most common presentations of cardiotoxicity were cardiac arrhythmia , dilated cardiomyopathy , and symptoms of ischemic heart disease , including myocardial infarction and sudden death . the cardiac effects were not related to the daily dose , cumulative total dose , or period of therapy . some of the patients in whom interferon has caused cardiovascular sequelae have had a history of coronary heart disease or have previously been given chemotherapy with drugs known to be cardiotoxic . in most of the patients , cardiac toxicity was reversible following the cessation of the drug therapy . 
lung beta-adrenoceptors in pulmonary hypertension . a study of biopsy specimens in children with congenital heart disease . characteristics of beta-adrenoceptors were analyzed using radioligand-binding techniques with 3h-dihydroalprenolol in lung specimens from 11 children with pulmonary hypertension ( median age , three years ) undergoing surgical repair of congenital heart defects and four pediatric control subjects ( median age , five years ) undergoing thoracotomy for removal of neoplasms or cysts . scatchard analysis of 3h-dha binding to lung membranes showed similar values of the dissociation constant in both groups ( kd = 0.72 + / - 0.22 nm in patients vs 1.22 + / - 0.22 nm in controls ; p = ns ) . the receptor density was significantly increased in patients in comparison with controls , with respective values of 164 + / - 19 and 95 + / - 13 fmol/mg of protein ( p less than 0.025 ) , and correlated directly with mean pulmonary arterial pressure ( r = 0.82 ; p less than 0.0005 ) . no significant relationship was observed between receptor number and pulmonary arterial medial thickness . thus , the increase in receptor density in these patients may be related to adaptative changes in cells other than vascular smooth muscle . 
systemic to pulmonary bronchial blood flow in mitral stenosis . we measured systemic to pulmonary bronchial blood flow [ qbr ( s-p ) ] during total cardiopulmonary bypass in 15 patients with mitral stenosis and elevated pulmonary venous pressure ( group a , mean pulmonary wedge pressure = 22.2 + / - 5.4 mm hg , mean + / - sd ) and in 15 patients with coronary artery diseases and normal pulmonary venous pressure ( group b ) . qbr ( s-p ) is the volume of blood accumulating in the left side of the heart in the absence of pulmonary and coronary flows . this blood was vented through a cannula introduced into the left atrium and measured . qbr ( s-p ) was 76.3 + / - 13.9 ml/min ( 2.18 + / - 0.37 percent of extracorporeal circulation pump flow ) and 22.3 + / - 2.1 ( 0.63 + / - 0.15 ) in group a and b , respectively ( p less than 0.01 ) . during total cardiopulmonary bypass , pulmonary venous pressure is approximately atmospheric pressure , and no differences in systemic blood pressure , extracorporeal circulation pump flow , and airways pressure were observed between group a and b. therefore , vascular resistance through the bronchial vessels draining into the pulmonary circulation is reduced in patients with mitral stenosis and elevated pulmonary venous pressure . 
catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation . incidence and clinical significance . the incidence and severity of catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation has not been studied extensively . given the frequency with which right heart catheters are employed to measure cardiac output , it is important to know whether the severity of catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation is sufficient to invalidate the measurement of thermodilution cardiac output . accordingly , the purpose of the present prospective study was to determine the incidence and severity of catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation in 25 men ( mean age , 58.1 + / - 1.4 years ) using doppler ultrasound . the tricuspid valve was interrogated from two orthogonal views using pulsed-wave and color flow doppler , either in the presence or absence of a 7-french catheter across the tricuspid valve . the severity of catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation was graded semiquantitatively using a validated scoring system . pulsed-wave doppler studies showed that the incidence of catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation was 48 percent , and that the average tricuspid regurgitation score increased from 0.41 + / - 0.16 to 0.61 + / - 0.17 ( p less than 0.01 ) . color flow doppler studies showed similar findings . further , the incidence of catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation was not related to the patient 's underlying hemodynamic status or right ventricular geometry . in conclusion , this study shows for the first time that the quantitative extent of catheter-induced tricuspid regurgitation is small , and is therefore unlikely to be important clinically , particularly with regard to the assessment of thermodilution cardiac output . 
right ventricular dysfunction in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . evaluation and management . cor pulmonale is an important consequence of copd . although the incidence is not precisely known , it is seen more frequently in patients with hypoxemia , co2 retention and severely reduced fev1 . when present , it limits peripheral oxygen delivery , increases shortness of breath , and reduces exercise endurance . it is also associated with higher mortality rates independent of other prognostic variables . numerous factors may contribute to the development of cor pulmonale in patients with copd , but its primary cause is chronic alveolar hypoxia resulting in pulmonary vasoconstriction , vascular remodeling and pulmonary hypertension . the physical exam , chest radiograph and ecg may be helpful in detecting the presence of cor pulmonale , but because of anatomic changes that occur in the chest , these tests are often insensitive in patients with copd . noninvasive diagnostic techniques utilizing doppler echocardiography and radionuclide angiography allow for detection of rv dysfunction at an earlier stage and in most cases , preclude the need for right heart catheterization . lto2 is the only therapy shown to improve survival in patients with copd . however , statistical proof correlating improvements in pulmonary hemodynamics with increased survival is lacking . bronchodilators , such as the beta 2 agonists and especially theophylline , may have beneficial effects on pulmonary hemodynamics in addition to their effect on respiratory function and are useful in copd when rv dysfunction is present . diuretics and phlebotomy are also useful in improving symptoms in appropriate patients . vasodilators such as calcium channel blockers and ace-inhibitors may improve pulmonary hemodynamics acutely , but may lower arterial po2 by worsening ventilation-perfusion matching or blunt the improvement in pulmonary hemodynamics seen with supplemental oxygen . the long-term benefits of these agents have not been proven and their routine use in patients with cor pulmonale due to copd can not be recommended . 
paradoxic air embolism in the absence of an intracardiac defect . a 58-year-old man experienced paradoxic air embolism with passage of air from the systemic venous to the systemic arterial circulation with subsequent stroke and death . no intracardiac shunt was present . pulmonary fibrosis concomitant with severe pulmonary arterial hypertension appears to have been responsible for the air traversing the pulmonary capillary bed . this unusual outcome of a complicated central venous catheterization must be borne in mind and guarded against in similar patients . 
left atrial bacterial mural endocarditis . an unusual case of staphylococcus aureus endocarditis confined to the mural left atrium is presented . echocardiographic studies revealed a 1.5 x 2.0-cm vegetation mimicking a myxoma situated in the path of a mitral regurgitant jet on a color doppler test . emboli to upper and lower extremities and brain complicated the patient 's preoperative course . surgical excision and pathologic examination confirmed this rare occurrence . 
pericarditis with tamponade due to cytomegalovirus in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . a 35-year-old male homosexual with aids presented with headache and fever and was found to have cryptococcal meningitis . during the patient 's hospital course , his hemodynamic status deteriorated as a result of pericardial tamponade . antemortem analysis of the fluid was unrevealing ; however , postmortem examination of the pericardium revealed typical intranuclear inclusions of cytomegalovirus infection . cytomegalovirus should be included in the differential diagnosis of pericardial effusion in patients with aids . 
spontaneous regression of cardiomyopathy in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . cardiac involvement is common in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) and , when symptomatic , it portends a poor prognosis . we present a case of marked spontaneous regression of cardiomyopathy in a patient with aids . to our knowledge , this is the first reported case of spontaneous recovery of ventricular function in an aids patient . 
coronary artery fistula formation secondary to permanent pacemaker placement . we present the findings in two patients who apparently developed a coronary artery fistula as a complication of an endocardial pacing electrode . this complication may actually be occurring more frequently than recognized because the patient may be asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic and therefore not undergo a coronary angiogram . awareness of this potentially serious complication is important and stresses the need for proper electrode placement without excess pressure on the tip . 
venous air embolism . diagnosis by spontaneous right-sided contrast echocardiography . this report describes the definitive diagnosis of venous air-embolism by documentation of spontaneous echo contrast in the right cardiac chambers following removal of a jugular venous catheter in a patient with hepatic failure . this complication was potentiated by the presence of concurrent hepatic coagulopathy which prejudiced effective hemostasis at the central venous puncture site . 
the effect of thromboxane synthetase inhibition on cardiopulmonary function during endotoxemia in sheep . the early pulmonary hypertension seen with endotoxin ( lipopolysaccharide ) has been reported as resulting from the release of thromboxane a2 . we studied the cardiopulmonary response to endotoxin in sheep with and without treatment with a thromboxane synthetase inhibitor , oky-046 . the animals were implanted with instruments for crystallographic dimension analysis of the left ventricle and measurement of left ventricular , aortic , left atrial , and pulmonary arterial pressures and cardiac index . thirteen sheep received 1.0 micrograms/kg of escherichia coli endotoxin with ( n = 6 ) and without ( n = 7 ) oky-046 ( 10 mg/kg bolus , then 10 micrograms/kg/min ) . oky-046 prevented the increase in pulmonary arterial pressure and decrease in cardiac index usually seen during the early phase of endotoxemia . between 8 and 12 hours after the administration of endotoxin , cardiac index increased from 6.4 + / - 0.8 to 8.4 + / - 0.8 l/min/m2 . concomitantly , the end-systolic pressure/diameter relationship ( a sensitive myocardial contractility index ) significantly decreased from 14.7 + / - 0.6 to 7.7 + / - 0.7 mm hg/mm . another index of the left ventricular contractility , the maximum rate of pressure rise was also reduced . oky-046 prevented decreases in end-systolic pressure/diameter relationship and maximum rate of pressure rise . 
beta-lactam resistance mechanisms of methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus . in vitro and in vivo activity of amoxicillin and penicillin g alone or combined with a penicillinase inhibitor ( clavulanate ) were tested against five isogenic pairs of methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus ( mrsa ) producing or not producing penicillinase . loss of the penicillinase plasmid caused an eight times or greater reduction in the mics of amoxicillin and penicillin g ( from greater than or equal to 64 to 8 micrograms/ml ) , but not of the penicillinase-resistant drugs methicillin and cloxacillin ( greater than or equal to 64 micrograms/ml ) . this difference in antibacterial effectiveness correlated with a more than 10 times greater penicillin-binding protein 2a affinity of amoxicillin and penicillin g than of methicillin and a greater than or equal to 90 % successful amoxicillin treatment of experimental endocarditis due to penicillinase-negative mrsa compared with cloxacillin , which was totally ineffective ( p less than .001 ) . amoxicillin was also effective against penicillinase-producing parent mrsa , provided it was combined with clavulanate . penicillinase-sensitive beta-lactam antibiotics plus penicillinase inhibitors might offer a rational alternative treatment for mrsa infections . 
diagnosing staphylococcus aureus endocarditis by detecting antibodies against s. aureus capsular polysaccharide types 5 and 8 . consecutive serum samples from patients with staphylococcus aureus endocarditis or septicemia or non-s . aureus endocarditis and febrile nonsepticemic controls were tested for antibodies against s. aureus capsular polysaccharide ( cp ) types 5 and 8 by elisa . the upper normal antibody levels were defined as the upper 99.5 % confidence limits of the values from the febrile controls . all available patient isolates were tested for the presence of cp type 5 or 8 ( 85 % of the isolates expressed either serotype ) , and all five patients with s. aureus endocarditis had positive antibody levels against the corresponding serotype within the first 10 days of infection . three other endocarditis patients lacked isolates for cp testing but two of these were positive . positive antibody levels were found in 0 of 28 septicemia patients , in 1 of 12 non-s . aureus endocarditis patients , and in 3 of 37 febrile controls . thus , testing for anti-cp 5 or 8 antibodies , especially together with cp serotyping of the patient 's isolate , seems to provide important information in the differential diagnosis of endocarditis in patients with s. aureus septicemia . 
role of tolerance in cloxacillin treatment of experimental staphylococcus aureus endocarditis . the role of staphylococcus aureus tolerance was investigated in endocarditis in rats . the efficacies of cloxacillin , gentamicin , and a combination of the two were compared for animals infected with a tolerant strain , its kill-sensitive variant , or a nonisogenic nontolerant strain of s. aureus . cloxacillin was significantly less effective for treating the tolerant than for the nontolerant strains . the addition of gentamicin to cloxacillin reduced bacterial numbers in endocardial vegetations for the tolerant strain comparable to the reduction by cloxacillin alone for the nontolerant strains , but had no additional effect for the nontolerant strains . isolates from animals infected with the tolerant or nontolerant strains during antibiotic treatment remained tolerant or nontolerant . these results show that the in vitro phenomenon of tolerance is relevant in vivo . 
sudden death and sleeping history among finnish men . an autopsy was performed in 460 consecutive cases of sudden death among 35 - to 76-year-old men . the closest cohabiting individual known to each decreased subject was interviewed . snoring history was obtained in 321 of the 371 interviews . in 86 cases there was a history of ' habitual ' ( almost always or always ) snoring , and 88 men snored ' often ' . the mean age of subjects was 55.4 years . the mean body mass index ( bmi ) was 26.3 kg m-2 . among the obese snorers ( n = 82 ) , apnoeas had been observed ' occasionally ' , ' often ' , or ' habitually ' in 49 cases . death was classified as cardiovascular in 186 ( 40.4 % ) cases . cardiovascular cause of death was more common among those who snored habitually or often than among those who snored occasionally or never ( p less than 0.05 ) . ' habitual ' snorers died more often while sleeping ( p less than 0.05 ) . habitual snoring was found to be a risk factor for morning death ( p less than 0.01 ) . the possibility of obstructive sleep apnoea as a cause of sudden death should at least be considered if the decreased is known to have been a habitual snorer . 
platelet fatty acids and function in two distinct regions of belgium : relationship to age and dietary habits . we compared the dietary habits , fatty acid composition of plasma and platelet phospholipids , and platelet function in two groups of healthy belgian male subjects , known to differ in their mortality rate from coronary heart disease ( chd ) . in the walloon subjects , there was a larger intake of saturated and a lower intake of ( n-6 ) polyunsaturated fats , confirmed by the fatty acid composition of plasma and platelet phospholipids . while plasma hdl and total cholesterol were similar in the present samples of the two communities , platelet aggregation to epinephrine was significantly higher in the walloon subjects . when the two populations were divided into younger ( 28-54 years ) and older ( 55-73 years ) age groups , the older walloon subjects exhibited platelet hyper-aggregability to most of the agonists , compared to the other three groups . in addition to dietary fats , alcohol and smoking habits , age was an important determinant of platelet phospholipid fatty acids and platelet reactivity . the present results reinforce those of previous studies , indicating that platelet behaviour is significantly affected by the main risk factors for chd . 
high cardiac output as a paraneoplastic syndrome . a high cardiac output ( 17 1 min-1 ) was recorded in a young man suffering from lymphoplasmatocytotic lymphoma . the evolution of the blood disease was characterized by two relapses , during which clinical signs of heart failure were prominent but resolved with efficient blood chemotherapy . the known aetiologies of high cardiac output were excluded . the complete normalization of the cardiac parameters with blood remission suggests that the high cardiac output represented an unusual paraneoplastic syndrome , the pathogenesis of which still remains unknown , although several hypotheses were tested . 
job dimensions associated with severe disability due to cardiovascular disease . this study explored associations among job activities and disability due to cardiovascular disease by merging national disability data with independently-obtained job activity data . disability data were taken from a 1978 u.s. health interview survey ( n = 9855 ) . expert ratings of job activities ( dimensions ) were obtained from a job analysis database ( n = 2485 occupations ) . the two databases were merged such that job dimension data were imputed to each occupation in the disability database . odds ratios for cardiovascular disability were calculated for scores in the second , third , and fourth quartiles for each of the 32 job dimensions , using scores in the first quartile as the standard . job dimensions associated with cardiovascular disability were ( a ) hazardous situations ; ( b ) vigilant work and responsibility for others ; ( c ) exchanging job-related information ; and ( d ) attention to devices . occupations identified with high scores on these job dimensions included transportation jobs ( air traffic controllers , airline pilots and attendants , bus drivers , locomotive engineers , truck drivers ) , teachers ( preschool , adult education ) , and craftsmen/foremen ( machinists , carpenters , and foremen ) . 
regional obesity and risk of cardiovascular disease ; the framingham study . risk of cardiovascular events was determined over 24 years of surveillance in relation to general adiposity reflected by relative weight and by regional obesity estimated by skinfolds and waist girth per inch of height . upper quintile values of relative weight , subscapular skinfolds and waist girth were each associated with increased risks of cardiovascular disease in both sexes . risk of total cardiovascular events increased with the degree of regional , central or abdominal obesity . mortality from cardiovascular disease was also increased . increased relative weight and central obesity were both associated with increased risk factors including cholesterol , blood pressure , glucose and uric acid . changes in weight were mirrored by changes in risk factors with linear trends over a 15 lb range of weight fluctuations . subscapular skinfold and the ratio of subscapular-to-triceps skinfold , measures of central obesity , were in either sex also associated with an increased probability of coronary attacks in particular . the subscapular skinfold contributed to chd risk independent of body mass index ( bmi ) . multivariate analyses taking all the risk factors into account indicate an independent effect of abdominal obesity on stroke , cardiac failure and cardiovascular and all-cause mortality in men . in women , only the subscapular-to-triceps skinfold ratio independently contributes to chd , cardiovascular and all cause mortality . regional obesity appears to be an independent contributor to cardiovascular disease at a given level of general adiposity , its effect only partially mediated through promotion of other known risk factors . these data suggest that cardiovascular disease is as closely linked to abdominal as to general adiposity . 
medicare peer review organization preprocedure review criteria . an analysis of criteria for three procedures the medicare peer review organization ( pro ) program includes preprocedure review using explicit criteria to assess the appropriateness of specific procedures . this study evaluates the variability in the pro preprocedure criteria for the three procedures most frequently reviewed by pros : carotid endarterectomy , cataract removal , and cardiac pacemaker implants . in august 1989 , the pro review criteria were received from the health care financing administration . to provide a reference point for reviewing the pro criteria , national practice guidelines for these three procedures were identified . wide variability was demonstrated in the pro procedure-specific carotid endarterectomy and cataract removal review criteria among pros , and the criteria differed significantly from the identified practice guidelines . the criteria for cardiac pacemaker implants were somewhat less variable , and were based , to varying degrees , on practice guidelines developed by the american college of cardiology ( acc ) . greater attention is needed to improve the development of review criteria , including the use of relevant practice guidelines , to ensure that review criteria are optimal . 
potential complications of high-dose epinephrine therapy in patients resuscitated from cardiac arrest adults resuscitated from nontraumatic cardiac arrest who received intravenous epinephrine in doses chosen by the treating physician and who survived at least 6 hours were studied to determine if high-dose epinephrine produced more complications than standard-dose . a total of 68 patients were enrolled and evaluated for postresuscitation complications attributable to epinephrine , using a two-tailed t test , and contingency analysis . the 33 patients receiving high-dose epinephrine and 35 patients receiving standard-dose epinephrine were similar in demographics and variables known to affect outcome . there was no difference in potential complications between groups except serum calcium , which was 1.97 mmol/l ( sd , 0.20 ) in the high-dose epinephrine group and 2.10 ( sd , 0.20 ) in the standard-dose group . hospital discharge rates ( 18 % in the high-dose vs 30 % in the standard-dose group ) and neurological status on discharge were not significantly different . high-dose epinephrine did not produce increased direct complications in this cardiac arrest population compared with standard-dose epinephrine . 
cardiomyopathy associated with the smoking of crystal methamphetamine . the smoking of crystal methamphetamine , or " ice , " is a growing drug abuse problem in the united states . the toxic effects of methamphetamine smoking have not been well described . we describe two patients with cardiovascular toxic effects associated with the smoking of crystal methamphetamine . in our first patient , the use of smokeable methamphetamine was associated with the subsequent development of pulmonary edema and a dilated cardiomyopathy . in our second patient , the smoking of crystal methamphetamine likely produced diffuse vasospasm that resulted in acute myocardial infarction , cardiogenic shock , and death . the recognition of potentially lethal cardiac complications associated with the smoking of crystal methamphetamine is of extreme significance and should be emphasized to potential abusers of this drug . 
caloric expenditure , life status , and disease in former male athletes and non-athletes . this study examined the association between aerobic , caloric exercise expenditure and life status ( living vs deceased ) as well as the prevalence rates of hypertension ( hbp ) and cardiovascular disease ( cvd ) in former male athletes ( ath ) and non-athletes ( n-ath ) . the initial survey for this study was done in 1952 . follow-up surveys of respondents were done in 1960 , 1968 , 1976 , and 1984 . the present study used all subjects who responded fully to activity and health questions in 1976 and who were reported as either dead or alive ( not lost to follow-up ) in 1984 . a total of 348 subjects ( 185 ath , 163 n-ath ) were assessed and caloric expenditure groups were established by kilocalories ( kcal ) of aerobic exercise per week ; 0 kcal ( group 1 ) , 1-399 kcal ( group 2 ) , 400-899 kcal ( group 3 ) , 900-1499 kcal ( group 4 ) , 1500-2499 kcal ( group 5 ) , and 2500 + kcal ( group 6 ) . only activity considered to be aerobic was used in the establishment of the aerobic categories . death rate was highest in groups 1 and 2 . subjects in group 1 tended to be the oldest . year of birth ( age ) ( p less than 0.001 ) and cvd ( p less than 0.05 ) as reported in 1976 were significantly related to mortality between 1976 and 1984 . college athletic status and 1976 exercise level were not significantly related to mortality . prevalence of cvd and hbp was highest in groups 1 and 6 , suggesting a moderate amount of aerobic activity as optimal . 
selective inhibition by a synthetic hirudin peptide of fibrin-dependent thrombosis in baboons . to determine the importance of the thrombin substrate recognition exosite for fibrinogen binding in the formation of both arterial and venous thrombi , we evaluated the antithrombotic effects of the tyrosine-sulfated dodecapeptide from residues 53-64 of hirudin ( h peptide ) in a nonhuman primate model . this peptide was studied because it inhibits thrombin cleavages of fibrinogen by simple competition without blocking enzyme catalytic-site function . when an exteriorized arteriovenous access shunt model was used in baboons ( papio anubis ) , thrombus formation was induced by placing a thrombogenic device made of ( i ) a segment of tubing coated covalently with type i collagen , which generated platelet-rich thrombi under arterial flow conditions , and ( ii ) two subsequent annular regions of flow expansion that produced fibrin-rich thrombi typically associated with venous valves and veins . thrombus formation was quantified by measurements of 111in-labeled platelet and 125i-labeled fibrinogen deposition in both arterial-flow and venous-flow portions of the device . continuous infusion of h peptide ( 0.5 , 15 , and 75 mg/kg ) proximal to the device for 40 min interrupted , in a dose-response fashion , formation of fibrin-rich thrombus in the regions of disturbed flow and generation of fibrinopeptide a. in contrast , h peptide did not inhibit the capacity of platelets to deposit on the collagen surface ( p greater than 0.2 at all doses ) or to form hemostatic plugs ( as assessed by measurements of bleeding time ; p greater than 0.1 at all doses ) . these findings suggest that , by competitive inhibition of fibrinogen binding to thrombin , fibrin-rich venous-type thrombus formation may be selectively prevented . this strategy may be therapeutically attractive for preserving normal platelet function when conventional anticoagulant therapy is contraindicated . 
hemolytic transfusion reaction following transfusion of frozen and washed autologous red cells a case of hemolytic transfusion reaction , accompanied by hypotension and followed by transient renal failure , occurred after the transfusion of 1 unit of previously frozen autologous red cells . subsequent investigation revealed the probable cause of the hemolysis to be inadequate deglycerolization of the unit . the cause of the associated symptoms is unknown . possibilities include nephrotoxic effects of hemoglobin or stroma , toxic effects of glycerol , or release of vasoactive or thrombogenic substances from lysed red cells . this case of a hemolytic reaction adds to the known risks of autologous transfusion . 
home blood pressure readings in borderline hypertensive patients . home blood pressure monitoring can provide valuable information for physicians managing borderline hypertensive patients . this study was conducted to compare office and home blood pressures in 36 borderline hypertensive subjects , and to determine the accuracy of the home monitoring unit used . the patients were very willing to record their home blood pressures for an extended period of time . the home blood pressure monitors were found to be quite accurate , and blood pressures measured at home were significantly lower than readings obtained in the office . in 39 % ( 14 of 36 ) of the subjects studied , the average home blood pressures were more than 10 mmhg lower than their office readings . these findings support the hypothesis that home blood pressure monitoring can be useful in the management of borderline hypertensive patients . 
vasodilatory beta-blockers : systemic and regional hemodynamic effects . the systemic and regional hemodynamic alterations in hypertension and of the beta-adrenergic receptor inhibiting agents are reviewed . hemodynamically , hypertension may be regarded as persistent elevation of arterial pressure associated with increased total peripheral resistance . in early or mild essential hypertension , however , increased total peripheral resistance may not readily be recognized because of the overriding effect of increased cardiac output . clearly , the hemodynamics of blood pressure control are complex , and the mechanisms of antihypertensive agents must be used appropriately . the early beta-blockers reduced heart rate and cardiac output immediately after intravenous administration without immediately reducing arterial pressure , and calculated total peripheral resistance was increased . with prolonged oral treatment , arterial pressure decreased while maintaining a reduced heart rate and cardiac output . total peripheral resistance , however , remained elevated . recent beta-blockers , such as celiprolol , provide an improved physiologic response by instantly reducing arterial pressure and total peripheral resistance without reducing heart rate or cardiac output or expanding intravascular volume . 
angina , ischemia , and effort tolerance with vasodilating beta-blockers . beta-blockers are known to suppress exercise-induced ischemia but give rise to such problems as fatigue or dyspnea on effort and also bradycardia . in a series of double-blind , placebo-controlled studies of celiprolol ( a cardioselective beta 1-blocker with beta 2-agonist and vasodilatory properties ) in patients with hypertension and angina and in normal volunteers , it was found that celiprolol did not produce bradycardia when given in combination with verapamil . celiprolol did reduce exercise-induced ischemia , but there was no reduction in cardiac output at rest or on exercise compared with placebo . compared with atenolol , celiprolol produced less dyspnea and fatigue at submaximal levels of exercise . it is concluded that celiprolol possesses certain differences , compared with conventional beta-blockers , that may be of direct clinical benefit . 
efficacy of celiprolol in the elderly hypertensive patient . with the rapidly increasing average age of the population of the western world , care and treatment of the elderly are becoming increasingly important . cardiovascular diseases are major causes of death and disability in the elderly ; hence , identification of cardiovascular risk factors and effective treatment are essential . evidence indicates that these risk factors in the elderly are similar to those in the young ; namely , high blood pressure , hyperlipidemia , glucose intolerance , hyperfibrinogenemia , obesity , and cigarette smoking . the latter two relate to general patient management , whereas the remainder can be significantly influenced by modern drug therapy such as celiprolol . this drug is a third-generation highly selective beta 1-adrenoceptor antagonist with beta 2-agonist and vasodilatory activity giving a unique and advantageous pharmacologic profile for antihypertensive therapy with particular benefits for the elderly . the impact of therapy with celiprolol on the cardiovascular risk factors in the elderly hypertensive patient is reviewed . 
cardiovascular risk factors and the effects of intervention . cardiovascular risk factors can be substantially modified by changes in life-style such as diet , exercise , smoking cessation , and moderation of alcohol consumption . in turn , these can reduce blood pressure , heart rate at rest , and blood lipid concentrations . epidemiologic evidence shows that for every 1 % change in serum cholesterol levels , there is a 3 % change in the likelihood of developing coronary heart disease . in addition , a long-term ( 5-year ) change of 5 to 6 mm hg in diastolic blood pressure can reduce the chances of stroke by 35 to 40 % and of coronary heart disease by 20 to 25 % . the full impact of this broad range of interventions on population health has still to be fully realized in many countries , including the united kingdom , however it is likely to be considerable . some of the recent evidence in support of such cardiovascular risk factor modification is selectively reviewed . 
reversal of cardiac and vascular hypertrophy by antihypertensive therapy . cardiovascular hypertrophy , such as left ventricular hypertrophy , and arteriolar hypertrophic changes are common in established hypertension . left ventricular hypertrophy , in particular , markedly increases the risk of cardiovascular complications and death . the ability of an antihypertensive agent to reverse hypertrophic changes could , therefore , be greatly advantageous . clinical studies with beta-blockers have shown them able to substantially reduce left ventricular hypertrophy . for reversal of arteriolar hypertrophy , vasodilatory beta-blockers have been shown to be preferable to ordinary beta-blockers , possibly because vasodilation reduces vascular smooth-muscle tone , which may facilitate reversal of hypertrophy . theoretically , a vasodilatory beta-blocker , such as celiprolol , would therefore appear to offer advantages because of its ability to reverse left ventricular and arteriolar hypertrophy in addition to its antihypertensive action . the practical and clinical effects of cardiovascular hypertrophy reversal remain to be fully evaluated ; however , it is logical to assume that they would be of considerable benefit to the hypertensive patient . 
dialysis-induced alterations in left ventricular filling : mechanisms and clinical significance . quantitative two-dimensional ( 2-d ) and doppler echocardiography were used to determine whether hemodialysis results in alterations in left ventricular ( lv ) diastolic filling that might contribute to dialysis-induced hypotension , as well as to assess whether any hemodynamic variables or indices of diastolic filling might be used to identify which patients were at the greatest risk of becoming hemodynamically unstable during dialysis . sixteen male patients undergoing routine maintenance hemodialysis for end-stage renal disease were prospectively studied before and after hemodialysis . following hemodialysis there was a significant prolongation ( p less than 0.05 ) in lv isovolumetric relaxation time ( ivrt ) , as well as a significant reduction in the rate and extent of early rapid ventricular filling ( p less than 0.005 ) ; in contrast , late atrial-assisted filling did not change significantly . a multiple stepwise linear regression analysis of predialysis hemodynamic parameters and noninvasive indices of lv filling showed that there was a significant independent inverse relationship between the frequency of dialysis-related hypotensive episodes and the duration of early lv filling ( r = -0.81 ; p less than 0.001 ) . these results suggest that hemodialysis results in discrete alterations in early lv filling , with no significant compensatory increase in late atrial-assisted ventricular filling . further , patients with the shortest early lv filling times appeared to have the greatest predilection for becoming hemodynamically unstable during dialysis . 
hemodynamic effects of partial correction of chronic anemia by recombinant human erythropoietin in patients on dialysis . eighteen patients on chronic hemodialysis with renal anemia were treated with recombinant human erythropoietin ( r-huepo ) . hemodynamic parameters in the resting state were determined before and after successful treatment . posttreatment cardiac index was decreased ( 3.3 v 2.8 l/min/m2 ) , whereas diastolic blood pressure ( 72 v 79 mm hg ) and calculated peripheral resistance ( 2,230 v 2,860 dyne.cm.s-5 ) were increased significantly when compared with the pretreatment period . we conclude from our study that the increase of blood pressure as seen in patients on dialysis , who are effectively treated with r-huepo , is due to an increase in peripheral resistance . this increase overrules the decrease of cardiac index and might well be a result of peripheral vasoconstriction due to improved oxygen availability . 
use of the fistula assessment monitor to detect stenoses in access fistulae . twenty-three unselected hemodialysis patients with functioning access arteriovenous fistulae were studied prospectively to determine the best technique for detecting stenoses within the fistulae . combined clinical assessment and fistula assessment monitoring were compared with transbrachial angiography . fistula assessment monitoring was more accurate ( 96 % ) than combined clinical assessment ( accuracy , 52 % ) in stenosis detection . complications of angiography occurred in 17 % of patients ; there were no complications of fistula assessment monitoring . fistula assessment monitoring was better than combined clinical assessment in predicting clinical outcome for arteriovenous fistulae over 6 months and was as good as angiography . routine fistula assessment monitoring could reduce inappropriate angiography and detect clinically significant silent stenoses . it is an ideal method for monitoring arteriovenous access fistulae . 
cyclosporine-induced thrombotic microangiopathy resulting in renal allograft loss and its successful reuse : a report of two cases . cyclosporine-induced thrombotic microangiopathy is a rare complication of renal transplantation . it commonly leads to graft loss . the mechanism of this entity is unknown . factors intrinsic to the donor kidney appear to play an important role . we describe two cases of renal transplant patients who lost their first grafts secondary to cyclosporine-induced thrombotic microangiopathy . these patients were successfully retransplanted with an immunosuppressive protocol that included long-term cyclosporine . we conclude that graft loss from this entity is not a contraindication to subsequent successful transplantation with cyclosporine . 
unsuspected mitral stenosis . purpose and patients and methods : we observed a series of patients in whom the diagnosis of mitral stenosis was first discovered in the echocardiography laboratory . because of this experience , we examined the records of 152 patients with echocardiographic evidence of rheumatic mitral stenosis to determine the clinical characteristics and course of patients with unsuspected mitral stenosis as well as those factors that may have obscured the diagnosis . results : of these 152 patients , 18 had mitral stenosis that was unsuspected clinically until the echocardiogram . these patients were elderly , with a median age of 72 years . they were all referred for echocardiography because of cardiac symptoms . eight patients were referred for evaluation of congestive heart failure . five patients were referred for evaluation of aortic valve disease . three patients were referred because of cerebrovascular accidents and atrial fibrillation . the doppler-determined mean diastolic mitral gradient ranged from 4 to 15 mm hg ( mean : 7 mm hg ) . mitral stenosis ranged in severity from trivial to very severe . eight patients had moderate to severe mitral stenosis with estimated mitral valve areas less than or equal to 1.5 cm2 . seven had mild or trivial mitral stenosis with estimated mitral valve areas greater than 1.5 cm2 . after further evaluation , two patients underwent mitral valve surgery with improvement of congestive failure . in three patients , warfarin therapy was begun to prevent emboli . thus , five of 18 patients had a significant immediate change in therapy because of the discovery of mitral stenosis . conclusion : the diagnosis of mitral stenosis may not be suspected in the presence of advanced age , other serious cardiac and medical conditions , or mechanical factors that complicate the physical examination . in these patients , mitral stenosis may be hemodynamically significant and may cause significant symptoms . 
prognostic significance of valvular regurgitation in patients with infective endocarditis . purpose : doppler ultrasound is a sensitive modality for detecting and quantitating valvular regurgitation in patients with infective endocarditis . because valvular regurgitation leads to heart failure , we evaluated the prognostic significance of doppler-detected valvular regurgitation in patients with endocarditis who had not yet developed clinical heart failure . patients and methods : we reviewed the medical records of 65 patients with a clinical diagnosis of infective endocarditis from may 1985 to march 1990 . a total of 49 patients were included in the study : 33 patients with native valve endocarditis and 16 patients with prosthetic valve endocarditis . the initial doppler echocardiogram was examined in these patients to determine the presence and degree of valvular regurgitation . results : significant ( moderate to severe ) valvular regurgitation was detected in 23 ( 47 % ) patients . the presence or absence of significant valvular regurgitation did not predict the development of congestive heart failure , the need for surgery , or death ( p = ns ) . the development of congestive heart failure was significantly associated with the need for surgery ( p less than 0.0001 ) and death ( p less than 0.05 ) . conclusion : we conclude that the detection of significant valvular regurgitation in patients with infective endocarditis who have not yet developed heart failure is not predictive of future complications nor does the absence of significant valvular regurgitation identify a group of patients with a more favorable prognosis . in our series , patients who developed congestive heart failure had a significantly higher incidence of surgery and death . therefore , decisions regarding clinical management in patients with infective endocarditis should not be made solely on the presence or absence of echocardiographically detected valvular regurgitation . 
comparison of labetalol versus enalapril as monotherapy in elderly patients with hypertension : results of 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring . purpose : this study compared the safety and efficacy of labetalol and enalapril as antihypertensive therapy for elderly patients . patients and methods : a randomized , open-label , parallel controlled trial was conducted . after completing a 4-week placebo phase , 79 elderly ( 65 years or older ) patients with an average standing diastolic blood pressure ( bp ) 95 mm hg or above and 114 mm hg or less were randomized to receive a 12-week course of either labetalol or enalapril in an open-label design . the patients ' bp and heart rate were evaluated biweekly by trained observers unaware of the treatment status , and drug dosage was titrated ( up to 400 mg twice a day of labetalol or 40 mg daily of enalapril ) to achieve a standing diastolic bp of less than 90 mm hg and a decrease of 10 mm hg from baseline . patients underwent 24-hour ambulatory bp monitoring ( abpm ) at the end of the placebo phase and again after 8 weeks of active treatment . results : the treatment groups were comparable in their reduction of supine diastolic bp , with no significant differences between the two treatments . labetalol demonstrated a significantly greater reduction ( p less than 0.05 ) in standing diastolic bp at the end of the titration period compared to enalapril , but this difference was not significant by the end of the study period . based on 24-hour abpm readings , labetalol reduced mean 24-hour diastolic bp ( p less than 0.05 ) and mean heart rate ( p less than 0.05 ) more than enalapril . the labetalol-treated patients were significantly less often above their diastolic bp goal throughout the 24-hour abpm period ( p less than 0.01 ) . the two treatments were equally well tolerated . conclusions : the results indicate that labetalol and enalapril are equally effective in lowering supine diastolic bp in the elderly , but labetalol is more effective in lowering ambulatory bp and heart rate throughout the day . 
elderly patients with congestive heart failure under prepaid care . purpose : because of concern about the quality of care received by medicare patients in health maintenance organizations ( hmos ) , the care of patients with congestive heart failure ( chf ) in eight hmos was compared with the care of fee-for-service ( ffs ) medicare cases . patients and methods : we compared the care of 170 patients with chf enrolled in one of eight medicare hmos with the care of 191 similar ffs patients . panels of expert physicians developed criteria for evaluating quality of care , and specially trained nurse clinicians abstracted medical records . results : outpatient evaluation and management were similar in both settings , although hmo patients were significantly more likely to be advised to restrict salt intake . however , ffs patients with uncontrolled hypertension were more likely to have their medication regimens changed ( 62 % versus 36 % , p less than 0.01 ) . ejection fractions were obtained equally as often , and inpatient management was similar for both groups . nonetheless , hmo providers scheduled follow-up visits within 1 week of hospital discharge more often ( 42 % versus 27 % , p less than 0.01 ) . conclusions : this study suggests that financial incentives of prepaid care are not detrimental to most aspects of care for chf patients . more rapid follow-up after hospital discharge for patients with chf suggests that hmos may be more effective in delivering continuity of care for patients with chronic illness . 
emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy . emery-dreifuss syndrome is a rare form of muscular dystrophy associated with cardiac complications that lead to sudden death . the disorder and its potential anaesthetic implications in the management of a patient who presented for orthopaedic surgery is described . 
non-drug related asystole associated with anaesthetic induction . a patient is presented where routine venepuncture associated with anaesthetic induction resulted in bradycardia and asystole . the case highlights the need for special caution with , and ecg monitoring throughout induction for , patients with a history of syncope . it also demonstrates the need for caution when attributing cardiovascular events during induction to the effect of the induction agents used . 
phenytoin administration by constant intravenous infusion : selective rates of administration . study objectives : to determine the adequacy of seizure control and the adverse effects of administering an iv loading dose of phenytoin by constant infusion pump . design : a prospective study of patients presenting with acute onset of seizures . patients were divided into two groups . group 1 comprised all patients 50 years of age or younger without a history of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease ( ascvd ) . group 2 comprised all patients older than 50 years or with a history of ascvd . setting : a rural community hospital emergency department . type of participants : forty-two adult patients . interventions : both groups received an iv loading dose of phenytoin at 15 mg/kg . infusion rates were 50 mg/min and 25 mg/min for groups 1 and 2 , respectively . cardiac rhythm and vital signs were monitored throughout and after infusion . measures and main results : group 2 demonstrated significantly more cardiovascular side effects ( hypotension and bradycardia ) than did group 1 ( fisher 's exact test , p less than .05 ) . conclusion : phenytoin provided adequate seizure control in both groups . for individuals with ascvd , iv phenytoin administration rates should not exceed 25 mg/min . for individuals without ascvd , phenytoin administration at 50 mg/min appears safe and without significant cardiovascular side effects . 
the cardiovascular effects of cocaine . cocaine use and abuse continue to overwhelm urban economic , social , and health care systems . patients frequently present to the emergency department with life-threatening manifestations of cocaine use , including trauma , acquired immune deficiency syndrome , psychomotor agitation , and cardiovascular collapse . adequate treatment of the cocaine-intoxicated patient requires a critical understanding of the risk-to-benefit ratios for pharmacologic , toxicologic , and surgical or obstetric interventions . the pharmacologic and physiologic bases for the vascular manifestations of cocaine toxicity and experimental evidence for treatment strategies are reviewed . 
drug-induced supraventricular tachycardia : a case report of fluoxetine . we report the occurrence of supraventricular tachycardia and hypotension in a 54-year-old woman after maintenance therapy with fluoxetine . although cases of tachycardia and palpitations have been reported , supraventricular tachycardia and hypotension have not been directly attributed to fluoxetine . 
torsades de pointes therapy with phenytoin . we present the case of a woman with myocardial infarction complicated by malignant ventricular arrhythmia and torsades de pointes . the torsades de pointes was refractory to conventional therapy but responsive to phenytoin . this case suggests the clinical usefulness of phenytoin for adjunct therapy of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias when standard treatment modalities fail . 
delayed onset of cardiac arrhythmias from sustained-release verapamil . sustained-release products in overdose are known to produce prolonged effects as well as delayed onset . the availability of sustained-release calcium channel blockers may produce an initial misleading picture for patients who are at risk for serious toxicity . we report the cases of two adults who had delayed onset of arrhythmias after ingestion of sustained-release verapamil . in both cases , a single dose of activated charcoal was administered , but the patients still developed toxicity . some of the unique problems encountered with sustained-release formulations are discussed , and 24-hour cardiac monitoring for sustained-release calcium channel blocker overdoses , despite a possible early asymptomatic period , is suggested . 
estimation of myocardial ischemic injury during ventricular fibrillation with total circulatory arrest using high-energy phosphates and lactate as metabolic markers . study objective : to define the time course of myocardial ischemic injury using high-energy phosphate ( hep ) depletion and the cessation of lactate production as metabolic markers . setting : data were collected in a laboratory animal model . type of participants : ten immature mixed breed swine weighing 23.2 + / - 3.5 kg . design : after thoracotomy , transmural myocardial biopsies were taken in vivo during normal sinus rhythm and at designated times during ventricular fibrillation with total circulatory arrest ( vf-tca ) . measurements and main results : frozen tissue samples were analyzed for adenine nucleotides , by high-performance liquid chromatography , and lactate by enzymatic assay . at five minutes of vf-tca , myocardial adenosine triphosphate averaged 50 % of control . at 15 minutes of vf-tca , 89 % of animals had myocardial adenosine triphosphate levels above 20 % of control and adenylate charge ratio above 0.60 . with more than 30 minutes of vf-tca , all animals had adenosine triphosphate levels below 10 % of control and adenylate charge ratio below 0.30 . in addition , myocardial lactate levels plateaued after 30 minutes of vf-tca , indicating the cessation of lactate production . conclusion : these results suggest that the myocardium can tolerate vf-tca for as long as 15 minutes without irreversible injury ; however , post-ischemic myocardial dysfunction may occur after as little as five minutes of vf-tca . with more than 30 minutes of vf-tca , myocardial injury is likely to be irreversible . 
comparison of two doses of endotracheal epinephrine in a cardiac arrest model . study objective : the objective of this study was to measure plasma catecholamine levels and the cardiovascular response before and after endotracheal administration of epinephrine in a swine cardiac arrest model . design : prospective , controlled laboratory investigation . type of participants : twenty-one swine weighing 10 to 12 kg , anesthetized with ketamine and alpha-chloralose and ventilated with room air . interventions : ventricular fibrillation was induced with 90 v of 60 hz current delivered to the right ventricle by transvenous pacemaker . blood samples for epinephrine were drawn before arrest and every two minutes thereafter . at five minutes , external mechanical cardiac compressions were initiated . nine animals received no further therapy and served as controls . two groups of six animals received either 0.01 mg/kg or 0.1 mg/kg of epinephrine through the endotracheal tube at ten and 20 minutes . blood samples were assayed for epinephrine . measurements : arterial blood pressure , lead ii ecg , and plasma epinephrine . main results : swine receiving epinephrine 0.01 mg/kg had an increase in epinephrine levels after drug administration , but these were not significantly different from control levels . the 0.1-mg / kg dose group had a significant increase in plasma epinephrine levels compared with controls and the 0.01-mg / kg dose group after receiving epinephrine at ten and 20 minutes . these increases were from 14 + / - 3 to 215 + / - 40 ng/ml ( + / - sem ) at 12 minutes after arrest and from 151 + / - 56 to 402 + / - 80 ng/ml at 22 minutes after arrest . conclusion : these data suggest that standard dosing of epinephrine through the endotracheal tube during arrest does not produce significant increases in plasma catecholamines or blood pressure . epinephrine 0.1 mg/kg produces a significant increase in plasma epinephrine levels , but it is not sufficient to produce a significant change in blood pressure . 
correction of metabolic acidosis in experimental cpr : a comparative study of sodium bicarbonate , carbicarb , and dextrose . study objective : carbicarb , sodium bicarbonate , and 5 % dextrose were compared for effects on resuscitability in a canine model of electromechanical dissociation after ventricular fibrillation . design/interventions : 21 healthy mongrel dogs were anesthetized with pentobarbital , intubated , and mechanically supported . they were instrumented to measure heart rate , arterial pressure , pulmonary artery pressure , right atrial pressure , cardiac output , and arterial and mixed venous blood gases . the dogs were then subjected to a protocol that consisted of three successive cpr episodes . during each episode they were treated with repeated injections of one of the three substances , randomly chosen . after two minutes of ventricular fibrillation and four minutes of electromechanical dissociation , cpr was started with a thumper ( rate , 60 ; duty cycle , 50 % ) . if recovery was not obtained after five minutes of cpr , 1 meq/kg carbicarb or sodium bicarbonate or 5 ml d5w was injected in the right atrium . half the dose of the same substance was injected every five minutes thereafter ; 1 mg epinephrine was also injected every five minutes until recovery . hemodynamic and gasometric evaluations were performed five and 20 minutes after recovery . this later evaluation served as baseline for the next cpr episode . measurements and main results : the duration and success rates of cpr are similar in the three cpr groups . hemodynamic parameters were also similar during recovery . bicarbicarb and sodium bicarbonate increased bicarbonate levels and corrected ph in the arterial and mixed venous blood . there was no difference in the blood gas values after carbicarb and sodium bicarbonate . conclusion : in this model of cardiac arrest , carbicarb was not superior to sodium bicarbonate in the correction of metabolic acidosis during cpr . 
plasma concentrations of epinephrine during cpr in the dog . study objective : the purpose of this study was to evaluate whether the marked increase in the plasma concentrations of epinephrine during cardiopulmonary arrest and basic life support ( bls ) could be due in part to decreased distribution and/or elimination . design and interventions : dogs were randomly assigned to undergo adrenalectomy or sham-operation . some adrenalectomized animals received an epinephrine infusion . measurements and main results : in the seven sham-operated dogs , the plasma epinephrine concentrations increased markedly during bls as expected . in the seven adrenalectomized dogs receiving a constant infusion of epinephrine , cardiopulmonary arrest and bls induced a three to sixfold increase in plasma epinephrine concentrations , with an increase in the mean plasma epinephrine concentrations ( calculated from the area under the curve ) of 1.21 + / - 0.12 ng/ml ( p less than .05 ) . in the seven adrenalectomized dogs receiving a constant epinephrine infusion but not subjected to cardiopulmonary arrest , the plasma epinephrine concentrations remained stable . finally , in the seven adrenalectomized dogs not receiving an epinephrine infusion , the mean plasma epinephrine concentrations during bls ( calculated from the area under the curve ) increased only by 0.05 + / - 0.04 ng/ml , significantly less than in adrenalectomized dogs receiving an epinephrine infusion ( p less than .01 ) . conclusion : the increase in plasma epinephrine concentrations during cardiopulmonary arrest and bls is due in part to an altered disposition of epinephrine . 
tightening the screw : statutory and legal supervision of interhospital patient transfers . a federal statute governing the transfer of indigent patients from medicare-enrolled hospitals was first enacted in 1986 . review of the statutory and other legal controls over interhospital transfers is precipitated by its recent amendment and the fining of a texas physician for transferring a high-risk obstetric patient without following the statutory guidelines . these events are part of a pattern of increasing regulation of the practice of medicine . physicians and hospital administrators responsible for hospital transfer policies should be aware of regulatory developments . hospitals contemplating transfer of patients must develop transfer policies that comply with governing law , including state law . a transfer policy should provide guidelines as to when a patient is " stable for transfer " . patients may not be transferred unless a physician can certify that delay attendant to transfer will not be detrimental . furthermore , the policy should specify the procedures to be followed to effect a transfer and any documentation that the physician will have to complete . 
association of pneumothorax and hypotension with intraventricular haemorrhage . to test the hypothesis that acute hypotension resulting from pneumothorax would be associated with severe brain injury ( grade 3 or 4 intraventricular haemorrhage ) , 67 very low birthweight ( vlbw ) infants of 32 weeks ' gestation or less with respiratory distress syndrome and pneumothorax were studied . thirty six had pneumothorax associated with systemic hypotension and 31 had pneumothorax with normal blood pressure . the groups were similar in gestational age and severity of their respiratory distress syndrome . thirty two of 36 of infants with pneumothorax associated with hypotension ( 89 % ) had grade 3 or 4 intraventricular haemorrhage . this percentage was significantly greater than the percentage for infants with pneumothorax and normal blood pressure ( three of 31 , 10 % ) . the risk ratio for grade 3 or 4 intraventricular haemorrhage for infants with pneumothorax associated with hypotension was 9.8 compared with neonates with pneumothorax and normal blood pressure . these observations are consistent with the hypothesis that systemic hypotension and cerebral hypoperfusion are important factors leading to intraventricular haemorrhage in vlbw infants . 
increased incidence of respiratory distress syndrome in babies of hypertensive mothers . there is controversy over the effect of hypertension in pregnancy on the incidence of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome . we investigated the association between maternal hypertension and the incidence of respiratory distress syndrome in 268 very low birthweight babies of less than 34 weeks ' gestation . a lower incidence of respiratory distress syndrome was associated with growth retardation and membrane rupture greater than 24 hours . maternal hypertension was associated with an increased incidence of respiratory distress syndrome . we used the multiple logistic regression model to control for confounding variables , as the maternal and neonatal factors associated with respiratory distress syndrome were not evenly distributed between the two groups . after adjustment for birth weight , gestational age , growth retardation , and membrane rupture greater than 24 hours , the risk of developing respiratory distress syndrome was significantly greater in babies of hypertensive mothers . significance was lost when labour before delivery and mode of delivery were taken into account . the increased incidence of respiratory distress syndrome in babies of hypertensive mothers may be due to the absence of labour before delivery because of the greater likelihood of caesarean section . 
review of clinical experience with digoxin immune fab ( ovine ) . following the development of methods for eliciting and purifying digoxin-specific fab fragments with high affinity and specificity for cardiac glycosides , clinical studies were undertaken as a multicenter , open-label trial to test safety and efficacy in patients with advanced and potentially life-threatening digitalis toxicity that failed to respond to conventional therapeutic measures . one-hundred fifty such patients were treated with digoxin-specific antibody fragments purified from immunoglobulin g ( igg ) produced in sheep . doses of fab were equivalent to the amount of digoxin or digitoxin in the patient 's body , as estimated from the medical history or serum concentration measurements . of 150 patients included in this trial , detailed information is available on 148 . one-hundred nineteen ( 80 % ) had resolution of all signs and symptoms of digitalis toxicity following specific fab fragment infusions , 14 ( 10 % ) improved , and 15 ( 10 % ) showed no response . among 14 patients with adverse events possibly or probably caused by fab , the most common events were development of hypokalemia and exacerbation of congestive heart failure . analysis of the available clinical data indicates that a treatment response was observed in at least 90 % of patients with convincing evidence of advanced and potentially life-threatening digitalis toxicity . the data from this multicenter trial have been augmented by findings from an observational surveillance study conducted to monitor the safety and effectiveness of treatment with digoxin immune fab ( ovine ) following commercial availability . in this experience , 74 % of patients were judged to have a complete or partial response to treatment , and 12 % no response . the response for the remaining 14 % was not reported or reported as uncertain . in this clinical experience , digoxin-specific fab was generally well tolerated and clinically effective in patients with potentially life-threatening digitalis toxicity . 
antithrombotic efficacy of continuous extradural analgesia after knee replacement . we have studied the effect of extradural analgesia on postoperative venous thrombosis in patients undergoing knee arthroplasty . forty-eight patients were allocated randomly to receive either general anaesthesia or extradural analgesia with local anaesthetics for 3 days . all patients wore compressive elastic stockings and no anticoagulant drugs were administered . bilateral venography was performed 10 days after surgery . continuous extradural analgesia did not impede mobilization of the patients . one case of nonfatal pulmonary embolism occurred in a patient who received general anaesthesia . the use of continuous extradural analgesia resulted in a significant difference in the total incidence of deep vein thrombosis ( 18 % compared with 59 % after general anaesthesia ( p = 0.02 ] . the incidence of calf vein thrombosis was 12 % compared with 45 % after general anaesthesia ( p = 0.05 ) . 
local hypothermia to prolong safe tourniquet time . local hypothermia was studied as a method to safely prolong tourniquet time for reconstructive procedures of the upper extremity . an ice blanket constructed of flannel cloth and cold gel packs was applied to the limb for 45 minutes preoperatively . seventy-eight patients were evaluated for complications resulting from hypothermia and prolonged tourniquet application . the duration of continuous tourniquet ischemia averaged two hours and 25 minutes . intraoperative muscle temperature recordings indicated that the iced limbs were an average of 12.9 degrees cooler than noniced limbs before tourniquet inflation . electron microscopic studies of biopsied muscle showed no evidence of ischemic changes . there were no postoperative complications associated with prolonged tourniquet inflation or the hypothermia blanket technique . local hypothermia appears to be a safe and effective method of decreasing the adverse effects of tourniquet ischemia and allowing continuous tourniquet inflation time to extend safely beyond the customary two-hour limit . 
demographic , social and stress correlates of hypertension among the urban poor . the relationship of demographic , social , and psychological variables to the diagnosis of hypertension in a population of urban , poor , predominantly black out-patients is reported . subjects were 182 patients presenting for health care at wayne state university family practice clinic . age , race , marital status , attendance at religious services , education , employment status , income , source of income and interpersonal stress were significantly related to a diagnosis of hypertension in this sample . of those characteristics found to be significantly related to hypertension , discriminative analysis showed that age , race , education and frequency of church attendance were most important in predicting a diagnosis of hypertension among this out-patient sample of the urban poor . implications for clinical care and for future research needs are considered . 
strain differences in baroreflex inhibition by centrally infused enalapril in old rats . to determine whether inhibition of the brain renin-angiotensin system would affect baroreflexes similarly in old rats of different strains , we compared 24-month-old male fischer 344 and sprague-dawley rats . baroreflex sensitivity was tested while the rats were awake by recording reflex heart rate responses elicited as blood pressure was elevated with phenylephrine or lowered with sodium nitroprusside . sprague-dawley rats had higher blood pressures and lower heart rates initially . chronic infusion of enalapril , a converting enzyme inhibitor , into a lateral cerebral ventricle ( icv ) for two weeks lowered blood pressure in sprague-dawley but not in fischer 344 rats . furthermore , reflex bradycardia was unaffected in either rat strain , but reflex tachycardia was selectively suppressed in fischer 344 rats . thus , although time controls were not done to rule out spontaneous changes during the 14-day infusion period , these results suggest that central cardiovascular regulation does not change similarly with age in these two rat strains . as removal of the brain renin-angiotensin system lowered blood pressure in one strain and inhibited reflex tachycardia in the other , the divergence could mean that the brain renin-angiotensin system acts differently to keep blood pressure elevated in sprague-dawley rats and modulate reflex tachycardia in fischer 344 rats . 
prostacyclin production in myocardial infarction in the acute phase and during follow-up . twenty-five patients with myocardial infarction were monitored in the acute phase and during follow-up with regard to the in vivo production of prostacyclin ( pgi2 ) and thromboxane ( txa2 ) , by measurement of their major urinary metabolites , 2,3-dinor-6-keto-pgf1 alpha and 2,3-dinor-txb2 , respectively . in 22 of these patients pgi2 and txa2 production were also assessed before , during and after an exercise test performed 6 weeks after discharge . in approximately 24 % of patients the in vivo production of prostacyclin did not increase during the acute phase of the infarction process . this inability was usually associated with a decrease in the release of heart muscle enzymes , and was mostly frequently observed in women . during the exercise tolerance test , none of the patients showed any increase in prostacyclin production , in contrast to healthy volunteers , in whom a significant increase was seen . there were no differences between patients with and without an increase in prostacyclin production during the acute phase . at the follow-up 2 years after the myocardial infarction , eight cardiac events had occurred , all of which were noted among patients who exhibited an expected increase in prostacyclin production in association with the infarction . this would seem reasonable , since most of the patients in this group had larger primary infarctions . 
rapid and correct diagnosis of myocardial infarction : standardized case history and clinical examination provide important information for correct referral to monitored beds . the value of thorough examination of the case history as a diagnostic tool on hospitalization of patients with suspected myocardial infarction was investigated in three independent prospective studies . use of a limited number of pain-related elements ( = ' criteria ' ) , that had already been obtained in the emergency room , could improve the decision on whether or not to admit patients to the coronary-care unit . as an example , in one of the studies , use of such criteria would have reduced the number of ' unnecessary ' coronary-care-unit admissions from 298 to 162 , a 46 % reduction ( p less than 0.001 ) . in the same patient sample , use of the criteria could have reduced the number of patients with definite acute myocardial infarction , admitted to the general wards , from 47 to 22 , a 53 % reduction ( p less than 0.01 ) . these favourable results were confirmed in the two independent , smaller-scale studies . 
skeletal muscle depressed calcium and phosphofructokinase in chronic heart failure are upregulated by captopril -- a double-blind , placebo-controlled study . the effects of the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor captopril , after treatment for 5-6 weeks with 25 mg t.i.d. , were studied in 12 patients with stable moderate heart failure . five patients received placebo treatment , and the two groups were comparable at baseline . angiotensin ii levels decreased in response to captopril therapy . skeletal muscle potassium , magnesium and chloride levels did not differ from reference values . calcium was subnormal ( p less than 0.0001 ) , but increased to the reference range during captopril treatment . phosphofructokinase , a rate-limiting glycolytic enzyme , was in the lower reference range and increased ( p less than 0.04 ) in response to captopril therapy . in conclusion , stable moderate heart failure is associated with low levels of skeletal muscle calcium and phosphofructokinase activity , these metabolic changes tending to return to normal levels with captopril treatment . 
gastric lymphoma causing granulocytopenia and cold intolerance , with recovery after treatment . a 34-year-old man was found to have granulocytopenia with a white blood count of 2.3 x 10 ( 9 ) l-1 , consisting of 10 % segmented neutrophils , 50 % monocytes and 40 % lymphocytes . a bone marrow aspirate showed 20 % promyelocytes and 10 % blasts with monoblastic features , and a smouldering myelomonocytic leukaemia was considered to be a possible diagnosis . in cold weather the patient experienced cold intolerance with acrocyanosis and small ulcerations on the ears . the test for heparin-precipitable protein ( ' cryofibrinogen ' ) was strongly positive . during the following year , these signs and symptoms persisted , and the patient also developed constant moderate pain in the epigastric region . gastroscopy revealed a large lymphoma of the stomach , which was a high-grade malignant centroblastic type of non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . after successful removal of the tumour , and six courses of potent cytostatic combinations , the patient recovered completely , and the granulocytopenia and cold intolerance disappeared . 
major clinical diagnoses found among patients with raynaud phenomenon from the general population . this study of 62 individuals with raynaud phenomenon ( rp ) drawn from the general population of south carolina shows a profile of associated diseases that is different from the one reported from hospital based studies . we found that connective tissue diseases affect a much smaller fraction of patients with rp than previously reported . compared to rp negative controls , our rp positive group was found to suffer more frequently from a variety of diseases , both rp related and not rp related . 
serological arguments for classifying raynaud 's phenomenon as idiopathic . twenty-five patients with idiopathic raynaud 's phenomenon were followed prospectively for a mean period of 48 months . clinical and laboratory assessments were performed on admission and on followup . the sera were analyzed for the presence of autoantibodies ( antinuclear , antiskeleton and antiorganelle antibodies ) . sixteen patients were antinuclear antibody positive and 2 anticentromere antibody positive . eight patients produced antivimentin , 5 antimitochondrial , 4 anti-golgi complex , and 3 anticentriol antibodies . eleven patients produced antidesmosome antibodies . only one patient ( anti-rnp and antidesmosome antibody positive ) developed a systemic disease ( mixed connective tissue disease ) during followup . the initial screening of sera may help to classify raynaud 's phenomenon as idiopathic more accurately . 
microheterogeneity of acute phase proteins in the differentiation of polymyalgia rheumatica from polymyositis . we studied an alpha-1-acid glycoprotein ( agp ) and an alpha-1-antichymotrypsin ( acht ) microheterogeneity in sera of patients with polymyalgia rheumatica ( pmr ) , giant cell arteritis ( gca/pmr ) , polymyositis/dermatomyositis ( pm/dm ) and healthy individuals by affinity electrophoresis with concanavalin a ( con-a ) as the ligand . our results are expressed as reactivity coefficients . the mean of agp reactivity coefficients ( ag-rc + / - sd ) in pmr ( 0.92 + / - 0.17 ) and gca/pmr ( 0.91 + / - 0.12 ) were significantly lower compared with the mean ag-rc in patients with pm/dm ( 1.48 + / - 0.52 ) as well as in healthy individuals ( 1.34 + / - 0.9 ) . moreover , an additional microheterogeneous form of agp was noted in patients with pm/dm . in parallel , we also found that the mean of acht reactivity coefficients ( ac-rc + / - sd ) were lower in patients with pmr ( 2.94 + / - 1.24 ) and gca/pmr ( 1.66 + / - 0.16 ) compared with healthy individuals ( 3.92 + / - 1.17 ) . the mean of ac-rc in patients with pm/dm ( 6.74 + / - 4.35 ) was significantly higher than in patients with pmr and gca/pmr as well as in healthy individuals . our results show that the changes in reactivity of agp and acht with con-a are useful diagnostic markers for the differentiation of pmr and gca/pmr from pm/dm . 
dapsone is an effective therapy for the skin lesions of subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus and urticarial vasculitis in a patient with c2 deficiency . the deficiency of second component of complement ( c2d ) is the most common hereditary complement deficiency . patients with c2 deficiency are frequently associated with an auto-immune disease process , in particular , systemic lupus erythematosus ( le ) - like syndrome and/or vasculitic syndrome or bacterial infections . c2d has been associated with the le subset of subacute cutaneous le ( scle ) , the presence of anti-ro ( ssa ) antibodies , and the human leukocyte antigen ( hla ) types a10 , b18 , dr2 . we describe the clinical , serologic and immunogenetic data in a patient with manifestations of sjogren 's syndrome who developed urticarial vasculitis and photosensitive annular scle which were effectively treated with oral dapsone . our case illustrates the dynamic nature of le . 
purulent pericarditis and cardiac tamponade caused by nocardia asteroides in mixed connective tissue disease . pericardial nocardiosis is extremely rare , but may affect especially immunocompromised hosts . we describe the first reported case of purulent pericarditis with cardiac tamponade as the initial presentation of systemic nocardiosis in a patient with mixed connective tissue disease . our case emphasizes the importance of identifying infectious causes of pericarditis in patients with connective tissue diseases . longterm survival was achieved with a combined medical and surgical approach . 
primary orchiectomy versus estrogen therapy in advanced prostatic cancer -- a randomized study : results after 7 to 10 years of followup . of 163 new consecutively diagnosed cases of advanced ( t3-4 m0 or t04m1 ) prostatic cancer 13 had contraindications for estrogen treatment , and the remainder were randomized to orchiectomy ( 76 ) or to estrogen treatment ( 74 ) , consisting of 150 micrograms ethinyl estradiol daily and 80 mg . polyestradiol monthly . during the followup period of 7 to 10 years disease progression was noted in 27 patients ( 36 % ) treated with estrogen and 39 ( 51 % ) orchiectomized patients . the free of progression survival rate was significantly better ( less than 0.05 ) among the estrogen treated patients but the over-all survival rates after orchiectomy and estrogen treatment were almost identical . a significantly higher frequency of cardiovascular side effects was noted in the estrogen group ( 23 cases ) compared to the orchiectomy group ( 4 cases ) . therefore , estrogen treatment in this form can not be recommended for the palliative treatment of prostate cancer . 
direct co2 laser " revascularization " of the myocardium . evidence of regional myocardial perfusion and contractile function after direct co2 laser myocardial revascularization ( dlr ) is lacking . we examined myocardial segment shortening , adenine nucleotide concentrations , and regional blood flow after dlr of the left anterior descending coronary artery ( lad ) distribution before and after its proximal ligation in seven anesthetized conditioned dogs . sonomicrometry assessed myocardial fiber shortening and radioactive microspheres were used to estimate baseline regional blood flows . cardiopulmonary bypass was followed by cardioplegia arrest . laser channels ( 1 mm diameter ) were made every 3 to 5 mm in the lad region with an 80 watt laser-sonics co2 unit . bypass was terminated , the lad occluded , and parameters reassessed . core samples of myocardium from the lased lad and control circumflex area were taken to assess adenine nucleotides . after occlusion , lad distribution blood flow and myocardial shortening were reduced to pre-lasting ischemic controls . adenine nucleotides were reduced in the lad region relative to the control cmx area . dlr can not be relied upon to acutely revascularize the ischemic myocardium . 
improvement in the diagnosis of abscesses associated with endocarditis by transesophageal echocardiography background . echocardiography is recognized as the method of choice for the noninvasive detection of valvular vegetations in patients with infective endocarditis , with transesophageal echocardiography being more accurate than transthoracic echocardiography . the diagnosis of associated abscesses by transthoracic echocardiography is difficult or even impossible in many cases , however , and it is not known whether transesophageal echocardiography is any better . methods . to determine the value of transesophageal echocardiography in the detection of abscesses associated with endocarditis , we studied prospectively by two-dimensional transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography 118 consecutive patients with infective endocarditis of 137 native or prosthetic valves that was documented during surgery or at autopsy . results . during surgery or at autopsy , 44 patients ( 37.3 percent ) had a total of 46 definite regions of abscess . abscesses were more frequent in aortic-valve endocarditis than in infections of other valves , and the infecting organism was more often staphylococcus ( 52.3 percent of cases ) in patients with abscesses than in those without abscesses ( 16.2 percent ) . the hospital mortality rate was 22.7 percent in patients with abscesses , as compared with 13.5 percent in patients without abscesses . whereas transthoracic echocardiography identified only 13 of the 46 areas of abscess , the transesophageal approach allowed the detection of 40 regions ( p less than 0.001 ) . sensitivity and specificity for the detection of abscesses associated with endocarditis were 28.3 and 98.6 percent , respectively , for transthoracic echocardiography and 87.0 and 94.6 percent for transesophageal echocardiography ; positive and negative predictive values were 92.9 and 68.9 percent , respectively , for the transthoracic approach and 90.9 and 92.1 percent for the transesophageal approach . variation between observers was 3.4 percent for transthoracic and 4.2 percent for transesophageal echocardiography . conclusions . the data indicate that transesophageal echocardiography leads to a significant improvement in the diagnosis of abscesses associated with endocarditis . the technique facilitates the identification of patients with endocarditis who have an increased risk of death and permits earlier treatment . 
late cardiac effects of doxorubicin therapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia in childhood background . cardiotoxicity is a recognized complication of doxorubicin therapy , but the long-term effects of doxorubicin are not well documented . we therefore assessed the cardiac status of 115 children who had been treated for acute lymphoblastic leukemia with doxorubicin 1 to 15 years earlier in whom the disease was in continuous remission . methods . eighteen patients received one dose of doxorubicin ( 45 mg per square meter of body-surface area ) , and 97 received multiple doses totaling 228 to 550 mg per square meter ( median , 360 ) . the median interval between the end of treatment and the cardiac evaluation was 6.4 years . our evaluation consisted of a history , 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic recording , exercise testing , and echocardiography . results . fifty-seven percent of the patients had abnormalities of left ventricular afterload ( measured as end-systolic wall stress ) or contractility ( measured as the stress-velocity index ) . the cumulative dose of doxorubicin was the most significant predictor of abnormal cardiac function ( p less than 0.002 ) . seventeen percent of patients who received one dose of doxorubicin had slightly elevated age-adjusted afterload , and none had decreased contractility . in contrast , 65 percent of patients who received at least 228 mg of doxorubicin per square meter had increased afterload ( 59 percent of patients ) , decreased contractility ( 23 percent ) , or both . increased afterload was due to reduced ventricular wall thickness , not to hypertension or ventricular dilatation . in multivariate analyses restricted to patients who received at least 228 mg of doxorubicin per square meter , the only significant predictive factors were a higher cumulative dose ( p = 0.01 ) , which predicted decreased contractility , and an age of less than four years at treatment ( p = 0.003 ) , which predicted increased afterload . afterload increased progressively in 24 of 34 patients evaluated serially ( 71 percent ) . reported symptoms correlated poorly with indexes of exercise tolerance or ventricular function . eleven patients had congestive heart failure within one year of treatment with doxorubicin ; five of them had recurrent heart failure 3.7 to 10.3 years after completing doxorubicin treatment , and two required heart transplantation . no patient had late heart failure as a new event . conclusions . doxorubicin therapy in childhood impairs myocardial growth in a dose-related fashion and results in a progressive increase in left ventricular afterload sometimes accompanied by reduced contractility . we hypothesize that the loss of myocytes during doxorubicin therapy in childhood might result in inadequate left ventricular mass and clinically important heart disease in later years . 
emergent aneurysm surgery without cerebral angiography for the comatose patient neurologically based clinical grading scales offer excellent prognostic information for the patient suffering diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) . these grading scales are less applicable to patients with life-threatening intraparenchymal hematomas after aneurysmal rupture . during the last 3 years , four patients in a comatose state with brain stem compression syndromes documented by computed tomographic scans have undergone emergent operation in our neurosurgical service . each patient was so critically ill that we believed it unwise to delay craniotomy for diagnostic angiography . the average delay from the onset of coma to skin incision was 3.02 hours ( range , 1.67-6 .5 hours ) , and the average delay from arrival in our unit until skin incision was 1.8 hours ( range , 0.75-2 .5 hours ) . the condition of two arousable patients deteriorated while they were in the emergency room , presumably from new bleeding . each patient underwent craniotomy for hematoma evacuation , definitive aneurysm clipping , and lobectomy for decompression . temporary clipping was employed in one patient , and intraoperative rupture occurred in two others . three patients survived but retain significant disability . emergent craniotomy with empiric exploration of appropriate subarachnoid cisterns after hematoma decompression may be life-saving in some cases . the delay imposed for diagnostic angiography may be avoided in attempts to save vital minutes of severe brain stem compression . 
spinal cord compression from a thoracic paraganglioma : case report . a 34-year-old man with a 4-month history of midthoracic back pain sought treatment for a recent onset of lower extremity paresthesia and stiffness . a myelogram and computed tomographic myelogram disclosed an extradural block at the level of the 8th thoracic vertebral body with involvement of the pedicles , lamina , and spinous process . a posterior decompression of the spinal cord with subtotal resection of a highly vascular tumor was performed . the tumor was identified as a paraganglioma . in a second stage , the remainder of the tumor was embolized preoperatively , and gross total excision and sequential stabilization of the spine with a luque rectangle and sublaminar wires were performed . the patient has been symptom free and without signs of a recurrence in the spine for over 13 months . a large abdominal paraganglioma was recently resected from its probable origin from the adventitia of the abdominal aorta . 
exposure of the intracavernous carotid artery in aneurysm surgery . the pterional intradural approach was used in five cases of large and giant carotid-ophthalmic aneurysms and in two cases of intracavernous aneurysms that arose from the anterior siphon knee in the cavernous sinus ( cs ) and extended into the carotid cistern . in four cases of large carotid-ophthalmic aneurysms removal of the anterior clinoid process and the roof of the optic canal gave easy access to the pericarotid ring . the anteromedial part of the pericarotid ring was dissected to expose the extradural portion of the internal carotid artery ( ica ) proximal to the neck and to make enough room between the wall of the cs and the extradural portion of the ica , thus allowing easy clipping of the neck . in one case of a giant carotid-ophthalmic aneurysm extending into the cs with an extradural origin of the ophthalmic artery and in two cases of an intracavernous aneurysm arising from the siphon knee , neck clipping was performed by opening the lateral wall and roof of the cs after removal of the optic strut . the opening of the lateral wall anterior to the 3rd nerve facilitated wide exposure of the anterior siphon knee . the horizontal portion of the intracavernous ica as well as the whole aspect of the aneurysm could be exposed as a result of the extended opening of the cavernous roof anterior to the posterior clinoid process . successful operative results were obtained in all seven patients . a visual field detect as an operative complication was noted in one patient . no disturbance of ocular movements was noted . 
monitoring of spinal cord stimulation evoked potentials during thoracoabdominal aneurysm surgery . repair of a thoracoabdominal aneurysm involves a significant risk of ischemic injury to the spinal cord . standard monitoring of somatosensory evoked potentials , which relies upon peripheral nerve stimulation , becomes nonspecific and insensitive during this surgery when aortic cross-clamping produces lower extremity ischemia causing a peripheral conduction block . techniques for the insertion of percutaneous epidural electrodes , developed originally for pain management , have been adapted to this setting to permit direct stimulation of the spinal cord for intraoperative monitoring of evoked potentials . the clinical outcome in patients monitored by this technique has been consistent with evoked potential findings . 
grinspan 's syndrome : a drug-induced phenomenon ? three cases of apparently drug-induced grinspan 's syndrome involving the triad of oral lichen planus , diabetes mellitus , and hypertension are reported . because drug therapy for diabetes mellitus and hypertension is capable of producing lichenoid reactions of the oral mucosa , the question arises as to whether grinspan 's syndrome is an iatrogenically induced syndrome . 
presentation and management of an acute caffeine overdose . a one-year-old white female ingested approximately two to three grams of caffeine ( 200-300 mg/kg ) . the patient survived the ingestion with a maximum caffeine concentration of 385 micrograms/ml four hours postingestion . the child developed ventricular arrhythmias , seizures , metabolic disturbances , and severe pulmonary edema . she survived without apparent long-term sequelae despite having reached a serum caffeine concentration that is the second highest reported level in a survivor . 
pathogenesis of ischemic necrosis in random-pattern skin flaps induced by long-term low-dose nicotine treatment in the rat . the objectives of the present experiments were to study the effects of long-term low-dose nicotine treatment on skin hemodynamics , viability , and microvascular morphology in 4 x 10 cm dorsally based acute random-pattern skin flaps in the rat . in addition , the reversibility of the nicotine-induced detrimental effects on skin-flap viability following cessation of nicotine treatment also was investigated . low-dose nicotine ( 0.6 mg/kg ) administered twice daily and subcutaneously for 24 weeks significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) decreased skin-flap capillary blood flow , distal perfusion , and length and area of skin viability compared with the saline-treated control ( n = 15 ) . however , these same parameters in rats ( n = 15 ) whose nicotine treatment had been withheld for 2 weeks prior to skin-flap surgery were not significantly different from the control , thus indicating that the detrimental effects of this long-term , low-dose nicotine treatment were reversible . the mean plasma level of nicotine in the nicotine-treated rats was 8.1 + / - 0.4 micrograms/dl and was within the range of plasma nicotine levels reported for human heavy cigarette smokers . light and electron microscopic studies did not show evidence of histologic damage to the cutaneous microvasculature in acute random-pattern skin flaps and samples of normal ( nonoperated ) skin in nicotine-treated rats . it is concluded that long-term plasma levels of nicotine similar to those of heavy cigarette smokers are detrimental to the capillary blood flow and viability of random-pattern skin flaps in the rat . these deleterious effects can be avoided if skin flaps are raised 2 weeks after cessation of nicotine treatment . this low-dose nicotine treatment does not cause histologic damage to the microvasculature . other pathogenic mechanisms of nicotine-induced skin flap ischemia are discussed . 
free-tissue transfers for limb salvage utilizing in situ saphenous vein bypass conduit as the inflow . using vein grafts to bypass sclerotic and occluded arterial segments is a well-established technique in vascular surgery . for infrapopliteal bypass , autogenous veins have better patency rates than synthetic grafts . although not resolved , in situ bypasses seem to be better than reversed bypasses , especially for " far away " segments . although the etiology is not understood , it is a well-known clinical finding that sclerosis affects arteries more than the veins and , as a whole , is more advanced in lower extremities compared with the trunk and upper extremities . our experience with eight patients in whom critical soft-tissue defects were covered with free-tissue transfers in severely compromised lower extremities utilizing the in situ saphenous vein bypass as the inflow is presented . simultaneous bypass and free-tissue transfers were performed in seven and delayed free-tissue transfer was done in one . follow-up ranged from 6 months to 3 years . to date , two patients underwent amputations . five patients are able to maintain bipedal ambulation . one patient is wheelchair-bound with intact lower extremities . in well-selected patients , this procedure may offer an alternative treatment to amputation . however , because of the complexity of these combined procedures , we strongly urge careful patient selection . 
antibodies directed against neutrophils ( c-anca and p-anca ) are of distinct diagnostic value in systemic vasculitis . in a prospective study , sera from over 700 patients with suspected vasculitis , including over 200 patients undergoing renal biopsy , were examined for antibodies to neutrophil cytoplasmic antigen ( anca ) . an indirect immunofluorescence assay on ethanol fixed human neutrophils identified two types of autoantibody : c-anca , which produces diffuse cytoplasmic staining and p-anca , which produces an artefactual nuclear/perinuclear staining pattern . the diagnosis of patients in whom anca of either form was found was established following case note review according to defined diagnostic criteria . forty of 45 patients whose sera contained c-anca at a titre of greater than or equal to 1/40 satisfied the diagnostic criteria for wegener 's granulomatosis or microscopic polyarteritis . twelve of 30 patients with p-anca at a titre of greater than or equal to 1/40 were also classified as having one of these disorders . seventeen of the remaining 18 patients had immune-mediated disorders with deep organ damage . of 47 anca-positive patients who underwent renal biopsy , 21 had glomerulonephritis associated with wegener 's glomerulonephritis and a further 22 had a necrotizing or crescentic glomerulonephritis . ethanol fixation is important for discrimination of c-anca and p-anca . c-anca are highly specific for wegener 's granulomatosis and microscopic polyarteritis . in patients undergoing renal biopsy , the presence of these antibodies is highly specific for a necrotizing or crescentic glomerulonephritis . 
radiographic manifestations of anomalies of the lung . congenital nonvascular anomalies of the lung can be subdivided into those affecting the bronchial tree and those affecting parenchymal abnormalities . embryologic development of the lung is briefly reviewed to facilitate an understanding of developmental pulmonary anomalies . clinical , radiographic , and therapeutic aspects of these anomalies are discussed . 
effect of left ventricular aneurysm on risk of sudden and nonsudden cardiac death . although left ventricular ( lv ) aneurysm is associated with increased mortality , its independent prognostic significance is controversial . to determine the effect of lv aneurysm on risk , 121 patients with healed myocardial infarction ( mi ) , 55 manifesting akinesia on ventriculography ( mi group ) and 66 with lv aneurysm characterized by diastolic deformity ( eccentricity ) and systolic dyskinesia ( lv aneurysm group ) were studied . at a mean follow-up of 5.7 years , there were 32 cardiac deaths ( 12 mi vs 20 lv aneurysm ) , including 9 sudden deaths ( 1 mi vs 8 lv aneurysm ) . multivariate analysis revealed decreasing ejection fraction to be the best predictor of total cardiac death , and revascularization to be protective . nonsudden cardiac death was predicted by ejection fraction , absence of revascularization and right coronary artery disease , whereas sudden cardiac death was predicted by lv aneurysm and the frequency of ventricular ectopic complexes on holter monitoring . in the mi group , ejection fraction was the only significant predictor of total cardiac death and nonsudden cardiac death . in the lv aneurysm group , total cardiac death , as well as nonsudden cardiac death , were predicted by ejection fraction , ventricular tachycardia and right coronary artery disease , whereas ventricular tachycardia predicted sudden cardiac death . it is concluded that the risk profile for total cardiac death differs between lv aneurysm and mi patients , and that lv aneurysm constitutes an independent predictor of late sudden cardiac death after mi . moreover , on a substrate of lv aneurysm , the risk factors for sudden cardiac death and nonsudden cardiac death differ , with ventricular tachycardia being the sole predictor of sudden cardiac death . furthermore , holter monitoring is valuable in identifying patients at persistent risk of sudden cardiac death . 
angiographic morphology in unstable angina and its relation to transient myocardial ischemia and hospital outcome . complex stenosis morphology frequently occurs in patients with unstable angina pectoris . however , its relation to transient myocardial ischemia and hospital outcome has not been ascertained . to address this issue , 88 patients with significant ( greater than or equal to 50 % ) coronary artery disease presenting with angina -- new onset ( n = 38 ) , worsening ( n = 20 ) or at rest ( n = 30 ) - were studied . patients with left main artery disease , normal coronary arteries or occlusion of the ischemia-related arteries were not included in the study . continuous electrocardiographic recordings were obtained during the first 24 hours . angiography was performed within 1 week from admission . complex morphology was defined as any stenosis with irregular borders , overhanging edges or intracoronary thrombus . only data referring to the in-hospital outcome were considered in this study . adverse end points were sudden death , myocardial infarction and emergency revascularization . analysis of the angiograms revealed a complex morphology in 58 patients ( group 1 ) . the remaining 30 patients served as control subjects ( group 2 ) . thirty-two of the 58 group 1 patients had an unfavorable clinical outcome ( positive predictive value , 55 % ) . a similar outcome occurred in only 2 of the 30 group 2 patients ( negative predictive value , 93 % ) . of the 32 group 1 patients who had an unfavorable clinical outcome , 29 had a cumulative duration of transient myocardial ischemia of greater than or equal to 60 minutes per 24 hours . a similar duration of ischemia , however , was observed in another 6 group 1 and in 8 group 2 patients . 
anginal symptoms without ischemic electrocardiographic changes during ambulatory monitoring in men with coronary artery disease . episodes of angina pectoris without electrocardiographic ( ecg ) signs of myocardial ischemia during 24-hour ambulatory monitoring were studied in 128 patients with a history of stable angina , angiographically proven coronary artery disease and positive exercise test results . in all , 341 episodes of ischemic ecg changes ( st-segment depression greater than 1 mm for greater than 1 minute ) and 190 episodes of angina pectoris were observed : 86 episodes consisted of both ecg changes and angina pectoris , 255 episodes consisted only of ecg changes , and 104 episodes only of angina pectoris . duration and magnitude of st-segment deviation and heart rate at the onset of ischemia were similar in the 86 symptomatic and the 255 asymptomatic episodes with ecg changes . the 104 episodes of angina pectoris without ecg changes were detected in 44 patients ( 34 % ) ( group a ) ; 29 of them had only episodes with angina pectoris and 15 patients had both -- episodes of angina pectoris with and without ecg changes . in 84 patients ( 66 % ) ( group b ) angina pectoris without ecg changes was not observed ; all episodes were accompanied by ischemic ecg changes in these patients . no differences in the angiographic extent of coronary artery disease and in exercise test data were seen in both groups a and b ; however , maximal st-segment depression during exercise testing was significantly greater in group b than in group a patients ( 2.4 + / - 0.8 mm vs 1.9 + / - 0.9 mm ; p less than 0.05 ) . 
dependence of doppler echocardiographic transmitral early peak velocity on left ventricular systolic function in coronary artery disease . the influence of systolic function on pulsed doppler echocardiographic transmitral flow velocity patterns was assessed before and after postextrasystolic ( pes ) potentiation in 12 normal subjects ( control group ) and in 25 patients with previous healed myocardial infarction ( mi ) group . simultaneous high-fidelity left ventricular pressure measurements were performed in all patients . a programmed single-coupled right ventricular extrasystole was induced during echocardiographic and subsequent cineangiocardiographic recordings . adequate angiograms for volumetric analysis in both baseline and pes beats were obtained in 23 patients ( 7 in the control group and 16 in the mi group ) . pes potentiation of contraction was more pronounced in the mi group than in the control group . pes changes in ejection fraction , stroke volume and end-systolic volume were significantly greater in the mi group than in the control group ( 11 vs 5 % , p less than 0.005 ; 15 vs 5 ml/m2 , p less than 0.005 ; and -13 vs -4 ml/m2 , p less than 0.01 , respectively ) . in contrast , pes potentiation prolonged the time constants of left ventricular pressure decline derived from exponential curve fits with a zero ( tw ) and non-zero ( tb ) asymptote pressure in the mi group to the same extent as in the control group ( 4 vs 5 ms , difference not significant [ ns ] , and 9 vs 11 ms , ns , respectively ) . in the pes beat , peak e velocity remained unaltered ( 48 vs 49 cm/s , ns ) in the control group , whereas it increased significantly ( p less than 0.0001 ) from 47 to 51 cm/s in the mi group . 
relation of serum lipoprotein cholesterol levels to presence and severity of angiographic coronary artery disease . to assess the relation of lipid levels to angiographic coronary artery disease ( cad ) , lipid profiles were obtained on 125 men and 72 women undergoing diagnostic coronary angiography . cad , defined as greater than or equal to 25 % diameter narrowing in a major coronary artery , was present in 106 men ( 85 % ) and 54 women ( 75 % ) . multiple regression analyses revealed that only high-density lipoprotein ( hdl ) cholesterol level in men , and age and total/hdl cholesterol ratio in women , were independently associated with the presence of cad after adjustment for other risk factors . hdl cholesterol level and age were significantly correlated with both extent ( number of diseased vessels ) and severity ( percent maximum stenosis ) of cad in men . in women , age was the only independent variable related to severity , whereas age and total/hdl cholesterol ratio were related to extent . of 71 patients with total cholesterol less than 200 mg/dl , 79 % had cad . with multiple regression analyses , hdl cholesterol was the only variable independently related to the presence and severity of cad in these patients after adjustment for age and gender ; extent was significantly associated with age and male gender , and was unrelated to any of the lipid parameters . with use of multiple logistic and linear regression analyses of the group of 197 patients , hdl cholesterol was the most powerful independent variable associated with the presence and severity of cad after adjustment for age and gender . hdl cholesterol was also an independent predictor of extent . age was independently associated with each of the end points examined , and was the variable most significantly related to extent . these data add to the growing body of information demonstrating an important association between hdl and cad . 
edge detection versus densitometry for assessing coronary stenting quantitatively . the optimal method used to analyze quantitatively the immediate angiographic results of coronary stenting in the coronary arteries has not been studied . accordingly , minimal luminal cross-sectional area was determined by 2 methods , edge detection and densitometry , in 19 patients who underwent percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) and then coronary stent implantation for symptomatic coronary stenoses . the correlation coefficient , 0.73 before angioplasty , decreased to 0.59 after coronary angioplasty and then increased to 0.83 after stent implantation . the mean differences between edge detection and densitometric determinations of minimal luminal cross-sectional area were 0.31 + / - 0.51 mm2 before ptca , -0.38 + / - 1.22 mm2 after angioplasty and 0.35 + / - 0.79 mm2 after coronary stenting . it is concluded that , although the correlation and variability in the measurement of minimal luminal cross-sectional area between edge detection and densitometry deteriorate after ptca , they are improved after stenting , probably because of smoothing of the vessel contours by the stent and remodeling of the stented segment into a more circular configuration . therefore , in the stented coronary artery , edge detection and densitometry are equally acceptable methods of analysis . 
frequency of success and complications of coronary angioplasty of a stenosis at the ostium of a branch vessel . the authors of this study hypothesized that percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of a stenosis at the ostium of a branch vessel , whether isolated or associated with a bifurcation stenosis , was associated with reduced procedural success and increased in-hospital complications . one hundred six patients with 119 ostial branch stenoses were compared with 1,168 patients who underwent angioplasty of nonostial branch stenoses . an ostial branch stenosis was defined as a stenosis in the proximal 3 mm of a major branch vessel ( diagonal [ n = 58 ] , posterior descending [ n = 21 ] , obtuse marginal [ n = 34 ] and intermediate [ n = 6 ] ) . the ostial branch stenosis was isolated in 61 % of the patients and associated with a bifurcation stenosis in 39 % . despite a balloon to artery ratio of 1.05:1 , angiographic success was 74 % of ostial branch stenoses versus 91 % of nonostial stenoses ( p less than 0.01 ) . furthermore , angioplasty of ostial branch stenoses resulted in a complication rate of 13 versus 5 % for angioplasty of nonostial branch stenoses ( p less than 0.01 ) . therefore , angioplasty of ostial branch stenoses results in decreased procedural success and significant residual stenosis despite adequate balloon sizing , suggesting arterial elastic recoil and a significant increase in complications . 
doppler echocardiographic comparison of the carpentier and duran anuloplasty rings versus no ring after mitral valve repair for mitral regurgitation . to compare the hemodynamic results of different anuloplasty techniques of primary valve repair for mitral regurgitation , 122 patients were prospectively studied with doppler echocardiograms 5 to 10 days after operation . seventy-seven patients had mitral valve prolapse , 27 had coronary artery disease , 13 patients had rheumatic mitral valve lesions and 5 patients had infective endocarditis . forty-eight patients received the flexible duran ring , 46 received the more rigid carpentier ring and 28 patients received no ring . doppler echocardiography demonstrated a significant decrease in mitral valve area estimated by the pressure half-time method in patients who received either a carpentier ( 2.6 + / - 0.8 cm2 ) or duran ring ( 2.8 + / - 0.8 cm2 ) when compared with patients who received no ring ( 3.2 + / - 0.7 cm2 ) ( p = 0.01 ) . no significant differences were observed for peak transmitral diastolic velocity , peak transmitral diastolic gradient , or the grade of mitral regurgitation by color flow doppler mapping between patients with and without rings . the etiology of mitral disease and concomitant surgical procedures accompanying mitral valve repair did not significantly influence mitral valve area , peak velocity or peak gradient . these data suggest that carpentier and duran rings decrease the hemodynamic mitral valve area ; however , the decrease in valve area is small and not associated with a clinically important increase in transvalvular gradient . 
mapping of the locus for x-linked cardioskeletal myopathy with neutropenia and abnormal mitochondria ( barth syndrome ) to xq28 . x-linked cardioskeletal myopathy with neutropenia and abnormal mitochondria is clinically characterized by congenital dilated cardiomyopathy , skeletal myopathy , recurrent bacterial infections , and growth retardation . we analyzed linkage between the disease locus and x-chromosomal markers in a family with seven carriers , four patients , and eight unaffected sons of carriers . highest lod scores obtained by two-point linkage analysis were 2.70 for st14 .1 ( dxs52 , taqi ) at a recombination fraction of zero and 2.53 for cpx67 ( dxs134 ) at a recombination fraction of zero . multipoint linkage analysis resulted in a maximum lod score of 5.24 at the position of st35 .691 ( dxs305 ) . the most distal recombination detected in this family was located between the markers ii-10 ( dxs466 ) and dx13 ( dxs15 ) . these data indicate the location of the mutated gene at xq28 . 
thermolabile methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase : an inherited risk factor for coronary artery disease . severe methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase ( mthfr ) deficiency with less than 2 % of normal enzyme activity is characterized by neurological abnormalities , atherosclerotic changes , and thromboembolism . we have discovered a " new " variant of mthfr deficiency which is characterized by the absence of neurological abnormalities , an enzyme activity of about 50 % of the normal value , and distinctive thermolability under specific conditions of heat inactivation . in this study , lymphocyte mthfr specific activities in the thermolabile variant and control groups were 5.58 + / - 0.91 and 10.33 + / - 2.89 nmol formaldehyde formed/mg protein/h , respectively . the difference was significant ( p less than .01 ) . however , there was overlap among the individual values from the two groups . on the other hand , residual mthfr activity after heat inactivation was 11.2 + / - 1.43 % in the thermolabile variant and 36.3 + / - 5.18 % in the controls . there was no overlap . enzyme studies in 10 subjects with thermolabile mthfr and their family members support the hypothesis that thermolabile mthfr is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait . to elucidate the association of thermolabile mthfr with the development of coronary artery disease , we determined the thermostability of lymphocyte mthfr in 212 patients with proven coronary artery disease and in 202 controls without clinical evidence of atherosclerotic vascular disease . thermolabile mthfr was found in 36 ( 17.0 % ) cardiac patients and 10 ( 5.0 % ) controls . the difference in incidence between the two groups was statistically significant ( p less than .01 ) . the average age at onset of clinical coronary artery disease in 36 patients with thermolabile mthfr was 57.3 + / - 7.6 years ( 35-72 years ) . the mean total plasma homocysteine concentration in patients with thermolabile mthfr was 13.19 + / - 5.32 nmol/ml and was significantly different from the normal mean of 8.50 + / - 2.80 nmol/ml ( p less than .05 ) . there was no association between thermolabile mthfr and other major risk factors . we conclude that thermolabile mthfr is a variant ( s ) of mthfr deficiency which is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait . in addition , it is positively associated with the development of coronary artery disease . determination of in vitro thermostability of lymphocyte mthfr is a reliable method for identifying subjects with this abnormality . 
the spectrum of portal vein thrombosis in liver transplantation . thrombosis of the portal vein with or without patency of its tributaries used to be a contraindication to orthotopic liver transplantation ( oltx ) until quite recently . rapid progress in the surgical technique of oltx in the last few years has demonstrated that most patients with portal vein thrombosis can be safely and successfully transplanted . presented here is a series of 34 patients with portal vein thrombosis transplanted at the university of pittsburgh since 1984 . the various techniques used to treat various forms of thrombosis are described . the survival rate for this series was 67.6 % ( 23 of 34 patients ) . survival was best for patients who underwent phlebothrombectomy or placement of a jump graft from the superior mesenteric vein . the survival rate also correlated with the amount of blood required for transfusion during surgery . overall it is concluded that a vast majority of the patients with thrombosis of the portal system can be technically transplanted and that their survival rate is comparable to that of patients with patent portal vein . 
fibrous skeleton and ventricular outflow tracts in double-outlet right ventricle . twenty-four hearts in which both great arteries arose from the right ventricle were studied to establish variations present within the fibrous skeleton and infundibular morphologies . variations were also noted in the location of the ventricular septal defect and measurements were obtained of the outlet septum and the circumferences of the arterial valves . completely muscular subarterial infundibulums were present in only 9 ( 37.5 % ) of the hearts , with varying degrees of fibrous continuity between the leaflets of the arterial and atrioventricular valves in the remainder . the aorta was rightward and posterior in 12 ( 50 % ) of the hearts , and subaortic and subpulmonary ventricular septal defects were present in equal numbers in this group . no subaortic defects were present when the aorta was side-by-side and right-sided . no subpulmonary defects were present in hearts with a posterior aorta . the mean ratio of 0.91 + / - 0.36 for the subpulmonary to subaortic length of the outlet septum was significantly less than the value of 1.54 + / - 0.41 noted previously in hearts with tetralogy of fallot ( p less than 0.001 ) . 
progress of patients with pulmonary atresia after systemic to pulmonary arterial shunts . between february 1980 and june 1987 , 42 shunts were placed in 39 infants with pulmonary atresia : 33 were modified blalock-taussig shunts with polytetrafluoroethylene ( ptfe ) and 9 were classic blalock-taussig shunts . there were four hospital deaths not related to the shunts . the remaining 35 patients were followed up for 1.6 months to 6.3 years ( mean , 24.7 + / - 18 months ) . repeat cineangiocardiographic studies revealed stenosis or distortion of the pulmonary arteries related to the site of the shunt in 11/22 patients ( 50 % ) with ptfe shunts and in 1/6 ( 17 % ) with classic blalock-taussig shunts ; the stenosis was severe in only 1 patient . mean increase in the pulmonary arterial index in the group with classic blalock-taussig shunts was 117 + / - 52 mm2/m2 ( not significant ) and in the group with ptfe shunts , 158 + / - 21 mm2/m2 ( p less than 0.001 ) . late shunt occlusion occurred in 1 patient 23 months postoperatively . thereafter , shunt patency rate remained at 94 % + / - 6 % . at the end of 1 year 81 % + / - 7 % of patients were judged to have adequate palliation , but between 2 and 3 years , only 60 % + / - 10 % . univariate analysis showed that after 2 years the ranking order for successful palliation was classic blalock-taussig , 5-mm ptfe , and 4-mm ptfe shunts , but differences did not achieve statistical significance . 
superiority of retrograde cardioplegia after acute coronary occlusion . because antegrade cardioplegia may limit the distribution of cardioplegia beyond a coronary occlusion , this study was undertaken to determine whether retrograde coronary sinus cardioplegia provides superior myocardial protection during revascularization of an acute coronary occlusion . in 20 adult pigs , the second and third diagonal branches were occluded with a snare for 1 1/2 hours . animals were then placed on cardiopulmonary bypass and underwent 30 minutes of ischemic arrest with multidose , potassium , crystalloid cardioplegia . in 10 animals , the cardioplegia was given antegrade through the aortic root , whereas in 10 others , it was given retrograde through the coronary sinus . after the arrest period , the coronary snares were released and all hearts were reperfused for 3 hours . postischemic damage in the myocardium beyond the occlusions was assessed by wall motion scores using two-dimensional echocardiography ( 4 = normal to -1 = dyskinesia ) , the change in myocardial ph from preischemia , and the area of necrosis/area of risk ( histochemical staining ) . hearts protected with retrograde coronary sinus cardioplegia had less tissue acidosis ( change in ph = 0.08 + / - 0.03 versus 0.41 + / - 0.13 ; p less than 0.05 ) , higher wall motion scores ( 2.0 + / - 0.6 versus 1.3 + / - 0.3 ; not significant ) , and less myocardial necrosis ( 43.4 % + / - 3.6 % versus 73.3 % + / - 3.5 % ; p less than 0.0001 ) . we conclude that retrograde coronary sinus cardioplegia provides more optimal myocardial protection than is possible with antegrade cardioplegia after revascularization of an acute coronary occlusion . 
efficacy of coronary sinus cardioplegia in patients with complete coronary artery occlusions . myocardial areas distal to complete coronary artery occlusions are poorly protected by antegrade cardioplegia . we assessed the effects of coronary sinus cardioplegia in 30 patients undergoing bypass operations and at high risk of cardioplegic maldistribution because of the following anatomical patterns of coronary artery disease : critical ( greater than or equal to 50 % ) stenosis of the left main trunk with total occlusion of the right coronary artery ( 16 patients ) or critical ( greater than or equal to 70 % ) stenosis of the right coronary artery with total occlusion of the left anterior descending ( 11 patients ) or circumflex artery ( 3 patients ) . after induction of arrest through the aorta , coronary sinus cardioplegia was given intermittently during the cross-clamp period at a flow rate of 100 ml/min . intraoperatively , occluded arteries were consistently found to be filled with the retrogradely infused solution . one patient died early postoperatively of low cardiac output and a second patient died later during his hospital stay , presumably of an arrhythmia . at autopsy , none of them had pathological evidence of inadequate myocardial protection . one patient sustained a myocardial infarction and 3 others required inotropes for more than 24 hours postoperatively . postoperative values for right and left stroke volume indices were not significantly different from prebypass levels . overall , these results are consistent with the occurrence of limited intraoperative ischemic damage and , by inference , suggest the efficacy of the coronary sinus route in preserving myocardial areas supplied by completely occluded coronary arteries and , hence , in jeopardy of inadequate cardioplegia delivery . 
replacement of the aortic valve or root with a pulmonary autograft in children . between january 1967 and december 1988 , 34 patients ranging in age from 3 to 18 years ( mean , 14 + / - 3.6 years ) underwent replacement of the aortic valve or root with their own pulmonary valve . the indication for operation was left ventricular outflow obstruction in 16 patients ( 47 % ) , aortic regurgitation in 14 ( 41 % ) , mixed aortic valve disease in 3 ( 9 % ) , and failure of a previously implanted aortic homograft in 1 ( 3 % ) . there were four early deaths , all before 1971 , giving a hospital mortality of 11.8 % ( 70 % confidence interval , 6 % to 20 % ) . surviving patients have been followed up a cumulative total of 214 patient-years , the longest period of observation being 16 years 8 months . late mortality was 13.3 % ( 70 % confidence interval , 7 % to 23 % ) , and 4 other patients required removal of the pulmonary autograft for endocarditis . actuarial rates at 16 years were 74 % + / - 11 % for freedom from reoperation on the left ventricular outflow tract , 80 % + / - 10 % for freedom from reoperation on the right ventricular outflow tract , and 77 % + / - 10 % for late survival . there was no instance of primary structural degeneration in the pulmonary autograft , and all surviving patients were in new york heart association functional class i without medication . this experience demonstrates that the pulmonary autograft can achieve good early and medium-term results in young patients . should growth potential be realized , it might constitute the ideal biological valve for the left ventricular outflow in children . 
failure of hancock pericardial xenografts : is prophylactic bioprosthetic replacement justified ? the incidence of major valve-related complications was evaluated in a series of patients in whom the hancock pericardial xenograft was used for aortic ( avr ; n = 84 ) , mitral ( mvr ; n = 17 ) and mitral-aortic ( mavr ; n = 13 ) valve replacement . at 7 years actuarial survival is 66 % + / - 8 % after avr , 64 % + / - 13 % after mvr , and 41 % + / - 15 % after mavr , whereas actuarial freedom from valve-related death is 79 % + / - 7 % after avr , 78 % + / - 13 % after mvr , and 81 % + / - 12 % after mavr . actuarial freedom from thromboemboli and anticoagulant-related hemorrhage at 7 years is 93 % + / - 4 % and 98 % + / - 2 % after avr and 83 % + / - 10 % and 88 % + / - 11 % after mvr ; no such complications occurred after mavr . structural valve deterioration determined at reoperation , at autopsy , or by clinical investigation was observed in 34 patients with avr ( 10.0 + / - 0.2 % / patient-year ) , in 10 with mvr ( 10.6 + / - 3.3 % / patient-year ) , and in 9 with mavr ( 16.6 + / - 5.5 % / patient-year ) . after avr , 19 patients underwent reoperation and 2 died before reoperation ; 4 patients with mvr underwent reoperation , and 7 patients with mavr underwent reoperation and 1 died before reoperation . seventy-eight percent of the current survivors ( 13 patients with avr , 7 with mvr , and 1 with mavr ) have clinical evidence of valve failure . at 7 years actuarial freedom from structural deterioration of the hancock pericardial xenograft is 25 % + / - 7 % after avr , 29 % + / - 14 % after mvr , and 0 % after mavr . 
management of aortic insufficiency in chronic aortic dissection . from january 1980 to december 1988 , 44 patients with chronic aortic dissection and aortic insufficiency underwent operation . this group of patients was analyzed to evaluate the outcome of those in whom the aortic valve was preserved compared with those having valve replacement . the overall preoperative characteristics of the two groups were similar except for the incidence of marfan 's syndrome . valve replacement was the elected procedure in patients with valve degeneration or annuloaortic ectasia . in patients with leaflet prolapse with or without an enlarged annulus , a plastic procedure was used . in 48 % of the patients , it was possible to preserve the valve . there were five hospital deaths ( 11 % ) : three were due to low-output syndrome , one was due to bleeding , and one was due to neurological complications . there were two late deaths ( 5 % ) . follow-up of the 37 surviving patients ranged from 2 to 108 months ( mean follow-up , 18 months ) . seventy-eight percent of the survivors were in functional class i and the others were in class ii . two patients in whom the aortic valve was preserved had mild aortic insufficiency . three patients with bioprostheses underwent reoperation because of prosthetic valve dysfunction . one patient who had aortoplasty and an aortic valve plastic procedure was seen with redissection and aortic insufficiency after 60 months and was reoperated on using the bentall technique . the actuarial survival curves showed that patients who underwent valvoplasty had higher , but not significantly higher , survival rates than the valve replacement patients . 
postcardiotomy mechanical circulatory support in the elderly . the role of mechanical circulatory support after cardiac operations in elderly patients is not clearly established . between november 1985 and july 1989 , 18 patients 65 years of age or older ( mean age , 71 years ; range , 65 to 82 years ) were treated after cardiotomy with a centrifugal vortex or pneumatic mechanical ventricular assist device . this group comprised 1.9 % of the 926 patients 65 years of age or older undergoing cardiac surgical procedures and 69 % of the 26 patients requiring postcardiotomy support during this interval . before institution of mechanical support , all patients were receiving maximal inotropic support and 16 patients had intraaortic balloon pumps inserted . univentricular support was used in 9 patients ( 6 left , 3 right ) and biventricular support in 9 patients . the mean duration of support was 45 hours ( range , 8 to 118 hours ) . twelve patients ( 67 % ) were successfully weaned , 8 ( 44 % ) were discharged from the hospital , and 6 ( 33 % ) remain alive 11 to 31 months postoperatively . four of the 6 survivors are in new york heart association class i , 1 is in class ii , and 1 is in class iv . the combined registry for ventricular assist device support has recently reported an overall survival rate of 12 % in patients 65 to 70 years of age and 6 % in those older than 70 years . our results are comparable with those reported for younger patients and justify the use of postcardiotomy ventricular assist device support in the elderly . 
hemodynamic effects of lobar pulmonary artery occlusion in a porcine sepsis model . we induced severe pulmonary hypertension and acute lung injury in 6 pigs by pseudomonas aeruginosa infusion . we studied the effect of pulmonary artery catheter inflation of a pulmonary artery catheter balloon in the left lower lobar pulmonary artery was accompanied by a significant ( p less than 0.05 , paired t test ) increase in pulmonary artery pressure , a decrease in left atrial pressure , a decrease in cardiac output , and a decrease in mean arterial pressure . no significant changes occurred when the catheter was advanced into the wedged position without balloon inflation . balloon inflation had no significant effect on these variables before bacterial infusion . we conclude that with sufficiently severe pulmonary hypertension in association with diffuse lung injury , lobar pulmonary artery occlusion may cause alterations in cardiac output and left atrial pressure . this may confuse interpretation of pulmonary artery catheter measurements . 
reoperation for persistent outflow obstruction in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . this study compares results of a second left ventricular myotomy and myectomy ( m + m ) with those of mitral valve replacement ( mvr ) as reoperative procedures for persistent left ventricular outflow obstruction after m + m in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . comparison of the second m + m group ( n = 12 ) with the mvr group ( n = 11 ) disclosed significant difference ( p less than 0.05 ) in mean age at the initial operation ( 29 + / - 11 years versus 40 + / - 8 years ) , interval between operations ( 46 + / - 57 months versus 18 + / - 13 months ) , and age at reoperation ( 33 + / - 10 years versus 42 + / - 8 years ) ; and insignificant differences in mean preoperative functional class , cardiac index , left ventricular outflow gradients at rest or with provocation , and hospital mortality at reoperation ( 2/12 versus 1/11 ) . at 6 months after reoperation , comparison of results of a second m + m with mvr showed that mean functional class , cardiac index , and left ventricular outflow gradient at rest were similarly improved , but the outflow gradient with provocation was significantly higher in the second m + m group ( 57 + / - 44 mm hg versus 14 + / - 9 mm hg , p less than 0.05 ) . total follow-up was 108 patient-years ( 100 % complete ) with an average of 5.9 years per patient in the second m + m group and 3.4 years per patient in the mvr group . actuarial survival , including hospital mortality , at 3 and 5 years was 83 % and 76 % , respectively , after the second m + m , which was similar to 92 % and 77 % after mvr . 
combined myocardial revascularization and abdominal aortic aneurysm repair . myocardial infarction remains the leading cause of early and late deaths after abdominal aortic reconstruction in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm . our approach for the past 4 years has been combined myocardial revascularization with abdominal aortic aneurysm repair in patients with good left ventricle performance . from july 1984 through june 1989 , 128 patients underwent abdominal aortic aneurysm repair . seventeen patients underwent combined abdominal aortic reconstruction with coronary artery bypass grafting . one patient died ( 5.9 % ) . the remaining patients are all well at current follow-up . our experience shows that patients with coronary artery disease and abdominal aortic aneurysm may have both lesions safely repaired as a single operative procedure . 
left ventricular pseudoaneurysm with hemoptysis . a 53-year-old man who had previously undergone resection of a left ventricular aneurysm was admitted because of hemoptysis . preoperative evaluation with computed tomographic scan and cardiac catheterization demonstrated a pseudoaneurysm of the inferior ventricular wall measuring 16 cm in diameter with protrusion into the left hemithorax . the neck of the pseudoaneurysm was a defect in the ventricular wall extending from the base of the mitral valve annulus to the insertion of the posterior papillary muscle . operative repair was performed using an albumin-coated , low-porosity dacron patch . 
an unusual complication of cardiac transplantation -- infected aortic pseudoaneurysm . infections after cardiac transplantation are a frequent cause of early morbidity and mortality . an unusual site for such a complication is at the aortic anastomotic suture line . we report a case of an infected aortic pseudoaneurysm , seen as recurrent septicemia , during the first 6 months after cardiac transplantation . 
repair of posterior left ventricular aneurysm in a six-year-old boy . left ventricular aneurysms and diverticula are rarely encountered in the pediatric age group . this paper reports a case of congestive heart failure and mitral regurgitation in a 6-year-old boy with a large posterolateral left ventricular aneurysm . complete repair was successfully performed by excision of the aneurysm and dacron patch reconstruction of the left ventricular free wall . the patch extended onto the posterior annulus of the mitral valve , thus restoring the mitral valve to normal geometry and correcting the mitral insufficiency . the surgical literature on congenital cardiac diverticula and acquired aneurysms in children is reviewed and summarized . 
hemolysis due to branch pulmonary stenosis after the arterial switch procedure . an infant with d-transposition of the great arteries underwent arterial switch operation using the modified jatene technique . severe bilateral branch pulmonary artery stenosis and mechanical hemolysis subsequently developed . the hemolysis resolved after surgical repair of the stenotic arteries . probable causes are discussed . 
false aneurysm formation of the great arteries after arterial switch operation . an infant with simple transposition of the great arteries underwent a two-staged arterial switch operation , after which mediastinal infection occurred . continuous irrigation with povidone-iodine solution was performed for 10 days . after that , the patient experienced life-threatening hemorrhage three times . at the time of the second hemorrhage , greater omental transfer was performed . on postoperative day 109 , false aneurysm was recognized , having developed from both great arteries . successful repair was performed on postoperative day 110 . 
silicone pouch for protection of automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator leads . automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator has become routine treatment for recurrent , drug-resistant ventricular tachycardia . although there is documentation regarding clinical experience and device performance , there is little information on how to avoid complications related to the retrieval of sensing and defibrillation leads from the subcutaneous space . we are reporting our experience with a silicone pouch for protection of automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator leads that allows immediate and simple retrieval of the leads in case an automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator generator is needed . 
fistulas between the aorta and tracheobronchial tree . aortobronchial fistula is a rare condition that is invariably fatal if not diagnosed and surgically treated . with appropriate surgical intervention , survival rates greater than 70 % can be achieved . a review of the literature and an illustrative case report are presented . a total of 63 fistulas in 62 patients have been described . the case we present is unusual in the use of serratus anterior muscle for repair of the fistula . eighty-seven percent of the cases documented in the literature were associated with an aneurysm of the thoracic aorta . eighty-six percent of the fistulas were between the descending aorta and left bronchopulmonary tree . more than 95 % of patients experienced at least a single episode of hemoptysis , and massive hemoptysis occurred in more than half of the reported cases . a correct preoperative diagnosis was made in only 54 % of cases . plain chest radiographs definitively demonstrated an aneurysm in only 16 % . the computed tomographic scan was the most rewarding test , identifying an aneurysm in 11 of 12 patients and the fistula in 50 % of them . surgical repair resulted in a 76 % survival rate . 
dural spinal cord arteriovenous malformation . after multiple hospital admissions and an inpatient rehabilitation stay , a 68-year-old woman was transferred to our rehabilitation facility with a paraparesis of unknown etiology . previous studies included four ct scans and three mris which did not demonstrate the lesion . a myelogram was noncharacteristic . the correct diagnosis , confirmed by selective angiography , was ultimately contingent upon recognition of the clinical features and natural history of dural spinal cord arteriovenous malformations ( scavm ) . the unusual combination of this multitude of nondiagnostic imaging studies in the uncommon dural scavm served to delay diagnosis and treatment . such delay may have great functional consequences . this report illustrates the importance of suspecting scavm and recognizing its features . emphasis is placed on the physiatrist 's role in assuring proper diagnosis to expedite a timely treatment and to obtain the best functional outcome . a brief review of the classification , clinical features , pathophysiology , diagnosis , and prognosis of scavm is presented . 
a cellist with arm pain : thermal asymmetry in scalenus anticus syndrome . we report on a cellist with pain and coldness of the upper extremity . abnormal thermographic studies were instrumental in uncovering intermittent compression of the subclavian artery , and this prompted us to study the effects of cello playing on skin temperature asymmetry . temperature asymmetry was defined as the temperature difference ( delta-t ) from one hand to the other . in 57 controls , mean delta-t at rest was .309 + / - .254 c. exercising the upper extremities by prolonged elbow flexion or by movements mimicking cello playing in controls did not significantly affect delta-t . in our patient , delta-t was ten times control ( 3.6 c ) . angiography showed extrinsic compression of the subclavian artery occurring only after cello playing ; sympathetic ganglion block relieved the pain . our patient 's abnormal skin temperature may have reflected sympathetic vasomotor hyperactivity . intermittent neurovascular compression and sympathetic hyperactivity appear to be factors in scalenus anticus syndrome . 
coagulation studies in the syndrome of haemolysis , elevated liver enzymes and low platelets . the presence of disseminated intravascular coagulation ( dic ) in the syndrome of haemolysis , elevated liver enzymes and low platelets ( hellp ) is debated . we assessed the occurrence of decompensated and compensated dic ( using predefined criteria ) in 15 consecutive nulliparous pregnant patients with gestational hypertension combined with the hellp syndrome and in 12 consecutive nulliparous controls with pregnancy induced hypertension ( pih ) but without the hellp syndrome . a combination of routine coagulation assays revealed the absence of decompensated dic in all studied patients . however , using more specific and sensitive coagulation assays , compensated dic was observed in all hellp patients and in three patients in the control group . the mean values of antithrombin iii , thrombin-antithrombin iii complexes and protein c in the hellp and the control group were 66 vs 87 % ( p = 0.0004 ) , 21 vs 8 ng/ml ( p = 0.0008 ) and 57 vs 90 % ( p = 0.0018 ) respectively . we conclude that hellp patients show evidence of compensated dic which may have pathophysiological significance for the observed organ damage . 
comparison between perindopril and nifedipine in hypertensive and normotensive diabetic patients with microalbuminuria . melbourne diabetic nephropathy study group objective -- to compare the efficacy of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition with calcium antagonism in diabetic patients with microalbuminuria . design -- randomised study of diabetic patients with microalbuminuria treated with perindopril or nifedipine for 12 months and monitored for one or three months after stopping treatment depending on whether they were hypertensive or normotensive . patients were randomised separately according to whether they were hypertensive or normotensive . setting -- diabetic clinics in three university teaching hospitals . patients -- 50 diabetic patients with persistent microalbuminuria . in all , 43 completed the study : 30 were normotensive and 13 hypertensive ; 19 had type i diabetes and 24 had type ii diabetes . interventions -- for 12 months 20 patients were given perindopril 2-8 mg daily and 23 were given nifedipine 20-80 mg daily . main outcome measures -- albumin excretion rate , blood pressure , and glomerular filtration rate . results -- both perindopril and nifedipine significantly reduced mean blood pressure . during treatment there was no significant difference between those treated with perindopril and those treated with nifedipine with respect to albuminuria or mean blood pressure . stopping treatment with both drugs was associated with a sustained increase in albuminuria and mean blood pressure . there was a significant correlation between mean blood pressure and albuminuria and also between the reduction in mean blood pressure and the decrease in albuminuria during treatment with both drugs . in hypertensive patients both drugs caused significant decreases in mean blood pressure and albuminuria . in normotensive patients there was no significant reduction in albuminuria with either regimen . conclusions -- in diabetic patients with microalbuminuria blood pressure seems to be an important determinant of urinary albumin excretion . perindopril and nifedipine have similar effects on urinary albumin excretion , both preventing increases in albuminuria in normotensive patients and decreasing albuminuria in hypertensive patients . 
detecting hypertension : screening versus case finding in norway . objective -- evaluation of detection of hypertension in adults in the county of nord-trondelag , norway . design -- cross sectional survey with clinical follow up examinations . setting -- health survey by screening teams from the national health screening service , and examinations by all 106 general practitioners in the county . subjects -- during 1984-6 , 74,977 persons ( 88.1 % of those aged 20 years and over ) participated in the health survey . main outcome measures -- hypertension ( when assessed by standardised recording and by questionnaires on drug treatment for hypertension ) according to the blood pressure thresholds used in the norwegian treatment programme . subjects positive on screening were grouped after clinical examination into treatment groups . results -- in all , 2399 subjects were positive for hypertension . before screening 6210 ( 8.3 % ) patients reported taking antihypertensive drugs and another 3849 ( 5.1 % ) had their blood pressure monitored regularly . all who screened positive were referred to their general practitioner and evaluated according to a standard programme . as a result , drug treatment was started in 406 ( 0.5 % ) participants screened and blood pressure monitoring in another 1007 ( 1.3 % ) . of all patients taking antihypertensive drugs after the screening , 6399 ( 94.0 % ) had been diagnosed before screening , and of those whose blood pressure was monitored after the screening , 79.3 % had been diagnosed before screening . conclusions -- at the blood pressure screening thresholds used , and when hypertension is defined by an overall clinical diagnosis , the results indicate that general practitioners can find and diagnose hypertensive patients with the case finding strategy . 
changes in haemostasis after stopping the combined contraceptive pill : implications for major surgery . objective -- to investigate the changes in haemostasis in the three months immediately after stopping the combined contraceptive pill . design -- prospective randomised study . setting -- family planning centre in london . subjects -- 24 women aged 35-45 investigated before , during , and after six months ' use of combined oral contraceptives containing 30 micrograms ethinyl oestradiol together with the progestogens desogestrel or gestodene . main outcome measures and results -- blood samples were taken immediately before and after six months of oral contraceptive use and one , two , four , six , eight , and 12 weeks after the pill had been stopped . during the six months of oral contraceptive use the plasma concentration of factor x and fibrinogen increased and that of antithrombin iii decreased . between two and six weeks after stopping the pill a rebound phenomenon occurred with plasma concentrations of antithrombin iii increasing ( mean change from baseline at two weeks 0.06 iu/l and at six weeks 0.10 iu/l ) and fibrinogen decreasing ( 0.26 g/l change at two weeks and 0.40 g/l at six weeks ) . factor x concentrations fell gradually and the values at eight weeks were not significantly different from those found before the combined pill was started . conclusion -- the combined pill should be stopped at least four weeks before major surgery , which carries the risk of postoperative thrombosis , to allow the potentially prothrombotic haemostatic changes that occur during its use to be corrected . 
complications in percutaneous transluminal angioplasty : relationships with patient age . five hundred consecutive attempted lower limb angioplasties for ischaemic disease ( 370 patients , mean age 65.6 years , range 33-91 years ) were reviewed . significant complications occurred in 44 cases ( 8.8 % ) . nine patients ( 1.8 % ) underwent emergency surgery related to a complication . a further 12 patients ( 2.4 % ) underwent elective surgery related to a complication . in addition , four patients died within 30 days of the procedure ; one following surgery performed because of a complication of angioplasty , one following a myocardial infarction , one following severe bleeding associated with subsequent thrombolytic therapy and one during emergency surgery related to a complication of angioplasty . a correlation was found between complication rate and age . this relationship was independent of the approach to , the position of , and the severity of the treated lesion . elderly patients are at increased risk of complication in lower limb angioplasty . 
double-blind randomized trial of perioperative fibrinolytic enhancement for femoropopliteal bypass . patients with rest pain or acute peripheral arterial thrombosis are known to have impaired endogenous fibrinolysis , which is associated with an increased risk of early vascular graft thrombosis . this risk is exacerbated by the fibrinolytic shutdown which is known to occur after major surgery . stanozolol , which has been demonstrated to enhance endogenous fibrinolysis , was therefore used in an attempt to prevent this perioperative fibrinolytic shutdown and so enhance graft patency . twenty-seven patients were randomized to receive either 50 mg stanozolol or placebo intramuscularly 24 h before operation , followed by a 6 week course of either 5 mg stanozolol or placebo orally , twice daily . on the second day after operation , 10-11 mbq of autologous 111indium-labelled platelets were injected , with scanning over the graft on the 3 following days . despite using a large depot of stanozolol , significant effects , such as raised plasminogen ( p less than 0.001 ) , reduced fibrinogen ( p less than 0.001 ) and reduced euglobulin lysis time ( p less than 0.001 ) , were not seen until the seventh day after operation , with maximum benefit at 6 weeks . this was reflected in the 111indium-labelled platelet deposition studies . the placebo group had a progressive increase in platelet deposition on all 3 days . in contrast , those receiving stanozolol showed a lower , static picture of deposition . however , these changes did not attain statistical significance . three patients experienced early graft thrombosis , two in the placebo group and one in the stanozolol group . only an incomplete inhibition of the perioperative fibrinolytic shutdown was achieved . much longer preoperative courses are thus required to allow the maximum effect to be present at the most crucial time . at present , perioperative fibrinolytic enhancement does not appear to be a practical proposition , and we must await the development of new safer and more potent agents . 
infrarenal abdominal aortic disease : a review of the retroperitoneal approach . transabdominal exposure is the most widely used surgical approach to the infrarenal aorta . over the last 30 years a number of surgeons have championed the retroperitoneal approach for repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms and aortoiliac occlusive disease using a variety of incisions . several studies attest to the clinical superiority of this approach over the transabdominal route and recent evidence demonstrates reduced physiological disturbance with this technique . the retroperitoneal approach is suitable for all elective operations on the abdominal aorta , particularly in patients with high-risk aneurysms and in selected patients with symptomatic and ruptured aneurysms . 
treatment with deferoxamine during ischemia improves functional and metabolic recovery and reduces reperfusion-induced oxygen radical generation in rabbit hearts background . iron may play a central role in oxygen radical generation during myocardial ischemia and after reperfusion . because conditions during ischemia may also liberate iron , we hypothesized that administration of the iron chelator deferoxamine during ischemia would result in improved functional and metabolic recovery after postischemic reperfusion . methods and results . isolated , perfused rabbit hearts were studied by phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy . the hearts received one of three treatments : deferoxamine at the onset of 30 minutes of global ischemia ( n = 9 ) , deferoxamine as a bolus followed by a continuous 15-minute infusion begun at reflow ( n = 9 ) , or standard perfusate ( n = 7 ) . hearts treated with deferoxamine during ischemia showed better recovery of developed pressure than did control hearts ( 63.2 + / - 7.5 % versus 41.2 + / - 2.9 % of baseline ) ( p = 0.02 ) and better recovery of myocardial phosphocreatine content ( 92.4 + / - 10.3 % versus 68.2 + / - 4.5 % of baseline , p less than 0.05 ) . these functional and metabolic benefits were comparable to those obtained with deferoxamine treatment during early reperfusion . in 15 additional hearts , intraischemic treatment with deferoxamine resulted in no reduction in oxygen radical concentrations as measured on frozen tissue by electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy at end ischemia , but the treatment eliminated the reperfusion-induced increase of free radical generation observed in control hearts ( 2.9 + / - 0.01 versus 7.0 + / - 0.07 microm , p less than 0.001 ) . the magnitude of reduction was similar to that when deferoxamine was given at the onset of reflow ( 2.4 + / - 0.02 microm , p less than 0.001 versus control ) . conclusions . these results demonstrate improved functional and metabolic recovery of myocardium treated with deferoxamine during ischemia , accompanied by a reduction in reperfusion-induced oxygen free-radical generation to the same degree as reflow treatment , confirming the importance of iron in the pathogenesis of myocardial reperfusion injury . 
myocardial infarct size-limiting effect of ischemic preconditioning was not attenuated by oxygen free-radical scavengers in the rabbit . background . the limiting effect of ischemic preconditioning on infarct size has been reported in canine hearts , which contain considerable amounts of xanthine oxidase , a free radical-producing enzyme . furthermore , a recent study suggested that free radicals generated during preconditioning may contribute to the cardioprotective effect of preconditioning . the present study examined 1 ) whether preconditioning limits infarct size in rabbits , which , like humans , lack myocardial xanthine oxidase and 2 ) whether the cardioprotective effect of pc is mediated by free radicals . methods and results . a branch of the circumflex coronary artery in rabbits was occluded for 30 minutes and then reperfused for 72 hours . myocardial infarct size and area at risk were determined by histology and fluorescent particles , respectively . five groups were studied : an untreated control group , a preconditioned group ( pc group ) , a high-dose superoxide dismutase ( sod ) - treated preconditioned group ( high-dose sod-pc group ) , a low-dose sod-treated preconditioned group ( low-dose sod-pc group ) , and a sod-plus-catalase-treated preconditioned group ( sod/cat-pc group ) . preconditioning was performed with four episodes of 5 minutes of ischemia and 5 minutes of reperfusion . the free radical scavengers ( 30,000 units/kg sod for high-dose sod-pc group , 15,000 units/kg sod for low-dose sod-pc group , and 30,000 units/kg sod plus 55,000 units/kg catalase for sod/cat-pc group ) were infused intravenously over 60 minutes starting 20 minutes before preconditioning . infarct size as the percentage of area at risk was 45.1 + / - 3.5 % ( mean + / - sem ) in the control group ( n = 11 ) , 13.3 + / - 3.0 % in the pc group ( n = 12 ) , 9.7 + / - 1.8 % in the high-dose sod-pc group ( n = 8 ) , 11.9 + / - 2.2 % in the low-dose sod-pc group ( n = 6 ) , and 9.6 + / - 2.3 % in the sod/cat-pc group ( n = 6 ) ( p less than 0.05 versus control for the last four values ) . the differences in infarct size as the percent of area at risk among the pc , high-dose sod-pc , low-dose sod-pc , and sod/cat-pc groups were not significant . conclusion . ischemic preconditioning delays ischemic myocardial necrosis regardless of myocardial xanthine oxidase content . free radicals are unlikely to have a major role in the mechanism of the preconditioning in rabbits . 
transvascular intracardiac applications of a miniaturized phased-array ultrasonic endoscope . initial experience with intracardiac imaging in piglets . background . recent advances in miniaturization of phased-array and mechanical ultrasound devices have resulted in exploration of alternative approaches to cardiac and vascular imaging in the form of transesophageal or intravascular imaging . preliminary efforts in adapting phased-array endoscopes designed for transesophageal use to a transvascular approach have used full-sized phased-array devices introduced directly into the right atrium in open-chested animals . the purpose of this study was to assess the feasibility of using a custom-made , very small phased-array endoscope for intracardiac imaging introduced intravascularly through a jugular venous approach in young piglets . methods and results . experimental atrial septal defects created in four piglets ( 3-4 weeks old ) had been closed with a buttoned atrial septal defect closure device consisting of an occluder in the left atrium and a counteroccluder in the right atrium . five to 15 days after atrial septal defect closure , the piglets were returned to the experimental laboratory , where a 6.3-mm , 17-element , 5-mhz phased-array probe mounted on a 4-mm endoscope was introduced through a cutdown incision of the external jugular vein and advanced to the right atrium . from the right atrium all four cardiac chambers , their inflows and outflows , and all four valves were well imaged with minimal superior and inferior rotation . high-resolution imaging of the atrial septum defined with anatomical accuracy , later verified by autopsy , the exact placement of both the occluder and counteroccluder in the left and right sides of the atrial septal defects and the absence of any shunting across the atrial septum in any of the four animals . conclusions . our efforts indicate that transvascular passage of small phased-array probes can be easily accomplished and is a promising technique for detailed visualization of cardiac structures . this approach may provide an alternative to transesophageal echocardiography , particularly for guiding interventional procedures such as placement of transcatheter closure devices in pediatric patients . 
contractility and stiffness of noninfarcted myocardium after coronary ligation in rats . effects of chronic angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition . background . previous studies have shown that global left ventricular function is depressed after myocardial infarction . however , little is known about the effects of myocardial infarction on contractility and the passive-elastic properties of residual myocardium . methods and results . we evaluated isometric function and passive myocardial stiffness in isolated , noninfarcted left ventricular papillary muscle from rats 6 weeks after sham operation or myocardial infarction . maximal developed tension and peak rate of tension rise ( + dt/dt ) were significantly decreased in untreated rats with large myocardial infarction compared with controls ( 3.3 + / - 1.1 versus 4.3 + / - 0.6 g/mm2 and 49.5 + / - 17.5 versus 72.5 + / - 10.5 g/mm2/sec , respectively ) . time to peak tension was prolonged ( 120 + / - 8 versus 102 + / - 4 msec ) and myocardial stiffness was increased in untreated myocardial infarction rats compared with controls ( 35.2 + / - 4.9 versus 24.2 + / - 3.7 ) . rats with smaller myocardial infarctions differed from controls only with respect to a prolongation of time to peak tension . papillary muscle myocyte cross-sectional area was increased by 44 % ( p less than 0.05 ) , and myocardial hydroxyproline content was increased by 160 % ( p less than 0.05 ) in rats with large myocardial infarctions compared with controls . to determine whether treatment that improves left ventricular function after myocardial infarction also improves myocardial function , rats were treated with captopril beginning 3 weeks after myocardial infarction and continuing for 3 weeks . treatment with captopril attenuated the prolongation in time to peak tension in the myocardial infarction rats ; however , developed tension , + dt/dt , and muscle stiffness remained abnormal . compared with untreated myocardial infarction rats , captopril-treated myocardial infarction rats had a 9 % decrease in myocyte cross-sectional area ( p = 0.1 ) but a persistent increase in myocardial collagen content . in summary , large myocardial infarction in rats causes contractile dysfunction , increased stiffness , myocyte hypertrophy , and increased collagen content in the residual noninfarcted myocardium . treatment with captopril alters the process of cardiac remodeling and hypertrophy and improves one parameter of contractility in noninfarcted myocardium ; however , myocardial collagen content and myocardial stiffness remain abnormal . conclusions . these findings suggest that angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition in the rat infarct model of heart failure improves global cardiac performance via combined effects on myocardial function and the peripheral circulation . 
coronary blood flow in dogs with contractile dysfunction due to experimental volume overload . background . abnormalities in coronary blood flow are responsible for stress-induced reductions in contractile function in pressure overload hypertrophy . less is known about coronary blood flow in volume overload . in this study , we tested the hypothesis that coronary blood flow abnormalities were responsible for contractile abnormalities in experimental volume overload hypertrophy . methods and results . we examined coronary blood flow at rest and during pacing in seven dogs with contractile dysfunction secondary to chronic experimental mitral regurgitation ( average regurgitant fraction at 3 months , 0.58 + / - 0.05 ) . after 3 months of mitral regurgitation , left ventricular mass had increased from 92 + / - 8 g at baseline to 118 + / - 10 g ( p less than 0.002 ) . the slope of the end-ejection stress-volume relation , one of our indexes used to estimate contractile function , had fallen from 5.4 + / - 0.3 at baseline to 3.0 + / - 0.3 at 3 months of mitral regurgitation ( p less than 0.001 ) . in the mitral regurgitation dogs , coronary blood flow at rest was similar to that of control dogs ( endocardial blood flow : control dogs , 1.33 + / - 0.12 ml/min/g ; mitral regurgitation dogs , 1.16 ml/min/g , p = ns ; epicardial blood flow at rest : control dogs , 1.30 + / - 0.16 ml/min/g ; mitral regurgitation dogs 1.13 + / - 0.2 ml/min/g , p = ns ) . with pacing-induced stress , coronary blood flow increased appropriately in control and mitral regurgitation dogs . ultrasonic dimension gauges placed in the endocardium and epicardium demonstrated no further deterioration in ventricular function during pacing in the mitral regurgitation dogs . in a separate group of five control dogs and five dogs with mitral regurgitation and left ventricular dysfunction , coronary blood flow was examined in the conscious closed-chest state at rest , during adenosine infusion , and during rapid atrial pacing ( 240 beats/min ) . blood flow increased similarly in both groups during pacing and adenosine infusion . conclusions . we conclude that in dogs with mitral regurgitation that have developed contractile dysfunction , abnormalities in coronary blood flow do not explain the resting contractile dysfunction . furthermore , studies during pacing-induced stress and coronary vasodilation with adenosine demonstrate that substantial coronary blood flow reserve is present in this type of volume overload hypertrophy . 
myocardial perfusion-contraction matching . implications for coronary heart disease and hibernation . experimental studies demonstrate that short-term regional perfusion-contraction matching , in which the energy demands of regional myocardial contraction are reduced to match the diminished myocardial substrate supply , occurs during states of low coronary blood flow under resting conditions and during exercise-induced ischemia . this phenomenon is rapidly reversible and appears to occur in several clinical settings . sustained perfusion-contraction matching is observed in states of partial experimental ischemia of intermediate duration lasting several hours . this condition might be called short-term hibernation and resembles clinical conditions such as unstable angina pectoris or myocardial infarction with some residual perfusion in which the contractile defect can be improved by reperfusion provided the ischemia is not severe enough to cause transmural necrosis . such experimental and clinical observations may or may not relate to the setting of regional dysfunction at rest in patients with chronic coronary heart disease , in whom manifestations of acute ischemia may be absent but improvement of wall motion abnormalities occurs after cabg or balloon angioplasty . this condition may constitute the hypothetical state of chronic myocardial hibernation , for which tentative evidence exists from metabolic and perfusion studies using pet . whether such a condition of prolonged perfusion-contraction matching might be associated with adaptive processes that could allow its persistence for long periods without manifest ischemia remains to be investigated . 
ten-year incidence of myocardial infarction and prognosis after infarction . department of veterans affairs cooperative study of coronary artery bypass surgery background . the 10-year incidence of myocardial infarction ( fatal and nonfatal ) and the prognosis after infarction were evaluated in 686 patients with stable angina who were randomly assigned to medical or surgical treatment in the veterans administration cooperative study of coronary artery bypass surgery . methods and results . myocardial infarction was defined by either new q wave findings or clinical symptoms compatible with myocardial infarction accompanied by serum enzyme elevations with or without electrocardiographic findings . treatment comparisons were made according to original treatment assignment ; 35 % of the medical cohort had bypass surgery during the 10-year follow-up period . the overall cumulative infarction rate was somewhat higher in patients assigned to surgery ( 36 % ) than in medical patients ( 31 % ) ( p = 0.13 ) due to perioperative infarctions ( 13 % ) and an accelerated infarction rate after the fifth year of follow-up ( average , 2.4 % / yr in the surgical group versus 1.4 % / yr in the medical group ) . the 10-year cumulative incidence of death or myocardial infarction was also higher in surgical ( 54 % ) than in medical ( 49 % ) patients ( p = 0.20 ) . according to the cox model , the estimated risk of death after infarction was 59 % lower in surgical than in medical patients ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the reduction in postinfarction mortality with surgery was most striking in the first month after the event : 99 % in the first month ( p less than 0.0001 ) and 49 % subsequently ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the estimated risk of death in the absence of infarction was nearly identical regardless of treatment ( p = 0.75 ) . exclusion of perioperative infarctions did not alter the findings . conclusions . although surgery does not reduce the incidence of myocardial infarction overall , it does reduce the risk of mortality after infarction , particularly in the first 30 days after the event ( fatal infarctions ) . 
what is the best predictor of spontaneous ventricular tachycardia and sudden death after myocardial infarction ? background . death during the first year after myocardial infarction is most commonly due to spontaneous ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) or fibrillation ( vf ) . the purpose of this study was to compare , in a single cohort of patients , the values of inducible vt , delayed ventricular activation , low left ventricular ejection fraction , high-grade ventricular ectopy , and st segment displacement on exercise in predicting electrical events ( witnessed instantaneous death and spontaneous vt or vf ) during the first year after myocardial infarction . methods and results . three hundred sixty one patients aged less than 71 years underwent electrophysiological study , signal-averaged electrocardiogram , gated blood-pool scan , 24 hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring , and exercise testing 1-2 weeks after myocardial infarction and were then followed up for at least 1 year . there were 34 deaths ( eight witnessed instantaneous , 26 other ) , and nine patients survived one or more episodes of spontaneous vf or vt . patients with inducible vt were 15.2 times more likely to suffer electrical events than patients without inducible vt . no proportional-hazards model excluding inducible vt was as good a predictor of electrical events as was inducible vt alone . conclusions . inducible vt at electrophysiological study was the single best predictor of spontaneous vt and sudden death after myocardial infarction . 
prospective comparison of a conventional and an accelerated protocol for programmed ventricular stimulation in patients with coronary artery disease . background . this study compared the sensitivity , specificity , and efficiency of a " conventional " and " accelerated " programmed stimulation protocol in 293 patients with coronary artery disease who had a history of sustained or nonsustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) . methods and results . in the conventional protocol , one and two extrastimuli were introduced during sinus rhythm and during basic drive trains at cycle lengths of 600 and 400 msec at the right ventricular apex and then at the outflow tract or septum . in the accelerated protocol , one , two , and then three extrastimuli were introduced at each of three basic drive train cycle lengths ( 350 , 400 , and 600 msec ) at the right ventricular apex ; the procedure was repeated at a second right ventricular site . six hundred thirty-four electrophysiological tests were performed using one of these two protocols either in the baseline state ( 293 tests ) or during drug testing ( 341 tests ) . the yield of sustained , monomorphic vt was 89 % with the conventional protocol and 92 % with the accelerated protocol during baseline tests in patients who had a history of sustained vt ( p = 0.05 ) ; 20 % and 34 % , respectively , during baseline tests in patients with a history of nonsustained vt ( p = 0.06 ) ; and 70 % and 77 % , respectively , during drug testing ( p = 0.2 ) . to induce sustained , monomorphic vt , 10.1 + / - 5.0 ( mean + / - sd ) protocol steps and 14.4 + / - 8.7 minutes were required with the conventional protocol , compared with 4.0 + / - 3.7 steps and 5.6 + / - 6.1 minutes with the accelerated protocol ( p less than 0.001 for each comparison ) . among the tests in which sustained , monomorphic vt was induced , sustained polymorphic vt or ventricular fibrillation was induced more often with the conventional protocol ( 3.6 % ) than with the accelerated protocol ( 0.9 % , p = 0.05 ) . conclusions . the efficiency of programmed stimulation can be improved by the early use of a basic drive train cycle length of 350 msec and three extrastimuli . compared with a conventional stimulation protocol , the accelerated protocol used in this study reduces the number of protocol steps and duration of time required to induce monomorphic vt by an average of more than 50 % and improves the specificity of programmed stimulation without impairing the yield of monomorphic vt . 
value of peak exercise oxygen consumption for optimal timing of cardiac transplantation in ambulatory patients with heart failure . background . optimal timing of cardiac transplantation in ambulatory patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction is often difficult . to determine whether measurement of peak oxygen consumption ( vo2 ) during maximal exercise testing can be used to identify patients in whom transplantation can be safely deferred , we prospectively performed exercise testing on all ambulatory patients referred for transplant between october 1986 and december 1989 . methods and results . patients were assigned into one of three groups on the basis of exercise data : group 1 ( n = 35 ) comprised patients accepted for transplant ( vo2 less than or equal to 14 ml/kg/min ) ; group 2 ( n = 52 ) comprised patients considered too well for transplant ( vo2 greater than 14 ml/kg/min ) ; and group 3 ( n = 27 ) comprised patients with low vo2 rejected for transplant due to noncardiac problems . all three groups were comparable in new york heart association functional class , ejection fraction , and cardiac index ( p = ns ) . pulmonary capillary wedge pressure was significantly lower in group 2 than in either group 1 or 3 ( p less than 0.05 ) , although there was wide overlap . patients with preserved exercise capacity ( group 2 ) had cumulative 1 - and 2-year survival rates of 94 % and 84 % , which are equal to survival levels after transplantation . in contrast , patients rejected for transplant ( group 3 ) had survival rates of only 47 % at 1 year and 32 % at 2 years , whereas patients awaiting transplantation ( group 1 ) had a survival rate of 70 % at 1 year ( both p less than 0.005 versus patients with vo2 greater than 14 ml/kg/min ) . all deaths in group 2 were sudden . by univariate and multivariate analyses , peak vo2 was the best predictor of survival , with only pulmonary capillary wedge pressure providing additional prognostic information . conclusions . these data suggest that cardiac transplantation can be safely deferred in ambulatory patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction and peak exercise vo2 of more than 14 ml/min/kg . 
results and follow-up after percutaneous pulsed laser-assisted balloon angioplasty guided by spectroscopy background . few data are available on the long-term outcome of patients who undergo laser-assisted balloon angioplasty for recanalization of occluded peripheral arteries . because the cost of laser angioplasty is high , the value of the method should be carefully analyzed before it can be considered a routine method for recanalization . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the early and late results of laser-assisted balloon angioplasty in patients who could not be recanalized by conventional techniques . methods and results . laser angioplasty was performed in 66 patients with total occlusion of the iliofemoral artery in whom mechanical techniques failed to recanalize the obstructed vessel . the system consisted of a pulsed dye laser operated at 480 nm , 2 microseconds/pulse , 5 hz , 50 mj/pulse coupled into a 0.021-in . laser catheter . the treatment laser was connected with a diagnostic laser to induce tissue fluorescence for spectroscopic analysis via the same fiber . the treatment laser was emitted only when atheromatous tissue was recognized . after a pilot hole was created by laser emission , dilatation was performed to enlarge the channel . the mean length of occlusion was 8.8 + / - 6.1 cm . the primary success rate was 82 % . it did not depend on the length of occlusion but was greater in non-calcified than in calcified lesions ( 88 % versus 71 % , p less than 0.03 ) . complications included seven early reocclusions that could be recanalized and eight perforations without clinical sequelae . at a mean 18-month follow-up , 64 % of the laser-treated arteries remained patent . the rate of patency was related neither to the length of the occlusion nor to calcifications but was lower in patients who had early reocclusion ( p less than 0.02 ) . conclusions . pulsed dye laser-assisted balloon angioplasty is effective for recanalization of totally occluded arteries that can not be treated by conventional means . the efficacy is limited by calcifications . the long-term patency rate is acceptable given the severity of the lesions . 
left ventricular passive diastolic properties in chronic mitral regurgitation . background . in chronic mitral regurgitation , the myocardium responds to the increased filling volume by geometric alteration and eccentric hypertrophy . this study was designed to evaluate the effects of a pure volume overload on left ventricular diastolic chamber and myocardial properties and to assess the relation of passive diastolic function to systolic ejection performance . methods and results . by use of simultaneous cineangiography and left ventricular micromanometry , left ventricular passive diastolic stiffness was evaluated in nine normal controls ( group 1 ) , 14 patients with chronic mitral regurgitation and a normal ejection fraction ( greater than or equal to 57 % , group 2 ) , and 13 patients with mitral regurgitation and a reduced ejection fraction ( less than 57 % , group 3 ) . passive diastolic function was evaluated by using a three-constant elastic model . left ventricular chamber properties were represented by the relation of pressure to volume ; myocardial properties were evaluated by relating myocardial midwall stress to midwall strain . the constant of left ventricular chamber stiffness was decreased in group 2 compared with controls ( p less than 0.05 ) but it was normal in group 3 . the constant of myocardial stiffness was increased in group 3 compared with groups 1 and 2 ( p less than 0.01 ) . among patients with mitral regurgitation , there was a significant inverse relation between ejection fraction and the constant of myocardial stiffness ( r = -0.83 ) . conclusions . the chronic adaptation to volume overload in chronic mitral regurgitation tends to decrease left ventricular chamber stiffness . patients with mitral regurgitation and a depressed ejection fraction demonstrated diastolic myocardial dysfunction . compromised diastolic function in patients with chronic mitral regurgitation and reduced systolic performance may contribute to the clinical manifestations of congestive heart failure . 
prognostic significance of doppler measures of diastolic function in cardiac amyloidosis . a doppler echocardiography study . background . we have previously characterized the left ventricular diastolic filling abnormalities in cardiac amyloidosis by doppler methods . the various filling patterns were shown to be related to the degree of cardiac amyloid infiltration . the purpose of this study was to determine the value of doppler diastolic filling variables for assessing prognosis in cardiac amyloidosis . methods and results . we performed pulsed-wave doppler studies of the left ventricular inflow and obtained clinical follow-up data in 63 consecutive patients with biopsy-proven systemic amyloidosis . all patients had typical echocardiographic features of cardiac involvement . the patients were subdivided into two groups according to deceleration time : group 1 ( 33 patients ) had a deceleration time of 150 msec or less , indicative of restrictive physiology , and group 2 ( 30 patients ) had a deceleration time of more than 150 msec . of the 63 patients , 32 ( 51 % ) died during a mean follow-up period of 18 + / - 12 months . of these deaths , 25 ( 78 % ) were cardiac deaths , and 19 of the 25 patients ( 76 % ) were from group 1 . the 1-year probability of survival in group 1 was significantly less than that in group 2 ( 49 % versus 92 % , p less than 0.001 ) . bivariate analysis revealed that the combination of the doppler variables of shortened deceleration time and increased early diastolic filling velocity to atrial filling velocity ratio were stronger predictors of cardiac death than were the two-dimensional echocardiographic variables of mean left ventricular wall thickness and fractional shortening . conclusions . doppler-derived left ventricular diastolic filling variables are important predictors of survival in cardiac amyloidosis . 
catheter modification of the atrioventricular junction with radiofrequency energy for control of atrioventricular nodal reentry tachycardia . background . the utility of transcatheter application of radiofrequency energy to eliminate atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia ( avnrt ) was investigated . methods and results . thirty-nine patients ( mean age , 53 + / - 20 years ; range 14-86 years ) with medically refractory avnrt underwent perinodal ablation with radiofrequency energy . a custom-designed 6f catheter with a large ( 3-mm-long ) distal electrode and interelectrode pacing of 2 mm was used in the majority of cases . the catheter used for ablation was initially positioned across the tricuspid anulus to obtain the largest his bundle electrogram , then withdrawn to obtain the largest atrial : ventricular electrogram ratio , with a small his bundle electrogram ( less than or equal to 100 microv ) . each application of radiofrequency energy ( 350-550 khz , 16.2 + / - 5.2 w ) was stopped after 60 seconds or if pr prolongation or an impedance rise was noted . the endpoints of the procedure were persistent modification of atrioventricular nodal conduction ( either first-degree atrioventricular block or impairment of ventriculoatrial conduction ) and noninducibility of avnrt before and during isoproterenol administration . radiofrequency energy was applied a mean of 6.8 + / - 3.5 times per session . after a mean follow-up of 8 + / - 3.0 months , 32 of the 39 patients ( 82 % ) have been free of avnrt , and did not have high grade av block . three patients ( 8 % ) developed complete atrioventricular block and had pacemakers implanted . two patients had unsuccessful initial procedures , and two patients had initially successful ablations but had recurrences of tachycardia 4-6 weeks later . elimination of avnrt appeared to be due to effects on the retrograde fast pathway in most patients . conclusions . radiofrequency ablation of the perinodal right atrium appears to be safe and effective for treatment of typical avnrt . 
fibrinogen , viscosity , and white blood cell count are major risk factors for ischemic heart disease . the caerphilly and speedwell collaborative heart disease studies background . recent studies have suggested that hemostatic factors and white blood cell count are predictive of ischemic heart disease ( ihd ) . the relations of fibrinogen , viscosity , and white blood cell count to the incidence of ihd in the caerphilly and speedwell prospective studies are described . methods and results . the two studies have a common core protocol and are based on a combined cohort of 4,860 middle-aged men from the general population . the first follow-up was at a nearly constant interval of 5.1 years in caerphilly and 3.2 years in speedwell ; 251 major ihd events had occurred . age-adjusted relative odds of ihd for men in the top 20 % of the distribution compared with the bottom 20 % were 4.1 ( 95 % confidence interval , 2.6-6 .5 ) for fibrinogen , 4.5 ( 95 % confidence interval , 2.8-7 .4 ) for viscosity , and 3.2 ( 95 % confidence interval , 2.0-4 .9 ) for white blood cell count . associations with ihd were similar in men who had never smoked , exsmokers , and current smokers , and the results suggest that at least part of the effect of smoking on ihd is mediated through fibrinogen , viscosity , and white blood cell count . multivariate analysis shows that white blood cell count is an independent risk factor for ihd as is either fibrinogen or viscosity , or possibly both . jointly , these three variables significantly improve the fit of a logistic regression model containing all the main conventional risk factors . further , a model including age , smoking habits , fibrinogen , viscosity , and white blood cell count predicts ihd as well as one in which the three hemostatic/rheological variables are replaced by total cholesterol , diastolic pressure , and body mass index . conclusion . jointly , fibrinogen , viscosity , and white blood cell count are important risk factors for ihd . 
upward shift of the lower range of coronary flow autoregulation in hypertensive patients with hypertrophy of the left ventricle background . at any given perfusion pressure , coronary reserve is expressed by the difference between autoregulated and maximally vasodilated flow . in hypertension the raised coronary resistance reduces the steepness of the pressure-flow relationship at maximal vasodilatation . in the presence of cardiac hypertrophy the line of autoregulated flow becomes higher . for these reasons coronary reserve is reduced and the point at which baseline flow approaches the maximal achievable flow might be shifted to a higher perfusion pressure . thus , any reduction below this elevated and critical value of pressure would lower the coronary flow . methods and results . the investigated patients were normotensive ( controls , nine ) and hypertensive with normal ( group i , seven ) or augmented lv mass index because of concentric lv hypertrophy ( group ii , eight ) . all had effort-induced angina and angiographically normal left epicardial branches . flow in the great cardiac vein was measured by thermodilution in the baseline and during stepwise ( 5 mm hg every 5 minutes ) decrease of the coronary perfusion pressure with a titrated nitroprusside i.v. infusion ; perfusion pressures of 60 mm hg in the controls and 70 mm hg in the hypertensives were taken as end points . baseline flow averaged 102 ml/min in normotensives , 104 ml/min in hypertensive group i and 148 ml/min in hypertensive group ii . at the end points flow was similar to baseline in the controls and group i. in group ii coronary flow started to decline and myocardial o2 extraction started to slightly but significantly rise at perfusion pressures of 90-80 mm hg ; at the end point flow was reduced by 26 % ( p less than 0.01 from baseline ) . the perfusion patterns did not seem to be related to the changes in tension-time index and heart rate . conclusions . the association of high blood pressure ( reduced ability of the coronary arterioles to dilate ) and hypertrophy of the myocardium ( augmented baseline coronary flow ) may shift the point of exhaustion of coronary reserve to a higher perfusion pressure and make the myocardium vulnerable to treatment-induced relative hypertension . 
concept of maximal flow ratio for immediate evaluation of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty result by videodensitometry . background . in the setting of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) , immediate information about the result of the intervention is important , whereas morphological parameters are often less reliable than in diagnostic coronary arteriography . recently , a new videodensitometric method was introduced and validated in animal experiments , which allows accurate comparison of maximal myocardial perfusion between situations with different degrees of stenosis . this method uses mean transit time ( tmn ) of the contrast agent at maximal hyperemia as a parameter for maximal flow and is strictly in accordance with indicated dilation theory . methods and results . in 40 patients with angina pectoris , single-vessel disease , and a positive exercise test at the time of acceptance for ptca , this approach was applied for evaluation of the improvement of maximal flow achieved by the ptca . maximal vasodilation was induced immediately before and 15 minutes after ptca by intracoronary administration of papaverine , and digital angiographic studies were performed . by special breath-holding instruction , almost motionless , triggered image acquisition was possible during 15-20 heartbeats . excellent subtraction images could be obtained , and reliable determination of tmn at maximal hyperemia was possible in 33 patients both before and after ptca . the ratio between maximal flow after and before ptca , called maximal flow ratio ( mfr ) , was represented by the ratio between tmn before and after the intervention and compared with the results of exercise testing 24-48 hours before and 7-10 days after the procedure . after correction for pressure changes , mfr was 2.2 + / - 1.5 for the 33 dilated vessels and 1.0 + / - 0.2 for 25 normal vessels serving as a control . in 94 % of all patients , an mfr value of more than 1.6 or less than 1.6 discriminated between presence or absence of reversal of exercise test result from positive to negative . if on-line judgment of success was based upon angiographic parameters or measurement of trans-stenotic pressure gradient , the relation with noninvasive functional improvement was present only in 66 % and 74 % of all patients , respectively . a definite range of what can be called normal tmn at maximal hyperemia could be distinguished , and post-ptca values for successfully dilated arteries returned completely to this normal range . conclusions . accurate comparison of maximal myocardial perfusion before and after ptca is possible in man , improvement of maximal flow is highly related to functional improvement as indicated by exercise test results , and , therefore , this method provides a straightforward way for on-line evaluation of the result of the intervention . 
heart rate adjustment of exercise-induced st segment depression . improved risk stratification in the framingham offspring study background . simple heart rate adjustment of st segment depression during exercise ( delta st/hr index ) and the pattern of st depression as a function of heart rate during exercise and recovery ( the rate-recovery loop ) have been shown to improve the ability of the exercise electrocardiogram to detect the presence of coronary heart disease ( chd ) , but the performance of these methods for the prediction of future coronary events remains to be examined . methods and results . we compared the delta st/hr index and the rate-recovery loop with standard electrocardiographic criteria for prediction of chd events in 3,168 asymptomatic men and women in the framingham offspring study who underwent treadmill exercise electrocardiography and who , at entry , were free of clinical and electrocardiographic evidence of chd . after a mean follow-up of 4.3 years , there were 65 new chd events : four sudden deaths , 24 new myocardial infarctions , and 37 incident cases of angina pectoris . when a cox proportional hazards model with adjustment for age and sex was used , a positive exercise electrocardiogram by standard criteria ( greater than or equal to 0.1 mv horizontal or downsloping st segment depression ) was not predictive of new chd events ( chi 2 = 0.40 , p = 0.52 ) . in contrast , stratification according to the presence or absence of a positive delta st/hr index ( greater than or equal to 1.6 microv/beat/min ) and a positive ( counterclockwise ) rate-recovery loop was associated with chd event risk ( chi 2 = 9.45 , p less than 0.01 ) and separated subjects into three groups with varying risks of coronary events : high risk , when both tests were positive ( relative risk 3.6 ; 95 % confidence interval , 2.4-5 .4 ) ; intermediate risk , when either the delta st/hr index or the rate-recovery loop was positive ( relative risk , 1.9 ; 95 % confidence interval , 1.3-2 .8 ) ; and low risk , when both tests were negative . after multivariate adjustment for age , sex , smoking , total cholesterol level , fasting glucose level , diastolic blood pressure , and electrocardiographic evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy , the combined delta st/hr index and rate-recovery loop criteria remained predictive of coronary events ( chi 2 = 5.45 , p = 0.02 ) . conclusions . heart rate adjustment of st segment depression by the delta st/hr index and the rate-recovery loop during exercise electrocardiography can improve prediction of future coronary events in asymptomatic men and women . 
electrocardiographic body surface potential mapping in the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome . noninvasive determination of the ventricular insertion sites of accessory atrioventricular connections . background . a reliable , noninvasive procedure to determine the location of accessory atrioventricular connections in patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome would add an important diagnostic tool to the clinical armamentarium . methods and results . body surface potential mapping ( bspm ) using 180 electrodes in various-sized vests and displayed as a calibrated color map was used to determine the ventricular insertion site of the accessory atrioventricular ( av ) connections in 34 patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome . attempts were made to determine the 17 ventricular insertion sites described by guiraudon et al . all 34 patients had an electrophysiologic study ( eps ) at cardiac catheterization , and 18 had surgery so the ventricular insertion sites could be accurately located using eps at surgery . a number of physiologic observations were also made with bspm . conclusions . the following conclusions were drawn : 1 ) bspm using qrs analysis accurately predicts the ventricular insertion site of accessory av connections in the presence of a delta wave in the electrocardiogram ; 2 ) the ventricular insertion sites of accessory av connections determined by bspm and by eps at surgery were identical or within one mapping site ( 1.5 cm or less ) in all but four of 18 cases ; three of the four exceptions had more than one accessory av connection , and the other had a very broad ventricular insertion ; 3 ) bspm and eps locations of the accessory av connections correlated very well in the 34 cases despite the fact that bspm determines the ventricular insertion site and eps determines the atrial insertion site of the accessory av connection ; 4 ) as suggested by the three cases of multiple accessory av connections , eps and bspm may be complementary since bspm identified one pathway and eps identified the other ( in the case with a broad ventricular insertion , bspm and eps demonstrated different proportions of that insertion ) ; 5 ) bspm using st-t analysis is very much less accurate in predicting the ventricular insertion site of accessory av connections unless there is marked preexcitation ; 6 ) standard electrocardiography using the gallagher grid methodology ( but with no attempt at stimulating maximal preexcitation ) was not as accurate as qrs analysis of bspm in predicting the ventricular insertion site of the accessory av connection ; however , exact comparison is hampered by the different number and size of the gallagher and guiraudon insertion sites ; 7 ) bspm using qrs analysis appears to be very accurate in predicting right ventricular versus left ventricular posteroseptal accessory av connections ; 8 ) typical epicardial right ventricular breakthrough , indicative of conduction via the specialized av conduction system , occurs in all patients with left ventricular free wall accessory av connections ; 9 ) epicardial right ventricular breakthrough was not observed in cases with right ventricular free wall or anteroseptal accessory av connections ; 10 ) epicardial right ventricular breakthrough can occur in the presence of posteroseptal accessory av connections , whether right or left ventricular ; and 11 ) the delay in epicardial right ventricular breakthrough in cases with left ventricular insertion may provide a marker to estimate the degree of ventricular preexcitation . 
diagnostic efficiency of troponin t measurements in acute myocardial infarction background . the present study was designed to evaluate the efficiency of a newly developed troponin t enzyme immunoassay for the detection of acute myocardial infarction . methods and results . the study comprised 388 patients admitted with chest pain and suspected myocardial infarction and 101 patients with skeletal muscle damage and additional suspected myocardial cell damage . troponin t was elevated to more than twice the analytical sensitivity of the assay ( 0.5 microgram/l ) in all patients with non-q wave ( range , 1.2-5 micrograms/l ) and q wave infarction ( range , 3-220 micrograms/l ) . troponin t appeared in serum as early as 3 hours after onset of pain in 50 % of the patients and remained elevated in all patients for more than 130 hours , revealing release kinetics of both free cytosolic and structurally bound molecules . the diagnostic efficiency of troponin t was superior to that of creatine kinase-mb ( 98 % versus 97 % ) and remained at 98 % until 5.5 days after admission , if patients with unstable angina were excluded from analysis . in the 79 patients with unstable angina , troponin t was elevated ( range , 0.55-3 .1 micrograms/l ) in at least one blood sample from each of 37 patients ( 56 % ) . circulating troponin t was correlated to the presence of reversible st segment or t wave changes on the electrocardiogram ( p less than 0.005 ) and to the frequency of in-hospital complications . in the 101 patients with skeletal muscle damage and suspected additional cardiac muscle damage , troponin t was the most useful test ; its efficiency was 89 % or 94 % ( depending on the discriminator value used ) as compared with 63 % for creatine kinase-mb . conclusions . thus , the data of the study indicate that the newly developed troponin t test improves the efficiency of serodiagnostic tools for the detection of myocardial cell necrosis as compared with conventionally used cardiac enzymes . 
intravascular ultrasound imaging of human coronary arteries in vivo . analysis of tissue characterizations with comparison to in vitro histological specimens . background . intravascular ultrasound imaging was performed in 27 patients after coronary balloon angioplasty to quantify the lumen and atheroma cross-sectional areas . methods and results . a 20-mhz ultrasound catheter was inserted through a 1.6-mm plastic introducer sheath across the dilated area to obtain real-time images at 30 times/sec . the ultrasound images distinguished the lumen from atheroma , calcification , and the muscular media . the presence of dissection between the media and the atheroma was well visualized . these observations of tissue characterization were compared with an in vitro study of 20 human atherosclerotic artery segments that correlated the ultrasound images to histological preparations . the results indicate that high-quality intravascular ultrasound images under controlled in vitro conditions can provide accurate microanatomic information about the histological characteristics of atherosclerotic plaques . similar quality cross-sectional ultrasound images were also obtained in human coronary arteries in vivo . quantitative analysis of the ultrasound images from the clinical studies revealed that the mean cross-sectional lumen area after balloon angioplasty was 5.0 + / - 2.0 mm2 . the mean residual atheroma area at the level of the prior dilatation was 8.7 + / - 3.4 mm2 , which corresponded to 63 % of the available arterial cross-sectional area . at the segments of the coronary artery that appeared angiographically normal , the ultrasound images demonstrated the presence of atheroma involving 4.7 + / - 3.2 mm2 , which was a mean of 35 + / - 23 % of the available area bounded by the media . conclusions . intravascular ultrasound appears to be more sensitive than angiography for demonstrating the presence and extent of atherosclerosis and arterial calcification . intracoronary imaging after balloon angioplasty reveals that a significant amount of atheroma is still present , which may partly explain why the incidence of restenosis is high after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . 
acute coronary artery occlusion during and after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . frequency , prediction , clinical course , management , and follow-up [ published erratum appears in circulation 1991 jul ; 84 ( 1 ) :446 ] background . acute coronary artery occlusion after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) continues to remain a serious complication despite significant improvement in operator performance and technological advancements . this retrospective study was performed to ascertain the frequency , predictive variables , management , and outcome of acute coronary artery occlusion . methods and results . the study was based on data from 1,423 consecutive patients who underwent an elective coronary angioplasty between january 1986 and december 1988 . acute coronary artery occlusion occurred in 104 patients ( 7.3 % ) . acute occlusion developed during the dilatation procedure in 80 patients ( 5.6 % ) and within 24 hours after the procedure in 24 patients ( 1.7 % ) . four clinical and 14 angiographic variables predictive for acute coronary artery occlusion were analyzed in these 104 patients with a complicated procedure and were compared with those in 104 representative patients with successful attempts . multivariate analysis found three independent predictive variables : unstable angina , multivessel disease , and complex lesions . the overall clinical outcome after management of acute coronary artery occlusion including immediate repeat dilatation ( 95 patients ) , use of intracoronary streptokinase ( 34 patients ) , or autoperfusion catheter ( 12 patients ) was successful ( reduction of lumen diameter to less than 50 % , no death , no myocardial infarction [ mi ] , and no emergency surgery ) in 42 patients ( 40 % ) , was a failure without major complication in four patients ( 4 % ) , and was a failure with major complication ( death , mi , and emergency surgery ) in 58 patients ( 56 % ) . the overall mortality rate was 6 % ( six patients ) , the overall mi rate was 36 % ( 37 patients ) , and emergency bypass surgery was required in 30 % of patients ( 31 patients ) . at 6 months ' follow-up of 42 patients with successful management , recurrent angina pectoris due to restenosis occurred in 10 patients ( 24 % ) , and a late mi occurred in one patient ( 3 % ) . at 6 months ' follow-up of 56 survivors with unsuccessful management ( development of mi or need for emergency bypass surgery ) , recurrent angina occurred in nine patients ( 16 % ) , and cardiac death in two patients ( 4 % ) . however , the majority of patients in both groups were either symptom free or had mild angina pectoris . conclusion . acute coronary artery occlusion during ptca is often unpredictable , but its frequency is higher in patients with unstable angina , multivessel disease , and complex lesions . despite immediate redilatation , use of intracoronary streptokinase , and emergency bypass surgery , ptca is associated with a high mortality and morbidity . 
baroreflex sensitivity and electrophysiological correlates in patients after acute myocardial infarction . background . several studies have identified transient disturbances of autonomic function during the acute and recovery phases of myocardial infarction , and it has recently been suggested that survivors of acute myocardial infarction with depressed vagal tone may be at increased risk of sudden or arrhythmic death . methods and results . to investigate this hypothesis , parasympathetic function was assessed by arterial baroreflex sensitivity ( brs ) testing ( using the phenylephrine method ) and by heart rate variability ( hrv ) analysis from 24-hour holter recording in 68 patients at day 7-10 after infarction . the relation between autonomic tone and markers of arrhythmic propensity , including programmed ventricular stimulation ( pvs ) and late potentials in addition to other clinical variables , was examined . brs for the whole group was 7.0 + / - 4.7 msec/mm hg and was inversely correlated with age ( r = 0.53 , p less than 0.001 ) but not with left ventricular ejection fraction ( r = 0.035 , p = ns ) . in those patients in whom sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia ( smvt ) was induced , brs was significantly reduced ( p = 0.001 ) as was hrv ( p = 0.007 ) and left ventricular ejection fraction ( p = 0.022 ) . the strongest association between any variable ( including hrv , brs , late potentials , left ventricular ejection fraction , exercise testing , q waves , and infarct site ) and the induction of sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia was depressed brs with a relative risk of 36.28 ( 95 % confidence interval , 5-266 ) . conclusions . this study confirms that depressed brs identifies a subgroup at high risk for arrhythmic events after myocardial infarction and that programmed ventricular stimulation may be safely limited to this group without any loss of predictive accuracy . 
giant cell versus lymphocytic myocarditis . a comparison of their clinical features and long-term outcomes background . giant cell myocarditis has rarely been diagnosed premortem , and little is known about its natural history . in addition , no comparative studies with lymphocytic myocarditis exist . methods and results . the clinical features , serial change in left ventricular fraction ( lvef ) , and outcomes of all patients with histologically verified myocarditis were retrospectively evaluated . ten patients ( 22 % ) were found to have giant cell myocarditis ( group 1 ) , whereas the remaining 36 ( 78 % ) had lymphocytic myocarditis ( group 2 ) . age at presentation , gender distribution , duration of symptoms , initial lvef , and resting hemodynamics did not differ between groups . ventricular tachycardia was detected in 90 % of group 1 patients compared with only 25 % of group 2 ( p = 0.0007 ) . atrioventricular block that required pacemaker insertion was also more common in group 1 ( 60 % ) than in group 2 ( 8.3 % ) ( p = 0.001 ) . left ventricular systolic function declined during follow-up in group 1 patients ( lvef , 0.43 + / - 0.07-0 .26 + / - 0.05 , p = 0.11 ) but increased in group 2 patients ( lvef , 0.33 + / - 0.03-0 .41 + / - 0.03 , p = 0.02 ) . when the net change between initial and final lvef was assessed , a significant difference was evident ( giant cell group , -0.17 + / - 0.06 ; lymphocytic group , +0.07 + / - 0.03 ; p = 0.0008 ) . although a greater proportion of patients in group 1 died or required transplantation ( seven of 10 versus 11 of 36 , p = 0.03 ) , actuarial survival over 4 years was not different for the giant cell group ( 50 % ) than for the lymphocytic group ( 62 % ) . conclusion . giant cell myocarditis was more prevalent than previously recognized and highly associated with both ventricular tachycardia and pacemaker requirement . the likelihood of an adverse event , either cardiovascular mortality or cardiac transplantation , was significantly greater for patients with giant cell myocarditis than for those with lymphocytic myocarditis , perhaps because of the progressive decline in left ventricular systolic function that was observed in those with giant cell myocarditis . 
multiplexing studies of effects of rapid atrial pacing on the area of slow conduction during atrial flutter in canine pericarditis model . background . we report that rapid atrial pacing interrupts atrial flutter when the orthodromic wave front from the pacing impulse is blocked in an area of slow conduction in the reentry circuit . to characterize the area of slow conduction during atrial flutter and rapid pacing , we studied 11 episodes of induced atrial flutter , mean cycle length 157 + / - 20 msec , in eight dogs with sterile pericarditis . methods and results . atrial electrograms were recorded simultaneously from 95 pairs of right atrial electrodes during the interruption of atrial flutter by rapid atrial pacing , mean cycle length 139 + / - 21 msec . areas of slow conduction during atrial flutter were demonstrated at one to three sites in the reentry circuit . after rapid pacing captured the reentry circuit , one area of slow conduction either disappeared ( 10 episodes ) or the degree of slow conduction in an area of slow conduction decreased ( one episode ) . both changes were in association with activation of the region by a wave front from the pacing impulse that arrived from a direction different than that during the induced atrial flutter . interruption of atrial flutter during rapid pacing occurred when the orthodromic wave front from the pacing impulse blocked in an area of slow conduction that had either newly evolved during rapid pacing ( seven episodes ) or that was previously present ( four episodes ) . conclusions . areas of slow conduction present during atrial flutter and rapid pacing of atrial flutter are functional and depend on both the atrial rate and the direction of the circulating wave fronts . interruption of atrial flutter by rapid pacing results from block of the orthodromic wave front of the pacing impulse in an area of slow conduction in the reentry circuit . 
xanthine oxidase inhibition does not limit canine infarct size . background . evidence supporting the role of xanthine oxidase in myocardial reperfusion injury is based on studies with pharmacological interventions used to inhibit enzyme function . controversy exists , however , regarding the true role of xanthine oxidase in reperfusion injury . this study was performed to determine whether xanthine oxidase inhibition limits myocardial injury due to coronary artery occlusion and reperfusion . methods and results . anesthetized dogs underwent coronary artery occlusion ( 90 minutes ) and reperfusion ( 6 hours ) . oxypurinol ( 28 mg/kg ) or amflutizole ( 30 mg/kg ) , chemically unrelated inhibitors of xanthine oxidase , or vehicle was infused intravenously 15 minutes before and 3 hours after reperfusion . regional myocardial blood flow was determined with radiolabeled microspheres . infarct size was determined with the tetrazolium method . myocardial infarct size ( percent of risk region ) was less in oxypurinol-treated dogs , 32 + / - 16 % , compared with that of the control group , 46 + / - 15 % . infarct size for the amflutizole-treated dogs , 40 + / - 21 % , was not significantly different from that of the control group . there were no differences in rate-pressure product or collateral blood flow to account for differences in infarct size . uric acid concentration in the coronary venous plasma increased after reperfusion in the dogs treated with vehicle but not in the drug-treated dogs . xanthine oxidase inhibition was demonstrated in each of the drug treatment groups , but only oxypurinol limited the extent of myocardial injury . conclusions . previously reported cardioprotective effects of allopurinol , noted to occur only when the drug was administered chronically , may be related to a property of oxypurinol , a major metabolite of allopurinol . the beneficial effect of oxypurinol is unrelated to inhibition of superoxide formation during xanthine oxidase-catalyzed oxidation of xanthine and hypoxanthine . 
hemodynamic benefit of maintaining atrioventricular synchrony during cardiac pacing in critically ill patients . objective : to determine the hemodynamic effects of maintaining atrioventricular synchrony during emergency cardiac pacing in critically ill patients . design : prospective , within patient double-blind study . setting : icu or coronary care unit patients in a university hospital . patients : forty ( 23 cardiac surgery , ten acute myocardial infarction , and seven general intensive care ) seriously ill patients with severe symptomatic bradycardia . intervention : initial randomization of patients to receive either a pacing mode where atrioventricular synchronization was maintained ( atrioventricular pacing : atrial demand , atrioventricular sequential , atrioventricular universal ) or a mode of pacing where atrioventricular synchrony was not preserved ( ventricular demand pacing ) . measurements and main results : the cardiac output increased from a mean of 4.5 + / - 1.7 l/min ( 95 % confidence intervals : 4.0 to 5.0 l/min ) during ventricular demand pacing to 5.3 + / - 1.7 l/min ( 95 % confidence intervals : 4.9 to 5.9 l/min ) during atrioventricular pacing ( p less than .0001 ) despite trivial decreases in cvp from 14 + / - 4 mm hg ( 95 % confidence intervals : 13 to 15 mm hg ) to 13 + / - 5 mm hg ( 95 % confidence intervals : 12 to 15 mm hg ) and pulmonary artery occlusion pressure from 18 + / - 5 mm hg ( 95 % confidence intervals : 16 to 20 mm hg ) to 17 + / - 5 mm hg ( 95 % confidence intervals : 15 to 18 mm hg ) . at the same time , mean arterial pressure ( map ) increased from 74 + / - 15 mm hg ( 95 % confidence intervals : 64 to 79 mm hg ) to 83 + / - 15 mm hg ( 95 % confidence intervals : 80 to 88 mm hg ) and left ventricular stroke work index from 22 + / - 10 g.m / m2 ( 95 % confidence intervals : 19 to 25 g.m / m2 ) to 30 + / - 11 g.m / m2 ( 95 % confidence intervals : 26 to 33 g.m / m2 ) . there was no significant change in mean pulmonary artery pressure , pulmonary vascular resistance index , or systemic vascular resistance index . conclusion : when cardiac pacing is required in critically ill patients , maintaining atrioventricular synchrony increases stroke volume , cardiac output , and map apparently with minimal effects on preload and afterload . 
pulmonary effects of ischemic limb reperfusion : evidence for a role for oxygen-derived radicals . objective : to evaluate the lung as a reperfusion target after limb ischemia-reperfusion , and to measure specifically the oxygen radical response to this reperfusion . design : paired simple randomized , with continuous interval data in dependent variable and both continuous and nominal independent variables . subjects and intervention : sprague-dawley male rats ( n = 195 ) were anesthetized and both hind limbs occluded for 3.75 hr , the overnight ld50 . alveolar lavage was performed on the animals 1 hr after reperfusion or on survivors 20 hr after reperfusion . groups were either undosed or pretreated with alpha-tocopherol as an antioxidant ( 50 mg/kg . day ) 2 days before ischemia . measurements and main results : luminol-enhanced chemiluminescence was measured in both phorbol myristate acetate-stimulated and unstimulated macrophages . nanomoles of superoxide radicals per 10 ( 6 ) alveolar cells/min were also measured using a cytochrome c reduction assay . a significant ( p less than .01 , student 's t-test ) , time-dependent increase in response of cells from ischemic-reperfused rats was seen . pretreatment with antioxidant had no effect at 1 hr , but significant differences were seen in the 20-hr survivors . conclusions : these studies show that alveolar lavage cells , 95 % macrophages , reflect the reperfusion of ischemic-reperfused hind limbs by a significant increase in oxygen radical activity , an effect partly suppressed in antioxidant-dosed survivors . 
mild hypothermic cardiopulmonary resuscitation improves outcome after prolonged cardiac arrest in dogs background and methods : this study was designed to explore the effect of mild cerebral and systemic hypothermia ( 34 degrees c ) on outcome after prolonged cardiac arrest in dogs . after ventricular fibrillation with no flow of 10 min , and standard external cpr with epinephrine ( low flow ) from ventricular fibrillation time of 10 to 15 min , defibrillation and restoration of spontaneous normotension were between ventricular fibrillation time of 16 and 20 min . this procedure was followed by controlled ventilation to 20 hr postarrest and intensive care to 72 hr postarrest . in control group 1 ( n = 10 ) , core temperature was 37.5 degrees c ; in control group 2 ( n = 10 ) , cooling was started immediately after restoration of spontaneous normotension ; and in group 3 ( n = 10 ) , cooling was initiated with start of cpr . cooling was by clinically feasible methods . results : best overall performance categories achieved ( 1 = normal ; 5 = brain death ) were better in group 2 ( p = .012 ) and group 3 ( p = .005 ) than in group 1 . best neurologic deficit scores were 36 + / - 14 % in group 1 , 22 + / - 15 % in group 2 ( p = .02 ) , and 19 + / - 18 % in group 3 ( p = .01 ) . brain histopathologic damage scores were also lower ( better ) in groups 2 ( p = .05 ) and 3 ( p = .03 ) . myocardial damage was the same in all three groups . conclusion : mild cerebral hypothermia started during or immediately after external cpr improves neurologic recovery . 
hemorrhoidectomy during pregnancy : risk or relief ? acute hemorrhoidal crisis can occur in the pregnant female . when medical therapy fails to relieve pain , operative intervention may be necessary . the surgeon , however , may be reluctant to operate due to potential complications to the mother and fetus . from july 1983 to july 1989 , hemorrhoidectomy was performed in 25 of 12,455 pregnant women ( 0.2 percent ) who delivered in our institution . twenty-two women were in their third trimester , 80 percent were multiparous , and each had a remote history of hemorrhoidal symptoms , including intermittent pain , bleeding , and protrusion . closed hemorrhoidectomy was performed under local anesthesia . the surgery was directed at removing only symptomatic disease , which included three quadrants in 14 patients , two quadrants in seven patients , and one quadrant in four patients . all patients experienced relief of intractable pain the day after surgery , except one patient who required a hemostatic packing during the immediate post-operative period . there were no other maternal or fetal complications . subsequent follow-up for anorectal disease ranged from 6 months to 6 years . six ( 24 percent ) patients required additional hemorrhoid treatment . hemorrhoidectomy in selected pregnant patients is safe in our experience . 
trolox protects rat hepatocytes against oxyradical damage and the ischemic rat liver from reperfusion injury . trolox , a hydrophilic analog of vitamin e , was reported to scavenge peroxyl radicals from artificial systems better than its parent compound . here we examined the possible cytoprotective effect of trolox in cultured hepatocytes and in the rat liver . in cultured rat hepatocytes , 0.5 to 16 mmol/l trolox ( with optimum between 1 to 2 mmol/l ) was observed to prolong the survival of cells exposed to oxyradicals generated with xanthine oxidase-hypoxanthine . the protection by 1 mmol/l trolox surpassed that provided by either ascorbate , mannitol , superoxide dismutase and/or catalase -- each at a level giving its maximal protection in the same system . in both a global and partial model of hepatic ischemia-reperfusion in rats , infusion of trolox ( 7.5 to 10 mumol/kg body weight ) just before reflow reduced by greater than 80 % the liver necrosis sustained in untreated ( no trolox ) control rats . such organ salvage was apparently accompanied by approximately 50 % reduction in the amount of hepatic conjugated dienes , which were quantified by a highly specific radiochemical assay . since conjugated dienes are presumed to be good " markers " of oxyradical damage , our data may have provided a semiquantitative link between free radical-induced necrosis and its chemical imprint in vivo . the data also indicated a relatively rapid and potent antioxidant-like action by trolox on rat hepatocytes and on the postischemic reperfused rat liver . 
temporal relationship between the decrease in arterial pressure and sodium retention in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats with carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis . it has been proposed that the initial event of sodium retention in cirrhosis is a peripheral arteriolar vasodilation causing underfilling of the arterial vascular compartment and stimulation of the renin-aldosterone and sympathetic nervous systems . to test this hypothesis , systolic blood pressure , sodium balance and urinary excretion of sodium and aldosterone were sequentially measured in 13 conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats submitted to a cirrhosis induction program with carbon tetrachloride and phenobarbital and in 14 control hypertensive animals . no significant differences were found between control and cirrhotic rats in any of the measured parameters during the first 7 wk of the study . the eighth week sodium retention developed in cirrhotic rats as indicated by a positive sodium balance and a marked decrease of sodium excretion . at the same time a significant reduction in systolic blood pressure and a great increase in urinary excretion of aldosterone were detected . these changes were more marked the ninth week of the study . in cirrhotic rats there was a highly significant direct correlation between systolic blood pressure and urinary sodium excretion . postmortem examination showed a histological picture of cirrhosis in all animals given carbon tetrachloride and ascites in six of them . these results indicate that the onset of hyperaldosteronism and sodium retention in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats with carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis is chronologically related to a significant decrease in arterial pressure , thus supporting the " peripheral arterial vasodilation hypothesis " of ascites . 
adrenergic stimulation of renal prostanoids in the lyon hypertensive rat . young , genetically hypertensive lyon ( lh ) rats exhibited an increased renal in vivo turnover of norepinephrine and an elevated urinary excretion of thromboxane b2 when compared with normotensive ( ln ) and low blood pressure ( ll ) controls . therefore , the effects of norepinephrine ( 1.2 x 10 ( -8 ) to 9.6 x 10 ( -7 ) m ) and of phenylephrine ( 5 x 10 ( -8 ) to 1.9 x 10 ( -6 ) m ) on renal function and the urinary excretion of prostanoids were assessed in isolated perfused kidneys of 8-week-old lh , ln , and ll rats . in addition , the effects of norepinephrine were assessed before and during thromboxane a2/prostaglandin h2 receptor blockade by ah23848 ( 4 x 10 ( -6 ) m ) . before drug infusion , lh kidneys differed from those of ln and ll controls by having an elevated renal vascular resistance and a decreased natriuresis and glomerular filtration rate ; the urinary output of prostaglandin e2 and f2 alpha , of 6-ketoprostaglandin f1 alpha , and of thromboxane b2 was similar in the three strains . the constrictor effects of norepinephrine and phenylephrine were significantly increased in lh rat kidneys compared with ll but not with ln controls , and their pressure-natriuresis was markedly reduced . norepinephrine and phenylephrine induced a 10 - to 20-fold dose-dependent increase in the synthesis of the four prostanoids , which was more pronounced in lh than in ln and ll rats for thromboxane b2 only . ah23848 infusion significantly reduced the vascular effects of norepinephrine and increased the natriuretic response of lh but not of ln and ll rat kidneys . 
effects of antihypertensive therapy on mechanics of cerebral arterioles in rats . the purpose of this study was to examine effects of antihypertensive treatment on structure and mechanics of cerebral arterioles and the incidence of stroke in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shrsp ) . treatment of hypertension was begun at 3 months of age with cilazapril ( 45 mg/kg/day ) , an angiotensin converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitor , or with hydralazine ( 18 mg/kg/day ) . cilazapril and hydralazine reduced systolic arterial pressure ( from 195 + / - 8 to 125 + / - 5 and 148 + / - 3 mm hg , respectively [ mean + / - sem ] ; p less than 0.05 ) . to examine structure and mechanics of cerebral arterioles , we measured pressure ( servonull ) , external diameter , and cross-sectional area of the vessel wall ( histologically ) in pial arterioles of normotensive wistar-kyoto ( wky ) rats and shrsp that were untreated or that were treated for 3 months with cilazapril or with hydralazine . arterioles were maximally dilated with edta . in wky rats , cilazapril and hydralazine did not alter pial arteriolar pressure , external diameter , or cross-sectional area of the vessel wall . in shrsp , both cilazapril and hydralazine reduced cross-sectional area of the vessel wall to levels not significantly different from wky rats ( from 1,911 + / - 155 to 1,244 + / - 101 and 1,388 + / - 59 microns 2 , respectively , compared with 1,405 + / - 95 microns 2 for untreated wky rats ) . cilazapril was more effective than hydralazine in reducing pial arteriolar pressure ( from 110 + / - 6 to 62 + / - 2 mm hg with cilazapril versus 79 + / - 5 mm hg for hydralazine compared with 60 + / - 4 mm hg for untreated wky rats ) . cilazapril , but not hydralazine , attenuated reductions in external diameter of pial arterioles ( from 91 + / - 4 to 100 + / - 4 microns for cilazapril versus 91 + / - 3 microns for hydralazine compared with 107 + / - 3 microns for untreated wky rats ) . 
leukocyte counts and activation in spontaneously hypertensive and normotensive rats the etiology for the progressive organ injury in hypertension is largely speculative . recent studies have shown that leukocytes play a key role in several cardiovascular diseases . as an initial step toward investigating the role of leukocytes in hypertension , we measured leukocyte counts and spontaneous activation of granulocytes of freshly drawn unseparated blood samples in spontaneously hypertensive rats and in their normotensive counterpart , wistar-kyoto rats . the animals were derived from one breeder in the united states and from two breeders in europe . total leukocyte counts in young , mature , and old hypertensive rats were 50-100 % above the controls . the number of granulocytes in mature and old spontaneously hypertensive rats in more than 100 % elevated compared with control rats . in young hypertensive rats the mean granulocyte count was only slightly elevated . the number of spontaneously activated granulocytes , as detected by the nitroblue tetrazolium reduction , increases with age in both species ; in mature spontaneously hypertensive rats , it is more than 300 % above the values in the controls . furthermore , in mature hypertensive rats the number of monocytes , activated monocytes , and the lymphocyte count are also significantly elevated over the values in the normotensive controls . it is proposed that these elevated leukocyte counts may constitute an enhanced risk for organ injury in the spontaneously hypertensive rat . 
kinetic abnormalities of the red blood cell sodium-proton exchange in hypertensive patients . the present study was designed to examine the kinetics of na ( + ) - h + exchange in red blood cells of normotensive and hypertensive subjects and its relation to the previously reported abnormalities in na ( + ) - li + exchange . the na ( + ) - h + antiporter activation kinetics were studied by varying cell ph and measuring net na + influx ( mmol/l cell x hr = units ) driven by an outward h + gradient . the na ( + ) - li + exchange was determined at ph 7.4 as sodium-stimulated li + efflux . untreated hypertensive patients ( n = 30 ) had a higher maximal rate of na ( + ) - li + exchange ( 0.43 + / - 0.05 versus 0.26 + / - 0.02 units , p less than 0.0003 ) , a higher maximal rate of na ( + ) - h + exchange ( 62.3 + / - 6.2 versus 47 + / - 4 units ; p less than 0.02 ) , but a similar affinity for cell ph compared with normotensive subjects ( n = 46 ) . the cell ph activation of the na ( + ) - h + antiporter exhibited a lower hill coefficient than that of normotensive subjects ( 1.61 + / - 0.12 versus 2.56 + / - 0.14 ; p less than 0.0001 ) . this index of occupancy of internal h + regulatory sites was found reduced in most of the hypertensive patients ( 73 % ) whether their hypertension was untreated or treated . hypertensive patients with na ( + ) - li + exchange above 0.35 units ( 0.68 + / - 0.057 units , n = 16 ) did not exhibit elevated maximal rates of na ( + ) - h + exchange ( 57.3 + / - 10 units , ns ) in comparison with those with na ( + ) - li + exchange below 0.35 units ( 66.4 + / - 7.6 units , n = 26 ) , but both groups exhibited reduced hill coefficients . hypertensive patients with enhanced na ( + ) - h + exchange activity ( more than 90 units ) had normal maximal rates of na ( + ) - li + exchange . 
specific supersensitivity of the mesenteric vascular bed of dahl salt-sensitive rats . dahl salt-sensitive ( ds ) and salt-resistant ( dr ) rats were maintained on a diet containing normal ( 0.45 % ) or high ( 7 % ) salt for 5 days . the ds rats had slightly higher systolic blood pressures than dr rats , although a high salt diet failed to significantly elevate pressure in either group when compared with their appropriate ( low salt diet ) controls . the sensitivity of the isolated , perfused mesenteric vasculature from ds rats fed a high salt diet to nerve stimulation was greater when compared with all other groups in the presence or absence of cocaine ( 1 microm ) . a similar difference in sensitivity between high salt ds rats and high salt dr rats to bolus injections of norepinephrine was observed only in the presence of cocaine . the change in sensitivity was characterized by a leftward shift of the dose-response curve without a change in maximum response . no difference in sensitivity between the high salt ds group and any other treatment group was observed in response to the pressor agents kcl , angiotensin ii , 5-hydroxytryptamine or the depressor agent acetylcholine . these data indicate that ds rats on a short-term , high salt diet possess a significant and specific elevation in sensitivity to nerve stimulation and norepinephrine in the absence of an increase in blood pressure . differences in the effectiveness of cocaine among the groups suggest that differences may exist in neuronal uptake ( uptake 1 ) . 
high nacl diet enhances arterial baroreceptor reflex in nacl-sensitive spontaneously hypertensive rats . previous studies from our laboratory have shown that arterial baroreceptor reflex control of lumbar sympathetic nerve activity is blunted in the nacl-sensitive spontaneously hypertensive rat ( shr-s ) compared with either the nacl-resistant spontaneously hypertensive rat ( shr-r ) or the normotensive wistar-kyoto ( wky ) rat . in the current study , the effect of dietary nacl supplementation on arterial baroreceptor reflex control of lumbar sympathetic nerve activity and heart rate was assessed in shr-s and control shr-r and wky rats . male shr-s , shr-r , and wky rats were fed diets containing either 1 % or 8 % nacl beginning at 7 weeks of age and were studied at age 9-10 weeks . arterial baroreceptor reflex-mediated changes in lumbar sympathetic nerve activity and heart rate were recorded in conscious , unrestrained rats during phenylephrine-induced ( 15-40 micrograms/kg/min ) and nitroprusside-induced ( 15-300 micrograms/kg/min ) changes in mean arterial pressure . shr-s maintained on a 1 % nacl diet had blunted baroreceptor reflex control of lumbar sympathetic nerve activity during acute increases in map compared with shr-r and wky rats ( p less than 0.05 ) . after ingestion of the 8 % nacl diet , this blunting was absent , indicating enhancement of baroreceptor reflex control of lumbar sympathetic nerve activity . shr-s maintained on a 1 % nacl diet also had blunted arterial baroreceptor control of lumbar sympathetic nerve activity during nitroprusside-induced decreases in mean arterial pressure compared with wky rats , but this was not significantly altered during ingestion of the 8 % nacl diet . 
effect of age on coronary circulation after imposition of pressure-overload in rats . we examined the effects of pressure overload on coronary circulation in young adult ( 7 months old ) and old rats ( 18 months old ) . four weeks after the ascending aorta was banded , in vivo left ventricular pressure was measured to estimate the degree of pressure load . in the two age groups , similar increases in peak left ventricular pressure were observed ( 113 + / - 7 mm hg in sham-operated rats versus 160 + / - 11 mm hg in banded rats of the young adult group ; 103 + / - 7 mm hg in sham-operated rats versus 156 + / - 11 mm hg in banded rats of the old group ) . after isolating the hearts , they were perfused with tyrode 's solution containing bovine red blood cells and albumin . resting coronary perfusion pressure-flow relations and reactive hyperemic response after a 40-second ischemia were obtained under beating but nonworking conditions . in young adult banded rats , significant myocardial hypertrophy was observed at the organ level ( 124 % of controls in left ventricular dry weight/body weight ratio ; 119 % in left ventricular dry weight/tibial length ratio ) and at the cell level . minimal coronary vascular resistance obtained by the perfusion pressure-peak flow relation during reactive hyperemia increased to 150 % of controls , and coronary flow reserve decreased significantly . in contrast , myocardial hypertrophy was not observed at the organ or cell level in old banded rats . however , minimal coronary vascular resistance increased , and flow reserve decreased significantly . thus , pressure overload with coronary arterial hypertension caused abnormalities of the coronary circulation in old subjects even in the absence of myocardial hypertrophy . 
systolic hypertension of the elderly program ( shep ) . part 10 : analysis . the shep is a randomized , placebo-controlled trial that will follow standard clinical trial principles in analyzing data relating to its proposed hypotheses . the protocol has stated a priori the main objective as well as the secondary subgroup hypotheses . sample size calculations for shep have accounted for dropins to and drop-outs from active therapy as well as for the risk of nonstroke death . the sample size achieved ( 4,736 participants ) should be adequate to address the proposed questions . monitoring procedures have been described and established . a data and safety monitoring board that uses these procedures is closely following the data from the trial . the board will periodically examine the data to determine whether termination of the study is warranted . 
arterial mechanical properties in dilated cardiomyopathy . aging and the response to nitroprusside . the effects of aging on arterial mechanical properties and the response to nitroprusside were examined in 25 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy . high-fidelity pressures were recorded with a multisensor catheter . pulse wave velocity was determined between two sensors in the thoracic aorta . arterial compliance was determined by an analysis of the diastolic waveform and cardiac output . at baseline , despite a similar systemic vascular resistance , the pulsatile load ( e.g. , arterial compliance ) and wave transmission characteristics ( e.g. , pulse wave velocity ) were altered with aging . arterial compliance was reduced in older ( greater than 50 yr , n = 8 ) versus younger ( less than 35 yr , n = 8 ) patients ( 0.51 + / - 0.17 vs. 1.33 + / - 0.63 ml/mmhg , p less than 0.01 ) and intermediate in those 35-50 yr of age ( n = 9 , 0.72 + / - 0.40 ml/mmhg ) . there was a positive correlation between age and pulse wave velocity ( r = +0.90 ) . nitroprusside infusion decreased resistance , increased arterial compliance , and lowered pulse wave velocity in all groups . yet , advancing age was associated with a greater fall in wave velocity for a given fall in aortic pressure . the slope ( k ) of the relation between pulse wave velocity and aortic diastolic pressure progressively increased with age ( 0.01 + / - 0.03 , 0.06 + / - 0.02 , and 0.09 + / - 0.03 m/s-mmhg ) . multiple linear regression analysis revealed a significant relation between k and age . these data demonstrate that in older patients with dilated cardiomyopathy the left ventricle is coupled to an arterial circulation that has a greater pulsatile load , despite a similar steady load . furthermore , these age-related changes in the arterial system affect the hemodynamic response to pharmacologically-induced vasodilatation . 
diastolic dysfunction in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . effect on active force generation during systole . we tested the hypothesis that intracellular ca + + [ ( ca + + ] i ) overload underlies the diastolic dysfunction of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . myocardial tissue was obtained at the time of surgery or transplantation from patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and was compared with control myocardium obtained from patients without heart disease . the isometric contractions and electrophysiologic properties of all myocardial specimens were recorded by standard techniques and [ ca + + ] i was measured with the bioluminescent calcium indicator aequorin . in contrast to the controls , action potentials , ca + + transients , and isometric contraction and relaxation were markedly prolonged in the hypertrophic myocardium , and the ca + + transients consisted of two distinct components . at 38 degrees c and 1 hz pacing frequency , a state of relative ca + + overload appeared develop , which produced a rise in end-diastolic [ ca + + ] i , incomplete relaxation , and fusion of twitches with a resultant decrease in active tension development . we also found that drugs with increase [ ca + + ] i , such as digitalis , exacerbated these abnormalities , whereas drugs that lower [ ca + + ] i , such as verapamil , or agents that increase cyclic amp , such as forskolin , prevented them . these results may explain why patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy tolerate tachycardia poorly , and may have important implications with regard to the pharmacologic treatment of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . 
epidermotropic eccrine porocarcinoma . three cases of epidermotropic eccrine porocarcinoma are summarized and compared with reported cases . all patients had a long-standing tumor on a lower extremity that rapidly metastasized to the skin and proximal lymph nodes . the histologic picture was consistent with an intraepidermal eccrine sweat gland carcinoma . 
unfading acral microlivedo . a discrete marker of thrombotic skin disease associated with antiphospholipid antibody syndrome . small erythematous or cyanotic lesions on the hands and feet of four patients with antiphospholipid antibodies are described . these discrete lesions outline capillaries and do not disappear when pressure is applied . the histologic features are identical to those described in skin thrombotic syndrome associated with antiphospholipid antibodies , that is , microthrombi in dermal vessels without inflammation . in addition to indicating antiphospholipid antibodies in apparently healthy patients , this sign could be a marker of risk for large-vessel thrombosis . 
cutaneous manifestations in patients with essential thrombocythemia . in a retrospective study of 268 patients with essential thrombocythemia , related cutaneous manifestations were found in 58 ( 22 % ) . in 27 cases ( 10 % ) the related skin lesions were present at the time of the primary diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia . hematomas , ecchymoses , petechiae , or purpura occurred in 24 ( 41 % ) of the 58 patients . fifteen patients ( 26 % ) had erythromelalgia , in 11 of whom it was the initial complaint . livedo reticularis , recurrent superficial thrombophlebitis , ischemic complications with gangrene , leg ulcers , or ulcers on the toes were other manifestations . urticaria occurred in two patients , and raynaud 's phenomenon and necrotizing vasculitis were each observed in one patient . platelet function may be abnormal , and this was found in 13 of 19 patients studied , 9 of whom had spontaneous platelet aggregation . knowledge of the cutaneous manifestations in essential thrombocythemia may lead to its earlier detection . prompt diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia is important because treatment may prevent severe hemorrhagic or thrombotic events . 
round fingerpad sign : an early sign of scleroderma . we describe a clinical skin sign in scleroderma termed round fingerpad sign . this term refers to disappearance of the peaked contour on fingerpads and replacement with a hemisphere-like fingertip contour ; this change is especially apparent on the ring fingers . a positive round fingerpad sign was found in 72 of 72 ring fingers in 36 patients with progressive systemic sclerosis in 69 of 72 ring fingers in patients with mixed connective tissue disease , and in 24 of 24 ring fingers of patients with raynaud 's phenomenon and sclerodactyly . in contrast , a negative round fingerpad sign was seen in 240 of 240 fingers in normal women ( controls ) . the high sensitivity of this sign is noteworthy . a positive round fingerpad was seen in sign not only typical scleroderma patients but also in groups with less severe skin sclerosis ( i.e. , in those patients with mixed connective tissue disease or those with raynaud 's phenomenon and sclerodactyly ) . the sign is a new and useful clinical marker for the early diagnosis of scleroderma . 
thrombotic vasculopathy associated with cryofibrinogenemia . cryofibrinogenemia refers to the presence of cold-precipitable plasma proteins associated with a variety of disorders , including malignancies , inflammatory processes , and thrombohemorrhagic phenomena . few cases of essential or primary cryofibrinogenemia are reported . we report a case in a 48-year-old man of essential cryofibrinogenemia and hemorrhagic necrosis of the ears and of the upper and lower extremities . histopathologic studies demonstrated extensive eosinophilic thrombi in the dermal vasculature , with minimal inflammation and no vasculitis . cryofibrinogenemia should be considered in the investigation of patients with otherwise unexplained cold intolerance and dermal thrombosis associated with minimal or no inflammation . 
perioperative myocardial ischemia in patients undergoing noncardiac surgery -- i : incidence and severity during the 4 day perioperative period . the study of perioperative ischemia ( spi ) research group . to determine the incidence and characteristics of perioperative myocardial ischemia , the electrocardiographic ( ecg ) changes consistent with ischemia during the 4 day perioperative period were documented and characterized in 100 patients with or at risk for coronary artery disease undergoing noncardiac surgery . using continuous two channel ecg monitoring ( leads cc5 and cm5 ) , the frequency and severity of ecg ischemic episodes defined by st segment depression greater than or equal to 1 mm or elevation greater than or equal to 2 mm during the preoperative ( up to 2 days ) , intraoperative and early postoperative ( first 2 days ) periods were compared . preoperatively , 28 patients ( 28 % ) exhibited 105 episodes of ischemia ; intraoperatively , 27 patients exhibited 39 episodes and postoperatively , 42 patients exhibited 187 episodes . there was no difference between the pre - and intraoperative episode characteristics . however , postoperative ischemic episodes were the most severe . the mean st change was 1.5 , 2 and 2.6 mm for pre - , intra - and postoperative episodes , respectively ( p less than 0.0001 postoperative versus pre - or intraoperative ) ; duration of ischemic episodes was 69 , 45 and 207 min , respectively ( p less than 0.005 postoperative versus preoperative , p less than 0.001 versus intraoperative ) and area under the st curve was 88 , 74 and 383 mm.min ( p less than 0.009 postoperative versus preoperative , p less than 0.005 versus intraoperative ) . ninety-four percent of all postoperative ischemic episodes were silent ; 80 % of all episodes occurred without acute change ( + / - 20 % of control ) in heart rate and 77 % of intraoperative episodes occurred without acute change in blood pressure . 
perioperative myocardial ischemia in patients undergoing noncardiac surgery -- ii : incidence and severity during the 1st week after surgery . the study of perioperative ischemia ( spi ) research group . because of the importance of postoperative myocardial ischemia and because substantial physiologic changes can occur for prolonged periods postoperatively , the incidence , severity and temporal course of myocardial ischemia were studied in 100 high risk patients during the 1st week after major noncardiac surgery . electrocardiographic ( ecg ) changes consistent with ischemia were continuously monitored using ambulatory solid state ecg in the 100 patients with or at risk for coronary artery disease . ischemic episodes were defined as reversible st segment depression greater than or equal to 1 mm or elevation greater than or equal to 2 mm above the baseline value , with the baseline adjusted for respiratory and positional variation and temporal drift . all ischemic episodes were confirmed by three independent blinded investigators using hard-copy recordings . total ecg monitoring time was 10,445 h. twenty-seven patients ( 27 % ) developed 437 episodes of ischemia during the 1st week after surgery . the total duration of ischemia was 18,658 min , or 1.8 min of ischemia/h monitored . ischemia was most severe during the early ( days 0 to 3 ) versus late ( days 4 to 7 ) postoperative period : 284 versus 153 episodes ; 2.2 versus 1.2 min of ischemia/h . the greatest severity occurred on postoperative day 3 : 109 episodes , 3.4 min of ischemia/h monitored , 1.5 mm mean st change and 130 min mean duration . however , in 8 % of patients , severe episodes also occurred late : postoperative day 6 = 44 episodes , 1.7 min of ischemia/h monitored , 1.3 mm mean st change ( 59 % greater than or equal to 2 mm ) and 92 min mean duration . most ischemic episodes ( 57 % ) were associated with tachycardia . 
influence of right bundle branch block on short - and long-term survival after acute anterior myocardial infarction the impact of right bundle branch block on long-term prognosis after anterior wall myocardial infarction is unclear . in 932 patients with q wave anterior infarction , the short - and long-term prognostic significance of the presence of right bundle branch block was analyzed . compared with 754 patients without block , 178 patients with right bundle branch block after myocardial infarction showed an increased incidence of left ventricular failure ( 72 % versus 52 % , p less than 0.001 ) and increased in-hospital ( 32 % versus 8 % , p less than 0.001 ) and 1 year after hospital discharge ( 17 % versus 7 % , p less than 0.001 ) cardiac mortality rates . the presence of right bundle branch block was an independent predictor of increased in-hospital and 1-year mortality when entered in a multivariate analysis . however , the absence of left ventricular failure identified a subgroup of patients with right bundle branch block with low in-hospital ( 4 % ) and 1 year postdischarge ( 5 % ) cardiac mortality rates comparable with those of patients with neither failure nor right bundle branch block ( 1.7 % and 4.8 % , respectively ) . in the presence of left ventricular failure , patients with associated right bundle branch block had higher in-hospital ( 43 % versus 14 % , p less than 0.01 ) and 1 year postdischarge ( 24 % versus 9 % , p less than 0.01 ) cardiac mortality rates than those of patients with failure but no right bundle branch block . thus , the presence of right bundle branch block after anterior myocardial infarction is an independent marker of poor prognosis . 
thrombosis-related markers in unstable angina pectoris . while thrombus formation has been implicated in the pathogenesis of unstable angina , the value of thrombus-related markers for distinguishing unstable from stable angina is not well defined . fibrin d-dimer and plasminogen activator inhibitor were prospectively analyzed in the peripheral blood of 46 patients ( 26 with unstable angina and 20 with stable angina or normal coronary arteries ) . baseline blood samples were drawn within 24 h after rest pain in patients with unstable angina and in 19 of these 26 patients in less than 6 h. in patients with unstable angina , mean + / - sd ( median ) values for fibrin d-dimer and plasminogen activator inhibitor values measured 0.09 + / - 0.06 ( 0.07 ) microgram/ml and 9.1 + / - 9.6 ( 5.9 ) iu , respectively , compared to 0.11 + / - 0.10 ( 0.05 ) microgram/ml and 5.5 + / - 1.9 ( 5.0 ) iu/ml , in patients in the control group ( p = ns for all comparisons between the two groups ) . recurrent in-hospital pain , coronary anatomy and need for intervention showed no relation to the levels of these markers . in 19 additional patients ( 9 with unstable angina and 10 control patients ) samples from the coronary sinus and the peripheral blood were also analyzed . again , in patients with unstable angina all samples were drawn less than 24 h after rest pain ; in six of nine patients samples were drawn in less than 6 h. a coronary sinus to peripheral blood gradient for either of these markers could not be demonstrated . the differences between peripheral and coronary sinus d-dimer and plasminogen activator inhibitor concentrations were also similar in patients with unstable angina and control patients . 
effect of abrupt mitral regurgitation after balloon valvuloplasty on myocardial load and performance . the concept that mitral regurgitation masks myocardial dysfunction by reducing afterload and augmenting ejection performance has not been well established in humans . the effect of abruptly produced mitral regurgitation on left ventricular loading and performance was therefore evaluated in five patients who developed this complication after an otherwise successful percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty . mitral valve area by gorlin formula calculated with forward flow increased from 0.92 + / - 0.14 to 2.75 + / - 0.82 cm2 . mean left atrial pressure did not decrease ( 19 + / - 4 to 19 + / - 6 mm hg ) . the size of the left atrial v wave relative to mean left atrial pressure ( peak v - mean left atrial pressure ) increased from 7 + / - 4 to 19 + / - 6 mm hg . angiographic mitral regurgitation increased from 0 + or 1 + to greater than 3 + in each patient and regurgitant fraction increased from 0.23 + / - 0.11 to 0.55 + / - 0.09 ( p less than 0.01 ) . end-diastolic volume increased modestly from 148 + / - 15 to 159 + / - 15 ml ( p = ns ) . heart rate increased from 54 + / - 5 to 71 + / - 8 beats/min ( p less than 0.05 ) , which may have prevented further increases in preload by shortening the filling period . end-systolic stress decreased by 32 % from 277 + / - 34 to 188 + / - 52 kdyn/cm2 ( p less than 0.01 ) as a result of a 25 % decrease in end-systolic pressure from 121 + / - 8 to 91 + / - 7 mm hg and a 16 % decrease in end-systolic volume from 67 + / - 13 to 56 + / - 8 ml ( p = ns ) . 
coronary vasodilation is impaired in both hypertrophied and nonhypertrophied myocardium of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy : a study with nitrogen-13 ammonia and positron emission tomography . to assess regional coronary reserve in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy , regional myocardial blood flow was measured in 23 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and 12 control subjects by means of nitrogen-13 ammonia and dynamic positron emission tomography . in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy at baseline study , regional myocardial blood flow was 1.14 + / - 0.43 ml/min per g in the hypertrophied ( 20 + / - 3 mm ) interventricular septum and 0.90 + / - 0.35 ml/min per g ( p less than 0.05 versus septal flow ) in the nonhypertrophied ( 10 + / - 2 mm ) left ventricular free wall . these were not statistically different from the corresponding values in control subjects ( 1.04 + / - 0.25 and 0.91 + / - 0.21 ml/min per g , respectively , p = ns ) . after pharmacologically induced coronary vasodilation ( dipyridamole , 0.56 mg/kg intravenously over 4 min ) , regional myocardial blood flow in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy increased significantly less than in control subjects both in the septum ( 1.63 + / - 0.58 versus 2.99 + / - 1.06 ml/min per g , p less than 0.001 ) and in the free wall ( 1.47 + / - 0.58 versus 2.44 + / - 0.82 ml/min per g , p less than 0.001 ) . in addition , patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy who had a history of chest pain had more pronounced impairment of coronary vasodilator reserve than did those without a history of chest pain . after dipyridamole , coronary resistance in the septum decreased by 38 % in patients without a history of chest pain , but decreased by only 14 % in those with such a history ( p less than 0.05 ) . coronary resistance in the free wall decreased by 45 % in patients without and by 27 % in those with a history of chest pain ( p = 0.06 ) . 
mechanisms for left ventricular systolic dysfunction in aortic regurgitation : importance for predicting the functional response to aortic valve replacement to test the hypothesis that the combined use of the time-varying elastance concept and conventional circumferential stress-shortening relations would elucidate differential mechanisms for left ventricular systolic dysfunction in severe , chronic aortic regurgitation and therefore predict the functional responses to aortic valve replacement , 31 control patients and 37 patients with aortic regurgitation were studied . the studies included micromanometer left ventricular pressure determinations , biplane contrast cineangiograms under control conditions and radionuclide angiograms under control conditions and during methoxamine or nitroprusside infusions with right atrial pacing . the patients with aortic regurgitation were classified into three groups : group i had normal emax and stress-shortening relations , group ii had abnormal emax but normal stress-shortening relations and group iii had abnormal emax and stress-shortening relations . the left ventricular end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes showed a progressive increase and the ejection fraction showed a progressive decrease from group i to iii ; these values differed from those in the control patients ( p less than 0.001 ) . in group i , there was a decrease in left ventricular volumes ( p less than 0.05 ) but no significant change in ejection fraction ( 61 + / - 7 % versus 63 + / - 4 % ) after aortic valve replacement . in contrast , in group ii , reduction in left ventricular volumes ( p less than 0.01 ) was associated with an increase in ejection fraction from 50 + / - 8 % to 64 + / - 11 % ( p less than 0.01 ) . finally , in group iii , reduction in left ventricular volumes ( p less than 0.05 ) was associated with a further decrement in ejection fraction from 35 + / - 13 % to 30 + / - 13 % . group i patients had compensated adequately for chronic volume overload . however , group ii had left ventricular dysfunction that was associated with an increase in the left ventricular volume/mass ratio compared with that in the control patients and group i ( p less than 0.05 for both ) , suggesting inadequate hypertrophy and assumption of spherical geometry . finally , irreversible myocardial dysfunction had supervened in group iii . in conclusion , a combined analysis of left ventricular chamber performance using the time-varying elastance concept and myocardial performance using conventional circumferential stress-shortening relations provides complementary information that elucidates differential mechanisms for left ventricular systolic dysfunction and therefore predicts the functional response to aortic valve replacement . 
impact of orifice geometry on the shape of jets : an in vitro doppler color flow study . to investigate the influence of orifice geometry on the three-dimensional shape of jets , an in vitro doppler color flow study was performed . jets were formed by discharging blood through round orifices and through orifices with major/minor axis ratios of 2:1 , 3:1 and 5:1 . these were repeated with orifice areas of 0.1 , 0.3 and 0.5 cm2 . for turbulent and laminar jets formed by these orifices , doppler color flow images were obtained from two orthogonal scanning planes aligned with the major and minor orifice axes . jet width was measured at 1 cm intervals from 0 to 5 cm from the orifice and used to calculate jet eccentricity ( ratio of major to minor axis widths ) and the rate of divergence of the jet walls . jets were observed to diverge more rapidly along walls aligned with the orifice minor axis rather than along the major axis . this differential spreading led to the development of circular symmetry at a short distance from the orifice . jet divergence ( theta ) occurred more rapidly for turbulent jets and for jets formed by larger orifices : theta ( zero ) = 0.80 + 6.3 . a + 7.0 . t + 0.47.e-or ( r = 95 , p less than 0.0001 , n = 48 ) , where a is orifice area ( cm2 ) ; t is 0 for laminar jets , 1 for turbulent jets and e-or combines orifice eccentricity and scanning orientation , ranging from -5 for 5:1 orifices imaged along the major axis , 0 for circular orifices to 5 for 5:1 orifices imaged along the minor axis . within the jet , eccentricity decayed approximately exponentially with distance from the orifice , more rapidly for turbulent jets , more slowly for the larger and more eccentric orifices . 
patient age and results of balloon aortic valvuloplasty : the mansfield scientific registry experience . the mansfield scientific aortic valvuloplasty registry investigators . patients enrolled in the mansfield scientific aortic valvuloplasty registry were followed up a mean of 7 months after balloon aortic valvuloplasty . results were compared for patients less than 70 , 70 to 79 and greater than or equal to 80 years of age at time of valvuloplasty . as assessed by aortic valve area indexed to body surface area , stenosis was more severe in the older patients and the incidence of congestive heart failure was also greater in those aged greater than or equal to 80 years . the results of valvuloplasty were comparable in all three age groups , and indexed final valve area was not significantly different among the groups . in-hospital mortality ranged from 4.2 % to 9.4 % , but this and other complications were not significantly different among the groups . total 7 month mortality was 23 % . as performed in this registry study , balloon aortic valvuloplasty produced similar results in older and younger patients , despite initially more severe disease in the older patients . 
drug response at electropharmacologic study in patients with ventricular tachyarrhythmias : the importance of ventricular refractoriness . the clinical and electrophysiologic predictors of successful antiarrhythmic drug therapy for patients with inducible ventricular tachycardia were evaluated in 59 consecutive patients undergoing serial electropharmacologic trials . structural heart disease was less frequently present in patients for whom effective therapy was found ( p less than 0.05 ) . the presence of coronary artery disease and a history of prior myocardial infarction were significantly more frequently present in patients for whom antiarrhythmic drug therapy could not be found ( p less than 0.05 ) . the corrected qt interval and ventricular effective refractory period measured at a pacing cycle length of 400 ms were significantly shorter in responders compared with nonresponders ( qt interval 428 + / - 52 versus 460 + / - 59 ms ; ventricular effective refractory period 237 + / - 28 versus 254 + / - 24 ms ; ( p less than 0.05 ) . in addition , the interelectrogram coupling interval of the ventricular extrastimulus initiating ventricular tachycardia was significantly shorter in responders compared with nonresponders ( 223 + / - 37 versus 251 + / - 33 ms ; p = 0.003 ) . logistic regression analysis identified a short ventricular interelectrogram coupling interval ( p less than 0.01 ) and absence of prior myocardial infarction ( p less than 0.05 ) as the only independent predictors of antiarrhythmic drug suppression of the induction of ventricular tachycardia . greater drug-induced increments in the ventricular effective and functional refractory periods were observed in responders than in nonresponders as was the shortest ventricular interelectrogram coupling interval . thus , baseline electrophysiologic measurements identify patients with inducible ventricular tachycardia who are likely to respond to antiarrhythmic drug therapy . furthermore , these patients demonstrate greater drug-induced electrophysiologic changes . 
morphologic comparison of patients with mitral valve prolapse who died suddenly with patients who died from severe valvular dysfunction or other conditions . clinical and necropsy findings are described in 56 patients with mitral valve prolapse : 15 patients , aged 16 to 69 years ( mean 39 ) , died suddenly and mitral valve prolapse was the only cardiac condition found at necropsy ( hereafter called isolated mitral valve prolapse ) ; the remaining 41 patients had other conditions that were capable of being fatal . of the latter 41 patients , 7 , aged 17 to 59 years ( mean 45 ) , had associated congenital heart disease , and 34 patients , aged 17 to 70 years ( mean 52 ) , had no associated congenital cardiac abnormalities . compared with the 34 patients without associated congenital heart disease and with nonmitral valve prolapse conditions capable in themselves of being fatal , the 15 patients who died suddenly with isolated mitral valve prolapse were younger ( mean age 39 + / - 17 versus 52 + / - 15 years ; p = 0.01 ) , more often women ( 67 % versus 26 % ; p = 0.008 ) and had a lower frequency of mitral regurgitation ( 7 % versus 38 % ; p = 0.02 ) . the 15 patients dying suddenly with isolated mitral valve prolapse also were less likely to have evidence of ruptured chordae tendineae ( 29 % versus 67 % ; p = 0.04 ) . the frequency of increased heart weight ( 67 % versus 59 % ) , a dilated mitral valve anulus ( 80 % versus 81 % ) , a dilated tricuspid valve anulus ( 17 % versus 17 % ) , an elongated anterior mitral leaflet ( 86 % versus 54 % ) , an elongated posterior mitral leaflet ( 79 % versus 77 % ) and fibrous endocardial plaque under the posterior mitral leaflet ( 73 % versus 63 % ) was similar between the two groups . the severity of the prolapse ( mild 20 % versus 11 % ; moderate 27 % versus 58 % ; severe 53 % versus 32 % ) also was similar between the two groups . thus , persons with mitral valve prolapse dying suddenly without another recognized condition tend to be relatively young women without mitral regurgitation . 
tricuspid atresia or severe stenosis with partial common atrioventricular canal : anatomic data , clinical profile and surgical considerations . the anatomic findings in 11 cases of tricuspid atresia and in two cases of severe tricuspid stenosis , both combined with partial common atrioventricular ( av ) canal , are presented in detail . twelve cases were documented by postmortem examination and the diagnosis was confirmed by echocardiography and surgical observation in the one living patient . clinical data available in nine cases and cardiac catheterization data obtained in eight are included in this report . in three cases ( 23 % ) -- two with tricuspid atresia and one with extreme tricuspid stenosis -- the tricuspid valve and right ventricle exhibited characteristics seen in ebstein 's anomaly . in all 13 cases , the great arteries were normally related . the ventricular septal defect ( s ) in 10 ( 83 % ) of the 12 postmortem cases rapidly became smaller and this resulted in marked diminution of the pulmonary blood flow and severe hypoxia . only three of the eight patients with available cardiac catheterization and angiocardiographic data showed the scooped-out appearance of the left ventricular septal surface characteristic of av canal defects . by contrast , two-dimensional echocardiography , available in the three most recent cases , accurately demonstrated all the defects present and represents the diagnostic method of choice . early surgical intervention to establish a systemic to pulmonary artery anastomosis is essential for survival . more definitive surgical treatment can be achieved later by an atriopulmonary or cavopulmonary anastomosis with or without replacement of the cleft and often regurgitant mitral valve . the one living patient exemplifies this approach . this is the largest series of this unusual type of tricuspid atresia reported to date . 
tricuspid valve dysplasia or displacement in intrauterine life . in 450 cases of structural heart disease diagnosed prenatally , 38 fetuses ( 8.5 % ) had either a dysplastic or a displaced tricuspid valve . the tricuspid valve was dysplastic in 22 fetuses , all of which had evidence of tricuspid regurgitation resulting in right atrial dilation and increased cardiothoracic ratio . an associated abnormality of the pulmonary valve occurred in 16 fetuses . the remaining 16 fetuses had ebstein 's malformation , 14 with evidence of tricuspid incompetence at presentation and 10 with an associated abnormality of the pulmonary valve . of the 38 cases , the pregnancy was interrupted in 17 , spontaneous intrauterine fetal death occurred in 8 , 11 infants died postnatally and 2 infants are still alive ; additional abnormalities were found in 8 cases ( chromosomal anomalies in 2 , ventricular septal defects in 2 , corrected transposition in 2 , the chiari malformation in 2 , supraventricular tachycardia in 1 case and coarctation of the aorta in 1 ) . fetuses with severe abnormalities are selected for fetal echocardiography by the four chamber screening program and a high rate of natural loss both in intrauterine life and immediately after birth was observed in the 21 cases in which pregnancy was continued . this would explain the higher incidence of tricuspid valve disease in our prenatal compared with postnatal series . although increased cardiothoracic ratio and associated lesions of the right ventricular outflow tract contribute to the poor outcome in the cases detected prenatally , the absence of these features does not always indicate a good prognosis because progression of disease can occur with advancing gestational age . no absolute measurement or single echocardiographic feature emerged as a consistent predictive factor of prognosis . 
aortico-left ventricular tunnel : long-term outcome after surgical repair . over a 14 year period , four children ( three male , one female ) underwent surgical correction of an aortico-left ventricular tunnel . all presented in infancy ( age range 5 days to 9 months ) . the presenting feature was a systolic and diastolic murmur in all , one of whom developed heart failure within 2 weeks of presentation . in the first two patients , the echocardiographic findings were inconclusive and the diagnosis was confirmed at cardiac catheterization ( at 10 and 23 months of age , respectively ) ; the other two were diagnosed echocardiographically by two-dimensional and doppler color flow imaging . all four patients underwent surgery by patch closure of the aortic end of the tunnel ( three patients ) or direct suture closure ( one patient ) and there were no deaths . the mean age at operation was 11 months . during a mean follow-up period of 71 months ( range 2 to 157 ) , three patients have clinical and echocardiographic evidence of trivial aortic valve regurgitation , which was noted in the immediate postoperative period in one and at early ( less than 6 months ) follow-up study in the other two . all are symptom-free , are taking no medications and are growing and developing normally . aortico-left ventricular tunnel can be accurately diagnosed by echocardiography . in patients presenting in infancy , echocardiography also provides the necessary morphologic information to enable surgical correction without angiography . early operation is associated with an excellent outcome , whereas repair at a later age is associated with a high incidence of residual aortic regurgitation requiring further surgery . 
anti-ischemic effects of atenolol versus nifedipine in patients with coronary artery disease and ambulatory silent ischemia . the anti-ischemic effects of atenolol and nifedipine were compared in a randomized double-blind crossover manner in 24 patients with stable exertional angina and transient silent ischemia during ambulatory electrocardiographic ( ecg ) monitoring . both atenolol and nifedipine were effective ( p less than 0.005 ) in reducing the average number and duration of transient ischemic events , but therapy with atenolol was associated with a significantly greater reduction in the mean number ( p less than 0.05 ) and duration ( p less than 0.01 ) of silent ischemic events . analyses of the silent ischemic activity during the morning hours revealed that only therapy with atenolol produced a significant reduction in the average duration per patient ( 139 + / - 54 vs. 1,609 + / - 468 s , p less than 0.01 ) and in the average duration of silent ischemia per event between 6 am and 12 noon ( 62 + / - 21 vs. 208 + / - 24 s , p less than 0.005 ) . there were fewer adverse experiences during therapy with atenolol . these results show that although both atenolol and nifedipine are effective in reducing silent ischemic events , treatment with atenolol is associated with significantly greater efficacy , particularly on the morning surge of silent myocardial ischemia . 
sinus node-atrioventricular node isolation : long-term results with the " corridor " operation for atrial fibrillation the " corridor " operation is designed to restore sinus rhythm to patients with atrial fibrillation by electrically isolating the sinus node , a band of atrial tissue and the atrioventricular ( av ) node from the remaining atrial tissue . nine patients with drug-refractory atrial fibrillation underwent this operation ; four patients had chronic atrial fibrillation and five had paroxysmal atrial fibrillation ; the mean duration of symptoms was 12 + / - 8 years . patient ages ranged from 25 to 68 years ( mean 48 + / - 12 ) . at preoperative electrophysiologic study , no patient had evidence of an accessory av pathway or av node reentry . sinus node recovery time could not be determined in five patients because of recurrent atrial fibrillation during or before programmed stimulation . at operation the corridor of atrial tissue connecting the sinus and av nodes was successfully isolated from the remaining left and right atrial tissue in all patients . one patient required early reoperation for recurrent atrial fibrillation before hospital discharge . at the predischarge electrophysiologic study , the corridor remained isolated in all patients except for one patient who had intermittent conduction between the corridor and excluded right atrium . one patient had nonsustained atrial fibrillation and one had atrial tachycardia evident in the corridor . atypical av node reentry of uncertain significance was induced in one other patient . over a total follow-up of 191 patient months ( mean 21 + / - 20 ) , seven patients remained free of atrial fibrillation . two patients had recurrent atrial fibrillation , which in one patient was effectively controlled by a single antiarrhythmic agent . a permanent pacemaker was implanted in four patients for sinus node dysfunction . 
value of ventricular electrogram recordings in the diagnosis of arrhythmias precipitating electrical device shock therapy . an antitachycardia pacemaker-cardioverter-defibrillator that is capable of storing ventricular electrograms before and after delivery of device shock therapy was implanted in 16 patients . three of the patients experienced out-of-hospital device shock therapy preceded by minimal symptoms . although limitations of electrogram analysis exist and are discussed , careful analysis and registration of electrograms during all supraventricular and ventricular rhythms observed during in-hospital testing served as an important reference for subsequent arrhythmia diagnosis . by analyzing the electrogram rate and rr interval stability and configuration , a definitive diagnosis was established in all three patients ( atrial fibrillation , polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and rate-sensing lead disruption , respectively ) . thus , the ability to store ventricular electrograms before shock therapy represents a major advance in the management of patients who receive an electrical device to treat ventricular tachyarrhythmia . 
smooth muscle cell proliferation and restenosis after stand alone coronary excimer laser angioplasty it has been shown that coronary excimer laser angioplasty can remove atherosclerotic intracoronary tissue . stand alone coronary excimer laser angioplasty was successfully performed in a 53 year old white man with 90 % stenosis of the left anterior descending coronary artery and exertional angina ( canadian cardiovascular society class iii ) . the lesion was reduced to a 30 % residual stenosis with use of a 1.2 mm and subsequently a 1.8 mm diameter laser catheter . early follow-up angiography 24 h later revealed persistent patency and unchanged lesion diameter of the target vessel . the patient was free of symptoms during the 2 month follow-up period , but died suddenly while playing in a tennis tournament 63 days after the procedure . postmortem histologic examination revealed 80 % restenosis at the lesion site without plaque disruption or thrombosis . specific staining of the histologic specimen for smooth muscle cells using alpha-actin revealed significant smooth muscle cell proliferation at the site of coronary excimer laser angioplasty . however , most of the vessel narrowing appeared to be due to underlying fibrotic plaque as a result of insufficient tissue ablation . this was probably related to the size of the currently available catheters , which are too small to create a large channel . 
life events and difficulties preceding stroke . life events and difficulties were recorded for the year before stroke , using a standardised semi-structured interview , in 113 surviving patients seen after their first ever in a lifetime stroke . an age and sex-matched control group ( n = 109 ) was also interviewed about the preceding year . the stroke patients reported fewer non-threatening events and events with only a short-term threat , while difficulties were reported with equal frequency by the two groups . however , events which were severely threatening in the long-term were significantly more common in the stroke patients ( in the 52 weeks before stroke 26 % versus 13 % , odds ratio 2.3 , 95 % confidence interval 1.1-4 .9 ) . the increased rate was apparent throughout the year and not just in the weeks immediately before stroke onset . the number of stroke patients experiencing severe events in the follow up year fell to the level found in the control group . recognised risk factors for stroke were found equally in those patients with and without severe events before onset , except that hypertension was rather less common in the patients who had experienced a severe event . it therefore appears that severe life events may be one of the determinants of stroke onset . 
transient ischaemic attacks in young patients : a thromboembolic or migrainous manifestation ? a 10 year follow up study of 46 patients . forty six patients aged 18-39 years with transient ischaemic attacks ( tia ) were studied ; two thirds were women . twenty five patients had attacks accompanied by headache , and seven gave a history of common migraine . only four of 27 angiograms were abnormal ; no operable carotid lesion was demonstrated . over a mean follow up period of 10 years stroke or myocardial infarction ( ami ) occurred in all four patients who presented major cerebrovascular risk factors , but in only two of the remaining 42 patients . thus irrespective of age thromboembolic tia is a harbinger of stroke or ami . however , most tias under the age of 40 years are caused by a non-embolic benign vascular disorder . the clinical characteristics , long-term prognosis , and possible pathogenesis , for such attacks are often indistinguishable from those of classical migraine . in the absence of cardiovascular risk factors , arteriography does not provide much diagnostic and prognostic information . 
case finding , data quality aspects and comparability of myocardial infarction registers : results of a south german register study . the population-based augsburg coronary event register ( 330,000 residents , age 25-74 years ) has registered a total of 1012 cases of acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) in 1985 and 1021 ami in 1986 and categorized them on the basis of the current who diagnostic algorithm for ami . the register is designed for longitudinal comparisons of annual ami risk ( incidence , attack rate , death rate ) , and the risk to the ami patients themselves ( 28-day case fatality ) . the methodology and specific issues encountered during registration and data evaluation are described . with an estimated 95 % completeness of case finding , the quality control data review which the register conducts annually shows a consistency of specific data structures which indicate stable case finding and validation procedures . however , local conditions which affect case finding and data completeness per case are responsible for the creation of subsets of ami which are in turn distinguished by differences in diagnostic category structures . with regard to the study objectives , the differences among subsets appear to have the least effect on rate calculations if definite and possible ami are combined . the implications of methodological variations and subset differences within and across registers on annual rate calculations and result comparisons are discussed . 
sequential or fixed sample trial design ? a case study by stochastic simulation . the properties of wilcoxon 's rank sum test for fixed sample size and a wilcoxon-type two-sample sequential test have been illustrated and compared by means of stochastic simulation . data from a real fixed sample trial have been used , both for resampling from the original data , and for construction of an idealized theoretical distribution . the sequential and the fixed sample test obtain equal power , but the sequential test mostly includes considerably fewer patients to reach a conclusion , i.e. the mean and median number of patients included are both much lower than the fixed sample size . under the hypotheses only a small fraction of the simulation runs exceed the fixed sample size . these findings exemplify results obtained in theoretical analyses and simulation studies covering a wide range of distributions . in our opinion sequential tests have obvious advantages and are in many cases better alternatives than fixed sample tests in clinical trials . 
inability to demonstrate physiologic correlates of subjective improvement among patients taught the relaxation response . objective : to assess whether the regular elicitation of the relaxation response produces sustained physiologic changes coincident with symptomatic relief or improved psychological state . design : prospective , cohort pilot study . setting : clinical research center within a teaching hospital . patients : thirteen athletic men , mean age 44.8 years , with borderline or labile hypertension , taking no medication . all 13 completed the study . interventions : three baseline assessments of psychological state , symptom checklist , and assessment of autonomic response to infusion of beta agonist ( isoproterenol ) . daily relaxation response exercises for five consecutive weeks followed by repeat assessment of all parameters . discontinuation of relaxation exercises for subsequent five weeks followed by repeat assessment of all parameters . measurements and main results : after eliciting the relaxation response , subjects demonstrated significant decreases in anxiety ( p less than 0.014 ) and somatic symptoms ( p less than 0.02 ) . psychological and somatic variables returned toward baseline after the subsequent discontinuation of relaxation exercises . no significant concomitant change in urinary catecholamines , heart rate response to isoproterenol , blood pressure , pulse rate , or serum cholesterol was demonstrated . conclusion : the regular elicitation of the relaxation response can improve psychological performance and reduce symptoms . however , the physiologic mechanism whereby these psychological and symptomatic improvements occur remains poorly understood and warrants further investigation . 
changes in cardiac function during extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for persistent pulmonary hypertension in the newborn infant . the effects of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ecmo ) on cardiac function and its determinants ( preload , afterload , contractility , and heart rate ) are largely unknown , although some evidence exists that function may decrease . to determine whether cardiac function decreases and what changes in the determinants take place during and after ecmo , we observed 26 newborn infants with persistent pulmonary hypertension . serial echocardiograms were performed before ecmo , during maximum cardiopulmonary bypass , and after ecmo . cardiac function was assessed by using standard echographic ejection phase indices ( shortening fraction and cardiac output ) . heart rate , preload ( left ventricular end-diastolic dimension and area ) , afterload ( left ventricular end-systolic wall stress ) , and contractility ( relationship between velocity of circumferential fiber shortening and wall stress ) were also measured . ejection phase indices significantly decreased during ecmo ( shortening fraction 33 % to 25 % , cardiac output 205 to 113 ml/kg/min ; p less than 0.05 ) and returned to normal after ecmo ( shortening fraction 26 % to 34 % , cardiac output 107 to 240 ml/kg/per minute ; p less than 0.05 ) . heart rate also significantly decreased during ecmo ( 158 to 118 beats/min ; p less than 0.05 ) . preload significantly increased after ecmo ( left ventricular end-diastolic dimension 1.4 to 1.6 cm , left ventricular end-diastolic area 1.9 to 2.2 cm2 ; p less than 0.05 ) . there were no significant changes in contractility and afterload during any study period . we conclude that , although left ventricular ejection phase indices and heart rate decreased during ecmo , these changes were transient and resolved when bypass was terminated . contractility and afterload did not appear affected by bypass . 
cardiac performance in infants referred for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation . we performed cardiac evaluations in 59 infants referred for severe lung disease to determine whether cardiac performance was impaired in those requiring extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ecmo ) . infants were divided into two groups : group 1 ( n = 25 ) received conventional therapy and group 2 ( n = 34 ) received ecmo therapy after meeting established criteria . ventilatory and oxygenation indexes and estimates of right ventricular systolic pressure were measured . load-dependent and load-independent echocardiographic indexes of cardiac performance were also measured . the infants in the two groups had similar diagnoses , age , weight , inotropic support , ventilator and oxygenation indexes on admission , and survival . heart rate and estimates of preload and afterload were similar in the two groups . ventricular shortening fraction was 36.1 + / - 7.6 % in group 1 and 40.5 + / - 8.8 % in group 2 ( p value was not significant ) . velocity of circumferential fiber shortening ( vcf/sec ) was 1.41 + / - 0.35 in group 1 and 1.58 + / - 0.39 in group 2 ( p value was not significant ) . the relationship between wall stress and ventricular shortening was similar in the two groups . there were no differences in cardiac output . pulmonary artery pressure was estimated to be 56 + / - 13 mm hg in group 1 and 63 + / - 10 mm hg in group 2 ( p = 0.017 ) . thus no significant differences were found in load-dependent or load-independent measures of cardiac performance in infants with severe lung disease treated with ecmo or conventional therapy . we conclude that cardiac failure is not the primary cause of clinical deterioration in infants with severe lung disease who require ecmo therapy . 
influence of preservation or perfusion of intraoperatively identified spinal cord blood supply on spinal motor evoked potentials and paraplegia after aortic surgery . permanent ligation of arteries supplying blood to the spinal cord in operations for aortic aneurysm can lead to spinal cord ischemia , which can result in either paraparesis or paraplegia . this report describes a rapid method of intraoperative identification of those arteries that supply the spinal cord by use of an intrathecal platinum electrode to detect hydrogen in solution that has been injected into the aortic ostia . preservation or perfusion of those identified arteries supplying the spinal cord may decrease the rate of postoperative neurologic complications . of 28 porcine experiments with postoperative observation for 24 hours , there were 3 initial pilot experiments in which saline saturated with hydrogen was injected into the temporarily cross-clamped aorta . twenty animals were then randomized to ( 1 ) preservation of only the vessels sequentially identified to supply blood to the spinal cord from t-13 to l-5 ( n = 10 ) ; ( 2 ) division of the vessels supplying the spinal cord ( n = 10 ) . a further five animals underwent perfusion experiments wherein the identified cord arteries were perfused by a shunt , the other nonsupply arteries were divided , and the aorta was kept clamped for 45 minutes . spinal motor evoked potentials were elicited with an intrathecal electrode and were highly sensitive for paralysis . paralysis occurred in 0/3 pilot ( p less than 0.013 vs division ) ; 8/10 division ; 1/10 preservation ( p less than 0.0017 vs division ) ; and perfusion 1/5 ( p less than 0.025 vs division ) . results of a pilot study in eight humans shows that the technique can be used to rapidly identify segmental arteries supplying the spinal cord , to determine if distal perfusion is supplying the spinal cord with blood flow , and if reattached segmental arteries are patent . 
abdominal aortic aneurysm : results of a family study . data pertaining to abdominal aortic aneurysm among first-degree relatives of 91 patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm are presented . the percentage of families with at least one affected first-degree relative of the proband ( multiplex families ) was 15.4 % . in 21.4 % of multiplex families parent-offspring transmission of abdominal aortic aneurysm was noted ; in the remaining families only siblings were affected . the mean age at onset among probands was 67.3 years ; that among all affected was 67.4 years . no statistically significant difference in the mean ages at onset between genders was noted . among affected siblings of probands , the sex ratio , male : female , was 1.33:1 , which is not significantly different from 1:1 . the relative risk of developing an abdominal aortic aneurysm was 3.97 for fathers , 4.03 for mothers , 9.92 for brothers , and 22.93 for sisters . 
revascularization of an ischemic limb by use of a muscle pedicle flap : a rabbit model . a rabbit model of hind limb ischemia was designed to demonstrate that new , hemodynamically significant arterial connections will develop between ischemic skeletal muscle and an independently perfused muscle pedicle flap . the right common iliac artery was divided in 15 rabbits . in eight rabbits a muscle flap based on the left deep inferior epigastric artery was transposed to the right thigh ( flap group ) . in seven rabbits a sham operation was performed where the flap was sutured to the abdominal wall ( sham group ) . after 7 days angiography demonstrated arterial connections between the flap and the native limb circulation in all of the flap group animals . the flap increased muscle perfusion in the ischemic limb ( 2.99 ml/100 gm muscle/minute in the flap group , vs 2.06 ml/100 gm muscle/minute in the sham group , p less than 0.005 ) . hemodynamically significant vascular connections will develop between a well-perfused muscle flap and an ischemic limb . the augmentation in perfusion provided by these connections can be quantified . 
limitations of magnetic resonance imaging and ultrasound-directed ( duplex ) scanning in the diagnosis of subclavian vein thrombosis . to investigate the potential role of magnetic resonance imaging and duplex scanning in the diagnosis of catheter-induced subclavian vein thrombosis , we correlated the results of 43 arm phlebograms with duplex scans ; 28 of these phlebograms were also correlated with magnetic resonance imaging scans of the thoracic veins . eighteen of the 43 phlebograms were normal , and all had normal magnetic resonance imaging and duplex studies . eleven subclavian veins were totally occluded on phlebography ; all had duplex scans , and five were also scanned with magnetic resonance imaging . duplex scans detected 6 of 11 occlusions , whereas magnetic resonance imaging detected 4 of the 5 occlusions scanned . the five occlusions that were not detected by either magnetic resonance imaging or duplex scans were short segmental occlusions of the medial one third of the left subclavian vein . of 14 nonocclusive thrombi seen on phlebography , duplex scans correctly identified 8 . magnetic resonance imaging was done on eight nonocclusive thrombi but identified only two . all abnormal findings on duplex scanning and magnetic resonance imaging were confirmed by phlebography . short occlusions of the proximal portion of the left subclavian vein were often undetected by duplex scanning but occasionally seen with magnetic resonance imaging . neither modality was sensitive to the presence of nonocclusive mural thrombi . magnetic resonance imaging is highly reliable in ruling out the presence of a thrombotic process in the subclavian vein , but it may on occasion fail to detect the presence of subclavian thrombi . for this reason , in cases with suspected subclavian vein thrombosis magnetic resonance imaging can not be used as the only diagnostic modality . 
popliteal artery aneurysms . long-term follow-up of aneurysmal disease and results of surgical treatment . the natural history of aneurysmal disease was analyzed in 50 patients who were treated for 71 popliteal aneurysms . no patients were lost to follow-up ( mean , 5.0 years ) . initially , 25 popliteal aneurysms ( 25/71 ; 35 % ) were treated nonsurgically , and 46 ( 46/71 ; 65 % ) were treated surgically . complications developed in 12 of the 21 asymptomatic popliteal aneurysms ( 57 % ) and in 2 of the 4 symptomatic popliteal aneurysms ( 50 % ) , which were treated nonsurgically . the probability of developing complications increased with time to 74 % within 5 years . when reconstruction of a popliteal aneurysm was performed , graft patency and foot salvage were 64 % and 95 % at 10 years , respectively . particularly acute arterial thromboembolism was a severe presenting complication . another important finding was the development of 23 arteriosclerotic aneurysms at other locations during follow-up in 16 patients ( 32 % ) . the probability of developing these new aneurysms increased to 49 % 10 years after repair of the initial popliteal aneurysm . the presence of multiple isolated aneurysms at the initial examination was the most significant risk factor limiting the survival of these patients . consequently patients at risk could be identified early . this study confirms the limb-threatening potential of popliteal aneurysms when left untreated . therefore prophylactic reconstructive surgery should be undertaken . moreover , this study demonstrates that patients with a popliteal artery aneurysm have an increased risk of new aneurysm formation , both in the popliteal artery and at other locations . therefore these patients should be followed and , in the event that new aneurysms develop , should be considered for elective reconstructive surgery to prevent limb-threatening or life-endangering complications . 
occlusion of the brachial artery by thrombus dislodged from a traumatic aneurysm of the anterior humeral circumflex artery . the successful treatment of a brachial artery occlusion caused by a chronic embolizing aneurysm of the anterior humeral circumflex artery is described . in the case of embolizing axillary artery aneurysms , the best therapy is resection of the aneurysm followed by distal thromboembolectomy and vascular reconstruction by a saphenous vein segment . prosthetic material should be reserved as a second choice . in this particular case successful therapy consisted of ligation of the anterior humeral circumflex artery proximal and distal to the aneurysm , resection of the aneurysm , and transcubital thromboembolectomy . 
interval gangrene of the lower extremity : a complication of vascular surgery . interval gangrene , segmental ischemic necrosis proximal to a functioning distal anastomosis , is a rare complication after successful peripheral vascular reconstruction . previous reports have demonstrated the gravity of this event in that major limb amputation was required in all cases . two cases are presented to emphasize the need for maintaining segmental collateral circulation after successful distal extremity bypass . despite a satisfactory result after distal ( inframalleolar ) bypass of a popliteal aneurysm , one patient had progressive ischemic gangrene of the upper leg and eventually required amputation . the contralateral limb was successfully managed by distal ligation of the superficial femoral artery , which maintained collateral flow from the proximal superficial femoral artery to the knee and leg . the second patient required a microvascular free flap to replace tissue loss and provide vascular graft coverage after initial multiple bypass failures and a final successful remote reconstruction to the dorsal artery of the foot that excluded the popliteal-crural collateral network . patients with inadequate collateral circulation or disruption of the profundus or geniculate collateral pathways may require revascularization of sequential vascular beds . recognition of the potential for interval gangrene is essential since the likelihood of its occurrence will increase in proportion to the number of distal bypasses being performed for limb salvage . although adjunctive procedures will not completely eliminate the possibility of interval gangrene , awareness of this phenomenon with attention to the segmental collateral circulation can decrease the incidence of its occurrence . 
hemodynamic consequences of carotid-carotid bypass for innominate artery stenosis . the carotid-carotid cervical bypass is one surgical option for symptomatic atherosclerotic lesions of the innominate artery . controversy exists regarding the necessity of surgically excluding the innominate plaque from the cerebral circuit . a canine study was instituted to characterize the hemodynamic alterations that occur in the right common carotid artery proximal to the bypass graft , termed the critical segment . the direction of flow in the critical segment determines whether emboli originating in the innominate may be propelled cranially despite a patent bypass graft . six mongrel dogs underwent placement of an autogenous arterial crossover graft as a carotid-carotid bypass . a stenosis of the innominate artery was quantitatively altered , and an electromagnetic flowmeter measured the magnitude and direction of flow in the critical segment at three levels of diameter reduction in the innominate artery . for low-grade stenoses , flow in the critical segment was always prograde . for high-grade stenoses , the flow was always reversed . stenoses between 57 % and 67 % yielded flow values of 10 + / - 24 ml/min , and it was in this range that mean flow reversal was found to occur . even when the mean flow was near zero in the critical segment , flow was not stagnant but oscillated in antegrade and retrograde directions throughout the cardiac cycle . these data indicate that a carotid-carotid bypass causes complete flow reversal in the critical segment when there is high-grade stenosis in the innominate artery . theoretical analysis of the hemodynamic circuit indicated that arm exercise would augment retrograde flow in the critical segment . 
skewflap versus long posterior flap in below-knee amputations : multicenter trial . a multicenter trial of alternative techniques for below-knee amputation is described in which surgeons in 11 centers randomized 191 patients with end-stage occlusive vascular disease to two different methods of stump construction . the skewflap technique was performed in 98 and the long posterior flap was performed in 93 . the two groups were well matched in respect to age , sex , smoking , diabetes , and indications for amputation . early outcome was compared in terms of 30-day mortality rate : skew 11 ( 11 % ) deaths versus long posterior flap 16 ( 17 % ) ; the state of the wound at 1 week ( primary healing 60 % in both groups ) ; the need for surgical revision at the same level 7 ( 7 % ) versus 7 ( 8 % ) , and revision to a higher level 10 ( 10 % ) versus 7 ( 8 % ) . follow-up information at 6 months was available from records or by mailed questionnaire in 188 ( 98 % ) at 6 months , 20 died during that interval . it showed that a prosthetic limb was fitted to 64 ( 84 % ) of skew flaps and 50 ( 77 % ) of long posterior flaps . walking , alone or with support , was achieved in 59 ( 78 % ) and 46 ( 71 % ) , respectively . none of these differences reached statistical significance . it is concluded that the skew flap is just as effective as the long posterior flap and is an excellent option for below-knee amputation . 
limitations of electroencephalographic monitoring in the detection of cerebral ischemia accompanying carotid endarterectomy . an analysis was undertaken of 458 consecutive carotid endarterectomies performed over 6 years with the patient under general anesthesia and with electroencephalographic monitoring . seventy patients ( 15 % ) had electroencephalographic changes suggestive of ischemia with carotid clamping and had shunts placed . ischemic encephalographic changes occurred in 26 % of patients with an occluded contralateral carotid artery , 21 % of patients with a prior stroke history , and 12 % of patients with no stroke history and a patent contralateral carotid artery . nineteen strokes ( 4.1 % ) , nine transient deficits ( 2.0 % ) , and one death ( 0.2 % ) occurred in the 458 endarterectomies in this experience . ten of the 19 strokes and five of nine transient deficits were immediately apparent when patients awoke from anesthesia . five of 10 patients with immediate strokes and all five patients with immediate transient deficits had no ischemic electroencephalographic changes during the procedure . two other patients with immediate strokes initially had ischemic electroencephalographic changes after carotid clamping that reversed with increased blood pressure or shunting . therefore 7 of 10 patients with immediate strokes and all 5 patients with immediate transient deficits had electroencephalographs unchanged from baseline at completion of the procedure , and thus deficits not manifest by operative electroencephalographic changes developed . our data do not support the tenet that electroencephalographic monitoring will always predict neurologic deficits accompanying carotid endarterectomy . 
suggested standards for reporting on arterial aneurysms . subcommittee on reporting standards for arterial aneurysms , ad hoc committee on reporting standards , society for vascular surgery and north american chapter , international society for cardiovascular surgery . the literature on arterial aneurysms is subject to potential misinterpretation because of inconsistencies in reporting standards . the joint councils of the society for vascular surgery and the north american chapter of the international society for cardiovascular surgery appointed an ad hoc committee to address this issue . this communication , prepared in response to the need for standardized reporting , defines and classifies arterial aneurysms and recommends standards for describing the causes , manifestations , treatment , and outcome criteria that are important when publishing data on aneurysmal disease . 
exposing patients with chronic , stable , exertional angina to placebo periods in drug trials . because the safety of withholding standard therapy and enrolling patients with stable angina in placebo-controlled trials is not known , we identified all events leading to dropout from trials of 12 antianginal drugs submitted in support of new drug applications to the us food and drug administration . persons who dropped out of the trials were classified as cause due to adverse cardiovascular events or other causes without knowledge of drug assignment . there were 3161 subjects who entered any randomized , double-blind phase of placebo-controlled protocols ; 197 ( 6.2 % ) withdrew because of cardiovascular events . there was no difference in risk of adverse events between drug and placebo groups . a prospectively defined subgroup analysis showed that groups who received calcium antagonists were at an increased risk of dropout compared with placebo groups ( p = .04 ) , primarily because of a disproportionate number of adverse events in studies of one drug . in conclusion , there were few adverse experiences associated with short-term placebo use . withholding active treatment does not increase the risk of serious cardiac events . 
antihypertensive therapy . to stop or not to stop ? the benefits of continuous antihypertensive therapy have been extensively documented . however , lack of compliance with the prescribed regimen , excessive cost , and troublesome adverse effects of some antihypertensive agents led to the consideration of intermittent therapy or even complete discontinuation of therapy as an effective alternative to lifelong medication . prospective studies dealing with this subject reported inconsistent results . nevertheless , they allowed us to identify selection criteria of candidates for step-down or discontinuation of antihypertensive therapy . such candidates include patients with mild essential hypertension who have one or more of the following characteristics : young age , normal body weight , low salt intake , no alcohol consumption , low pretreatment blood pressure , successful therapy with one drug only , and no or only minimal signs of target organ damage . stopping antihypertensive therapy without subsequent rise in arterial pressure was shown to be possible in a subset of patients with mild essential hypertension for a period of months to years . this approach appears to be safe , provided that blood pressure is monitored frequently , and may improve compliance , save treatment costs , and reduce adverse effects of certain drugs , although its long-term consequences for morbidity and mortality remain to be determined . 
the surgical treatment of atrial fibrillation . i. summary of the current concepts of the mechanisms of atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation . atrial fibrillation is a common arrhythmia that is frequently resistant to medical therapy and has no satisfactory surgical therapy . the development of an effective surgical procedure to treat atrial fibrillation has been hampered by the paucity of clinically relevant information on the basic mechanisms responsible for the arrhythmia . this paper summarizes the current concepts of the electrophysiologic abnormalities in atrial flutter and fibrillation . 
the surgical treatment of atrial fibrillation . ii . intraoperative electrophysiologic mapping and description of the electrophysiologic basis of atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation . computerized mapping of atrial fibrillation was performed in animals and man . to study atrial fibrillation in a systematic manner , we developed a clinically relevant experimental model of atrial fibrillation . chronic mitral regurgitation was created surgically in 25 dogs without opening the pericardium . after several months of chronic mitral regurgitation , the atria became enlarged and sustained atrial fibrillation could be induced by standard programmed electrical stimulation techniques . computerized isochronous activation maps of the atria were recorded during atrial fibrillation from 208 bipolar electrodes simultaneously . in a parallel study , human atrial fibrillation was mapped with a separate 160-channel intraoperative mapping system in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation who were undergoing surgical correction of the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome . the canine activation sequence maps demonstrated a spectrum of rhythm abnormalities ranging from simple atrial flutter to complex atrial fibrillation . they also showed that macroreentrant circuits within the atrial myocardium were responsible for the entire spectrum of arrhythmias . atrial reentry was also documented during human atrial fibrillation . all patients had nonuniform conduction around regions of bidirectional block in both atria resulting in multiple discrete wave fronts . in addition , six patients had a single reentrant circuit in the right atrium in which bidirectional block of the activation wave front occurred along the sulcus terminals between the venae cavae . the left atrium in all patients demonstrated multiple wave fronts and conduction block , but left atrial reentry could not be detected . both the experimental study and the clinical study demonstrated that multiple wave fronts , nonuniform conduction , bidirectional block , and large ( macroreentrant ) reentrant circuits occur during atrial fibrillation . the presence of macroreentrant circuits and the absence of either microreentrant circuits or evidence of atrial automaticity suggests that atrial fibrillation should be amenable to surgical ablation . 
comparison of two levels of anticoagulant therapy in patients with substitute heart valves after cardiac valve replacement patients were blindly randomized into two groups , both receiving aspirin ( 330 mg ) and dipyridamole ( 75 mg ) twice daily and the oral anticoagulant acenocoumarol ( sintrom ) . an international normalized ratio of 2.0 to 2.99 was assigned to group a and 3.0 to 4.5 to group b ; both groups were subsequently analyzed for thromboembolic and hemorrhagic complications . final evaluation included 51 and 48 patients , respectively . the follow-up was 626 months for group a ( 12.3 months/patient ) and 486 months for group b ( 10.1 months/patient ) . the frequency of thromboembolism was equal in both groups : one transient ischemic attack in group a ( a rate of 1.92 / 100 patient-years ) and two transient ischemic attacks in group b ( a rate of 4.94 / 100 patient-years ) . there was , however , a statistical difference in bleeding complications between the two groups ( p less than 0.02 ) . two patients bled in group a , a rate of 3.9 % ( 3.8 / 100 patient-years ) , which represents an incidence of one episode each 25.6 years of treatment ; 10 patients bled in group b , a rate of 20.8 % ( 24.7 / 100 patient-years ) representing an incidence of one episode each 4 years of treatment . we conclude that an international normalized ratio of 2 to 3 is safer than a ratio of 3 to 4.5 and confers good protection from thromboembolism when oral anticoagulant therapy is used conjointly with platelet function-inhibiting drugs in patients with mechanical substitute heart valves . 
analysis and predictors of pulmonary vascular resistance after cardiac transplantation . elevated pulmonary vascular resistance is a known risk factor for early death from acute right ventricular failure after orthotopic cardiac transplantation . patients in whom the elevated pulmonary vascular resistance is due primarily to increased left atrial pressure ( " reactive " ) frequently have normalization of resistance after transplantation , but few studies have detailed the time course and magnitude of these changes . to analyze the response of pulmonary vascular resistance to cardiac transplantation , we analyzed data from 4353 right heart catheterizations on all 182 patients undergoing cardiac transplantation between 1981 and jan . 1 , 1990 . before transplantation 18 % of patients had a pulmonary vascular resistance greater than 4 wu , 16 % had a pulmonary artery systolic pressure greater than 60 mm hg , and 16 % had a transpulmonary gradient greater than 14 mm hg . in the overall group of patients , pulmonary vascular resistance ( mean value 2.63 wu ) , transpulmonary gradient ( mean value 9.9 mm hg ) , and pulmonary artery systolic pressure ( mean value 48.0 mm hg ) were normalized within 1 week of cardiac transplantation . in patients with a high preoperative pulmonary vascular resistance ( greater than or equal to 4 wu ) , the resistance fell promptly within 1 week of transplantation but continued to be slightly elevated throughout the period of follow-up . by multiple regression analysis , pulmonary vascular resistance at 1 week and 1 year after transplantation was significantly correlated with the pretransplantation resistance . pulmonary vascular resistance anytime after transplantation was related to preoperative resistance , body surface area , and pulmonary artery diastolic pressure . inferences : ( 1 ) as a group , cardiac transplant recipients have a normal pulmonary vascular resistance , transpulmonary gradient , and pulmonary artery systolic pressure within 1 week after transplantation with little change thereafter for at least several years . ( 2 ) patients with reversible elevation of pulmonary vascular resistance before cardiac transplantation typically have a reactive and a fixed component . cardiac transplantation relieves the reactive but not the fixed component . as a result , pulmonary vascular resistance early ( within 1 week ) and late after transplantation will have fallen but not completely normalized . 
the mechanism of heart failure caused by cardiac allograft rejection . rejection of the cardiac allograft is often associated with reversible myocardial failure , the mechanism of which is not understood . we have examined this phenomenon in a small animal model that provides the opportunity for multimodality study of the rejection process . heterotopic cardiac transplantation was performed in the lewis rat with lewis x brown-norway ( allografts ) or lewis ( isografts ) donors . without immunosuppression , allografts are completely rejected in 6 to 8 days . at 3 days cardiac grafts were explanted and mounted on a modified langendorff apparatus for functional measurements or submitted for pathologic examination and biochemical determination of high-energy phosphates . three-day isografts ( n = 9 ) had minimal histologic changes . pathologic examination of 3-day allografts ( n = 13 ) showed lymphocytic infiltrate and myocyte necrosis , histologic features for which antirejection treatment is usually given clinically . for grafts subjected to functional studies ( n = 11 ) , heart rate , cardiac output , coronary flow , and stroke work were determined at baseline and in response to isoproterenol ( 3 x 10 ( -8 ) mol/ml ) . three-day allografts ( n = 6 ) and isografts ( n = 5 ) had similar baseline function . the chronotropic response to isoproterenol was similar in allografts and isografts , but allografts had diminished cardiac output and stroke work after isoproterenol . adenosine triphosphate levels were normal ( 41.9 nmol/mg ) in 3-day allografts ( n = 4 ) . we have evaluated functional , biochemical , and pathologic changes associated with myocardial dysfunction during heterotopic cardiac transplant rejection in a small animal . this model reproducibly demonstrates diminished contractile reserve in 3-day allografts with normal baseline function and high-energy stores but histologically significant rejection . 
emergency cardiopulmonary bypass support in patients with cardiac arrest . emergency percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass support was instituted in 11 patients in cardiac arrest refractory to conventional resuscitation measures . emergency percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass support was used in five patients in whom cardiac arrest occurred as a result of a complication in the cardiac catheterization laboratory ( group 1 ) and in six other patients in cardiac arrest ( group ii ) . a 21f cannula and a 17f cannula were percutaneously inserted into the femoral vein and artery . flow rates of 3 to 5 l/min were achieved with restoration of mean arterial pressure to 70 mm hg ( range 50 to 75 ) . the status of all 11 patients was improved initially both clinically and hemodynamically with percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass . of the group ii patients , three had anatomy unsuitable for percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty or coronary bypass grafting , could not be weaned from cardiopulmonary support , and died ; three of these patients had coronary artery bypass grafting and two survived . all five group i patients underwent successful coronary bypass grafting and survived . of the seven patients with anatomically correctable disease , all seven were discharged from the hospital . with conventional management nearly all seven of these patients would have died . nine of 11 patients underwent a cardiac operation and seven of the nine survived . the operative mortality rate was 22 % and the overall survival rate was 64 % . at follow-up ( mean 7 months ) , all seven patients are alive and six have resumed a normal and active life-style . in conclusion , emergency percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass support is a powerful resuscitative tool that may stabilize the condition of patients in cardiogenic shock and cardiac arrest to allow for definitive intervention . 
studies of controlled reperfusion after ischemia . xxiii . deleterious effects of simulated thrombolysis preceding simulated coronary artery bypass grafting with controlled blood cardioplegic reperfusion . this study tests whether simulated thrombolysis before controlled reperfusion ( i.e. , simulated coronary artery bypass ) causes reperfusion injury that obviates the benefits of subsequent controlled reperfusion and results in unnecessary ventricular arrhythmias . fifteen dogs underwent acute occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery . in 10 dogs we simulated thrombolysis after 1 hour of ischemia ( delivering 10 % to 15 % of control flow at 5 ml/min ) , followed 1 hour later by either normal blood reperfusion at systemic pressure ( to simulate percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ) in five dogs or regionally controlled blood cardioplegic reperfusion on bypass in five others to simulate coronary bypass . in five dogs ischemia was prolonged to 2 hours , and the initial reperfusate was blood cardioplegic solution on total vented bypass ( to simulate primary coronary bypass ) . all hearts receiving simulated thrombolysis ( 100 % ) after 1 hour of ischemia had reperfusion-induced ventricular fibrillation . all hearts treated by simulated angioplasty recovered regional contractility ( 56 % of control systolic shortening ) , whereas there was no ( 0 % ) recovery of spontaneous contractility after subsequent blood cardioplegic reperfusion , and only two ( 40 % ) dogs had contractile reserve capacity ( 6 % + / - 49 % ) . conversely , surgically controlled blood cardioplegic reperfusion without preceding low-flow normal blood reperfusion after 2 hours of ischemia resulted in no ventricular arrhythmias ( 0 % ; p less than 0.05 versus simulated coronary artery bypass after simulated thrombolysis ) , 72 % + / - 7 % ( p less than 0.05 versus simulated coronary artery bypass after simulated thrombolysis ) recovery of regional contractility ( ultrasonic crystals ) , and 114 % + / - 11 % ( p less than 0.05 versus simulated coronary artery bypass after simulated thrombolysis ) recovery of contractile reserve with calcium chloride stimulation . we conclude that controlled reperfusion ( simulating coronary artery bypass ) with blood cardioplegic solution produces immediate functional recovery and avoids the ventricular fibrillation that follows simulated thrombolysis despite the need for prolonged ischemic time . preceding controlled reperfusion by normal blood reperfusion ( simulated thrombolysis ) shortens the ischemic time but nullifies immediate functional recovery possible by simulated coronary bypass and produces unnecessary arrhythmias . 
mitral valve repair by replacement of chordae tendineae with polytetrafluoroethylene sutures . expanded polytetrafluoroethylene sutures have been used for replacement of diseased chordae tendineae during reconstructive procedures on the mitral valve in 43 patients . there were 28 men and 15 women whose mean age was 55 years , range 21 to 76 . three fourths of the patients were in new york heart association class iii or iv . replacement of primary chordae tendineae of the anterior leaflet was performed with 4-0 or 5-0 polytetrafluoroethylene sutures . a double-armed suture was passed twice through the fibrous portion of the papillary muscle head and tied down . each arm of the suture was brought up to the free margin of the leaflet and passed through the area where the native chorda was attached . after the lengths of the two arms were adjusted , the ends were tied together on the ventricular side of the leaflet . thirty patients had degenerative disease of the mitral valve ; the incompetence was due to prolapse of the anterior leaflet in 14 patients and prolapse of the anterior and posterior leaflets in 16 . eleven patients had rheumatic mitral valve disease : four had stenosis , three had regurgitation , and four had mixed lesions . two patients had ischemic mitral regurgitation caused by rupture of a papillary muscle head . there were no operative deaths . patients have been followed up from 5 to 61 months , mean 13 . doppler echocardiographic studies were performed at regular intervals after the operation and revealed normal mitral valve function in most patients there were two failures that necessitated mitral valve replacement : one because of acute mitral regurgitation and the other because of hemolysis . there have been two late deaths , neither one valve related . replacement of chordae tendineae with polytetrafluoroethylene sutures is simple and allows for reconstruction of the mitral valve in many patients who would otherwise require mitral valve replacement . because our patients have been followed up for a limited time , the long-term results of this procedure remain unknown . 
alcohol and pyruvate cardioplegia . twenty-four-hour in situ preservation of hamster hearts . isolated hamster hearts were first perfused with a normal krebs-henseleit medium to demonstrate comparable viability of hearts before perfusing and storing them for 24 hours in one of three solutions . the three solutions were a physiologic saline with pyruvate as the substrate and 4 % alcohol to arrest the heart ( group 1 ) , a standard cardioplegic solution ( group 2 ) , and an alcohol-free physiologic saline with pyruvate as the substrate ( group 3 ) . recovery in terms of rate/pressure product and oxygen consumption after 30 minutes of reperfusion was 81 % and 93 % , respectively , for group 1 , 13 % and 32 % for group 2 , and 70 % and 72 % for group 3 . percent of physiologic recovery was not related to recovery of adenosine triphosphate . the adenosine triphosphate level returned to approximately 40 % control level in all three groups , and in all three groups inorganic phosphate remained approximately 320 % over control level after 30 minutes of reperfusion . phosphocreatine level significantly higher in groups 1 and 3 than in group 2 , as a result of improved oxygen consumption . intracellular ph , determined by phosphorous 31 nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy , was physiologic in groups 1 and 3 but alkaline in group 2 . this alkalinity may have been caused by leaky membranes . pyruvate helped preserve mitochondrial function during depressed oxygen delivery , such as was seen during the 24-hour storage period . four percent alcohol arrested the heart ; combined with pyruvate plus alcohol solution were better than a standard cardioplegic solution for maintaining functional capability . 
the dynamics of antegrade cardioplegia with simultaneous coronary sinus occlusion . effects on aortic root infusion pressure , coronary sinus pressure , and myocardial cooling . it has been suggested that antegrade cardioplegia with coronary sinus occlusion improves homogeneous myocardial cooling and reduces myocardial injury in the presence of coronary artery occlusion . little data are available on the exact relationships among the basic elements or this intervention , including antegrade infusion rate , aortic root pressure , the degree of coronary sinus occlusion , coronary sinus pressure , and myocardial cooling . the purpose of this study was to determine these relationships and to provide some basic guidelines for better understanding of this intervention . twenty-two sheep were placed on cardiopulmonary bypass , the distal left anterior descending artery was occluded , and the proximal coronary sinus was snared . sixteen combinations of infusion rate ( 3 , 5 , 7 , or 9 ml/kg/min ) and coronary sinus occlusion ( total , subtotal , or moderate occlusion or no occlusion ) were adopted for each 2 minutes of antegrade cardioplegia , yielding 96 measurements . myocardial temperatures in the occluded and nonoccluded regions , aortic root infusion pressure , and coronary sinus pressure were measured during each infusion of cardioplegic solution . coronary sinus occlusion was then released , and the whole heart was reperfused for 30 minutes for another infusion of cardioplegic solution and measurements . results showed good degrees of linearity between infusion rate and aortic root infusion pressure for all coronary sinus occlusion and noninfusion groups ( p less than 0.01 ) . a positive effect of coronary sinus occlusion on aortic root infusion pressure was observed . the graded increases in infusion rate with various degrees of coronary sinus occlusion were constantly associated with elevation of coronary sinus pressure ( p less than 0.01 ) . it was also noted that myocardial temperatures in the region of the occluded left anterior descending artery were significantly lower in coronary sinus occlusion groups than in nonocclusion groups ( p less than 0.01 or 0.05 ) . myocardial temperature in the nonoccluded region decreased significantly with the stepwise increases in infusion rate ( p less than 0.01 ) , but not with the increases in coronary sinus occlusion ( not significant ) . based on this and previous studies , we recommend that the induced coronary sinus pressure be safely maintained in the range of 25 to 35 mm hg and that further studies be focused on the infusion rate of 5 ml/kg/min with subtotal or total coronary sinus occlusion for the intervention of antegrade cardioplegia plus coronary sinus occlusion . 
critical aortic stenosis in early infancy . anatomic and echocardiographic substrates of successful open valvotomy . to establish noninvasive criteria by which to manage infants with critical aortic stenosis , we examined 20 heart specimens from infants under 3 months of age and reviewed the clinical course and real time echocardiograms of 20 patients in the same age group . all 20 infants underwent open valvotomy , and in five cases both echocardiographic and postmortem measurements were available for the same heart . the anatomic specimens showed a spectrum of valvular , ventricular , and vascular abnormalities that could be accurately identified by echocardiography . a small left ventricular cavity was usually associated with a narrow ventriculoarterial junction , small ascending aorta , and narrow subaortic region . in these hearts , the mitral valve had a single or grossly hypoplastic papillary muscle with short or " arcuate " tendinous cords . a dilated left ventricular cavity had wider inflow and outflow orifices , and the tension apparatus of the mitral valve was either normal or supported by hypertrophic papillary muscles , at the other end of the spectrum . the survivors ( n = 15 ) and nonsurvivors ( n = 5 ) of open valvotomy showed significant differences in the echocardiographic dimensions of the left ventricle ( p less than 0.005 ) , the subaortic region ( p less than 0.05 ) , the ventriculoaortic junction ( p less than 0.05 ) , the ascending aorta ( p less than 0.005 ) , and the mitral valve orifice ( p less than 0.001 ) . moreover , the papillary muscle of the mitral valve was invariably single or hypoplastic with short tendinous cords in the early nonsurvivors . infants with unfavorable cardiac anatomy tended to present earlier ( p less than 0.05 ) and to have a lower systemic blood pressure ( p less than 0.05 ) , and they required prostaglandin e2 to maintain right ventricular support of the circulation through a persistent arterial duct . this study suggests that patients with a small left ventricle ( echocardiographic inflow dimension less than 25 mm ) , a narrow ventriculoaortic junction ( less than 5 mm ) , and a small mitral valve orifice ( less than 9 mm ) will not achieve a satisfactory surgical result from aortic valvotomy . such patients should be considered for cardiac transplantation or the norwood-type of palliation for hypoplastic left heart syndrome . 
freehand allograft aortic valve replacement and aortic root replacement . utility of intraoperative echocardiography and doppler color flow mapping . seventeen consecutive patients undergoing 20 planned aortic valve replacements with allograft valves at stanford university medical center were studied with intraoperative epicardial echocardiography and doppler color flow mapping before and after cardiopulmonary bypass . native aortic valves were replaced in 12 of the 20 patients , and eight patients underwent second aortic valve procedures . in 17 of 20 patients allograft selection was guided by prebypass echocardiographic estimates of annular diameter and/or length of allograft aortic root required . other prebypass findings included unanticipated severe mitral regurgitation in one patient ( which precluded allograft aortic valve replacement ) , left-to-right shunts in five patients , ascending aortic dissection in one , and aortic root disease necessitating coronary reimplantation or bypass in two . postbypass echocardiography demonstrated acceptable competency of 18 of 19 allograft valves ( mild or no aortic insufficiency ) . postbypass echocardiography also documented successful repair of four of five shunts and mild mitral regurgitation in 15 of 19 patients ( versus 11 of 19 before bypass ) . conclusions : intraoperative echocardiography-doppler mapping is a useful adjunct for allograft aortic valve or aortic root replacement ; it allows confident selection of appropriate tissue size before aortic cross clamping , which minimizes delay from allograft thawing procedures . it also provides helpful information about the extent of aortic root disease and coronary ostial anatomy before bypass , confirms allograft competency after bypass , and detects accompanying valvular and other hemodynamic lesions before and after allograft valve replacement . 
deprivation in infancy or in adult life : which is more important for mortality risk ? previous ecological studies have suggested that early life factors are important causes of adult cardiovascular and respiratory disease , by showing geographic correlations between past infant mortality rates and present adult mortality rates . however , these studies inadequately take account of the fact that areas which were severely deprived earlier this century remain the most deprived today . thus the ecological relation between infant and adult mortality rates could simply reflect persistence in the geographic distribution of poor socioeconomic circumstances . to explore this hypothesis further infant mortality rates for 1895-1908 for 43 counties in england and wales were correlated with cause-specific adult mortality for 1969-73 in people aged 65-74 years , with and without adjustment for present-day social deprivation and social class . the strong simple correlations found between infant mortality in 1895-1908 and adult mortality from various causes in 1969-73 were generally much attenuated or abolished by controlling for indices of present-day socioeconomic circumstances . our results suggest that previous studies give no strong support for any direct influence of factors acting in early life on adult coronary heart disease mortality risk . studies which gather data about infancy , childhood , and the full course of adult life are required to clarify this issue . 
paraneoplastic vasculitic neuropathy : a treatable neuropathy . paraneoplastic vasculitic neuropathy has been recently described . we report the first case of this disorder which responded both clinically and electrophysiologically to cyclophosphamide treatment . a 54-year-old woman with a history of metastatic endometrial carcinoma in remission had asymmetrical polyneuropathy , electrophysiological findings consistent with a diffuse axonal neuropathy , high sedimentation rate and spinal fluid protein , and microvasculitis with axonal degeneration on nerve biopsy . the patient was treated with 150 mg of cyclophosphamide daily with gradual clinical and electrophysiological improvement . 
hypoglycemia , hypotonia , and cardiomyopathy : the evolving clinical picture of long-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency . inherited defects in fatty acid oxidation , which have been described and diagnosed with increasing frequency in the last decade , are most commonly attributed to a deficiency in the activity of medium-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase . few cases of the related enzyme defect of long-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase activity have been reported . an infant with documented long-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency is described with a detailed metabolic profile , long-term clinical follow-up , and response to treatment . this patient is compared with the seven previously published cases of this disorder in order to stress the unique features of the initial presentation , more subtle late manifestations of the disease , and clinical and biochemical differentiation from the more common medium-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency . this report stresses the enlarging spectrum of the clinical presentation and natural history of this defect in fatty acid oxidation . 
tilt test for diagnosis of unexplained syncope in pediatric patients . thirty-five teenage patients with a history of presyncope or syncope underwent a passive head-up tilting to reproduce symptoms of syncope . if tilting alone did not induce syncope , isoproterenol infusion was given to increase heart rate to 150 to 160 beats per minute . in 80 % of patients with a history of syncope , identical symptoms could be reproduced during tilting : an abrupt fall in blood pressure combined with profound nodal bradycardia , ranging from 32 to 86 beats per minute . these symptoms were quickly reversed by returning the patient to the supine position . for patients with frequent occurrences of syncope , especially when there was a history of trauma sustained during these episodes , a therapeutic regimen of either beta blockers or 9 alpha-fluorocortisol was begun . the mechanisms of this common cause of syncope in childhood is neurocardiogenic in response to venous pooling and catecholamine-induced tachycardia . the tilt test is an excellent and cost-effective test for the workup of unexplained syncope in childhood . 
orthopedic complications . compartment syndrome , fat embolism syndrome , and venous thromboembolism . specialized education in the care of orthopedic patients includes an understanding of the common complications for which patients require monitoring . with a socioeconomic backdrop of decreasing hospital stays and prospective payment , patient care must be managed proactively . for all three complications presented , there are unique sets of risk factors that , when present , contribute to a high index of suspicion for morbidity . clusters of symptoms have also been discussed representing the expected normal patterns . with this knowledge as a foundation , clinical application is essential to incorporate other salient aspects of individual situations . nurses diagnose and treat human responses to health problems . the end result of human responses to injury or orthopedic conditions can be the development of complications . stringent adherence to patient monitoring protocols can promote timely nursing interventions to prevent , minimize , or detect complications or treatment side effects . although definitive treatment is often physician directed , nurses are in a key role to impact final patient outcomes . 
raynaud 's syndrome . using a range of therapies to help patients . raynaud 's syndrome is a common medical problem . approach to diagnosis must involve a search for underlying causes . treatment includes avoidance of precipitating factors , biofeedback , and possibly pharmacologic therapy , after careful consideration of risks . 
heart transplantation in patients with severe pulmonary hypertension and increased pulmonary vascular resistance . irreversibly increased pulmonary vascular resistance is a contraindication for cardiac transplantation . at our hospital patients referred for recipient evaluation with systolic pulmonary artery pressure greater than 50 mmhg and pulmonary vascular resistance greater than 2 wood units ( wu ) are tested with intravenous sodium nitroprusside for reversibility . in 23 patients whose increased systolic pulmonary artery pressure ( 67.4 + / - 10.4 mmhg ) and resistance ( 4.8 + / - 2.4 wu ) were reduced by nitroprusside , orthotopic heart transplantation was performed without early mortality . right heart catheterization after transplantation revealed a significant and persistent fall of the elevated pulmonary artery pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance . we conclude that if severe pulmonary hypertension and elevated pulmonary vascular resistance are reversible with nitroprusside , the patient can safely undergo heart transplantation . 
surgical treatment of active native valve endocarditis . a report is presented of 24 patients ( 23 male ) , mean age 38 years , who underwent surgery for active native valve endocarditis of the left heart in 1975-1988 . the aortic valve was affected in all patients , and also the mitral valve in five . pre-existing aortic valve disorder was present in 17 cases ( 13 congenitally bicuspid 4 rheumatic affection ) . there were five hospital deaths ( 20.8 % ) . staphylococci as causal organism and extensive infection predicted the highest mortality and morbidity . the mean follow-up time was 39.7 ( range 2-114 ) months . two reoperations because of prosthetic valve dehiscence revealed endocarditis of the implanted valve . strong correlation was found between favourable postoperative course and rapid normalization of c-reactive protein levels , which did not fall in patients with persistent infection . early surgery is recommended if the course of bacterial endocarditis is severely complicated . 
spinal cord injury after subclavian flap aortoplasty . an experimental study in piglets . paraplegia is a rare but much feared complication of corrective surgery for coarctation of the aorta . the problem was studied in 31 newborn pigs submitted to subclavian flap aortoplasty . the aortic cross-clamping time ranged from 9-25 min . twenty-three piglets with clamping times 9-18 min were neurologically intact , whereas eight with aortic clamping for 18-25 min became paraplegic . the clinical implications for newborn children with symptomatic aortic coarctation are discussed with regard to these experimental findings . 
ultrastructural changes in rat hearts following cold cardioplegic ischemia of differing duration and differing modes of reperfusion . morphologic consequences of prolonged global hypothermic ( 15 degrees c ) , cardioplegic ischemia and two reperfusion techniques were studied in langendorff-perfused rat hearts . a ' gentle ' reperfusion technique , with gradual rise in perfusate temperature and pressure to physiologic levels over 30 min , was used for 12 hearts following 2-hour or 3 1/2 - hour ( 6 in each group ) ischemia . abrupt reperfusion , with perfusate at 37 degrees c and 70 mmhg , was performed on 13 hearts ( 6 ischemic for 2 hours and 7 for 3 1/2 hours ) . six nonischemic , perfused hearts served as controls . randomly selected specimens from the left ventricle after 45-60 min reperfusion were prepared for transmission electron microscopy . volume fractions of myocardial structural components were calculated from stereologic point-counting on the electron micrographs . two-way analysis of variance revealed that interstitial edema developed with increasing ischemic time and was not influenced by reperfusion technique . the degree of endothelial damage was independent of ischemic time , but was lessened by ' gentle ' reperfusion . both mitochondrial injury and myocyte edema were less when perfusate temperature and pressure were slowly raised after 3 1/2 - hour ischemia . 
coronary trapping of a complement activation product ( c3a des-arg ) during myocardial reperfusion in open-heart surgery . accumulation of complement factors has been found to occur in the myocardium after infarction . we studied the possibility that the complement activation product c3a des-arg is trapped within the coronary circulation during reperfusion of the ischemic myocardium . in 11 patients undergoing routine coronary artery bypass grafting , arterial blood was sampled before , during and after cardiopulmonary bypass . blood was drawn from the coronary sinus concomitantly with arterial blood sampling 5 and 30 min after release of the aortic cross-clamp ( n = 10 ) . from a preoperative value of 92 + / - 13 ng/ml , c3a des-arg rose during cpb to a maximum of 1816 + / - 393 at the end of cpb . following reperfusion for 5 min , c3a des-arg was 1284 + / - 232 ng/ml in arterial and 1106 + / - 100 in coronary sinus blood , a significant difference ( p less than 0.05 ) . the amount of c3a des-arg trapped in the heart at 5-min reperfusion showed positive correlation with its arterial concentration ( p less than 0.05 ) . no significant difference was found after 30 min of reperfusion . complement activation products trapped in the heart in the early reperfusion period may play a pathogenetic role in myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury . 
gastric infarction . we have described a patient with an acute condition of the abdomen who had infarction of the stomach and the small intestine due to atheromatous thrombus of celiac and superior mesenteric arteries . we believe this unusual simultaneous occurrence of gastric and small intestinal infarction is coincidental . the outcome of gastric infarction is frequently fatal . 
elective resection of 332 abdominal aortic aneurysms in a southern west virginia community during a recent five-year period . this study analyzed 33 variables that might potentially affect outcome in a series of 332 consecutive elective abdominal aortic aneurysm repairs in a southern west virginia community . one of the interesting features of this series was that the repairs were done by 22 surgeons with varying degrees of experience . the mortality and complication rates were compared for various potential risk factors by both univariant methods ( chi 2 , fisher 's exact , and student t tests ) and multivariant methods of analysis . our early mortality ( 2.1 % ) and postoperative complication rates were consistent with those of other series . with multiple linear regression models , five factors were selected as significant independent risk factors associated with an increasing number of postoperative complications : the number of blood transfusions ( p less than 0.0001 ) , left renal vein ligation ( p less than 0.0001 ) , the presence of greater than 50 % renal artery stenosis ( p = 0.0012 ) , the lesser experience of the surgeon ( p = 0.0203 ) , and the history of prior cardiac catheterization ( p = 0.0245 ) . the only factor statistically correlated with mortality rate was an increased number of postoperative complications ( p less than 0.0001 ) . neither postoperative complications nor mortality rate was found to be significant and independently influenced by other demographic , clinical , or operative factors . it is tempting to speculate that surgeons with less experience might be well served to refer patients with significant renal artery stenosis and coronary artery disease . our mortality and complication rates were not increased by performing preoperative angiography and therefore prudent surgeons may find this helpful in selecting patients for safer repair . 
late arterial hemorrhage secondary to a greenfield filter requiring operative intervention . retroperitoneal hematomas associated with greenfield filters have been described and are generally characterized as clinically insignificant . we report a retroperitoneal hematoma that was associated with a greenfield filter and that required operative intervention because of hemodynamic instability . at operation a lumbar arterial laceration apparently caused by a protruding filter prong was identified and ligated . the implications of this occurrence for filter placement indications are discussed . the potential life-threatening severity of filter-associated hematomas is emphasized . 
subacute poisoning with phosalone , an organophosphate insecticide . an illness characterized by weakness , dizziness , and gastrointestinal symtoms was identified among a crew of 30 migrant field-workers employed by a grape grower in madera county , california , during august 1987 . the onset of symptoms occurred between august 24 and august 30 and a median of 9 days from the date of first employment . the first crew member sought medical treatment on august 26 , and 10 crew members were admitted to hospital between august 27 and august 30 . for most workers , gastrointestinal and constitutional symptoms resolved shortly after admission , but 4 patients had episodes of severe sinus bradycardia persisting for several days . on the day of admission , transient atrioventricular dissociation developed in 2 persons . interviews with 16 crew members not admitted to the hospital identified only 1 additional worker ill with gastrointestinal symptoms , but all 16 had moderate to severe inhibition of both plasma and red blood cell cholinesterase . four other workers who were tested but not interviewed also had cholinesterase depression . the crew had had exposure since august 19 to the organophosphate insecticide phosalone , which was last applied to the vineyard on july 21 , or 29 days earlier . although this is the first report unequivocally linking phosalone to field-worker poisoning , the delayed onset and nonspecific nature of the symptoms associated with subacute poisoning may have hindered the recognition of previous similar episodes . 
new developments in cardiopulmonary resuscitation . since the last revision of the american heart association 's guidelines in 1985 , several new developments of clinical importance have occurred in the field of cardiopulmonary resuscitation . these include enhanced access to and earlier use of defibrillation , the use of high-dose epinephrine when standard doses fail , the assessment of resuscitative efforts with end-tidal co2 monitoring and the addition of two new drugs , amiodarone ( for refractory ventricular fibrillation ) and adenosine ( for paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia ) . time will determine the ultimate role of these advancements in the management of cardiac arrest . 
outpatient management of schizophrenia . as effective antipsychotic pharmacotherapy has become available , patients with schizophrenia are increasingly managed in an outpatient setting by primary care physicians . pharmacotherapy is generally effective in treating " positive , " or psychotic , symptoms and lessening the risks of relapse , but ineffective in improving " negative , " or deficit , symptoms . aggressive attempts to totally control positive symptoms and to ameliorate negative symptoms tend to increase side effects and may be detrimental to the patient . intensive psychotherapeutic and rehabilitative approaches are generally unproductive . attempting to obtain a cure is unrealistic . a moderate approach is recommended , taking into consideration the limitations of existing treatments , achieving control of extreme symptoms and minimizing social and occupational limitations . 
safety and efficacy of urokinase during elective coronary angioplasty . eighty-nine of 462 patients were treated with adjunctive urokinase during elective percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) , 26 % for unstable angina , 34 % for intracoronary thrombus , 27 % for intimal dissection , 10 % for abrupt closure , and 3 % for saphenous vein graft embolism . the 80 patients treated before abrupt closure ( group a ) were compared with 167 patients with similar profiles who did not receive urokinase ( group b ) . procedural success rates were similar . adverse cardiac events ( abrupt closure , myocardial infarction , emergency coronary artery bypass , or death ) in group a versus group b occurred in : 1 of 30 ( 3 % ) versus 5 of 27 ( 18.5 % ) ( p = 0.07 ) with intracoronary thrombus , 5 of 45 ( 9 % ) versus 18 of 110 ( 16.3 % ) with unstable angina , 1 of 12 ( 8 % ) versus 4 of 13 ( 31 % ) with unstable angina with intracoronary thrombus , 4 of 33 ( 12 % ) versus 14 of 97 ( 14.4 % ) with unstable angina without intracoronary thrombus , and 5 of 24 ( 20.8 % ) versus 6 of 66 ( 9 % ) with intimal dissection . hemorrhagic complications occurred in 11 % of patients who were treated with urokinase versus 9 % of patients who were not ( p = ns ) . no difference in blood transfusions existed . thus urokinase was found to be safe during elective ptca . in patients with intracoronary thrombus , urokinase appears to decrease the incidence of new adverse cardiac events , whereas in patients with intimal dissection it might have an adverse effect . 
late streptokinase infusion and antithrombotic treatment in myocardial infarction reduce subsequent myocardial ischemia . of 255 consecutive patients with acute myocardial infarction , 111 were eligible for attempted late thrombolysis . they were randomly assigned to either thrombolytic and antithrombotic treatment ( treatment group ) or routine treatment ( control group ) . patients in the treatment group received streptokinase initiated late ( mean 32 hours ; range 12 to 49 ) after the onset of symptoms , followed by heparin infusion for at least 5 days and warfarin and dipyridamole for at least 3 months . patients were examined clinically and by bicycle ergometry on discharge from the hospital and after 3 and 12 months . the two groups did not differ with respect to deaths or reinfarctions . there was a trend toward a lower incidence of angina pectoris in the treatment group . exercise tolerance in this group was significantly higher than in the control group ( at 3 months 124 + / - 39 w vs 107 + / - 41 w ; p less than 0.05 ) . the difference was entirely accounted for by patients with no previous history of infarction or angina pectoris ( at 3 months 142 + / - 37 w vs 112 + / - 45 w ; p = 0.01 ) . ecg signs of myocardial ischemia , silent or symptomatic , occurred at significantly lower levels of exercise among patients in the control group compared with patients in the treatment group . the results support the notion that thrombolytic therapy given as late as 12 to 49 hours after the onset of symptoms may reduce the incidence of residual ischemia during the postinfarction period . 
immediate regional endocardial surface expansion following coronary occlusion in the canine left ventricle : disproportionate effects of anterior versus inferior ischemia . the exact time of onset of functional expansion after acute myocardial infarction/ischemia remains unclear in spite of its potential link to chronic pathologic infarct expansion and its potential implications for therapy . to examine this early change in ventricular morphology , 14 open-chest dogs were studied with two-dimensional echocardiography before and after occlusion ( 10 minutes ) of the left anterior descending coronary artery ( lad , n = 7 ) or circumflex artery ( circ , n = 7 ) . the endocardial surface area ( esa ) and the area of abnormal wall motion ( awm ) were reconstructed from the echocardiographic data using a previously reported technique for quantitatively mapping the esa and extent of awm . for the total group ( n = 14 ) , the mean esa before occlusion was 48.9 + / - 9.8 cm2 , increasing to 65.7 + / - 18.9 cm2 at 10 minutes occlusion ( p less than 0.001 ) . for the lad subgroup , the mean esa before occlusion was 50.7 + / - 9.3 cm2 , increasing to 79.1 + / - 14.1 cm2 at 10 minutes following occlusion ( p less than 0.001 ) . for the circ subgroup , the mean esa before occlusion was 47.1 + / - 10.8 cm2 , increasing to 52.3 + / - 12.6 cm2 at 10 minutes after occlusion ( p less than 0.001 ) . the esa increase for the lad subgroup was significantly larger than that of the circ subgroup ( lad range 14.5 to 49.9 cm2 versus circ range 1.5 to 9 cm2 , p less than 0.0001 ) . coronary occlusion resulted in similarly sized regions of awm for both subgroups ( lad , 31.3 + / - 12.2 cm2 versus circ , 25.9 + / - 10.3 cm2 , p = n.s. ) . for the lad group , the largest increase in endocardial circumference occurred within the zone of awm at the apex ( 39.9 + / - 12 % ) . the endocardial surface area therefore expands immediately after coronary occlusion and the magnitude of this process is primarily related to the site ( anteroapical ) rather than to the extent of awm . 
detection of myocardial infarction in the presence of wolff-parkinson-white syndrome by qrst isoarea map in dogs . the possibility of detecting myocardial infarction ( mi ) in the presence of wolff-parkinson-white ( wpw ) syndrome by means of body surface qrst isoarea maps was studied in eight dogs . eighty-seven body surface ecgs were recorded simultaneously . recordings were taken during right atrial ( ra ) and right atrial and right ventricular ( ra + rv ) sequential pacing , which simulated wpw syndrome , during control periods and at 1-hour intervals for up to 5 hours after occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery . in ecgs during the ra drive , diagnostic findings of mi such as abnormal q waves were observed but became obscure during the ra + rv drive . on the contrary , the qrst values over the anterior chest during both drives were positive soon after coronary occlusion , decreased gradually as time passed , and became abnormally negative after 5 hours . the qrst isoarea maps during ra and ra + rv pacing showed quite similar patterns and were highly correlated with each other throughout this study ( r greater than 0.95 ) . these findings demonstrate that localized abnormalities resulting from mi are evident in qrst isoarea maps even in the presence of preexcitation and fusion . 
acute reduction of mitral valve area after percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty : assessment with doppler continuity equation method . mitral valve areas before and after balloon mitral valvuloplasty were serially determined by the doppler continuity equation method in 16 patients . ultrasound examinations were performed before and immediately after balloon inflation and 24 hours , 1 week , and 1 month after valvuloplasty . mitral valve area determined by the doppler continuity equation method correlated well with that determined at catheterization by the gorlin formula , not only before but also immediately after balloon inflation ( y = 0.87 x + 0.05 , standard error of estimate = 0.22 cm2 , r = 0.90 ) . serial calculation of mitral valve area by the doppler continuity equation method showed a slight but significant decrease in the valve area at 24 hours after balloon mitral valvuloplasty but no change after that . we conclude that the doppler continuity equation method provides an accurate estimation of mitral valve area before and even after balloon valvuloplasty . mitral valve area dilated by balloon inflation is decreased slightly within 24 hours after the procedure , which corroborates valve stretch as one mechanism for increasing mitral valve area with balloon valvuloplasty . estimation of mitral valve area immediately after balloon mitral valvuloplasty may overestimate the long-term efficacy of the procedure . 
acute hemodynamic effects of intravenous diperdipine , a new dihydropyridine derivative , in coronary heart disease . the acute hemodynamic effects of a new dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker , diperdipine , which is suitable for intravenous administration , were studied by right and left cardiac catheterization in 16 patients with coronary heart disease . diperdipine markedly reduced systemic vascular resistance and improved stroke index and left ventricular ejection fraction . mean pulmonary artery and wedge pressures were slightly increased as a possible consequence of enhanced venous return , whereas right atrial and left ventricular end-diastolic pressures were not significantly changed . nevertheless , an increase in preload was clearly indicated by an augmented left ventricular end-diastolic volume index after administration of diperdipine . left ventricular contractility , which was estimated by the end-systolic pressure-volume ratio and by dp/dt max was not significantly changed , though analysis of individual data suggests a minimally negative inotropic effect . however , such a minor effect on left ventricular contractility was largely counterbalanced by the marked reduction of afterload , which produced a sharp improvement of stroke index . enhancement of left ventricular ejection fraction and reduction in systemic vascular resistance were inversely and directly correlated to control values . overall , diperdipine was well tolerated , but one patient had a major untoward reaction that consisted of an ischemic episode that was possibly related to drug administration . in conclusion , intravenous diperdipine appears to be a potent arteriolar dilating agent that does not affect left ventricular contractility . 
ultra short-acting intravenous beta-adrenergic blockade as add-on therapy in acute unstable angina . to assess the efficacy and safety of the ultra short-acting beta-blocking agent , esmolol , in acute unstable angina , we administered esmolol to 21 patients who had persistent angina despite conventional medical therapy . following a baseline doppler echocardiographic examination , esmolol was titrated to reduce the rate-pressure product by at least 20 % . once the patients had been receiving a maintenance dosage for 30 minutes , doppler echocardiographic studies were repeated . mean esmolol dose at target response was 17 + / - 16 mg/min , with the dosage range of 8 to 24 mg/min . esmolol was effective in alleviating anginal chest pain in 18 of the 21 patients . seven patients eventually underwent percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) and eight had coronary bypass surgery . the remainder were discharged receiving medical therapy including oral beta-blockade . during esmolol therapy , heart rate and blood pressure decreased significantly ( 86 + / - 14 to 68 + / - 12 beats/min and 125 + / - 16 to 103 + / - 20 mm hg , both p less than 0.001 ) . cardiac output decreased from 5.4 + / - 1.3 to 4.5 + / - 1.1 l/min ( p less than 0.001 ) secondary to a decrease in heart rate as stroke volume remained unchanged . left ventricular ejection fraction increased from 47 + / - 12 to 49 + / - 13 with esmolol therapy , although this change was not statistically significant . both the one third filling fraction as well as e/a ratio ( ratio of early-to-late diastolic filling velocities ) increased with esmolol therapy ( 35 + / - 8 % to 38 + / - 8 % and 0.73 + / - 0.2 to 0.85 + / - 0.23 , both p less than 0.005 ) , indicating improvement in left ventricular diastolic function . 
improvement of systolic and diastolic left ventricular wall motion by serial echocardiograms in selected patients treated for unstable angina . the purpose of the study was to evaluate the effect of antiischemic treatment on left ventricular function in selected patients with unstable angina pectoris that was due to severe proximal left anterior descending coronary artery narrowing and to identify subgroups liable to an adverse outcome ( mean term 2.7 years ) . effect of antiischemic treatment on systolic and diastolic left ventricular wall motion was studied in 35 patients who had unstable angina pectoris and an electrocardiogram that indicated severe proximal left anterior descending coronary artery narrowing . treatment consisted of either a revascularization procedure ( 17 patients ) or antianginal drug therapy ( 18 patients ) . all patients underwent a two-dimensional echocardiographic study within 48 hours ( mean 20 hours ) of entry into the study . this study semiquantitatively analyzed systolic performance of the ischemia-related segments by calculation of a total wall motion score . in 16 patients this investigation was combined with a continuous detailed recording of only the apical interventricular septal wall motion . this detailed study included measurements for regional function by providing a typification of the pattern of systolic and early diastolic excursion of the endocardial border of the apical interventricular septum . a repeat ultrasonic study was performed at least 1 month ( median 2 months , 7 days ) after admission . results of the systolic wall motion analyses of all 35 patients showed , in both treatment groups , a significant improvement in systolic wall motion of the anterior and apical segments ( mean total wall motion score at early study vs late study : revascularization , 6.9 vs 2.2 and medical therapy , 4.6 vs 1.0 ) . 
collateral circulation in kawasaki disease with coronary occlusion or severe stenosis . forty patients with kawasaki disease with severe coronary sequelae were investigated . all had at least a 90 % reduction in the diameter of the major coronary artery . collateral vessels were seen in 32 of 33 ( 97 % ) patients with total occlusion . all patients with severe stenosis but not total occlusion had no or poorly developed collateral vessels . analysis according to the presence or absence of collateral vessels showed no significant differences in the results of treadmill stress testing and myocardial imaging between these two groups . in patients treated surgically , the abnormalities recognized by these tests were normalized or improved when the bypass was patent . these data indicate that collateral circulation in patients with kawasaki disease can not be seen angiographically unless there is total occlusion and the presence of collateral circulation can not provide protection against stress-induced myocardial ischemia . 
histologic abnormalities of large and small coronary arteries , neural structures , and the conduction system of the heart found in postmortem studies of individuals dying from the toxic oil syndrome . hundreds died and thousands were poisoned by rapeseed oil adulterated with aniline and sold illegally in spain in 1981 . the clinical manifestations , now known as the toxic oil syndrome , include pulmonary hypertension and right ventricular hypertrophy plus widespread vascular and neural lesions in other organs . many of the late deaths ended with a scleroderma-like illness . because scleroderma involves the heart , in this study we examined the small and large coronary arteries , neural structures , and conduction system from eight victims dying with the toxic oil syndrome . dense fibrosis of the sinus node in two hearts resembled changes found in scleroderma . atrionodal junctional hemorrhages and cystic degeneration of the sinus node present in the other six hearts resembled changes found in lupus erythematosus . small and large coronary arteries exhibited focal fibromuscular dysplasia and a proliferative cystic myointimal degeneration . this latter abnormality was associated with sloughing of the inner wall and embolization of the detached fragment downstream in the same coronary artery . every heart had many degenerative lesions within nerves , ganglia , and the coronary chemoreceptor . both the arterial and neural abnormalities prominently involved the conduction system . based upon observations by others with experimental feeding of rapeseed oil containing either high or low erucic acid , we suggest that this oil must remain a major suspected cause of the toxic oil syndrome , particularly in conjunction with some as yet unexplained facilitative influence by oleoanilids . if this is so , it is important to reconsider the widely recommended use of any rapeseed oil product as a suitable food for man or other animals . 
time course of improvement in ventricular function after ablation of incessant automatic atrial tachycardia . a patient with dilated cardiomyopathy and supraventricular tachycardia presumed to be of sinus origin was referred for cardiac transplantation . the extreme rate of the tachycardia during exercise , profound fluctuations in heart rate , and the presence of an abnormal p wave axis suggested the diagnosis of incessant ectopic atrial tachycardia rather than compensatory sinus tachycardia . electrophysiologic study with endocardial activation sequence mapping confirmed the diagnosis of an ectopic left atrial automatic tachycardia , after which surgical cryoablation of the left atrial focus was carried out successfully and sinus rhythm was restored . serial radionuclide angiocardiograms obtained before and after surgery demonstrated a very rapid recovery of left ventricular function to nearly normal within the first month after surgery , followed by further improvement to normal over the next several months . the diagnosis of tachycardia-related cardiomyopathy should be seriously considered in any patient with apparently end-stage dilated cardiomyopathy and persistent resting tachycardia . 
identification of the rate-dependent functional refractory period of the atrioventricular node in simulated atrial fibrillation . we continuously observed successive pairs of r-r intervals during atrial fibrillation and hypothesized that the shortest r-r interval for a given preceding r-r interval in a pair represents the functional refractory period of the atrioventricular node at that preceding interval . to test this hypothesis we simulated atrial fibrillation in 28 isolated cross-perfused canine hearts and obtained an r-r interval scatterplot by plotting the r-r intervals as a function of the immediately preceding r-r interval . this scatterplot enabled us to detect a series of the shortest r-r intervals for a wide range of preceding r-r intervals , and this allowed us to estimate the rate-dependent functional refractory period of the atrioventricular node in simulated atrial fibrillation . the estimated functional refractory periods correlated well with those measured by the conventional method ( r = 0.93 ) . we conclude that the proposed method makes it possible to estimate the rate-dependent functional refractory periods of the atrioventricular node in atrial fibrillation . 
septal ventricular pacing in the immature canine heart : a new perspective . cardiac pacing initiated from epicardial or transvenous apical right ventricular electrodes causes asynchronous ventricular contraction . this alters myocardial stress vectors and results in adverse cellular and subcellular changes in the experimental animal . clinically , such changes may contribute to the adverse hemodynamics reported with long-term ventricular pacing . to determine the feasibility of direct stimulation of the ventricular specialized conduction systems and therefore the potential for maintenance of normalized depolarization patterns , 13 beagle puppies were studied . baseline ventricular activation and contraction patterns were obtained using intracardiac electrograms and multigated nuclear acquisition ( muga ) imaging . septal electrode insertion from the aortoatrial groove was accomplished by use of two-dimensional echocardiography and continuous electrocardiographic ( ecg ) monitoring of the surface ecg during pacemaker implantation in five puppies . standard right ventricular epicardial electrodes were implanted in five additional animals , with three remaining as age-matched non-paced controls . after 4 months of observation , repeat muga imaging and intracardiac electrograms demonstrated nearly normal biventricular activation and contraction patterns among the septal-paced group . histopathologic examination illustrated normal cellular morphology in the septal-paced animals . this study demonstrates that pacing electrode insertion into the proximal interventricular septum is feasible and results in utilization of the normal ventricular conduction pathway . such an approach to initiation of ventricular stimulation may attenuate the adverse effects of long-term ventricular pacing . 
noninvasive estimation of left atrial pressure in patients with congestive heart failure and mitral regurgitation by doppler echocardiography . a completely noninvasive method for estimating left atrial pressure in patients with congestive heart failure and mitral regurgitation has been devised with the use of continuous-wave doppler echocardiography and brachial sphygmomanometry . of 46 patients studied with mitral regurgitation , 35 ( 76 % ) had jets with distinct doppler spectral envelopes recorded . the peak ventriculoatrial gradient was obtained by measuring peak mitral regurgitant velocity in systole and using the modified bernoulli equation . this gradient was then subtracted from peak brachial systolic blood pressure , an estimate of left ventricular systolic pressure , to yield left atrial pressure ( left atrial pressure = systolic blood pressure - mitral regurgitant pressure gradient ) . noninvasive estimates of left atrial pressure from 35 patients were plotted against simultaneous recordings of mean pulmonary capillary wedge pressure resulting in the correlation y = 0.88 x + 3.3 , r = 0.88 , standard error of estimate = + / - 4 mm hg ( p less than 0.001 ) . therefore , continuous-wave doppler echocardiography and sphygmomanometry may be used in selected patients with congestive heart failure and mitral regurgitation for noninvasive estimation of left atrial pressure . 
coronary collateral recruitment : functional significance and relation to rate of vessel closure . studies in animals and humans have demonstrated the anatomic presence and functional significance of coronary collaterals . the extent of collateralization varies among species and among individuals . collateral vessels are usually adequate for preserving resting regional and global ventricular function in the face of coronary obstruction . during stress , however , collateral supply may be inadequate . collateral development is a time-dependent process during both the initial occlusion and following transient reflow and reclosure . therefore when a previously collateralized coronary occlusion is recanalized and then recloses , the extent of the resulting collateral recruitment will depend , at least in part , upon the period of reflow between the two occlusions . the longer the reflow period , the less enhanced will be the collateralization . this is illustrated in the cases presented and has also been demonstrated in animal studies . the exact mechanisms for this recurrent collateral recruitment need further study . 
myocardial imaging with tc-99m teboroxime : technique and initial results . this study examined the results of tc-99m teboroxime imaging in 22 patients aged 59 + / - 9 years and compared the results with those of thallium-201 . the exercise and rest teboroxime studies were obtained within 3 hours of each other using a dose of 15 mci/study . because of the very short wash-out half-life of teboroxime , imaging was begun within 1 to 2 minutes after injection . both spect and planar images were obtained ; the spect protocol was modified by changing the number of frames , the time per frame , or the filters used for reconstruction of images . the planar images were obtained in the supine or upright position . shorter acquisition time for spect ( 10 sec/frame ) and the use of a butterworth filter with a frequency cutoff of 0.3 cycle/cm and a power of 10 yielded best image quality . there was a close agreement with thallium results in identifying an abnormal or normal perfusion pattern in 89 % of vascular territories . the scans were abnormal by both techniques in 12 patients , normal in nine patients , and discordant in only one patient . thus tc-99m teboroxime myocardial imaging is feasible at rest and during exercise using either spect or planar imaging . shorter acquisition time and appropriate filtering for spect imaging and the upright position in planar imaging improve image quality and are convenient for the patient . 
epidemiology of heart failure . analysis of 34 years of follow-up of framingham study data provides clinically relevant insights into the prevalence , incidence , secular trends , prognosis , and modifiable risk factors for the occurrence of heart failure in a general population sample . heart failure was found to be highly prevalent , affecting about 1 % of persons in their 50s and rising progressively with age to afflict 10 % of persons in their 80s . the annual incidence also increased with age , from about 0.2 % in persons 45 to 54 years , to 4.0 % in men 85 to 94 years , with the incidence approximately doubling with each decade of age . women lagged slightly behind men in incidence at all ages . male predominance was because of a higher rate of coronary heart disease , which confers a fourfold increased risk of heart failure . heart failure , once manifest , was highly lethal , with 37 % of men and 33 % of women dying within 2 years of diagnosis . the 6-year mortality rate was 82 % for men and 67 % for women , which corresponded to a death rate fourfold to eightfold greater than that of the general population of the same age . sudden death was a common mode of exitus and accounted for 28 % of the cardiovascular deaths in men and 14 % in women with heart failure . hypertension and coronary disease were the predominant causes for heart failure and accounted for more than 80 % of all clinical events . factors reflecting deteriorating cardiac function were associated with a substantial increase in risk of overt heart failure . these include low vital capacity , sinus tachycardia , and ecg evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy . 
future directions in vasodilator therapy for heart failure . vasodilator therapy has become a major pharmacologic approach for improving left ventricular function , and consequently , vasodilator drugs are being used increasingly in the treatment of heart failure . ideally , vasodilator drugs used in the long-term management of heart failure should show clearly defined pharmacodynamic effects . these include reduced impedance to left ventricular ejection , increased venous capacitance , increased left ventricular ejection fraction and reduced heart size , absence of neurohormonal stimulation , and slowed progression of left ventricular dysfunction . the mechanisms of action and sites of activity of the various vasodilator drugs currently available vary considerably , and none as yet has proved ideal for the treatment of heart failure or hypertension . the complexity surrounding the multiple vasoconstrictor mechanisms involved in heart failure has led to a rationale for combined vasodilator therapy and certain combinations are discussed . from a therapeutic standpoint , the development of drugs with multiple mechanisms of action is particularly attractive . flosequinan is a new vasodilator agent whose cellular mechanism of action remains uncertain . flosequinan has the advantage of being able to relax both arterial and venous beds and as such may be particularly beneficial in the treatment of heart failure . 
clinical efficacy of flosequinan in heart failure . the effects of the new arterial and venous vasodilator flosequinan have been evaluated in a variety of ways in different groups of patients with chronic heart failure . flosequinan improved the central hemodynamic effects of heart failure in one group , with benefits still apparent up to 24 hours after a single oral dose . in another group it also improved calf blood flow and , therefore , blood flow to skeletal muscle . also , using a number of different tests , it improved the exercise performance of the patients . in a further group the improvement in exercise tolerance produced was similar to that of captopril . flosequinan has the necessary properties of a drug that is likely to be of benefit in the treatment of patients with chronic heart failure . 
early beneficial effect of streptokinase on left ventricular function in acute myocardial infarction . the effect of intravenous streptokinase therapy on the time course of functional recovery was investigated in a controlled study of 64 patients randomized within 3 hours after the onset of acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) . contrast ventriculography was performed 1 to 4 days after ami and repeated 5 weeks later . wall motion was analyzed by the centerline method in the central infarct , peripheral infarct and noninfarct regions . in patients with ventriculographic data at the early catheterization , streptokinase-treated patients had less severe hypokinesia in the central infarct region than control patients ( -2.9 + / - 0.9 [ n = 29 ] vs -3.4 + / - 0.7 standard deviations below normal [ n = 21 ] , p less than 0.05 ) . the benefit of streptokinase was more marked in the peripheral infarct region ( -1.5 + / - 0.7 vs -2.1 + / - 0.6 , p less than 0.001 ) . as a result , the ejection fraction was slightly higher in treated versus control groups ( 46 + / - 10 vs 43 + / - 7 % , respectively ; difference not significant ) . at 5 weeks , function in the streptokinase and control groups had diverged further because of continued improvement in the streptokinase-treated patients . this study shows that streptokinase benefits left ventricular ( lv ) function by 1 to 4 days after ami , earlier than previously reported . the benefit was not limited to the peripheral infarct region , where ischemia might have been less severe , but was also seen in the central infarct region . the implication is that thrombolytic therapy can improve lv function during the period of myocardial stunning , while myocardial function is still recovering . 
effects of nisoldipine on myocardial ischemia during exercise and during daily activity . the antiischemic properties of nisoldipine , a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist , were assessed in a multicenter , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial by repeated exercise testing and 72-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring in 82 patients with coronary artery disease . patients with positive treadmill stress test results and greater than or equal to 2 ischemic episodes per 24 hours were included in this study . administration of all chronic antiischemic medications except beta blockers were discontinued . during the first week all patients received placebo twice daily . during the second and third weeks , 41 patients received nisoldipine 10 mg and 41 patients received placebo twice daily . in the placebo group there were no changes in exercise parameters or in ambulatory electrocardiographic parameters . in the nisoldipine group , exercise duration increased from 403 to 448 seconds ( p = 0.0035 ) , time to 1 mm of st depression increased from 224 to 298 seconds ( p = 0.002 ) , time to pain increased from 241 to 321 seconds ( p = 0.01 ) , and maximal st depression was reduced from 2.6 to 2.3 mm ( p = 0.002 ) . among the ambulatory electrocardiographic parameters in the nisoldipine group , only the number of episodes was reduced , from 14.4 to 11.6 ( p = 0.0013 ) per patient . there was no significant reduction in total ischemic time ( 132 vs 120 minutes per patient ) . no significant side effects were observed . this is the largest clinical trial to date on the effects of nisoldipine on myocardial ischemia . the results indicate that nisoldipine was effective in improving all exercise parameters and only partially effective in suppressing ischemia during daily activity . 
usefulness of blood lactate as a predictor of shock development in acute myocardial infarction [ published erratum appears in am j cardiol 1991 apr 15 ; 67 ( 9 ) :912 ] data were obtained and analyzed in 229 patients admitted to the coronary care unit from november 1988 through july 1989 . the patients were classified into 2 groups : patients without or with only mild left ventricular failure ( killip class i or ii ) during their hospital stay ( group i ) , and patients who were in killip class i or ii on admission but developed cardiogenic shock during hospitalization ( group ii ) . discriminant function analysis was performed using the following variables : patients ' age , history of previous myocardial infarction , diabetes mellitus , blood lactate , urea , creatinine , creatine kinase , aspartate aminotransferase , lactate dehydrogenase concentrations , and chest x-ray cardiothoracic ratio . variables that were found to significantly discriminate the 2 groups of patients were age , previous infarction , x-ray cardiothoracic ratio , blood urea and lactate concentrations . the risk index was computed , and blood lactate was the variable with the greatest predictive power for shock development . the sensitivity , specificity and predictive value of the risk index , taking various cutoff points , were calculated . with a cutoff value of 1 , sensitivity was 65 % , specificity 91 % , positive predictive value 36 % and negative predictive value 97 % . with a cutoff value of 2 , sensitivity was 53 % , specificity 99 % , positive predictive value 82 % and negative predictive value 96 % . 
long-term follow-up of the first 56 patients treated with intracoronary self-expanding stents ( the lausanne experience ) . fifty-six patients treated with the self-expanding intracoronary stent for acute occlusion during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) or restenosis were followed for 24 to 43 months ( mean 34 ) . successful deployment and positioning were achieved in 55 of 56 patients . occlusion of the stent was documented in 8 patients , the earliest occurring 30 minutes and the latest 8 months after implantation . three of the occluded stents were recanalized by ptca . coronary artery bypass grafts ( cabg ) were required in 4 patients : 1 for symptomatic restenosis , 1 for left main stenosis adjacent to the stent and 2 for acute ischemia during the in-hospital stay ( less than 7 days ) . myocardial infarction occurred in the territory of the stented vessel in 8 patients . seven patients died between 1 day and 19 months after implantation . local bleeding complications occurred in 10 patients , with 5 requiring blood transfusion . restenosis within the stent was angiographically documented in 5 patients ( 9 % ) . a new lesion in the treated vessel was found in 10 patients , followed by implantation of a second stent in 5 and a third stent in 1 patient . medical treatment was instituted in the remaining 4 patients . forty-nine patients ( 88 % ) are alive . twenty-nine patients ( 51 % ) remained asymptomatic , and 44 ( 78 % ) are in a better functional class than before the implantation . eleven of 15 ( 79 % ) major complications ( acute occlusions or deaths ) occurred in patients who received a stent in the left anterior descending coronary artery . in conclusion , implantation of the self-expanding intracoronary stent appears to be a new therapeutic option for treating acute occlusion or restenosis after ptca . 
capabilities of supine exercise electrocardiography versus exercise radionuclide angiography in predicting coronary events . the ability of supine exercise electrocardiography and exercise radionuclide angiography to predict time to subsequent cardiac events ( cardiac death , nonfatal myocardial infarction or late coronary bypass grafting or angioplasty ) were compared in 265 patients with normal resting electrocardiograms who were not taking digoxin . all patients had undergone coronary catheterization and were initially treated medically . follow-up study was performed at a median of 51 months . separate logistic regression models , which had been previously developed to predict 3-vessel or left main coronary artery disease ( cad ) , were compared using a cox regression analysis to predict time to a subsequent cardiac event . the exercise electrocardiography model , consisting of the magnitude of st depression , exercise heart rate and patient gender , was a powerful predictor ( chi-square = 30.8 , p less than 0.0001 ) of subsequent events . the exercise radionuclide angiography model , which included the exercise response of the pressure-volume ratio in addition to the exercise electrocardiography variables , had similar prognostic power ( chi-square = 31.8 , p less than 0.0001 ) . in a separate analysis considering only cardiac death and nonfatal myocardial infarction , the exercise electrocardiography model remained a significant predictor of events ( chi-square = 12.2 , p less than 0.001 ) . none of the radionuclide angiography variables added significantly to the prognostic power of the exercise electrocardiography model . thus , in patients with a normal resting electrocardiogram who are not taking digoxin , the supine exercise electrocardiography model that predicts 3-vessel or left main cad also predicts future cardiac events . exercise radionuclide angiography does not provide any additional prognostic information in such patients . 
cardiac arrest in seattle : conventional versus amiodarone drug evaluation ( the cascade study ) . this randomized study evaluates survivors of out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation ( vf ) not associated with a q-wave acute myocardial infarction who are deemed to be at a high risk of recurrence of vf . it compares the outcome of treatment with empirically administered amiodarone with the outcome of treatment with other antiarrhythmic agents guided by electrophysiologic testing or holter recording , or both . the goal of therapy guided by electrophysiologic testing is to suppress inducible ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) or vf . holter recording is used as the primary means of adjusting therapy only if patients are noninducible at the baseline electrophysiologic study . patients are stratified according to cardiac diagnosis , ejection fraction , and whether they had previously received an antiarrhythmic agent that failed to suppress their arrhythmias . the primary end point of the study is total cardiac mortality . the first patient was enrolled in a pilot study on april 26 , 1984 . by october 1988 , 142 patients had been enrolled in the full study and , as of may 1990 , 199 patients have been enrolled . compliance with therapy has been good , with no patients lost to follow-up and 8 % of patients , equal in both drug groups , crossing over to alternate therapy . baseline clinical characteristics remain similar in amiodarone and conventional drug groups . pulmonary toxicity with amiodarone is 7 % at 1 year , with no patients dying of pulmonary toxicity . in the first 142 patients , the overall 1-year cardiac mortality was 19 % , with a 17 % arrhythmic mortality ( either vf or presumed arrhythmic death ) . 
relation of cardiac output at rest and during exercise to age in essential hypertension . it has been suggested that the decline of cardiac output with age is due to increased prevalence of disease , particularly occult coronary artery disease . therefore , the relation of cardiac output ( direct oxygen fick method ) to age was analyzed in 110 sixteen - to 64-year-old men with world health organization stage i or ii essential hypertension at the time of the hemodynamic study , who were alive and free of cardiovascular complications 7 years later . at supine and seated rest , during upright bicycle exercise at 50 w and and at peak work load , cardiac output was inversely ( p less than 0.01 ) related to age . these relations were independent of weight and mean intraarterial pressure . stroke volume decreased with advancing age at supine rest , but not at rest and during exercise in the seated position . heart rate was not affected by age in the supine position , but was slower in older patients during upright rest and at peak exercise . in conclusion , in patients with essential hypertension who remained free of cardiovascular complications for 7 years , cardiac output was independently and inversely related to age at various levels of activity . these findings suggest that occult cardiovascular disease does not explain the decline in cardiac output with age in patients with essential hypertension . 
comparison of the effects of guanadrel sulfate and propranolol on blood pressure , functional capacity , serum lipoproteins and glucose in systemic hypertension . in a controlled , double-blind , crossover study , the effects of guanadrel sulfate and propranolol on blood pressure ( bp ) and selected cardiopulmonary and metabolic variables were compared in 15 physically active and moderately hypertensive subjects . guanadrel sulfate reduced systolic and diastolic bp at rest by -16 and -15 mm hg , and at maximal exercise by -33 and -13 mm hg , respectively ( p less than 0.005 ) , without affecting submaximal oxygen consumption ( vo2 ) , maximal vo2 , ventilatory threshold , forced vital capacity , forced expiratory volume in 1 second , or fatigue , as assessed by perceived exertion . in contrast , propranolol significantly decreased diastolic bp at rest ( -16 mm hg ) and systolic bp at maximal exercise ( -44 mm hg ) ; however , it significantly decreased submaximal vo2 ( -3.9 ml.kg-1 . min-1 ) , maximal vo2 ( -3.9 ml.kg-1 . min-1 ) , ventilatory threshold ( -0.3 liters.min-1 ) , minute ventilation at submaximal exercise ( -7.3 liters.min-1 ) , forced expiratory volume in 1 second ( -0.27 liters ) , and concomitantly increased the rating of perceived exertion at maximal exercise ( 1.9 u ) . guanadrel sulfate was also associated with significant decreases in mean fasting plasma glucose and total serum cholesterol , whereas propranolol resulted in an increase in serum triglycerides ( p less than 0.05 ) . in contrast to propranolol , guanadrel sulfate appears to decrease bp without evoking negative metabolic consequences or impairing exercise tolerance . 
comparison of ambulatory left ventricular ejection fraction and blood pressure in systemic hypertension in patients with and without increased left ventricular mass . to evaluate the effects of long-standing systemic hypertension on left ventricular ( lv ) function during daily activities , ambulatory radionuclide monitoring of lv ejection fraction ( ef ) and blood pressure was performed during exercise and other structured activities in 31 hypertensive patients . patients were divided into 3 groups based on the absence of lv hypertrophy ( group 1 [ n = 16 ] , lv mass 107 + / - 12 g/m2 ) , presence of lv hypertrophy without electrocardiographic changes ( group 2 [ n = 10 ] , lv mass 141 + / - 8 g/m2 ) and lv hypertrophy with associated electrocardiographic changes ( group 3 [ n = 5 ] , lv mass 158 + / - 9 g/m2 ) . the groups were similar with respect to age , baseline medication , treated and untreated blood pressure , resting ef and treadmill exercise time . patients in group 3 had the longest history of hypertension . peak filling rate was normal in group 1 ( 2.9 + / - 0.4 end-diastolic volume/s ) , but reduced at rest in groups 2 ( 2.4 + / - 0.4 ) and 3 ( 2.1 + / - 0.3 ) . patients in group 1 had normal ef responses to exercise and mental stress testing , as well as during routine ambulatory activities . patients in group 2 had a blunted ef response to exercise , and those in group 3 had a significantly abnormal response . both group 2 and 3 patients demonstrated abnormal ef responses to mental stress , as well as cold pressor testing in association with significant increases in mean arterial pressure and marked reduction in diastolic filling rate . decreases in ef were also observed during routine patient monitoring in 3 group 3 patients and 4 group 2 patients . these events were associated with significantly increased blood pressure . 
abnormal baroreflex control of heart rate in decompensated congestive heart failure and reversal after compensation . congestive heart failure ( chf ) causes impairment of baroreflex control of heart rate ( hr ) . to determine if this derangement is reversible , the cardiac chronotropic control was assessed in 10 patients with class iv chronic chf of various etiologies before and after compensation achieved by bed rest , salt restriction , diuretics and vasodilators . mean time between the 2 studies was 15 + / - 3 days . the management was modified 3 days before the second autonomic evaluation , so as to reestablish the same diet and pharmacologic conditions of the previous study . compensation led to significant reduction in symptom-based class , body weight , and pulmonary and systemic congestion . mean + / - standard error of the mean hr responses ( beats/min ) before and after compensation were , respectively : ( 1 ) to atropine ( 0.04 mg/kg ) : 10 + / - 2 and 27 + / - 2 ( p less than 0.01 ) ; ( 2 ) to handgrip ( 30 % maximum capacity , 1 minute ) : 9 + / - 2 and 19 + / - 3 ( p less than 0.005 ) ; ( 3 ) to headup tilt ( 5 minutes ) : 4 + / - 3 and 20 + / - 4 ( p less than 0.005 ) . mean + / - standard error of the mean baroreflex sensitivity ( ms/mm hg ) of rr responses to phenylephrine and amyl nitrate-induced changes in systolic pressure was , respectively , in each condition : phenylephrine , 0.9 + / - 0.2 and 8 + / - 2.3 ( p less than 0.05 ) ; amyl nitrate , 0.3 + / - 0.2 and 4.1 + / - 1.1 ( p less than 0.05 ) . a significant correlation between improvement in hr responses to atropine and tilt and changes in body weight was obtained . these findings show a reversible component of impaired baroreflex control of hr in severe chf , possibly due to its congestive effects . 
doppler echocardiographic study of porcine bioprosthetic heart valves in the aortic valve position in patients without evidence of cardiac dysfunction . to study the natural history of the hemodynamic performance of bioprosthetic heart valves , doppler echocardiograms were recorded in a group of clinically stable patients at 2 and 5 years after replacement of native aortic valves with bioprosthetic valves . eighteen patients completed a 2-year and 26 patients a 5-year follow-up examination . the effective orifice areas of identical models of bioprosthetic valves ( hancock ii ) were determined in vitro in a left-sided heart pulse duplicator system . in vivo doppler-derived effective orifice areas were compared with the in vitro measurements for the same valve size . at both the 2 - and 5-year follow-up examinations , the doppler-derived effective orifice area was significantly less than the in vitro area ( p less than 0.0001 at each interval ) . ten of 16 valves evaluated serially decreased greater than 0.20 cm2 in the doppler-derived effective orifice area between studies . the mean decrease in effective orifice area in valves evaluated serially was 0.25 + / - 0.29 cm2 ( p less than 0.005 ) . the peak transaortic gradient increased from 21 + / - 6 to 27 + / - 8 mm hg ( p less than 0.01 ) . the mean transaortic gradient increased from 12 + / - 4 to 15 + / - 7 mm hg ( p less than 0.05 ) . it is concluded that serial doppler echocardiographic studies demonstrate a deterioration in the hemodynamic performance of bioprosthetic valves over time in patients with no symptoms or signs of valvular dysfunction and that doppler echocardiography may be useful for identifying subclinical bioprosthetic valvular dysfunction . 
clinical and doppler echocardiographic follow-up after percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty for aortic valve stenosis . percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty has been shown to increase the aortic orifice area and to improve clinical symptoms . however , there are only few data concerning long-term results after balloon valvuloplasty . in this study , 36 patients ( 11 men , 25 women , mean age 75 + / - 8 years ) were followed after balloon valvuloplasty for a period of up to 18 months by means of clinical parameters and repeated doppler echocardiographic measurements after 1 , 3 , 6 , 12 and 18 months . invasive measurements revealed a decrease of the systolic peak gradient from 78 + / - 24 to 38 + / - 13 mm hg ( p less than 0.001 ) , and an increase in the aortic orifice area from 0.58 + / - 0.23 to 0.93 + / - 0.2 cm2 ( p less than 0.001 ) . the doppler echocardiographic approach revealed that the maximal instantaneous gradient decreased from 96 + / - 26 to 67 + / - 22 mm hg ( p less than 0.001 ) . the aortic orifice area increased from 0.49 + / - 0.16 to 0.73 + / - 0.21 cm2 ( p less than 0.001 ) . three patients ( 8 % ) died in the hospital . after hospital discharge , 16 patients ( 44 % ) died and 8 patients ( 22 % ) underwent successful aortic valve replacement after a mean follow-up of 8 + / - 6 months . nine patients ( 25 % ) were alive after a follow-up period of 18 months . seven of these ( 19 % ) remained clinically improved . during follow-up , the doppler echocardiographic results revealed a continuous trend toward the preprocedural severity of the aortic valve stenosis . progression of restenosis assessed by doppler echocardiographic measurements was accelerated in the group of patients who subsequently died or underwent repeat balloon valvuloplasty or aortic valve replacement . 
indapamide : a diuretic of choice for the treatment of hypertension ? in recent years , the therapeutic approach to mild hypertension has evolved from a stepped care approach to one including varied , initial monotherapies , with the selection of drug based on factors present in an individual patient , followed by combination therapy . the greatest cumulative experience of the value of antihypertensive therapy has been obtained with diuretics . the reduction in risk of cardiovascular disease with successful antihypertensive therapy using conventional agents , including diuretics , is not as great as might have been anticipated by the magnitude of change in blood pressure . this could be due to antecedent cardiovascular injury prior to therapy or to risk factors induced by therapy . the recent introduction of a new generation of drugs with combined diuretic and hypotensive effects that reduce blood pressure without inducing the biochemical changes associated with thiazides , offers an opportunity to evaluate this question . indapamide is the first of this new generation to be released . its pharmacologic characteristics show that it has the prerequisites to be considered a first-line drug for use in hypertension . it meets the requirements of a phase ii or second generation drug in that it has similar efficacy , but less short term toxicity than first generation drugs . it has been introduced at a cost that is competitive with thiazides and potassium-sparing combination drugs and is cheaper than many other classes of antihypertensive drugs . the major caution in promoting its use is that its long term effect on morbidity and mortality in hypertensive disease has not yet been evaluated . in summary , this is a promising new drug that has the potential to replace first generation thiazides in the routine management of hypertension . 
gonococcal endocarditis : twenty-five year experience . gonococcal endocarditis is a devastating albeit rare complication of disseminated gonorrhea . it virtually disappeared as a disease entity with the advent of antibiotic therapy . recently , it has reappeared with surprisingly high frequency for unclear reasons . since 1983 , the authors have observed six episodes of this disease in five patients , the largest series reported to date . it is predominantly a disease of young people without underlying valvular heart disease . characteristic clinical features include a high frequency of congestive heart failure and nephritis and a proclivity for aortic valve involvement , commonly with associated ring abscess , and large vegetations . genitourinary symptoms , arthralgias , and rash are uncommon . previously undescribed features include involvement of all four valves simultaneously , recurrence on an aortic valve prosthesis , and a high frequency of terminal complement deficiencies . precipitous hemodynamic deterioration despite appropriate therapy is not uncommon , and overall mortality rate remains an alarming 19 % . 
prevalence and association of asteroid hyalosis with systemic diseases . we performed a cross-sectional study of 12,205 patients , which identified 101 patients ( 0.83 % ) with asteroid hyalosis . these patients were examined for associated systemic and ocular conditions . diabetes mellitus was found in 29 of the patients with asteroid hyalosis ( 29 % ) , as compared to ten of 101 ( 10 % ) control subjects ( p = .0007 ) . an increased prevalence of systemic arterial hypertension ( 61 of 101 [ 60 % ] patients with asteroid hyalosis compared with 29 of 101 [ 29 % ] control subjects ; p = .0001 ) and atherosclerotic vascular disease ( 30 of 101 [ 30 % ] patients with asteroid hyalosis compared with 13 of 101 [ 13 % ] control subjects ; p = .006 ) was also discovered in the asteroid hyalosis group . additionally , patients with asteroid hyalosis were found to be more hyperopic than control subjects ( p = .009 ) . 
effects of the phospholipase inhibitor mepacrine on injury in ischemic and metabolically inhibited adult isolated myocytes . the phospholipase inhibitor mepacrine has been shown to delay cell death of metabolically inhibited cultured cardiomyocytes . the present study was initiated to determine if mepacrine also delays cell death and development of osmotic fragility of both metabolically inhibited and ischemic adult rat cardiomyocytes . isolated myocyte suspensions were incubated with 3 mmol/l ( millimolar ) iodoacetic acid and 6 mmol/l amytal ( inhibited ) or were pelleted into a slurry and layered with oil ( ischemic ) in the presence and absence of 10 or 50 mumol/l ( micromolar ) mepacrine . rates of contracture , cell viability as determined by trypan blue permeability , cell viability after osmotic swelling in 170 mosm media ( osmotic fragility ) , and cell morphology were monitored . mepacrine had no effects on rates of contracture , but was found to significantly delay cell death during isotonic incubations of both metabolically inhibited and ischemic cells . in contrast , mepacrine had no effect on the development of osmotic fragility . incubation of metabolically inhibited myocytes in calcium-free media did not delay contracture or cell injury , but did attenuate the protective effects of mepacrine . this study confirms previous reports that mepacrine protects cells from injury , extends the observations of protection to ischemic isolated adult myocytes , but shows that development of osmotic fragility is not inhibited by mepacrine . 
susceptibility to coxsackievirus b3-induced chronic myocarditis maps near the murine tcr alpha and myhc alpha loci on chromosome 14 . this study was undertaken to determine the genetic control of host susceptibility to coxsackievirus b3 ( cvb3 ) - induced chronic myocarditis in a mouse model . an autosomal recessive autoimmune myocardial disease ( amd ) gene ( possibly more than one gene ) , which determined susceptibility to cvb3-induced chronic myocarditis in the a/j and dba/2j inbred mouse strains , was mapped to a segment of chromosome 14 . data from both the axb/bxa recombinant inbred ( ri ) strains and the b10.d2 ( 57n ) h-8b congenic mice supported this linkage relationship . analysis of the axb/bxa ri strain distribution patterns suggested that amd maps distal to the np-2 , tcr alpha , and myhc alpha loci . 
postoperative myocardial ischemia in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery . s.p.i. research group . cardiac morbidity and mortality after coronary artery bypass graft ( cabg ) surgery continue to be significant problems . to determine the prevalence , characteristics , and prognostic importance of postoperative myocardial ischemia after cabg surgery , the authors monitored 50 patients continuously for 10 perioperative days with the use of two-lead electrocardiography ( ecg ) . ecg changes consistent with ischemia were defined as a reversible st depression of 1 mm or greater or an elevation of 2 mm or greater from baseline , lasting at least 1 min . baseline was adjusted for positional changes and temporal drift . all episodes were verified , with the use of the ecg monitor printout ( ecg complexes ) , by two independent blinded investigators . clinical care was not controlled by study protocol , and clinicians were unaware of the research data collected . twenty-six of 50 patients ( 52 % ) had 207 episodes of perioperative ischemia ( 3,409 ischemic minutes ) . postoperatively , ischemia developed in 48 % of patients , compared with 12 % preoperatively and 10 % intraoperatively before bypass . postoperative ischemia was most common in the early period ( postoperative days [ pods ] 0-2 ; 38 % of patients ) , peaking during the first 2 h after revascularization , and less common during the late postoperative period ( pods 3-7 ; 24 % of patients ) . almost all ( 120 of 122 ; 98 % ) postoperative episodes ( after tracheal extubation ) were asymptomatic : only 9 of 70 ( 13 % ) early episodes were detected by clinical ecg monitoring . postoperative ischemia did not appear to be related to acute changes in myocardial oxygen demand : only 39 % of the postoperative episodes were preceded by a greater than 20 % increase in heart rate . however , tachycardia persisted throughout the postoperative week ( 22-33 % of all heart rates greater than 100 beats per min ) , and patients with postoperative ischemia ( pod 0 ) more frequently had tachycardia ( median 43 % vs. 12 % of the time ; p less than 0.01 ) . five adverse cardiac outcomes occurred on the day of surgery ; all five were preceded by postoperative ischemia , three by intraoperative ischemia before bypass , and none by preoperative ischemia . patients with late postoperative ischemia did not have an adverse cardiac outcome . the authors conclude the following : 1 ) ischemia is more prevalent postoperatively than preoperatively or intraoperatively before bypass ; 2 ) the incidence of postoperative ischemia peaks shortly after revascularization , during which time it is symptomatically silent , difficult to detect , and related to adverse cardiac outcome ; 3 ) late postoperative ischemia also is silent , but it is less prevalent and not associated with in-hospital adverse cardiac outcome ; and 4 ) a relationship between ischemia and persistently elevated postoperative heart rate may exist and warrants additional investigation . 
