ultrasonic integrated backscatter two-dimensional imaging : evaluation of m-mode guided acquisition and immediate analysis in 55 consecutive patients . we have shown previously that cardiac cycle-dependent integrated backscatter characterizes the physical state of myocardium in patients with ischemic heart disease and cardiomyopathy . in the present study the clinical applicability of m-mode guided two-dimensional integrated backscatter imaging was defined in evaluation of 55 nonselected patients . the mean amplitude of cyclic variation of integrated backscatter in normal segments ( long-axis view ) was as follows : basal septum , 4.2 + / - 1.3 db ( mean + / - sd ; n = 27 ) , mid-septum , 4.5 + / - 1.0 db ( n = 26 ) , basal posterior , 4.8 + / - 1.0 db ( n = 30 ) , and mid-posterior , 4.8 + / - 1.2 decibels ( n = 27 ) . the respective mean delay values ( r wave to nadir ) were as follows : 0.89 + / - 0.09 , 0.84 + / - 0.09 , 0.86 + / - 0.09 , and 0.85 + / - 0.12 . at least one cardiac cycle could be analyzed fully in 62 % of patients . limitations included technically difficult two-dimensional echocardiography , inadequate m-line orientation , technically remediable errors , or poor quality integrated backscatter images . in abnormal segments ( n = 13 ) cyclic variation was reduced and delay was prolonged ( 1.2 + / - 1.1 db and 1.21 + / - 1.1 , respectively ) . intraobserver and interobserver variability for amplitude measurements were modest , with respective correlation coefficients of r = 0.93 ; r = 0.72 . the findings demonstrate that m-mode -- assisted integrated backscatter is a practical approach for characterization of regional myocardial properties promptly and at the bedside in a large portion of patients with cardiac disease . 
left and right ventricular flows by doppler echocardiography : serial measurements in patients with aortic regurgitation during exercise , cold pressor stimulation , and vasodilation . to test the practicality of doppler echocardiography to measure serial change , biventricular outputs were measured in 15 patients with aortic regurgitation during control periods and during interventions of bicycle exercise , cold pressor stimulation , and vasodilation . biventricular stroke volumes were measured in 10 normal subjects for validation of methods and differed by 2.8 % . reading errors were 3.7 % . signal quality improved between the first and last observation ( p less than 0.05 ) . velocity signals were corrected for intercept angles , which averaged 12 and 19 degrees for right heart flows and 31 and 32 degrees for the left side of the heart in all subjects . negative correlations occurred between intercept angles and the chronologic order in which the patients were studied for left ( p = 0.02 ) and right ( p = 0.05 ) flows . mean flow areas varied 9 % in the left ventricle and 20 % in the right ventricle . total variability for measuring flow determined from control values was 11 % to 13 % . when twice the variability was used as the detectable level of change , only exercise provoked real increases in biventricular flows in the majority of patients . we conclude that serial measurements of flow by doppler echocardiographic methods had to exceed 20 % to 25 % to achieve significant change . measuring intercept angle , resolving flow area , and learning are variables that need greater emphasis . 
flow patterns in dilated cardiomyopathy : a pulsed-wave and color flow doppler study . in 48 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy , pulsed-wave and color doppler examination were performed . in addition , 14 normal patients served as control subjects . peak inflow velocity at the level of the mitral valve , middle left ventricle , and apex and outflow velocity at the level of the apex , middle left ventricle , and subaortic area were measured . in normal patients there was brisk propagation of inflow velocity to the apex . patients with dilated cardiomyopathy demonstrated delayed propagation and prolongation of the duration of inflow compared with control subjects ( p less than 0.04 ) . continuous apical flow was visualized in 25 % of dilated cardiomyopathies and in no normal patients . apical velocities were significantly increased in cardiomyopathies with significant mitral regurgitation . outflow velocities were decreased in dilated cardiomyopathy . in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and apical dyskinesis , flow directed toward the base was measured in the middle left ventricle during isovolumic relaxation secondary to dyskinetic rebound . patterns of abnormal flow in dilated cardiomyopathies are readily apparent by color m-mode and two-dimensional color doppler . 
influence of doppler sample volume location on the assessment of changes in mitral inflow velocity profiles . previous studies that have validated doppler indexes of mitral inflow have used pulsed wave sample volume locations either at the level of the mitral valve anulus or at the tips of the mitral valve leaflets . although significant differences between absolute values for peak velocities and velocity time integrals at these sample volume locations have previously been reported , no information exists that has compared changes in inflow profiles after an intervention to improve left ventricular filling . to address this question , 13 patients with severe pulmonary hypertension ( mean pulmonary artery pressure , 50 + / - 13 mm hg ) caused by chronic thromboembolic disease were studied with use of doppler echocardiography immediately before and after surgical reduction of pulmonary hypertension ( pulmonary vascular resistance decreased from 916 + / - 413 to 233 + / - 89 dynes.sec.cm5 ) . this clinical model has been shown to have abnormal mitral inflow velocity profiles that improve markedly after surgery . doppler measures of early and late peak velocities were significantly lower both before and after surgery when sampling at the mitral anulus compared with the leaflet tips , although late filling parameters and the deceleration of early flow velocity tended to differ little . with surgery , the significant increase in peak early velocity and the ratio of early to late velocity was present regardless of the sample volume location ( peak e at leaflet tips , 47.1 + / - 16.0 to 68.9 + / - 15.4 [ p less than 0.001 ] , and at anulus , 40.7 + / - 11.3 to 56.2 + / - 14.6 cm/sec [ p less than 0.001 ] ; peak e/a at leaflet tips , 0.95 + / - 0.4 to 1.55 + / - 0.9 , and at anulus , 0.78 + / - 0.3 to 1.32 + / - 0.7 [ both p less than 0.02 ] ) . 
prevalence of aortic regurgitation by color flow doppler in relation to aortic root size . to determine whether there is a correlation between aortic root size and the prevalence of aortic regurgitation , we performed color flow doppler echocardiographic studies on 1015 consecutive patients during a 3-month period . patients were grouped according to their m-mode aortic root diameter as measured in the left parasternal position . the measured groups ranged from 2.0 to 4.5 cm , grouped at 0.1 cm intervals . as the aortic root size enlarged , the prevalence of aortic regurgitation increased linearly ( p less than 0.001 ; correlation coefficient , r = 0.75 ) . at an aortic root size in the " small normal " range of 2.0 to 2.4 cm , the prevalence of aortic regurgitation was 0 % to 15 % . in the " intermediate " and " top normal " ranges of 2.9 to 3.7 cm , the prevalence of aortic regurgitation increased linearly from 15 % to 47 % . with aortic root dilation , the prevalence of aortic root regurgitation was generally more than 50 % . the severity of aortic regurgitation was semiquantified . aortic root size was not a good indicator for the severity of aortic regurgitation . patients with moderate and severe aortic regurgitation had variable aortic root sizes . throughout the range of aortic root sizes , mild aortic regurgitation predominated . we conclude that aortic regurgitation is a common finding in patients with aortic roots that are dilated or are in the " top normal " size range , that the prevalence of aortic regurgitation increases linearly with aortic root size , and that aortic root size does not correlate with the severity of aortic regurgitation . 
two-dimensional echocardiographic features of double outlet left ventricle . in a cyanotic newborn infant , the diagnosis of double outlet left ventricle was made from the two-dimensional echocardiographic examination . the diagnosis was later confirmed at cardiac catheterization and surgery . the parasternal and subcostal views were especially useful for identification of the origin of both great arteries from the morphologic left ventricle . a review of the medical literature since 1967 revealed 77 cases of double outlet left ventricle , most of which were diagnosed only at surgery or postmortem examination . the anatomic features demonstrated with two-dimensional echocardiography in this case are representative of the findings cited most often in the cases reported in the medical literature . 
evolution of the continuity equation in the doppler echocardiographic assessment of the severity of valvular aortic stenosis . the use of doppler techniques has greatly enhanced the noninvasive ultrasound technique for evaluation of valvular aortic stenosis . m-mode and two-dimensional echocardiography could not reliably distinguish patients with severe aortic stenosis from those with milder obstructions . the hemodynamic information offered by doppler complemented echocardiographic imaging and provided an alternative modality for evaluation of patients with aortic stenosis . by application of the modified bernoulli equation , the pressure gradient across the stenotic aortic valve could be estimated by doppler echocardiography . though helpful and widely used , the information provided by the pressure gradient across the valve about the severity of the obstruction was not complete . the assessment of valvular aortic stenosis therefore includes an estimation of the valve area by application of the continuity equation . this review examines the maturation of the continuity equation by doppler techniques and discusses the implications of the procedure . 
the determination of aortic valve area by the gorlin formula : what the cardiac sonographer should know . the application of the gorlin formula in the cardiac catheterization laboratory is the standard of reference for the determination of aortic valve area . the continuity equation now enables the cardiac sonographer to determine aortic valve area noninvasively in the echocardiography laboratory . the comparison of the results obtained by the two methods is inevitable . the cardiac sonographer should have a basic understanding of the theory and pitfalls of the gorlin formula so that when conflicting results are obtained , the possible reasons why will be clear . 
the evaluation of the abdominal aorta : a " how-to " for cardiac sonographers . a thorough evaluation of the abdominal aorta can be readily achieved by use of the standard views of the echocardiographic examination . the ultrasound evaluation of the abdominal aorta represents a logical extension of the standard echocardiographic examination of the adult patient . this article provides the information needed to carry out a complete ultrasound examination of the abdominal aorta including the anatomy , the vascular disease , and the steps involved in accomplishing the ultrasound examination of the abdominal aorta . 
multivariate analysis in the prediction of death in hospital after acute myocardial infarction . prognostic factors in patients with acute myocardial infarction based on clinical and investigative data on admission were evaluated prospectively in 111 consecutive patients . seventeen patients ( 15.3 % ) died during hospital stay . age , a previous infarct , high killip class , cardiomegaly , high serum concentrations of cardiac enzymes , a low ejection fraction , and a high wall motion score index correlated significantly with in-hospital mortality ; whereas sex , risk factors , and pericardial effusion did not . multivariate analysis showed that age and the wall motion score index were the best predictors of death in hospital . wall motion detected by cross sectional echocardiography may reflect the extent of myocardial involvement . age and wall motion score index predicted in-hospital mortality with a sensitivity of 76.5 % , a specificity of 91.5 % , and a predictive accuracy of 89.2 % . age and the wall motion score index can be determined on admission and are useful for identifying patients at high risk of cardiac death who might benefit from early intervention . 
ischaemic left ventricular failure : evidence of sustained benefit after 18 months ' treatment with xamoterol . the long term effects of treatment with xamoterol in 14 patients aged 44-73 with mild to moderate heart failure as a result of ischaemic heart disease are reported . after 18 months ' treatment with xamoterol , patients were assessed in a randomised double blind crossover comparison of xamoterol ( 200 mg twice a day ) and placebo , each given for one month . compared with placebo , xamoterol significantly increased exercise duration and work done on a bicycle ergometer and reduced the maximum exercise heart rate . assessment of symptoms and activities at 12 months by visual analogue and likert scales showed a trend towards the relief of symptoms of breathlessness and tiredness and an improvement in activity . there was an improvement in the clinical signs of heart failure and no haemodynamic deterioration over a 12 month period as assessed by ejection fraction . the improvement in exercise tolerance , symptoms , and activities was sustained for 18 months without side effects or development of tolerance . 
transoesophageal echocardiography improves the diagnostic value of cardiac ultrasound in patients with carcinoid heart disease . transthoracic and transoesophageal cardiac echocardiography and doppler investigations were performed in 31 consecutive patients with malignant midgut carcinoid tumours . the transoesophageal images allowed measurement of the thickness of the atrioventricular valve leaflets and the superficial wall layers on the cavity side of both atria . the mean thickness of the anterior tricuspid leaflet was significantly greater than that of the mitral valve -- a difference not seen in a control group of age-matched patients without carcinoid tumours and with normal cardiac ultrasound findings . in addition , the edges of the tricuspid leaflets were thickened giving them a clubbed appearance . tricuspid incompetence was detected transoesophageally in 71 % of the patients with carcinoid compared with 57 % by transthoracic investigation . the inner layer of the right atrial wall in the carcinoid patients was significantly thicker than that of the left atrium and that of both atria in the controls . furthermore , patients with other signs of severe carcinoid heart disease had significantly thicker mean right atrial luminal wall layer than those with less or no signs of right heart disease . transoesophageal cardiac ultrasound investigation improved the diagnostic accuracy and seemed to show the structural changes typical of carcinoid heart disease established by histopathological investigations . 
echocardiographic diagnosis of a ruptured aneurysm of the sinus of valsalva : operation without catheterisation in seven patients . a ruptured aneurysm of the sinus of valsalva was diagnosed by doppler , colour , and cross sectional echocardiography in a consecutive series of seven patients . the diagnoses were confirmed at operation without cardiac catheterisation . examination by pulsed and continuous doppler echocardiography showed continuous turbulence in six patients with aneurysms rupturing into the right ventricular outflow tract and in the patient with rupture of an aneurysm of the non-coronary sinus into the right atrium . colour doppler echocardiography showed turbulent flow across the defects in all seven patients . a ventricular septal defect with aortic regurgitation was detected in one patient and an associated ventricular septal defect in another . doppler , colour , and cross sectional echocardiography were useful non-invasive techniques for diagnosing a ruptured aneurysm of the sinus of valsalva without the need for cardiac catheterisation . 
geographical clustering of risk factors and lifestyle for coronary heart disease in the scottish heart health study . a large cross sectional study , the scottish heart health study , of 10,359 men and women from 22 districts of scotland was undertaken to try to explain the geographical variation of coronary heart disease mortality . analysis by district showed that of the classic risk factors only cigarette smoking was strongly associated with heart disease mortality among both men and women . mean diastolic blood pressure was weakly associated with rates among men and high density lipoprotein cholesterol showed a strong negative association among women . total cholesterol showed a weak negative association with heart disease mortality , but , because the serum concentrations of cholesterol were uniformly high in all districts , a strong association with mortality would not be expected . in both men and women many dietary factors showed moderate or strong associations with mortality from coronary heart disease in a district -- of these a low consumption of vitamin c was most notable . other factors associated with heart disease included alcohol consumption and serum triglycerides among men , and obesity , physical activity , and serum triglycerides among women . many factors associated with heart disease showed strong intercorrelations . clustering of risk factors ( including smoking , alcohol , and diet among men , and smoking , diet , and obesity among women ) was associated with much of the regional variation in heart disease mortality in scotland . 
replacement of an aortic valve cusp after neonatal endocarditis . septic arthritis developed in a neonate after an infection of her hand . despite medical and surgical treatment endocarditis of her aortic valve developed and the resultant regurgitation required emergency surgery . at operation a new valve cusp was fashioned from preserved calf pericardium . nine years later she was well and had full exercise tolerance with minimal aortic regurgitation . 
hyponatraemia secondary to an inappropriately high release of antidiuretic hormone in cardiac tamponade . a spontaneous intrapericardial haemorrhage caused cardiac tamponade in a 29 year old paraplegic man who was being treated with warfarin . the associated persistent hyponatraemia , which was believed to be caused by an inappropriately high release of antidiuretic hormone , rapidly resolved after pericardiocentesis . 
cardiac catheterisation with 5 french catheters . from the beginning of november 1987 to the end of january 1989 , 526 coronary arteriograms and left ventricular angiograms were performed with 5 french coronary catheters . in 448 ( 85 % ) patients diagnostic pictures were obtained with three standard types of 5 french catheters ( no 4 judkins ) : that is , left coronary , right coronary , and pigtail catheters . in 60 patients ( 11.4 % ) various other 5 french catheters were required to complete the study . in nine patients ( 1.7 % ) , a 7 or 8 french catheter was used . major complications causing cardiac arrest or requiring urgent operation developed in five patients . sixty two patients ( 11.77 % ) had minor complications that required sublingual nitrates or a single bolus of atropine , or developed a haematoma that did not need intervention or had a mild reaction to the contrast material . complications of moderate severity developed in 17 patients ( 3.2 % ) : severe chest pain , arrhythmia requiring a temporary pacemaker , contrast reaction associated with hypotension , haematoma requiring blood transfusion , or a transient ischaemic episode . there were no deaths . 5 french catheters were used for routine coronary angiography and left ventriculography in 98.3 % of patients . there were no major complications related to femoral artery puncture . the routine use of 5 french coronary catheters should increase the feasibility of safe coronary angiography in outpatients and should reduce the cost of this investigation . 
discrepancies in the measurement of isovolumic relaxation time : a study comparing m mode and doppler echocardiography . mitral valve cusp separation on m mode echogram , the mitral valve opening artefact , and the onset of forward transmitral flow recorded by doppler echocardiography have all been taken to mark the end of isovolumic relaxation , while its onset has been taken either as the aortic closure sound ( a2 ) recorded phonocardiographically or the aortic closure artefact determined by doppler technique . possible differences in the measurement of the isovolumic relaxation time were studied when these landmarks were used in 44 healthy people , 14 patients with mitral stenosis , 21 patients with left ventricular hypertrophy , and 24 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy by recording m mode echograms of the mitral valve , and pulsed and continuous wave doppler spectra of transmitral flow , with simultaneous electrocardiograms and phonocardiograms . a2 was effectively synchronous with the aortic artefact . however , when the onset of doppler flow was regarded as the end of isovolumic relaxation , the interval was significantly longer than when mitral cusp separation on m mode echograms was used : by 25 ( 10 ) ms in healthy individuals , by 25 ( 15 ) ms in patients with left ventricular hypertrophy , and by 50 ( 35 ) ms in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy . in patients with mitral stenosis the interval was only 5 ( 5 ) ms longer . the mitral valve opening artefact consistently followed the onset of flow and corresponded much more closely to the e point on the m mode echogram . this shows that it occurred during the rapid filling period and well beyond isovolumic relaxation by any definition . thus isovolumic relaxation time measured from a2 to the onset of transmitral flow or the mitral valve opening artefact differs from that derived from a2 to mitral valve cusp separation . these intervals can not be used interchangeably to measure " isovolumic relaxation time " . 
analysis of side-effects of medium - and low-dose cyclosporin maintenance therapy in psoriasis . the side-effects of long-term cyclosporin a ( cya ) treatment in 26 patients with severe psoriasis were evaluated . these patients had a mean pasi score of 30.2 and were treated with cya for between 7 and 37 months ( mean 19.5 months ) . there were three groups according to the dose of cya , less than 2 mg/kg per day , 2-3 mg/kg per day and greater than 3 mg/kg per day . in all three groups , cya was found to be equally effective . treatment with cya was discontinued in 12 of the 26 patients because of nephrotoxicity and/or development of hypertension . one was in the less than 2 mg/kg per day group , three were in the 2-3 mg/kg per day group and eight in the greater than 3 mg/kg per day group . there was no hepatotoxicity with cya treatment . one patient developed two squamous cell carcinomas of the skin . 
multi-hospital eastern atlantic restenosis trial : design , recruitment , and feasibility . m-heart investigators . a randomized control trial was set up to examine factors that influence restenosis and determine the effects of corticosteroids on restenosis following successful ptca . the rationale for the study agent chosen , design , recruitment , and feasibility , as well as initial patient demographic data and initial results are presented . 
fractured and retained guide-wire fragment during coronary angioplasty -- unforeseen late sequelae . during a difficult coronary angioplasty , the tip of the guide wire became inadvertently wedged in a distal vessel , fractured , and retained in situ . because of the otherwise successful nature of the angioplasty and the patient 's great risk for cardiac surgery , it was elected to leave the wire fragment in place . recurrence of symptoms led to recatheterization , which in addition to restenosis of the original angioplasty site showed diffuse narrowing of the arterial segment that contained the retained wire fragment . this occurred despite systemic anticoagulation with coumadin in the interval between procedures . thus retained guide wire fragments in patent coronary arteries may cause arterial narrowing despite systemic anticoagulation . 
klinefelter 's syndrome with anomalous origin of left main coronary artery klinefelter 's syndrome is a rare entity . even rarer is an anomalous origin of the left main coronary artery . for both conditions to occur in the same patient is hence exceedingly rare . reported here is a never previously reported case of a coronary congenital anomaly in a patient with klinefelter 's syndrome together with the proper angiographic approach . 
entrapment of a folded-over introducer sheath in the iliofemoral artery : an unusual complication of ptca guiding catheter exchange an arterial introducer sheath became folded over in the iliac artery during ptca . this probably resulted from withdrawal of a doubled over judkins left coronary guiding catheter through the introducer sheath . nonsurgical , atraumatic removal was accomplished after the acute bend of the introducer sheath had been withdrawn to the site of arterial entrance . 
retrograde recanalization of an occluded posterior tibial artery by using a posterior tibial cutdown : two case reports . recanalization of two occluded posterior tibial arteries was successfully achieved by utilizing a retrograde approach via a posterior tibial artery cutdown at the level of the ankle . both cases were previously unsuccessfully attempted by using an antegrade approach . thus , the choice of access vessel ( arterial entry site ) becomes a crucial determinant of angioplasty success . 
simplified method for estimating true aortic valve mean gradient from simultaneous left ventricular and peripheral arterial pressure recordings . estimation of the aortic valve gradient by simultaneous recording of left ventricular and peripheral arterial pressures is subject to error due to delay and modulation of the arterial pressure contour as it propagates from the ascending aorta . this error can be corrected by averaging the mean gradients derived from unaltered and temporally aligned simultaneous left ventricular-peripheral arterial pressure tracings . in 26 patients with aortic stenosis and simultaneous recordings of ascending aortic and femoral arterial pressure we compared this method with a simplified approach in which the peripheral arterial pressure is partially aligned by advancing it against the left ventricular pressure by 50 % of the time delay of the simultaneously recorded upstrokes . gradients measured this way predicted the true aortic valve gradients ( left ventricular-ascending aortic ) with a mean difference of +1.1 mm hg ( range = +10 to -5 mm hg ) . we recommend use of this simplified method of correction because it predicts true aortic valve gradient equally well as the averaging technique ( r = 0.977 vs. 0.979 ) and requires half the time and effort . 
experience with the use of coronary autoperfusion catheter during complicated angioplasty . between february and july of 1989 , 22 patients underwent the use of the stack autoperfusion catheter following acute occlusion or obstructive dissection during coronary angioplasty ; in 20 cases conventional balloon was used in an attempt to correct the angiographic appearance followed by the use of stack catheter when results were sub-optimal . only 1 patient ( 4.5 % ) required surgical revascularization . although our study is not prospective or randomized , our observations suggest a significant impact in decreasing the need for emergency surgical revascularization after complicated coronary angioplasty with the use of this approach . 
does percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty accelerate atherosclerotic lesions ? recent reports have suggested that angioplasty may cause or accelerate coronary arterial stenoses secondary to traumatic injury . ninety-four coronary angiograms performed in a 1 yr period were reviewed in patients who had successful coronary angioplasty 6 to 30 mo ( mean 10.7 ) prior to restudy . restenosis was found in 43 of 140 dilated lesions ( 31 % ) and in 41 of 94 patients ( 44 % ) . thirty-three ( 35 % ) patients had new or progressive lesions outside the angioplasty site . new or progressive lesions occurred with similar frequency in the arteries that did not have angioplasty ( 23/155 = 15 % ) as in the arteries that did ( 13/127 = 10 % ; chi-square n.s. ) . in the arteries which underwent angioplasty , new or progressive lesions occurred as commonly proximal to the ptca site ( 7/14 , 50 % ) as distal ( 6/13 , 46 % ) . new or progressive lesions occurred in 29 % of patients with concomitant restenosis , and 40 % of those without restenosis ( chi-square n.s. ) . no clinical , angiographic , or procedural factors distinguished patients with new and progressive lesions in target vessels from those without these lesions in target vessels . patients with progressive lesions anywhere in the coronary tree were more likely to have had a shorter duration of anginal symptoms before angioplasty and a family history of coronary disease when compared with patients without progressive atherosclerosis . in conclusion , new and progressive lesions outside the angioplasty site occur after the procedure but appear unrelated to the restenosis process or traumatic injury by angioplasty instrumentation . 
myocarditis simulating acute transmural myocardial infarction . a patient with cardiogenic shock had typical electrocardiographic findings of acute anterior transmural myocardial infarction . cardiac catheterization revealed normal coronary arteries and severe biventricular failure . postmortem examination confirmed normal coronary arteries ; acute myocarditis , but no evidence for infarction , was found . electrocardiographic changes of myocarditis may be indistinguishable from acute transmural infarction . in suspected cases , cardiac catheterization should be considered prior to thrombolytic therapy . 
use of a guiding catheter for contralateral femoral artery angioplasty . we describe a unique method employing a transseptal sheath as a " guiding catheter " that allows contralateral retrograde femoral artery access to perform balloon angioplasty of proximal superficial femoral artery lesions . this technique simplifies arterial access , provides support for crossing lesions , and allows angiographic visualization of target lesions during the procedure . 
percutaneous valvuloplasty in a patient with mitral stenosis following surgical annuloplasty . a case is described in which a patient with a carpentier-edwards annuloplasty ring developed mitral stenosis and was treated with percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty . possible mechanisms for the development of mitral stenosis are briefly discussed . 
salvage from cardiogenic shock by atherectomy after failed emergency coronary artery angioplasty . in this case report of a patient undergoing angioplasty for cardiogenic shock during acute myocardial infarction , recurrent occlusion resulted in recurrence of shock . atherectomy reestablished lasting patency and reversed the patient 's hemodynamic collapse . atherectomy deserves further investigation as a means to salvage vessel patency during unsuccessful coronary angioplasty . 
left ventricular rupture complicating percutaneous mitral commissurotomy : salvage using percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass support . left ventricular rupture resulting in death has been reported to be a complication of percutaneous mitral commissurotomy . we report a 71-year-old man in whom a left ventricular rupture occurred during percutaneous mitral commissurotomy and resulted in hemodynamic collapse due to acute cardiac tamponade . the patient was stabilized using percutaneously instituted cardiopulmonary bypass support with subsequent repair of the left ventricle and successful mitral valve replacement . three months later this patient remains in new york heart class i. 
left main percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty with the autoperfusion catheter in an animal model . left main coronary angioplasty is associated with high risk because of interruption of blood flow to much of the left ventricle during balloon inflation . an " autoperfusion " balloon angioplasty catheter that allows blood to flow passively distal to an inflated balloon was tested in dogs and compared with inflations with standard balloon catheters . during 3 min occlusions of the left main coronary artery with the autoperfusion catheter , regional myocardial blood flow was preserved at 0.60 + / - 0.14 ml/min/g , compared with 0.07 + / - 0.03 ml/min/g during inflation with standard balloon catheters ( p less than 0.01 ) . similarly , at the end of 3 min of inflation , left ventricular systolic pressure and dp/dt were maintained with autoperfusion catheter inflation , but they were severely depressed after standard angioplasty balloon inflation . all seven dogs survived autoperfusion balloon inflation , whereas five of seven developed sustained ventricular tachycardia and/or ventricular fibrillation during or after standard balloon inflation . thus , distal blood flow , hemodynamics , and survival were preserved during autoperfusion balloon inflation in the left main coronary artery . 
a rapid , effective technique for retrograde crossing of valvular aortic stenosis using standard coronary catheters retrograde crossing of valvular aortic stenosis can be challenging even to experienced angiographers . in 446 of 447 consecutive patients with aortic stenosis catheterized during the past 3 years , a technique using a standard judkins right coronary catheter and a floppy straight tipped guide wire was successful in rapidly and efficiently crossing these pathologically distorted valves in retrograde fashion . once the valve was crossed , the coronary catheter was replaced with a pigtail catheter for pressure and ventriculography . the majority of these valves required less than 2 min to cross using this technique . this method is valuable in limiting the time required for catheterization , thus helping to reduce procedure related morbidity in these oftimes critically ill patients . 
acquired lutembacher syndrome or mitral stenosis and acquired atrial septal defect after transseptal mitral valvuloplasty . critical mitral stenosis in selected patients may be treated successfully with percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty . complications of this procedure , particularly an atrial septal defect following transseptal approach , are generally of minor clinical significance . we describe a woman who initially underwent a successful percutaneous double-balloon mitral valvuloplasty via the transseptal approach . three months later she presented with right-sided heart failure . color doppler echocardiography and cardiac catheterization demonstrated an atrial septal defect ( asd ) as well as restenosis of the mitral valve . we conclude that significant asds may occur following transseptal mitral valvuloplasty with appearance of right ventricular failure and that color doppler imaging aids in the diagnosis of this new variant of the classical lutembacher syndrome . 
nitrous oxide does not exacerbate pulmonary hypertension or ventricular dysfunction in patients with mitral valvular disease using the rapid-response thermistor pulmonary artery catheter and transoesophageal echocardiography , this study examined the effects of 100 per cent oxygen , 70 per cent nitrous oxide/30 per cent oxygen , and 70 per cent nitrogen/30 per cent oxygen on the pulmonary circulation and ventricular function in ten patients with pulmonary hypertension . in comparison with baseline measurements , nitrous oxide administration resulted in small but statistically significant ( p less than 0.05 ) changes in mean arterial pressure ( 76 + / - 14 to 67 + / - 12 ) , mean pulmonary arterial pressure ( 37 + / - 14 to 33 + / - 13 mmhg ) , and cardiac output ( 3.7 + / - 1.4 to 3.2 + / - 1.1 l.min-1 ) . seventy per cent nitrogen resulted in no significant changes from baseline . the repeat 100 per cent oxygen measurements were nearly identical to the nitrous oxide measurements . it is concluded that nitrous oxide does not exacerbate pulmonary hypertension or ventricular dysfunction during high-dose fentanyl anaesthesia in patients with mitral valvular disease . 
transoesophageal pacing for perioperative control of neonatal paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia . the perioperative management of a 16-day-old infant with recurrent supraventricular tachycardia ( svt ) is discussed . vagal manoeuvres and medication were not adequate in controlling the svt . since the patient was scheduled for extensive surgery in the prone position , it was decided to use transoesophageal pacing as the method of choice for conversion of svt . transoesophageal pacing succeeded several times in overriding the svt and restoring normal heart rate and haemodynamic variables . the advantages and disadvantages of various methods of treating svt in the newborn are discussed . 
epidural anaesthesia for labour and caesarean section in a parturient with a single ventricle and transposition of the great arteries . we describe a case of a 29-year-old parturient with a single ventricle and transposition of the great arteries who had lumbar epidural analgesia/anaesthesia with a local anaesthetic for labour , emergency caesarean section and postoperative pain . her outcome and that of her baby was successful . the anaesthetic techniques used in other parturients with similar congenital cardiac anomalies are reviewed . 
regulation of fibrillar collagen types i and iii and basement membrane type iv collagen gene expression in pressure overloaded rat myocardium . left ventricular hypertrophy is based on cardiac myocyte growth . the hypertrophic process can be considered heterogeneous based on whether it also includes a remodeling and accumulation of fibrillar types i and iii collagens that are responsible for impaired myocardial stiffness . in the heart , the messenger rna ( mrna ) for fibrillar collagen types i and iii has been detected only in cardiac fibroblasts , whereas mrna for basement membrane collagen type iv is present in both fibroblasts and myocytes . we studied the early and long-term expression of these collagenous proteins in rat myocardium after abdominal aortic banding with renal ischemia . complementary dna probes for rat pro-alpha 2 ( i ) , mouse type iii and mouse type iv collagens , and chicken beta-actin were used . northern and dot blot analysis on total rna extracted from left ventricular tissue indicated a sixfold increase in steady-state levels of mrna for collagen type i on day 3 of abdominal aortic banding , which had declined to control levels by day 7 where it remained rather constant at 4 and 8 weeks . type iii collagen showed a similar pattern of gene expression after banding . mrna levels for type iv collagen , on the other hand , were elevated on day 1 after banding , returning to control at day 7 and remaining constant . actin mrna levels also increased on day 1 of banding , followed by a rapid return to control levels . monospecific antibody to types i and iii collagens and immunofluorescent light microscopy on frozen sections of the myocardium revealed that at 1 week after banding , the distribution and density of these collagens were similar to those of control animals . 
increased ischemic injury but decreased hypoxic injury in hypertrophied rat hearts . the purpose of this study was to compare the degree of ischemic and hypoxic injury in normal versus hypertrophied rat hearts to investigate basic mechanisms responsible for irreversible myocardial ischemic injury . hearts from rats with bands placed on the aortic arch at 23 days of age ( band ) and sham-operated rats ( sham , 8 weeks postoperative ) were isolated , perfused with krebs buffer , and had a left ventricular balloon to measure developed pressure . hearts were made globally ischemic until they developed peak ischemic contracture and were reperfused for 30 minutes . additional hearts were perfused for 15 minutes with glucose-free hypoxic buffer followed by 20 minutes of oxygenated perfusion . there was an 87 % increase in heart weight of band compared with sham ( p less than 0.01 ) . during ischemia , lactate levels increased faster in band compared with sham , ischemic contracture occurred earlier in band than in sham despite no difference in atp levels , and postischemic recovery of left ventricular pressure was less in band ( 26.8 + / - 5.6 % of control left ventricular pressure , mean + / - sem ) compared with sham ( 40 + / - 4.6 % , p less than 0.05 ) . during hypoxic perfusion , lactate release was greater in band than in sham ( 48.8 + / - 1.2 versus 26.6 + / - 0.97 mumols/g , p less than 0.01 ) , and with reoxygenation , lactate dehydrogenase release was less in band than in sham ( 13.2 + / - 0.7 versus 19.5 + / - 0.2 iu/g , p less than 0.01 ) . after hypoxia and reoxygenation , left ventricular pressure recovery was greater in band than in sham ( 93 + / - 8.4 % versus 66 + / - 5.3 % , p less than 0.01 ) . thus , this study suggests that hypertrophied hearts have a greater potential for glycolytic metabolism , resulting in an increased rate of by-product accumulation during ischemia , which may be responsible for the increased susceptibility of hypertrophied hearts to ischemic injury . 
species-dependent effects of adenosine on heart rate and atrioventricular nodal conduction . mechanism and physiological implications . this study 1 ) compares the negative chronotropic and dromotropic actions of adenosine in guinea pig , rat , and rabbit hearts ; 2 ) investigates the mechanism ( s ) for the different responses ; and 3 ) determines the physiological implications . isolated perfused hearts were instrumented for measurement of atrial rate and atrioventricular ( av ) nodal conduction time . differences in metabolism of adenosine were determined in the absence and presence of dipyridamole ( nucleoside uptake blocker ) and erythro-9 - ( 2-hydroxy-3-nonyl ) adenine ( ehna , adenosine deaminase inhibitor ) . dipyridamole plus ehna decreased adenosine 's ec50 for the negative dromotropic effect by 14-fold in guinea pig heart and 1.6-fold in rat heart . this is consistent with the greater number of [ 3h ] nitrobenzylthioinosine binding sites measured in membranes from guinea pig ( 1,231 + / - 68 fmol/mg protein ) compared with rat ( 302 + / - 31 fmol/mg protein ) and rabbit ( 260 + / - 28 fmol/mg protein ) atria . the potency of adenosine to slow atrial rate and prolong av nodal conduction time was greater in guinea pig than in rat or rabbit hearts . this rank order of potency correlated well with the number of binding sites for the specific adenosine receptor radioligand 125i-aminobenzyladenosine in guinea pig ( 102 + / - 13 fmol/mg protein ) , rat ( 11 + / - 0.5 fmol/mg protein ) , and rabbit ( 8 + / - 1 fmol/mg protein ) atrial membranes . hypoxia increased the rate of adenosine release by severalfold and caused slowing of heart rate and av block . in spontaneously beating hearts , the main effect of hypoxia was a slowing of ventricular rate , which in the guinea pig heart was due to av block and in the rat heart to atrial slowing . in atrial paced hearts , hypoxia caused a marked prolongation of av nodal conduction time in guinea pig ( 39 + / - 4 msec ) and rabbit ( 29 + / - 5 msec ) hearts , but only small effect in rat hearts ( 10 + / - 2 msec ) . the differences in response to hypoxia could be accounted for by the species-dependent differences in the 1 ) amount of adenosine released and metabolized , 2 ) sensitivity of the hearts to adenosine , and 3 ) dependency of av nodal conduction on atrial rate . the findings indicate that the results from physiological or pharmacological studies on adenosine in one species may not be applicable to others , and the ultimate effect of adenosine and hypoxia is to slow ventricular rate . 
sepsis-related cardiogenic shock . to further define cardiovascular abnormalities in patients with septic shock , serial conventional hemodynamic measurements combined with two-dimensional echocardiographic studies were performed at the bedside in 21 patients admitted for an acute episode of sepsis-related circulatory failure . measurements obtained during the first hours of hospitalization revealed a group of six patients ( group 1 ) with markedly depressed left ventricular function , as evidenced by a low cardiac index ( ci ) ( 2.2 + / - 0.8 l/min . m2 ) , reduced left ventricular ejection fraction ( lvef ) ( 21 + / - 8 % ) , and an increased arterial-venous oxygen content difference . right ventricular systolic function was also severely depressed . these patients were characterized as having sepsis-related cardiogenic shock secondary to profound myocardial depression , which was reversible within 24 to 48 h with inotropic support . the 15 remaining patients ( group 2 ) exhibited an initially increased ci ( 4.9 + / - 1.8 l/min . m2 ) , with a low systemic vascular resistance . in group 2 , lvef remained within the normal range despite abnormally low peripheral vascular resistance . this finding would suggest the presence of slight to moderate depression of left ventricular systolic function . all patients in this series had a normal left ventricular end-diastolic volume , whether profound myocardial depression was present or not . 
use of a computerized closed-loop sodium nitroprusside titration system for antihypertensive treatment after open heart surgery . this study evaluates the clinical applicability of administering sodium nitroprusside by a closed-loop titration system compared with a manually adjusted system . the mean arterial pressure ( map ) was registered every 10 and 30 sec during the first 150 min after open heart surgery in 20 patients ( group 1 : computer regulation ) and in ten patients ( group 2 : manual regulation ) . the results ( 16,343 and 2,912 data points in groups 1 and 2 , respectively ) , were then analyzed in four time frames and five pressure ranges to indicate clinical efficacy . sixty percent of the measured map in both groups was within the desired + / - 10 % during the first 10 min . thereafter until the end of observation , the map was maintained within + / - 10 % of the desired set-point 90 % of the time in group 1 vs. 60 % of the time in group 2 . one percent and 11 % of data points were + / - 20 % from the set-point in groups 1 and 2 , respectively ( p less than .05 , chi-square test ) . the computer-assisted therapy provided better control of map , was safe to use , and helped to reduce nursing demands . 
hemodynamic and metabolic effects of dobutamine in 18 patients after open heart surgery . low cardiac output syndrome frequently follows cardiopulmonary bypass ( cpb ) surgery . in the present study , we used dobutamine to increase cardiac index ( ci ) and oxygen delivery ( do2 ) in 18 patients after open heart surgery . using increasing doses of dobutamine up to 10 micrograms/kg . min-1 , we observed statistically significant ( p less than .01 ) increases in mean ci ( 2.50 + / - 0.10 to 3.56 + / - 0.18 l/min . m2 ) and in mean heart rate ( hr ) ( 83 + / - 3 to 105 + / - 3 beat/min ) . mean systemic vascular resistance index decreased significantly ( p less than .01 ) in all patients ( 2271 + / - 101 to 1648 + / - 83 dyne.sec / cm5.m2 ) . pulmonary vascular resistance index did not change in the ten coronary artery bypass graft patients , but decreased significantly ( p less than .01 ) in the eight valve replacement patients ( 561 + / - 98 to 421 + / - 79 dyne.sec / cm5.m2 ) . mean do2 increased in all patients , although there was no concomitant increase in oxygen consumption ( vo2 ) in four patients . we observed a significant ( p less than .01 ) increase in mean vo2 in the remaining 14 patients ( 110 + / - 6 to 148 + / - 12 ml/min . m2 ) , in spite of significant decreases in pao2 and increases in right-to-left intrapulmonary shunting . although increases in hr and ventricular arrhythmias may limit its use , dobutamine increases ci and do2 in patients after cpb . in the present study , dobutamine 's varying metabolic effect exemplifies the need for close monitoring of hemodynamic and metabolic variables when using vasoactive drugs in the postoperative period . 
role of prostaglandin e1 in reducing pulmonary vascular resistance in an experimental model of acute lung injury . to determine the role and efficacy of prostaglandin e1 ( pge1 ) on the cardiopulmonary derangements induced by glass bead embolism , two studies were performed . in the first study , a dose response of pge1 was tested in six animals that were first embolized with sufficient glass beads to double the pulmonary artery pressure ( pap ) . this study demonstrated that pge1 reduced pap and cardiac output by a preload-mediated mechanism , as evidenced by a reduction in the right ventricular ( rv ) end-diastolic segment length , at doses of 15 and 30 ng/kg . min . the second study was performed in two groups of animals , the control group ( n = 6 ) , and the treated group ( n = 6 ) , which were given pge1 at 15 ng/kg . min after the pap had been doubled by glass bead embolism . rv preload was kept constant . this study demonstrated that there was no difference in pulmonary vascular resistance between either the treated group or the control group . there were no other significant differences between the two groups . the results of both of these studies suggest that there is little afterload reducing effect of pge1 in this model and at these dose ranges . part of the mechanism of pge1 that improves pulmonary edema and gas exchange may be the reduction of filtration surface area and hydrostatic pressures in the lungs . 
plasma epinephrine levels in resuscitation with cardiopulmonary bypass . since the highest plasma epinephrine levels have been recorded during resuscitation , we evaluated the isolated effect of cardiac arrest upon adrenomedullary secretion . we determined plasma epinephrine in dogs resuscitated with cardiopulmonary bypass ( cpb ) after cardiac arrest periods of 12 ( cpb-12 ; n = 4 ) or 16 min ( cpb-16 ; n = 5 ) . through 2 h of cpb and the following 6 h of critical care , there was no difference between cpb-12 and cpb-16 regarding most cardiopulmonary functional variables . plasma epinephrine was markedly elevated immediately after initiation of cpb ( p less than .01 at 1 min cpb vs. basal ) and returned rapidly to basal concentrations . comparison of plasma epinephrine levels between cpb and standard cpr groups showed that responses to cardiac arrest were similar ( p greater than .05 at 1 min cpb vs. 11.5 min cpr ) . we conclude that cardiac arrest is the main or sole determinant of the plasma epinephrine elevation of resuscitation . 
effect of hemodilution on capillary and arteriolovenous shunt flow in organs after cardiac arrest in dogs . the purpose of this study was to observe the changes in capillary and arteriolovenous shunting blood flow after cardiac arrest and subsequent resuscitation by venous return occlusion produced by inflation of an intra-atrial balloon and cross-clamping of the ascending aorta , and to determine how hemodilution might modify such changes . organ capillary blood flow and the fractional distribution of cardiac output were measured by the microsphere ( 9-microns diameter ) trapping method in dogs . simultaneously , the arteriolovenous shunt rate was measured by continuous collection of venous blood drained at 4.8 ml.min-1 for 2 min from the brain , kidney , liver , splanchnic organs , skeletal muscle of the pelvic limb , and all of the systemic circulatory organs . the capillary blood flow of the brain , thyroid gland , pancreas , and stomach decreased after circulatory arrest in five nonhemodiluted dogs ( group c ) ; arteriolovenous shunt rate was unchanged after circulatory arrest in this group . however , with hemodilution , which was induced either before ( pre group , n = 5 ) or after ( post group , n = 5 ) circulatory arrest , no change occurred in the shunt rate in any of the organs , with the exception of an increase in the systemic arteriolovenous shunt rate in the pre group . capillary blood flow was maintained at almost the same level as before circulatory arrest in the pre group , but increased significantly in several organs of the post group . the data indicated that hemodilution might be effective for prevention of organ ischemia after cardiac arrest . 
noninvasive determination of pulmonary artery wedge pressure : comparative analysis of pulsed doppler echocardiography and right heart catheterization . to compare left ventricular filling variables as derived by transmitral pulsed doppler echocardiography ( tpde ) and hemodynamic variables as assessed at right heart catheterization ( rhc ) , 104 icu patients ( 64 male , 40 female ) aged 26 to 73 yr ( mean 54.6 + / - 10.3 ) without valvular heart disease were examined . simultaneously with rhc , transmitral flow velocity profiles were obtained by tpde , and the ratio of the velocity-time integrals of late diastolic active ( a wave ) and early diastolic passive inflow into the left ventricle ( e wave ) was calculated ( a/e ratio ) . invasively determined pulmonary capillary wedge pressure ( wp ) ranged from 3 to 36 mm hg ( median 13.35 , 5 % / 95 % 6/31 mm hg ) . linear regression analysis showed a highly significant correlation between the a/e ratio and wp ( r = .98 , p less than .001 , standard error of the estimate [ see ] = 0.10 ) . the a/e ratio also correlated with other hemodynamic variables such as cardiac output ( r = -.68 , p less than .001 , see = 0.33 ) , cardiac index ( r = -.74 , p less than .001 , see = 0.31 ) , and stroke volume index ( r = -.68 , p less than .001 , see = 0.34 ) . the interobserver agreement ( derived by intraclass correlation analysis between two examiners ) on the a/e ratio was high ( r = .95 , p less than .001 , n = 26 ) . we conclude that wp can be accurately determined noninvasively by tpde . for the assessment of systolic ventricular function , tpde is of limited diagnostic value . 
intrapericardial extralobar pulmonary sequestration in a neonate . a huge pericardial effusion was diagnosed during fetal ultrasound examination performed in the 42nd week of pregnancy on a healthy 25-year-old woman . immediately after the birth , a two-dimensional echocardiogram confirmed this finding in the infant , and an intrapericardial kidney-shaped solid mass measuring 45 x 56 x 15 mm , completely surrounded by pericardial effusion , was visualized to the left part of the heart . the heart was normal . no signs of cardiac tamponade were seen . at the age of two days , the mass was surgically resected and the pericardial fluid evacuated . microscopic examination revealed that the mass was formed totally of normal lung tissue surrounded by normal pleura . to the best of our knowledge , this is the first case of intrapericardial extralobar sequestration consisting of an accessory lung with completely normal lung tissue . 
traumatic rupture of aorta . diagnosis by doppler echocardiography . traumatic rupture of aorta is a serious complication in accidents , mainly road accidents , with a high mortality unless an immediate diagnosis and surgical correction is made . a case of traumatic rupture of the aorta shown in the acute phase by doppler-echocardiography is reported . this technique can be of great value in the study of patients with thoracic trauma who do not show clear signs of aortic rupture which require urgent aortography . 
transient mitral regurgitation due to mitral valve prolapse accompanied by systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve . a grade 4/6 systolic murmur , systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve ( sam ) , and severe mitral regurgitation ( mr ) documented by two-dimensional doppler echocardiography developed suddenly on the structurally normal heart of a patient with idiopathic portal hypertension . the patient did not have signs of congestive heart failure and the aforementioned phenomenon disappeared completely when the patient was in hepatic failure . this could be explained by a change in circulating blood volume either by gastrointestinal hemorrhage or hepatic failure . 
orthostatic hypotension following right ventricular myocardial infarction corrected with mineralocorticoid therapy . severe hypotension while standing became a problem in a patient after discharge from the hospital following right ventricular myocardial infarction . hemodynamic studies showed that right ventricular systolic function did not maintain adequate left ventricular preload and that the patient did not compensate for cardiac dysfunction by increasing blood volume . volume expansion by mineralocorticoid therapy corrected the orthostatic hypotension and ameliorated symptoms . hypotension eventually resolved and therapy was stopped four months after the myocardial infarction . 
florid pulmonary veno-occlusive disease . a young woman presented with rapidly progressive dyspnea and clinical findings strongly suggestive of primary pulmonary hypertension or possible pulmonary embolism ( or both ) . she died of acute right-sided heart failure . a diagnosis of pulmonary veno-occlusive disease was made at autopsy . approximately 100 cases of this disease have been reported previously in the literature . we describe a patient with a particularly florid progression of this unusual disease . death occurred within six weeks of the onset of symptoms . 
pathologic involvement of the left ventricle in chronic cor pulmonale . to determine whether or not the left ventricle is pathologically involved in patients with chronic cor pulmonale , right and left ventricular weights , wall thickness , myocyte diameters , and percentage of fibrosis in 18 autopsied hearts were examined in patients with chronic pulmonary disease ( cpd ) ; ten had right ventricular hypertrophy on their electrocardiograms , and eight were without right ventricular hypertrophy . five with extracardiopulmonary disease were used as controls . the weight of the right ventricle was significantly increased in cpd when compared to control subjects . walls of both ventricles were significantly thicker in cpd . myocyte diameters of both ventricles were significantly greater in cpd . the percentage of fibrosis in the right ventricle was significantly greater in cpd . the percentage of fibrosis in the left ventricle was significantly greater only in patients with right ventricular hypertrophy . we concluded that the left ventricle was also involved pathologically in patients with chronic cor pulmonale in the end stage of the disease . 
esophageal contribution to chest pain in patients with coronary artery disease . we conducted a prospective study to determine the role of the esophagus in causing chest pain in patients with established cad on optimum therapy . thirty-two men with documented cad who complained of frequent and usually daily retrosternal chest pain were evaluated . following a standard esophageal manometry and acid perfusion test , simultaneous two-channel ambulatory holter monitor and esophageal ph record tests were performed for 24 hours . fifty-three episodes of chest pain were documented in 20 patients ; 11 patients were free of pain . of the 20 patients who complained of chest pains , 17 ( 85 percent ) demonstrated at least one episode of ppr , defined as a drop in distal esophageal ph to less than 4 within ten minutes before or after the onset chest pain . episodes of asymptomatic ger were common . the correlation of ppr with chest pain was 70 percent ( 37/53 episodes ) and of ischemic ecg changes with chest pain 13 percent ( 7/53 ) ; in the remaining , there was no correlation with either . two patients demonstrated simultaneous ppr and ischemic ecg changes . seventeen esophageal motility abnormalities were observed in 14 patients ( 45 percent ) . it is our conclusion that esophageal disorders contribute to chest pain in patients with documented cad . in this group , ger plays a greater role than in those with normal coronary arteries . in addition , esophageal motility disorders are common in these patients . esophageal testing can be undertaken safely in these patients . 
ventilatory and diffusion abnormalities in potential heart transplant recipients . few data are available concerning pulmonary function in patients with severe chronic congestive heart failure . of 315 patients evaluated for potential cardiac transplantation at ucla , 132 underwent pulmonary function tests . the latter patients had severe heart failure with a mean left ventricular ejection fraction of 19 percent and mean cardiac index of 2.1 l/min/m2 . diffusion impairment either alone or combined with restrictive and/or obstructive ventilatory defects occurred in 67 percent of the patients evaluated . diffusion impairment occurred as the sole abnormality in 31 percent of the patients and in combination with a restrictive ventilatory defect in 21 percent . a reduction in diffusing capacity has not been previously described as a frequent finding in patients with chronic congestive heart failure . in contrast to other studies involving patients with acute heart failure , obstructive ventilatory defects were uncommon . none of the lung function abnormalities was associated with smoking status , prior drug use , chest roentgenographic changes , hemodynamic findings , or clinical features , including duration of congestive heart failure . the mechanism for the diffusion impairment is unclear but could be due to chronic passive congestion with pulmonary fibrosis and/or recurrent pulmonary emboli . recognition of diffusion impairment as a common finding in patients with severe chronic congestive heart failure who are candidates for heart transplantation is important for proper interpretation of possible post-transplant changes in diffusing capacity due to other causes . 
differential therapy with calcium antagonists in pulmonary hypertension secondary to copd . hemodynamic effects of nifedipine , diltiazem , and verapamil . in 53 patients with copd and precapillary pulmonary hypertension , we investigated the effect of three typical calcium antagonists on hemodynamics at rest and during bicycle ergometer exercise . in the responders , the decrease in pulmonary vascular resistance following nifedipine was 23 percent at rest ( p less than 0.0005 ) and 35 percent during exercise ( p less than 0.0005 ) ; following diltiazem , it was 10 percent at rest ( p less than 0.05 ) and 23 percent during exercise ( p less than 0.025 ) ; following verapamil , it was 22 percent at rest ( p less than 0.005 ) and 11 percent during exercise ( p less than 0.025 ) . the cardiac index rose significantly at rest and under exercise only after the administration of nifedipine ( +16 percent and +8 percent , resp ) . nifedipine caused the most distinctive peripheral vasodilation . the heart rate increased slightly following nifedipine and decreased slightly following diltiazem and verapamil . after long-term therapy with nifedipine ( 13 + / - 5 months ) , the decrease in pulmonary artery pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance was no longer significant . in our opinion , the different hemodynamic action profiles will have consequences for the differential therapy in patients with copd and pulmonary hypertension . 
severe aortic regurgitation as a late complication of temporal arteritis . two patients with a remote history of pathologically documented giant cell arteritis developed severe regurgitation . the first patient developed severe aortic regurgitation five years after the pathologic documentation of giant cell arteritis of the temporal arteries . giant cell arteritis involvement of the aortic root was confirmed . the second patient developed aortic regurgitation seven years after pathologic documentation of giant cell arteries of the temporal arteries . although pathologic confirmation of the aortic root process was not obtained , this case strengthens the clinical association between giant cell arteritis of the temporal arteries and subsequent aortic root dilatation and severe aortic regurgitation . observation for signs of de novo severe aortic regurgitation is indicated in follow-up of patients with temporal arteritis . 
lack of cutaneous hyperemia in response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia in iddm . cutaneous blood flow was measured with the laser doppler technique and by recording cutaneous o2 tension on the forearm and forehead in nine young adult patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) and nine sex - and age-matched healthy control subjects after induction of hypoglycemia . in the healthy subjects , cutaneous blood flow measured with the laser doppler technique was increased by 120 + / - 26 % in the forehead ( p less than 0.01 ) and 196 + / - 50 % in the forearm ( p less than 0.01 ) at the glucose nadir ( blood glucose 1.8 + / - 0.2 mm ) compared with basal blood flow . in contrast , in diabetic patients , cutaneous blood flow was unchanged . the corresponding changes , at the glucose nadir , with cutaneous o2 tension recordings were 286 + / - 131 % ( p less than 0.05 ) in control subjects and -22 + / - 15 % ( ns ) in diabetic patients . an impairment of sympathetic nervous function , not detectable by simple cardiovascular tests , could be responsible for the lack of cutaneous hyperemia and sweating and could contribute to unawareness of hypoglycemia in diabetic patients . 
effects of fish oil supplements in niddm subjects . controlled study . the aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of a fish oil preparation ( maxepa ) on hemostatic function and fasting lipid and glucose levels in non-insulin-dependent diabetic ( niddm ) subjects . eighty niddm outpatients aged 55.9 yr ( mean sd 11.5 yr ) participated in a prospective double-blind placebo-controlled study of maxepa capsules ( 10 g/day ) or olive oil ( control ) treatment over 6 wk . patients received either maxepa or olive oil in addition to preexisting therapy . metabolic and hemostatic variables were measured before treatment and after 3 and 6 wk . platelet membrane eicosapentaenoic acid ( epa ) content increased in the treatment group ( p less than 0.001 ) . maxepa supplementation was associated with a significant fall in total triglycerides ( p less than 0.001 ) but did not affect total cholesterol ( p = 0.7 ) compared with control treatment . fasting plasma glucose increased after 3 wk ( p = 0.01 ) but not after 6 wk ( p = 0.17 ) treatment with maxepa . spontaneous platelet aggregation in whole blood fell in the maxepa group ( p less than 0.02 ) after 6 wk , but there were no changes in agonist-induced platelet aggregation , thromboxane generation in platelet-rich plasma , or plasma beta-thromboglobulin and platelet factor iv levels . an increase in clotting factor vii ( p = 0.02 ) , without changes in fibrinogen or factor x levels , occurred in the maxepa group . similar reductions in blood pressure were observed in both groups . dietary supplementation with maxepa capsules ( 10 g/day ) in niddm subjects is associated with improvement in hypertriglyceridemia but with deleterious effects in factor vii and blood glucose levels . most indices of platelet function are unaffected by this therapy . 
oral contraceptives in women with diabetes . we evaluated the association of oral contraceptive use with the presence and severity of diabetic retinopathy , hypertension , and glycosylated hemoglobin in women of childbearing age who have diabetes . neither current or past use nor number of years of use of oral contraceptives was associated with severity of retinopathy , hypertension , or current glycosylated hemoglobin . in conclusion , further study of various birth control methods in young women of childbearing age should be considered . 
effect of cyclosporin on generalized shwartzman reaction in diabetic rats . the effect of cyclosporin ( csa ) on the endotoxin-induced generalized shwartzman reaction ( gsr ) was studied in diabetic and nondiabetic rats . after 4.5 wk of diabetes , csa ( 20 mg/kg ) or intralipid as a control substance was given intraperitoneally daily for 10 days . next , diabetic rats were given either high-dose ( 2 mg/kg or low-dose ( 0.1 mg/kg ) endotoxin ( escherichia coli 026 : b6 lipopolysaccharide b ) as a single injection . the rats were killed at intervals of 1 , 4 , 8 , and 24 h. no significant glomerular thrombi were seen in the nondiabetic control animals , whereas the severity of glomerular thrombi in the diabetic animals was dependent on the presence or absence of csa , endotoxin dose , and degree of glycemic control . in the diabetic rats , glomerular thrombi occurred maximally at 4 h but were no longer present at 24 h. the csa/high-dose-endotoxin rats had fewer glomerular thrombi than rats receiving the intralipid/high-dose endotoxin , but this difference was not statistically significant . the csa/low-dose-endotoxin rats had increased glomerular thrombi compared with the intralipid/low-dose-endotoxin rats ( p less than 0.01 ) . insulin treatment reduced the glomerular capillary thrombi in the csa/low-dose-endotoxin diabetic animals . thus , csa aggravates the gsr with low-dose endotoxin but has no significant effect when high-dose endotoxin is given . improved glycemic control reduces the gsr in csa-treated rats . thus , the interrelationships of diabetes , endotoxin , and csa on the gsr are complex , and the pathogenesis of these events is unclear . 
role of leukotriene b4 in granulocyte infiltration into the postischemic feline intestine . several studies have demonstrated that granulocytes accumulate in the intestinal mucosa following ischemia/reperfusion . it has been suggested that leukotriene b4 may be released during ischemia/reperfusion and consequently may promote granulocyte infiltration into the mucosa . the objectives of this study were to determine whether ( a ) leukotriene b4 is produced in the gut mucosa during ischemia and reperfusion , and ( b ) inhibition of leukotriene b4 attenuates granulocyte infiltration into the postischemic intestinal mucosa . isolated segments of cat intestine were subjected to 3 hours of ischemia and 1 hour of reperfusion . mucosal samples were obtained during baseline , ischemia at 3 hours and reperfusion at 1 hour . leukotriene b4 production was determined by radioimmunoassay . tissue-associated myeloperoxidase activity was used to quantitate granulocyte accumulation in the mucosal samples . in untreated animals , mucosal leukotriene b4 concentration was higher at reperfusion compared with baseline levels . the reperfusion-induced increase in mucosal leukotriene b4 was entirely prevented by pretreatment with either nordihydroguaiaretic acid ( sigma chemical co. , st. louis , mo ) or l663 ,536 ( merck-frosst , montreal , quebec , canada ) , two potent lipoxygenase inhibitors . both lipoxygenase inhibitors , as well as leukotriene b4 antagonist ( sc-41930 ) significantly attenuated the reperfusion-induced infiltration of granulocytes . these results indicate that leukotriene b4 plays an important role in mediating the granulocyte accumulation elicited by reperfusion of the ischemic bowel . 
caliber-persistent artery of the stomach ( dieulafoy 's vascular malformation ) . caliber-persistent artery of the stomach ( also known as cirsoid aneurysm , dieulafoy 's lesion , and submucosal arterial malformation ) is clinically manifested as recurrent , massive , often fatal hematemesis . the lesion often is not seen endoscopically . left gastric angiography in one patient with hematemesis showed a convoluted and ectatic artery in the gastric fundus , which proved to be caliber-persistent artery of the stomach on pathological examination . the tortuosity of the abnormal vessel in this condition has been attributed to artefactual contraction of the stomach following excision and formalin fixation . this is the first reported case in which a pathologically proven lesion has been clearly visualized by angiography . this demonstrates that the submucosal vessel is truly and not artifactually sinuous . it is proposed that angiographic demonstration of a nontapering , convoluted artery in the territory of the left gastric artery is highly suggestive of caliber-persistent artery of the stomach . 
push-enteroscopy for diagnosis of patients with gastrointestinal bleeding of obscure origin . push-enteroscopy using a disinfected colonoscope was performed on 39 patients with gastrointestinal bleeding of obscure origin . our results show that : ( 1 ) a high percentage of patients ( 38 % ) have pathological lesions responsible for bleeding located in the distal duodenum and proximal jejunum , which are readily detected by push-enteroscopy . ( 2 ) duodeno-jejunal arteriovenous malformations ( avms ) are the most common cause for bleeding , and these lesions can be conveniently cauterized through the endoscope . ( 3 ) an efficient sequence of steps for diagnosis of patients with this problem includes push-enteroscopy when the initial egd and colonoscopy are normal followed by small bowel radiography . mesenteric angiography and intraoperative enteroscopy can be reserved for patients with severe bleeding when push-enteroscopy and small bowel radiography are negative . we conclude that push-enteroscopy has an important role to play in the early assessment of patients with gastrointestinal bleeding of obscure origin . 
endothelium-derived relaxing factors . a perspective from in vivo data . we review below published studies of endothelium-dependent vasodilation in vivo . endothelium-dependent vasodilation has been demonstrated in conduit arteries in vivo and in the cerebral , coronary , mesenteric , and femoral vascular beds as well as in the microcirculation of the brain and the microcirculation of cremaster muscle . the available evidence , although not complete , strongly suggests that the endothelium-derived relaxing factor generated by acetylcholine in the cerebral microcirculation is a nitrosothiol . the endothelium-derived relaxing factor generated by bradykinin in this vascular bed is an oxygen radical generated in association with enhanced arachidonate metabolism via cyclooxygenase . in the microcirculation of skeletal muscle , on the other hand , the vasodilation from bradykinin is mediated partly by prostacyclin and partly by an endothelium-derived relaxing factor similar to that generated by acetylcholine . basal secretion of endothelium-derived relaxing factor is controversial in vivo but is usually present in vitro . on the other hand , it appears that endothelium-derived relaxing factor mediates flow-dependent vasodilation in both large vessels and in the microcirculation in vivo . the generation and release of endothelium-derived relaxing factor from endothelium may be abnormal in a variety of conditions including acute and chronic hypertension , atherosclerosis , and ischemia followed by reperfusion . several mechanisms for these abnormalities have been identified . these include inability to generate endothelium-derived relaxing factor or destruction of endothelium-derived relaxing factor by oxidants after its release in the extracellular space . these abnormalities in endothelium-dependent relaxation may contribute to the vascular abnormalities in these conditions . 
time course of hemodynamic responses to sodium in elderly hypertensive patients . thirty-one patients with essential hypertension ( 81.6 + / - 6.9 years old ) were studied during two different regimens of sodium intake : 120 meq/day for 8 weeks and 344 meq/day for 2 weeks . systemic hemodynamic data were measured with doppler echocardiography from which the mitral flow velocity integral , cardiac index , and total peripheral resistance were calculated . the salt-sensitive patients in whom the increase in total peripheral resistance was greater than the increase in cardiac index with salt loading were termed sst . in the salt-sensitive patients termed ssc , the increase in cardiac index was greater than the increase in total peripheral resistance with increased sodium intake . all sst patients on day 7 of the high sodium diet remained in the sst group on day 14 . nine of 13 patients in the ssc group on day 7 remained in the ssc group on day 14 , and the remaining four patients in the ssc group on day 7 fell into the sst group on day 14 . four of eight non-salt-sensitive ( nss ) patients on day 7 of the high salt regimen remained in the nss group on day 14 , whereas the remaining four patients in the nss group on day 7 fell into the ssc group on day 14 . our data suggest a changing pattern with sodium loading of initially high cardiac index followed by a persistently raised total peripheral resistance . the celiac , superior mesenteric , and renal arteries vasoconstricted with sodium repletion in both sst and ssc patients . with salt loading , the terminal aortic vascular bed vasodilated in the ssc patients and vasoconstricted in the sst patients . 
two-way factorial study of alcohol and salt restriction in treated hypertensive men . the aim of this study was to determine whether moderate restriction of dietary salt intake leads to an additional fall in blood pressure in treated hypertensive men who are asked to simultaneously reduce their usual alcohol intake . sixty-three subjects entered an initial 2-week familiarization period during which they continued their usual alcohol intake and commenced a " low sodium " diet ( less than 60 mmol/day ) supplemented with 100 mmol sodium chloride per day as enteric-coated tablets . subjects were then randomly assigned to either drink a low alcohol beer alone for a 4-week period ( reducing their self-reported alcohol consumption from 537 to 57 ml/week ) or to continue their usual alcohol intake ( 543 versus 557 ml/week ) . within the low and normal alcohol intake groups , subjects were assigned to either a low or normal sodium intake . the low sodium groups continued the sodium-restricted diet but were switched to placebo sodium chloride tablets for the 4 weeks . this resulted in a fall in the 24-hour urinary sodium excretion from 144 to 69 mmol/day . the normal sodium groups continued the low sodium diet but kept taking 100 mmol/day of the sodium chloride tablets , and their urinary sodium excretion remained unchanged ( 125 versus 142 mmol/day ) . regular antihypertensive therapy was continued throughout . fifty-nine subjects completed the trial . in those who reduced their alcohol intake there was a fall in both systolic blood pressure ( -5.4 mm hg supine , p less than 0.01 ) and diastolic blood pressure ( -3.2 mm hg supine , p less than 0.01 ) . 
diurnal cardiovascular patterns in spontaneously hypertensive and wistar-kyoto rats . this study was designed to determine whether diurnal patterns of blood pressure , heart rate , or locomotor activity differed among two substrains of wistar-kyoto rats , derived originally from charles river or taconic farms stock , or the spontaneously hypertensive rat . cardiovascular parameters were continuously monitored over 24 hours . resting systolic and diastolic blood pressure values were statistically different among the three groups both during the lights-on ( rest ) and lights-off ( active ) phases of the cycle with blood pressure of spontaneously hypertensive rats greater than that of wistar-kyoto rats from taconic farms , which was greater than that of wistar-kyoto rats from charles river . the largest difference in arterial pressure between wistar-kyoto/taconic farms and wistar-kyoto/charles river was during the lights-on period . heart rates of all rats decreased during the lights-on period ; wistar-kyoto/charles river had the largest decrease ( -70 + / - 5 beats/min ) , wistar-kyoto/taconic farms had the least ( -17 + / - 2 beats/min ) , and in spontaneously hypertensive rats the decrease was intermediate ( -29 + / - 3 beats/min ) . the pronounced diurnal variation in pressure and heart rate exhibited by wistar-kyoto/charles river was not present in either wistar-kyoto/taconic farms or spontaneously hypertensive rats . blood pressure magnitude correlated with locomotor activity during both periods , although all groups showed minimal activity during the rest period . observed differences between wistar-kyoto/charles river and wistar-kyoto/taconic farms were not due to a lack of or an abnormality in baroreceptor reflex function . 
a kallikrein-like enzyme in blood vessels of one-kidney , one clip hypertensive rats . active and inactive kallikrein or a kallikrein-like enzyme are found in the aorta , vena cava , and tail artery and veins of the rat . we studied the concentration of vascular kininogenase in rats with one-kidney , one clip renovascular hypertension and in unilaterally nephrectomized normotensive rats . six weeks after surgery , active and total vascular kininogenase activity ( active plus trypsin-activated ) was measured . blood pressure was 212 + / - 4 mm hg in the hypertensive rats ( n = 33 ) and 120 + / - 1 mm hg in the normotensive rats ( n = 32 ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . active kininogenase was lower in the hypertensive rats ; although the difference was not significant in the thoracic aorta ( 56 + / - 8 versus 77 + / - 15 ) , it was highly significant in the abdominal aorta ( 63 + / - 13 versus 167 + / - 17 , p less than 0.001 ) and tail artery ( 48 + / - 8 versus 197 + / - 31 , p less than 0.003 ) . total vascular kininogenase activity ( active plus trypsin-activated ) was lower in the hypertensive rats in all arteries examined : thoracic aorta ( 183 + / - 16 versus 380 + / - 38 , p less than 0.003 ) , abdominal aorta ( 565 + / - 61 versus 1,093 + / - 74 , p less than 0.001 ) , and tail artery ( 532 + / - 112 versus 1,243 + / - 135 , p less than 0.003 ) . active kininogenase in the vena cava was higher in the hypertensive rats ( 213 + / - 56 versus 131 + / - 31 ) ; however , this difference was not statistically significant , whereas in the tail veins it was highly significant ( 1,803 + / - 221 versus 771 + / - 79 , p less than 0.003 ) . 
comparison of converting enzyme inhibitor and calcium channel blocker in hypertensive glomerular injury . the protective effect of converting enzyme inhibitors in experimental hypertensive glomerular injury is associated with decreased systemic arterial and glomerular capillary pressure . although calcium channel blockers effectively lower systemic blood pressure , their effect on glomerular capillary pressure and on hypertensive glomerular injury is uncertain . we compared equihypotensive treatment with the calcium antagonist ta 3090 or the converting enzyme inhibitor captopril in post-salt hypertensive dahl salt-sensitive ( ds ) rats for up to 5 weeks after five sixths nephrectomy . before the nephrectomy , all rats demonstrated hypertension ( mean 177 mm hg ) , proteinuria ( mean 175 mg/day ) , and mild glomerulosclerosis ( mean injury score 35 ) . rats treated with captopril or ta 3090 demonstrated a significant and equivalent decrease in systolic blood pressure compared with untreated rats at 2 , 3 , and 5 weeks after five sixths nephrectomy ; however , only captopril reduced proteinuria . final proteinuria was actually increased in rats treated with ta 3090 compared with untreated rats . glomerular injury score was significantly decreased in captopril-treated compared with untreated rats at 2 weeks ( 33 + / - 9 versus 117 + / - 10 , p less than 0.05 ) and 5 weeks ( 46 + / - 9 versus 94 + / - 24 , p less than 0.05 ) , whereas treatment with ta 3090 delayed but did not prevent progressive glomerular injury ( 2-week score 35 + / - 7 , p less than 0.05 versus untreated ; 5-week score 109 + / - 19 , p = ns versus untreated ) . thus , in hypertensive ds rats after subtotal nephrectomy , treatment with a converting enzyme inhibitor reduced systemic blood pressure , proteinuria , and glomerulosclerosis . however , equihypotensive treatment with a calcium channel blocker did not reduce proteinuria and delayed but did not prevent glomerulosclerosis . thus , in the rat similar reductions in systemic blood pressure with these two classes of agents have disparate effects on the progression of chronic renal failure . 
interleukin-2 does not attenuate hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats . it was recently reported that interleukin-2 , when administered as a single bolus injection ( 5,000 units/kg ) , could prevent the development of hypertension in young spontaneously hypertensive rats and lower blood pressure to normotensive levels in spontaneously hypertensive rats with established hypertension . consequently , efforts were made to duplicate this finding . male spontaneously hypertensive rats ( 35 days old ) were injected subcutaneously with 50,000 units/kg ( 3,500 units/rat ) of recombinant interleukin-2 ( amgen ) and had systolic blood pressure measured twice weekly by the tail-cuff technique . systolic blood pressure in the interleukin-2-treated group was not significantly different from the vehicle-treated control group at any time point over 32 days of follow-up . a second injection of recombinant interleukin-2 ( 5,000 units/kg ) was administered 32 days after the first injection . again , no reduction in blood pressure was observed in the interleukin-2-treated group over an additional 38 days . mean arterial pressure ( + / - sem ) measured via intra-arterial cannula in conscious rats at age 105 days ( 38 days after the second treatment ) was 168.5 + / - 3.5 mm hg in interleukin-2-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats and 170.3 + / - 3.6 mm hg in vehicle-treated controls . both recombinant interleukin-2 preparations conformed to their respective manufacturer 's indicated specific activity as determined by the ability of the interleukin-2 to induce proliferation of the interleukin-2-dependent cell line ht-2 . thus , this study demonstrated that interleukin-2 was ineffective in preventing or attenuating hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats . 
effects of differential touch on nervous system arousal of patients recovering from cardiac disease . previous research suggests that the neural properties of certain types of touch as well as their perceived significance to the disease state may be related to heightened activation of the nervous system . in this study the effects of different types of touch on nervous system arousal were examined in 59 adult patients who were receiving treatment for coronary artery disease . they were exposed to a standardized protocol that systematically varied the neural properties and procedural nature of the touch received . measures of cardiovascular reactivity ( heart rate and rhythm data as well as blood pressure measurements ) and state anxiety were used as indexes of arousal . the results indicated that all types of touch evoked heart rate deceleration in contrast to both baseline and verbal conditions . however , there were no differential effects related to either the neural properties or procedural nature of touch . diastolic blood pressure and state anxiety were also lower as a result of the touch . no changes were observed for systolic blood pressure or heart rhythm . in general , findings suggested that touch served to reduce arousal rather than to produce negative psychophysiologic consequences for recovery . 
torsade de pointes : a critical care nurse 's dilemma . torsade de pointes is a polymorphous ventricular tachycardia characterized by a gradual change in the direction of the qrs complex . because critical care nurses are the first to recognize arrhythmias , they require the knowledge and skill to intervene appropriately . this case report focuses on identification of the characteristics , contributing factors , therapeutic modalities , and relevant nursing diagnoses for the patient with torsade de pointes . 
role of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in congestive heart failure . conventional therapy for congestive heart failure ( chf ) includes sodium-restricted diet , diuretics , digitalis , vasodilators , and short-term intravenous administration of beta-adrenergic agonists during episodes of decompensation . a specific class of vasodilators , the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors , has recently gained predominance in the treatment of congestive heart failure . the primary mechanism of action is to reduce production of angiotensin ii by competitive inhibition of the enzyme that converts angiotensin i into angiotensin ii . reduced levels of angiotensin ii , in turn , promote vasodilation and lower aldosterone production . the benefits of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy in chronic congestive heart failure have been demonstrated by improvement in left ventricular performance , exercise capacity , functional status ( using new york heart association classification ) , and survival . 
mechanical cardiopulmonary support for refractory cardiogenic shock . from february 1982 to february 1990 , 38 patients ( 30 male patients and 8 female patients ) ranging in age from 10 to 78 years ( mean 49.4 years ) have been supported with arteriovenous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ecmo ) at st. louis university medical center as a resuscitative system for cardiac arrest or cardiogenic shock . all patients were unresponsive to conventional resuscitative measures including an intraaortic balloon pump in 25 patients . patients were resuscitated in the intensive care unit , cardiac catheterization laboratory , or the emergency department . diagnosis varied from acute myocardial infarctions ( 12 patients ) , ischemic disease ( 15 patients ) , end-stage cardiomyopathy ( 7 patients ) , congenital heart disease ( 3 patients ) , or postoperative cardiac transplant graft rejection ( 1 patient ) . three patients could not be resuscitated with ecmo because of low flow , but the remaining 35 ( 92 % ) achieved hemodynamic stability with ecmo flows greater than 2 l/min/m2 . duration of support ranged from 0.5 to 130 hours ( mean 28 hours ) . twenty-four patients were successfully weaned from ecmo support after coronary artery bypass ( five patients ) , cardiac transplantation ( two patients ) , or ventricular assist device insertion ( eight patients ) , or with inotropic support ( nine patients ) . of the 14 patients not weaned , three were inadequately resuscitated , two had percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty while receiving ecmo , and nine were not candidates for further intervention . nine ( 24 % ) patients were discharged and are long-term survivors . our results indicate that resuscitative ecmo is useful for intervals of 12 to 24 hours and can best be applied with ( 1 ) patients younger than 60 years of age ; ( 2 ) patients having acute events ( failed percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ) amenable to surgical intervention ; and ( 3 ) candidates for cardiac transplantation who could be switched to more sophisticated devices within 12 to 24 hours of ecmo insertion . with these criteria , ecmo , when used as a resuscitative system , can result in increased survival in selected patients with refractory cardiogenic shock or cardiac arrest . 
evaluating oxygen delivery and oxygen utilization with mixed venous oxygen saturation monitoring : a case study approach . three cases studies are presented to demonstrate clinical application of mixed venous oxygen saturation ( svo2 ) monitoring in critical care nursing practice . examples of critically ill patients are used to demonstrate how svo2 monitoring can be used in clinical practice to reflect an imbalance between oxygen delivery and oxygen utilization . in the first case , the patient had a problem with oxygen delivery . continuous svo2 data aided nurses in guiding , adjusting , and assessing therapy . the second case demonstrates how svo2 monitoring can provide an early sign of a life-threatening complication . the final case is one in which the patient had a problem with oxygen utilization . in all the cases , continuous svo2 data provided important information about the balance between oxygen delivery and oxygen utilization . 
the incidence of deep vein thrombosis after cementless and cemented knee replacement . the incidence of deep vein thrombosis in 244 patients who had total knee replacement has been studied . in 120 the prosthesis was cemented and in 124 it was cementless . in all cases the replacement was primary and a porous-coated prosthesis with a porous-coated central tibial stem was used . deep vein thrombosis was diagnosed by venography , and pulmonary embolism by perfusion scanning . the incidence of deep vein thrombosis in the cementless knees ( 23.8 % ) and in the cemented ( 25 % ) was approximately the same . the only significant predisposing factors for deep vein thrombosis in both groups were obesity , prolonged postoperative immobilisation , previous venous disease and hyperlipidaemia . 
reduction of post-traumatic swelling and compartment pressure by impulse compression of the foot . following the discovery of a powerful venous pump in the foot that is activated by weight-bearing independently of muscular action , a pneumatic impulse device was developed to actuate this pump artificially . in a multicentre international trial the device was shown to reduce post-traumatic and postoperative swelling ; pain also was alleviated . evidence is also presented that dangerously high compartment pressures may be reduced to acceptable levels and fasciotomy avoided . we present an explanation of the clinical effects of activation of the venous footpump , based on recent improved understanding of the physiology of the microcirculation . the hyperaemic response that follows the liberation of endothelial-derived relaxing factor ( edrf ) by sudden changes of pressure after weight-bearing or impulse compression is particularly important . 
ligation of the superficial femoral vein in prevention of pulmonary embolism : an old fashion procedure ? from 1974 to 1988 , interruption of the superficial femoral vein ( sfv ) was performed to prevent pulmonary embolism ( pe ) in 73 patients . the mean age of the patients was 62 years . phlebography showed thrombi in the following localizations : calf veins ( 67.3 % ) , superficial femoral or popliteal veins ( 56.6 % ) , common femoral veins ( 19.5 % ) and iliac veins ( 2.7 % ) . a floating thrombus in the popliteal or femoral vein was the main indication for surgery in 97.3 % of patients . pulmonary embolism had occurred in 76.7 % and was associated with neoplasm in 13.7 % . ligation of the sfv was performed in 93 limbs and completed iliac or femoral thrombectomy in 32.3 % . the procedure was performed under locoregional anesthesia in 82.9 % of the cases . hospital mortality was 1.4 % and 3 year survival , considering only pe related deaths was 95.3 + / - 2.7 % . follow-up was complete for all patients and averaged 3.0 years , for a 3 years pe-free rate of 90.8 + / - 3.6 % . persistent symptoms included increased limb tenseness in 12.5 % and mild ankle edema in 25 % . bilateral strain-gauge plethysmography ( sgp ) was obtained in 65 limbs . the time necessary to obtain a 50 , 75 and 100 % decrease in calf volume ( respectively t1/2 , t3/4 and tt ) was calculated for the operated limb and compared with the untreated limbs used as controls . a prolongation of t1/2 from 2.5 + / - 0.3 sec in controls to 4.3 + / - 0.4 sec in the operated limb ( p less than 0.01 ) was found . thus , our experience with ligation of the superficial femoral vein is favourable since long-term ill effects have been minimal and strain gauge plethysmography ( sgp ) showed only mildly altered venous drainage . 
the relationship of intraluminal shunting to technical results after carotid endarterectomy . this study evaluates the incidence of defects on the intraoperative angiograms of 160 carotid endarterectomies performed in 146 patients , 81 of 160 ( 50.6 % ) with a shunt and 79 of 160 operations ( 49.4 % ) performed without a shunt . angiographic defects were identified in 34 of 160 carotid endarterectomies ( 21 % ) , of which 21 of 34 ( 65 % ) resulted in a greater than 20 % stenosis of the internal carotid artery ( ica ) . there were defects in 6 of 81 ( 7.4 % ) shunted vessels compared to 16 of 79 ( 20 % ) of those not shunted ( p less than 0.05 ) . thirty-one vessels were reexplored 11 of 81 ( 13.5 % ) of those shunted and 20 of 79 ( 20 % ) of those not shunted ( p less than 0.05 ) . there were four strokes ( 2.5 % ) ( 2 in each group ) and one death due to myocardial infarction ( 0.6 % ) in the postoperative period . duplex follow-up from 1-60 months ( median 22 months ) was available in 114 of 160 ( 71 % ) endarterectomies . a stenosis of greater than 50 % was detected in 7 of 114 ( 6 % ) carotid arteries ; 5 of the 7 ( 71 % ) were shunted and 2 ( 29 % ) were nonshunted . unrepaired defects were present in 3 of 7 ( 43 % ) and no defects in the remaining 4 of 7 ( 57 % ) arteries . we conclude that the use of a shunt significantly decreases the number of ica defects detected angiographically and that immediate revision of demonstrable defects can be undertaken with low morbidity and does not predispose the patient to recurrent stenosis . 
long term follow-up of descending thoracic aorto-iliac/femoral bypass . a prospective study of 26 patients undergoing descending thoracic aorto-iliac/femoral ( dtai/f ) bypass was conducted over a 13-year period with an average follow up of 53 months . reasons for selecting the procedure were occluded aortic bifurcation grafts ( 9 patients ) , hostile abdomen ( 6 ) , infected aortic graft ( 1 ) , microaorta ( 10 , and surgeons preference in 8 patients who had juxtarenal aortic occlusion . the operative mortality was 3.8 % ( 1 patient ) . a late mortality of 36 % was due to myocardial infarction ( 1 ) , lung carcinoma ( 2 ) , renal failure ( 4 ) , stroke ( 1 ) and pulmonary insufficiency ( 1 ) . graft failure occurred in 4 patients at 23 , 26 , 54 and 109 months respectively . primary cumulative patency was 86 % statistically valid at 42 months . dtai/f bypass is recommended in selected patients when conventional approaches to the aorta are considered unduly hazardous . 
current results of elective aortic reconstruction for aneurysmal and occlusive disease . decisions to resect small aortic aneurysms or employ non-operative treatment for aorto-iliac occlusive disease must depend on current rather than historical surgical results . to assess current morbidity and mortality , we reviewed 200 consecutive aortic resections in two groups of patients treated from 1981 to 1989 : those undergoing elective aortofemoral bypass for occlusive disease ( afb , no . 100 ) or resection of infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms ( aaa , no . 100 ) . indications for afb included claudication ( 54 % ) , rest pain ( 32 % ) , and gangrene ( 13 % ) . aaa size ranged from 3 to 14 cm ( mean 6.5 + / - 2.4 cm ) ; 45 % presented with abdominal or back pain . patients undergoing afb were younger ( afb 61.5 + / - 10 years vs aaa 68.7 + / - 8.9 years ) with a higher incidence of some atherosclerotic risk factors , diabetes mellitus 30 % vs 10 % , tobacco use 77 % vs 49 % , hyperlipidemia 21 % vs 7 % ; p less than 0.001 ) . coronary artery disease ( cad ) was more prevalent in aaa patients ( 49 % vs 34 % ; p less than 0.001 ) . postoperative mortality was not different in occlusive or aneurysmal disease ( 3 % afb vs 2 % aaa ) , nor was the occurrence of serious complications such as myocardial infarction ( 2 % vs 1 % ) or pulmonary embolism ( 2 % vs 3 % ) . improvements in patient selection , perioperative care and surgical technique have lowered the mortality of elective aortic surgery . given the current standard of care , an aggressive approach to aaa even in high risk patients is appropriate . the low morbidity of afb for occlusive disease mandates a critical appraisal of less effective nonoperative therapies . 
combined epidural and general anesthesia in aortic surgery . the perioperative course of 144 consecutive patients undergoing aortic reconstructive surgery was studied to assess the potential benefit of employing a combined epidural and light general anesthesia technique . a group of 67 patients had general anesthesia alone ( ga ) , while in the group of 77 remaining patients , a combined epidural and general anesthesia ( epi-ga ) was employed . the two groups were similar in regards to age , medical risk factors , preoperative assessment of cardiac and pulmonary function , and type of surgical reconstruction . there was no significant difference in the anesthetic , operative time , or operative fluid requirements between the two groups . there was a lower rate pressure product in the epi-ga group during aortic cross clamping ( p less than 0.05 ) . more patients in the ga group required a prolonged ventilatory support ( p less than 0.05 ) and a high parenteral narcotic administration ( p less than 0.025 ) during the first 48 hours . while the mortality rate was similar for the two groups ( 3.0 % for ga group vs 5.2 % for epi-ga group ) , there was a higher percent of postoperative pulmonary complications observed in the ga group ( 7.6 % ) compared to the epi-ga group ( 2.6 % ) . by facilitating early extubation and a decreased need for systemic narcotics in the early postoperative period , epi-ga may be beneficial in the high risk pulmonary patient undergoing aortic reconstruction . 
synchronous reconstruction for combined aortoiliac and femoropopliteal occlusive lesions . the role of proximal bypass . between january 1984 and december 1986 , 31 patients underwent synchronous revascularization ( sr ) because of the serious clinical condition of a lower limb and presence of arteriographically visible lesions . average follow-up was 30 months . operative mortality was 10 % . two patient populations were identified : group i ( n = 13 ) : patients who underwent ilio-femoral or aorto-femoral proximal revascularization ( pr ) ; group ii ( n = 18 ) : patients who had axillo-femoral pr . group i patients were younger than those in group ii ( 64 yr versus 72 yr ; p less than 0.01 ) . an association of pre-operative risk factors ( arterial hypertension ; coronary , renal or respiratory insufficiency ) was twice as frequent in group ii as in group i ( p less than 0.02 ) . the rate of sr compared to pr alone was 15 % . however , there was no statistically significant difference between groups i and ii . comparison of the actuarial survival curves for patients ahd the patency rates of sr in groups i and ii failed to reveal any statistically significant differences . axillo-femoral bypass can be used for pr when sr is necessary in high risk patients . 
femoral noninfected anastomotic aneurysms . a report of 56 cases . fifty-six femoral non infected anastomotic false aneurysms ( faas ) were observed in 49 patients admitted to the institute of vascular surgery , university of milan , from 1975 to 1988 ; in 6 patients they were bilateral . these aneurysms developed after primary revascularization procedures at a mean interval of 66 months ( range 12 to 156 months ) ; one recurred after reparative surgery . forty-four faas ( 78.6 % ) were asymptomatic , whereas 3 ( 5.3 % ) were complicated by acute expansion and 9 ( 16.1 % ) by thrombosis . host vessel degeneration was the cause of aneurysm formation in most cases . a history of hypertension was present in 30 % of the patients . all anastomotic aneurysms were operated upon except for one small aneurysm that was asymptomatic . in 5 patients aneurysm resection was carried out on both sides . the surgical technique was endoaneurysmectomy in all the cases with insertion of an interposition graft in 48 cases , a fabric patch in 2 cases and prosthesis re-anastomosis in 5 cases . one case of peripheral embolization occurring in the early postoperative period was successfully treated and there was no operative mortality . in our opinion elective repair of these aneurysms should be recommended whenever possible because of their propensity to develop serious complications and the operative morbidity is low . 
the management of aneurysms and arterio-venous fistulae of the popliteal artery arising from war trauma . emphasis on sigmoid operative approach . between 1986-1988 , 600 vascular cases arising from the iran-iraq conflict were dealt with within an 18 month period and 60 cases of popliteal artery and/or venous disruption were encountered presenting at variable times after injury . a policy of management between the forward and base hospital surgical teams was introduced , observing the following broad categorizations : ( a ) assessment/referral , ( b ) assessment/fasciotomy/referral , ( c ) immediate operation/referral for further operation/review/management . two types of incision were used to enter the popliteal fossa : ( a ) a medial incision and ( b ) a sigmoid posterior incision ( which we now favor ) . the results of this strategy of management and operative technique ( when compared with our previous experience within the same time frame ) suggested an improved outcome . fifty-four out of 60 cases had a satisfactory operative result with below-knee amputation being required in only four cases and higher amputations in two others . no operative or postoperative deaths occurred . the implementation of this " vetting policy " at the front line appeared to reduce the number of amputations and assisted the clarification of management criteria in assessing limb viability at the forward hospital when a large number of casualties were being received . operative access using the sigmoid posterior incision was not associated with any complications , offered better exposure than the medial incision and was technically easier for the surgeon to perform . 
prosthetic above-knee femoropopliteal bypass for intermittent claudication . there is no consensus about the most appropriate management of the patient with intermittent claudication due to a superficial femoral artery occlusion . to evaluate the natural history of prosthetic above-knee femoropopliteal ( akfp ) bypass , 200 operations for intermittent claudication were reviewed . one hundred akfp bypasses were done with ptfe and 100 with dacron . in the 30 day postoperative period , four ptfe and three dacron grafts occluded without consequence and only one patient died . analysis of results by the life-table method demonstrated statistically similar primary graft patency rates at five years ( ptfe 65 % se + / - 6.5 , dacron 57 % + / - 6.2 ) and ten years ( ptfe 31 % + / - 18/9 , dacron 32 % + / - 13.2 ) ( p greater than 0.10 ) . redo procedures ( e.g. , thrombectomy , angioplasty ) were necessary on 21 grafts ( 12 ptfe , 9 dacron ) and " secondary " patency rates at five years were 76 % ptfe and 62 % dacron ; no grafts which required a redo procedure were patent at ten year follow-up . major amputations during ten year follow-up were necessary in 16 ( 8 % ) patients ; all amputations were in diabetic patients . survival rates were 79 % at five and 42 % at ten years . an anticipated , the leading cause of death was cardiac related ( 25 patients ) ; 28 ( 14 % ) patients underwent aortocoronary bypass during follow-up . a prosthetic akfp bypass graft is a safe and durable operation which provides relief from the symptoms of intermittent claudication while allowing for the preservation of the saphenous vein for use later in the coronary or infrapopliteal circulations , should the need arise . these results indicate that the risk of amputation after akfp is no greater than the natural history of untreated claudication ; however , akfp offers a significant improvement in life-style . 
unusual haemostasis for an unusual tumour . catastrophic bleeding from a tactile neurofibroma affecting the thoracic vertebrae . case report . the symptomatology of a typical acute descending thoracic aorta dissection was imitated by profuse haemorrhage caused by a benign tumour composed almost exclusively of wagner-meissner like tactile corpuscles and fatty tissue . the tumour caused extensive destruction of the bodies of the fifth and sixth thoracic vertebrae at the level of the vertebro-costal articulation . emergency cross clamping of the descending aorta and haemostasis of the bleeding from osteal defects by tamponade with bone polymethyl methacrylate appeared the only way to control the life threatening haemorrhage . it seems that an intrathoracic tactile neurofibroma with a similar case history has not been reported till now . 
spontaneous rupture of an aortic aneurysm into the left renal vein . a diagnostic challenge . rupture of an aortic aneurysm into a renal vein presents a rare and difficult diagnostic problem . often , therapy is delayed because the patient is thought to have a urologic problem . in this instance , ct scan provided useful clues leading to the diagnosis of this entity , and its rapid treatment . to our knowledge , this is the first ct scan done in a patient with aorto-renal vein fistula . 
plastic bullet arterial embolization following gunshot injury to the heart . case report and review of the literature . a plastic bullet penetrating the heart through the right ventricle embolized to the right profunda . suture of the heart and extraction of the bullet resulted in uneventful recovery . the literature revealed 21 instances of embolization following proven heart penetration , in two cases through the right ventricle . 
mechanical circulatory support as a bridge to transplantation : current status of total artificial heart in 1989 and determinants of survival . since april 1986 , 40 total artificial hearts ( tah ) were implanted as a bridge to transplantation in our institution . in an attempt to identify factors affecting survival of tah recipients we reviewed our experience over 1000 days of mechanical support . there was no postoperative bleeding requiring surgery nor were there any clinical episodes of thromboembolic complications . over a total functioning period greater than 3 years there were no mechanical failures in the driving system but one artificial ventricle had to be replaced because of mechanical dysfunction . infections and multiple organ failure were the primary causes of morbidity and mortality during mechanical support . when the patients who underwent staged transplantation ( no . 17 ) were compared with those who died during mechanical support ( no . 23 ) there were no differences in tah driving mode or hemodynamic variables between the groups . although preoperative pulmonary , hepatic and renal functions were found to be similar between the groups , there were significant differences in the early evolution ( 3 days ) of hepatic and renal functions following tah implant ( p less than 0.01 ) . urinary output was found to be the earliest variable discriminating recovery and survival ( p less than 0.01 ) . finally , univariate analysis indicated age ( less than 40 vs greater than 40 years ) and modality of cardiac decompensation ( acute vs chronic ) as the most important factors affecting survival after tah implantation . since young patients ( less than 40 years of age ) with acute decompensation were successfully transplanted in 82 % of cases while 100 % of older patients with chronic decompensation died before or after transplantation , tah should be advised in young patients with acute or chronic heart failure and in selected older candidates with recent , acute cardiac failure . 
clinical outcome of emergency repeat coronary artery bypass surgery . to determine the clinical outcome of patients requiring emergency repeat coronary artery bypass graft ( cabg ) procedures , we reviewed 23 such procedures performed for ongoing myocardial ischemia refractory to medical management . the operative mortality was 17 % . on follow-up , an average of 24.9 months after emergency reoperation , 14 of the 19 survivors ( 74 % ) had recurrent angina . as compared to a randomly selected group of 25 patients who underwent elective repeat cabg procedures during the same time period , the incidence of late cardiac events was significantly higher ( 79 % in the emergency group , 30 % in the elective surgery group ) and fewer patients had received internal mammary artery ( ima ) grafts ( 9 % vs 52 % ) . emergency repeat cabg operations have considerable operative mortality and poor postoperative functional results with the majority of survivors developing recurrent ischemic syndromes within a short period of time . 
primary repair for complete atrioventricular canal : recommendation for early primary repair . forty patients with complete atrioventricular canal ( cavc ) underwent primary repair at fukuoka children 's hospital in fukuoka , japan , between august 1 , 1981 and july 31 , 1989 . the age at repair ranged from 2 months to 6 years ( mean 19 months ) ; weight ranged from 2.3 to 22 kg . the surgical mortality was 2.5 % . justification for early primary repair was examined . eleven patients underwent repair before 6 months of age ( group 1 ) , 12 patients , between 7 and 11 months of age ( group 2 ) , and 17 patients , after 12 months of age ( group 3 ) . degenerative changes in the atrioventricular valve increased significantly as age at repair increased ( p less than 0.05 group 1 versus group 3 ) . the incidence of residual mitral regurgitation tended to increase in the order of group 1 , 2 and 3 , though the degree ranged from trivial to mild . study of the left atrium/aorta ratio by echocardiography revealed that stable values of around 1.1 in groups 1 and 2 and around 1.3 in group 3 continued during the follow-up period of 3 years . assessment of the diameter of the repaired mitral valve in the mean interval of 26 months in groups 1 and 2 revealed normal growth of the mitral valve annulus . the angle between the repaired mitral valve and ventricular septum , which can be affected by the growth of the ventricular septum , converged to normal range in the mean interval of 26 months . postoperative pulmonary vascular resistance in groups 2 and 3 was higher at 4.4 + / - 2.3 and 6.3 + / - 2.2 , respectively , than in group 1 at 3.3 + / - 2.2 ( p less than 0.01 versus group 3 ) . 
perioperative myocardial injury in patients undergoing aortic valve replacement . in cases of myocardial hypertrophy myocardial protection may be insufficient . in order to determine the factors responsible for myocardial injury we assessed myocardial injury in 54 patients undergoing isolated aortic valve replacement . in all cases hypothermic cardioplegic arrest was induced . at 13 different times we measured the serum level of creatine-kinase ( ck ) , myocardial bound creatine-kinase ( ckmb ) , lactic dehydrogenase ( ldh ) , alpha-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase ( alpha-hbdh ) , glutamic oxaloacetic transferase ( got ) and myoglobin . the mean duration of ischemia was 52.6 + / - 16.2 minutes and the mean time of extracorporeal circulation was 85.85 + / - 20.25 minutes . by performance of a multiple regression analysis a significant correlation between ischemia and ldh and alpha-hbdh was found ; ck , got , ldh and alpha-hbdh correlated with duration of extracorporeal circulation . in none of the patients was a low cardiac output syndrome observed . from our results we conclude that in our study myocardial protection was sufficient and therefore the detrimental effects of extracorporeal circulation were the determining factors of enzyme release . 
the de vega tricuspid annuloplasty . perioperative mortality and long term follow-up . one hundred and fifty-three patients undergoing de vega tricuspid annuloplasty , with or without other associated cardiac procedures between january , 1979 , and june , 1987 , were evaluated . there were 136 hospital survivors . the follow-up was 98.1 % complete for a mean of 3.7 years/patient . operative mortality was 11.1 % ; preoperative nyha class and length of cpb were significant risk factors of perioperative mortality . the actuarial survival of operative survivors at 9 years was 73.5 + / - 11.8 % . there were 7 late cardiac deaths among a total of 12 late deaths . eleven patients required reoperation ( 2.1 + / - 0.6 % patient-year ) . in seven patients it was necessary for recurrence of tricuspid regurgitation ; six of these had also a mitral prosthesis malfunction or a periprosthetic leak . residual tricuspid regurgitation was judged as mild , moderate or severe in 29.9 % , 11.9 % and 4.3 % of the patients respectively . de vega tricuspid annuloplasty is the method of choice for mild and moderate tricuspid insufficiency ; in selected cases , with a more severe degree of regurgitation , better results could be achieved with a different surgical approach . 
cardiac echinococcosis : the diagnostic value of computed tomography scanning . the diagnosis of cardiac hydatid disease is a difficult one . conventional and specific cardiac investigations are not pathognomonic of this disease . in this report , the diagnostic value of computed tomography ( ct ) scanning was prospectively investigated in seven patients . in five patients , the diagnosis was confirmed surgically . the ct-information obtained correlated accurately to the operative findings . in all the patients , ct-densities of the lesions were measured and were found to coincide with values of mean ct-densities of hydatid cysts elsewhere in the body . the capability of measuring tissue densities is unique to ct-scanning and have been emphasized in this report . 
right coronary artery injury during tricuspid valve annuloplasty . an unusual complication after tricuspid valve annuloplasty is described where a ring suture ligated right coronary artery and precipitated myocardial infarct and patient death . the need for caution to prevent this complication with such surgery is emphasized . 
enhanced utilization of exogenous glucose improves cardiac function in hypoxic rabbit ventricle without increasing total glycolytic flux . the effects of elevated glucose on cardiac function during hypoxia were investigated in isolated arterially perfused rabbit interventricular septa . rest tension , developed tension , intracellular potential , 42k + efflux , lactate production , exogenous glucose utilization , and tissue high-energy phosphate levels were measured during a 50-min period of hypoxia with 4 , 5 , or 50 mm glucose present ( isosmotically balanced with sucrose ) and during reoxygenation for 60 min with perfusate containing 5 mm glucose/45 mm sucrose . at physiologic ( 4 or 5 mm ) and supraphysiologic glucose ( 50 mm ) , lactate production and high-energy phosphate levels during hypoxia were equally well maintained , yet cardiac dysfunction was markedly attenuated by 50 mm glucose . despite identical rates of total glycolytic flux , exogenous glucose utilization was enhanced by 50 mm glucose so that tissue glycogen levels remained normal during hypoxia , whereas glycogen became depleted with 4 or 5 mm glucose present during hypoxia . most of the beneficial effects of 50 mm glucose occurred during the first 25 min of hypoxia . prior glycogen depletion had no deleterious effects during hypoxia with 50 mm glucose present , but exacerbated cardiac dysfunction during hypoxia with 5 mm glucose present . these findings indicate that enhanced utilization of exogenous glucose improved cardiac function during hypoxia without increasing total glycolytic flux or tissue high-energy phosphate levels , suggesting a novel cardioprotective mechanism . 
multiple breakpoint method for measuring effect of antibiotics on endocarditis strains of streptococci . the activity of penicillin alone and combined with aminoglycoside on endocarditis strains of streptococci was examined . good assay reproducibility was obtained by the use of logarithmic phase cultures standardised by opacity , careful inoculation of well-plates , removal of antibiotic by membrane transfer and incubating survival counts in hydrogen plus carbon dioxide . the use of 10-fold intervals for penicillin concentration simplified assay design without loss of efficiency . 
improved morphologic characterization of atrial septal aneurysm by transesophageal echocardiography : relation to cerebrovascular events . transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography was performed in 23 consecutive adult patients with an atrial septal aneurysm . in three patients with a cerebrovascular event the diagnosis was established by the transesophageal approach only . interatrial shunting on transthoracic imaging with use of echocardiographic contrast imaging or doppler color mapping , or both , was detected in 7 ( 41 % ) of 17 patients . on performing contrast imaging in combination with color flow mapping during transesophageal echocardiography , positive shunting was demonstrated in 15 ( 83 % ) of 18 patients . echocardiographic identification of multiple fenestrations ( n = 4 ) and thrombus within the aneurysm ( n = 2 ) could be achieved for the first time by transesophageal ultrasound application . cerebrovascular events occurred in 12 ( 52 % ) of 23 patients and were regarded as being definitely thromboembolic in 10 ( 43 % ) ; 8 ( 67 % ) of the 12 patients had repeated cerebral events . except for mitral valve prolapse in one patient , no other potential cardiac source of embolism could be identified despite the use of transesophageal echocardiography . a thickening of the aneurysmal membrane greater than or equal to 5 mm was found in 9 ( 75 % ) of 12 patients with versus 3 ( 27 % ) of 11 patients without a cerebrovascular event ( p less than 0.05 ) ; this proved to be the only significant difference between the two patient groups . the mechanism of embolization may be both primary thrombus formation within the aneurysm and paradoxic embolization through an interatrial communication as demonstrated by the findings in two patients . it is concluded that atrial septal aneurysm is a cardiac abnormality with thromboembolic potential . in patients with this lesion and a history of an embolic event , long-term anticoagulant therapy is indicated . 
transesophageal doppler color flow mapping assessment of atrial septal defect . transesophageal doppler color flow imaging was performed in 19 adult patients ( mean age 35 years ) with an atrial septal defect demonstrated by cardiac catheterization or at surgery , or both . the transesophageal study correctly identified and classified 19 of 19 shunts in contrast to 16 of 18 shunts identified by the transthoracic approach . the area of the atrial septal defect was calculated by assuming it to be circular and taking the maximal doppler color flow jet width at the defect site as its diameter . the pulsed doppler sample volume was placed parallel to the shunt flow direction at the defect site to obtain the mean velocity and flow duration . from these values , the shunt volume was calculated as a product of the defect area , mean velocity , flow duration and heart rate . the calculated shunt flow volume obtained by transesophageal study showed a good correlation with shunt flow volume ( r = 0.91 , p less than 0.001 ) and pulmonary to systemic blood flow ratio ( r = 0.84 , p less than 0.001 ) obtained at cardiac catheterization . the size of the defect by transesophageal doppler color flow mapping correlated fairly well with the size estimated at surgery ( r = 0.73 , p = 0.004 ) . it is concluded that transesophageal doppler color flow imaging is useful in the detection and classification of atrial septal defects and in the assessment of shunt volumes . 
outlook after acute myocardial infarction in the very elderly compared with that in patients aged 65 to 75 years little is known concerning late outcome and prognostic factors after acute myocardial infarction in the very elderly ( greater than 75 years of age ) . accordingly , this study compared the clinical course and mortality rate for up to 1 year in a large multicenter data base that included 702 patients greater than 75 years of age ( mean + / - sd 81 + / - 4 years ) , with a less elderly subset of 1,321 patients between 65 and 75 years of age ( mean 70 + / - 3 years ) . the postdischarge 1 year cardiac mortality rate was 17.6 % for those greater than 75 years of age compared with 12.0 % for patients between 65 and 75 years of age ( p less than 0.01 ) . there were differences in the prevalence of several factors , including female gender , history of angina pectoris , history of congestive heart failure , smoking habits and incidence of congestive heart failure during hospitalization . multivariate analyses of predictors of cardiac death in hospital survivors selected different factors as important in the two age subgroups ; age was selected in the 65 to 75 year age group but was not an independent predictor in the very elderly . the survival curves beginning at day 10 for patients 65 to 75 and in those greater than 75 years old were similar for up to 90 days but diverged later . in the very elderly , 63 % of late cardiac deaths were sudden or due to new myocardial infarction , similar to the causes of 67 % of deaths in the younger age group . 
changes in left ventricular diastolic performance after aortic balloon valvuloplasty : acute and late effects to evaluate acute and follow-up changes in left ventricular diastolic performance , simultaneous digital left ventriculography and micromanometry were performed in 49 patients undergoing aortic balloon valvuloplasty . all patients improved symptomatically after valvuloplasty , and 26 returned 6.3 + / - 1.5 months later for follow-up catheterization . immediately after valvuloplasty , aortic valve area increased ( before 0.5 + / - 0.2 versus after 0.8 + / - 0.2 cm2 , p less than 0.01 ) , cardiac output ( before 4.3 + / - 1.2 versus after 4.4 + / - 1.3 liters/min ) and ejection fraction ( before 51 + / - 18 % versus after 52 + / - 17 % ) did not change and diastolic indexes worsened , signified by a decrease in peak filling rate ( before 247 + / - 80 versus after 226 + / - 78 ml/s , p less than 0.01 ) and increase in the time constant of isovolumetric relaxation ( tau ) ( before 78 + / - 29 versus after 96 + / - 40 ms , p less than 0.01 ) and the modulus of chamber stiffness ( before 0.107 + / - 0.071 versus after 0.141 + / - 0.083 , p less than 0.01 ) . at follow-up catheterization , 16 patients continued to have symptomatic improvement ( group 1 ) and 10 had recurrence of symptoms ( group 2 ) . aortic valve area , cardiac output and ejection fraction at follow-up catheterization in both groups were similar and unchanged from values before valvuloplasty . 
coronary angioplasty in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction . the applications for coronary angioplasty have greatly expanded and the procedure is now increasingly used in complex and potentially high risk conditions . this report describes the short - and long-term effects of coronary angioplasty in 61 patients with severely depressed left ventricular function ( ejection fraction less than or equal to 35 % ) with unstable or refractory anginal symptoms , or both , in whom revascularization was necessary despite increased risk . in a retrospective analysis of 1,260 patients undergoing angioplasty between january 1985 through december 1987 , 61 had an ejection fraction less than or equal to 35 % . the common clinical presentation was unstable angina ( 70 % ) with or without recent myocardial infarction . mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 27 + / - 6 % . forty-five patients ( 74 % ) had multivessel disease . clinical success after angioplasty was achieved in 55 patients ( 90 % ) . major complications ( death , infarction and emergency bypass surgery ) occurred in five patients ( 8.2 % ) , with death in two ( 3.2 % ) . during long-term ( mean 21 + / - 11 months ) follow-up study of the 55 patients with successful angioplasty , 13 ( 23 % ) died , including 3 of noncardiac causes , and 11 ( 20 % ) had clinically symptomatic recurrence . continued clinical success was present in 39 patients ( 71 % ) , of whom 28 ( 51 % ) were event-free patients and 11 ( 20 % ) had clinical recurrence ; a successful second angioplasty procedure was performed in 9 because of restenosis . thus , in patients with depressed left ventricular function , coronary angioplasty can be performed with a short-term success rate comparable to that of routine angioplasty or surgical procedures . however , acute complications are more frequent and the late mortality rate is higher than in patients with less depressed function . 
coronary angioplasty after coronary bypass surgery : initial results and late outcome in 422 patients . from 1978 to 1988 , coronary angioplasty was performed in 422 patients with prior coronary artery bypass surgery ( 264 patients with native coronary artery angioplasty and 158 patients with graft angioplasty ) . angioplasty was successful in 84 % , unsuccessful but uncomplicated in 11 % and complicated by one or more major cardiac events in 5 % ( myocardial infarction 5 % , emergency bypass surgery 2 % and death 0.2 % ) . follow-up data were obtained in 99 % of 356 patients with successful angioplasty . at a mean of 33 + / - 26 months , 92 % were alive , 73 % had improvement in angina and 61 % were free of angina . one or more of the following late events occurred in 67 patients ( 19 % ) : myocardial infarction ( 6 % ) , elective reoperation ( 13 % ) and cardiac death ( 6 % ) . repeat angioplasty was performed in 27 % , with a success rate of 89 % and no deaths . initial success rates were equal in native vessel versus graft angioplasty , but late outcome was less favorable with the latter because of a higher rate of infarction ( 11 % versus 4 % , p less than 0.05 ) and need for reoperation ( 19 % versus 10 % , p less than 0.05 ) . the initial success rate was higher in vein grafts less than 1 year old compared with grafts 1 to 4 years or greater than 4 years after operation ( 92 % versus 85 % versus 83 % , respectively ) and adverse late events were less frequent after angioplasty in recent vein grafts ( less than 1 year 13 % , 1 to 4 years 35 % , greater than 4 years 29 % ; less than 1 versus greater than 1 year , p less than 0.05 ) . 
natural history of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in the elderly . the prognosis of patients diagnosed as having hypertrophic cardiomyopathy at advanced age has not been well defined . this study details follow-up information obtained for 95 patients initially diagnosed as having hypertrophic cardiomyopathy at age greater than or equal to 65 years . seventy-five percent of patients were symptomatic , as defined by the presence of chest pain , dyspnea or syncope , and the mean ventricular septal thickness was 20 mm . the median duration of follow-up study was 4.2 years . the survival rate at 1 and 5 years was 95 % and 76 % , respectively , which was not significantly different from that an age - and gender-matched control group . of patients presenting with new york heart association functional class i or ii dyspnea , only 18 % progressed to class iii or iv during the follow-up period . however , patients presenting with class iii dyspnea had a 1 year mortality rate of 36 % , significantly higher than that of control subjects ( p less than 0.003 ) . of the echocardiographic variables , indexed left atrial size was most strongly associated with reduced survival ( p less than 0.008 ) . these results suggest that the prognosis of elderly patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is generally favorable . certain clinical and echocardiographic variables appear to be of use in identifying patients with a less favorable prognosis . 
prognostic importance of the serum magnesium concentration in patients with congestive heart failure . magnesium abnormalities are common in patients with congestive heart failure but the clinical and prognostic significance of an abnormal serum magnesium concentration in this disorder has not been investigated . therefore , the relation between serum magnesium concentration and the clinical characteristics and long-term outcome of 199 patients with chronic heart failure was evaluated . the serum magnesium concentration was less than 1.6 meq/liter in 38 patients ( 19 % ) , within the normal range in 134 patients ( 67 % ) and greater than 2.1 meq/liter in 27 patients ( 14 % ) . patients with hypomagnesemia had more frequent ventricular premature complexes and episodes of ventricular tachycardia than did patients with a normal serum magnesium concentration ( p less than 0.05 ) . even though the two groups were similar with respect to severity of heart failure and neurohormonal variables , patients with a low serum magnesium concentration had a significantly worse prognosis during long-term follow-up ( 45 % versus 71 % 1 year survival , p less than 0.05 ) . patients with hypermagnesemia had more severe symptoms , greater neurohormonal activation and worse renal function than did patients with a normal serum magnesium concentration but tended to have fewer ventricular arrhythmias . hypermagnesemic patients had a worse prognosis than did those with a normal magnesium concentration ( 37 % versus 71 % 1 year survival , p less than 0.05 ) . in conclusion , the measurement of serum magnesium concentration provides important clinical and prognostic information in patients with chronic heart failure . 
cardiac rhythm disturbances early after orthotopic heart transplantation : prevalence and clinical importance of the observed abnormalities . to precisely define the incidence , type and consequences of cardiac arrhythmias early after heart transplantation , 25 cardiac transplant recipients were monitored continuously for 728 days from the day of surgery to discharge or death . a subset of 15 patients had sinus node function studies with overdrive suppression performed weekly at the time of endomyocardial biopsy . results revealed sinus bradycardia in 10 patients ( 40 % ) and junctional bradycardia in 6 ( 24 % ) . supraventricular tachycardia in the form of atrial tachycardia , atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter occurred in 11 patients ( 44 % ) . ventricular tachycardia occurred in 15 patients ( 60 % ) and was nonsustained in all . cardiac pacing for 1,403 h was used in nine patients with a pulse rate less than 50 beats/min ; seven recovered and permanent pacing was instituted in two . in the subgroup that had sinus node function studies , seven patients were identified with clinical bradyarrhythmia ; each had abnormal sinus node recovery time ( greater than 1,400 ms ) and abnormal corrected sinus node recovery time ( greater than 525 ms ) in at least one study . these seven patients also had a significantly prolonged ischemic time ( 236 + / - 26 versus 159 + / - 68 min , p less than 0.01 ) . in conclusion , cardiac arrhythmias , particularly ventricular tachycardia and bradyarrhythmia , occur more commonly early after orthotopic heart transplantation than has previously been reported . sinus node dysfunction due to prolonged organ ischemic time , antiarrhythmic drug use or surgical trauma , alone or in combination , may contribute to these arrhythmias . 
a new single catheter technique for simultaneous measurement of action potential duration and refractory period in vivo . in vivo correlations of action potential duration measured by a monophasic action potential catheter and effective refractory period measured by a separate pacing catheter have been poor , probably because of the known variability of both action potential duration and effective refractory period between different ventricular sites . in this study , a new quadripolar contact electrode catheter designed for simultaneous pacing and monophasic action potential recording at closely adjacent sites ( 2 mm separation between recording electrodes and pacing electrodes ) was tested in five closed chest dogs and four patients . dog studies : pacing thresholds were extremely low , ranging from 0.02 to 0.25 ma ( mean + / - sd 0.099 + / - 0.051 , n = 36 ) and were stable over time ( less than 20 % increase during 1 h of continuous pacing ) . because of the close proximity of pacing and recording electrodes , the pacing artifact nearly coincided with the monophasic action potential upstroke . because of the low pacing threshold , however , pacing artifacts were small ( 33 + / - 17 % of the monophasic action potential amplitude at twice diastolic threshold strength ) and did not affect the duration or configuration of the simultaneously recorded monophasic action potential . the short stimulus response time and the undisturbed monophasic action potential signal fidelity during pacing allowed precise simultaneous measurements of action potential duration and effective refractory period at the same endocardial site . 
the automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator in young patients . an international survey identified 40 patients less than 20 years old who underwent surgical implantation of an automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator ( aicd ) . there was a history of aborted sudden cardiac death or sustained ventricular tachycardia in 92.5 % of these patients . twenty-two patients ( 55 % ) had structural heart disease ; dilated and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy were the most common diagnoses . eighteen patients ( 45 % ) had primary electrical abnormalities including seven with the congenital long qt syndrome . there were no perioperative deaths associated with device implantation . concomitant drug therapy was administered to 75 % of the patients . defibrillator discharge occurred in 70 % of the patients , with 17 patients ( 42.5 % ) receiving at least one appropriate shock . there were two sudden and two nonsudden deaths at 28.2 months ' median follow-up . sudden death-free survival rates by life table analysis at 12 and 33 months were 0.94 and 0.88 , respectively . total survival rates at 12 and 33 months were 0.94 and 0.82 , respectively . the aicd represents an effective treatment approach for young patients with life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias . 
accuracy of prospective two-dimensional/doppler echocardiography in the assessment of reparative surgery . between january 1987 and january 1989 , all 129 patients ( aged 11 days to 25 years , median 39 months ) undergoing both an echocardiographic examination and cardiac catheterization after reparative surgery were prospectively included in a study to assess the accuracy of combined two-dimensional and doppler color flow imaging . the patient diagnoses were transposition of the great arteries ( n = 20 ) , tetralogy of fallot ( n = 38 ) , coarctation of the aorta ( n = 24 ) , complete atrioventricular ( av ) canal ( n = 15 ) , atrial septal defect ( n = 8 ) , ventricular septal defects ( n = 3 ) , pulmonary stenosis ( n = 4 ) , aortic stenosis ( n = 8 ) and subaortic stenosis ( n = 9 ) . in arterial tract stenosis , there was high correlation between doppler estimates and catheterization-derived measurements of residual right ventricular outflow tract obstruction in patients after the arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries ( r = 0.95 ) as well as in patients after corrective repair of tetralogy of fallot ( r = 0.84 ) . in semilunar/av valve regurgitation , graded as none , mild , moderate or severe , echocardiographic estimates correlated exactly with angiographic grading in 84 % and differed by one angiographic grade in the other 16 % . in residual left to right shunting , no hemodynamically significant shunt was missed by echocardiography . for residual shunts at the ventricular level ( n = 32 ) , addition of doppler color flow imaging improved the sensitivity ( from 63 % to 94 % ) and the negative predictive value ( from 88 % to 98 % ) . in elevated right ventricular pressure , doppler-derived right ventricular-right atrial pressure estimates in 24 patients correlated well with catheterization measurements ( r = 0.93 ) . combined two-dimensional and doppler color flow echocardiography was highly accurate in the prospective evaluation of these four types of postoperative residual . 
comparative roles of intraoperative epicardial and early postoperative transthoracic echocardiography in the assessment of surgical repair of congenital heart defects in 94 consecutive patients undergoing surgical repair of congenital heart defects the results of intraoperative ( after cardiopulmonary bypass ) epicardial two-dimensional and doppler color flow imaging were compared with those of sequential transthoracic echocardiography performed within 24 h of surgery and again before hospital discharge to define the precise role of intraoperative imaging . in 6 of 7 patients with a residual defect requiring immediate surgical revision , intraoperative imaging correctly identified the defect ; spectral doppler imaging underestimated or did not identify a residual outflow tract gradient in 17 patients . left atrioventricular ( av ) valve regurgitation after repair of complete av septal defect was underestimated in three patients . although intraoperative documentation of good ventricular function was usually associated with a good outcome , in three patients poor systemic ventricular function after cardiopulmonary bypass was not associated with early mortality . a minor degree of shunting around the patch was a common finding on epicardial and early postoperative imaging and persisted at the time of hospital discharge in 17 of 46 patients who had undergone patch closure of a ventricular septal defect as part of the surgical procedure . additional trabecular septal defects were missed on color flow imaging after cardiopulmonary bypass in three patients , one of whom required subsequent reoperation . although intraoperative two-dimensional and color flow imaging permitted the recognition of the majority of residual defects requiring immediate revision , residual outflow obstruction or av valve regurgitation was usually underestimated . 
the daylong pattern of the antianginal effect of long-term three times daily administered isosorbide dinitrate three times daily administration of isosorbide dinitrate may avoid much of the tolerance seen with more frequent dosing . to determine the daylong pattern of the antianginal effect of three times daily isosorbide dinitrate , eight men with stable exertional angina and a positive exercise test were studied . the subjects had demonstrated increased exercise duration in response to oral isosorbide dinitrate therapy and absence of complete tolerance to long-term three times daily isosorbide dinitrate . treadmill exercise to onset of angina was performed over 2 days at 8 am , 9 am , 11 am , 1 pm , 2 pm , 4 pm , 6 pm and 7 pm . on one day each patient received isosorbide dinitrate at 8 am , 1 pm and 6 pm in a previously titrated dose ( mean 27.5 mg ) , which had been taken three times daily for at least 2 weeks . on the other day at the same hours each patient received double blind a placebo identical in appearance to isosorbide dinitrate . one hour after the 8 am dose of isosorbide dinitrate , mean systolic blood pressure at rest had fallen by 19 mm hg and mean exercise time to angina increased by 200 s. however , by 11 am exercise time had returned to control level . one hour after the 1 pm dose of isosorbide dinitrate , exercise time increased by a mean of 150 s but was again at control level 2 h later . 
myocardial amiodarone and desethylamiodarone concentrations in patients undergoing cardiac transplantation . myocardial amiodarone and desethylamiodarone concentrations were measured at multiple sites in the explanted heart in four patients who underwent cardiac transplantation . patients were taking amiodarone , 200 to 400 mg/day ( mean 300 + / - 115 ) , for 88 to 428 days ( mean 229 + / - 148 ) . the mean cumulative dose was 58 + / - 21.3 g. plasma amiodarone concentration in three subjects was 204 , 312 and 419 ng/ml and desethylamiodarone concentration was 268 , 513 and 880 ng/ml , respectively . significant interindividual variability in myocardial concentrations of amiodarone and desethylamiodarone was observed ( p less than 0.05 ) . mean myocardial amiodarone concentration ranged from 4 + / - 1.0 to 29 + / - 17.2 micrograms/g ( p less than 0.05 ) ; mean desethylamiodarone concentration ranged from 22 + / - 8.8 to 141 + / - 102.5 micrograms/g ( p less than 0.05 ) . at each site , save for fat , myocardial desethylamiodarone concentration was higher than amiodarone concentration . greater intraindividual variability was observed in myocardial desethylamiodarone compared with amiodarone concentration particularly in septal and scar tissue ( p = ns ) . no significant relation was found between myocardial concentration and duration of treatment . in patients with significant ventricular disease , usefulness of plasma amiodarone and desethylamiodarone concentration to estimate myocardial concentration is limited by intra - and interindividual variability . 
effects of benazepril and metoprolol oros alone and in combination on myocardial ischemia in patients with chronic stable angina the efficacy of benazepril , metoprolol oros and their combination was evaluated in 29 patients ( 42 to 74 years of age ) with chronic stable angina and documented coronary artery disease in a placebo-controlled , double-blind , crossover trial using serial quantitated exercise testing and ambulatory electrocardiographic ( ecg ) monitoring . the mean ( + / - sem ) exercise time was 8.5 + / - 0.7 min with placebo , 8.3 + / - 0.6 min ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] -1.06 to 0.54 ) with benazepril , 9.4 + / - 0.5 min ( 95 % ci -0.32 to 2.14 ) with metoprolol oros and 9.6 + / - 0.5 min ( 95 % ci -0.25 to 2.47 ) with the combination of benazepril and metoprolol oros . the mean exercise time to the development of 1 mm st segment depression was prolonged from 6.0 + / - 0.6 min with placebo to 6.3 + / - 0.6 min ( 95 % ci -0.93 to 1.45 ) with benazepril , 7.9 + / - 0.5 min ( 95 % ci 0.83 to 3.0 ) with metoprolol oros and 8.1 + / - 0.6 min ( 95 % ci 0.88 to 3.29 ) with the combination of benazepril and metoprolol oros . benazepril did not alter the rest or maximal heart rate , whereas metoprolol oros alone and in combination significantly lowered the heart rate at rest and during maximal exercise . systolic blood pressure at rest was nonsignificantly reduced , whereas diastolic blood pressure was lowered significantly by all treatments in comparison with placebo . at maximal exercise , only metoprolol oros , whether given alone or in combination with benazepril , was able to blunt significantly systolic blood pressure and rate-pressure product . 
does intracoronary infusion of fluosol-da 20 % prevent left ventricular diastolic dysfunction during coronary balloon angioplasty ? distal intracoronary infusion of the perfluorochemical fluosol-da 20 % has been shown to prevent systolic dysfunction during coronary artery balloon occlusion in coronary angioplasty . to assess its effect on global diastolic dysfunction , a randomized , single-blind , crossover protocol comparing intracoronary infusion of fluosol or no infusion ( control ) was performed during 60 s balloon inflations in 10 patients ( mean age 67 years ) undergoing coronary angioplasty . assessment of global systolic and diastolic function was obtained with high fidelity micromanometer measurements of left ventricular pressure . eighteen pairs of balloon inflations ( fluosol versus control ) were analyzed . patients reported significantly less severe chest pain during inflations accompanied by fluosol compared with control . however , during coronary balloon occlusion , no significant differences in the changes from baseline values were observed between fluosol and control with regard to ventricular relaxation , including the time constant of early ventricular relaxation ( tau ) and maximal rate of fall in left ventricular pressure ( maximal negative dp/dt ) . no differences between fluosol and control were observed in terms of the increase in end-diastolic pressure or minimal diastolic pressure during balloon inflation . mean systolic pressure decrease from baseline values was greater during control than during fluosol inflations ( -9.0 + / - 3.3 mm hg , p = 0.013 ) , but no significant difference was observed in the change in maximal rate of rise in left ventricular pressure ( maximal positive dp/dt ) . these results suggest that fluosol does not preserve global left ventricular diastolic function during coronary balloon occlusion , possibly because of its limited oxygen delivery capability relative to arterial blood . 
early and late effects of captopril treatment after large myocardial infarction in rats . the early ( after 21 days ) and late ( after 4 months ) effects of continuous treatment with captopril on left ventricular performance , weight and volumes were studied in rats with myocardial infarction . early effects were examined in rats subjected to coronary ligation and randomized to either immediate treatment with captopril ( 2 g/liter drinking water ) starting 2 h after surgery or no treatment . after 21 days , the treated group showed reductions in mean arterial , left ventricular systolic and left ventricular end-diastolic pressures compared with untreated rats . right and left ventricular weight and left ventricular volumes were decreased and the ejection fraction index was increased by captopril treatment . to study the late effects of captopril , a second group of rats was randomized to immediate captopril treatment ( starting 2 h after surgery ) , delayed captopril treatment ( starting 21 days after surgery ) or no treatment . when studied after 4 months of treatment , rats started on captopril treatment 2 h after infarction showed no differences compared with rats started on treatment 21 days after infarction . treatment with captopril for 4 months produced changes that were similar to those in rats treated for 21 days . captopril treatment improved hemodynamic function after myocardial infarction in rats examined after either 21 days or 4 months of treatment . the extent of the benefit was similar in the two treatment periods . initiation of captopril therapy immediately after infarction did not appear to produce a greater effect than treatment started at 21 days after infarction in rats studied after the drug had been administered for 4 months . 
heart rate variability before and after myocardial infarction in conscious dogs at high and low risk of sudden death . heart rate variability has been demonstrated both experimentally and clinically to be of prognostic importance in determining mortality after myocardial infarction . however , no paired studies have been reported to examine heart rate variability before and after myocardial infarction . the hypothesis was tested that low values of heart rate variability provided risk assessment both before and after myocardial infarction with use of an established canine model of sudden cardiac death . risk for sudden death was assessed 1 month after myocardial infarction by a protocol in which exercise and myocardial ischemia were combined ; dogs that developed ventricular fibrillation were classified at high risk for sudden death ( susceptible ) and the survivors were considered low risk ( resistant ) . in resistant dogs , myocardial infarction did not affect any measure of heart rate variability : 1 ) mean rr interval , 2 ) standard deviation of the mean rr interval , and 3 ) the coefficient of variance ( standard deviation/rr interval ) . by contrast , after myocardial infarction , susceptible dogs showed significant decrease in all measures of heart rate variability . before myocardial infarction , no differences were seen between susceptible and resistant dogs . however , 30 days after infarction , epidemiologic analysis of the coefficient of variance showed high sensitivity and specificity ( 88 % and 80 % , respectively ) , predicting susceptibility . therefore , results of analysis of 30 min of beat to beat heart period at rest 30 days after myocardial infarction are highly predictive for increased risk of sudden death . 
echocardiographic definition of the left ventricular centroid . ii . determination of the optimal centroid during systole in normal and infarcted hearts . although two-dimensional echocardiography is widely used in both clinical and experimental evaluations of regional cardiac wall motion , there is no established clinical method for quantitative analysis of the wall motion , not even for the normal radial motion observed in short-axis images . measurement of radial wall motion requires determination of a centroid from which the radii emanate . depending on its definition , the centroid is variously affected throughout systole by cardiac translation , regional wall motion and any shift of the subject position or transducer . a floating centroid is defined relative to the ventricular walls frame by frame , whereas a fixed centroid never moves with respect to the transducer . evaluation of the best approach to definition of a centroid was previously presented ( part i , this issue ) . the next question is how to use the centroid . this study examines which of four centroid applications provides the best reference for quantifying regional wall motion during systole . method 1 is a floating centroid ( defined separately for every image frame ) , method 2 uses the end-diastolic centroid as a fixed reference for all image frames , method 3 uses the end-systolic centroid as a fixed reference and method 4 uses the average as a fixed reference . wall motion was measured with respect to each of these centroids by determining radial wall motion from end-diastole to end-systole and correlating radial motion throughout the cardiac cycle with that in normal control hearts . 
dietary preference for sweet foods in patients with dementia using a telephone survey , patients with probable alzheimer 's disease ( n = 31 ) and vascular dementia ( n = 14 ) were compared with elderly normal controls ( n = 43 ) in preferences for different foods . patients with alzheimer 's disease had a greater preference than normal controls for relatively high-fat , sweet foods and for high-sugar , low-fat foods , but did not significantly differ in preference for other foods , including those high in complex carbohydrates and protein . vascular dementia patients showed a similar pattern , not significantly different from that for alzheimer 's patients . results did not consistently support a hypothesis that increased sweet preference is a nonspecific form of disinhibited behavior related to declining mental status , nor was a hypothesis relating sweet preference to serotonin activity within the brain consistently supported . results provide preliminary evidence that craving for sweet food may be a significant part of the clinical syndrome of dementia , but further research is needed to delineate the psychological and biological mechanisms accounting for it . 
neuropsychological outcome of survivors of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest . thirty patients resuscitated from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest ( 15 with and 15 without postanoxic coma on admission ) underwent a clinical examination and neuropsychological testing . in order to assess quality of life , they were compared to two matched control groups ; 15 patients with previous myocardial infarction and 15 healthy subjects . none of the survivors showed severe neurologic impairment , and all had returned to self-sufficient physical activity . however , the behavior rating scale scores were significantly worse in patients with postanoxic coma . the processing ability linked to memory was significantly worse in the postanoxic coma group . mood disorders were also observed in this group , but they did not have pathological significance . the remarkably low incidence of neurologic and psychological sequelae in these resuscitated patients , particularly in those with early clinical evidence of severe cerebral damage , is an encouraging result that supports the therapeutic systems development and efforts in the management of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest . 
traumatic rupture of the thoracic aorta presenting as transient paraplegia . a patient involved in a high-speed motor vehicle accident presented paraplegic to the emergency department . he was noted to have an abnormal chest x-ray and , subsequently , underwent aortography which revealed aortic transection . the patient 's paraplegia resolved spontaneously prior to definitive aortic repair hours later . aortic rupture presenting as paraplegia is a rare association , but one an emergency physician should be cognizant of , especially in the case of blunt or decelerating trauma . 
lower extremity venography with iohexol : results and complications . the frequency of side effects of a nonionic contrast agent ( iohexol ) was studied in 463 consecutive patients who underwent venography for clinically suspected deep-vein thrombosis ( dvt ) and compared with the frequency of adverse reactions of another series in which patients received either the same contrast material or a high-osmolar ionic compound . minor side effects , including local pain and discomfort , nausea and vomiting , dizziness , skin reactions , superficial phlebitis , and edema , occurred in 83 patients ( 17.9 % ; 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 15 % -22 % ) . the only serious adverse reaction ( bronchospasm ) was seen in two patients ( 0.4 % ; 95 % ci , 0.1 % -1.4 % ) . postvenographic thrombosis confirmed by means of repeat venography occurred in one of 41 consecutive patients with a previous normal venogram ( incidence , 2 % ; 95 % ci , 0 % -13 % ) . the frequency of side effects appears to be significantly less than when conventional high-osmolar contrast agents are used . use of iohexol for venography is associated with minor side effects in approximately one-fifth of patients , and serious adverse reactions necessitating therapy are rare . 
segmented turboflash : method for breath-hold mr imaging of the liver with flexible contrast . a method called segmented turboflash imaging allows high-resolution , multisection , short-inversion-time ( ti ) inversion-recovery ( stir ) , t1 - or t2-weighted magnetic resonance ( mr ) studies of the liver to be completed within a breath-hold interval . the method was applied in a phantom and in 19 patients with hepatic lesions . sequence comparisons were performed among segmented turboflash , single-shot turboflash , t1-weighted gradient-echo with ultrashort echo time , and t2-weighted spin-echo ( se ) techniques . signal from fat and liver could be nulled with the segmented turboflash method , with tis of 10 and 300 msec , respectively ; signal from these tissues could not be eliminated with the single-shot approach . signal-difference-to-noise ratios and contrast for the best segmented sequences were comparable with those of the best t2-weighted se and t1-weighted gradient-echo techniques . it is concluded that it is feasible to obtain breath-hold images with arbitrary tissue contrast by means of segmented turboflash imaging . the method may prove helpful for the detection and characterization of hepatic lesions and will likely have applications to other anatomic regions such as the chest and pelvis . 
mitral stenosis : evaluation with mr imaging after percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty . to evaluate the pathoanatomic findings of mitral valve stenosis and changes after percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty ( pbv ) , magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging was performed in 23 patients . the patients were imaged with a 2.0-t system within 1 week before and 3-10 days after pbv . the angle of the interatrial septum was measured on the transverse image to facilitate a successful transseptal puncture . on mr images , the mean transverse and anteroposterior diameters of the left atrium at the level of the aortic root in the ventricular diastolic phase decreased significantly after pbv . areas of flow-related intraluminal signal intensity detected in the left atrial cavity of 17 patients ( 74 % ) before the procedure disappeared in 15 patients after the procedure . other mr imaging findings after pbv were the disappearance of intraluminal signal intensity in the pulmonary artery , normal curvature of the interatrial and interventricular septa , and pericardial effusion as a complication . mr imaging was thought to provide useful information before and after pbv in patients with mitral stenosis . 
vena caval flow : assessment with cine mr velocity mapping . the authors used cine magnetic resonance ( mr ) velocity mapping to study flow in the superior vena cava ( svc ) and inferior vena cava ( ivc ) of 13 healthy control subjects and 13 patients with right-sided cardiac disease . in the control subjects , peaks of flow in systole and diastole were observed , and mean svc flow was 35 % of the cardiac output . respiratory gating was used in six control subjects to acquire images at end inspiration and end expiration , and although the systolic peak was reduced at end expiration , total flow was unchanged . a reduced systolic peak and retrograde flow in the ivc were observed in patients with tricuspid regurgitation . a reduced diastolic peak was seen in patients with pulmonary hypertension , pericardial constriction , and right ventricular dysplasia , reflecting reduced diastolic compliance of the right ventricle . in the patient with obstruction of the svc , absence of flow was confirmed , and retrograde flow was seen in the azygos vein . the authors believe that cine mr velocity mapping is a reliable method of studying vena caval flow noninvasively and that it has important potential applications for the investigation of disorders of the right side of the heart . 
evolution of deep venous thrombosis : a prospective evaluation with us . forty-six patients with a diagnosis of acute deep venous thrombosis ( dvt ) established by means of duplex ultrasound ( us ) were prospectively followed up with serial duplex us examinations during a 6-month period to assess the persistence of venous abnormalities . all patients were asymptomatic . isolated popliteal dvt was found to be more likely to revert to normal at duplex compression us than thrombosis involving both the femoral and popliteal systems ( p less than .05 ) . increased venous diameter was a sign of acute clot ( p less than .005 ) . clot echogenicity did not help to enable distinction of acute dvt and chronic dvt . at compression us , 10 of 21 patients ( 48 % ) who initially had occlusive thrombosis had persistent abnormalities that mimicked findings consistent with acute dvt . chronic venous changes that persisted after 6 months consisted of either lumen recanalization ( with resultant intimal thickening ) or persistent venous occlusion . both of these conditions can result in incomplete compression , the major us indication of acute dvt . this appearance should not be confused with that of acute dvt . follow-up examinations to establish a baseline appearance can be obtained as early as 6 months after an acute episode of dvt . 
renal artery stenosis in patients with aortic dissection : increased prevalence the authors retrospectively analyzed the prevalence of renal artery stenosis in 63 consecutive patients with aortic dissection who underwent thoracic and abdominal aortography . ten patients ( 16 % ) had renal artery stenosis , five with atherosclerosis and five with fibromuscular lesions . risk factors for aortic dissection were marfan disease in nine patients , bicuspid aortic valve in one , and hypertension in 54 ( including seven patients with marfan syndrome ) . if the patients with marfan syndrome and the patient with the bicuspid aortic valve are excluded , renal artery stenosis was present in 10 of 53 patients ( 19 % ) when the cause of dissection was presumably hypertension . this finding suggests that renovascular hypertension is a greater risk factor for aortic dissection than is essential hypertension . the success of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty ( ptra ) in controlling renovascular hypertension has been proved . in this series , emergent ptra successfully controlled the hypertension in one patient with a type b dissection , resulting in an excellent clinical outcome . angiography should be routinely performed on patients with aortic dissections to evaluate for renal artery stenosis . 
fate of patients undergoing transluminal angioplasty for lower-limb ischemia . a prospective study of 370 patients who underwent 500 percutaneous transluminal angioplasties ( ptas ) for lower-limb ischemia over a 7-year period was performed . a 97 % follow-up rate was achieved . the first pta was successful in 188 patients ( 51 % ) . of the failures , 31 % were failed attempts at dilation and 73 % occurred within 1 month of intervention . of the patients with failed pta , 39 % underwent bypass surgery and 24 % underwent amputation . the 30-day mortality rate was 3 % , with 1 % of the deaths attributed to pta . the survival rate at 5 years for the successes was double that for the failures ( p less than .0005 ) . the best results were in femoropopliteal stenoses with two or three patent calf vessels ( cumulative patency rate , 78 % at 3 years ) and the worst in femoropopliteal occlusions with one or no patent calf vessels ( cumulative patency rate , 25 % at 3 years ) . log rank tests on the life-table data were used to show factors favoring a good outcome . it is concluded that pta is the treatment of first choice in suitable patients and , although the failure of intervention in critical ischemia has a significant risk , it is a valuable addition to the therapeutic options in patients with little chance of surgical treatment . 
percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of crural arteries . the authors dilated 103 stenosed crural arteries in 71 patients . primary success was defined as traversing and reducing the lesion to a residual stenosis of less than 30 % . this was achieved in 96 % of cases . complications included one vessel rupture and one occluding intimal flap , which were treated by the vascular surgeon with bypass and venous patch , respectively . one hematoma at the puncture site was treated surgically because of its size . with modern materials such as steerable guide wires and low-profile balloon catheters , dilation of crural arteries has become safe . until now , the indications for percutaneous transluminal angioplasty ( pta ) of crural arteries have been limited to fontaine stages iii and iv disease . the authors believe that the indications for pta in fontaine stage iib disease are justified , especially if intervention improves outflow after a more proximal recanalizing procedure is performed . 
therapeutic embolization : enhanced radiolabeled monitoring . radiolabeling of ivalon ( polyvinyl alcohol sponge ) particles permits localization of injected particles during embolization through the use of a portable gamma camera and provides a means to prevent potentially fatal complications such as pulmonary embolization . a more efficient technique of labeling ivalon particles with technetium-99m sulfur colloid was developed . an increase in labeling efficiency allowed more accurate determination of the distribution of injected ivalon particles . scanning electron microscopy demonstrated the stability of the ivalon particles during this new labeling process . two patients with arteriovenous malformations underwent therapeutic embolization with radiolabeled ivalon particles ; gamma camera imaging of the lesion and chest was performed throughout the procedure . 
angioplasty from the contralateral approach : use of a guiding catheter and coaxial angioplasty balloons . an 8-f guiding catheter has been developed for use with coaxial angioplasty balloon catheters in angioplasty of the femoral artery from the contralateral approach when antegrade puncture of the ipsilateral femoral artery is not possible . the catheter may be used for angioplasty of the femoral artery bifurcation and the superficial femoral artery and for arterial stenoses in patients with renal transplants . 
irrigation device for neuroangiographic procedures . a simple irrigation device for use in diagnostic and interventional neuroangiographic procedures is described . the device is used to flush bubbles and blood clots from catheter hubs . the authors also describe a technique in which this device can be used to prevent filling a catheter with air when a guide wire is removed . 
synergistic effects of psyllium in the dietary treatment of hypercholesterolemia . we investigated psyllium fiber supplementation as a means of enhancing the cholesterol-lowering effect of the phase i american heart association diet . fifty-nine subjects with total serum cholesterol ( tc ) levels ranging from 5.56 to 10.24 mmol/l ( 215 to 396 mg/dl ) were given a 2-month dietary lead-in followed by 3 months of diet only ( 29 subjects ) or diet supplemented with 20.4 g of psyllium daily ( 30 subjects ) . unlike women , men had a significant decrease in levels of both tc ( -8.0 % ) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( ldl-c ) ( -10.1 % ) during the dietary lead-in . psyllium supplementation resulted in an additional 5.5 % reduction in the tc levels as compared to diet alone . psyllium supplementation combined with dietary lead-in resulted in an overall 17.3 % decrease in the tc and a 20.0 % decrease in ldl-c for men , with decreases of 7.7 % and 11.6 % , respectively , for women . psyllium effectively enhances the cholesterol-lowering effect of the phase i diet . 
medicinal leeches : once again at the forefront of medicine . medical grade leeches have recently been used in the management of acute problems relative to venous congestion in patients with traumatic injuries and surgical problems . specific cases , especially in the realm of reconstructive microsurgery , have demonstrated the effectiveness and application of leech therapy . specific contraindications include arterial insufficiency from either anatomic or mechanical obstruction . we present five illustrative cases of successful therapeutic intervention . 
relationship between duration of spinal cord ischemia and postoperative neurologic deficits in animals . twenty hogs were administered the following procedures before , during , and after overdistraction of the spinal column at t5-t6 : somatosensory ( sep ) and neurogenic-motor evoked potentials ( nmeps ) , hydrogen clearance procedures , stagnara wake-up tests , and aortic-injection of silastic plastic . to ensure that overdistraction was possible , a nonosseous , circumferential osteotomy was made at t5-t6 and distraction applied in one-ratchet increments using harrington instrumentation . overdistraction was maintained for 3 , 5 , 6 , 10 , 15 , 20 , 25 , or 30 minutes . results indicated that the duration of overdistraction , as represented by lost nmeps , was always correlated with the animal 's clinical status on wake-up test . if overdistraction was maintained more than 6 minutes , 100 % of the animals demonstrated positive wake-up results ; if maintained between 5 and 6 minutes , 75 % demonstrated positive wake-up results ; and if maintained less than 5 minutes , only 25 % demonstrated positive wake-up results . time-to-loss of the nmeps and seps , after onset of overdistraction , fell within two groups : slow and fast . in the slow group , it required slightly more than 20 minutes ( mean = 20.6 ) for the potentials to be lost , while in the fast-loss group data were lost in slightly less than 4 minutes ( mean = 3.6 ) . blood flow studies and inspection of the spinal cord revealed that the mechanism of action for the slow group appeared to be ischemia of the spinal cord that extended several centimeters above and below the site of maximum distraction . in the fast-loss group , it appeared that gross structural damage , with some very localized ischemia , were the mechanisms of actions influencing the integrity of the spinal cord . 
a multifactorial analysis of mortality and morbidity in perforated peptic ulcer disease . perforated peptic ulcer disease remains a source of considerable morbidity and mortality , and the suggested methods of surgical therapy are diverse . we reviewed the course of 113 patients who were treated surgically and identified 14 factors that influenced the morbidity or mortality rates , or both . multiple regression analysis showed that the number of coexisting medical conditions , a lower mean blood pressure level and the duration of acute perforation were independent risk factors for death , while age , use of a bronchodilator , a lower mean blood pressure level and the number of coexisting medical conditions correlated positively with all complications . a duodenal site was independently favorable with respect to all complications . the type of operation performed either simple closure , vagotomy and drainage or resection , did not influence morbidity or mortality . the most severely ill patients also did not benefit from any particular type of operation in the short term . long term results were improved with definitive operation , as measured by the visick classification and the need for reoperations . definitive operations are recommended for virtually all patients with perforated peptic ulcer . 
immediate preoperative phlebotomy with autologous blood donation for aortic replacement . the preferential use of autologous blood provided by phlebotomy can reduce the need for homologous blood transfusion in patients undergoing extensive elective operations . this blood is usually provided either by intraoperative isovolemic hemodilution or phlebotomy one to two weeks preoperatively . to minimize the intraoperative time delay or preoperative period between phlebotomy and operation required in these patients , we performed preoperative isovolemic hemodilution in 69 patients one to two days prior to elective aortic replacement for infrarenal aneurysmal disease . patients underwent phlebotomy a mean of 0.57 + / - 0.01 liter of whole blood ; volume was replaced with lactated ringer 's solution . hematocrit levels decreased from a mean value of 42.9 + / - 0.4 per cent to 33.7 + / - 0.3 per cent . mean intraoperative blood loss was 1.2 + / - 0.05 liters . hemodynamic parameters ( blood pressure , cardiac output , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure , central venous pressure , oxygen delivery and systemic vascular resistance ) remained stable throughout the perioperative and intraoperative time periods . in addition , we evaluated the technical modification of exclusion aneurysmorrhaphy ( n = 50 ) versus open aneurysmorraphy ( n = 19 ) on reduction of intraoperative homologous blood transfusion in these patients . seventy-two per cent ( 36 of 50 ) of patients whose aneurysms were excluded received no homologous blood intraoperatively . blood loss was decreased in the excluded versus open aneurysmorraphy group , 920 + / - 90 milliliters versus 2,030 + / - 250 milliliters , as were homologous blood transfusion requirements , 175 + / - 35 milliliters versus 570 + / - 119 milliliters . two patients died ( 2.9 per cent mortality rate ) , and there was no increase in morbidity . surgical treatment of large aortic aneurysms is frequently performed on an urgent basis ; thus , provision of autologous blood for this operation in a short period of time may be beneficial . isovolemic hemodilution performed during the immediate preoperative period can reduce homologous blood requirements and be safely performed without adverse effects on mortality , morbidity and myocardial performance . exclusion aneurysmorrhaphy may further reduce dependence on homologous blood . 
results of vein graft reconstruction of the lower extremity in diabetic and nondiabetic patients . the results of 171 vein grafts of the lower extremity were evaluated . these were placed between january 1981 and december 1987 in 150 patients , 75 diabetic and 75 nondiabetic , to determine the influence of diabetes on the outcome of the procedure . one and four year patency rates were determined by a life table analysis . no statistical differences in primary patency were found between the patients with diabetes and those without diabetes for all indications of operations ( one year , diabetic patients 95 + / - 3 per cent , nondiabetic patients 85 + / - 3 per cent ; four years , diabetic patients 89 + / - 11 per cent and nondiabetic patients 80 + / - 12 per cent ; p = n.s. ) . for those operated upon for salvage of the limb because of rest pain , ulceration or gangrene , patency in diabetic patients at one year approached a statistically significant advantage ( diabetic patients 94 + / - 4 per cent versus nondiabetic patients 79 + / - 8 per cent ; p = 0.056 ) . we believe that arterial reconstruction of the lower extremity can be performed upon patients with diabetes with the same high degree of success for revascularization and salvage of the limb as can be accomplished in nondiabetic patients . this is true even though those with diabetes present with necrosis of the tissue and more often require bypass to distal tibial arteries . 
response of spinal cord blood flow and motor and sensory evoked potentials to aortic ligation . to produce spinal cord ischemia in the lamb , ligation of the thoracic aorta was performed for 15 , 30 , and 45 minutes in three animals each . spinal cord blood flow and motor and sensory evoked potentials were measured before , during , and after aortic ligation . ischemia with a blood flow of zero during ligation was encountered in the thoracic and lumbar cords , followed by hyperemia upon release of the ligature . both somatosensory and motor evoked potentials were obliterated during aortic ligation and gradually recovered following resumption of flow . motor and sensory evoked potentials behaved similarly to high aortic ligation . 
experimental isobaric subarachnoid hemorrhage : regional mitochondrial function during the acute and late phase . patients treated for aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage show , in the long-term follow up , an elevated rate of cognitive disturbances that are mainly related to the impact of the initial bleeding : the neurotoxic effects of blood deposition in subarachnoidal spaces may result in a diffuse encephalopathy , but the intrinsic mechanism and the biochemical correlates are not known . in the present study we have evaluated mitochondrial function after experimental induction of subarachnoid hemorrhage . mitochondrial function was evaluated in four different rat brain areas ( frontal cortex , occipital cortex , hippocampus , and brain stem ) after experimental isobaric subarachnoid hemorrhage in rats . subarachnoid hemorrhage was induced by injecting 0.07 ml of arterial autologous blood into the cisterna magna . intracranial pressure did not significantly increase . the nonsynaptic mitochondrial fraction was isolated from different rat brain areas , and the maximal rate of enzymatic reactions of some key enzymatic activities related to the krebs cycle [ nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide ( oxidized form ) ( nad + ) - isocitrate dehydrogenase , citrate synthase , and succinate dehydrogenase ] and of the electron transfer chain ( cytochrome oxidase ) were evaluated . the nonsynaptic mitochondrial fraction was utilized also to check parameters related to the mitochondrial respiration : state 3 , state 4 , uncoupled state , respiratory control ratio , and adenosine 5 ' - diphosphate/oxygen ratio . the biochemical parameters were measured at 1 and 72 hours after the subarachnoidal injection of blood . subarachnoid hemorrhage did not affect the mitochondrial enzymatic activities both at 1 and 72 hours , while the mitochondrial enzymatic activities parameters were significantly affected : in particular , a significant decrease of respiratory control ratio in all tested brain areas was demonstrated . the increased mitochondrial vulnerability in the delayed phases could be one of the biochemical correlates of post-hemorrhagic encephalopathy . 
effect of diltiazem and thromboxane a2 synthetase inhibitor ( oky-046 ) on vessels following experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage . in order to examine the functional changes in the vascular smooth muscle , the effects of a thromboxane a2 synthetase inhibitor ( oky-046 ) and a calcium channel blocker ( diltiazem ) on vessels following subarachnoid hemorrhage , and the contractile activity of cerebral vessels with various vasoactive agents , were investigated by studying isometric tension recordings in rings of cat basilar artery . the maximum contractile activities of the vessels in response to noradrenalin and adrenaline during the course of subarachnoid hemorrhage were significantly less than those in the control group . on the other hand , the maximum contractile activity of the vessels in response to prostaglandin f2 alpha on the seventh day following subarachnoid hemorrhage was significantly augmented compared with that in the control group . a significant decline in the relaxation of responsiveness to diltiazem during the course of subarachnoid hemorrhage was observed compared with that of diltiazem in the control group . this responsiveness to vasoactive agents was not influenced by the application of oky-046 . the present study reveals functional changes in vascular smooth muscle exposed to subarachnoid hemorrhage in response to vasoactive agents and a calcium entry blocker . thromboxane a2 may not be a significantly influential factor in the present results . it is suggested that cerebral vasospasm may well be related to functional changes of the arterial wall , which appear to be associated with derangement of the mechanisms of smooth muscle constriction and dilatation based on organic changes . 
intractable complex partial seizures associated with occult temporal lobe encephalocele and meningoangiomatosis : a case report . occult congenital temporal lobe encephalocele has rarely been reported in association with medically intractable complex partial seizures . the four previously reported cases were unsuspected preoperatively . we present the case of an 18-year-old woman with intractable complex partial seizures since age 13 . seizure onset was electrically localized to the right temporal lobe . preoperative neuroimaging studies revealed a middle fossa defect and inferior herniation of the right temporal lobe . pathologic examination of the resected encephalocele revealed prominent features of meningoangiomatosis . we believe this to be the first case of temporal lobe encephalocele and epilepsy to be diagnosed preoperatively , and the first case also to be associated with meningoangiomatosis . the relevant literature on meningoangiomatosis and on temporal lobe encephalocele as a cause of epilepsy is reviewed . 
value of magnetic resonance imaging in spontaneous extradural spinal hematoma due to vascular malformation : case report . a case of spinal cord compression due to spontaneous extradural spinal hematoma is reported . a spinal arteriovenous malformation was suspected on the basis of magnetic resonance imaging . early surgical exploration allowed a complete neurological recovery . the vascular malformation was histopathologically confirmed . the role of magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of acute spinal cord compression syndromes is stressed . 
spinal extradural cavernous hemangioma . three cases of isolated spinal extradural cavernous hemangiomas are reported , two in the thoracic and one in the lumbar region . one of them manifested as acute cord compression , the other two as chronic progressive myelopathy or radiculopathy . a total excision or subtotal excision with irradiation was performed . all of them had good functional recovery . the clinical picture , radiological diagnosis , and optimal method of treatment are discussed . the relevant literature is reviewed . 
combined orthopedic and vascular injury in the lower extremities : indications for amputation . a retrospective review was undertaken to determine risk factors associated with amputation after open fractures of the lower extremity that were complicated by vascular injury . during an 11-year period ending in december 1987 , we observed open fractures in 31 patients and injuries to the popliteal artery in 16 patients , to the tibial arteries in eight patients , to the femoral artery in five patients , and to the dorsal artery of the foot in two patients . vascular repair was accomplished in 25 patients ; 12 patients had primary end-to-end anastomosis , 12 patients had reverse saphenous vein grafts , and one patient had a bovine graft . of these 25 patients , five patients required amputation because of infection and three patients required amputation because of continued ischemia . three patients with irreparable damage had immediate amputation , and three patients without distal ischemia had vessel ligation only . the risk factors associated with amputation were shock on admission ( 10 of 19 patients [ p less than 0.02 ] ) and a crushed extremity ( 10 of 18 patients [ p less than 0.01 ] ) . the overall amputation rate , which included three immediate amputations and eight late amputations , was 35.2 % . the data suggest that limb salvage is possible in two thirds of patients with combined orthopedic and vascular injuries of the lower extremity , but a history of shock or crush injury with vascular compromise is an unfavorable prognostic sign . 
heparin-induced thrombocytopenia in patients who undergo open heart surgery . to determine whether heparin-dependent antiplatelet antibodies ( haab ) have an effect on morbidity and/or mortality rates , we reviewed the cases of 3438 patients who underwent open heart surgery from 1981 to 1989 . forty-six patients ( 1.3 % ) had haab . the patients were divided into two groups : those patients who were known to have haab before surgery ( group i ) and those patients who were diagnosed with haab after surgery ( group ii ) . group i patients ( n = 5 ) were pretreated with platelet-inhibiting drugs before reexposure to heparin during cardiopulmonary bypass and were maintained with strict abstinence from heparin afterward . their lowest observed platelet counts ranged from 42,000 / mm3 to 89,000 / mm3 ( median , 63,00 / mm3 ) . thromboembolic complications did not occur , and all patients survived . group ii patients ( n = 41 ) who were diagnosed to have haab after surgery had not been pretreated with platelet-inhibiting drugs before surgery . lowest platelet counts ranged from 11,000 / mm3 to 128,000 / mm3 ( median , 42,000 / mm3 ) . bleeding complications occurred in 21 patients ( 51 % ) , and thromboembolic complications occurred in 13 patients ( 32 % ) . hospital mortality in group ii patients was 37 % . late recognition of haab was associated with an increase in morbidity and mortality rates . thromboembolic complications of haab , which had been diagnosed before surgery , were eliminated , and bleeding was reduced by pretreatment with platelet-inhibiting drugs and strict abstinence from heparin after surgery . 
results of infrainguinal bypass for limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease . limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease ( esrd ) is complicated by the diffuse , obstructive , calcific arteriopathy that makes anastomotic technique especially critical . furthermore , decreased resistance to infection and impaired wound healing produced by host-factor deficiencies such as diabetes mellitus , hypoalbuminemia , uremia , and immunosuppression produce additional obstacles to successful limb salvage . this report summarizes our experience with distal arterial bypass procedures in these patients . a total of 32 bypass procedures were performed for limb salvage in 24 patients ( 17 diabetic ) during a period of 5 years . the operative mortality rate was 6 % . during the same period , 635 infrainguinal bypass procedures were performed by the in situ technique in patients without esrd . primary bypass patency was comparable in both groups at 24 months ( 92 % vs 90 % ) . in the group with esrd , overall limb salvage was 83 % at 2 years . life-table analysis of bypass patency and limb salvage was thought not to be appropriate in the population with esrd beyond 2 years because of the increased mortality rate ( 38 % ; 9/24 ) during this interval . it is important that limb salvage was achieved in diabetic patients with esrd in the presence of extensive foot gangrene or ischemic ulceration . revascularization should be considered strongly for limb salvage in all patients in this difficult population . 
lower extremity percutaneous transluminal angioplasty : multifactorial analysis of morbidity and mortality . we analyzed the outcome of 202 percutaneous transluminal angioplasty ( pta ) procedures performed between 1983 and 1989 to quantitate procedural risks and define factors associated with suboptimal results or immediate clinical failure . premorbid factors studied included age , sex , treatment of single versus multiple lesions , stenoses versus occlusions , premorbid status of the limb ( claudication vs limb threat ) , and most distal level of pta . adverse outcomes included complications ( hematoma , acute occlusion , or thrombosis of pta site , distal embolization , failure to dilate or cross , arterial dissection , rupture , and significant systemic derangement ) , major amputations ( below knee and above knee ) , and deaths . there were 66 complications ( 32.7 % ) , 22 amputations ( 10.9 % ) , and 12 deaths ( 5.9 % ) in our series . logistic regression analysis revealed that the major predictive variable for the occurrence of a complication ( p = 0.002 ) , and the only predictive variable for the outcomes of amputation and death ( p = 0.0001 and p = 0.0139 , respectively ) , was the premorbid clinical status of the limb . lower extremity pta is not an intrinsically benign procedure and is associated with a significant risk of complication , amputation , and procedure-associated death . these adverse outcomes cluster in patients with limb threat . therefore it may be reasonable to restrict the use of pta to patients with claudication and strictly selected cases of limb threat . 
naloxone and spinal fluid drainage as adjuncts in the surgical treatment of thoracoabdominal and thoracic aneurysms . forty-seven patients who were treated for thoracoabdominal or thoracic aneurysms over a 5 1/2 - year period were analyzed for neurologic deficit risk . patients were divided into two groups for analysis . twenty-four patients , who were treated from january 1984 to december 1986 , did not undergo spinal fluid drainage or naloxone administration ( group a ) . twenty-three patients , who were treated from january 1987 to august 1989 , had spinal fluid drainage ( group b ) ; 12 patients in this group also received naloxone as an intravenous drip at 1 microgram/kg/hr for 48 hours after surgery . permanent neurologic deficits occurred in seven ( 29 % ) group a patients but in only one ( 4 % ) group b patient , who did not receive naloxone ( p less than 0.03 ) . the first two group b patients to receive naloxone showed complete reversal of neurologic deficits on waking from anesthesia . this significant reduction in neurologic deficit was associated with an increased 1-year survival rate ( 72 % in group a , 91 % in group b ) . we conclude that the use of naloxone and spinal fluid drainage reduces the incidence of neurologic deficit that is associated with repair of thoracoabdominal and thoracic aortic aneurysms . this reduction in neurologic deficit is associated with improved survival in the long term . the observed reversal of postoperative neurologic deficits with naloxone implicates opiates as a major factor in the pathophysiology of spinal cord ischemia . 
stroke and its modification in parkinson 's disease . previous studies have not agreed on the incidence of ischemic stroke in persons with parkinson 's disease . there are epidemiologic and neurochemical facets of parkinson 's disease that might confer some benefit or protection against ischemic stroke . we used a case-control method to determine the lifetime history of ischemic stroke in 200 patients with parkinson 's disease and 200 controls of a similar age range . analysis was also carried out for myocardial infarction as a marker of generalized atherosclerotic disease and for stroke risk factors . the cumulative incidence of ischemic stroke was significantly less in the patients with parkinson 's disease than in the controls , as was the cumulative incidence of myocardial infarction . among risk factors , significantly fewer patients with parkinson 's disease used tobacco than controls . the decreased incidence of ischemic stroke in the patients with parkinson 's disease appears to be related to their less severe generalized atherosclerosis , possibly due to their lower incidence of tobacco use . in view of the known potential for dopamine to exacerbate experimental ischemic tissue damage , the possibility that the dopamine deficiency in the central nervous system of persons with parkinson 's disease confers an additional specific protective benefit against ischemic stroke can not be excluded and requires further study . 
hemodynamics in internal carotid artery occlusion examined by positron emission tomography . using positron emission tomography in nine patients with minor strokes , unilateral internal carotid artery occlusion , and good collateral circulation through the anterior portion of the circle of willis , we analyzed regional cerebral blood flow , cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen , oxygen extraction fraction , and cerebral blood volume . these studies allowed quantification of the regional hemodynamic status , especially in relation to watershed areas . compared with eight normal controls , the patients had significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) decreased regional cerebral blood flow in the middle cerebral artery territory and the surrounding watershed areas of the occluded hemisphere . the oxygen extraction fraction rose with the distance from the anterior portion of the circle of willis , attaining the highest value in the superior parietal and posterior temporo-occipital watershed area . a concomitant decrease in the cerebral blood flow/cerebral blood volume ratio suggested reduction in the mean blood flow velocity , whereby elevated blood viscosity would be more liable to reduce cerebral blood flow . these findings suggest hemodynamic vulnerability of the watershed areas after internal carotid artery occlusion in persons with good collateral circulation through the anterior portion of the circle of willis . our results also emphasize the importance of systemic hemodynamic factors such as blood pressure and circulating blood volume in the genesis of watershed infarction . 
age-related spontaneous intracerebral hematoma in a german community . we investigated incidence , age distribution in relation to etiology , and localization of spontaneous intracerebral hematoma in 100 consecutive cases . incidence in the total population of the giessen area was estimated to be greater than 11/100 ,000 inhabitants/yr and increased with age . there was a trend toward higher incidence in males . overall mortality was 27 % , 22 % of 58 patients aged less than 70 years and 33 % of 42 patients aged greater than or equal to 70 years . hypertensive putaminal hematoma showed the highest mortality rate ( 42 % , 10 of 24 cases ) . chronic alcoholism and anticoagulant medication influenced the mortality rate unfavourably . we found the following localizations and etiologies to have a specific relation with age : 1 ) lobar hematomas from vascular malformations , group aged less than 40 years ; 2 ) hypertensive putaminal hematomas and hypertensive thalamic hematomas , group aged 40-69 years ; and 3 ) lobar hematomas , group aged greater than or equal to 70 years . alcoholism was an additional factor in 38 % of the 13 middle-aged men with hypertensive putaminal hematomas . fourteen cases of spontaneous intracerebral hematoma were possibly due to cerebral amyloid angiopathy . six of these 14 patients had recurrent lobar hematomas , but only three of the six could be histologically investigated . in these three cases , cerebral amyloid angiopathy was proven . 
leukoaraiosis , intracerebral hemorrhage , and arterial hypertension . to investigate whether the observed association of leukoaraiosis with intracerebral hemorrhage is direct or mediated by risk factors , we compared 116 patients with intracerebral hemorrhage confirmed by computed tomography and 155 controls without intracerebral hemorrhage , evaluating the prevalence of leukoaraiosis and vascular risk factors . leukoaraiosis was observed in 21 ( 18 % ) of the 116 patients and in 12 ( 8 % ) of the 155 controls ( p less than 0.01 ) . only two ( 6 % ) of the 31 patients with lobar hemorrhage had leukoaraiosis on computed tomograms , compared with 17 ( 24 % ) of the 71 patients with basal ganglionic hemorrhage ( p less than 0.05 ) . leukoaraiosis was significantly correlated with intracerebral hemorrhage after controlling for age and sex by using multiple logistic regression analysis , while the correlation disappeared after controlling for hypertension . our results indicate that leukoaraiosis is not an independent risk factor for intracerebral hemorrhage . 
risk factors for white matter changes detected by magnetic resonance imaging in the elderly . we found increased age ( p = 0.001 ) and history or evidence of stroke ( p = 0.016 ) to be significant independent multivariate predictors of the presence and severity of leukoencephalopathy on magnetic resonance imaging brain scans in a mixed population of 35 elderly psychiatric patients and 25 neurologically healthy elderly volunteers . these results suggest that subcortical ischemia , as well as age-related changes that may not be vascular in origin , contribute to the emergence of periventricular and other deep white matter hyperintensities that are commonly seen on the magnetic resonance imaging brain scans of older adults . 
pharmacologic irreversible narrowing in chronic cerebrovasospasm in rabbits is associated with functional damage . we studied isolated basilar artery segments from a rabbit model of chronic cerebrovasospasm . autologous blood placed around the basilar artery of rabbits killed 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , or 9 days later caused narrowing of the segments with a biphasic time course . the first ( immediate ) phase was reversed by intra-arterial papaverine ; the second phase exhibited an increasing component of narrowing that was papaverine-insensitive . based on the passive force/length curves , basilar artery segments became increasingly stiff over 9 days . by contrast , the segments ' contractility decreased . responses of the basilar artery segments were greater over the first few days , but then became less than that of saline-injected controls . contractions in response to norepinephrine and potassium were reduced . endothelium-based acetylcholine-induced vasodilation progressively diminished , as did the response to sympathetic nerve stimulation . there was a negative correlation between artery wall stiffness and contractility . the papaverine-insensitive component of angiographic narrowing correlated directly with loss of contractility and with artery wall stiffness . these results are consistent with the conclusion that increased artery wall stiffness is a primary determining factor in the arterial narrowing of chronic cerebrovasospasm . 
cerebral venous thrombosis due to heparin-induced thrombocytopenia . a patient with polycythemia vera who was treated with heparin for superficial septic thrombophlebitis developed heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and cerebral venous thrombosis with superior sagittal sinus occlusion 11 days after the institution of heparin therapy . we suggest that the severe thrombotic response to the heparin-induced platelet disorder in this patient occurred because the polycythemia vera and the purulent infection enhanced the thrombophilia caused by heparin-induced thrombocytopenia . this condition can be avoided in most instances if heparin is used for no longer than 5 days . 
two cases of spontaneous internal carotid artery occlusion due to giant intracranial carotid artery aneurysm . although spontaneous thrombosis of a giant intracranial aneurysm is relatively common , occlusion of its parent artery is rare . we describe two recent patients in whom the parent artery spontaneously occluded . one patient had severe stenosis of the left internal carotid artery , with delayed appearance of a faint shadow of vascular widening near the posterior clinoid process . one month later , complete occlusion of the left internal carotid artery was shown angiographically . the second patient had dysarthria and left hemiparesis , resulting in the diagnosis of a left internal carotid artery giant aneurysm . he had suffered an episode of visual disturbance of the right eye 5 years before . angiography showed the right cervical internal carotid artery to be occluded . we believe the mechanism of parent artery occlusion in our two patients to be due first to stretching of the internal carotid artery by the enlarged aneurysm , followed by compression of the internal carotid artery by the aneurysm itself . next , the anterior clinoid process and the optic nerve are involved , and , finally , thrombosis of the aneurysmal cavity extends into the internal carotid artery itself . 
prostaglandins , the kidney , and hypertension prostaglandins are part of the family of oxygenated metabolites of arachidonic acid known collectively as eicosanoids . while they are formed , act , and are inactivated locally and rarely circulate in plasma , they can affect blood flow in some tissues and so might contribute to the control of peripheral vascular resistance . few studies have shown any derangement of total body prostaglandin synthesis or metabolism in hypertension , but increased renal synthesis of one prostanoid , thromboxane a2 , has been noted in spontaneously hypertensive rats and some hypertensive humans . this potent vasoconstrictor may account for the increased renal vascular resistance and suppressed plasma renin activity seen in many patients with hypertension . increased renal vascular resistance could increase the blood pressure directly as a component of total peripheral resistance or indirectly by increasing glomerular filtration fraction and tubular sodium reabsorption . specific thromboxane synthesis inhibitors not only decrease renal thromboxane production but also increase renal vasodilator prostaglandin synthesis when prostaglandin synthesis is stimulated . this redirection of renal prostaglandin synthesis toward prostacyclin might be of benefit in correcting a fundamental renal defect in patients with hypertension . 
stress and hypertension in susceptible persons emotional stress results in immediate sympathetic stimulation , with a vasomotor response that results in a high-output state and elevated blood pressure ; the vasopressor response seems to be transient . there seems to be no longitudinal epidemiologic validation of the attractive hypothesis that transiently elevated blood pressures are the prelude to fixed hypertension , however . the acquisition of hypertension by populations abandoning their traditional mode of living has been attributed to the sociocultural stress inherent in westernization , but these studies usually have not taken into account concomitants of this type of acculturation , such as dietary changes and increased body weight . the inverse relationship of blood pressure levels to education could explain the development of hypertension when aspiration to upward mobility is thwarted . the severity of perceived occupational stress relates inversely to blood pressure , suggesting that familiarity with a job renders the demands made by the work environment more predictable and less threatening in terms of vasopressor response . 
therapeutic cardiac catheterization in children cardiac catheterization , once the mainstay of diagnosis in children with congenital heart disease , has become a therapeutic modality for many conditions . balloon dilatation can now open stenotic valves and vessels , coils and umbrellas can now close unwanted communications , and emboli can be withdrawn without surgical intervention . 
time delays in the diagnosis and treatment of acute myocardial infarction : a tale of eight cities . report from the pre-hospital study group and the cincinnati heart project . to establish the magnitude of prehospital and hospital delays in initiating thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction , the time from telephone 911 emergency medical system ( ems ) activation to treatment and its components were analyzed from eight separate ongoing trials . this included estimates of ambulance response time , prehospital evaluation and treatment time , and time from admission to the hospital to initiation of thrombolytic therapy . the average time from ems activation to patient arrival at the hospital was prospectively determined to be 46.1 + / - 8.2 minutes in 3715 patients from eight centers . the time from admission to the hospital to initiation of thrombolytic therapy was retrospectively determined to be 83.8 + / - 55.0 minutes in a separate group of 730 patients from six centers . both the prehospital and hospital time delays were much longer than those perceived by paramedics and emergency department directors . shorter hospital time delays were observed in patients in whom a prehospital ecg was obtained as part of a protocol-driven prehospital diagnostic strategy and a diagnosis of acute infarction made before arrival at the hospital ( 36.3 + / - 11.3 minutes in 13 patients ) . these results show that the magnitude of time required to evaluate , transport , and initiate thrombolytic therapy will preclude initiation of treatment to most patients within the first hour of symptoms . implementation of a protocol-driven prehospital diagnostic strategy may be associated with a reduction in time to thrombolytic therapy . 
assay of serum cardiac myosin heavy chain fragments in patients with acute myocardial infarction : determination of infarct size and long-term follow-up . to evaluate the correlation between myosin heavy chain release and the necrosis mass , serum levels of myosin heavy chain fragments were determined serially in 55 patients with acute myocardial infarction . eight of these patients were successfully treated with thrombolytic agents : the others were not treated . the same myosin titration was applied to the sera of 25 dogs with an experimental myocardial infarction . six of the dogs were successfully treated with thrombolytic agents . the time courses of the myosin concentrations are typical and monophasic for all patients with a noncomplex myocardial infarction . the values for the kinetic parameters of myosin release are comparable to those previously reported . we have now determined that cumulative myosin release significantly correlates with cumulative creatine kinase ( ck ) , ck-mb , and lactate dehydrogenase release , as well as with thallium-201 distribution , as determined for different patient groups . thrombolytic treatment does not seem to qualitatively upset myosin kinetics . the results obtained in dogs with or without thrombolysis conclusively indicate that myosin release is a quantitative index of the necrosis mass . from a practical point of view , a few serial determinations of serum levels of myosin heavy chains are enough to estimate the necrosed mass in patients with acute myocardial infarction . more generally , serum myosin titration could be useful in detecting any cardiac disturbance involving myocardial injury resulting in membrane leakage of cardiac cells . 
reduction in infarct size by the phospholipase inhibitor quinacrine in dogs with coronary artery occlusion . it has been suggested that activation of tissue phospholipases may contribute to the development of ischemic cell injury . in the present study we sought to assess whether administration of the phospholipase inhibitor quinacrine would reduce the extent of myocardial necrosis after coronary artery occlusion . in open-chest , anesthetized dogs the left anterior descending coronary artery was ligated , and technetium-99-labeled albumin microspheres were injected into the left atrium to measure the area at risk . the animals were then randomly divided into a control group ( n = 8 ) and a group receiving quinacrine ( 5 mg/kg intravenous bolus followed by a 40 micrograms/kg/min infusion for 6 hours ; n = 9 ) . the animals were killed 6 hours after occlusion , and the infarcted area was delineated by triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining . the extent of the risk region was similar in the two groups ( 32.3 + / - 2.1 % of the left ventricle in control dogs and 34.2 + / - 3.4 % in quinacrine-treated dogs ) . infarct size was 86.4 + / - 8.8 % of the risk region in control animals , whereas in treated dogs it averaged 62.3 + / - 6.4 % of the risk region ( p = 0.05 ) . no differences were found in heart rate , arterial pressure , and rate-pressure product between the two groups . thus administration of the phospholipase inhibitor quinacrine reduced the extent of myocardial necrosis in a model of fixed coronary artery occlusion . preservation of membrane phospholipids , reduced formation of lipoxygenase metabolites , or both may mediate this phenomenon . 
intracoronary adenosine administration during reperfusion following 3 hours of ischemia : effects on infarct size , ventricular function , and regional myocardial blood flow . previous studies have demonstrated that adenosine significantly enhances myocardial salvage after 90 minutes of regional ischemia . to determine its effect after prolonged ischemia , closed-chest dogs underwent 3 hours of left anterior descending artery occlusion followed by 72 hours of reperfusion . intracoronary adenosine ( 3.75 mg/min ; at 1.5 ml/min : total volume = 90 ml ; n = 10 ) or an equivalent volume of saline ( 1.5 ml/min : total volume = 90 ml ; n = 9 ) was infused into the left main coronary artery during the first 60 minutes of reperfusion . regional myocardial blood flow was assessed serially with microspheres and regional ventricular function was assessed by contrast ventriculography . infarct size was determined histologically . light and electron microscopy were utilized to assess neutrophil infiltration and microvascular injury . adenosine failed to reduce infarct size expressed as a percentage of the area at risk ( 38.0 + / - 4.9 % versus 34.8 + / - 4.6 % ; p = ns ) or to improve regional ventricular function as measured by the radial shortening method ( 3.2 + / - 1.8 % versus 2.2 + / - 3.1 % ; p = ns ) at 72 hours after reperfusion . vasodilatory effects were not observed in the endo - and midmyocardial regions of the ischemic zone during adenosine administration . this was associated with a similar extent of capillary endothelial changes and neutrophil infiltration in both adenosine-treated and saline control groups . these results suggest that severe functional abnormalities are present in the vasculature after 3 hours of ischemia and that adenosine therapy is ineffective in enhancing myocardial salvage . 
dmpo and reperfusion injury : arrhythmia , heart function , electron spin resonance , and nuclear magnetic resonance studies in isolated working guinea pig hearts . with the use of isolated working guinea pig hearts with normothermic global ischemia , it was shown that 5,5-dimethyl-pirroline-n-oxide ( dmpo ) , an organic spin trap agent designed specifically to form stable adducts with oxygen free radicals in electron spin resonance studies , can dramatically reduce the vulnerability of the heart to reperfusion-induced arrhythmias . studied in concentrations ranging from 10 to 500 mumol/l , dmpo exerted a dose-dependent protective effect . thus , after 30 minutes of global ischemia , the incidence of ventricular fibrillation ( total ) and tachycardia was reduced from control values of 100 % and 100 % to 100 % and 100 % , 91 % and 100 % , 25 % ( p less than 0.001 ) and 50 % ( p less than 0.05 ) , and 25 % ( p less than 0.001 ) and 41 % ( p less than 0.05 ) , respectively , with dmpo concentrations of 10 , 30 , 100 , and 500 mumol/l . maximum signals of dmpo-oh adduct , with the use of electron spin resonance studies , were observed after 3 minutes of reperfusion in fibrillated hearts but were not detected in nonfibrillated hearts . results of nuclear magnetic resonance studies of myocardial adenosine triphosphate , creatine phosphate , ph , and inorganic phosphate showed that these parameters were not significantly changed by treatment with dmpo , and consequently myocardial heart function was not improved , although there was a dissociation between myocardial adenosine triphosphate content and left ventricular developed pressure during reperfusion . the data presented here indicate that oxygen free radicals play an important role in the development of reperfusion-induced arrhythmias but trapping these cytotoxic free radicals does not improve the recovery of postischemic heart function and high-energy phosphate contents in isolated working guinea pig hearts . 
clinical significance of plasminogen activator inhibitor activity in patients with exercise-induced ischemia . to assess the fibrinolytic system in patients with exercise-induced ischemia and its relation to ischemia and severity of coronary artery disease ( cad ) , 47 patients with cad confirmed by results of coronary angiography underwent symptom-limited multistage exercise thallium-201 emission computed tomography . all patients with cad had exercise-induced ischemia as assessed from thallium-201 images . pre - and peak exercise blood samples from each patient and preexercise blood samples from control subjects were assayed for several fibrinolytic components and were also assayed for plasma adrenaline . the extent of ischemia was defined as delta visual uptake score ( total visual uptake score in delayed images minus total visual uptake score in initial images ) and the severity of cad as the number of diseased vessels . in the basal condition , plasminogen activator inhibitor ( pai ) activity was significantly higher in patients with exercise-induced ischemia as compared to control subjects ( p less than 0.01 ) , although there were no significant differences in other fibrinolytic variables between the two groups . moreover , pai activity in the basal condition displayed a significantly positive correlation with the extent of ischemia ( r = 0.47 , p less than 0.01 ) . patients with exercise-induced ischemia were divided into two groups ( 24 with single-vessel disease and 23 with multivessel disease ) . there were no significant differences in coronary risk factors , hemodynamics , or plasma adrenaline levels during exercise between single-vessel and multivessel disease except that delta visual uptake score was significantly higher in multivessel disease ( p less than 0.01 ) . 
comparison of coronary angiography and early oral dipyridamole thallium-201 scintigraphy in patients receiving thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction . we evaluated 50 consecutive patients who received thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction using thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography in combination with oral dipyridamole ( 300 mg ) to assess the frequency of residual myocardial ischemia . thallium studies were performed early after myocardial infarction at a mean of 4.6 days ( range 3 to 11 ) in 50 patients . the time from the onset of chest pain to the administration of thrombolytic therapy was 2.6 hours ( range 0.5 to 5.5 ) . q wave myocardial infarction was evident in 46 patients ; four patients had a non-q wave infarction ( anterior infarction in 31 patients and inferior infarction in 19 patients ) . the serum mean peak creatinine kinase was 1503 iu/l ( range 127 to 6500 ) . coronary angiography was performed in all patients at a mean of 3.1 days ( range 2 to 10 ) and revealed the infarct-related vessel to be patent in 36 patients ( 72 % ) . the ejection fraction was 48 % ( range 26 % to 67 % ) . after dipyridamole administration , 13 patients ( 26 % ) developed angina that was easily reversed with the administration of intravenous aminophylline . systolic blood pressure decreased from 122 to 115 mm hg ( p less than 0.05 ) and the heart rate increased from 76 to 85 beats/min ( p less than 0.05 ) . none of the patients had significant hypotension , arrhythmias , or evidence of infarct extension . perfusion abnormalities were present on the initial thallium images in 48 patients . redistribution suggestive of ischemia was present in 36 patients ( 72 % ) . ischemia confined to the vascular distribution of the infarct vessel was evident in 22 patients . seven patients had ischemia in the infarct zone as well as in a remote myocardial segment . thus 29 patients ( 58 % ) had ischemia in the distribution of the infarct vessel . ischemia in the infarct zone was evident in 19 of 36 patients ( 53 % ) with open infarct vessels and in 10 of 14 patients ( 71 % ) with occluded infarct vessels . in conclusion , thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography using oral dipyridamole was safely performed in patients with recent myocardial infarctions who receive thrombolytic therapy . 
similar time course of st depression during and after exercise in patients with coronary artery disease and syndrome x. to assess whether the time course of st segment depression differs in patients with coronary artery disease and patients with angina and normal coronary arteries , the exercise tests of 54 patients with documented coronary artery disease and 25 patients with syndrome x ( angina , positive exercise test , no evidence of coronary artery spasm , and normal coronary arteries ) were compared . all tests were performed with therapy withheld , using the modified bruce protocol . in each test , time , heart rate and blood pressure were measured at the onset and at 1 mm of st segment depression , and at peak exercise . recovery ( return of the st segment to baseline + / - 0.2 mm ) time was also assessed . peak st segment depression was similar in coronary artery disease and syndrome x patients ( 1.5 + / - 0.3 versus 1.6 + / - 0.4 mm ) . in 42 coronary artery disease patients , st segment depression developed early ( less than or equal to 6 minutes ) during exercise ; this was associated with a short recovery ( less than or equal to 3 minutes ) in 17 ( 40 % ) and with a long recovery ( greater than 3 minutes ) in 25 ( 60 % ) patients . in 17 patients with syndrome x , st segment depression developed early ; it was associated with a short recovery in six ( 35 % ) and with a long recovery in 11 ( 65 % ) patients . late ( greater than 6 minutes ) onset of st segment depression was observed in 12 coronary artery disease patients ; of these , eight ( 67 % ) had a short recovery and 4 ( 33 % ) had a long recovery . late onset of st segment depression occurred in eight patients with syndrome x ; six ( 75 % ) had a short recovery and two ( 25 % ) had a long recovery . 
prolongation of ventricular refractoriness by class ia antiarrhythmic drugs in the prevention of ventricular tachycardia induction . the effects of class la antiarrhythmic drugs ( procainamide , quinidine ) on the right ventricular effective refractory period ( verp ) and intraventricular conduction time were assessed during serial invasive electrophysiologic studies for sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) . in 47 patients with remote myocardial infarction , sustained vt was inducible by up to two extrastimuli after the basic drive at one of two basic cycle lengths at the right ventricular apex . with oral drug administration , sustained vt was no longer inducible ( group i ) in 27 patients but remained inducible ( group ii ) in 20 with the same protocol . class la drugs prolonged the verp in both groups , but there was greater lengthening when drugs were effective ( e.g. , +32 + / - 14 msec in group i vs +12 + / - 19 msec in group ii ; p less than 0.005 , basic cycle length 600 to 700 msec ) . prolongation of the verp by greater than 30 msec had an 88 % positive predictive value for prevention of sustained vt induction . in all except one patient in group i , drugs prolonged the verp such that the coupling intervals that had resulted in sustained vt induction under control conditions were no longer attainable . in contrast , conduction time through the ventricle ( surface qrs duration ) in sinus rhythm and during right ventricular pacing was prolonged similarly regardless of efficacy ( e.g. , +33 + / - 21 msec vs +27 + / - 27 msec at a cycle length of 400 msec ) . the presence of similar plasma levels of drug did not imply equivalent prolongation of the verp in the two groups . these results suggest that greater prolongation of the verp by oral procainamide or quinidine correlates with drug efficacy against vt induction and is a better predictor of drug effect than achievement of a " therapeutic plasma level . " . 
residual atrial septal perforation after percutaneous transvenous mitral commissurotomy with inoue balloon catheter . to estimate the incidence of residual atrial septal perforation ( asp ) following percutaneous transvenous mitral commissurotomy ( ptmc ) with the inoue balloon catheter and to examine the factors contributing to asp , we studied 46 patients with mitral stenosis undergoing ptmc . residual asp was evaluated by doppler color flow imaging 1 day after ptmc , and was detected in 7 out of 46 patients ( 15.2 % ) . we examined the relationship between the development of asp ( asp + ) and the age of the patient , the left atrial dimension before ptmc , the mean pressure difference between left and right atrium after ptmc , and the duration of the procedure from atrial septal puncture by the brockenbrough method to balloon inflation . there was a good correlation between the development of residual asp and the duration of the procedure ( asp + , 51.0 + / - 34.0 minutes ; without asp , 24.6 + / - 16.2 minutes ; p less than 0.01 ) . however , there was no significant correlation between the development of asp and other factors . in the follow-up study , asp disappeared in four patients within 3 months . asp persisted in two patients for 1 year after ptmc . however , the shunt in these two patients was clinically insignificant . these data suggest that residual asp may depend on the duration of the procedure , and that most cases of asp disappear within 1 year after ptmc . 
results of repeat percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty for pulmonary valvar restenosis . follow-up cardiac catheterization studies were used to evaluate 105 patients who had undergone percutaneous balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty . fifteen of those patients who had peak systolic pulmonary valve gradients greater than = 40 mm hg at follow-up underwent repeat balloon valvuloplasty . for the initial balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty , the mean ratio of the balloon diameter to pulmonary valve annulus diameter was 0.98 + / - 0.2 ; at repeat valvuloplasty the mean was 1.19 + / - 0.12 . the immediate post-repeat balloon valvuloplasty results showed a reduction in the peak systolic gradient from a mean of 70.2 + / - 17.8 to 29.1 + / - 19.0 mm hg ( p less than 0.001 ) . this reduction in the gradient was maintained at a mean of 14.3 + / - 5.0 mm hg in 8 of the 10 patients who underwent further follow-up studies . we conclude that successful repeat balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty with the use of larger sized balloons is feasible in patients who have restenosis after the initial percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty -- including partial but not complete dysplasia of the pulmonary valve . 
noninvasive discrimination of right atrial ectopic tachycardia from sinus tachycardia in " dilated cardiomyopathy " . right atrial ectopic tachycardia ( raet ) with secondary cardiac dysfunction can be difficult to differentiate from primary dilated cardiomyopathy ( cmp ) with sinus tachycardia . in an attempt to separate raet from cmp by noninvasive testing , routine surface electrocardiograms ( eggs ) , 24-hour ambulatory ecgs ( holter monitors ) , and echocardiograms of patients with raet ( n = 34 ) and cmp ( n = 33 ) were reviewed . raet atrial rates were significantly faster than cmp rates on the resting ecg and on holter monitoring ; 12 of 33 patients with raet had resting ecg rates greater than 150 % of predicted normal values for age but none of 32 patients with cmps had resting ecg rates in this range . mean p wave axis in the horizontal plane was more posterior in patients with raet and was less than 0 degrees ( negative in lead v2 ) in 8 of 29 patients with raet but in 1 of 33 patients with cmp . second-degree atrioventricular ( av ) block was observed in 12 of 33 patients with raet but in none of 33 with cmp . shortening fraction less than 10 % was found in 13 of 33 individuals with cmp but in only 1 of 27 with raet . we conclude that noninvasive studies can help identify raet among patients with poor functioning hearts and right atrial tachycardia . 
left ventricular end-systolic stress-volume index ratio in aortic and mitral regurgitation with normal ejection fraction . to evaluate the left ventricular contractile state in regurgitant valvular disease with normal ejection fraction , we analyzed the end-systolic stress-volume index relationship ( essvr ) by means of cineangiography in 15 normal subjects , 11 patients with aortic regurgitation ( ar ) , and 10 patients with mitral regurgitation ( mr ) whose ejection fraction ( ef ) was 60 % or more . the end-systolic stress-volume index ratio in normal subjects was 5.57 + / - 0.60 kdyne/cm5/m2 ( mean + / - standard deviation ) , and we defined the range including + / - 2 standard deviations of the ratio as the normal essvr range . six patients with ar and five patients with mr placed inside the normal essvr range , termed ar in and mr in , but the remaining five patients with ar and mr placed to the right of the normal range , termed ar out and mr out . ef did not differ between patients with ar in and ar out ( 69.4 + / - 5.4 verus 70.7 + / - 6.1 % ) and between mr in and mr out ( 71.6 + / - 3.6 versus 71.1 + / - 7.9 % ) . the ef of the subdivided groups with ar and mr also did not differ from that of normal subjects ( 70.7 + / - 7.3 % ) . this finding showed that the left ventricular contractile state was depressed in patients with ar out and mr out despite a normal ef . in ar and mr the end-systolic stress and end-systolic volume index of out did not differ from those of in , but the end-diastolic volume index of out was larger than that of in ( ar out 156.8 + / - 27.9 versus ar in 110.8 + / - 24.1 ml/m2 , mr out 160.5 + / - 44.7 versus mr in 101.0 + / 16.6 ml/m2 ; both p less than 0.05 ) , and the regurgitant fraction of out was higher than that of in ( ar out 52.6 + / - 13.6 versus ar in 29.7 + / - 13.3 % , mr out 52.9 + / - 10.2 versus mr in 30.2 + / - 11.4 % ; both p less than 0.05 ) . in addition , there was a linear inverse correlation between the end-systolic stress-volume index ratio and the end-diastolic volume index in all subjects ( r = -0.82 , n = 36 ) . in normal subjects there was a linear inverse correlation between end-systolic stress and the ef ( r = -0.91 , n = 15 ) , but this relationship failed to separate patients with out from those with in . results of the present study suggest that some patients with ar and mr whose ef was normal had a depressed contractile state , and these patients had a large end-diastolic volume index and a high regurgitant fraction . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
maximal oxygen uptake in severe aortic regurgitation : a different view of left ventricular function . respiratory gas exchange was used to assess left ventricular ( lv ) function in 22 patients with severe aortic regurgitation ( 19 men and three women , aged 18 and 70 years , mean 49 years ) . anaerobic threshold and symptom-limited maximal oxygen consumption ( vo2 max ) were measured during treadmill exercise , and the results were compared with conventional echocardiographic and radionuclide indices of lv systolic function . the results were considered with respect to the patients ' new york heart association functional class . both rest and exercise lv ejection fractions were variable , but the mean results were similar in all classes . the echocardiographic indices of lv cavity dimensions , fractional shortening , radius/thickness ratio , and systolic wall stress also showed a wide range but with similar mean results in each class . in contrast , vo2 max and anaerobic threshold showed a relationship to functional class . vo2 max was 32.4 + / - 3.4 ml/kg/min in age-matched control subjects ; in the patients it was 27.9 + / - 4.7 in class i , 24.7 + / - 5.7 in class ii , and 14.2 + / - 2 in the combined class iii/iv . results in patients in classes i and ii were similar , but both groups were significantly different from control subjects ( p less than 0.05 ) and from patients in class iii/iv ( p less than 0.01 ) . about half of the patients with moderate lv dysfunction ( judged by reduced vo2 max ) were asymptomatic , and lv function was impaired in 4 of 10 patients in class i. thus , unlike conventional indices of lv function , vo2 max appeared capable of distinguishing patients with moderate-to-severe lv dysfunction from those with little or no lv dysfunction . measurement of respiratory gas exchange appears to be a valid and useful supplementary means of assessing lv function in severe aortic regurgitation . further long-term evaluation is required . 
contribution of transesophageal echocardiography to patient diagnosis and treatment : a prospective analysis . the capability of transesophageal ( tee ) versus transthoracic ( tte ) echocardiography as a diagnostic tool in clinical practice was prospectively examined in 86 consecutive cases . a conclusive diagnosis was possible in 95 % with tee , whereas the same result was achieved in 48 % by tte . specifically , tee provided a conclusive diagnosis in 14 of 16 cases of infective endocarditis , while tte gave this result in 4 of the 16 cases ( p less than 0.001 ) . similarly , tee allowed a conclusive diagnosis in 11 of 11 instances of aortic dissection , while tte gave this indication in two cases ( p less than 0.001 ) . tee was similarly effective in eight of eight cases of atrial thrombi , whereas tte gave the diagnosis in three of eight cases ( p less than 0.01 ) . in five subjects with intracardiac masses , tee gave a conclusive diagnosis in all five , whereas tte was able to diagnose conclusively in one subject ( p less than 0.02 ) . in seven patients with mitral regurgitation , tee gave the conclusive diagnosis in all seven and tte was able to provide this information in four ( p = ns ) . tee was able to provide a conclusive diagnosis in four patients with aortic insufficiency , and tte gave the same information in two of the four ( p = ns ) . in 14 patients with prosthetic valve dysfunction , tee gave the diagnosis in 12 and tte gave it in eight patients ( p = ns ) . both methods gave a conclusive diagnosis in 13 out of 13 cases of mitral stenosis ( p = ns ) . also , tee provided a conclusive diagnosis in eight of eight patients with adult congenital heart disease and tte gave this information in four ( p = ns ) . 
left ventricular mass regression after aortic valve replacement measured by ultrafast computed tomography . left ventricular mass and function were measured using ultrafast computed tomography , and were correlated with clinical status in 17 patients with aortic stenosis and/or insufficiency undergoing aortic valve replacement or balloon valvuloplasty . wall mass was 159 + / - 38 gm/m2 initially , decreased 25 % to 116 + / - 29 gm/m2 at 4 month ( p less than 0.001 ) , and decreased a total of 34 % to 105 + / - 33 gm/m2 at 8 months after valve repair . by 8 months not only was the mean wall mass within the normal range , but only three patients retained abnormal hypertrophy . ejection fraction increased 8 % ( p = 0.06 ) . clinical function improved in all patients , with only three patients remaining outside of new york heart association functional class 1 at 8 months . regression of ventricular mass into the normal range correlated with attainment of class 1 functional status ( p less than 0.02 ) , despite a lack of increase of ejection fraction . the single patient followed for 8 months after valvuloplasty had minor wall mass regression and minor clinical improvement . 
hypertensive heart disease : relationship of silent ischemia to coronary artery disease and left ventricular hypertrophy . ecg evidence of silent ischemia occurs commonly in patients with systemic hypertension , but its relationship to left ventricular hypertrophy ( lvh ) , large-vessel coronary artery disease ( cad ) , and neurohumoral factors remains unclear . accordingly we validated the results of the echocardiographic method used to measure left ventricular ( lv ) mass in the soviet union by comparison with necropsy measurements in 30 patients , and we examined the relationships in 46 men with essential hypertension among st segment depression during ambulatory monitoring , exercise stress and transesophageal pacing ( n = 38 ) , and lv mass , catheterization evidence of cad ( n = 25 ) , and neurohumoral factors ( plasma catecholamines and platelet aggregability ) . echocardiographic measurements of lv mass by both the soviet and penn methods were closely correlated with necropsy values ( r = 0.78 and 90 , respectively ; both p less than 0.001 ) . during ambulatory monitoring from 1 to 17 episodes of greater than or equal to 1 mm st depression occurred in 26 of 46 ( 65 % ) patients with hypertension ; ischemia was also provoked by exercise or pacing stress in most but not all of these patients ( 65 % and 80 % , respectively ) . neither st depression nor the occurrence of additional episodes of symptomatic angina was related to the presence of coronary obstruction at catheterization ; patients with and without st depression did not differ in age , blood pressure , or lv mass . 
parental history is an independent risk factor for coronary artery disease : the framingham study . family history of cad , defined as parental death by cad , was found to be a significant independent predictor of cad in a logistic regression model controlling for standard risk factors and length of follow-up among the 5209 participants in the framingham study . persons with a positive parental history have a 29 % increased risk of cad , and the strength of the association between parental history and cad is similar to that found for other standard risk factors such as systolic blood pressure , cholesterol level , and cigarette smoking . no evidence was found that persons with a family history of cad have a decreased capacity to cope with the deleterious effects of known risk factors ; that is , no significant interaction was found between any of the risk factors and parental history of cad . among men with low risk for cad by risk-factor profile ( i.e. , nonsmoking , thin , nonhypertensive persons ) , more than two thirds of those who experience cad have a positive parental history . this study suggests that cad among persons who are predicted to be at low risk by standard risk factors may have a substantial genetic component and that the risk associated with parental history may not be reduced by modification of these factors . nevertheless , among persons with a positive family history , those with a favorable risk profile are at substantially less risk for cad than those with an unfavorable risk profile . 
frequency of low-grade residual coronary stenosis after thrombolysis during acute myocardial infarction . the clinical , angiographic and demographic characteristics of 42 patients with low-grade ( less than 50 % ) residual stenosis at the infarct lesion after thrombolysis for acute myocardial infarction ( mi ) were assessed . the study group ( group i ) represented 21 % of 198 consecutive patients receiving thrombolytic therapy over a 59-month period . data on the 156 remaining patients were pooled for comparison ( group ii ) . group i patients were predominantly men ( 86 % ) who were cigarette smokers ( 81 % ) . group ii patients were predominantly men ( 75 % , p greater than 0.10 ) but were significantly older ( 52 + / - 12 vs 56 + / - 10 years , p = 0.02 ) . prior acute mi or angina was unusual in group i. sixty percent had no significant ( greater than 50 % ) residual coronary artery disease while 25 % had residual single artery disease . average significant ( greater than 50 % diameter stenosis ) residual vessel disease was 0.6 + / - 1.0 for group i and 1.9 + / - 0.9 for group ii ( p less than 0.001 ) . in group i , average residual infarct lesion diameter stenosis was 36 + / - 7 % in the right anterior oblique and 34 + / - 8 % in the left anterior oblique views . thirty-nine group i patients were discharged with medical therapy and 100 % follow-up was obtained over a mean interval of 18 + / - 17 months . fifteen patients experienced chest pain after acute mi accounting for 17 discrete events . fifty-nine percent of group i had a benign course on follow-up . eight events were classified as unstable angina , 4 as acute mi and 5 as atypical angina . documented coronary vasospasm occurred in 3 . 
effect of verapamil on mortality and major events after acute myocardial infarction ( the danish verapamil infarction trial ii -- davit ii ) the effect of verapamil on death and major events ( i.e. , death or reinfarction ) after an acute myocardial infarction was studied in a double-blind , randomized , placebo-controlled multicenter trial . eight hundred seventy-eight patients started treatment with verapamil , 360 mg/day , and 897 patients with placebo . treatment started in the second week after admission and continued for up to 18 months ( mean 16 months ) . ninety-five deaths and 146 major events occurred in the verapamil group and 119 deaths and 180 major events in the placebo group . the 18-month mortality rates were 11.1 and 13.8 % ( p = 0.11 , hazard ratio , 0.80 ; 95 % confidence limits , 0.61 to 1.05 ) , and major event rates 18.0 and 21.6 % ( p = 0.03 , hazard ratio , 0.80 ; 95 % confidence limits , 0.64 to 0.99 ) in the verapamil and placebo groups , respectively . in patients without heart failure in the coronary care unit the mortality rates were 7.7 % in the verapamil group and 11.8 % in the placebo group ( p = 0.02 , hazard ratio , 0.64 ; 95 % confidence limits , 0.44 to 0.94 ) , and major event rates 14.6 and 19.7 % ( p = 0.01 , hazard ratio 0.70 ; 95 % confidence limits ( 0.52 to 0.93 ) . in patients with heart failure the mortality rates were 17.9 and 17.5 % ( p = 0.79 , hazard ratio , 1.05 ; 95 % confidence limits , 0.72 to 1.54 ) , and major event rates 24.9 and 24.9 % ( p = 1.0 , hazard ratio 0.98 ; 95 % confidence limits 0.72 to 1.39 ) . long-term treatment with verapamil after an acute myocardial infarction caused a significant reduction in major events , and the positive effect was found in patients without heart failure . 
impact of field-transmitted electrocardiography on time to in-hospital thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction . to assess the impact of a field-transmitted electrocardiogram ( ecg ) on patients with possible acute myocardial infarction , randomized and open trials were performed with a portable electrocardiographic system coupled with a cellular phone programmed to automatically transmit ecgs to the base hospital . consecutive patients served by the 6 units of the salt lake city emergency rescue system were studied ; 71 patients were randomized to in-field ecg ( n = 34 ) versus no ecg ( n = 37 ) . time on scene was 16.4 + / - 9.7 minutes for the ecg group versus 16.1 + / - 7.0 minutes for the non ecg group ( difference not significant ) . time of transport averaged 18.2 + / - 9.9 and 17.6 + / - 13.1 minutes , respectively ( difference not significant ) . six of 34 patients with in-field ecg showed acute myocardial infarction , qualified for and received thrombolytic therapy at 48 + / - 12 minutes after hospital arrival ( range 30 to 60 ) compared with 103 + / - 44 minutes ( p less than 0.01 ) for 51 historical control patients and 68 + / - 29 minutes for 6 concurrent control patients without in-field ecg . thus , in-field ecg causes negligible delays in paramedic time , leads to significant decreases in time to in-hospital thrombolysis and may make in-field therapy feasible . in-field ecg may be an important addition to reperfusion strategies . 
sensitivity of a set of myocardial infarction screening criteria in patients with anatomically documented single and multiple infarcts . a subset of 3 screening criteria ( q wave greater than or equal to 30 ms in lead avf , any q or r wave less than or equal to 10 ms and less than or equal to 0.1 mv in lead v2 , and r wave greater than or equal to 40 ms in v1 ) has been proposed to identify single nonacute myocardial infarcts . cumulatively , these 3 criteria achieved 95 % specificity , and 84 and 77 % sensitivities for inferior and anterior myocardial infarcts , respectively , among patients identified by coronary angiography and left ventriculography . this study establishes the true sensitivities of the set of screening criteria in 71 patients with anatomically proven single myocardial infarcts and 32 patients with multiple myocardial infarcts . in the single inferior infarct group , the avf criterion was 90 % sensitive . the v2 criterion ( any q or r wave less than or equal to 10 ms and less than or equal to 0.1 mv ) was 67 % sensitive in the single anterior infarct group . no single criterion proved sensitive in identifying a posterolateral infarct . the set of screening criteria performed just as well for multiple infarcts as it did for single infarcts , with a cumulative sensitivity of 72 % . the overall sensitivity of the screening set in the 103 patients in all groups was 71 % . 
two-year outcome after angiographically documented myocardial reperfusion for acute coronary occlusion . thrombolysis and angioplasty study group . reperfusion therapy has been clearly shown to decrease the early mortality after acute myocardial infarction , but the impact of this therapy on long-term survival has been less extensively evaluated . this study reports the extended follow-up of a large cohort of 810 patients treated with intravenous thrombolytic therapy combined , when considered necessary to maintain or augment infarct vessel patency , with mechanical reperfusion therapies . each patient underwent coronary angiography within 2 hours of the initiation of the thrombolytic infusion . coronary angioplasty was performed in 62 % of the patients before hospital discharge and 21 % underwent coronary artery bypass graft surgery . follow-up was obtained in 96 % to a mean of 18.8 months ( range , 1.5 to 48 months ) . all-cause mortality over this period was 3.3 % ; 2.1 % died from cardiac causes . nonfatal reinfarction occurred in 5.1 % . although the low event rate limits the validity of statistical comparisons , the patients who survived the follow-up period tended to be younger ( 56 + / - 10 vs 65 + / - 7 years ) , to have better predischarge left ventricular function ( left ventricular ejection fraction , 52 + / - 11 vs 46 + / - 13 % ) and to have a lower prevalence of multivessel coronary artery disease ( 45 vs 67 % ) . this excellent long-term survival may , in part , reflect the exclusion of high-risk patients from enrollment in the thrombolysis and angioplasty in myocardial infarction ( tami ) studies . it may also be attributable , however , to the frequent use of combined thrombolysis and mechanical revascularization in this population . 
functional significance of myocardial perfusion defects induced by dipyridamole using thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography and two-dimensional echocardiography . the mechanisms responsible for inhomogeneous myocardial blood flow after oral administration of a large dose ( 300 mg ) of dipyridamole were assessed in 27 patients with serial thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography ( spect ) and simultaneous 2-dimensional echocardiograms . myocardial tomographic images were obtained 50 minutes and 3 to 4 hours after administration of dipyridamole . two-dimensional echocardiograms were recorded at baseline and then every 15 minutes for 60 minutes . dipyridamole caused only a mild reduction in blood pressure ( from 129 + / - 18 to 126 + / - 16 mm hg ) and a mild increase in heart rate ( from 69 + / - 15 to 73 + / - 4 beats/min ) . sixteen patients had perfusion defects after dipyridamole by spect , which underwent partial or total filling-in . fourteen of these patients ( 87.5 % ) had either a new abnormality or further deterioration of a preexisting wall motion abnormality by 2-dimensional echocardiography , and thus were considered to have developed transient ischemia during dipyridamole administration . ten of 11 patients ( 91 % ) with normal perfusion or fixed defects by spect had no further deterioration in wall motion after oral dipyridamole , and were thus considered to have no evidence of myocardial ischemia . in conclusion , most patients with transient thallium-201 defects after dipyridamole develop transient worsening of resting wall motion by 2-dimensional echocardiography , suggestive of true myocardial ischemia . because myocardial oxygen demand , as indicated by the heart rate-blood pressure product , did not change significantly , the mechanism of myocardial ischemia in these patients is likely to be diminished regional blood flow related to a " subendocardial steal " induced by dipyridamole . 
left ventricular dilatation and pulmonary thallium uptake after single-photon emission computer tomography using thallium-201 during adenosine-induced coronary hyperemia . this study examined the implications of left ventricular ( lv ) dilatation and increased pulmonary thallium uptake during adenosine-induced coronary hyperemia . the lung-to-heart thallium ratio in the initial images was significantly higher in patients with coronary artery disease ( cad ) than normal subjects ; 0.48 + / - 0.16 in 3-vessel disease ( n = 16 ) , 0.43 + / - 0.10 in 2-vessel disease ( n = 20 ) , 0.43 + / - 0.08 in 1-vessel disease ( n = 16 ) and 0.36 + / - 0.05 in normal subjects ( n = 7 ) ( p less than 0.001 , 0.09 and 0.06 , respectively ) . there was a significant correlation between the severity and the extent of the perfusion abnormality ( determined from the polar maps ) and the lung-to-heart thallium ratio ( r = 0.51 and 0.52 , respectively , p less than 0.0002 ) . there was also a significant correlation between lung thallium washout and lung-to-heart thallium ratio ( r = 0.42 , p = 0.0009 ) and peak heart rate ( r = -0.49 , p less than 0.0001 ) . the lv dilatation was mostly due to an increase in cavity dimension ( 30 % increase ) and to a lesser extent ( 6 % increase ) due to increase in lv size . ( the cavity dimensions were measured from the short-axis slices at the midventricular level in the initial and delayed images ) . the dilation was seen in patients with cad but not in the normal subjects . these changes correlated with the extent and severity of the thallium perfusion abnormality . thus , adenosine-induced coronary hyperemia may cause lv dilation and increased lung thallium uptake on the basis of subendocardial ischemia . 
effects of bepridil and diltiazem on ventricular repolarization in angina pectoris . to examine the time-course and potential predictors of prolongation of ventricular repolarization with the calcium antagonist bepridil , the effects of bepridil ( 300 to 500 mg/day ; n = 45 ) and diltiazem ( 180 to 300 mg/day ; n = 42 ) on qt and qtc interval duration were analyzed in a randomized double-blind study in patients with angina pectoris . electrocardiograms were recorded before and 14 , 28 , 70 and 112 days after treatment was begun . after 14 days , bepridil prolonged qt interval by 26 + / - 35 ms ( range , -60 to 120 ms ) and qtc ( bazett 's formula ) by 17 + / - 33 ms ( range , -73 to 107 ms ) compared to baseline ( both p less than 0.05 ) . qt or qtc did not significantly increase thereafter . however , among the 30 patients who had less than 40 ms qtc prolongation at day 14 compared with baseline , 13 ( 43 % ) exceeded this limit on at least 1 of the following visits . diltiazem did not significantly alter qt or qtc intervals . the absolute change in qtc interval from baseline observed after 14 days of bepridil therapy was inversely proportional to the baseline qtc interval ( r = -0.68 ; n = 42 ; p less than 0.001 ) . the degree of bepridil-induced qtc prolongation on day 14 correlated with pretreatment rr interval ( r = 0.36 ; n = 42 ; p less than 0.02 ) . in conclusion , chronic administration of bepridil but not of diltiazem prolongs ventricular repolarization in patients with angina pectoris . the overall effects of bepridil therapy on qt and qtc intervals can be assessed by an electrocardiogram recorded after 14 days of treatment but subsequent measurements may be required in individual patients . a short baseline qtc interval and a slow initial heart rate may be potentially useful predictors of a greater qtc prolongation with bepridil . 
effects of intravenous verapamil on left ventricular relaxation and filling in stable angina pectoris . left ventricular ( lv ) diastolic function is often impaired in coronary artery disease ( cad ) . to assess whether verapamil could improve lv diastolic properties , 12 patients with cad undergoing right - and left-sided cardiac catheterization , as well as simultaneous radionuclide angiography , were studied before and during intravenous administration of verapamil ( 0.1 mg/kg as a bolus followed by 0.007 mg/kg/min ) . the heart rate was kept constant by atrial pacing in both studies . lv pressure-volume relations were obtained . verapamil decreased lv systolic pressure ( 130 + / - 22 to 117 + / - 16 mm hg , p less than 0.01 ) and the end-systolic pressure/volume ratio ( 2.4 + / - 1.3 to 1.6 + / - 0.5 mm hg/ml , p less than 0.05 ) , and increased lv end-diastolic ( 13 + / - 4 to 16 + / - 4 mm hg , p less than 0.02 ) and pulmonary capillary pressures ( 10 + / - 5 to 12 + / - 5 mm hg , p less than 0.005 ) . despite such negative inotropic effects , cardiac index increased ( 3.4 + / - 0.7 to 3.9 + / - 0.6 liters/min/m2 , p less than 0.02 ) . the time constant of isovolumic relaxation shortened ( 63 + / - 14 to 47 + / - 9 ms , p less than 0.02 ) ; peak filling rate increased ( 370 + / - 155 to 519 + / - 184 ml/s , p less than 0.001 ; 2.6 + / - 1.1 to 3.3 + / - 0.9 end-diastolic counts/s , p less than 0.02 ; and 4.1 + / - 1.6 to 5.5 + / - 1.5 stroke counts/s , p less than 0.001 ) . 
analysis of programmed stimulation methods in the evaluation of ventricular arrhythmias in patients 20 years old and younger . the purpose of this study was to systematically evaluate programmed ventricular stimulation in patients less than 21 years of age undergoing electrophysiologic testing . a standardized protocol was applied in 55 consecutive patients ( mean age 14 years ) with the following clinical presentations : sustained ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) ( n = 17 ) ; ventricular fibrillation ( vf ) ( n = 7 ) ; syncope with heart disease ( n = 10 ) ; nonsustained vt ( n = 6 ) ; and syncope with an ostensibly normal heart ( n = 15 ) . the stimulation protocol consisted of 1 and 2 ventricular extrastimuli during sinus rhythm , followed by 1 to 4 ( s2 , s3 , s4 , s5 ) extrastimuli during pacing at 2 ventricular sites . of the 17 patients with sustained vt , 12 had induction of the arrhythmia ( sensitivity = 71 % ) . overall , 18 of 55 patients had inducible sustained vt , with this response significantly enhanced by use of s4 or s5 protocols ( p = 0.02 ) . although no syncope patients with an ostensibly normal heart had inducible sustained vt , 7 had polymorphic nonsustained vt in response to ventricular stimulation . the mean number of extra-stimuli preceding the induction of nonsustained or sustained vt or vf did not differ . the induction of vf in 5 cases during this study was preceded in each case by extrastimuli intervals less than or equal to 190 ms. thus , data indicate that aggressive stimulation protocols appear to be required for induction of sustained vt in most young patients , nonsustained polymorphic vt as a response to aggressive programmed stimulation is of uncertain significance , and that coupling intervals less than or equal to 190 ms may correlate with the induction of vf . 
long-term follow-up in patients with incessant ventricular tachycardia . seventeen patients with coronary artery disease , idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy or no organic heart disease who presented with incessant ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) were studied and followed for a mean period of 51 + / - 35 months . in these patients the incessant vt included greater than or equal to 3 episodes of sustained vt at a rate of greater than or equal to 120 beats/min and frequent episodes of nonsustained vt over a 24-hour period . no patient had electrolyte disorder , prolonged qt interval , drug-induced arrhythmia or myocardial infarction less than 2 weeks old . six patients died within 27 months of follow-up ; 4 from sudden death and 2 from acute myocardial infarction . three of the 11 surviving patients had remission of their vt within 1 week after the diagnosis of incessant vt . in 3 other patients in whom antiarrhythmic drugs were discontinued during follow-up because of adverse effects of the drugs or other medical reasons , 2 were found in remission . in the remaining 5 alive patients , deliberate attempts were made to discontinue the antiarrhythmic drugs ; 4 of these patients were found in remission when the drugs were discontinued . thus , 9 of these patients ( 53 % ) with incessant vt had remission over a mean follow-up of 55 + / - 34 months after discontinuation of the antiarrhythmic drugs . the probability of remission in patients surviving incessant vt warrants trials of discontinuation of antiarrhythmic drugs in these patients . 
effects of metoprolol on rest and exercise cardiac function and plasma catecholamines in chronic congestive heart failure secondary to ischemic or idiopathic cardiomyopathy . to define the effects of 2 months of metoprolol therapy on cardiac function , aerobic performance and sympathetic nervous system activity , metoprolol ( 75 to 100 mg/day ) was administered to 10 patients with chronic congestive heart failure ( chf ) . metoprolol was discontinued in 2 patients because of worsening chf . in the remaining 8 patients , peak oxygen uptake increased significantly ( 14.8 + / - 3.0 to 16.1 + / - 2.5 ml/kg/min , p less than 0.05 ) as did the oxygen pulse ( 9.0 + / - 2.2 to 12.6 + / - 1.8 ml/beat , p less than 0.02 ) . resting heart rate ( 87 + / - 18 to 62 + / - 9 beats/min , p less than 0.05 ) and peak exercise heart rate ( 133 + / - 13 to 105 + / - 30 beats/min , p less than 0.02 ) were both reduced . mean resting ejection fraction increased from 0.15 + / - 0.06 to 0.25 + / - 0.11 and peak exercise ejection fraction also tended to increase ( 0.19 + / - 0.11 to 0.28 + / - 0.15 , difference not significant ) . both resting plasma norepinephrine ( 613 + / - 706 to 303 + / - 142 pg/ml , p less than 0.05 ) and epinephrine ( 71 + / - 50 to 40 + / - 21 pg/ml , p less than 0.05 ) were reduced . circulating lymphocyte beta-adrenergic receptor number was unchanged ( 1,334 + / - 292 to 1,344 + / - 456 receptors/cell , difference not significant ) . it is concluded that metoprolol therapy is associated with improvements in rest and exercise ventricular performance and maximal aerobic capacity . these improvements are associated with a decline in resting sympathetic nervous system activity . 
renal effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition in congestive heart failure . some studies report that inhibition of angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) improves renal function in patients with congestive heart failure , whereas others report that renal deterioration is a frequent complication of treatment with ace inhibitors . this article explores the mechanisms by which antagonism of the renin-angiotensin system improves kidney function in some patients while causing harm in others . ace inhibition may alter renal blood flow , glomerular perfusion pressure , basement membrane activity and renal tubular function both directly and indirectly . in most patients , renal function is maintained as other neurohormonal mechanisms compensate for the negative effects and permit the positive effects ( such as improved renal flow ) to predominate . however , when physiologic characteristics or iatrogenic interventions ( such as volume reduction or prostaglandin inhibition ) limit the effectiveness of neurohormonal compensation to maintain renal autoregulation , clinically important deterioration in renal function may occur . an understanding of the renal effects of ace inhibitors permits their safe and effective use in most patients with congestive heart failure . 
mechanisms in heart failure and the role of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition . the four major diagnostic criteria for the syndrome of congestive heart failure are left ventricular dysfunction , exercise intolerance , pulmonary congestion or edema and ventricular arrhythmias . activation of norepinephrine , angiotensin ii , vasopressin and atrial natriuretic peptide may be a key factor in the vasoconstriction and increased impedance to left ventricular ejection in heart failure . interventions that interfere with these vasoconstrictor mechanisms should have a salutary effect on left ventricular performance . treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitors , alpha-adrenoceptor blockers and vasopressin antagonists has resulted in hemodynamic benefits , but it has been more difficult to demonstrate long-term clinical effectiveness . reductions in mortality have been demonstrated in patients with heart failure treated with vasodilators and ace inhibitors . improvement in the quality of life and prolongation of life are the only two appropriate goals in the management of heart failure . further understanding of the role of angiotensin ii and its interference by ace inhibition in the tissue processes of heart failure is needed . 
potential role of the tissue renin-angiotensin system in the pathophysiology of congestive heart failure . the circulating renin-angiotensin system ( ras ) plays an important role in the maintenance of cardiovascular homeostasis . it has recently been demonstrated that endogenous ras exist in target tissues that are important in cardiovascular regulation . this article reviews the multiple effects of angiotensin ii in target tissues , the evidence for the presence of functional tissue ras and the data that suggest a role for these tissue ras in the pathophysiology of heart failure . activation of circulating neurohormones is predictive of worsened survival in heart failure ; however , cardiac and renal tissue ras activities are also increased in the compensated stage of heart failure , when plasma renin-angiotensin activity is normal . it is hypothesized that the plasma ras maintains circulatory homeostasis during acute cardiac decompensation , while changes in tissue ras contribute to homeostatic responses during chronic sustained cardiac impairment . this concept of different functions of circulating and tissue ras in the pathophysiology of heart failure may have important pharmacologic implications . 
neuroendocrine activity in congestive heart failure . the increased neuroendocrine activity in patients with congestive heart failure appears to be a generalized attempt to maintain blood pressure at the expense of reduced cardiac performance and salt and water retention . it is likely that baroreceptor dysfunction contributes to increased sympathetic nervous system activity in patients with congestive heart failure . the usual tonic inhibitory messages emanating from baro - and mechanoreceptors in the great vessels and heart fail to adjust sympathetic traffic from the brain to the periphery , leading to uninhibited sympathetic tone . arginine vasopressin and plasma renin activity may be increased secondarily ; however , plasma renin activity activation could also be induced by a low-salt diet and diuretic use . preliminary baseline data indicate that patients with left ventricular dysfunction ( ejection fraction less than or equal to 35 % ) but no or very mild symptoms of heart failure have increased plasma levels of norepinephrine , atrial natriuretic factor and arginine vasopressin , while plasma renin activity is normal , suggesting that neuroendocrine activity contributes to the pathogenesis of congestive heart failure . neurohormones such as angiotensin ii may alter gene expression , leading to changes in the shape and size of the cell . remodeling of the heart and blood vessels is associated with both heart failure and hypertension . angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors have been demonstrated to retard or reverse the remodeling process under certain experimental conditions . studies are currently under way to test this possibility in patients . 
effects of enalapril and neuroendocrine activation on prognosis in severe congestive heart failure ( follow-up of the consensus trial ) . consensus trial study group . this study enrolled 253 patients with severe heart failure ( new york heart association functional class iv ) from 35 centers in scandinavia , randomly assigned to treatment with placebo or enalapril , in addition to their usual treatment for heart failure . after an initial titration period , the daily doses of enalapril ranged from 2.5 to 40 mg . at the end of the trial , 46 % of the placebo-treated patients and 61 % of the enalapril-treated patients were alive ( p = 0.003 ) ; the survival figures at 8 months after completion of the trial were 32 and 48 % , respectively ( p = 0.001 ) ; and 21 and 30 % , respectively ( p = 0.006 ) at the 2-year follow-up . in the placebo group , there was a significant positive association between mortality and baseline levels of norepinephrine , epinephrine , angiotensin ii , aldosterone and atrial natriuretic peptide ; no such association was found in the enalapril-treated patients . the results suggest that the effects of enalapril on mortality are related to a counteraction of the neuroendocrine activation in general and to the renin-angiotensin system in particular . 
pharmacology of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors as a guide to their use in congestive heart failure . the pharmacokinetics of the angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitors are difficult to assess for several reasons . first , these compounds exert their influence by inhibiting an intermediary enzyme of a cascade of enzymatic events , whose rate-limiting enzyme ( renin ) is not directly affected by ace inhibition . second , renin and angiotensin i accumulate during ace inhibition and a change in the dose of an ace inhibitor could produce sudden shifts of angiotensin i to angiotensin ii . third , components of the circulating renin system require the interaction of several organ systems and effector sites . fourth , the kinetics of ace inhibitors can be influenced by the organ systems responsible for drug absorption , metabolism and excretion , and the functional status of these systems can be affected by the heart failure process . fifth , at least some portion of the cardiovascular effects of ace inhibitors is influenced by the contributions of other systems whose physiologic effects may be of importance in some patients with congestive heart failure . sixth , the potential impact of tissue-bound ace is not yet fully understood . finally , for appropriate drug dosing , the effects of aging on the heart failure process , the extent of renin system activity , and the disposition of ace inhibitors need to be considered . because of their complex pharmacokinetics , treatment with ace inhibitors has been guided by their pharmacodynamic and clinical characteristics . 
clinical and hemodynamic assessment of the hepatojugular reflux . the hepatojugular reflux ( hjr ) test was studied to assess the ability to clinically predict response during cardiac catheterization and to determine its significance in patients without heart failure and correlate it to their baseline hemodynamic parameters . sixty-five patients considered to be free of heart failure undergoing routine cardiac catheterization were enrolled . the hjr test , defined as the venous pressure response to sustained abdominal compression , was performed in a standardized manner at the bedside assessing change in internal jugular venous pressure and during right-sided cardiac catheterization measuring change in right atrial pressure . for comparison a sustained increase greater than or equal to 1 cm was considered positive . in 62 of 65 patients the hjr test stabilized by 15 seconds . the results during examination at the bedside agreed with those at catheterization ( k = 0.74 , p less than 0.001 ) . the hjr test result correlated best with baseline mean right atrial pressure ( r = 0.59 ) and right ventricular end-diastolic pressure ( r = 0.51 ) , and in bivariate regression analysis predicted right atrial ( f ( 1,63 ) = 32.8 , r2 = 0.34 , p less than 0.0001 ) and right ventricular end-diastolic ( f ( 1,63 ) = 22 , r2 = 0.26 , p less than 0.0001 ) pressures . a positive test had high sensitivity and specificity for predicting right atrial pressure greater than 9 mm hg ( 1.0 , 0.85 ) and right ventricular end-diastolic pressure greater than 12 mm hg ( 0.90 , 0.89 ) . it is concluded that 15 seconds is adequate for interpretation , and bedside observation predicts the response during right-sided cardiac catheterization . 
anatomic correlations of the long-axis views in biplane transesophageal echocardiography . the number of views obtainable during transesophageal echocardiography ( te ) has been limited by the fixed position of the transducer at the end of the probe . this has confined standard te studies to short-axis tomography of the heart and aorta . recently , a biplane te probe has become available that is capable of both long - and short-axis imaging . this study prospectively assessed the application of the long-axis plane of the biplane probe in providing complementary long-axis views in ambulatory patients . six standard long-axis views could be obtained and were compared with corresponding anatomic sections to illustrate anatomic relations and facilitate structure identification . the long-axis views provide a better appreciation of the 3-dimensional nature of cardiac anatomy and function , especially in demonstrating the relation of vertically aligned structures . 
transient left ventricular filling abnormalities ( diastolic stunning ) after acute myocardial infarction . a variety of experimental studies suggest that diastolic left ventricular ( lv ) function changes after acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) , but limited data exist on these changes in humans . to assess diastolic filling after ami , 60 patients underwent doppler echocardiographic examination within 24 hours of ami . of 54 patients who also underwent catheterization , 45 ( 83 % ) were successfully reperfused . a subgroup of 17 patients underwent a follow-up doppler examination at 7 days after infarction , whereas 15 patients with stable exertional angina served as control subjects . there was no significant difference in age , gender , incidence of systemic hypertension or diabetes mellitus , heart rate , mean arterial pressure or severity of coronary artery disease between the infarct and control groups . the infarct group had a lower velocity time integral total ( 9.9 + / - 0.4 cm vs 12.0 + / - 0.9 cm , p less than 0.001 ) , a lower velocity time integral e ( 5.8 + / - 0.3 cm vs 6.8 + / - 0.5 cm , p less than 0.01 ) and a lower velocity time integral 0.333 ( 3.5 + / - 0.4 cm vs 6.1 + / - 0.5 cm , p less than 0.01 ) than the control group . in addition , velocity time integral a/total was significantly greater in the infarction group ( 0.44 + / - 0.03 vs 0.35 + / - 0.04 , p less than 0.01 ) compared to the control group . the follow-up subgroup showed an increase in velocity time integral total ( p less than 0.01 ) , velocity time integral e ( p less than 0.05 ) and velocity time integral 0.333 / total ( p less than 0.05 ) over the first 7 days after infarction . the final recovery values at 7 days were not significantly different from those of the coronary artery disease group . 
role of beta-adrenergic blockers after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) can not currently be prevented . different medical regimens have been largely unsuccessful . experimental studies suggest roles for beta-adrenergic blockers and calcium antagonists . controlled clinical studies have failed to show any decrease in restenosis rate for calcium antagonists . corresponding studies for beta blockers are lacking . this study evaluates 541 consecutive ptca procedures , 455 ( 86 % ) in patients treated with beta blockers after ptca ( 76 % metoprolol , 14 % atenolol , 4 % sotalol , 6 % others ) and 86 ( 14 % ) in patients without beta blockers . angiographic success was achieved in 483 of 620 lesions ( 78 % ) , and was not significantly different with or without beta blockers ( 79 vs 73 % , p greater than 0.05 ) . the procedure success rate and the complication rates ( myocardial infarction , emergency coronary artery bypass grafting , death ) did not differ with or without beta blockers ( p greater than 0.05 ) . follow-up angiograms for 426 of the 483 successfully dilated lesions ( 88 % ) revealed that a total of 155 stenoses had recurred ( 36 % ) . the restenosis rate was not significantly different with ( 368 ) or without ( 58 ) beta blockers ( 36 vs 38 % , p greater than 0.05 ) . for beta blockers with calcium antagonists ( 84 % nifedipine , 13 % diltiazem , 2 % verapamil , 1 % others ) , the restenosis rate was 97 of 250 ( 39 % ) vs 36 of 118 ( 31 % ) ( p greater than 0.05 ) . this retrospective study indicates that treatment with beta-adrenergic blockers after ptca , alone or in combination with calcium antagonists , does not influence either the success rate or the restenosis rate and can be continued if indicated from an antiischemic viewpoint . 
functional status after coronary artery bypass grafting and percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . two cohorts of consecutive patients of comparable age with similar preprocedure cardiac function who underwent either coronary artery bypass grafting ( cabg ; n = 106 ) or percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ; n = 64 ) were entered into a prospective comparison study examining functional status and return to work during the first year of recovery . patients were evaluated using standardized functional status instruments for activities of daily living , work performance , social activity , mental health and quality of social interaction at 1 , 6 and 12 months after the procedure . within the cabg group , statistically significant improvements of functional status on every subscale were noted over the 1-year follow-up . patients undergoing ptca demonstrated significant improvement in all dimensions except for the quality of interaction at 1 year as compared with baseline . when the 2 groups were compared , the ptca group demonstrated greater participation than the cabg group in routine daily physical and social activities at 1 and 6 months , but this apparent advantage disappeared by 1 year . measures of psychological functioning were better after cabg than after ptca . a reduction in the number of those with employment occurred in both the cabg and ptca groups , independent of physical functional status measures , which improved in both groups after the procedures . for those with employment , the cabg group reported the greatest improvement in work performance . 
patient-related variables and restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty -- a report from the m-heart group . as part of a randomized prospective study designed to investigate the restenosis process after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) , the relation between patient-related variables and restenosis rate was examined . a total of 722 patients had successful ptca . angiographic follow-up was scheduled for 6 + / - 2 months after the procedure and achieved in 510 patients ( 71 % ) , yielding 598 lesions for analysis . the overall restenosis rate was 40 % . the rate was higher in patients undergoing early restudy for a clinical event than in those undergoing routinely scheduled follow-up restudy ( 71 vs 22 % , p less than 0.0001 ) . age , sex , cigarette smoking history , diabetes mellitus and history of previous myocardial infarction were not associated with restenosis rate . angina duration and severity before ptca were also unrelated to restenosis rate . in summary , these variables , many of which have been previously implicated in restenosis , were not found to be predictors of restenosis . the decision to perform ptca in individual patients should not be negatively influenced by the presence of these factors . 
results of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of high-risk angulated stenoses . percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) of angulated stenoses has been found in studies using older ptca equipment to be associated with a heightened risk of procedure-related major ischemic events . to better understand the factors associated with procedural risk and to identify means of lessening that risk , 100 patients , treated sequentially from 1986 to 1989 , who underwent ptca of stenoses located at greater than or equal to 45 degrees bends , were characterized for 27 clinical , anatomic and procedural variables . clinical outcome of angioplasty was related to these variables . in addition , results from 344 consecutive contemporary patients undergoing ptca of nonangulated lesions were compared to those of the study group . procedural success was achieved in only 70 % of patients with angulated stenoses , compared with 306 of 344 ( 89 % ) nonangulated stenoses , and major ischemic complications ( death , bypass surgery or myocardial infarction ) occurred in 13 % of patients with angulated stenoses compared with 12 of 344 ( 3.5 % ) with nonangulated stenoses ( both p less than 0.001 ) . the presence of associated thrombus , stenosis length greater than 10 mm or age greater than or equal to 65 years led to an even higher risk of major complications ( 9 of 44 = 20.5 % ) , whereas highly experienced angioplasty operators and the use of polyethylene terephthalate balloons appeared to decrease risk and increase the likelihood of success . ptca of such stenoses should be undertaken only cautiously and in carefully selected patients . 
quantitative angiographic comparison of the immediate success of coronary angioplasty , coronary atherectomy and endoluminal stenting . coronary atherectomy and coronary stenting effectively reduce the severity of coronary artery stenoses , but direct comparisons of these interventions with conventional balloon angioplasty have not been performed . to compare the immediate efficacy of these 3 interventions , the angiographic morphology and the severity of the residual coronary stenosis were quantitatively evaluated in 18 patients undergoing coronary atherectomy and in 21 patients treated by endoluminal coronary stenting . each of these groups of patients was compared with a matched group of coronary angioplasty patients selected from a large , computerized data-base . the variables matched included patient age and sex , lesions site and severity , and lesion complexity . both coronary atherectomy and coronary stenting more effectively reduced the severity of the coronary stenosis when compared with balloon angioplasty . the luminal diameter stenosis was reduced from 69 + / - 10 to 22 + / - 20 % in the atherectomy group compared with a reduction from 74 + / - 11 to 44 + / - 14 % in the matched coronary angioplasty population ( p = 0.008 ) . similarly , the luminal diameter stenosis was reduced from 77 + / - 11 to 26 + / - 12 % in the stented group compared with a reduction from 81 + / - 10 to 42 + / - 14 % in the matched coronary angioplasty group ( p = 0.014 ) . in addition , moderate or severe coronary dissections were noted more frequently in the coronary angioplasty groups than in their respective atherectomy and stent groups ( 0 vs 33 % , p = 0.008 , and 5 vs 19 % , p = 0.15 , respectively ) . 
early postoperative balloon coronary angioplasty for failed coronary artery bypass grafting . in a small number of patients , coronary artery bypass grafting ( cabg ) fails to relieve anginal symptoms . the usefulness of coronary angioplasty for the treatment of early ( less than or equal to 90 days ) recurrent ischemia after cabg was examined . forty-five patients were treated from 2 to 90 days after cabg , including 8 patients studied emergently for prolonged ischemic symptoms . one - , 2 - and 3-vessel native disease was found in 4 , 10 and 31 patients , respectively . at the time of postoperative angiography , the major anatomic mechanism of recurrent ischemia was complete vein graft occlusion in 12 patients ( 27 % ) , internal mammary artery occlusion in 3 ( 7 % ) , vein graft stenoses in 13 ( 29 % ) , internal mammary artery stenoses in 10 ( 22 % ) , unbypassed disease in 4 ( 8 % ) and disease distal to the graft insertion site in 3 ( 7 % ) . angioplasty was successful at 91 of 98 sites ( 93 % ) , including 95 % of 41 lesions in native arteries , 89 % of 46 lesions in vein grafts and 100 % of 11 internal mammary artery lesions attempted . complete revascularization was achieved in 84 % of patients . there were 2 in-hospital deaths and 2 myocardial infarctions . two additional patients underwent repeat cabg before discharge after uncomplicated but unsuccessful angioplasty . at late follow-up of the 43 survivors ( mean 44 months ) , there were 4 deaths , 2 of which were noncardiac . repeat cabg was required in only 3 patients and repeat angioplasty was performed in 10 . angina was absent or minimal in 35 patients ; 17 patients were employed full time . thus , percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty can relieve myocardial ischemia after unsuccessful cabg in the majority of patients . 
role of alcohol in recurrences of atrial fibrillation in persons less than 65 years of age . the role of alcohol in recurrences of atrial fibrillation ( af ) was assessed in a consecutive series of 98 patients ( 75 men ) aged less than 65 years . in addition to etiologic assessment using clinical and laboratory methods and echocardiography , the patients ' drinking habits were evaluated by recording the amount of alcohol used during the week preceding af , by responses to the cage ( cut , annoying , guilt , eye ; see below ) questionnaire ( a screening test for alcohol abuse ) and by selected laboratory tests . two groups of control subjects were studied : 98 sex - and age-matched patients admitted to the emergency ward for acute illnesses , and 50 subjects selected randomly from the local out-of-hospital population . the mean alcohol consumption among men during the study week was 186 g ( median 45 g ; range 0 to 2,100 g ) among patients , whereas among male hospital and population control subjects it was 86 g ( 30 g ; 0 to 1,050 g ) and 94 g ( 35 g ; 0 to 630 g ) , respectively . when the weekly alcohol consumption was analyzed in 3 categories ( 0 ; 1 to 210 g ; greater than 210 g ) , there was a significant difference between af cases and hospital control patients ( p = 0.03 ) , but not between af cases and population control subjects . multivariate analysis of data of af cases and population control subjects showed that alcohol intake and a positive response to 1 or more of the cage questions were independently related to af in men . other independent risk factors were the presence of heart disease , low serum potassium and lack of sleep or experience of excess psychologic stress , or both . 
comparison of the antihypertensive efficiency of nitrendipine , metoprolol , mepindolol and enalapril using ambulatory 24-hour blood pressure monitoring . in a randomized 6-month study of 201 patients , the antihypertensive efficiency of the calcium antagonist nitrendipine , the beta 1-selective blocker metoprolol , mepindolol , the beta blocker with intrinsic activity and the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril were compared as monitored by 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure ( bp ) measurements . the study was designed so that a comparable decrease in casual bp values was obtained with all 4 drugs . if normotension was not achieved with monotherapy , a diuretic also was administered . pretreatment casual bp and mean 24-hour ambulatory bp values did not differ between the 4 groups . normotension as assessed by casual bp measurements was observed in all 4 groups after 6 months of therapy , there being no significant differences between the groups . however , significantly more diuretics were required in the mepindolol ( n = 14 ) and in the enalapril ( n = 20 ) groups compared to the nitrendipine ( n = 5 ) and metoprolol ( n = 7 ) groups . despite comparable casual bp control , the 4 groups differed significantly in their mean 24-hour measurements . the greatest systolic and diastolic bp decreases were seen in the metoprolol group . metoprolol was also the most effective drug in decreasing the frequency of systolic pressure peaks greater than 180 mm hg . both beta blockers and enalapril significantly decreased the morning bp increase compared to the values before treatment , while nitrendipine did not . these data show that casual bp measurement is not a good predictor of 24-hour bp in patients taking hypertensive therapy . despite an equal degree of " office " bp control , different antihypertensive regimens do not confer the same degree of " nonoffice " bp control . 
usefulness of verapamil for congestive heart failure associated with abnormal left ventricular diastolic filling and normal left ventricular systolic performance . normal left ventricular systolic performance with impaired left ventricular diastolic filling may be present in a substantial number of patients with congestive heart failure ( chf ) . to evaluate the effect of oral verapamil in this subset , 20 men ( mean age 68 + / - 5 years ) with chf , intact left ventricular function ( ejection fraction greater than 45 % ) and abnormal diastolic filling ( peak filling rate less than 2.5 end-diastolic volumes per second [ edv/s ] ) were studied in a placebo-controlled , double-blind 5-week crossover trial . all patients underwent echocardiography to rule out significant valvular disease , and thallium-201 stress scintigraphy to exclude major active ischemia . compared to baseline values , verapamil significantly improved exercise capacity by 33 % ( 13.9 + / - 4.3 vs 10.7 + / - 3.4 minutes at baseline ) and peak filling rate by 30 % ( 2.29 + / - 0.54 vs 1.85 + / - 0.45 edv/s at baseline ) ( all p less than 0.05 ) . placebo values were 12.3 + / - 4.0 minutes and 2.16 + / - 0.48 edv/s , respectively ( difference not significant for both ) . improvement from baseline in an objective clinico-radiographic heart failure score ( scale 0 to 13 ) was significantly greater with verapamil compared to placebo ( median improvement in score : 3 vs 1 , p less than 0.01 ) . mean ejection fraction and systolic blood pressure were unchanged from baseline ; diastolic blood pressure and heart rate decreased to a small degree . verapamil may have therapeutic efficacy in patients with chf , preserved systolic function and impaired diastolic filling . 
changes in circulating norepinephrine with hemofiltration in advanced congestive heart failure . in congestive heart failure ( chf ) , hemofiltration is associated with an obvious decrease in circulating norepinephrine . this method was used for investigating the mechanisms whereby plasma norepinephrine is increased in chronic chf . in 23 cases of advanced chf , hemofiltration ( 2,983 + / - 1,228 ml ) lowered plasma norepinephrine by 515 + / - 444 pg/ml . this effect was prompt , persisted or became greater in the next 24 hours . it was not associated with significant changes in cardiac output , aortic pressure or systemic vascular resistance . it did not appear to depend on variations in parameters related to the sympathetic activity , such as plasma renin , right atrial , wedge pulmonary artery and renal perfusion pressures , and was independent of duration and amount of hemofiltration . these observations did not support the concept that the norepinephrine decrease was the main consequence of a neural sympathetic inhibition . hemofiltration increased diuresis by 606 + / - 415 ml ; changes were prompt and correlated inversely ( r = -0.7 ; p less than 0.01 ) with those in plasma norepinephrine . the same unknown mechanism of the increased urinary output might potentiate the norepinephrine removal from the blood by the kidney , or hemofiltration and the augmented diuresis might result in a regression of congestion of lungs and kidneys , leading to an improved extraction of norepinephrine . in chf , a relation may exist between fluid retention and norepinephrine and in advanced stages , circulating norepinephrine , although strikingly increased , is devoid of important cardiovascular effects . at these stages , plasma norepinephrine is probably unreliable as an index of the sympathetic neural activity . 
detection and location of myocardial infarction using technetium-99m sestamibi imaging at rest . technetium-99m ( tc-99m ) sestamibi imaging at rest has been used to detect and localize myocardial infarction . the largest study to date is a cooperative study of 146 patients in 17 institutions . there were 24 normal subjects and 122 patients with documented myocardial infarction based on clinical , enzymatic or electrocardiographic criteria . the presence of segmental myocardial perfusion defects was compared to the presence of a q wave on the electrocardiogram or wall motion abnormality on gated blood pool scans , performed within 48 hours of the tc-99m sestamibi study . of the 122 infarct patients , 118 ( 97 % ) showed perfusion abnormalities by tc-99m sestamibi imaging . a perfusion defect was found in 110 ( 99 % ) of 111 patients with a q wave and a wall motion abnormality , 113 ( 99 % ) of 114 patients with a wall motion abnormality and 113 ( 98 % ) of 115 patients with a q wave . of the 24 normal subjects , 22 ( 92 % ) had normal tc-99m sestamibi images . in 75 % of 1,986 segments , both a tc-99m sestamibi defect and a regional wall motion abnormality on gated blood scans were present . in 11 % of segments , wall motion was normal but tc-99m sestamibi imaging was abnormal ; in 14 % of segments , wall motion was abnormal and tc-99m sestamibi images were normal . in the 24 control subjects , 99 % of the segments were normal . thirty-eight patients had coronary angiography . a close relation existed between the coronary anatomy and myocardial tc-99m sestamibi uptake . all 9 territories supplied by an occluded vessel and poor collaterals had grade 0 uptake ( scale 0 to 2 : 0 = markedly reduced ; 2 = normal ) . 
detection and assessment of unstable angina using myocardial perfusion imaging : comparison between technetium-99m sestamibi spect and 12-lead electrocardiogram . forty-five studies using technetium-99m ( tc-99m ) sestamibi single photon emission computed tomography ( spect ) were performed on patients hospitalized for spontaneous chest pain suggestive of myocardial ischemia . the studies were done after an injection during an episode of chest pain and a repeated injection when the patients were free of pain . all patients were hospitalized with a presumed diagnosis of unstable angina , and none had evidence of a previous myocardial infarction . the presence of a perfusion defect observed with tc-99m sestamibi injected during chest pain had a 96 % sensitivity and a 79 % specificity for the detection of significant coronary artery disease ( stenosis greater than or equal to 50 % ) on subsequent angiography . when the criterion of a larger perfusion defect during pain compared to absence of pain was used , the sensitivity was 81 % and the specificity was 84 % . in contrast , transient electrocardiographic ischemic changes during pain had a sensitivity of 35 % and a specificity of 68 % ; electrocardiographic changes during or outside episodes of chest pain had a sensitivity of 65 % and a specificity of 63 % for the diagnosis . tc-99m sestamibi spect represents a reliable noninvasive diagnostic tool that could aid in the diagnosis of myocardial ischemia in patients with spontaneous chest pain and provide additional information to that provided by the electrocardiogram . 
planar imaging techniques used with technetium-99m sestamibi to evaluate chronic myocardial ischemia . the results of published and some unpublished studies comparing planar imaging performed with 2 radionuclides , thallium-201 ( t1-201 ) and technetium-99m ( tc-99m ) sestamibi , are reviewed . the average sensitivity for the detection of coronary artery disease ( cad ) in studies involving 594 patients was 85 % ( range 73 to 96 % ) . the average sensitivity for individual vessels was 65 % ( range 60 to 70 % ) . the average segmental concordance between t1-201 and tc-99m sestamibi was 89 % . end-diastolic gated perfusion images improved the concordance between tc-99m sestamibi and angiography in 22 patients from 83.4 to 87 % . semiquantitative analysis increased the concordance between t1-201 and tc-99m sestamibi from 89 to 91 % . ventricular function derived from gated tc-99m sestamibi perfusion images showed a significant correlation with echocardiography ( n = 62 , r = 0.85 ) ; with angiography ( n = 70 , r = 0.91 ) ; and with equilibrium radionuclide ventriculography ( n = 18 , r = 0.86 ) . the ratio of lung to left ventricle uptake and the ratio of right ventricle to left ventricle uptake was assessed . eight of 52 patients had an abnormally elevated lung index ( greater than 42 % ) and these patients had the most severe cad . six of the 52 patients had an abnormally elevated right ventricular index ( greater than 56 % ) and these patients had more severe cad . 
experimental studies of the physiologic properties of technetium-99m isonitriles . recently , efforts have been directed at the development of technetium-99m ( tc-99m ) - labeled isonitrile compounds for assessment of regional perfusion and viability after experimental myocardial infarction or ischemia . one of the most promising of these agents , tc-99m sestamibi , has undergone rather extensive laboratory investigation . like thallium-201 ( tl-201 ) , the uptake of tc-99m sestamibi in myocardial tissue is proportional to myocardial blood flow after intravenous injection . similar to other diffusible indicators , tc-99m sestamibi underestimates blood flow at high flow rates . in low flow regions , the myocardial uptake of this agent is higher relative to nonischemic uptake than is microsphere-determined blood flow . this is attributed to increased extraction at low flows . this first-pass myocardial extraction fraction for tc-99m sestamibi is less than that for tl-201 . however , tc-99m sestamibi has a higher parenchymal cell permeability and higher volume of distribution than t ; -201 . tc-99m sestamibi shows minimal " delayed redistribution " after initial intravenous administration . uptake of tc-99m sestamibi is not altered by myocardial " stunning " or with ischemic dysfunction produced by sustained low coronary flow . the uptake of the isonitrile is still proportional to blood flow in these situations . in intact animal models , myocardial uptake of tc-99m sestamibi during coronary occlusion delineates the in vivo area at risk . when tc-99m sestamibi is administered after reperfusion following variable periods of preceding coronary occlusion , tc-99m sestamibi uptake delineates the area of viable myocardium that is salvaged and not simply the degree of reflow . this suggests that serial tc-99m sestamibi imaging might be useful in assessing the efficacy of coronary reperfusion after thrombolytic therapy . 
myocardial perfusion imaging with technetium-99m sestamibi spect in the evaluation of coronary artery disease . technetium-99m ( tc-99m ) sestamibi is a new myocardial perfusion imaging agent that offers significant advantages over thallium-201 ( tl-201 ) for myocardial perfusion imaging . the results of the current clinical trials using acquisition and processing parameters similar to those for tl-201 and a separate ( 2-day ) injection protocol suggest that tc-99m sestamibi and tl-201 single photon emission computed tomography ( spect ) provide similar information with respect to detection of myocardial perfusion defects , assessment of the pattern of defect reversibility , overall detection of coronary artery disease ( cad ) and detection of disease in individual coronary arteries . tc-99m sestamibi spect appears to be superior to tc-99m sestamibi planar imaging because the former provides a higher defect contrast and is more accurate for detection of disease in individual coronary arteries . research is currently under way addressing optimization of acquisition and processing of tc-99m sestamibi studies and development of quantitative algorithms for detection and localization of cad and sizing of transmural and nontransmural myocardial perfusion defects . it is expected that with the implementation of the final results of these new developments , further significant improvement in image quality will be attained , which in turn will further increase the confidence in image interpretation . development of algorithms for analysis of end-diastolic myocardial images may allow better evaluation of small and nontransmural myocardial defects . furthermore , gated studies may provide valuable information with respect to regional myocardial wall motion and wall thickening . with the implementation of algorithms for attenuation and scatter correction , the overall specificity of tc-99m sestamibi spect should improve significantly because of a substantial decrease in the occurrence of attenuation-related image artifacts . 
clinical experience with technetium-99m teboroxime , a neutral , lipophilic myocardial perfusion imaging agent . technetium-99m ( tc-99m ) teboroxime is a new technetium-based myocardial perfusion imaging agent ( investigational code = sq30217 [ cardiotec , squibb diagnostics ] ) . a member of a class of neutral , lipophilic , technetium-containing complexes known as boronic acid adducts of technetium dioxime ( bato ) complexes , this agent is chemically very different from the cationic tracer thallium-201 ( tl-201 ) and from the cationic technetium complex tc-99m sestamibi ( cardiolite , du pont imaging agents ) . tc-99m teboroxime has high myocardial extraction , rapid blood clearance , little lung uptake and rapid myocardial washout . a biexponential pattern of myocardial washout is demonstrated in animals and in man . effective half-lives of the 2 washout components in man are 5.2 minutes and 3.8 hours and represent approximately 66 and 33 % of the myocardial activity , respectively . the first half-life for the myocardium is approximately 11 minutes . as the agent washes out of the heart , hepatic uptake occurs , peaking at about 5 minutes after injection . the liver is the major organ of excretion and receives , along with the large bowel , the largest radiation dose . rapid imaging protocols using standard cameras have achieved good myocardial counts from 3 planar views acquired over a 4 - to 5-minute period or for single photon emission computed tomography ( spect ) images acquired over a 10-minute period . an entire stress/rest procedure can be completed in 1 hour . analysis of data from 155 patients from 4 centers using planar or spect imaging showed a sensitivity and specificity for blinded readings of 82 and 91 % , respectively , when compared against overall clinical impression . 
simultaneous measurement of myocardial perfusion and ventricular function during exercise from a single injection of technetium-99m sestamibi in coronary artery disease . new radiopharmaceuticals permit simultaneous assessment of myocardial perfusion and left ventricular function using a single tracer injection . the purpose of this study was to quantitate the relation between myocardial perfusion and function at rest and during exercise in patients with documented coronary artery disease ( cad ) . a rest first-pass radionuclide angiocardiogram ( rna ) was recorded in 51 patients with cad during injection of 10 mci of technetium-99m ( tc-99m ) sestamibi , and tomographic perfusion images were obtained 60 minutes later . a treadmill test was then performed , and on attainment of an exercise end point a second first-pass rna was recorded with 30 mci of tc-99m sestamibi . tomographic images reflecting myocardial perfusion during exercise were obtained 1 hour later . tomographic perfusion defect size , quantified using modifications of the cedars-sinai program , correlated directly with end-systolic volume and inversely with ejection fraction at rest and during exercise . however , perfusion defect size often varied widely in patients with similar left ventricular function . this independence between measurements of perfusion and function suggests that simultaneous assessment of the 2 physiologic variables could improve the diagnostic and prognostic information of radionuclide tests . 
comparison of spect using technetium-99m agents and thallium-201 and pet for the assessment of myocardial perfusion and viability . this report reviews the applications of tomographic imaging with current and new tracers in assessing myocardial perfusion and viability . multiple studies with thallium-201 ( ti-201 ) single photon emission computed tomography ( spect ) imaging for the detection of coronary artery disease ( cad ) have demonstrated high sensitivity , high rates of normalcy and high reproducibility . in assessing viability , fixed defects are frequently detected in viable zones in 4-hour studies with ti-201 imaging . redistribution imaging performed 18 to 72 hours after injection or reinjection of ti-201 before 4-hour redistribution imaging has been shown to improve accuracy of viability assessment . ti-201 spect studies are limited by the suboptimal physical properties of ti-201 , which result in variable image quality . the 2 new technetium-99m ( tc-99m ) - labeled myocardial perfusion tracers offer the ability to inject much higher amounts of radioactivity , making it possible to assess ventricular function as well as myocardial perfusion from the same injection of radiotracer . tc-99m sestamibi has very slow myocardial clearance , which allows for prolonged imaging time and results in image quality superior to that obtained with ti-201 and tc-99m teboroxime . the combination of minimal redistribution of tc-99m sestamibi and high count rates makes gated spect imaging feasible , and also permits assessment of patients with acute ischemic syndromes by uncoupling the time of injection from the time of imaging . the combination of high image quality and first-pass exercise capabilities may lead to a choice of this agent over ti-201 for assessment of chronic cad . 
technetium-99m sestamibi myocardial imaging : same-day rest-stress studies and dipyridamole . unlike thallium-201 , technetium-99m ( tc-99m ) sestamibi does not redistribute in the myocardium after injection . thus , 2 separate injections , 1 at rest and the other at stress ( or after dipyridamole ) , are required to differentiate ischemia from scar . from a physical viewpoint , a 24-hour interval between the 2 injections is preferable for detection of coronary artery disease ( cad ) with tc-99m sestamibi imaging . however , same-day studies are more convenient in clinical practice . results of studies using different tc-99m sestamibi injection protocols are presented with emphasis on the advantages of a rest-stress injection sequence with a low dose at rest ( 7 mci ) followed 2 hours later by a higher dose at stress ( 25 mci ) . a prospective study was conducted in a patient population with proven cad using same-day studies to compare a rest-stress ( 7 and 25 mci , respectively ) to a stress-rest ( 7 and 25 mci ) tc-99m sestamibi injection sequence . there was an agreement in 87.3 % of the analyzed segments between the 2 protocols . however , the largest discordance for type of defect applied to 7.4 % of the segments judged ischemic in the rest-stress protocol , which were called scars on stress-rest . this study showed that a rest-stress sequence is preferable when using a same-day protocol with a short time interval ( less than 2 hours ) between the 2 tc-99m sestamibi injections because the rest image performed initially represents a " true " rest study , which is not necessarily the case with the stress-rest sequence . preliminary studies were performed to evaluate dipyridamole with tc-99m sestamibi imaging in normal subjects and in patients with cad . these studies showed that treadmill and dipyridamole tc-99m sestamibi imaging are comparable and the results are similar to those obtained with thallium-201 . 
use of technetium-99m sestamibi to determine the size of the myocardial area perfused by a coronary artery . the value of the new radionuclide tracer , technetium-99m ( tc-99m ) sestamibi , to demonstrate myocardial perfusion in areas supplied by specific coronary arteries was evaluated in patients injected with the agent during cardiac catheterization . tc-99m sestamibi differs from thallium-201 in its physical characteristics ( photon energy 140 kev ) , half-life ( 6 hours ) and lack of significant redistribution , allowing its administration during an episode of chest pain or ischemia occurring outside the nuclear medicine laboratory with later imaging to visualize the distribution . in 13 patients tc-99m sestamibi was administered intravenously during balloon-occlusion angioplasty . in 11 of 13 patients , defects of the single photon emission computed tomography images corresponded to the area made ischemic during angioplasty . in the remaining 2 patients , abundant collateral flow was present and no defects were seen . in a second study , 15 patients had tc-99m sestamibi selectively injected into a coronary artery during angiography . later imaging identified the area supplied by the artery injected . tc-99m sestamibi imaging can detect perfusion defects associated with short episodes of ischemia , and the area supplied by the different coronary arteries . 
technetium-99m sestamibi in chronic coronary artery disease : the european experience . since the introduction of technetium-99m methoxy-isobutyl isonitrile ( tc-99m sestamibi ) in europe , there has been a growing interest in its use . several european multicenter trials have been conducted to evaluate this new agent in relation to the traditional perfusion marker thallium-201 , and other studies are in progress to understand the use of this perfusion marker for the diagnosis of coronary disease , for use in conjunction with pharmacologic vasodilation , for use in the assessment of ventricular function and wall motion and for the assessment of interventions . 
percutaneous excimer laser coronary angioplasty . to determine the efficacy of percutaneous excimer laser coronary angioplasty as an adjunct or alternative to conventional balloon angioplasty , 55 patients were studied in a multicenter trial . these patients underwent the procedure using a modification of conventional balloon angioplasty technique . a first-generation , 1.6-mm diameter catheter constructed of 12 individual silica fibers concentrically arranged around a guidewire lumen was used . catheter tip energy density varied from 35 to 50 mj/mm2 . the mean number of pulses delivered at 20 hz was 1,272 + / - 1,345 . acute success was defined as a greater than or equal to 20 % increase in stenotic diameter and a lumen of greater than or equal to 1 mm in diameter after laser treatment . acute success was achieved in 46 of 55 ( 84 % ) patients . adjunctive balloon angioplasty was performed on 41 patients ( 75 % ) . the percent diameter stenosis as determined by quantitative angiography decreased from a baseline of 83 + / - 14 to 49 + / - 11 % after laser treatment and to 38 + / - 12 % in patients undergoing adjunctive balloon angioplasty . the mean minimal stenotic diameter increased from a baseline of 0.5 + / - 0.4 to 1.6 + / - 0.5 mm after laser treatment and to 2.1 + / - 0.5 mm after balloon angioplasty . there were no deaths and no vascular perforations . one patient ( 1.8 % ) required emergency coronary bypass surgery . these data suggest that excimer laser energy delivered percutaneously by specially constructed catheters can safely ablate atheroma and reduce coronary stenoses . 
results of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in patients greater than or equal to 65 years of age ( from the 1985 to 1986 national heart , lung , and blood institute 's coronary angioplasty registry ) . the 1985 to 1986 national heart , lung , and blood institute percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) registry series of 1,801 initial procedures included 486 patients age greater than or equal to 65 years ( elderly ) . in comparison to younger patients , a greater proportion of elderly patients were women and had unstable angina . elderly patients had more history of hypertension and more history of congestive heart failure . although the elderly had more extensive vessel disease , the numbers of lesions and vessels attempted with ptca were similar in the older and younger cohorts . angiographic success rates were similar for all age groups . although complication rates in the catheterization laboratory did not differ , patients greater than or equal to 65 years were much more likely to require emergency coronary artery bypass graft surgery ( cabg ) ( 5.4 vs 2.8 % , p less than 0.05 ) or elective cabg ( 3.9 vs 1.6 % , p less than 0.01 ) . the in-hospital death rate was considerably higher among the elderly ( 3.1 vs 0.2 % , p less than 0.01 ) . at 2-year follow-up , symptomatic status and cumulative rates of myocardial infarction , cabg and repeat ptca were similar for elderly and younger patients . the death rate after 2 years was higher among elderly patients ( 8.8 % of patients greater than or equal to 65 years vs 2.9 % of patients less than 65 years , p less than 0.01 ) . when the relative risk of death for the elderly was adjusted for factors more prevalent among those greater than or equal to 65 years ( history of congestive heart failure , multivessel disease , unstable angina , history of hypertension and female gender ) , the relative risk remained significant but was substantially reduced ( from 3.3 to 2.4 ) . 
timing and mechanism of in-hospital and late death after primary coronary angioplasty during acute myocardial infarction . the effect of early myocardial reperfusion on patterns of death after acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) is unknown . thus , the mechanism and timing of in-hospital and late deaths among a group of 614 patients treated with coronary angioplasty without antecedent thrombolytic therapy for ami were determined . death occurred in 49 patients ( 8 % ) before hospital discharge . four patients died in the catheterization laboratory . death was due to cardiogenic shock in 22 patients , acute vessel reclosure in 5 patients , was sudden in 8 patients and followed elective coronary artery bypass surgery in 8 patients . cardiac rupture was observed in only 2 patients after failed infarct angioplasty , and did not occur among the 574 patients with successful infarct reperfusion . intracranial hemorrhage did not occur . multivariate predictors of in-hospital death included failed infarct angioplasty , cardiogenic shock , 3-vessel coronary artery disease and age greater than or equal to 70 years . during a follow-up period of 32 + / - 21 months ( range 1 to 87 ) , 55 patients died . the cause of death was cardiac in 36 patients , including an arrhythmic death in 23 patients and was due to circulatory failure in 13 others . one patient died of reinfarction due to late reclosure of the infarct artery . actuarial survival curves demonstrated overall survival after hospital discharge of 95 and 87 % at 1 and 4 years , respectively . freedom from cardiac death at 1 and 4 years was 96 and 92 % . multivariate predictors of late death included 3-vessel disease , a baseline ejection fraction of less than or equal to 40 % , age greater than 70 years and female gender . 
circadian rhythm of heart rate variability after acute myocardial infarction and its influence on the prognostic value of heart rate variability . this study examined heart rate ( hr ) variability in patients surviving acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) to find the optimum time and duration of recording of the ambulatory electrocardiogram for the prediction of the risk of sudden cardiac death , or serious arrhythmic events , or both . twenty patients ( group i ) who initially survived an ami but later experienced serious events ( death or symptomatic sustained ventricular tachycardia ) during a 6-month follow-up were compared with 20 patients ( group ii ) who remained free of complications for greater than 6 months after discharge . groups i and ii were matched with regard to age , gender , infarct site , ejection fraction , and beta-blocker treatment . hr variability was assessed in the 24-hour electrocardiograms recorded during the first 2 weeks after an ami and in various portions of the complete 24-hour recording , with both the beginning and the length of the analyzed portion varied by 20 minutes ( a total of 5,113 possibilities ) . the maximum reduction of hr variability in group i patients was systematically found when assessing hr variability in recordings starting approximately at 6 a.m. and lasting for approximately 8 hours . in the low-risk patient , the diurnal rhythm of hr variability is more marked than in the high-risk patient and the long-term components of hr variability due to the diurnal variation must be included in the measurement of hr variability when using it as a long-term predictor of risk from arrhythmic events after an ami . 
doppler assessment of left ventricular filling pattern in silent ischemia in patients with prinzmetal 's angina . spontaneous angina is an ideal condition in which to study left ventricular ( lv ) dysfunction induced by acute myocardial ischemia . in 6 patients with prinzmetal 's angina , lv diastolic function during 16 episodes of spontaneous angina was studied by simultaneous recordings of electrocardiographic ( ecg ) , echocardiographic and hemodynamic parameters . in particular , pulsed doppler echocardiography measured peak velocity of early ( e ) and late ( a ) transmitral flow and e/a ratio , as indexes of relative early versus late lv filling . during the ischemic attacks , the time sequence of pulsed doppler echocardiographic and ecg changes showed 3 distinct phases : ( 1 ) " waxing phase : transmitral flow changes with minimal ecg modifications ( e/a = 0.85 + / - 0.1 ) ; ( 2 ) " steady " phase : maximal ecg changes ( e/a = 0.9 + / - 0.1 ) ; and ( 3 ) " waning " phase : regression of the ecg changes ( e/a = 1.26 + / - 0.15 ) . in each phase , e/a ratio showed a significant difference from the baseline value ( e/a = 1.17 + / - 0.2 ) as a result of changes in e , suggesting that myocardial ischemia affects mainly the early phase of diastole . in the waxing phase , lv diastolic dysfunction preceded systolic abnormalities , as documented by a significant reduction of e/a ratio in the absence of alterations in lv ejection fraction , as well as in systemic arterial and pulmonary wedge pressures . finally , all the recorded parameters were consistent with lv " contractile rebound " occurring in the waning phase and affecting both diastole and systole . 
aortic calcified plaques and cardiovascular disease ( the framingham study ) . the relation between the presence of calcified plaques in the thoracic aorta , as detected on chest x-rays , and the development of cardiovascular disease is examined during 12 years of follow-up of the framingham cohort ( n = 5,209 ) . the prevalence of aortic calcified plaques approximately doubled with each decade of age , with only a trivial male predominance . its presence was associated with a twofold increase in risk of cardiovascular death in men and women younger than age 65 , even after other risk factors were taken into account . similar increases in risk were found for coronary artery disease , stroke and intermittent claudication among middle-aged women . in middle-aged men these risks were less marked . the predictive value of aortic calcified plaques generally diminished with age . risk of sudden coronary death in men with calcified plaques in the thoracic aorta ranged from a sevenfold increase at age 35 to no excess risk at age 70 years . these results support the view that atherosclerosis is a generalized process . the finding of aortic calcified plaques in a relatively young subject on a routine chest x-ray should be regarded as a sign for potential development of clinically manifest atherosclerotic disease in the cardiac , cerebral and peripheral arterial circulation . 
comparison of direct and indirect measures of systemic arterial pressure during weightlifting in coronary artery disease . based on auscultation measurements after exercise , circuit weight training in cardiac patients has been reported to provoke minimal increases in systolic pressure . direct ( brachial artery catheter ) and indirect ( sphygmomanometry ) measures of blood pressure were compared at rest , during lifting with the legs ( approximately the fourth , ninth and fourteenth repetition ) and during 2 minutes of recovery after lifting with the arms and legs . subjects performed 15 repetitions of single-arm curl , single-arm military press and single - and double-leg press exercises at 40 and 60 % of the maximum load that could be lifted once on a multistation weightlifting apparatus . indirect measures of systolic pressure at rest were 13 % less than those recorded directly ( 130 + / - 7 vs 149 + / - 8 torr ; p less than 0.01 ) ; diastolic pressures were similar using either method . this pattern was maintained during lifting with the legs at both intensities , and after exercise with both the legs and the arms . the mean systolic pressure recorded indirectly immediately after exercise was 63 torr ( 31 % ) and 76 torr ( 34 % ) less than the average peak intraarterial value recorded during leg and arm exercises , respectively . the highest intraarterial pressures were generated during the final repetitions of the set ; immediately after the last repetition , both systolic and diastolic pressures rapidly decreased . it is concluded that indirect estimates of systolic pressure are significantly less than true arterial values at rest , and during and after lifting . moreover , indirect measurements after lifting do not allow accurate conclusions to be drawn about the arterial pressures generated during lifting because of the rapid decrease in pressure that occurs after exercise . 
response of angiographically normal and atherosclerotic left anterior descending coronary arteries to acetylcholine . acetylcholine-induced constriction of human coronary arteries in vivo is commonly attributed to endothelial dysfunction . to examine the effects of 2 other important determinants of vascular responses -- namely , agonist concentration and the segment of circulation under study -- the diameters of proximal , middle and distal segments of the left anterior descending artery ( lad ) and coronary sinus oxygen saturation were measured in 10 patients with angiographically normal coronary arteries ( group 1 ) and in 7 patients with coronary atherosclerosis ( group 2 ) after intracoronary acetylcholine was infused at concentrations from 10 ( -7 ) m to between 10 ( -4 ) m and 10 ( -2 ) m. in group 1 , acetylcholine caused minor ( less than or equal to 6 % ) but progressive dilatation of the lad up to 10 ( -4 ) m , but constriction , particularly of the distal segments and tertiary branches , occurred at higher concentrations . over the same concentration range , coronary sinus oxygen saturation rose progressively from a basal level of 36 + / - 3 % to a maximum of 72 + / - 3 % in the absence of changes in heart rate and blood pressure , suggesting marked progressive dilatation of resistance vessels . concentrations greater than or equal to 10 ( -3 ) m caused intense constriction of distal epicardial vessels and , in some cases , anginal pain and objective signs of ischemia . conversely , in group 2 , acetylcholine ( infused only up to 10 ( -4 ) m for ethical reasons ) failed to cause significant changes in lad diameter . these data suggest that the local acetylcholine concentration and coronary vascular segment under study may determine the observed response to at least an equivalent extent as does the presence or absence of coronary atherosclerosis , raising the question of whether a constrictor response to intracoronary acetylcholine reliably indicates the presence of coronary atherosclerosis . 
clinical and electrophysiologic characteristics of patients with antidromic circus movement tachycardia in the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome . antidromic circus movement tachycardia was documented in 36 of 345 consecutive patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome undergoing detailed electrophysiologic evaluation . twenty-six patients were men and 10 were women ( mean age + / - standard deviation 26 + / - 12 years [ range 12 to 45 ] ) . multiple accessory pathways were identified in 12 of these 36 patients ( 33 % ) . ten of the patients ( 67 % ) with clinically documented antidromic tachycardia had multiple accessory pathways . dizziness and syncope occurred in 61 and 50 % of patients with antidromic circus movement tachycardia . six patients had clinical documentation of atrial fibrillation , and 4 patients ( 11 % ) were resuscitated from ventricular fibrillation . in the 36 patients , 56 distinct antidromic tachycardias were recorded and several different pathways were observed . orthodromic tachycardia was the most frequently associated arrhythmia ( 72 % ) . dual atrioventricular nodal pathways were present in 12 patients ( 33 % ) ; however , atrioventricular nodal tachycardia could be initiated in only 2 of them . interruption of the accessory pathway was successfully performed in all 20 patients undergoing surgery . 
electrocardiographic signal-averaging during atrial pacing and effect of cycle length on the terminal qrs in patients with and without inducible ventricular tachycardia . electrocardiographic signal-averaging during sinus rhythm ( 61 to 99 beats/min ) and atrial pacing ( 100 to 171 beats/min ) were performed to determine the effect of heart rate on late potentials in 15 patients without ( group 1 ) and 7 patients with ( group 2 ) inducible sustained ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) . in sinus rhythm ( 79 + / - 12 vs 77 + / - 12 beats/min , difference not significant ) , the duration of the low-amplitude signal less than 40 microv was longer in group 2 than group 1 ( 43 + / - 21 vs 26 + / - 8 ms , p = 0.034 ) and more patients had late potentials ( 57 vs 7 % , p = 0.021 ) , but qrs duration ( 121 + / - 32 vs 98 + / - 19 ms ) and terminal voltage ( 33 + / - 33 vs 50 + / - 26 ms ) were not significantly different . with atrial pacing in group 1 ( 128 + / - 16 beats/min ) , 3 patients developed a simultaneous decrease in terminal voltage and an increase in terminal qrs duration consistent with a late potential , but mean total and terminal durations were unchanged . terminal voltage increased ( 50 + / - 26 to 59 + / - 40 ) but not significantly . with atrial pacing in group 2 ( 119 + / - 12 beats/min ) all patients either had a late potential or developed a simultaneous decrease in terminal voltage and an increase in terminal qrs duration ( p = 0.001 vs group 1 ) . root mean square ( p = 0.001 vs group 1 ) . root mean square voltage decreased ( 33 + / - 23 to 22 + / - 23 ) and became significantly different from group 1 ( p = 0.017 ) . mean qrs duration , root mean square terminal voltage and low-amplitude terminal qrs duration , however , were unchanged . 
comparison of intravenous amrinone and dobutamine in congestive heart failure due to idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy . a prospective randomized study was performed in 46 consecutive patients with refractory congestive heart failure ( chf ) due to idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy to compare the hemodynamic responses to 48-hour infusions of amrinone and dobutamine . both drugs substantially reduced pulmonary arterial wedge pressure , right atrial pressure and systemic vascular resistance and increased cardiac index . amrinone caused a greater decrease in right atrial pressure than dobutamine ( p less than 0.02 ) and had a positive chronotropic effect not observed with dobutamine ( p less than 0.01 ) . the increase in heart rate produced by amrinone correlated inversely with the changes in right atrial and pulmonary arterial wedge pressures , suggesting a baroreceptor response to reduced preload . dobutamine produced a larger increase in stroke volume index than amrinone ( p less than 0.01 ) . ninety-one percent of patients receiving amrinone and only 65 % receiving dobutamine had reduction of greater than or equal to 30 % in pulmonary arterial wedge pressure ( p less than 0.05 ) . cardiac index increased greater than or equal to 30 % in similar numbers of patients given amrinone ( 74 % ) and dobutamine ( 65 % ) . negative fluid balance was recorded in all patients receiving amrinone and in 78 % of patients receiving dobutamine ( p less than 0.05 ) . target hemodynamic criteria were achieved in 83 % of patients receiving 10 micrograms/kg/min of amrinone . the effective maintenance dose of dobutamine was extremely variable . no clinically important adverse effects were observed with either drug regimen . both amrinone and dobutamine are effective and safe agents for short-term parenteral therapy of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy in severe chf that is unresponsive to oral medication . 
comparison of frequency of late potentials in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and ischemic cardiomyopathy with advanced congestive heart failure and their usefulness in predicting sudden death . signal-averaged electrocardiograms were obtained in 62 consecutive patients with advanced congestive heart failure ( chf ) undergoing evaluation for possible heart transplantation to determine if late potentials : ( 1 ) provide unique information compared to assessment of ventricular ectopic activity on ambulatory electrocardiogram , and ( 2 ) identify a subgroup of chf patients with higher sudden death risk . patients with a history of cardiac arrest or sustained ventricular tachycardia were excluded . chf was due to old myocardial infarction in 40 patients and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy in 22 patients . late potentials were present in 16 of 40 ( 40 % ) patients with old infarction but in only 3 of 22 ( 14 % ) patients with nonischemic chf ( p = 0.03 ) . twenty-four-hour ambulatory electrocardiograms were obtained in 34 patients ( 55 % ) . total ventricular ectopic activity and repetitive forms of ectopy were similar in patients with and without late potentials . nine patients died suddenly , 9 had nonsudden death , 15 underwent heart transplantation and 29 were alive and well after a mean follow-up of 218 + / - 154 days . at 1 year , the actuarial risk of death was 37 % and of sudden death was 20 % . sudden death risk was 12 % in patients with late potentials versus 21 % in those without ( p = 0.73 ) . thus , the incidence of the arrhythmia substrate producing late potentials depends on the chf etiology . the signal-averaged electrocardiogram and ambulatory electrocardiogram provide independent information for possible risk assessment in chf . however , late potentials are poor predictors of sudden death risk when chf is advanced , possibly due to the heterogeneity of causes of sudden death -- ventricular tachycardia being only 1 of many possible mechanisms . 
value of carvedilol in congestive heart failure secondary to coronary artery disease . despite considerable interest in the use of beta-blocking agents in congestive heart failure ( chf ) , their clinical application is limited because of their negative inotropic effects . beta blockers with vasodilating properties may have the advantage of overcoming this , however . carvedilol , a beta-blocking agent with vasodilating properties , was evaluated in 17 patients with chronic chf secondary to ischemic heart disease with a resting left ventricular ejection fraction less than or equal to 45 % , who were being maintained on diuretics . exercise testing , radionuclide ventriculography , and right-sided cardiac catheterization were performed and intraarterial blood pressure measured before and after 8 weeks of carvedilol therapy in a dosage of 12.5 to 50.0 mg twice a day . twelve patients completed the study and 5 withdrew . symptomatic and hemodynamic improvement was demonstrated in 11 of the 12 patients . heart rate and intraarterial blood pressure were both reduced by chronic therapy . mean + / - standard deviation exercise time improved from 4.3 + / - 1.6 to 7.1 + / - 2.7 minutes ( p less than 0.0001 ) , as did resting left ventricular ejection fraction , from 27 + / - 9 to 31 + / - 11 % ( p less than 0.02 ) . pulmonary arterial wedge pressure fell from 19 + / - 7 mm hg to 12 + / - 5 mm hg ( p less than 0.001 ) and total systemic vascular resistance from 1,752 + / - 403 to 1,497 + / - 310 dynes/s/cm -5 / m2 ( p less than 0.02 ) . stroke volume index improved also , from 31 + / - 6 ml to 40 + / - 6 ml ( p less than 0.0005 ) . these hemodynamic changes were mediated partly by vasodilation , diminished myocardial oxygen demand and reduction of sympathetic overactivity in the failing heart . these data suggest that carvedilol may have beneficial effects in patients with chronic chf secondary to coronary artery disease . 
improvement in early diastolic filling dynamics after aortic valve replacement . with use of ultrafast computed tomography , 13 patients undergoing aortic valve replacement for aortic stenosis were prospectively followed to evaluate the relation between left ventricular mass and diastolic function . studies were done before intervention , and then at 4 and 8 months later . mass decreased from 161 + / - 11 g/m2 ( + / - standard error of the mean ) at baseline to 106 + / - 5 g/m2 , and then to 97 + / - 7 g/m2 at 4 and 8 months , respectively , in 12 patients who demonstrated significant ( greater than 20 % ) mass regression after operation . one patient failed to show significant changes in mass . diastolic function , as defined by the peak filling rate of early diastole , improved ( p less than 0.02 ) in the group with mass regression , from 2.11 + / - 0.17 s-1 at baseline to 2.12 + / - 0.23 s-1 , and then to 2.62 + / - 0.26 s-1 at 4 and 8 months , respectively . improvement in the time to peak filling rate was also noted . heart rates were unchanged , whereas end-diastolic volumes decreased and ejection fractions increased slightly . postoperative increase in peak filling rate correlated with regression of ventricular mass to within normal range ( + / - 2 standard deviations ) and attainment of new york heart association class i status by 8 months ( p less than 0.02 ) . thus , improvement in diastolic function can be seen after aortic valve surgery and is associated with improved functional class . diastolic function improves later than the regression in wall mass and may imply a delayed remodeling of the ventricle . 
relevance of intrinsic sympathomimetic activity for beta blockers . intrinsic sympathomimetic activity ( isa ) characterizes a group of beta blockers that are able to stimulate beta-adrenergic receptors ( agonist effect ) and to oppose the stimulating effects of catecholamines ( antagonist effect ) in a competitive way . partial agonists are ligands that elicit a submaximal response when bound to beta receptors at maximal occupancy . in the isolated rat atrium , acebutolol produces a maximal stimulatory effect that is only 17 + / - 8 % of the maximal effect induced by the full beta agonist isoproterenol . the presence of isa results in less resting bradycardia and less of a reduction in cardiac output than is observed with beta blockers without isa . in the long term , partial beta agonists may produce arterial vasodilation and increase arterial compliance , possibly leading to additional beneficial effects in the treatment of hypertension . beta blockers with isa do not have adverse effects on plasma lipoproteins during long-term treatment ; in addition , the presence of isa could counteract the up-regulation of beta adrenoceptors often observed with beta blockers without isa . finally , the presence of isa has been a conflicting issue for the use of such beta blockers in secondary prevention after myocardial infarction . however , the impressive results of the acebutolol prevention of secondary infarction trial in high-risk patients after myocardial infarction show that acebutolol , a beta blocker with moderate partial agonist activity , can be effective in decreasing the postinfarction mortality rate . by exhibiting a strikingly different hemodynamic profile from that of beta blockers without isa , the partial beta agonists form an intriguing pharmacologic class of drugs for which prospective clinical trials should be extensively pursued . 
efficacy of acebutolol after acute myocardial infarction ( the apsi trial ) . the apsi investigators . a randomized , placebo-controlled trial was carried out to determine the effectiveness of acebutolol in preventing late death in high-risk patients surviving an acute myocardial infarction ( mi ) . the average 1-year mortality rate in placebo groups of 9 trials of beta blockers in post-mi patients was 7.2 % compared with 17 % in a nonselected cohort of patients who had survived at least 7 days after an mi . the mandate for this trial was based on the fact that high-risk patients whose mortality rate exceeds 20 % have not been enrolled in significant numbers in previous trials . it remains to be proved whether beta-blocking therapy in this patient population is beneficial . selection of high-risk patients for inclusion in the trial was based on an algorithm set up from the essai de prevention secondaire de l'infarctus du myocarde registry . at the time of the second interim analysis , the mortality rate in the placebo group was 12 % , lower than expected ( greater than or equal to 20 % ) . the trial was stopped ; at that time , 309 patients had been allocated to placebo and 298 patients to acebutolol therapy . after 318 days , there were 17 deaths in the acebutolol-treated group and 34 in the placebo group , a reduction in total mortality of 48 % ( p = 0.019 ) . there were 30 vascular deaths in the placebo group and 12 in the acebutolol group . thus , cardiovascular mortality with acebutolol was reduced by 58 % ( p = 0.006 ) . the incidence of all cardiovascular-related deaths was lower in the acebutolol-treated group . the total reduction in mortality did not appear to be correlated with secondary risk factors . 
secondary prevention of acute myocardial infarction with beta-blocking agents and calcium antagonists . the discovery that beta blockers possess clinically useful hypotensive , antianginal and antiarrhythmic properties has attracted the interest of clinicians , researchers and the pharmaceutical community alike . in addition , minor differences in a variety of ancillary properties have led to speculation that specific classes of drugs might have advantages over other classes . the enthusiasm that greeted reports from the first small trials , which showed that beta blockers reduced the postmyocardial infarction mortality rate , attracted the commercial support necessary to evaluate different beta blockers in this clinical setting . the plethora of beta blockers that subsequently became available for study led to considerable improvement in both the design and implementation of large clinical trials . despite apparent discrepancies in the results of various trials , meta-analysis indicates that most , if not all , beta blockers reduce postinfarction mortality . however , because meta-analysis can not recommend a particular drug or specific dose for use in an individual patient , clinical practice must be based on the results of individual trials , not on the conclusions of meta-analysis . the clinical utility of beta blockers in the secondary prevention of myocardial infarction , coupled with experimental evidence that calcium antagonists reduce infarct size , led to a series of large studies designed to establish whether calcium antagonists have any effect on reducing mortality in patients with myocardial infarction . lessons learned from the beta-blocker trials permitted a more rapid evaluation of the efficacy of calcium antagonists in this setting . it is clear that , unlike beta blockers , calcium antagonists are not effective in the secondary prevention of myocardial infarction . 
characteristics of participants at baseline in the treatment of mild hypertension study ( tomhs ) . the treatment of mild hypertension study ( tomhs ) is a randomized , double-blind clinical trial currently being conducted to compare the effects of nonpharmacologic therapy alone with those of 1 of 5 active drug regimens combined with nonpharmacologic therapy , for long-term management of patients with mild hypertension . six classes of drugs were studied : ( 1 ) acebutolol ( beta blocker ) , ( 2 ) amlodipine ( calcium antagonist ) , ( 3 ) chlorthalidone ( diuretic ) , ( 4 ) doxazosin ( alpha 1 antagonist ) , ( 5 ) enalapril ( angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor ) and ( 6 ) placebo . all participants received nutritional-hygienic advice to reduce weight and sodium and alcohol intakes and to increase physical activity . end points include blood pressure change , side effects and quality-of-life indices ; incidence of electrocardiographic and echocardiographic abnormalities ; and incidence of cardiovascular clinical events , including death , among participants receiving drugs as first-step treatment as well as nonpharmacologic treatment compared with incidence among those participants randomized to nonpharmacologic treatment only as the initial step . 
arterial protection : a neglected but crucial therapeutic goal . hypertension is accompanied by 2 major types of arterial pathologic conditions : smooth muscle hypertrophy of arteriolar resistance vessels and atherosclerosis , primarily involving the larger arteries . smooth muscle hypertrophy may develop either as a secondary defense against elevated intravascular pressure or as a primary defect responsible for the increased pressure . insulin and a number of other trophic stimuli may play a pathogenetic role in vascular hypertrophy . reducing blood pressure and trophic stimuli may cause hypertrophy to be reversed . because atherosclerosis may be markedly accelerated by hypertension , especially in the presence of concomitant risk factors , such as hypercholesterolemia , cigarette smoking and diabetes mellitus , antihypertensive treatment may attenuate or even reverse the extent of atherosclerosis , but only when the causative factors are also corrected . some commonly used antihypertensive agents , e.g. , diuretics and beta blockers without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity , often aggravate hypercholesterolemia and glucose intolerance , thereby diminishing their potential protective value . other types of drug therapy , such as alpha blockers , beta blockers with intrinsic sympathomimetic activity or other vasodilator activity , angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and calcium entry blockers that may not induce biochemical changes , should provide better control of multiple risks and thereby better protection against atherosclerosis . with a better understanding of how hypertension induces arterial damage , clinicians will be able to provide more appropriate treatment and , it is hoped , alleviate such damage . 
mechanical factors in large artery disease and antihypertensive drugs . hypertension may induce early alterations in large arteries by 2 mechanical stresses : one related to intravascular pressure , the other to blood flow dynamics . distending pressure force acts in a circumferential direction , inducing decreased arterial distensibility . arterial distensibility can be evaluated in humans by measurement of arterial compliance and pulse-wave velocity . it is well established that in chronic hypertension age and elevated pressure act together to increase arterial rigidity . blood flow dynamics induce frictional forces in the endothelial surfaces of arteries . these forces , expressed by shear stress , are proportional to the viscosity of the blood and to the velocity gradient at the arterial wall . measurement of blood viscosity and evaluation of velocity profile in the brachial arteries of hypertensive subjects have shown a reduction in wall shear rate and stress despite the elevation in blood viscosity . several studies have shown that drug therapy that successfully reduces blood pressure does not necessarily improve arterial compliance . in contrast , few data are available on the effects of antihypertensive medication on arterial wall shear in humans . arterial compliance and wall shear stress are 2 main therapeutic targets of potential importance in the physiopharmacologic approach to the effects of hypertension on atherogenesis . 
documentation of the effective length of action of antihypertensive treatment . the technique of automated ambulatory blood pressure ( bp ) monitoring offers an innovative means for measuring bp throughout the 24-hour period . recently available compact monitoring instruments have been shown to be accurate and to provide reproducible measurements of the circadian bp pattern . the monitoring procedure is advantageous in that it minimizes or avoids placebo effects during therapeutic trials . moreover , its power makes it possible to draw statistically valid conclusions regarding efficacy in fewer patients than would be required if conventional methods were used . this procedure also enhances the diagnosis of hypertension by identifying patients with " office " or " white coat " hypertension , and thereby facilitates assessment of treatment effects in those patients who are truly hypertensive . automated monitoring measures bp at critical times of the day , including the preawakening and early morning hours , and it enables peak and trough antihypertensive drug effects to be carefully quantified . since patient compliance appears to be enhanced with once - or twice-daily dosing , antihypertensive agents with long durations of action ( 24 hours ) are of considerable interest . this report reviews some recent studies in which the monitoring technique has been used to measure the efficacy and duration of action of differing antihypertensive drugs . 
acebutolol effects on lipid profile [ published erratum appears in am j cardiol 1990 dec 1 ; 66 ( 19 ) : a8 ] the relation between lipid profile and the incidence of coronary artery disease has been confirmed by the results of epidemiologic and intervention studies . among antihypertensive agents , beta blockers , particularly those without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity ( isa ) , are generally reported to have negative effects on lipids , which may increase the risk of coronary artery disease . the ongoing treatment of mild hypertension study , now in its third year , has evaluated 847 patients to date with regard to lipid profile . additional end points measured in this multicenter , randomized , controlled , double-blind study include blood pressure reduction and target organ deterioration . during the trial , all patients received nutritional and behavioral counselling to modify their diet , exercise habits and alcohol and sodium consumption to control their hypertension by nonpharmacologic means . in addition , some patients were randomized to receive low doses of 1 of the 5 classes of antihypertensive medication : acebutolol , a beta blocker with isa ( n = 124 ) ; amlodipine , a calcium channel blocker ( n = 122 ) ; chlorthalidone , a diuretic ( n = 125 ) ; doxazosin , an alpha blocker ( n = 128 ) ; enalapril , an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor ( n = 127 ) or placebo ( n = 221 ) . at 1 year , acebutolol showed a statistically significant ( p less than 0.001 ) decrease in total cholesterol ( -12.7 mg/dl ) compared with placebo ( -5.2 mg/dl ) and with chlorthalidone ( 1.0 mg/dl ) ; a significant ( p less than 0.001 ) decrease in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( -6.0 mg/dl ) compared with placebo ( +0.7 mg/dl ) and with chlorthalidone ( +8.0 mg/dl ) and no change in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( -0.4 mg/dl ) . 
advantages of beta blockers versus antiarrhythmic agents and calcium antagonists in secondary prevention after myocardial infarction . patients who have sustained greater than or equal to 1 myocardial infarcts are at high risk for sudden death or reinfarction ; the risk is highest for those with lowest ventricular ejection fraction , continuing myocardial ischemia and asymptomatic high-density and complex premature ventricular contractions . at present , beta blockers when given prophylactically are the only agents that reduce the incidence of sudden death and reinfarction in survivors of myocardial infarction ( mi ) in the first 2 years . the beneficial effect was shown to correlate with a reduction in heart rate , the effect being absent or deleterious with beta blockers with marked sympathomimetic activity . the effects of beta blockers on ventricular fibrillation appeared to be dissociated from those on premature ventricular contractions . trials with calcium antagonists indicate that these drugs had no effect or increased the mortality rate . the divergent effect of beta blockers and calcium antagonists is unexplained but may be due in part to a lack of bradycardiac effect of calcium antagonists ; there were no differences in effect among different calcium antagonists . data from trials involving class i antiarrhythmic agents indicate that agents acting by depression of cardiac conduction are either devoid of effect or produce a modest increase in mortality . results of the cardiac arrhythmia suppression trial , employing the newer class i agents flecainide and encainide , were used to determine whether the suppression of premature ventricular contractions in the survivors of acute mi reduces mortality . flecainide and encainide suppressed premature ventricular contractions greater than 80 % , but resulted in an increased mortality rate undoubtedly due to a marked proarrhythmic effect . whether these data can be extrapolated to all class i agents is uncertain . preliminary data with class iii antiarrhythmic agents suggest that these agents , especially amiodarone , similarly to beta blockers , have the potential to reduce mortality in survivors of mi . evolving data suggest that in the secondary prevention of morbid events in the survivors of acute mi , the focus must shift away from antiarrhythmic agents that delay conduction and toward beta blockers and antifibrillatory actions resulting from a prolongation of refractoriness . 
atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and sudden deaths among young adults in wayne county . based on postmortem records at the wayne county medical examiners ' office from 1982 to 1986 , autopsy results indicated that the deaths of 129 persons aged 20-34 resulted from heart disease : 51 of these deaths were attributed to atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease ( ascvd ) , 29 to hypertensive cardiovascular disease , 28 to cardiomyopathy , and 21 to other cardiac causes . the majority of the deaths due to ascvd occurred among men , both black and white , followed by black women , and the incidence increased with age . all of these deaths due to ascvd were sudden and accounted for all deaths due to ischemic heart disease in this age group among wayne county residents . diabetes mellitus , left ventricular hypertrophy , a history of seizures , and the recent ingestion of alcohol were all found to be associated with sudden death from ascvd in this group . obesity did not seem to be a significant factor . these data suggest that ascvd is not rare as a cause of death in young adults and some of the risk factors identified in older subjects also operate in this age group . 
heart weights of white men 20 to 39 years of age . an analysis of 218 autopsy cases . review of autopsy data for 218 white men between 20 and 39 years of age who died of injuries or suddenly and unexpectedly indicated a mean heart weight of 371 g. the mean for those dying of external causes was 364 g whereas the mean for those dying of natural causes was 446 g. a coefficient for heart weight expressed as a percentage of body weight was lower in heavy individuals than lightweight individuals ; it ranged between 0.38 % and 0.55 % , with a mean of 0.48 % . heart weight , including epicardial fat , increased with age and body weight . these data may be useful to those who are called upon to investigate sudden and unexpected deaths . 
cardiac conducting tissue . a simplified technique for examination of the sa and av nodes . we describe a modified method for examination of the atrioventricular and sinoatrial nodes that displays the major elements of the cardiac conducting system , yet is not time-consuming for the technician . we examined 31 cases in three categories : cases with previous cardiac history , sudden deaths from no known cause , and cases where death was sudden and accidental . all cases showed histologic abnormalities in the cardiac tissue . we contend that our method would permit such examination to be routinely used in the pathology laboratory . 
sudden death due to right ventricular cardiomyopathy . a 21-year-old man died suddenly at a small party . he had had no clinical signs of cardiac disease except for a slightly abnormal electrocardiogram ( occasional premature ventricular contractions ) since he was 15 years of age . autopsy examination revealed cardiomegaly ( 469 g ) , with right atrial and ventricular dilatation . the right ventricular myocardium was massively replaced with adipose tissue , and there was one isolated fatty lesion in the right side of the ventricular septum . there were no congenital malformations such as a septal defect or valvular deformity . histologically , muscular fibers remaining in the right ventricular wall showed neither degenerative nor inflammatory changes . an isolated lesion of the ventricular septum consisted of almost complete replacement of the muscle bundles with adipose tissue . such a pathologic condition has recently been termed right ventricular cardiomyopathy . postmortem examination is necessary to make a definite diagnosis of the disease , because in most adult cases of the disease , sudden death occurs before there have been any critical signs . 
hepatic giant cavernous hemangioma with microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and consumption coagulopathy . we describe a case of hepatic giant cavernous hemangioma with both microangiopathic hemolytic anemia ( maha ) and consumption coagulopathy , but without thrombocytopenia , which was completely cured by surgical resection of the tumor . the patient was a 54-yr-old japanese woman whose chief complaint was right upper abdominal discomfort . angiography and dynamic computed tomography revealed typical findings of hepatic cavernous hemangioma . the patient also had hematological disorders . at surgery , we performed an atypical right lobectomy to preserve as much normal liver tissue as possible . the patient has been well , with no related complaints or abnormal laboratory findings , 5 yr since her operation . this case indicates that giant cavernous hemangioma of the liver should be considered in the differential diagnosis of maha , and if surgical treatment is adequate , hematological abnormalities may be eliminated . 
overview : renal physiology and pathophysiology of aging . cross-sectional studies in humans have suggested that there is a progressive decline of renal function with age after 40 years . the decline in various functions ( eg , tubular maximums , concentrating and diluting abilities , and acidification ) tend to parallel the decreases in glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) and renal blood ( plasma ) flow ( rpf ) . recent observations from the baltimore longitudinal study of aging suggest that not all individuals follow this pattern , and that , indeed , many show no decline and some even an increase in their renal function over time . whether the observed decreases in renal function with aging are the results of intervening pathologic processes , eg , immunologic , infectious , and toxic injury and ischemia , or can be related to hyperperfusion and hyperfiltration with resultant glomerulosclerosis , or to some other relentless involutional process , remains unclear . the purpose of this report is to review the descriptive studies documenting the changes in renal morphology and physiology with age and to discuss what is known about mechanisms involved in these losses of renal substance and function . 
systolic hypertension in the elderly : reasons not to treat . isolated systolic hypertension in the elderly is associated with increased morbidity and mortality . accurate measurement of blood pressure in older patients is difficult . therapy can be associated with various complications , and the special problems of the elderly , such as orthostatic hypotension and hyperkalemia , should be carefully considered . drugs should be used in low doses and changes in dosage should be made infrequently . patients should be monitored frequently for untoward effects of therapy . the benefits of blood pressure reduction and the optimal degree of blood pressure reduction remain unknown . 
dialysis considerations in the elderly patient . this brief review discusses several aspects of dialytic care pertinent to the older dialysis patient . heart disease , nutrition , and the quality of life for these patients are considered . 
prevention of renal disease and conservation of renal function . in summary , we have reviewed some of the most frequently encountered areas of prevention of renal failure in the elderly . they include obstruction , hypertension , drug interaction , and inappropriate use of drugs and the silent killer of the elderly , renal carcinoma . only by a thorough understanding of the altered physiology of the aging kidney can the physician avoid making the same mistakes when new drugs are developed or new types of diseases are encountered . proper early diagnosis and understanding the guidelines to therapy in these conditions , can save huge human costs in terms of mortality , morbidity , and money . 
calcium channel blockers versus angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors : renal effects . angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitors and calcium channel blockers are two classes of antihypertensive agents with novel effects on renal function . in both experimental and clinical studies , calcium channel blockers tend to increase renal blood flow , glomerular filtration rate , and urinary sodium excretion in essential hypertension . ace inhibitors have similar effects on renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate in essential hypertension , but they tend to cause sodium retention . ace inhibitors can cause marked reductions in glomerular filtration rate in renovascular hypertension , making them a problematic choice for the treatment of this form of hypertension . in chronic , progressive renal diseases , ace inhibitors have been shown to decrease protein excretion and morphologic evidence of glomerulosclerosis . the relationship of the decrease in protein excretion to the progression of renal disease has not yet been established . 
diabetes mellitus and hypertension . hypertension and diabetes mellitus are chronic medical conditions that frequently coexist . in the united states , it is estimated that 10 million persons suffer from diabetes mellitus , 60 million from hypertension , and 3 million from the combination of the two . there may be a causal relationship between hypertension and diabetes . obesity may be a precipitating factor for both hypertension and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . those with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus generally become hypertensive only with the onset of nephropathy . glucose tolerance , insulin resistance , and hyperinsulinemia frequently occur with essential hypertension and may be aggravated by hypertension therapy , especially with diuretics and beta-blockers . hyperinsulinemia may be an important common factor promoting sodium retention , sympathetic nervous system stimulation , and inhibition of the sodium pump . the working group on hypertension in diabetes has outlined a flexible modified version of the stepped-care approach to the treatment of hypertension in diabetes . management is complex because diabetes is associated with autonomic neuropathy , sexual dysfunction , hyperlipidemia , and fluid and electrolyte disorders . all these problems can be exacerbated by antihypertensive treatment . nonpharmacologic measures , which address weight reduction and sodium restriction , are logical , but aggressive antihypertensive medication is invariably necessary . diuretics and/or beta-blockers were the mainstay of treatment until the introduction of angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitors and calcium channel blockers . these newer agents have no deleterious effects on carbohydrate metabolism and are generally better tolerated . antihypertensive therapy may slow the rate of deterioration in diabetic nephropathy . this was first shown with diuretics , beta-blockers , and hydralazine and more recently with ace inhibitors , which provide effective blood pressure control and a significant drop in albuminuria without affecting the glomerular filtration rate adversely . ace inhibition may also lead to increased insulin sensitivity and glucose disposal rate . long-term trials are needed to assess the effects of these new agents on the treatment of hypertension in the diabetic population . 
cardiac contractility and conduction : a comparison of antihypertensives . the four classes of first-line antihypertensive agents recommended in the 1988 report of the joint national committee on detection , evaluation , and treatment of high blood pressure are reviewed here . particular consideration is given to the effects of these agents on heart rate , atrioventricular nodal conduction , and myocardial contractility in patients with other cardiovascular diseases . diuretics and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors have no significant direct effects on cardiac function . beta-blockers inhibit catecholamine stimulation of the heart and may be particularly beneficial in treating patients with a history of myocardial infarction . calcium channel blockers reduce blood pressure by dilating arterial resistance vessels . they are structurally heterogeneous and highly selective in their sites of action . as a consequence , cardiac effects can be minimized by selecting a calcium channel blocker with more potent peripheral vasodilatory effects . a new calcium channel blocker , isradipine , currently undergoing clinical trials , is highly selective for arterial smooth muscle and appears to be a safe and effective antihypertensive agent . 
hypertension : racial differences . racial differences in the prevalence , course , and pathophysiologic characteristics of hypertension in black and white populations are reviewed . accumulated epidemiologic data indicate that the prevalence of hypertension among blacks is greater than that among whites in almost all age - and sex-matched groups . hypertensive blacks have a higher incidence of left ventricular dysfunction , stroke , and renal damage , but a lower incidence of ischemic heart disease , than do hypertensive whites . a significant pathophysiologic difference between blacks and whites is salt sensitivity ; normotensive , as well as hypertensive , blacks tend to be salt sensitive . blacks also tend to have lower renin levels than do whites , while dopamine response to a salt load is diminished among blacks as compared with whites . these differences and others lead to the recommendation that hypertension among blacks should be managed initially with salt restriction ; if dietary control is insufficient , administration of an antihypertensive agent with 24-hour efficacy , which lowers vascular peripheral resistance , promotes sodium excretion , and potentially improves renal hemodynamics , is recommended . a calcium channel blocker may satisfy these requirements . 
diet , smoking , and alcohol : influence on coronary heart disease risk . the framingham study on coronary heart disease ( chd ) has shown that life-style , particularly diet , smoking , and alcohol consumption , has a great impact on the incidence of chd . blood lipoproteins , rather than total blood cholesterol , have been found to be more accurate predictors of chd risk . blood triglyceride , previously considered to have little bearing on chd risk , was found to have a negative impact in many cases . a population subgroup with high triglyceride greater than or equal to 1.7 mmol/l ( greater than or equal to 150 mg/dl ) , low high-density lipoprotein less than or equal to 1.04 mmol/l ( less than or equal to 40 mg/dl ) , increased insulin resistance , and a higher incidence of diabetes mellitus has been found to be at increased risk for chd . diet intervention trials have shown that a reduction in total cholesterol and saturated fat consumption produced reduction in chd incidence proportionate to the fall in cholesterol . cigarette smoking increased chd risk moderately ; those who smoked one pack per day had twice the risk of nonsmokers . alcohol consumption actually lowered chd incidence in the framingham study ; however , when alcohol consumption was greater than two drinks per day , a rise in mortality from cancer and stroke was observed . 
further mapping of an ataxia-telangiectasia locus to the chromosome 11q23 region . we recently mapped the gene for ataxia-telangiectasia group a ( ata ) to chromosome 11q22-23 by linkage analysis , using the genetic markers thy1 and pynb3 .12 ( d11s144 ) . the most likely order was cent-at-s144-thy1 . the present paper describes further mapping of the at locus by means of a panel of 10 markers that span approximately 60 cm in the 11q22-23 region centered around s144 and thy1 . location scores indicate that three contiguous subsegments within the [ s144-thy1 ] segment , as well as three contiguous segments telomeric to thy1 , are each unlikely to contain the at locus , while the more centromeric [ stmy-s144 ] segment is most likely to contain the at locus . these data , together with recent refinements in the linkage and physical maps of 11q22-23 , place the at locus at 11q23 . 
treatment of wegener 's granulomatosis with intermittent high-dose intravenous cyclophosphamide purpose : concerns regarding the long-term toxicity of daily cyclophosphamide ( cp ) therapy for the systemic vasculitides have led us to evaluate alternative approaches to treatment in an attempt to achieve comparable efficacy with less toxicity . this study sought to determine the efficacy , toxicity , and immunologic effects of glucocorticoids ( gc ) and intermittent high-dose intravenous cp ( " pulse " cp ) in the treatment of 14 patients with wegener 's granulomatosis ( wg ) . patients and methods : the diagnosis of active wg was supported by a typical clinical presentation and histopathologic findings of vasculitis , granulomatous inflammation , and tissue necrosis . gc treatment was initially provided on a daily basis and later tapered to an alternate-day schedule if vasculitis remained inactive . pulse cp treatment was initially administered once a month for 6 months . if after 6 months remission had been attained and gc therapy had been discontinued , then pulse cp treatment was given at less frequent intervals thereafter . treatment and evaluation were provided for participants as inpatients in a clinical research center ( national institutes of health ) . results : thirteen of 14 patients ( 93 % ) initially experienced unequivocal improvement with pulse cp therapy , and seven of 14 ( 50 % ) achieved remission within 4 months . however , treatment was associated with significant toxicity in two patients and later relapses in nine patients , so that a total of 79 % either failed to achieve sustained remission or were unable to continue therapy . three of 14 ( 21 % ) patients have achieved sustained remissions with the pulse cp protocol and one additional patient ( who had a limited exacerbation of wg ) continues to receive that therapy after 14 to 22 months ( mean 17 months ) . conclusions : the use of pulse cp and gc therapy in 14 patients with wg was associated with a high initial response rate . however , failure to respond initially to treatment , to sustain improvement , or to tolerate continued treatment was noted in 79 % of patients within a period of 1 to 22 months . these observations indicate that this particular pulse cp protocol does not achieve a high degree of lasting efficacy . 
digitalis-like activity in human plasma : relation to blood pressure and sodium balance . purpose : on the assumption that renal tubular cells are more important as the target cells for a natriuretic factor than blood cells , we used a well-characterized cultured renal tubular cell line , madin-darby canine kidney ( mdck ) , cells to monitor the circulating digitalis-like factor in human plasma and examine its role in the regulation of blood pressure and sodium balance . subjects and methods : we investigated the effects of plasma on binding of radioactive ouabain to monolayered mdck cells in order to determine the level of a circulating digitalis-like factor . first , we measured specific 3h-ouabain binding to mdck cells in the presence of plasma from 71 outpatients ( 34 normotensive subjects and 37 hypertensive patients ) after incubation for 4 hours . second , we measured specific 3h-ouabain binding after incubation of cells with plasma from 16 hospitalized subjects ( eight normotensive subjects and eight hypertensive patients ) receiving low and high sodium diets . results : in study 1 , ouabain binding was lower by 30 % with plasma from hypertensive patients than with plasma from normotensive subjects ( p less than 0.01 ) . there was a significant negative correlation between individual subject 's systolic or mean blood pressure and ouabain binding ( r = -0.34 , p less than 0.01 or r = -0.29 , p less than 0.01 ) . in study 2 , ouabain binding was also significantly reduced by 25 % in the presence of plasma from hypertensive subjects as compared with plasma from normotensive subjects irrespective of sodium intake ( p less than 0.01 ) . a significant negative correlation was also found for all subjects between either systolic , diastolic , or mean blood pressure and ouabain binding ( r = -0.58 , p less than 0.01 , r = -0.51 , p less than 0.01 , or r = -0.55 , p less than 0.01 , respectively ) . with the changes from low to high sodium intake , there was a corresponding decrease in ouabain binding ( p less than 0.01 ) and an increase in sodium excretion ( p less than 0.01 ) . a significant negative correlation was observed between these two parameters ( r = -0.47 , p less than 0.05 ) . conclusions : these findings suggest that a circulating digitalis-like factor , which may act on renal tubular cells as the ouabain-displacing compound , is increased in patients with essential hypertension and also demonstrate that plasma levels may be influenced by changes in dietary sodium intake . 
cardiorespiratory effects of endoscopic esophageal variceal sclerotherapy . endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy ( evs ) is an effective means of controlling variceal hemorrhage , which develops as a consequence of portal hypertension . while esophageal perforation , ulceration , strictures , and mediastinitis are potential complications associated with this procedure , it is not clear whether isolated pleuropulmonary events such as pleuritis , pneumonitis , and adult respiratory distress syndrome are causally related to the evs . endoscopy and sedation with the attendant risk of aspiration , particularly in the background of hepatic encephalopathy , may account for some of these events . recent controlled studies of respiratory function demonstrate that evs as such results in minor changes in gas exchange , lung volumes , and pulmonary and systemic hemodynamics . most pulmonary complications have been reported with the use of sodium morrhuate sclerosant . comparative studies among different sclerosants are necessary to evaluate relative safety . finally , there have been rare reports of myocardial ischemia and pericarditis reported in association with evs , but these are of a transient nature . chest symptoms , roentgenographic pleuropulmonary changes , pulmonary hemodynamics , and cardiac perturbations are transient and should not preclude offering evs to patients with variceal hemorrhage . 
the natural history of thrombocytopenia associated with preeclampsia . sixty-one of 375 women with hypertension and preeclampsia in a 48-month period had thrombocytopenia . by postpartum day 3 , 90 % of these women had rising platelet counts , and by day 4 , 59 of 61 women had counts greater than 100,000 / mm3 . the two exceptions had other pathologic conditions in addition to preeclampsia . thrombocytopenia associated with preeclampsia should resolve by postpartum day 4 . 
pregnancy-induced hypertension and acute fatty liver of pregnancy : atypical presentations . severe pregnancy-induced hypertension and markedly elevated levels of serum alkaline phosphatase developed in a 29-year-old-woman in whom one pregnancy resulted in intrauterine death . acute fatty liver of pregnancy developed with good fetal outcome in the next pregnancy . this case suggests that pregnancy-induced hypertension and acute fatty liver of pregnancy are part of a clinical spectrum . moreover , classic abnormalities of liver function tests need not be present in acute fatty liver of pregnancy . 
effects of hypertension on pregnancy monitoring and results . the effect of severity of hypertension on fetal heart rate tracing changes and neonatal outcomes was evaluated on all patients with hypertension seen in 1980 and 1981 ( 666 cases , 10 % of the pregnant population ) in the chicago-lying in hospital . the patients were grouped according to severity of hypertension , and the fetal heart rate monitoring , drugs administered , mode of delivery , and neonatal outcome were analyzed . half of the patients ( 326 ) had mild hypertension and 13 % ( 87 ) had severe hypertension ; the remainder ( 253 ) had moderate hypertension . there were 49 % primiparous and 51 % multiparous women . the diagnosis of preeclampsia was made in 76 % of cases , and chronic hypertension in 19 % . only 12 % of the total were premature by dates , but 47 % of this group were among the severe group . oxytocin was given to 50 % , whereas delivery was spontaneous in 56 % of cases , and by cesarean section in 22 % . this was higher among the severe hypertension group ( 37 % ) , and the prematurity rate was 47 % . nonstress testing was done in one third of cases and only nonreactivity was associated with neonatal death . neonatal depression ( apgar score less than 6 at 5 minutes ) was significantly associated with intrapartum fixed baseline and late decelerations ; these were the best predictors of fetal outcome . the administration of magnesium sulfate , hydralazine , meperidine , or morphine did not predictably affect the fetal heart rate pattern . the perinatal mortality was 21 % in the mild group and 36 % and 138 % , respectively , among moderate and severe cases of hypertension . close antepartum and intrapartum surveillance , including proper fetal monitoring , should help to reduce risks for mother and fetus through timely intervention . 
hypoxic acidemia , hyperviscosity , and maternal hypertension do not affect the umbilical arterial velocity waveform in fetal sheep . the effect of hypoxic acidemia , hyperviscosity , and maternal hypertension on the umbilical arterial velocity waveform was studied in 23 chronically catheterized fetal sheep . fetal hypoxic acidemia induced by lowering the maternal inspired oxygen concentration ( n = 7 ) caused no change in the ratio of systolic/diastolic blood velocity even when fetal arterial ph was as low as 6.8 . fetal blood hyperviscosity ( n = 7 ) induced by exchange transfusion with packed maternal blood cells increased placental vascular resistance by greater than or equal to 50 % but had no significant effect on the systolic/diastolic ratio . similarly , maternal hypertension induced by intravenous infusion of angiotensin ii to the ewe ( n = 9 ) did not affect the systolic/diastolic ratio despite a 50 % increase in maternal arterial blood pressure . we conclude that umbilical arterial velocity waveform abnormalities observed in growth-restricted human fetuses are probably not a direct result of fetal hypoxemia or hyperviscosity or maternal hypertension . 
fetal and maternal response to intravenous infusion of a thromboxane synthetase inhibitor . pharmacologic inhibition of thromboxane synthetase activity has reversed the clinical manifestations of toxemia in the ovine model . to investigate placental transfer and fetal effects of a selective thromboxane synthetase inhibitor , cgs13080 ( ciba-geigy , summit , n.j. ) was intravenously infused into eight singleton - or twin-bearing ewes near term . during cgs 13080 infusion ( 0.1 mg/kg/hr ) , maternal steady-state cgs 13080 levels of 102 + / - 18 ng/ml were achieved within 30 minutes and maternal serum thromboxane generation decreased significantly ( 13 + / - 3 to 4 + / - 1 ng/ml ) . however , fetal serum levels of cgs 13080 were only 4 % of peak maternal concentrations and fetal serum thromboxane generation did not change . there was no evidence of change in uterine blood flow , maternal or fetal blood pressure , heart rate , blood gas values , or fetal or maternal metabolites of prostacyclin or prostaglandin e2 during the study . we speculate that cgs 13080 may be efficacious in the treatment of human pregnancy-induced hypertension . 
oral contraceptives , lipoproteins , and atherosclerosis . a nonhuman primate model was developed to study the effects of oral contraceptives on lipoproteins and atherosclerosis . cynomolgus macaques were selected because of their susceptibility to diet-induced atherosclerosis and because their reproductive physiology , menstrual cycle , and circulating sex hormone patterns are similar to those of human females . the first study compared a vaginal ring containing levonorgestrel and estradiol with an oral contraceptive containing norgestrel and ethinyl estradiol . a second study compared two oral combinations : norgestrel-ethinyl estradiol and ethynodiol diacetate-ethinyl estradiol . as predicted , use of all the contraceptives led to lowering of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels . however , contrary to what might be expected , use of the ethinyl estradiol-containing oral contraceptives did not lead to an increase in the prevalence or extent of atherosclerosis . we concluded that ethinyl estradiol neutralized the atherogenic influence of the progestin component of oral contraceptives . 
oral contraceptives and myocardial infarction . the risk of myocardial infarction in contraceptive users is limited to women over 35 years of age who smoke . the cause of myocardial infarction in oral contraceptive users is thrombotic and not atherosclerotic . minor lipid changes have no clinical relevance to myocardial infarction in contraceptive pill users and do not appear to increase coronary plaques . 
crohn 's disease and retinal vascular disease . patients with crohn 's disease may manifest extraintestinal findings including ocular involvement . we treated two patients with crohn 's disease who manifested retinal vascular disease that may have been related to the immune nature of the underlying disease or possibly to changes in the vasculature or coagulation system . one patient had a central retinal vein occlusion and the other had retinal vasculitis involving retinal arteries and veins with an apparent branch retinal artery occlusion . both patients were in excellent health except for crohn 's disease , which was confirmed by a biopsy specimen . in one patient , the diagnosis of retinal vasculitis preceded the clinical diagnosis of crohn 's disease , whereas for the second patient the symptomatology of the intestinal disease preceded the ocular manifestations . we suggest that inflammatory bowel disease should be considered in the differential diagnosis of retinal vascular occlusive disease , especially in a young patient . 
immunohistochemical study of fibronectin in experimental myocardial infarction . light microscopic immunohistochemical studies were performed to evaluate the distribution of fibronectin in paraffin sections of p-formaldehyde-fixed normal rat hearts and the hearts of rats that had undergone ligation of the left coronary artery . a peroxidase-labeled antibody technique was used , together with appropriate immunohistochemical control procedures , for the localization of fibronectin in normal hearts and in the hearts of sham-operated animals . fibronectin was localized in the interstitial space between myocytes , and beneath arterial , venous , and capillary endothelium . at 4 hours after coronary ligation , fibronectin was localized in a patchy fashion in the cytoplasm and interstitial space of some of the myocytes in the area supplied by the ligated vessel . at 24 hours , there was more intense , homogeneous staining in necrotic myocytes in the infarcted area and in the capillary endothelium in the border zone . at 48 hours , the intensity of staining for fibronectin was maximal in and between the necrotic myocytes in the center of the infarct and in proliferating and migrating capillaries and fibroblasts in the border zone . similar patterns of localization were observed at 3 and 7 days after coronary ligation , but with progressive decreases in the intensity of staining . two sources of fibronectin appeared to have contributed to these changes : plasma fibronectin diffusing through damaged blood vessels would account for the early staining observed in necrotic myocytes in the center of the infarct , whereas de novo synthesis of fibronectin by connective tissue cells and endothelial cells in sprouting capillaries would be responsible for the subsequent staining observed in viable capillaries in the border zone of the infarct . known properties of fibronectin in vitro , combined with these in vivo observations , indicate that fibronectin may influence the thrombotic , inflammatory , angiogenic , and fibrotic processes involved in infarct healing . 
accelerated arteriosclerosis in heart transplant recipients is associated with a t-lymphocyte-mediated endothelialitis . accelerated arteriosclerosis has emerged as a major life-threatening complication in long-term survivors of heart transplantation . it has been proposed that accelerated arteriosclerosis is an immune-mediated complication of rejection . we observed a striking endothelialitis in the coronary arteries of two explanted hearts obtained from patients with severe transplant-related accelerated arteriosclerosis . this finding prompted us to review the pathologic changes in the coronary arteries of 23 autopsied patients who had received heart transplants . the infiltrate in these vessels was characterized using immunohistochemical stains for lymphocytes ( cd45 ) , macrophages ( mac-387 ) , t lymphocytes ( cd45ro ) , b lymphocytes ( l-26 ) , and smooth muscle cells ( actin ) . in addition , a full panel of monoclonal antibodies was used on the fresh-frozen tissue available from one of the two explanted hearts . ten of the eleven recipients with accelerated arteriosclerosis had a moderate to marked lymphocytic endothelialitis compared to 3 of 14 without transplant-related arteriosclerosis ( p less than 0.005 ) . immunohistochemical staining of the paraffin-embedded material demonstrated that most of the lymphocytes in the subendothelial space of these vessels were t lymphocytes and that this infiltrate was associated with an accumulation of macrophages and a proliferation of smooth muscle cells in the intima . in the explanted heart from which fresh-frozen tissue was available for more detailed cell typing , the t cells marked predominantly as cytotoxic t lymphocytes ( cd8 + , cd2 + ) . these results suggest that accelerated arteriosclerosis may be mediated , in part , by a cytotoxic t-lymphocyte-directed endothelialitis . 
panic disorder and cardiovascular/cerebrovascular problems : results from a community survey . follow-up studies of psychiatric patients with panic disorder have shown an abnormally high mortality rate in men due to cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events . the authors report that in the new haven portion of the epidemiologic catchment area program the risk for stroke in persons with lifetime diagnoses of panic disorder was over twice that in persons with other psychiatric disorders or no psychiatric disorder . after adjustments for demographic differences between groups , the risk was even higher . while the results should be interpreted cautiously because of the small sample and absence of medical examinations , these findings are consistent with clinical studies showing an association between panic disorder and cardiovascular/cerebrovascular events . 
does isoflurane lead to a higher incidence of myocardial infarction and perioperative death than enflurane in coronary artery surgery ? a clinical study of 1178 patients to examine if the choice of volatile agents influences cardiac outcome in coronary artery surgery , 1178 patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass grafting without additional operations received enflurane ( 608 ) or isoflurane ( 570 ) as their primary anesthetics . the inspired concentration of volatile agent ( administered with 50 % nitrous oxide ) was adjusted depending on the level of blood pressure at the discretion of the anesthesiologist . in addition to the volatile agent assigned , each patient received small doses of fentanyl at induction and before sternotomy ( total 0.006-0 .008 mg/kg ) . the groups did not differ in preoperative and surgical characteristics except for a more frequent history of renal dysfunction in patients given isoflurane . the rates of postoperative myocardial infarction , administration of positive inotropic agents at the time of weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass , and in-hospital deaths in the enflurane and isoflurane groups were 1.8 % and 4.0 % ( p less than 0.05 ) , 4.9 % and 8.1 % ( p less than 0.05 % ) , and 0.3 % and 2.1 % ( p less than 0.01 ) , respectively . although the mechanism of the adverse effects of isoflurane could not be clarified in this study , these results demonstrate that the use of isoflurane could be inappropriate in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting . 
hemodynamic effects of diltiazem during vasoconstrictor pulmonary hypertension in sheep . calcium channel blockers have been effective as pulmonary vasodilators in patients with pulmonary hypertension . the current study therefore compared the effects of prostaglandin e1 , an effective pulmonary vasodilator , with the effects of the water-soluble calcium channel blocker diltiazem during pulmonary hypertension in sheep . pulmonary hypertension was produced by continuous intravenous administration of u46619 to halothane-anesthetized sheep . prostaglandin e1 decreased pulmonary artery pressure 29 % , decreased pulmonary vascular resistance ( rp ) 57 % , and did not affect the ratio of pulmonary to systemic vascular resistance ( rp/rs ) . diltiazem decreased pulmonary artery pressure 15 % , decreased rp 50 % , and did not affect rp/rs . when 0.33 ml/kg polyethylene glycol-ethanol vehicle ( the vehicle used for nifedipine administration in a prior study ) was administered during diltiazem infusion , pulmonary artery pressure increased 19 % , rp increased 72 % , and rp/rs increased 29 % . these results indicate that diltiazem is an effective pulmonary vasodilator and suggest that the previously reported unfavorable results of nifedipine may have been due to the vehicle used for nifedipine administration . 
changes in cerebral blood flow velocity after release of intraoperative tourniquets in humans : a transcranial doppler study . the effect of release of intraoperative thigh tourniquets on velocity of blood flow in the middle cerebral artery was examined in five patients given general anesthesia with controlled ventilation for lower extremity orthopedic procedures using transcranial doppler sonography . middle cerebral artery blood flow velocity increased significantly from 52 + / - 6 ( sem ) to 82 + / - 24 cm/s ( an increase of 58 % + / - 13 % ) within 4 + / - 1 min after tourniquet release and remained significantly elevated for 7 min . a positive linear correlation was found between middle cerebral artery blood flow velocity and petco2 on each occasion ( 0.97 greater than or equal to r greater than or equal to 0.84 , 0.001 greater than p greater than 0.0001 ) after tourniquet deflation . assuming a linear relationship between flow velocity and flow , these findings suggest that significant increase in cerebral blood flow can occur after intraoperative tourniquet release and that this increase appears to be mostly co2-dependent . 
cardioprotective effects of carnitine in extensive aortocoronary bypass grafting : a double-blind , randomized , placebo-controlled clinical trial . the cardioprotective effects of carnitine were tested in patients undergoing multiple aortocoronary bypass grafting . intermittent aortic cross-clamping at 28 degrees c was used . mean total cross-clamping time was 30 + / - 11 min . patients were randomized into three groups : a control group receiving placebo ( group 1 ) , a group pretreated with 3 g carnitine intravenously before cardiopulmonary bypass ( cpb ) ( group 2 ) , and a group pretreated with 6 g carnitine intravenously ( group 3 ) . the markers of myocardial ischemia included levels of adenosine triphosphate , its catabolites , and creatine phosphate in transmural left ventricular biopsy specimens taken at the beginning and end of cpb , as well as hemodynamic recovery during weaning from cpb and for the next 24 h. the intravenous infusion of carnitine ( 3 or 6 g ) had no hemodynamic effect . at the end of cpb myocardial tissue levels of adenosine triphosphate and creatine phosphate did not differ significantly among the groups ( p greater than 0.05 ) . recovery of cardiac function during weaning from cpb and for the following 24 h was similar in all three groups ( p greater than 0.05 ) . it is concluded that pretreatment with carnitine neither facilitates weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass in patients undergoing aortocoronary bypass surgery nor favorably affects hemodynamic function during the next 24 h. 
the " natural history " of segmental wall motion abnormalities in patients undergoing noncardiac surgery . s.p.i. research group . intraoperative segmental wall motion abnormalities ( swma ) detected by transesophageal echocardiography ( tee ) are sensitive , but not always specific , markers of myocardial ischemia . to determine their incidence , characteristics , and relation to postoperative cardiac morbidity , we continuously recorded the left ventricular short-axis view and 12-lead ecg in 156 high-risk patients undergoing non-cardiac surgery . monitoring was clinically blinded . wall motion was scored at predefined clinical , hemodynamic , and ecg events and at periodic intervals ( 26 + / - 11 samples per patient ) . we detected 44 episodes of new or worsened swma in 32 patients ( 20 % ) . the severity of most episodes was limited to severe hypokinesis ( 24/44 , 55 % ) followed by akinesis ( 16/44 , 36 % ) and dyskinesis ( 4/44 , 9 % ) . the remaining 124 patients had normal wall motion or only mild hypokinesis ( 56/156 , 36 % ) or chronic swma ( 68/156 , 44 % ) . the incidence of new swma did not differ for patients with known coronary artery disease ( cad ) and those with cardiac risk factors only ( 22 % vs. 19 % , p = not significant ) , although cad patients had a significantly greater incidence of chronic swma ( 62 % vs. 41 % , p = 0.02 ) . the incidence of new or worsened swma was significantly greater during aortic vascular surgery ( 38 % vs. 17 % , p = 0.05 ) . approximately 40 % of all new tee changes occurred in the absence of either an apparent clinical event or a significant change in systolic blood pressure or heart rate . ten patients had new or worsened swma persisting until the end of surgery , 8 with new akinesis , only 1 developing myocardial infarction . the distribution of new or worsened swma and significant intraoperative st-t changes ( n = 19 ) in this cohort was discordant : temporal overlap between modalities was present in only 5 patients . major cardiac complications occurred in 5 patients ( 3.2 % ) , all of whom underwent peripheral vascularization . all patients with cardiac complications and new or worsened swma also had intraoperative or early postoperative st-t changes . we conclude that : 1 ) continuous tee recording with offline analysis in this high-risk group of patients revealed a relatively low incidence of new or worsened swma ( 20 % ) , most episodes of which were characterized by severe hypokinesis ( 55 % ) ; 2 ) episodes were more common in patients undergoing aortic vascular surgery ; 3 ) approximately 40 % of episodes were unaccompanied by clinical events or significant hemodynamic changes ; 4 ) episodes were poorly correlated with postoperative cardiac complications ; and 5 ) the discordant relation between tee and ecg changes observed here necessitates careful monitoring of the ecg when tee is used clinically . 
nitrous oxide does not alter infarct volume in rats undergoing reversible middle cerebral artery occlusion . this experiment was designed to determine if nitrous oxide alters neurologic and pathologic outcome from temporary focal cerebral ischemia in spontaneously hypertensive rats deeply anesthetized with a barbiturate . two groups of rats were given intravenous methohexital such that a stable eeg pattern of burst suppression was achieved . in one group of rats ( n = 11 ) , the lungs were mechanically ventilated with 70 % n2o/30 % o2 , and in the other group ( n = 10 ) , ventilation was done with 70 % nitrogen/30 % o2 . the middle cerebral artery was then occluded for 2 h , during which time mean arterial pressure , blood gases , hematocrit , plasma glucose , and head temperature were held constant between groups . the total doses of methohexital administered were similar in both groups as were the plasma methohexital concentrations immediately prior to onset of ischemia . after reperfusion of the middle cerebral artery , the animals were allowed to awaken . neurologic evaluations were performed prior to ischemia and at 24 and 96 h postischemia . cerebral infarct volume was measured at 96 h postischemia using triphenyl tetrazolium chloride staining and computer imaging techniques . there were no neurologic differences between the n2o and nitrogen groups at any experimental interval although both groups exhibited deficits at both 24 and 96 h postischemia relative to preischemic values . the two groups also had nearly identical cerebral infarct volumes ( n2o = 231 + / - 97 mm3 ; nitrogen = 226 + / - 75 mm3 ; mean + / - sd ) . 
endogenous vasopressin supports blood pressure and prevents severe hypotension during epidural anesthesia in conscious dogs . to evaluate whether , and to what extent , release of endogenous vasopressin supports blood pressure when efferent sympathetic drive is blocked by epidural anesthesia , the authors studied the effects of high epidural anesthesia alone and when vasopressin was prevented from acting at its vascular ( v1 ) - receptor in six awake , trained , unsedated dogs . on different days , the same dose of 0.5 % bupivacaine ( 8-13 ml ) was injected epidurally in a randomized fashion either in the presence or absence of ( v1 ) - vasopressin receptor blockade , and the effects were evaluated on cardiovascular ( arterial blood pressure , heart rate ) and respiratory ( blood gases , oxygen consumption ) variables , and on plasma concentrations of vasopressin and renin . results were also contrasted to those obtained after epidural injection of saline alone ( placebo ) in the same dogs . when endogenous vasopressin was prevented from acting by intravenous pretreatment with a specific v1-receptor antagonist ( beta-mercapto-beta , beta-cyclopenta-methylene-propionyl-o-me-tyr-arg-vasopressin ) , epidural anesthesia resulted in a rapid and sustained 35 % decrease in mean arterial blood pressure from 92 mmhg + / - 5 se to 60 mmhg + / - 4 . in contrast , only a 14 % decrease in mean blood pressure from 92 mmhg + / - 5 to 79 mm hg + / - 6 was noted after epidural anesthesia alone . this difference between groups was statistically significant ( p = 0.0001 ) . the v1-receptor blockade alone had no detectable effect . vasopressin plasma concentrations significantly increased from 3.4 + / - 0.3 pg.ml-1 to 16.2 + / - 3.2 pg.ml-1 after epidural anesthesia but did not change after epidural saline . 
experimental and clinical percutaneous angioscopy experience with dynamic angioplasty . the authors have used ultrathin angioscopes with high optical resolution to assess the effects of dynamic angioplasty in vitro and in vivo . experimentally , angioscopy was used to study the effects of the 5f " kensey " catheter in " normal " porcine coronary arteries ( npca ) and postmortem human coronary arteries ( pmhca ) . in npca , the catheter keeps a coaxial position . intimal flaps ( ifs ) were seen in 21/23 npcas . they occurred with all cam rotation speeds and were usually single and small ( less than 25 % of lumen ) . perforations in patent arteries were rare ( 1/23 ) . however , when the catheter was forced against the wall by passing through a narrowing of 5f diameter ( made by a band ligature ) , perforations were more common at higher cam speeds . the epicardium remained intact in two thirds of perforations . angioscopy visualized perforations in only 10 % of cases ( 1/10 ) , the common sign being that of large and multiple intimal flaps , which were often obstructive ( 5/10 ) . in pmhcas , angioscopy was more sensitive than angiography in detecting atheromatous lesions . the authors were able to give a better assessment of the effect of dynamic angioplasty on treated lesions , including the demonstration of intimal flaps that were not visible on angiography . in vivo , they have performed percutaneous angioscopy before and after dynamic angioplasty using 8 french kensey catheters . angioscopy revealed features that were not shown angiographically . 
optimizing heparin utilization in angiographic flush solutions . various concentrations of heparin in angiographic flush solutions are employed during angiography . in an effort to determine whether differences in outcome are seen when either high or low concentrations of heparin in angiographic flush solutions are utilized , two groups of patients were evaluated . there was no difference in outcome and a small systemic effect from heparin was seen in both groups . use of a low concentration of heparin is suggested for routine angiography . 
late chronic hemolysis after valve replacement for aortic stenosis . relation to residual hypertrophy and impaired left ventricular function . the relationship between intravascular hemolysis induced by aortic valve prosteses and patient status/left ventricular ( lv ) function ( radionuclide cardiography ) was examined in 63 patients of 65 who were alive ten to seventeen years after valve replacement ( 1965-1973 ) for aortic stenosis . serum-lactic dehydrogenase ( ldh ) exceeded upper reference limit in 62 patients and s-haptoglobin ( hapto ) was reduced in 62 . one patient with normal ldh had reduced hapto and elevated plasma-hemoglobin . anemia was noted in 4 patients ( 6 % ) . s-ldh was higher in men than in women ( p less than 0.05 ) , in patients with increased ecg hypertrophy score than in those with a normal score ( p less than 0.05 ) , in patients with nyha class ii-iii than in those with class i ( p less than 0.05 ) , in patients with abnormal lv function than in those with a normal radionuclide study ( p less than 0.05 ) , in patients with a pathologic q wave in the ecg than in those without ( p less than 0.05 ) , and in patients with a starr edwards cloth-covered ( secc ) prosthesis than in those with other types ( p = 0.07 ) . ecg hypertrophy score correlated directly with ldh ( r = 0.33 , p = 0.008 ) and inversely with lv ejection fraction ( r = -0.57 , p less than 0.0001 ) , peak ejection rate ( r = -0.47 , p less than 0.0001 ) , and peak filling rate ( r = -0.41 , p less than 0.001 ) . multiple linear regression analysis revealed that ldh was accounted for by ecg hypertrophy score ( p = 0.001 ) , secc prosthesis ( p = 0.04 ) , and male gender ( p = 0.05 ) . hypertrophic malfunctioning left ventricles may be responsible for higher degrees of turbulent flow characteristics in the vicinity of prosthetic valves in the aortic position and , by inference , explain the increased tendency toward hemolysis in these patients . 
hindbrain ischemia produced by bilateral vertebral artery occlusion and moderate hypotension in spontaneously hypertensive rats . hindbrain ischemia was induced by bilateral vertebral artery occlusion and moderate hypotension in spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shrs ) . mean arterial blood pressure was lowered to 80 mmhg in shrs and to 50 mmhg in wistar-kyoto rats ( wkys ) by a controlled hemorrhage , and then the vertebral artery was bilaterally occluded through alar foramina of the first cervical vertebra . following vertebral occlusion , blood flow of the cerebellum was significantly decreased to 9.4 + / - 2.0 ml/100g/min ( + / - sem ) while flow of the cerebrum remained at 32.1 + / - 5.4 in shrs . in contrast , cerebellar blood flow in wkys was preserved at 24.2 + / - 2.9 ml/100g/min . brain lactate , pyruvate , and adenosine triphosphate ( atp ) were determined in shrs after sixty minutes of hypotension with or without vertebral occlusion . although infratentorial metabolites were actually unaltered in rats with hypotension alone , infratentorial lactate and lactate/pyruvate ratio significantly increased to 14.38 + / - 3.61 mmol/kg and 67.7 + / - 12.1 , respectively , with a concomitant decrease in atp in shrs with hypotension and vertebral occlusion . bilateral vertebral artery occlusion , together with moderate hypotension , was shown to produce a marked reduction of cerebellar blood flow and to induce ischemic metabolic changes in the infratentorial brain in shrs . 
effect of high-dose furosemide in refractory congestive heart failure . high-dose firosemide is considered effective in primary renal sodium retention but is not generally recommended in congestive heart failure . in order to evaluate efficacy and safety of high-dose furosemide ( greater than 500 mg/day ) , the authors studied 20 patients ( pts ) resistant to therapy ( including furosemide less than 500 mg/day ) selected from 161 pts admitted for chronic heart failure . all refractory pts ( 15 men and 5 women , mean age sixty + / - 12 years ) were in nyha class iv and showed hyponatremia ( 130 + / - 5 meq/l ) and impaired renal function ( bun 31 + / - 14 mg/dl , serum creatinine 1.3 + / - 0.3 mg/dl and bun/creatinine ratio 23 + / - 7 ) . in addition to digitalis , dopamine , angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors , or vasodilators , iv high-dose furosemide ( 775 + / - 419 mg/day , 500-2000 ) was given for ten + / - five days under daily clinical and laboratory monitoring . three pts died of low-output syndrome while 16 pts were upgraded to nyha class iii and 1 pt to class ii ; a mean weight reduction of 7.3 + / - 2.9 kg in ten + five days ( 0.80 + / - 0.4 kg/day ) and a mean diuresis increase of 88 + / - 57 % occurred . the maximal dose of furosemide did not correlate with serum creatinine but did correlate with bun/creatinine ratio ( r = 0.78 , p less than .001 ) . pts were discharged on with chronic heart failure , and 43 % in the subgroup in nyha class iv with hyponatremia . high dose furosemide was effective for rapid removal of excess water and salt in " furosemide-resistant " congestive heart failure . the relationship between renal impairment and maximal furosemide doses seems to confirm the role of renal pharmacokinetics in the appearance of furosemide resistance . 
comparison of standard one-minute treadmill exercise and strandness test ( absolute walking distance ) in relation to site of lesion , walking distance , and diastolic blood flow velocity ( doppler curves ) . in 215 outpatients suffering from occlusive arterial disease of the lower limbs the authors compared the decrease in the ratio of ankle systolic pressure to brachial systolic pressure according to whether the treadmill exercise was limited to one minute or extended until pain forced the patient to stop . after a one-minute walk the pressure index always decreased significantly , especially when walking was restricted . the decrease in the pressure index was generally greater when the exercise was continued until the absolute walking distance , and the recovery time was usually twice as long . the fall in the pressure index was significantly greater for patients with single and multiple iliac stenoses than for those with stenoses at lower levels . in patients having a diastolic blood flow velocity on doppler curves at rest , not modified by walking , a maximum drop in peripheral pressure was recorded after walking for one minute . in this instance there was no intensification of the decrease in peripheral pressure , unlike in patients without a diastolic blood flow velocity at rest . this one-minute test is not a maximal hemodynamic response , but it is sufficient for the appreciation of ischemia during exercise , according to the different parameters measured . 
coronary artery dissection -- a case report . coronary artery dissection , both spontaneous and catheter-induced , is associated with a significant morbidity and mortality . the authors present a case of a middle-aged woman with spontaneous right coronary artery dissection causing inferior wall myocardial infarction and left coronary artery dissection at the time of coronary arteriography . it is suggested that emergency aortocoronary bypass surgery be performed preceded by insertion of an intra-aortic balloon in acute evolving cases where coronary anatomy is favorable to limit infarction and avert loss of life . 
a forme fruste of marfan 's syndrome : case history . a thirty nine year old woman presented with multiple aneurysms and dissections of the arterial system secondary to cystic medial necrosis is presented . after assessment of the family history a diagnosis of a forme fruste of marfan 's syndrome was made . preoperative consideration of this rare diagnosis is important for treatment and surgical management . 
underestimation of treatment effect in crossover trials . in crossover trials each subject serves as his own control . for the study of cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension and angina pectoria , properly designed crossover studies are preferred to parallel studies . there is a considerable between-subject variability of symptoms in some of these conditions . bias due to this is eliminated by the use of a crossover design . however , a problem is the so-called treatment-by-period interaction . the present study analyzes the potential influences of this on the outcome of the trial . physical carryover effect , defined as a physical effect of the first treatment period carrying on into the second , tends to minimize differences between two consecutive treatment periods . so does the frustrating experience of an inactive agent in the first treatment period . outside influences such as the change of the seasons may affect lengthy crossover trials in a similar way . the author concludes that the treatment effect in a crossover trial tends to be underestimated . the current concept that reports of clinical trials are generally biased toward an exaggeration of treatment effects does not seem to apply to crossover trials . 
hemodynamic effects of nebivolol at rest and on exertion in patients with heart failure . nebivolol is a novel b-1-adrenoceptor-blocking drug with an unusual hemodynamic profile unlike classical b-blockers . in dogs and in healthy volunteers it decreases blood pressure and heart rate but improves left ventricular function . the authors studied 10 male patients with coronary artery disease and heart failure ( ejection fraction mean = 46 % ) . a swan-ganz catheter was placed into the pulmonary artery , and the mean blood pressure , the heart rate , the pulmonary artery pressure , the pulmonary wedge pressure , the right atrial pressure , the cardiac output , and the stroke volume were measured at rest and on exertion before and after seven days ' treatment with oral nebivolol ( 5 mg/day ) . while the blood pressure and the heart rate decreased significantly , the pulmonary artery and wedge pressures , as well as the right atrial pressure and the cardiac output , did not change during treatment . the stroke volume increased significantly . the maintained cardiac output can not be explained by any changes in preload or afterload ; instead a positive inotropic mechanism must be assumed . unlike other b-blockers it seems to be possible to treat patients with heart failure with nebivolol without causing the hemodynamic situation to deteriorate . 
effects of diltiazem on the functional recovery of the myocardium at organ and cellular level during prolonged hypothermic ischemic cardiac arrest . the effectiveness of diltiazem on the functional recovery of the heart , calcium ( ca + + ) uptake and binding , ca + + atpase of cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum ( sr ) , and mb fraction of creatine kinase ( mbck ) of coronary sinus blood was investigated after one and a half hours of reperfusion following three hours of ischemic cardiac arrest . the dogs were divided into three groups : group i , sham bypass ; group ii , cold crystalloid cardioplegia ; and group iii , cold crystalloid cardioplegia with diltiazem . there was a decrease in aortic pressures left ventricular pressure development ( dp/dt ) , left ventricular work index ( lvwi ) , total systemic vascular resistance ( tsvr ) , and left ventricular systolic pressure ( lvsp ) in the sham bypass group . there was a decrease in cardiac index ( ci ) , lvwi , and mean right atrial pressure ( mrap ) and an increase in tsvr and pulmonary vascular resistance ( pvr ) in group ii as compared with group i. although there was a tendency for a decrease in the indices of myocardial contractility in group ii , they were not significantly different from those in group i. the indices of myocardial contractility , ci , and lvwi in group iii were slightly higher than in group ii , but they were not significantly different from each other . the values for calcium uptake by sr in groups ii and iii were similar but significantly lower than those in group i. calcium binding in group iii was significantly lower than that in group i. calcium atpase of sr in the three groups were similar . although mbck increased in all the groups , the increases were not significantly different among the three groups . the results of this study indicate that cold crystalloid cardioplegia with diltiazem was not better than cold crystalloid alone in preserving the cardiac contractility and cellular function during prolonged ischemic cardiac arrest . however , the cardiac function in terms of cardiac index was better preserved with diltiazem . 
the effect of local temperature versus sympathetic tone on digital perfusion in raynaud 's phenomenon . matched groups of 7 to 8 patients with primary raynaud 's phenomenon , systemic sclerosis , and undifferentiated connective tissue disease and cold-tolerant normal control subjects were studied by simultaneous digital strain gauge plethysmography and laser doppler capillary velocimetry during two controlled cycles of hand warming and cooling with and without addition of central cooling and during clinical maneuvers to evoke sympathetic tone . transient vasoconstrictor responses of comparable degree could be evoked in all patient groups and in both the arterial and microvascular beds . while the addition of central cooling had little influence on arterial flow , patients with systemic sclerosis manifested a failure to maintain nutritive perfusion at finger temperatures associated with raynaud 's phenomenon . linear regression and multivariate analysis suggested that finger temperature was the principal determinant of arterial flow in systemic sclerosis and that arterial flow was the principal determinant of microvascular perfusion . the inability of patients with systemic sclerosis to maintain nutritive flow in the face of either reflex or cold-induced proximal arterial constriction is consistent with their clinical propensity to ischemic tissue injury and separates these patients physiologically from other forms of raynaud 's phenomenon . 
successful direct ptca on lad after first episode of acute myocardial infarction : does it improve cardiac function ? patients who received direct percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) after acute mycardial infarction and maintained potency but with unimproved cardiac function were studied . in 15 patients , the first episode of acute myocardial infarction was caused by a left anterior descending branch lesion ; 11 had an ejection fraction of 50 % or more in the left ventriculogram in the follow-up period ( improved group ) , and 4 patients had ejection fraction of less than 50 % ( unimproved group ) . there was so significant difference between the groups in the mean time between the onset of infarction and revascularization ( improved group , 259.3 + / - 76.9 min ; unimproved group , 168.0 + / - 101.6 min ) or in the sigma q. which was the sum of the q wave depth of v2 , v3 , and v4 at the time of admission ( improved group , 12.1 + / - 15.6 mm ; unimproved group 29.8 + / - 13.4 mm ) . the maximum creatine kinase concentration was significantly higher in the unimproved group ( improved group 2670 + / - 893 iu/l ; unimproved group , 7243 + / - 1928 iu/l , p less than 0.05 ) , and the time taken from the onset to reach its peak was significantly shorter in the unimproved group ( improved group , 13.0 + / - 5.1 hr ; unimproved group , 6.8 + / - 1.3 hr , p less than 0.05 . ) these results suggest the probability of sudden deterioration of myocardium , and factors other than microcirculatory thromboembolism should be considered as the cause of unimproved cardiac function after successful direct ptca . 
chronic arterial occlusion with pge1-resistant skin lesions treated by glycosaminoglycan compound -- case reports . the authors report on 2 patients with chronic arterial occlusion in whom the intravenous administration of the glycosaminoglycan compound fpfd 101 was markedly effective . one patient suffered from thromboembolic episodes of the left hand , and the other had peripheral circulatory impairment related to collagen disease . in these patients , the oral administration of anticoagulants and antiplatelet agents in combination with intravenous infusion of prostaglandin e1 was not adequately effective . however , the addition of intravenous injection of fpfd 101 resulted in a marked improvement in their symptoms . fpfd 101 , which has an anticoagulant effect and also inhibits platelet aggregation , seems to be useful for the treatment and prevention of chronic arterial occlusion when combined with drugs such as anticoagulants , antiplatelet agents , and vasodilators . 
arterial revascularization by laser angioplasty : first italian experiences . eighty-seven laser angioplasty procedures were performed on 85 patients ( 73 men and 12 women ) . in the first phase ( 54 patients ) a broad selection process included long occlusions ( 23.9 cm avg ) and vessels with heavy calcification ; in the second phase ( 31 patients ) the authors treated vessels with shorter occlusions ( 10 cm avg ) and less calcific . the primary success rate , based on number of procedures ( 73.5 % overall ) was 69 % in the first phase but reached 81.3 % in the second phase . there were 14 perforations ( 16 % ) , 8 dissections ( 9.4 % ) , and 4 peripheral emboli ( 4.7 % ) . six-month follow-up shows that the winsor index maintained its initial improvement in 76.5 % of all patients , or 62 % in just the long occlusions . these data and a review of the cases suggest that no more of 10-20 % of patients with claudication in lower extremities can be treated by laser angioplasty ; the authors consider ideal candidates those patients who noncalcific lesions in the common iliac or superficial femoral arteries at the iii medium level with obstructions shorter than 8 cm and good runoff . 
intraoperative coronary excimer laser angioplasty : preliminary clinical experience . diffuse coronary artery atherosclerosis is generally recognized as a deterrent to successful revascularization if it can not be adequately treated . mechanical endarterectomy can be useful , but it is not the optimal solution owing to the associated higher incidences of perioperative infarction and mortality . the use of laser energy as an endarterectomy tool appears promising . to investigate the application of excimer laser radiation to intraoperative coronary artery endarterectomy , 15 stenotic lesions in 13 patients were treated with excimer irradiation during coronary artery bypass grafting . eleven ( 73 % ) of the lesions were enlarged by the excimer probe ( 6 of the successes were in calcified lesions ) . the 4 arteries not enlarged by the excimer laser all demonstrated calcified lesions . there were 3 perforations and 2 dissections , all but 1 in heavily calcified arteries . the results of this phase 1 safety and efficacy study indicate that excimer irradiation can recanalize most arteries , including total and subtotal occlusions and some calcified lesions . further evaluation with better delivery systems is needed to determine whether the perforation rate can be reduced . 
intravascular ultrasound : a new potential modality for angioplasty guidance . current angioplasty devices are limited by significant rates of arterial perforation and dissection , due to inadequate techniques of guidance , and by restenosis , which may be partly attributed to inadequate debulking of lesions . this paper describes the authors ' initial experience in-vitro and in-vivo with intravascular ultrasound as a possible method of enhancing the three-dimensional guidance of devices through atherosclerotic obstructions . using an in-vitro model they correlated the dimensions and histologic morphology of animal and human arteries with ultrasound images of the specimens . additional in-vivo evaluations of this technology in canine arteriosclerotic and human atherosclerotic arteries preliminarily support the hypothesis that intravascular ultrasound defines the transmural arterial morphology and may enhance the accuracy of angioplasty procedures . simultaneous imaging with angioscopy and intravascular ultrasound is demonstrated as a potential method of accurately defining both intraluminal and transmural arterial wall characteristics . 
intravascular laser therapy of acute myocardial infarction . the efficacy of a new method of treatment , endovascular blood irradiation with he-ne laser , developed by the authors , was studied in 295 patients with primary acute transmural myocardial infarction ( mi ) . twenty-four-hour holter monitoring findings before and after laser irradiation suggested the possibility of preventing sudden death in the acute period of mi owing to the high anti-arrhythmic efficacy of the method with respect to high-grade ventricular arrhythmias . precodial ecg mapping and serial determination of blood enzyme activities ( cpk and mb-cpk ) showed that irradiation performed within the first hours of mi development contributed to effective limitation of the infarction area and restricted the spread of the area of myocardial ischemic damage . 
an evaluation of cocaine-induced chest pain study objective : to determine if enzymatic evidence of acute myocardial injury is present in patients complaining of chest pain after cocaine use when the ecg is normal or nondiagnostic . design : serial ecg and creatinine kinase ( ck ) and ck isoenzymes ( ck-iso ) determinations were performed at time of emergency department presentation and every six hours over 12 hours on individuals complaining of chest pain within six hours of last cocaine use . setting : ed of an urban tertiary care center . type of participants : forty-two individuals with a mean age of 28.5 years . interventions : patients with positive ck-isos were admitted immediately to formally rule out myocardial infarction . patients developing ecg changes during observation period also were admitted even if ck-isos were normal . patients with unchanged ecgs and normal ck-isos were discharged after 12 hours of observation . results : eight patients ( 19 % ) had elevated ck and ck-iso values at presentation . two of these patients had elevated values on three sequential determinations and were believed to have sustained acute myocardial infarction . six patients had elevated ck and ck-isos at presentation only . ecgs remained normal or nondiagnostic in all patients . conclusions : enzymatic evidence of acute myocardial injury may occur in patients who develop chest pain after cocaine use and have normal or nondiagnostic ecgs . this injury may reflect acute infarction or transient ischemia . single or serial normal or nondiagnostic ecgs do not rule out ischemia or injury in this group of patients . 
improved survival and reduced myocardial necrosis with cardiopulmonary bypass reperfusion in a canine model of coronary occlusion and cardiac arrest . study question : does cardiopulmonary bypass ( cpb ) improve resuscitation rates and limit infarct size after cardiac arrest and acute myocardial infarction ? design : controlled randomized trial with all animals undergoing left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion and subsequent ventricular fibrillation and resuscitation . all animals were supported for four hours after resuscitation in an intensive care setting . intervention : group 1 ( eight ) was resuscitated with standard external cpr and advanced life support . group 2 ( eight ) was resuscitated with cpb . measurements and main results : group hemodynamic , resuscitation variables , number resuscitated , and number of four-hour survivors were compared . ischemic and necrotic myocardial weights were determined with histochemical staining techniques in four-hour survivors . infarct size was measured as the ratio of necrotic weight to ischemic weight . significantly fewer dogs were resuscitated in group 1 ( four of eight ) than in group 2 ( eight of eight ) ( p less than .05 ) . group 2 survivors required significantly less epinephrine and lidocaine than group 1 survivors ( p less than .05 ) and higher aortic diastolic and coronary perfusion pressures after cpb ( p less than .001 ) . the ratio of myocardial necrotic weight to ischemic weight at four hours was 0.82 + / - 0.25 in group 1 and 0.22 + / - 0.25 in group 2 ( p less than .05 ) . however , collateral blood flow was not measured in this study . conclusion : this pilot study further substantiates the improvement in resuscitation rates obtainable with cpb . cpb may also limit infarct size during the postresuscitation period and requires further study . 
transcranial doppler determination of cerebral perfusion in patients undergoing cpr : methodology and preliminary findings . study objectives : to correlate cerebral arterial blood velocity measurements as determined by transcranial doppler ultrasound with various resuscitation maneuvers performed in an uncontrolled manner in a series of cardiac arrest patients undergoing standard resuscitation . type of participants : any patient undergoing resuscitation for a nontraumatic cardiac arrest was eligible for the study . interventions : resuscitation was carried out while flow velocities were monitored in various intracranial arteries by transcranial doppler ultrasound . vessel identification was based on the angle and depth of insonation . measurements and main results : the internal carotid artery was located more consistently than either middle cerebral or ophthalmic arteries and provided superior waveforms for analysis . alterations in flow velocity were noted and correlated to various therapeutic interventions . flow velocities were 70 % of normal during the early phase of resuscitation but deteriorated over time until there was no evidence of net forward flow . even early in cpr , flow was demonstrated only during systole . conclusion : transcranial doppler ultrasound appears to be a potentially promising means of determining cerebral flow in patients undergoing cpr . 
doppler assessment of pulmonary hypertension induced by hypoxic breathing in subjects susceptible to high altitude pulmonary edema . to verify the abnormal pulmonary vascular response implicated in the pathogenesis of high altitude pulmonary edema ( hape ) , we examined the hemodynamic responses to hypoxia in hape-susceptible subjects ( hape-s ) by means of both right heart catheterization and pulsed doppler echocardiography . the hape-s were seven men and one woman with a history of hape . six healthy volunteers who had repeated experiences of mountain climbing without any history of altitude-related problems served as control subjects . the hape-s showed much greater increase in pulmonary vascular resistance ( pvr ) than did the control subjects , resulting in a much higher level of pulmonary arterial pressure ( ppa ) under acute hypoxia both of 15 % o2 and 10 % o2 . we then evaluated the usefulness of pulsed doppler echocardiography in the prediction of pulmonary hypertension . acceleration time ( act ) and right ventricular ejection time ( rvet ) were measured from the flow velocity pattern in the right ventricular outflow tract . the ratio of act to rvet was correlated to invasively determined mean ppa ( ppa ) and pvr . the results were as follows : ( 1 ) act/rvet = 0.52 to 0.0047 ( ppa ) , r = -0.93 , see = 0.017 , p less than 0.001 ( hape-s ) ; ( 2 ) act/rvet = 0.55 to 0.0055 ( ppa ) , r = -0.70 , see = 0.030 , p less than 0.001 ( hape-s ) ; ( 4 ) act/rvet = 0.52 to 0.00077 ( pvr ) , r = -0.91 , see = 0.016 , p less than 0.001 ( control subjects ) . we conclude that hape-s have a constitutional abnormality in the pulmonary vascular response to hypoxia , which is a possible causative factor of hape , and that pulsed doppler echocardiography may be supportive to assess the pulmonary vascular pressor response in the hape-s . 
timing of corticosteroid treatment . effect of lung lymph dynamics in air injury in awake sheep . in paired experiments , we studied the effects of high-dose methylprednisolone on the acute pulmonary injury caused by 4 h of venous air embolization in 19 chronically instrumented , unanesthetized sheep with lung lymph fistulas . we compared the effect of methylprednisolone ( 30 mg/kg intravenous bolus ) given before embolization , early ( 1 h ) in the course of embolization , late ( 3 h ) in the course of embolization , or after embolization ( at the beginning of the recovery period ) . we measured pulmonary hemodynamics and lymph dynamics . in six sheep we also fixed lung tissue for semiquantitative histology , and in some we measured leukocyte concentrations in blood and in pulmonary lymph . methylprednisolone did not significantly affect pulmonary hemodynamics but it largely prevented lung injury when it was given before embolization . it also lessened the degree of lung injury when it was given during embolization , although this effect became less marked as treatment was delayed . methylprednisolone had no effect on lung injury when given after embolization was completed ( 4 h ) . we found fewer leukocytes attached to air emboli and fewer endothelial cell gaps in the lungs of sheep given methylprednisolone as prophylaxis . leukocyte counts were lower in lung lymph and higher in the circulating blood of methylprednisolone-treated sheep . we conclude that methylprednisolone has a preventive effect on air embolism lung injury , such that its effect is greater when given earlier during the development of injury . 
clinical course of anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody-associated glomerulonephritis and systemic vasculitis . the glomerular disease collaborative network objectives : to determine the spectrum of clinical manifestations in patients with anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody ( anca ) - associated glomerulonephritis ; to determine renal and patient survival in these patients ; to compare survival among patients treated with corticosteroids alone , corticosteroids plus intravenous cyclophosphamide or corticosteroids plus oral cyclophosphamide ; and to assess the correlation of disease manifestations and treatment response with anca subtypes and serial autoantibody titers . design : inception cohort study ; mean follow-up of 24 months . setting : collaborative network of 120 university and private practice nephrologists ( the glomerular disease collaborative network ) . participants : seventy patients with anca and pauci-immune necrotizing and crescentic glomerulonephritis , of whom 59 were treated with either corticosteroids alone ( 14 patients ) , corticosteroids plus oral cyclophosphamide ( 30 patients ) , or corticosteroids plus intravenous cyclophosphamide ( 15 patients ) . main results : of the 70 patients , 18 had renal-limited disease ( idiopathic crescentic glomerulonephritis ) ; 15 , nonpulmonary extrarenal disease consistent with polyarteritis nodosa ; and 37 , pulmonary disease consistent with wegener granulomatosis or alveolar capillaritis . there were overlapping manifestations of disease between patients with autoantibodies producing a cytoplasmic pattern and patients with autoantibodies producing a perinuclear pattern ; however , the perinuclear pattern occurred more frequently in patients with renal-limited disease . renal and patient survival was 75 % at 24 months , and no difference in survival was seen between patients with renal-limited disease and those with systemic disease . no differences in survival were seen between patients treated with oral cyclophosphamide and those treated with intravenous cyclophosphamide ; however , the comparative data from patients treated with corticosteroids alone were inconclusive . in general , autoantibody titers correlated with response to treatment and disease activity , but there were exceptions . conclusions : patients with anca have various forms of necrotizing vascular inflammation , ranging from renal-limited disease to widespread systemic vasculitis , including polyarteritis nodosa and wegener granulomatosis . oral corticosteroids with either oral or intravenous cyclophosphamide appear to be equally effective therapy for anca-associated glomerulonephritis . 
exercise thallium-201 scintigraphy in the diagnosis and prognosis of coronary artery disease . objective : to determine the discriminant accuracy of exercise thallium-201 myocardial perfusion scintigraphy for the diagnosis and prognosis of patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease . data identification : a survey of the national library of medicine medline database . study selection : the key medical subject headings used were coronary disease , myocardial infarction , radionuclide imaging , and thallium . a total of 122 retrieved studies were considered relevant and were reviewed in depth . data extraction : only studies reporting both the sensitivity and specificity of thallium scintigraphy were analyzed . results : discriminant accuracy for diagnosis and prognosis was summarized in terms of pooled sensitivity and specificity . conclusions : exercise thallium scintigraphy is useful in the noninvasive diagnosis of coronary artery disease , especially in patients with abnormal resting electrocardiograms , restricted exercise tolerance , and intermediate probability of having disease at the time of testing as well as of defining the prognosis of patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease , especially in those with previous myocardial infarction . because of various shortcomings in the published record , however , the marginal discriminant accuracy and cost effectiveness of thallium scintigraphy compared with conventional clinical assessment and exercise electrocardiography remain controversial . 
a case of unilateral posterior ischemic optic neuropathy after radical neck dissection . we present a case of unilateral posterior ischemic optic neuropathy after bilateral radical neck dissection . etiologic factors are discussed . 
branch retinal vein occlusion : the pathogenetic role of blood viscosity . the pathogenesis of branch retinal vein occlusion has not been completely clarified . the role of abnormal blood viscosity in the appearance and evolution of the disease has recently been advocated . we studied 54 patients with long-standing branch retinal vein occlusion from a hemorrheologic point of view . depending on the extension of retinal ischemia , two subgroups were identified . hematocrit , blood and plasma viscosity , whole blood filterability , cell deformability , and fibrinogen levels were investigated . thirty-five subjects of similar age , sex , and risk factors of diabetes and hypertension served as controls . our results showed that blood viscosity is higher in patients with occlusion and particularly in those with severe retinal ischemia . statistical analysis showed a direct correlation between blood viscosity and hematocrit . 
plasma prolactin and clinical outcome in preterm infants . plasma prolactin was measured weekly in 280 preterm infants . the complex gestational age dependent pattern of postnatal prolactin release has been defined and reference standards provided . plasma prolactin was higher in girls , with increasing divergence between the sexes from the third week onwards , and higher after two weeks , in infants of mothers with pregnancy related hypertension . diet , assigned randomly , exerted a major effect on plasma prolactin , with significantly higher values in infants fed donor breast milk or standard formula than in those fed a protein , energy , and mineral enriched preterm formula . after adjusting for confounding factors , infants with the lowest plasma prolactin concentrations ( less than 1000 mu/l , 32.9 micrograms/l ) occurring usually at a nadir between days 5 and 12 , showed a 120 % increase in the duration of ventilatory assistance required , a 20 % increase in the number of days to attain full enteral feeds , and a 30 % decrease in length gain . we suggest preterm birth disrupts the normal perinatal pattern of prolactin release and that those infants who develop relatively low plasma concentration have an adverse outcome . our data add to the broader debate on whether preterm infants require multiple endocrine replacement treatment . 
the iris in williams syndrome . forty three children with williams syndrome and 124 control subjects had their eyes photographed . the photographs were examined by three ophthalmologists and four geneticists of varying experience . a stellate pattern was noted more often in the irides of patients with williams syndrome ( 51 % ) than in those of the control subjects ( 12 % ) , and was more difficult to detect , or was absent , in heavily pigmented irides . we conclude that the stellate pattern is of diagnostic importance , particularly if the pattern is carefully defined and the clinician is experienced . 
congenital diaphragmatic hernia : impact of prostanoids in the perioperative period . a prospective study of 10 neonates with congenital diaphragmatic hernia and five controls to determine the importance of prostanoid concentrations perioperatively and the relation with persistent pulmonary hypertension ( pph ) is reported . in neonates with congenital diaphragmatic hernia postoperative concentrations of the vasoconstrictor thromboxane b2 rose significantly and were higher during episodes of pph ; this rise may provoke pph and subsequent right to left shunting . 
changing arteriosclerotic disease patterns and management strategies in lower-limb-threatening ischemia . from january 1 , 1974 to december 31 , 1989 , we treated 2829 patients with critical lower-extremity ischemia . in the last 5 years , 13 % of patients had therapeutically significant stenoses or occlusions above and below the groin , while 35 % had them at two or three levels below the inguinal ligament . unobstructed arterial flow to the distal half of the thigh was present in 26 % of patients , and 16 % had unobstructed flow to the upper third of the leg with occlusions of all three leg arteries distal to this point and reconstitution of some patent named artery in the lower leg or foot . in the last 2 years , 99 % of all patients with a threatened limb and without severe organic mental syndrome or midfoot gangrene were amenable to revascularization by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty ( pta ) , arterial bypass , or a combination of the two , although some distal arteries used for bypass insertion were heavily diseased or isolated segments without an intact plantar arch . limb salvage was achieved and maintained in more than 90 % of recent patient cohorts , with a mean procedural mortality rate of 3.3 % . recent strategies that contributed to these results include ( 1 ) distal origin short vein grafts from the below-knee popliteal or tibial arteries to an ankle or foot artery ( 291 cases ) ; ( 2 ) combined pta and bypass ( 245 cases ) ; ( 3 ) more distal pta of popliteal and tibial artery stenoses ( 233 cases ) ; ( 4 ) use of in situ or ectopic reversed autogenous vein for infrapopliteal bypasses , even when vein diameter was 3 to 4 mm ; ( 5 ) composite-sequential femoropopliteal-distal ( ptfe/vein ) bypasses ; ( 6 ) reintervention when a procedure thrombosed ( 637 cases ) or was threatened by a hemodynamically significant inflow , outflow , or graft lesion ( failing graft , 252 cases ) ; ( 7 ) frequent follow-up to detect threatening lesions before graft thrombosis occurred and to permit correction of lesions by pta ( 58 % ) or simple reoperation ; and ( 8 ) unusual approaches to all infrainguinal arteries to facilitate secondary operations , despite scarring and infection . primary major amputation rates decreased from 41 % to 5 % and total amputation rates decreased from 49 % to 14 % . aggressive policies to save threatened limbs thus are supported . 
selective evaluation and management of coronary artery disease in patients undergoing repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms . a 16-year experience . reduction of cardiac mortality associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm ( aaa ) repair remains an important goal . five hundred consecutive urgent or elective operations for infrarenal nonruptured aaa were reviewed . patients were divided into three groups based on preoperative cardiac status : group i ( n = 260 , 52 % ) , no clinical or electrocardiographic ( ecg ) evidence of coronary artery disease ( cad ) ; group ii ( n = 212 , 42.2 % ) , clinical or ecg evidence of cad considered stable after further evaluation with studies such as dipyridamole-thallium scanning , echocardiography , or coronary arteriography ; group iii ( n = 28 , 5.6 % ) , clinical or ecg evidence of cad considered unstable after further evaluation . group i had no further cardiac evaluation and groups i and ii underwent aaa repair without invasive treatment of cad . group iii underwent repair of cardiac disease before ( n = 21 ) or coincident with ( n = 7 ) aaa repair . in all instances , perioperative fluid volume management was based on left ventricular performance curves constructed before operation . the 30-day operative mortality rate for aaa repair in all 500 patients was 1.6 % ( n = 8 ) . there was one ( 0.4 % ) cardiac-related operative death in group i , which was significantly less than the five ( 2.4 % ) in group ii ( p less than 0.02 ) . total mortality for the two groups were also significantly different , with one group i death ( 0.4 % ) and seven group ii deaths ( 3.3 % ) , ( p less than 0.02 ) . these data support the conclusions that ( 1 ) the leading cause of perioperative mortality in aaa repair is myocardial infarction , ( 2 ) correction of severe or unstable cad before or coincident with aaa repair is effective in preventing operative mortality , ( 3 ) patients with known cad should be investigated more thoroughly to identify those likely to develop perioperative myocardial ischemia so that their cad can be corrected before aaa repair , and ( 4 ) patients with no clinical or ecg evidence of cad rarely die of perioperative myocardial infarction , and thus selective evaluation of cad based on clinical grounds in aaa patients is justified . 
experience with cardiopulmonary bypass and deep hypothermic circulatory arrest in the management of retroperitoneal tumors with large vena caval thrombi . from june 1984 to september 1989 , 43 patients with large vena caval tumor thrombi from retroperitoneal malignancies underwent surgical treatment with cardiopulmonary bypass ( cpb ) and deep hypothermic circulatory arrest ( dhca ) . the primary malignancies were renal cell carcinoma ( rcc ) ( n = 39 ) , renal pelvic transitional cell carcinoma ( n = 1 ) , adrenal pheochromocytoma ( n = 1 ) , and renal ( n = 1 ) or retroperitoneal ( n = 1 ) sarcoma . the level of the caval thrombus was either suprahepatic ( n = 27 ) , intrahepatic ( n = 14 ) , or subhepatic ( n = 2 ) . in all cases the primary tumor and caval thrombus were completely removed . concomitant procedures included coronary artery bypass grafting ( n = 5 ) , pulmonary resection ( n = 2 ) , and hepatic lobectomy ( n = 1 ) . the time of circulatory arrest ranged from 10 to 44 minutes ( mean , 23.5 minutes ) . there were two operative deaths ( 4.7 % ) , neither of them due to to the use of dhca . major postoperative complications occurred in 13 patients ( 30.2 % ) . there were no ischemic or neurologic complications and no cases of perioperative tumor embolization . the median postoperative hospital stay was 9 days . twenty-two patients ( 51 % ) are alive and enjoying a good quality of life . the 3-year patient survival rates in patients with localized ( n = 24 ) versus metastatic ( n = 15 ) rcc are 63.9 % and 10.9 % , respectively ( p = 0.02 ) . we conclude that cpb with dhca facilities excision of retroperitoneal malignancies with large caval thrombi and provides the potential for cure with low morbidity and mortality rates . 
relief of tracheal compression by aortopexy . we have performed aortopexy in 12 children with tracheal compression . six infants had compression secondary to a vascular anomaly ( group 1 ) , and the other 6 had previous repair of esophageal atresia ( group 2 ) . eleven of the 12 children are alive after a mean follow-up of 36 months . in group 1 , 1 patient died and 3 patients ( 50 % ) experienced recurrent respiratory distress . five infants sustained a major postoperative complication , and the average postoperative hospital stay was 25 days . in group 2 , however , aortopexy was uniformly successful . there were no deaths , no postoperative complications , and no cases of postoperative respiratory distress , and the mean postoperative hospital stay was only 10 days . for children with reflex apnea after repair of esophageal atresia , aortopexy is lifesaving and can be performed with minimal morbidity and mortality . great caution is indicated in children with tracheal compression from other causes . 
intraoperative ultrasonic imaging of the ascending aorta in ischemic heart disease . in an attempt to locate any atherosclerotic lesion in the ascending aorta and to prevent embolization , intraoperative b-mode ultrasonography was performed in 100 patients with ischemic heart disease ( 31 women and 69 men ) . ultrasonography was carried out with a 10-mhz probe placed directly on the ascending aorta . ultrasonic imaging demonstrated an atherosclerotic lesion in the lower half of the aorta in 76 patients ( 76 % ) , a lesion in the upper half of the aorta in 89 patients ( 89 % ) , and a lesion at the orifice of the innominate artery in 99 patients ( 99 % ) . prospective palpation identified an atherosclerotic lesion in 12 ( 25 % ) of 48 patients . thoracic computed tomography in 79 patients showed calcification in the lower half of the aorta in 6 patients ( 7.6 % ) and in the upper half of the aorta in 11 ( 13.9 % ) . palpation and thoracic computed tomography underestimated the frequency of atherosclerotic lesions . intraoperative ultrasonography accurately identified atherosclerotic disease . this technique allows the surgeon to modify cannulation , aortic clamping , and operative technique to reduce the risk of perioperative stroke due to embolization of atherosclerotic debris from the ascending aorta . 
prevention of paraplegia during aortic operations . ischemic spinal cord injury after aortic cross-clamping may be produced by a steal phenomenon . the present study investigates this possibility by directly measuring the oxygen tension on the spinal cord surface in pigs . after simple clamping of the aorta , oxygen tension decreased significantly distal to the clamping site both after occlusion of the thoracic aorta at t3-4 ( group 1 ) and after occlusion of the abdominal aorta at l-1 ( group 2 ) . exclusion of the thoracic aorta by a second clamp at t-13 restored oxygen tension almost to the original level , whereas segmentation of the abdominal aorta up to s-1 hardly affected oxygen tension in the area of the artery of adamkiewicz in most of the animals . we conclude that after aortic cross-clamping , blood tends to drain away from the spinal cord rather than supplying it longitudinally . without knowledge of the position of the adamkiewicz artery in humans as well as of the competence of the collateral circulation in the excluded segment , it is necessary to develop a new strategy for repair of the aorta . we describe and discuss two surgical techniques for the prevention of paraplegia after aortic cross-clamping : the counterocclusion technique and the bypass fractionated technique . 
combined internal mammary artery graft for coronary artery revascularization . five patients with multiple-vessel coronary artery disease underwent isolated coronary artery bypass grafting with a technique involving both internal mammary arteries and a small piece of interposed saphenous vein . the combined internal mammary artery grafts were used for sequential grafting . a total of 20 anastomoses were performed ( average number , 4 anastomoses per patient ) . there were no operative deaths . postoperative complications included reoperation for bleeding in 1 patient and diaphragmatic dysfunction in another . postoperative coronary angiography 2 days before discharge ( mean time , 10 days postoperatively ) revealed that all the sequential anastomoses with the combined ima graft were patent . exercise tolerance tests performed 3 and 11 months postoperatively indicated excellent results and no ischemia . based on this experience , we conclude that this method appears promising for multivessel coronary artery bypass grafting . 
cor triatriatum : clinical presentation and surgical results in 12 patients . twelve patients with cor triatriatum have been seen at our institution since 1979 . the clinical presentation , diagnostic evaluation , and surgical results are outlined in this retrospective review . operation is the treatment of choice for this rare congenital cardiac defect . one patient died 1 day before scheduled operation , and 2 patients died postoperatively , yielding a surgical mortality rate of 17 % and an overall mortality rate of 25 % . resection of the obstructing atrial membrane was performed using hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass in all cases . left atriotomy was performed in 6 patients , and right atriotomy was performed in 7 . the two postoperative deaths occurred in patients who had serious associated cardiac defects . associated anomalies include atrial septal defect , persistent left superior vena cava , and partial anomalous pulmonary venous return . the postoperative course has been excellent in all 9 surviving patients ; all remain asymptomatic . cor triatriatum is amenable to surgical repair with excellent results when diagnosed early and when not complicated by other severe cardiac anomalies . 
long-term amiodarone administration protects against global myocardial ischemia . reports on the effects of amiodarone on cardiac function have been variable . this study addresses the effect of long-term amiodarone administration on recovery of cardiac function after a period of global ischemia . normotensive and spontaneously hypertensive rats were used . normotensive rats ( n = 6 ) received 240 mg/kg amiodarone for 4 weeks , for a total of 72 + / - 3 mg . hypertensive rats ( n = 6 ) received 500 mg/kg amiodarone for 4 weeks , for a total of 116 + / - 5 mg . final myocardial concentrations of amiodarone and desethylamiodarone were 1.85 + / - 1.75 and 0.50 + / - 0.61 micrograms/g wet weight for the normotensive rats and 1.30 + / - 0.58 and 0.31 + / - 0.17 micrograms/g for the hypertensive rats ( p = nonsignificant ) . equal numbers of controls received sterile saline solution for 4 weeks . the hearts were excised and perfused in a langendorff apparatus . the results indicate that , after 15 minutes of normothermic ischemia , hearts treated with this relatively low dose of amiodarone recovered a greater percentage of preischemic work ( 97 % + / - 13 % ) as compared with the controls ( 76 % + / - 17 % ) ( p less than 0.005 ) . 
subaortic obstruction : intraoperative echocardiography as an adjunct to operation . fourteen patients undergoing operation for subaortic obstruction ( membranous obstruction in 11 patients , tunnel obstruction in 2 patients , obstruction due to reduplicated mitral valve tissue in 1 patient ) were evaluated by intraoperative epicardial echocardiography . in all 9 patients with " discrete " obstruction who underwent prebypass epicardial echocardiography , the septal and lateral attachments of the lesion were correctly demonstrated . the precise extent of tunnel stenosis was seen in both patients . the lateral attachment of the membrane in 4 patients and multiple extensions in another 2 were identified by the epicardial study ( having been missed on precordial echocardiography ) . the discrete membrane was enucleated in 10 of the 11 patients and was partially resected in 1 . one tunnel obstruction was completely relieved ; the other was partially relieved . reduplicated mitral valve tissue in the remaining patient was completely resected . epicardial imaging after bypass showed remnants of the membrane in 2 patients . intraoperative doppler echocardiography and color flow imaging confirmed the absence of clinically significant residual gradients ( less than 20 mm hg ) in all but 1 patient with tunnel obstruction . epicardial imaging provided excellent morphological information about obstructive lesions of the left ventricular outflow tract and enabled immediate assessment of surgical repair . 
use of the variable-length intraluminal sutureless graft . from august 1987 to may 1988 we treated 4 patients with acute ascending aortic dissections with a variable-length intraluminal aortic prosthesis . this operation uses profound hypothermic circulatory arrest and represents a refinement of existing techniques . there was no mortality , and morbidity was minimal . modifications of this technique can be used in performing proximal aortic root reconstruction with a composite valved conduit . the use of a variable-length intraluminal prosthesis and hypothermic circulatory arrest is illustrated . this is a safe and useful technique in select cases of acute ascending aortic dissection . 
swan-ganz catheter-induced massive hemoptysis and pulmonary artery false aneurysm . swan-ganz catheter-induced massive hemoptysis and later pulmonary artery false aneurysm occurred in a patient with prosthetic mitral regurgitation . this patient was successfully managed by double-lumen endotracheal intubation , control of pulmonary hypertension , reversal of anticoagulation , mitral valve re-replacement , and transcatheter embolization . the pertinent literature is reviewed . 
cystic medionecrosis of the coronary arteries and fatal coronary vasospasm . the histopathological basis of coronary vasospasm is not well defined . we report a patient with directly observed coronary artery spasm in whom cystic medionecrosis of the coronary arteries and great vessels and myxomatous degeneration of the mitral valve were evident . we suggest that myxoid connective tissue lesions of the heart may be linked to coronary vasospasm . 
liver transplantation with atrioatrial anastomosis for budd-chiari syndrome . we report the case of a young woman with budd-chiari syndrome in whom mesentericoval shunt was first performed , followed by transcaval liver resection and hepatoatrial anatomosis 3 years later . liver transplantation became necessary 5 years later because of deterioarating liver function with portal hypertension and bleeding . successful transplantation was performed with atrioatrial anastomosis with help of cardiopulmonary bypass , simplifying considerably the technical procedure and reducing dramatically blood loss . 
polytetrafluoroethylene graft for spontaneous coronary dissection : 7-year follow-up . spontaneous coronary artery dissection remains an exceedingly rare cause of myocardial ischemia . the patients are usually young and female , and the dissection is frequently fatal . the use of polytetrafluoroethylene as an aortocoronary conduit is generally followed by early occlusion . we report a case of spontaneous right coronary dissection in which a polytetrafluoroethylene graft was placed that was observed to remain patent by angiography at least 72 months after operation . 
improved cannulation method for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation . extracorporeal membrane oxygenation has been shown to be useful for patients in reversible cardiogenic shock . effective arterial cannulation techniques for infants have been developed that are simple to use and require minimal subsequent vascular repair or reconstruction after removal . groin cannulation in adults frequently requires bidirectional arterial cannulation to ensure adequate distal perfusion as well as frequent complex arterial repairs after discontinuation . we describe a simple arterial cannulation technique using a single right-angle , high-flow arterial cannula . with this technique adequate bidirectional arterial perfusion is maintained with a single arterial cannula while the need for vascular repairs or reconstruction is minimized . 
the association of blood pressure levels and change in renal function in hypertensive and nonhypertensive subjects . we compared the changes in serum creatinine levels over time after a mean follow-up of 9.8 years in essential hypertensive ( eh , n = 56 ) and control ( n = 59 ) male veteran subjects . all subjects had normal serum creatinine levels ( 62 to 124 mumol/l ) and " normal " urinalysis results on entry into the study . subjects with comorbid renal diagnoses and diabetes mellitus were eliminated from the analysis . although not statistically significant , the rate of change in the serum creatinine concentration over time was greater in the eh cohort compared with the control cohort ( 1.08 + / - 4.8 vs 0.027 + / - 3.5 mumol/l per year ) . the difference was especially marked in black eh subjects vs black control subjects ( 1.60 + / - 6.2 mumol/l per year vs -0.21 + / - 3.3 mumol/l per year ) . when age , race , body mass index , and a diagnosis of eh were entered into a logistic regression analysis , eh subjects had a statistically significantly greater rate of decline in renal function than did control subjects ( 1.5 + / - 8.3 mumol/l per year ) . when mean time-averaged systolic blood pressure for each subject was also included in the logistic regression analysis , only systolic time-averaged blood pressure was statistically significant ( 0.063 + / - 0.029 mumol/l per year ) . we conclude that in the absence of clinically detected parenchymal renal disease , eh subjects have a greater rate of decline in renal function than do nonhypertensive subjects . time-averaged blood pressure is predictive of the change in serum creatinine concentration not only in eh subjects but also in nonhypertensive subjects . thus , preservation of renal function may require a blood pressure lower than the currently accepted normotensive range . 
morbidity , mortality , and quality of life for patients treated with levothyroxine in a population study of 1462 middle-aged women initiated in 1968 and 1969 we identified 29 women treated with levothyroxine from 1 to 28 years . in a 12-year follow-up in 1980 and 1981 we investigated the subjects for end-point myocardial infarction , diabetes mellitus , stroke , cancer , and death ( the status of 99.7 % of the initial participants was established ) . the women treated with levothyroxine showed no increase in morbidity or mortality . of the 24 women still receiving levothyroxine in 1980 and 1981 , 22 had serum thyrotropin and triiodothyronine concentrations with-in reference limits . these individuals were compared with the 968 women from the population study having no history of thyroid disease , and appeared identical as to laboratory and clinical data , with the exception of a slightly higher body mass , taller stature , and lower serum cholesterol concentration . the treated group did not differ in a life quality estimate based on 19 questions regarding life satisfaction and sensory function . we conclude that the levothyroxine-treated woman suffers no side effects from her life-long therapy . 
financial impact of a rapid ck-mb-specific immunoassay on the diagnosis of myocardial infarction . the purpose of this study was twofold . first , we evaluated the financial impact of a rapid , monoclonal antibody-based ck-mb mass assay ( stratus , dade division , baxter laboratories , miami , fla ) for the direct measurement of ck-mb in serum samples from 65 patients admitted to the coronary care unit with the possible diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction . second , we evaluated retrospectively the stratus assay and an activity assay ( electrophoresis ) for ck-mb in the following patient categories : acute myocardial infarction treated with and without thrombolytic therapy , angina , congestive heart failure , skeletal muscle trauma , and the acutely ill without acute myocardial infarction . the advantageous features of the stratus mass assay were as follows . first , the laboratory was able to perform the assay more frequently because of the short assay time per specimen ( less than 10 minutes ) without additional personnel . this had a substantial impact on the clinician 's ability to diagnose acute myocardial infarction and to move patients out of an intensive care unit at substantial financial savings to the patient , the hospital , or the third-party payer . second , the stratus assay was able to detect low levels of ck-mb ( 1 to 2 micrograms/l ) in the presence of low total creatine kinase activity ( less than 100 u/l ) . third , the stratus assay showed no interference due to very-high-total creatine kinase activities ( greater than 100,000 u/l ) , ck-bb , macro-creatine kinase , and mitochondrial creatine kinase . 
long-term function of persons with atherosclerotic bilateral below-knee amputation living in the inner city . long-term function of 24 elderly persons with atherosclerotic bilateral below-knee amputation living in an inner city for at least six months after the second amputation , was determined . twenty-one ( 87.6 % ) subjects were living at home ; three were living in nursing homes . fourteen ( 70 % ) of 20 subjects who received bilateral prostheses were ambulators . at interview , the mean age was 75.2 years ; 4.87 years was the mean time since the second amputation . ten ( 50 % ) subjects remained ambulatory . among the other ten who received prosthesis , loss of ambulation occurred mostly due to medical factors , at an average of 3.47 years after the second amputation . those no longer ambulatory were older and " sicker , " and the interval between amputations was shorter . fifteen ( 62.5 % ) subjects were independent in dressing , 14 ( 58.4 % ) in toileting , and only nine ( 33.3 % ) in bathing . all but one subject required housekeeping assistance . the anticipated effect on function of environmental and socioeconomic factors could not be demonstrated in this sample . survival time and retention of ambulatory skills for an average of nine years after the second amputation in eight ( 33.3 % ) subjects who died before the end of the study was longer than previously described . the high rate of success in rehabilitation and in maintenance of ambulatory skills fully justifies intensive restorative efforts for this group of amputees . 
popliteal vascular trauma . a community experience . preventing amputation continues to be a significant challenge when popliteal vascular injuries occur . a retrospective review of cases from the san diego county ( california ) trauma system identified 108 patients with 76 blunt and 32 penetrating arterial injuries . the limb preservation rate was 88 % ; there were 13 amputations . the fracture-dislocated knee injury and close-range shotgun blasts were particularly limb threatening . in general , the trauma system achieved rapid evaluation of injuries and early operative intervention . all 13 patients who underwent amputations presented with signs of severe ischemia . concomitant injuries to the popliteal vein , tibial nerves , and soft tissue were significantly more frequent in patients who underwent amputations . the importance of complete fasciotomy for compartment hypertension , early reconstructive management of soft-tissue injuries , and expeditious arterial repair , frequently without preoperative roentgenographic suite arteriography , is emphasized . an aggressive , multidisciplinary approach is required to achieve a functional extremity when popliteal vascular trauma occurs . 
utility of computed tomography for surveillance of small abdominal aortic aneurysms . preliminary report . to assess the ability of computed tomography to predict the potential for expansion of small abdominal aortic aneurysms , we analyzed the computed tomographic scans of 30 patients who had two or more abdominal computed tomographic scans at least 6 months apart between 1979 and 1989 . clinical variables and 10 defined objective characteristics of computed tomography were evaluated . twenty-five men and five women with abdominal aortic aneurysms ranging from 30 to 64 mm ( mean , 45 mm ) were followed up with serial computed tomographic scans for a mean ( + / - se ) of 26 + / - 3 months . in 19 patients , enlargement of aneurysm diameter of 3 mm or more on serial computed tomographic scans was noted , whereas in 11 , there was little or no expansion . of the clinical variables studied , only serum cholesterol correlated with an increased risk of expansion . thrombus area , measured by computed tomography , was 7.3 + / - 0.9 cm2 in enlarging aneurysms vs 4.3 + / - 0.9 cm2 in stable aneurysms . based on these preliminary data , we conclude that computed tomography may provide valuable information about the likelihood of future expansion of small abdominal aortic aneurysms . 
treatment of traumatic rupture of the thoracic aorta . a 15-year experience . traumatic rupture of the thoracic aorta is increasing in incidence and remains a highly lethal injury . the morbidity associated with this injury also remains high . we retrospectively reviewed the records of all patients admitted to our emergency department with ruptured thoracic aortas during a 15-year period to determine the reason for this persistently high morbidity and mortality and to identify any factors that might improve the outcome . we found that patients who are in unstable condition on arrival in the emergency department or who become unstable before reaching the operating room are not likely to survive . patients who are injured in automobile accidents have a greater chance of survival than do those injured in motorcycle accidents or car-pedestrian accidents . patients who are in hemodynamically stable condition after aortic injury survive only if diagnosis and treatment are prompt . major complications of repair following thoracic aortic injury relate primarily to the length of cross-clamp time , and every effort should be devoted to keeping the cross-clamp time less than 30 minutes . 
angioscopy for intraoperative management of thromboembolectomy . our experience with angioscopy suggests that direct visualization of the arterial lumen during thromboembolectomy procedures would provide a more reliable method of assessing luminal morphologic characteristics than angiography alone . we inspected 32 grafts ( seven aortobifemoral , 18 infrainguinal bypass , and seven dialysis access fistula grafts ) in 32 patients . thirty-one patients had thrombotic events and one patient had an acute embolus . angioscopy following standard catheter thrombectomy revealed significant amounts of retained thrombus or neointima in all thrombectomies . angioscopic information from 18 patients with an infrainguinal bypass graft led to graft revision in six cases and placement of a new graft in 10 cases . one graft limb was replaced in seven aortobifemoral grafts , and multiple repeated thrombectomies were employed to extract debris in the remaining six cases . repeated graft thrombectomy was also beneficial in dialysis access fistulas . angioscopy allowed us to omit the completion angiogram and led to an improved technical result . we conclude that angioscopy is useful during thromboembolectomy procedures . 
failure of surgery to improve outcome in hypertensive putaminal hemorrhage . a prospective randomized trial . hypertensive putaminal hemorrhage remains a major cause of hemorrhagic stroke carrying extremely high morbidity . considerable controversy remains regarding the optimal form of therapy . between 1983 and 1989 we conducted a prospective randomized trial with three treatment strategies : best medical management , best medical management plus intracranial pressure monitoring , and surgical evacuation . only patients with significant deficit harboring a putaminal hematoma at least 3.0 cm in diameter were entered . the study was interrupted after 21 patients had been studied ( 9 , best medical management ; 4 , intracranial pressure monitoring ; and 8 , surgical evacuation ) . no differences were found among groups for age , admission blood pressure , and time interval between onset of symptoms and arrival at hospital . none of the subjects were capable of returning to prestroke activity . fifteen ( 71 % ) died or remained vegetative at 6 months , and only 4 ( 19 % ) were capable of independent life at home . of the 9 patients in the best medical management arm , 7 were dead or vegetative . in the surgical group , 4 patients died and only 2 were capable of independent life . these results suggest that current medical and neurosurgical therapies remain ineffective in preventing the devastating neurologic consequences of hypertensive putaminal hemorrhage . 
bretylium tosylate versus lidocaine in experimental cardiac arrest bretylium tosylate has been shown effective in the treatment of ventricular fibrillation and in the prevention of its recurrence . however , lidocaine is generally preferred because bretylium could have adverse hemodynamic effects related to its antiadrenergic action . to explore further the differences between these two antiarrhythmic agents , the authors compared the effects of bretylium , lidocaine , and saline on a standardized dog model of ventricular fibrillation followed by electromechanical dissociation ( emd ) . the protocol included three successive episodes of cardiac arrest in each animal . three minutes before each episode of ventricular fibrillation , 5 mg/kg of bretylium tosylate ( n = 11 ) , 1 mg/kg of lidocaine ( n = 9 ) or saline ( n = 12 ) were administered blindly . there was no difference in the duration of cardiac arrest ( bretylium , 8 min 18 sec ; lidocaine , 7 min 54 sec ; saline , 8 min 20 sec ) or the total doses of epinephrine required to resuscitate the animals . both bretylium and lidocaine appeared to preserve cardiac function 5 minutes after recovery , as stroke volume increased from 17.8 + / - 6.7 to 18.7 + / - 6.7 ml ( ns ) after bretylium and from 17.7 + / - 7.7 to 19.0 + / - 7.0 ml ( ns ) after lidocaine , but decreased from 19.0 + / - 5.3 to 14.6 + / - 6.0 ml ( p less than .05 ) after saline . during the first 10 minutes of emd , ventricular fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia recurred in 4 dogs treated with lidocaine , 3 dogs treated with saline , but no dog treated with bretylium ( p less than .05 between bretylium and saline ) . 
atrial fibrillation with cardiac tamponade as the initial manifestation of malignant pericarditis this article describes the case of a 72-year-old woman with cardiac tamponade and atrial fibrillation as the initial manifestation of a lymphoid malignancy . the pathogenesis of cardiac tamponade , various diagnostic modalities , and therapy of this condition are reviewed . 
critical care transportation medicine : new concepts in pretransport stabilization of the critically ill patient . regionalization of health care for trauma has become commonplace , and the same concept for critically ill medical/surgical patients is developing . recent evidence suggests that current stabilization measures used by transport teams can be inadequate for this critically ill patient population . in trauma , speed has been considered a necessity to get the patient to a facility which can not be carried out to the field , eg , an operating room . for acute medical illnesses , critical care transport teams can bring intensive care technology to the patient . accumulating evidence supports the premise that speed of transport is not as important as stabilization before transport , knowledge of hemodynamics during transport , and early use of critical care monitoring systems . other reports identify the need for initial evaluation and stabilization of critically ill patients by physicians at the critical care level of expertise . accordingly , critical care transportation teams have evolved , creating new notions of pretransport stabilization not applicable to previous transport systems . 
ventricular arrhythmias in hypertensive left ventricular hypertrophy . relationship to coronary artery disease , left ventricular dysfunction , and myocardial fibrosis . ventricular arrhythmias occur with increased frequency in hypertensive patients with left ventricular hypertrophy ( lvh ) . the relationships , however , between ventricular arrhythmias and coexistent coronary artery disease , left ventricular dysfunction and left ventricular fibrosis have not been examined in hypertensive lvh . we carried out coronary arteriography on fifteen hypertensive patients with lvh and nonsustained ventricular tachycardia ( greater than or equal to 3 consecutive ventricular complexes ) of whom nine ( 60 % ) were free of significant ( greater than 50 % stenosis ) coronary disease . to identify other possible correlates of left ventricular arrhythmias , 28 patients with lvh , comprising 17 with ventricular tachycardia and 11 without ventricular arrhythmias , underwent quantitative assessment of left ventricular function ( angiographic ejection fraction ) , left ventricular mass ( echocardiography ) , and left ventricular fibrosis ( endomyocardial biopsy ) . ejection fraction was not significantly different between the two groups ( 53 + / - 8 % v 62 + / - 2 % , p = ns ) . however , left ventricular mass was significantly greater ( 442 + / - 28 g v 339 + / - 34 g , p less than .05 ) and percentage fibrosis significantly higher ( 19 + / - 4 % v 3 + / - 1 % , p less than .001 ) in those patients with ventricular tachycardia . thus ventricular arrhythmias in hypertensive patients with lvh can not be entirely attributed to coexistent coronary disease , nor to left ventricular dysfunction , but are related to the degree of cardiac hypertrophy and subendocardial fibrosis . 
effects of n-3 fatty acids in essential hypertension . we examined the effects on blood pressure , plasma lipoproteins , and platelet function when marine oil supplements ( rich in n-3 fatty acids ) or vegetable oil supplements ( rich in n-6 fatty acids ) were added to the usual diets of patients with mild essential hypertension . in a randomized , double-blind , parallel-group study , patients received 50 g of either marine oil ( n = 8 ) or vegetable oil ( n = 8 ) daily for 6 weeks following a baseline observation period . diastolic blood pressure declined during treatment with fish oil ( mean + / - sem , 96 + / - 2 v 89 + / - 2 mm hg , p = .02 ) , but did not change with vegetable oil ( 92 + / - 1 v 94 + / - 1 mm hg ) . systolic blood pressure did not change significantly during either treatment . serum triglycerides declined ( by approximately 30 % ) in patients receiving only marine oil , but total cholesterol , ldl - , hdl - , hdl2 - , and hdl3-cholesterol-subfractions and apolipoproteins a-i and b were unchanged in both treatment groups . bleeding time increased by 33 % during treatment with marine oil but did not change with vegetable oil supplements . marine oil did not alter in vitro platelet aggregation thresholds . the lack of a significant correlation between blood pressure changes and platelet membrane fluidity , plasma renin activity , aldosterone , norepinephrine , or epinephrine suggests that these variables did not mediate the antihypertensive effect of the marine oil . we conclude that large doses of marine oil reduce diastolic blood pressure , lower triglycerides , and increase bleeding time in patients with mild hypertension . 
effect of captopril injection in patients with moderate to severe hypertension . the effect of intravenous captopril was studied in 24 white patients who had moderate to severe hypertension . patients received incremental doses of 1 to 10 mg delivered at 10 min intervals over 50 to 80 min . blood pressure ( bp ) was lowered within 5 to 10 min after the initial dose was administered and continued to decline , reaching a maximum response after 20 min ( 2 to 4 mg ) . at this time group mean bp fell from 175 + / - 3/111 + / - 1 to 166 + / - 3/97 + / - 2 mm hg ( p less than 0.01 ) . additional dose increments to an average cumulative dose of 40 mg did not increase the initial effect . no adverse side effects or symptomatic hypotension occurred in any subject . there was a significant correlation between diastolic bp decreases observed in response to intravenous captopril and subsequent long-term oral captopril therapy . the addition of hydrochlorothiazide increased the proportion of patients reaching normotension . we conclude that small intravenous bolus injections of captopril appear to be effective rapidly and are well tolerated in moderate to severe essential hypertension . short-term intravenous administration seems to predict the response to chronic oral captopril therapy . 
amiloride blocks the onset of acth-induced hypertension in the sheep . this study investigated the ability of two diuretics , amiloride and frusemide , to prevent the development of acth induced hypertension in conscious sheep . infusion of amiloride ( 20 mg/day ) or frusemide ( 50 mg/day ) for three days into normotensive sheep did not have any significant effects on blood pressure . amiloride blocked acth-induced hypertension and the sodium retention and hypokalemia which is usually associated with acth administration . frusemide failed to completely block the hypertension and potassium loss , however it blocked the transient initial urinary sodium retention associated with acth-induced hypertension . as frusemide failed to completely block the hypertension it is unlikely that the amiloride effect is due primarily to effects on urinary na excretion . it is possible that amiloride is exerting its antihypertensive effects by blocking sodium channels . 
randomized trials in the study of antihypertensive drugs . heterogeneity in response to antihypertensive drugs can be addressed by randomized trials in individual subjects . in such a trial a patient receives pairs of treatment periods ( one period of each pair active drug , one matched placebo , in random order ) ; patient and clinician are blinded to allocation , and treatment targets are monitored . these trials can optimize antihypertensive therapy in clinical practice and facilitate the investigation of new drugs and the study of pathophysiology . such trials also have potential in helping decide whether common , nonspecific symptoms reported by patients are really drug related . 
from the parallel group design to the crossover design , and from the group approach to the individual approach . the consequences of heterogeneity in response to antihypertensive drugs for the clinical development programs of new antihypertensive drugs and for the care of the individual hypertensive patient have not previously been sufficiently recognized . they play a role in the inappropriate choice of too-high daily doses of some antihypertensive drugs at the end of extensive international development programs . they are also implicated in the insufficient control of blood pressure observed in the long-term multicenter trials in hypertension , where some patients have been treated for several years with drugs that were not the most appropriate for their disease and which did not adequately control their blood pressure . in addition to the parallel group studies , the use of double-blind two-period or multiple period crossover designs can provide valid data for the dose-finding of new antihypertensive drugs and their comparative evaluation . at the end of the trial , these designs also offer each patient the opportunity to be treated with the right dose of the drug most appropriate for his or her disease . 
effect of captopril on renal function in hypertensive dogs with unilateral renal artery stenosis , studied with radionuclide dynamic scintigraphy . the kidneys of five hypertensive dogs with experimental unilateral renal artery stenosis were examined by 99mtc-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid ( dtpa ) and 131i-hippuran radionuclide dynamic scintigraphy at 10 and 40 min ( respectively ) following the administration of intravenous bolus injections of captopril . doses of 0.2 , 0.5 , and 1.0 mg/kg captopril reduced mean arterial pressure by 33 + / - 4 , 31 + / - 7 , and 51 + / - 4 mm hg and increased plasma renin activity by 40.1 + / - 9.8 , 57.6 + / - 3.2 , and 34.4 + / - 15.2 ng a1/ml/h , respectively . the time-activity curves of both 99mtc-dtpa and 131i-hippuran indicated that renal excretory function in the stenotic kidney was compromised with all three doses of captopril . however , if nitroprusside was used to reduce the mean arterial pressure to a level comparable to that with captopril , there was no appreciable increase in plasma renin activity and renal excretory function was only partially affected in the stenotic kidney . one hour after the administration of 0.5 mg/kg captopril , the function of the stenotic kidneys was partially restored and , by two hours , the time-activity curves were comparable to control scans . these data demonstrate a reversible , time-limited suppression of stenotic kidney function by captopril in renovascular hypertension and provide support for the use of captopril in the diagnosis of renovascular hypertension by radionuclide dynamic scintigraphy . 
nonpeptide angiotensin ii receptor antagonists . although the most direct way to interfere with the renin-angiotensin system ( ras ) is at the level of the angiotensin ii ( aii ) receptor , the currently available aii receptor antagonists are peptides still retaining significant agonistic properties with the obvious drawbacks of limited stability and lack of oral activity . we have characterized simple n-benzylimidazoles as weak , but selective aii receptor antagonists with a competitive mode of action . chemical modification of these early leads led to exp6155 and exp6803 , which show approximately 10 - and 100-fold higher affinity . oral activity was obtained for exp7711 , and in particular for exp9654 . this class of compounds displaces 3h-aii from its specific binding sites in various tissues . they competitively antagonize aii-induced responses in various in vitro and in vivo preparations , but do not influence aii-induced responses to kcl , norepinephrine , and vasopressin , nor do they affect converting enzyme or renin . in high renin models of elevated blood pressure , such as the renal hypertensive rat and sodium-depleted dog , these substances produce a sustained decrease in arterial pressure without changing heart rate after intravenous and oral ( exp7711 and exp9654 ) administration . none of these compounds showed agonistic activity in any of the above test systems . in conclusion , the nonpeptide structures described herein are selective and competitive aii receptor antagonists and add another dimension to the arsenal of drugs manipulating the ras . 
humoral factors determining the blood pressure response to converting enzyme inhibition and calcium channel blockade . renin and catecholamine levels were determined in patients with mild to moderate hypertension before and after treatment with sustained release diltiazem or captopril and were correlated with the blood pressure response to these antihypertensives . eight weeks of treatment with either agent led to equal decreases in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure . pretreatment plasma renin activity ( pra ) and plasma norepinephrine did not predict the blood pressure response to either agent . diltiazem significantly increased both pra and supine norepinephrine levels . however , in the diltiazem treated patients , there was no correlation between the change in plasma norepinephrine and the change in systolic or diastolic blood pressure . in contrast , there was a negative correlation ( p less than .05 ) between the reactive rise in pra and the decrease in systolic blood pressure . thus , the antihypertensive response to a calcium channel blocker may be determined , in part , by the reactive response of pressor systems . 
effects of felodipine on urinary albumin excretion and metabolic control in hypertensive non-insulin-dependent diabetics . the effect of a blood pressure reduction by 10 mg extended release felodipine once daily on urinary albumin excretion ( uae ) as well as the possible diabetogenic effect of felodipine was studied . a 2 x 12 week placebo-controlled double-blind crossover study was performed in 12 hypertensive non-insulin-dependent diabetic ( niddm ) patients without nephropathy on concomitant treatment with beta-blocker and/or a diuretic agent . metabolic control as estimated by fasting plasma glucose , hemoglobin a1c and fasting plasma c-peptide was unaltered after felodipine . blood pressure was significantly reduced by felodipine : systolic 166 + / - 26 mm hg ( placebo ) v 153 + / - 26 mm hg ( felodipine ) ( p less than .05 ) and diastolic 95 + / - 7 mm hg v 90 + / - 8 mm hg ( p less than .05 ) . heart rate was unchanged . there was no correlation between blood pressure and uae , but the relative change in uae expressed as uae placebo/uae felodipine was significantly correlated to the fall in systolic blood pressure ( r = 0.64 , p = .03 ) and mean blood pressure ( r = 0.66 , p = .02 ) . since microalbuminuria predicts proteinuria and reduced survival , early antihypertensive treatment may be beneficial in niddm as it is in iddm . long-term consequences on kidney function and mortality remains , however , to be elucidated . 
platelet norepinephrine and epinephrine concentration in patients with pheochromocytoma . platelet and plasma catecholamine concentrations were determined in 17 patients with surgically proven pheochromocytoma ( mean age 42.3 years ) ; in 31 patients with borderline hypertension ( mean age 35.3 years ) and in 9 healthy controls ( mean age 39.3 years ) . both platelet norepinephrine and epinephrine were significantly increased in patients with pheochromocytoma when compared with hypertensive and control groups ( p less than .001 ) . no correlation between platelet and plasma catecholamines was detected in all studied groups . the diagnostic accuracy of platelet catecholamine in pheochromocytoma is limited since increased platelet norepinephrine was found in 35.5 % and increased platelet epinephrine was found in 19.4 % of patients with essential hypertension . 
normalization of increased sodium sensitivity by maintenance hemodialysis . blood pressure ( bp ) becomes more sodium and body fluid sensitive as renal function deteriorates . thus , hypertension in chronic renal failure is mostly of the sodium sensitive type . we studied whether the increased sodium sensitivity ( ss ) can be restored to normal on the maintenance phase of hemodialysis ( hd ) therapy . body weight ( bw ) and bp ( specifically , mean arterial pressure [ map ] ) were measured after hd and before the next hd , and the body fluid sensitivity ( bfs ) was calculated as the ratio of changes in these factors on both introduction and maintenance phases in hd patients ( n = 56 ) who were not taking any antihypertensive drugs ( bfs = delta map/delta bw ) . in a preliminary study , the amount of interdialytic sodium intake ( qna + ) was measured ( n = 30 ) , and ss was calculated as the ratio of the change in map to qna + ( ss = delta map/qna + ) . interdialytic bw gain ( 3.1 + / - 0.1 kg ) was correlated with the amount of sodium intake ( 136 + / - 17 meq ) , resulting in a positive relationship between bfs and ss ( r = 0.79 , p less than .0001 ) . therefore , bfs was used as an index of ss . as a whole , bfs decreased from the introduction to the maintenance phase ( 6.5 + / - 1.0 to 3.5 + / - 0.6 mm hg/l , p less than .01 ) . this decrease was marked ( 6.2 + / - 1.1 to 2.9 + / - 0.6 mm hg/l , p less than .01 ) in patients ( n = 46 ) whose bp was normalized in the maintenance phase , while not significant ( 7.9 + / - 1.9 to 6.3 + / - 1.3 mm hg/l ) in patients ( n = 10 ) whose bp was still high . 
alarm reaction and serum k + in hypertensive patients . the effect of serum k + of the alarm reaction induced by the participation to an experimental noninvasive study was evaluated in 35 subjects with borderline hypertension and in 18 essential hypertensives . a group of 44 inpatients undergoing routine blood sampling served as a control . serum k + , blood pressure and heart rate were measured before ( casual ) and after ( baseline ) 20 min of rest in the recumbent position . baseline serum k + values were significantly higher than casual values in patients participating to the experimental protocol while no change was observed in inpatients undergoing routine blood sampling . the increase in serum k + induced by relaxation was significantly related to heart rate decrease ( r = 0.73 ) . after relaxation 75 % of patients had an increase in serum k + with a change greater than 10 % in about 35 % of patients . in a subgroup of patients who repeated the same test three times , the alarm reaction was still evident and not reproducible within each patient . these data suggest that when potassium levels are measured in outpatients undergoing diagnostic or experimental procedures falsely reduced levels can be found in a large proportion of subjects . 
studies of salt intake in hypertension . what can epidemiology teach us ? it has been suggested that small changes in population blood pressure will have a major impact upon the incidence of cardiovascular disease caused by blood pressure elevation . early reports indicated a close correlation between intercultural differences in salt intake and blood pressure . before such epidemiological associations can be translated into population advice , certain conditions have to be met . the association has to be validated scientifically , and persuasive evidence has to be produced that the relationship is causal and reversible by changes in salt intake . further , risk-benefit analysis should indicate that net harm is unlikely . finally it has to be demonstrated that the population measures being advocated will produce an adequate change in dietary salt intake . the small individual effects upon blood pressure being examined , and the prevailing changes in blood pressure and cardiovascular mortality suggest that data will always fall short of the ideal and therefore that extrapolation will always be necessary . nevertheless , a review of the present evidence indicates the inadequacies of the available data as a basis for population advice . 
calcium and blood pressure . an epidemiologic perspective . we reviewed the research literature on the epidemiologic relationship between blood pressure levels and calcium , with an emphasis on dietary intake . a conceptual framework for causal inference is summarized ; then the designs and results of observational and intervention studies are presented . of 25 reports of observational studies relating intake of calcium or calcium-rich foods to blood pressure , the majority found some evidence of an inverse association . however , many analyses did not support this relationship , and only two studies have confirmed the inverse association with a prospective design . nineteen randomized controlled clinical trials of calcium supplementation have been reported , excluding those exclusively in pregnant women . eleven of these showed no significant effects on blood pressure ; in two trials , both systolic and diastolic pressure were significantly reduced ; and in the remainder results were equivocal . pooled analyses yielded estimates of a small ( 1.8 mm hg ) , significant reduction in systolic blood pressure , but no effect on diastolic pressure . epidemiologic relationships with serum and urinary calcium , and the possible mechanisms of these effects , are also discussed . we conclude that the evidence from studies in humans is suggestive , but not conclusive , regarding a role for calcium in hypertension . recommendations for further epidemiologic studies are presented . 
blood pressure response to dietary calcium intervention in humans . epidemiological and experimental studies have suggested that dietary calcium deficiency may lead to the development of hypertension . this article reviews findings in human trials on calcium intervention with special reference to the responses of blood pressure and biochemical variables . calcium supplementation consistently resulted in decreased blood pressure in a subset of hypertensive and normotensive subjects , but led to increased blood pressure in some hypertensive patients . the variable blood pressure responses to calcium supplementation could not be predicted on the basis of routine biochemical parameters and appeared to be due to differences in the backgrounds of the subjects and/or the design and size of the trials . it is concluded that further studies are required on the hypotensive effect of calcium supplementation . 
sodium-calcium interactions and salt-sensitive hypertension . in humans with essential hypertension , salt-induced increases in blood pressure have been reported to correlate directly with salt-induced increases in intracellular free calcium [ ( ca2 + ] i ) in circulating mononuclear cells . these findings are consistent with the hypothesis that salt-induced increases in [ ca2 + ] i mediate the phenomenon of salt sensitivity . circumstantial evidence suggests that salt-induced increases in intracellular sodium or in plasma levels of 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin d might mediate salt-induced increases in [ ca2 + ] i and blood pressure . however , in humans with salt-sensitive hypertension , it remains to be determined : ( 1 ) whether salt-induced increases in white blood cell [ ca2 + ] i reflect corresponding increases in vascular smooth muscle [ ca2 + ] i ; ( 2 ) whether salt-induced increases in [ ca2 + ] i are a cause or consequence of salt-induced increases in blood pressure ; and ( 3 ) whether salt-induced increases in 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin d or intracellular sodium precede salt-induced increases in [ ca2 + ] i. 
putative mechanism of blood pressure reduction induced by increases in dietary calcium intake . an increase in dietary calcium intake lowers blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats and in some patients with arterial hypertension . the mechanisms by which this decrease come about are not clear . a membrane-stabilizing effect wrought by an increase in extracellular calcium would appear unlikely , since the increases in extracellular calcium concentration with increased dietary intake are minimal . calcium regulatory hormones may be the mediators , and a cybernetic framework has been suggested . striking defects have been reported in the calcium handling and hormonal household of the spontaneously hypertensive rat . however , a clear cut relationship in terms of a hormonal " template " has not yet been identified in prospective experiments . data have been presented to show that increased calcium intake has a direct effect on regulatory areas in the brain . however , the mechanisms by which such a response would be mediated are entirely unknown . increased calcium intake may induce natriuresis . it has been suggested that increased calcium intake helps the " salt sensitive " ; however , prospective studies to this effect have not been presented . increased calcium intake may induce phosphaturia . however , the evidence that blood pressure lowering effects are mediated by phosphate depletion are unconvincing . some evidence suggests that increased calcium intake may influence local regulatory processes which in turn influences cell integrity and growth . at this point , a unifying hypothesis is not available . however , the clues to various possibilities are intriguing . 
calcium regulating hormones in essential hypertension . importance of gender . alterations of calcium metabolism have been described in human essential hypertension and experimental hypertension . we investigated the interrelationship of parathyroid hormone ( pth ) and 1,25 ( oh ) 2-vitamin d ( 1,25 ( oh ) 2d ) in patients with untreated essential hypertension as compared to normotensive controls . the hypertensive subjects ( n = 75 ; 43 men , 32 women ) had a mean blood pressure of 138 + / - 8/95 + / - 5 mm hg as compared with 120 + / - 11/80 + / - 8 in the normotensive group ( n = 40 ; 22 men , 18 women ) . serum pth was measured with an intact molecule immunochemiluminometric assay and 1,25 ( oh ) 2d was measured with radioimmunoassay after hplc separation . hypertensive men had pth levels that were 36 % higher than normotensive men ( 5.3 + / - 2.9 v 3.9 + / - 0.8 pmol/l , p = .005 ) . when blood pressure was analyzed as a continuous variable , there was a direct correlation between it and serum pth in men ( r = .31 , p = .004 ) . in women , by contrast , there was no difference in serum pth between hypertensive and normotensive subjects and no relationship between blood pressure and the serum pth concentration . blood pressure was inversely correlated with serum phosphorus levels in both sexes ( r = -0.20 , p = .04 ) . in men , the elevated serum pth levels and depressed serum phosphorus levels would have predicted that serum 1,25 ( oh ) 2d would be higher in the hypertensive subjects . however , that was not observed , as serum 1,25 ( oh ) 2d was slightly lower in hypertensive ( 38.3 + / - 15.2 pg/ml ) than normotensive men ( 42.7 + / - 11.3 , p = .21 ) . 
calcium , parathyroid hormone , and vitamin d in the " prehypertensive " dahl salt-sensitive rat . the purpose of this study was to determine if alterations of calcium and calcium regulating hormones precede the onset of nacl-induced hypertension in the dahl salt-sensitive ( s ) rat . after a 5-day balance study , serum ionized calcium , parathyroid hormone ( pth ) , and 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin d concentrations were measured in dahl-s and salt-resistant ( r ) rats that had been maintained on a " normal " ( 1 % ) or high ( 7 % ) nacl intake . blood pressure was higher in dahl-s than dahl-r ( p less than .01 ) , but was not affected by 5 days of high nacl . on both nacl intakes , urine calcium excretion was increased , serum calcium was decreased , and serum pth and 1,25 dihydroxy vitamin d were increased in dahl-s compared to dahl-r ( p less than .01 ) . on the high nacl intake , fecal calcium was greater in dahl-s than in dahl-r , and net 5-day calcium balance was less positive in dahl-s ( p less than .05 ) . thus , alterations of calcium , pth , and vitamin d precede nacl-induced hypertension in dahl-s . these alterations may contribute to the development of hypertension in this animal model . 
calciotropic hormones in human and experimental hypertension . although altered cellular calcium handling plays a critical role in the pathophysiology of hypertension , little attention has been focused on the impact of calcium regulating hormones on this process . recent research provides evidence that parathyroid hormone , calcitonin , 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d , as well as newly described factors such as calcitonin gene-related peptide ( cgrp ) , exert target-organ-specific actions in cardiac and peripheral vascular tissues , are linked to the renin-aldosterone system , and thus to the control of sodium metabolism , and may directly participate in the hypertensive process , especially in low renin and salt sensitive forms of hypertensive disease . the metabolic set-point of these linked renin and calcium hormone systems , which serve to transduce environmental dietary mineral signals at the cellular level , determines the blood pressure consequences of sodium and calcium loading and/or restriction , and helps to explain the heterogeneous and seemingly inconsistent effects of these dietary maneuvers on blood pressure . measurement of renin and calcium factors in hypertension thus provides a physiological basis for individualized therapeutic recommendations in human hypertension . 
dietary ca2 + prevents nacl-sensitive hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats by a sympatholytic mechanism . the current study tested the hypothesis that dietary ca2 + supplementation reverses the nacl-sensitive component of hypertension and the associated neurochemical abnormalities in the nacl-sensitive spontaneously hypertensive rat ( shr-s ) . male shr-s were begun on one of four diets at 8 weeks of age : control ( 0.75 % nacl/0 .68 % ca2 + ) ; high nacl ( 8.00 % nacl/0 .68 % ca2 + ) ; high ca2 + ( 0.75 % nacl/2 .00 % ca2 + ) ; and high nacl/high ca2 + ( 8.00 % nacl/2 .00 % ca2 + ) . high nacl shr-s ( x2 weeks ) had higher mean arterial pressure ( map ) ( 161 + / - 4 mm hg ) than controls ( 149 + / - 3 mm hg ; p less than .05 ) . supplementation with ca2 + prevented the rise in map in high nacl rats , but did not alter map in controls . the 8 % nacl diet elevated plasma norepinephrine and reduced anterior hypothalamic ( aha ) norepinephrine stores and turnover ; concomitant ca2 + supplementation restored both plasma norepinephrine and aha norepinephrine turnover to normal . clonidine was microinjected into the aha of rats maintained on the four diets for 2 weeks to test the hypothesis that dietary ca2 + supplementation prevents the previously observed nacl-induced upregulation of alpha 2-adrenoceptors in aha . clonidine caused dose-dependent decreases in map that were greater in high nacl rats than in controls . the ca2 + supplementation prevented the exaggerated depressor response to clonidine in the high nacl group , but not in the controls . the ca2 + supplementation had no effect on pretreatment map or on map responses to clonidine in control nacl-resistant shr ( shr-r ) or wistar-kyoto ( wky ) rats . thus , dietary ca2 + supplementation prevents the nacl-induced exacerbation of hypertension and augmented depressor response to clonidine in shr-s by increasing noradrenergic input to aha , thereby preventing the upregulation of aha alpha 2-adrenoceptors . 
vascular and calcemic effects of plasma of spontaneously hypertensive rats . circulating substances that increase intracellular calcium , and other circulating substances that increase blood pressure , have been described in hypertensive animals and humans . in this study , we report the existence of a factor of the plasma of spontaneously hypertensive rats that does both . these effects were dose-dependent , and the time course for such effects was correlated with the time course for potentiation of pressor agents by the plasma . in addition , the plasma of spontaneously hypertensive rats was found to inhibit the depressor effects of parathyroid hormone . our results confirm the presence of a circulating hypertensive factor in the plasma of spontaneously hypertensive rats , which may act by increasing calcium uptake in vascular smooth muscle . these findings may also help explain the secondary increase in parathyroid hormone noted in some forms of human and experimental hypertension . 
epithelial abnormalities in intestine and kidney of the spontaneously hypertensive rat . a variety of perturbations of calcium metabolism are reported to occur in the spontaneously hypertensive rat ( shr ) compared to its genetic control the wistar-kyoto rat ( wky ) , including significant dysfunction of calcium handling by the proximal renal tubule of the shr , resulting in impaired active calcium transport in the gut and an apparent renal calcium leak . we explored the intestinal and renal epithelia of 12 - to 14-week-old shr and wky using electron microscopy . biochemical comparisons of these transport epithelia included measurements of three vitamin d dependent cellular proteins and one structural protein : alkaline phosphatase , intestinal cabp9k , renal cabp28k , and villin expression . electron microscopy demonstrated a patchy loss in microvilli in the shr , accounting for approximately 10 to 15 % of the total microvillar surface . in the kidney , morphological abnormalities were observed only in the proximal renal tubule . again , there was patchy loss of microvilli from the brush border membrane . in shr duodenal alkaline phosphatase activity was significantly reduced compared to the wky ( 0.145 + / - 0.002 v 0.186 + / - 0.002 integrated extinction/min/micron 3 x 10 ( 3 ) brush border ( p less than .001 ) . duodenal cabp9k and renal cabp28k were significantly reduced in shr compared to wky . there were no differences in villin expression . these data are consistent with the previously characterized disturbances of active calcium transport in the intestine and inappropriate renal calcium leak in the shr . while a possible link between these disturbances and hypertension remains to be determined , this study provides supportive evidence for a primary disturbance in cell calcium handling and transporting epithelia in this form of genetic hypertension . 
possible mechanisms of abnormal norepinephrine sensitivity and reactivity of resistance vessels and the development of hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats . a hypothesis . this study examined structural and functional changes of mesenteric resistance vessels in early , developing , and established stages of hypertension development in spontaneously hypertensive rats in an attempt to identify possible mechanisms of the development and maintenance of hypertension . our results suggest that the development of hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats may be caused by genetic structural and functional abnormalities of resistance vessels . both abnormalities may be caused by hyperreactivity to norepinephrine through an altered signal transduction process , including the regulation of protein kinase c in smooth muscle cells of resistance vessels in spontaneously hypertensive rats . 
contribution of calmodulin and protein kinase c to renin release in spontaneously hypertensive rats . this study was designed to evaluate the contribution of calmodulin and protein kinase c to renin release from isolated glomeruli of spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shr , okamoto and aoki ) . male 7-week-old shr and age-matched control wistar-kyoto rats ( wky ) were used in this study . isolated glomeruli were sealed in the superfusion chamber and perfused with krebs-ringer solution at a constant flow of 0.3 ml/min . renin release was increased by calmodulin inhibitor , w-7 , and protein kinase c inhibitor , h-7 , in both shr and wky . shr showed higher maximal levels of renin release by w-7 and lower maximal levels by h-7 compared to wky . these results indicate that calmodulin and protein kinase c play inhibitory roles in renin release from juxtaglomerular cells . the calmodulin-mediated suppression mechanism in renin release appears to be augmented in the shr , whereas the protein kinase c-mediated system is attenuated . 
increase of calmodulin activator in hypertension . modulation by dietary sodium and calcium . the aim of this study was to investigate the effects of dietary calcium and sodium on blood pressure ( bp ) in normotensive rats ( wistar , wky ) , spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shr ) and dahl rats and on calmodulin ( cam ) activator , a newly-discovered hydrophobic compound that increases cam activity in shr and spontaneously hypertensive mice ( shm ) tissues ( j clin invest 82:276 , 1988 ) . the cam activator was assessed by its capacity to stimulate a cam-dependent phosphodiesterase ( cam-pde ) . in wistar rats , which were fed a high sodium diet ( 3.5 % ) , bp significantly increased ( p less than .01 ) from 106 + / - 4 to 128 + / - 8 mm hg in parallel to an elevation of the cam activator from 1.57 + / - 0.14 to 2.80 + / - 0.18 u. wky , shr , and dahl salt-sensitive ( ds/jr ) and salt-resistant ( dr/jr ) rats were given low ( 0.15 % ) or high ( 2.5 % ) ca diets , both with 1 % sodium . in rats receiving high dietary ca the progression of hypertension diminished and bp was lower in shr ( 156 + / - 4 mm hg ) and young ds/jr rats ( 125 + / - 3 mm hg ) than in those receiving low dietary ca ( 192 + / - 10 and 183 + / - 2 mm hg ) . there was a concomitant decrease of cam activator in these animals to levels indistinguishable from those of wky or dr/jr rats . the activator was also found in the heart , kidneys and erythrocytes from shm . in the presence of exogenously added cam , lipidic extracts from the shm heart showed augmented cam-pde activity relative to normotensive preparations . this difference was eliminated by trifluoperazine . 
responses of cytosolic free calcium to adp in platelets of spontaneously hypertensive rats . abnormalities of ca2 + handling have been reported in patients with essential hypertension and in spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shr ) . in this study , responses of cytosolic ca2 + to adp in platelets of shr were examined . four - and seven-week-old male shr and age - and sex-matched wistar-kyoto rats ( wky ) were used . basal levels of the intracellular ca2 + concentration in platelets and responses to adp were estimated using fluorescent indicator fura-2 in the medium containing 1 mmol/l cacl2 and ca2 ( + ) - free buffer with 1 mmol/l egta . basal levels of platelet cytosolic ca2 + of shr were significantly higher than those of wky at 4 and 7 weeks of age in the presence of external ca2 + . however , no significant difference was observed in basal levels of platelet cytosolic ca2 + in the ca2 ( + ) - free egta-containing buffer between shr and wky . the peak cytosolic ca2 + concentration evoked by adp was significantly diminished in shr compared with wky in the absence of external ca2 + , whereas the responses of platelet cytosolic ca2 + to adp were similar in shr and wky in the presence of external ca2 + . these results suggest that release from intracellular ca2 + store is reduced in shr and that the regulation of cytosolic ca2 + in shr is more dependent on extracellular ca2 + compared with wky . 
calcium and contractile responses to phorbol esters and the calcium channel agonist , bay k 8644 , in arteries from hypertensive rats . this study examined the calcium dependency of contractions in arteries from rats made hypertensive by aortic coarctation and in rats with genetic hypertensive ( stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats ) . mesenteric artery and aortic strips were suspended in tissue baths for isometric force recording and contractions to two drugs were characterized : 1 ) a phorbol ester , tpa ( 12-o-tetrade-canoylphorbol-13-acetate ) , and 2 ) the calcium channel agonist , bay k 8644 . thoracic aortae and mesenteric arteries from hypertensive rats were more sensitive to the contractile properties of the protein kinase c activator tpa than comparable arteries from normotensive rats . in thoracic aortae from coarcted rats , the contractile activity of bay k 8644 was potentiated compared to normotensive values . in the presence of 19.2 mmol/l kcl , responses to bay k 8644 in thoracic aortae from normotensive rats were potentiated and did not differ from coarcted values . in contrast , contractions to bay k 8644 and tpa in abdominal aortae obtained below the coarctation were not different from normotensive values . upon exposure to 26.2 mmol/l kcl , contractions to bay k 8644 in abdominal aortae were potentiated and those in aortae from coarcted rats did not differ from sham values . contractile responses to both drugs were blocked by nifedipine and verapamil and responses were attenuated in calcium-free solution . we conclude that calcium channel function and its regulation by protein kinase c contribute to altered vascular reactivity in hypertension . further , these abnormalities have a pressure dependency , because they did not occur in abdominal aortae from coarcted rats . 
echocardiographic measurement of left ventricular mass and volume in normotensive and hypertensive rats . necropsy validation . although rats are commonly used to study left ventricular ( lv ) hypertrophy , measurement of lv mass and dimensions has required killing the rat . to determine the accuracy of echocardiography in rats , blinded crossectional area ( csa ) and lv mass measurements using either the cube function ( lvm ) or an elliptical model ( lvmel ) from high resolution m-mode echocardiograms were compared to necropsy lv weight ( 0.28 to 1.5 g ) , in 41 normotensive ( body weight 116 to 762 g ) and 17 hypertensive rats ( 350 to 560 g ) . postmortem chamber volumes in 28 normal rats ( 0.02 to 0.19 ml ) were also compared to echocardiographic volumes derived from the elliptical model . correlation with lv weight was r = 0.87 for lvm , 0.90 for csa and 0.93 for lvmel ( all p less than .00001 ) . comparison of hypertensive and body-weight-matched normotensive rats revealed the upper normal limit for both lvmel and csa to have 89 % sensitivity and 100 % specificity for detection of post mortem lv hypertrophy . necropsy lv volumes were more closely related to systolic echocardiographic volumes than to diastolic volumes ( r = 0.78 v 0.71 , both p less than .00001 ) , compatible with the effects of post mortem contracture . stroke volume determined invasively in 5 wistar rats by thermodilution was similar to that obtained using elliptical model echo volumes in 5 rats of the same body size ( 0.35 + / - 0.05 v 0.30 + / - 0.06 ml/beat ) . echocardiography can be used to evaluate lv structure and function in rats and to detect in vivo lv anatomic differences induced by hypertension . 
age-related changes in membrane fluidity of erythrocytes in essential hypertension . in the present study , age - and calcium-related changes in the membrane fluidity of erythrocytes were examined in patients with essential hypertension by use of electron spin resonance method ( esr ) . the erythrocytes were obtained from patients with essential hypertension . we examined the esr spectra for a fatty acid spin label agent ( 5-nitroxy stearate ) incorporated into the erythrocyte membranes . the values of outer hyperfine splitting and order parameter ( s ) were significantly higher in subjects with essential hypertension than in the normotensive subjects . this finding indicates that the membrane fluidity of erythrocytes was lower in essential hypertension . calcium-loading of erythrocytes with the ca-ionophore a23187 decreased the membrane fluidity ( s value was increased ) more strongly in essential hypertension than in the normotensive subjects . furthermore , this ca-induced change in membrane fluidity was significantly correlated with age in essential hypertension . these results demonstrate that the membrane fluidity of erythrocytes is markedly decreased by calcium , especially in essential hypertension in older patients . this suggests an increased calcium-sensitivity of cell membranes in the aged hypertensive patient . 
post-transplant hypertension . post-transplant hypertension remains an important risk factor for cardiovascular mortality and graft function . there are multiple mechanisms responsible for post-transplant hypertension . the details of these mechanisms are poorly understood . steroids , acute and chronic rejection , recurrent renal disease , native kidney disease , and renal artery stenosis have all been implicated in causing post-transplant hypertension . with the addition of cyclosporine , a known hypertensive agent , to the immunosuppressive armamentarium , the evaluation of post-transplantation hypertension has become difficult . presently , medical therapy is initially directed toward the complications of cyclosporine nephrotoxicity . empirically , converting enzyme inhibitors are added to the antihypertensive regimen . further management is aimed at identification of specific causes of post-transplant hypertension . unfortunately , because of the multifactorial etiology of post-transplant hypertension and a lack of detailed information about the mechanisms , medical and surgical therapy are often unrewarding . further study is needed to clarify the mechanisms involved in post-transplant hypertension , and thus direct therapy . 
cardiac arrhythmias from a malpositioned greenfield filter in a traumatic quadriplegic . a case study is presented of premature greenfield filter discharge with intracardiac migration and resulting life-threatening arrhythmias . these arrhythmias also interfered with the patient 's transition from ventilatory support via orotracheal intubation to noninvasive positive airway pressure ventilatory support methods . the patient 's arrhythmias were controlled by a demand cardiac pacemaker and cardiac glycoside therapy . no anticoagulants were used . she had no further filter migration nor significant complications for 16 months after hospital discharge . 
does blood rheology revert to normal after myocardial infarction ? after myocardial infarction there is an acute deterioration of the flow properties of blood . the present study was designed to test whether the abnormality persists . blood and plasma viscosity , red cell aggregation and deformability , haematocrit , erythrocyte sedimentation rate , white cell count , cholesterol , and triglycerides were measured in 51 patients who had had a myocardial infarction 5.4 ( mean ) years before . results in patients and controls were compared and matched pairs with identical cardiovascular risk factors were also selected . blood viscosity and red cell aggregation were increased and red cell deformability was decreased in the 51 patients . the abnormalities were independent of the interval since infarction and persisted for years . the rheological abnormalities present after myocardial infarction are at least partly independent of the acute event and acute phase reactions . they contribute to the reduced perfusion of the microcirculation of the heart . 
prospective evaluation of a protocol for induction of sustained ventricular tachycardia in patients referred to a tertiary centre . all eight stages of a stimulation protocol that used one then two extrastimuli from the right ventricular apex in sinus rhythm and three ventricular drive rates ( 100 , 120 , and 140 beats/min ) were performed in 24 patients with recurrent spontaneous sustained ventricular tachycardia despite drug treatment . twenty two of the patients had sustained a previous myocardial infarct and 18 were on long term treatment with amiodarone . sustained ( greater than 30 s ) ventricular tachycardia was induced in all patients . two extrastimuli were significantly more likely to induce sustained ventricular tachycardia than one extrastimulus , both overall and individually for the three ventricular drive rates . a ventricular drive rate of 140 beats/min was significantly more likely to induce ventricular tachycardia than ventricular drive rates of 100 and 120 beats/min which were significantly more effective than sinus rhythm . a ventricular drive rate of 140 beats/min with one or two extrastimuli induced ventricular tachycardia in 23/24 ( 95 % ) of the patients in this study . the full eight stage protocol was progressive separately for both extrastimuli and ventricular drive rate but the last two stages ( ventricular drive rate of 140 beats/min with one or two extrastimuli ) were as effective as the entire protocol in inducing ventricular tachycardia . 
placebo controlled trial of xamoterol versus digoxin in chronic atrial fibrillation . thirteen patients in chronic atrial fibrillation with a normal resting heart rate but with exercise tachycardia and episodes of bradycardia were randomised to treatment periods of two weeks on xamoterol ( 200 mg twice daily ) , low dose digoxin , or placebo , in a blind crossover study . the results ( mean sem ) of symptom scores , a treadmill exercise test , and 24 hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring were obtained . xamoterol improved symptom scores and controlled exercise heart rate better than digoxin . xamoterol was better than digoxin or placebo in reducing the heart rate response to exercise and tended to improve exercise duration . xamoterol , by reducing the daytime maximum hourly heart rate and increasing the night time minimum hourly heart rate , significantly reduced the difference between the two compared with placebo . in contrast , digoxin tended to reduce both the maximum and minimum hourly heart rates through day and night . both the frequency and duration of ventricular pauses were reduced by xamoterol but tended to increase with digoxin . xamoterol reduced both the circadian variation in ventricular response to atrial fibrillation and exercise tachycardia by modulating the heart rate according to the prevailing level of sympathetic activity . these changes were translated into symptomatic benefit for the patients studied . 
use of computed tomographic scanning and aortography in the diagnosis of acute dissection of the thoracic aorta . before the introduction of computed tomographic ( ct ) scanning , aortography was the investigation of choice for acute aortic dissection . between 1978 and 1982 , 24 patients were referred to the brompton hospital with suspected acute thoracic aortic dissection ; all had aortography with diagnosis confirmed at surgery ( n = 12 ) or necropsy ( n = 2 ) or supported by clinical outcome ( n = 8 ) . one patient in whom aortography was negative had type b dissection at necropsy and another patient was lost to follow up . ct scanning became available in this unit in 1983 and between 1983 and 1987 was used as the only imaging investigation in 32 patients with suspected acute dissection of the thoracic aorta while in a further 22 patients aortography was used alone . results were confirmed at surgery ( n = 18 ) , necropsy ( n = 3 ) , or supported by clinical outcome ( n = 31 ) . two patients were lost to follow up . in an additional 16 patients both aortography and ct scanning were performed with concordant findings in 10 . in six in whom the results were discordant , aortography was normal in three in whom subsequent ct scanning showed type b dissection and ct scanning was normal in three patients in whom aortography showed type a dissection . both ct scanning and aortography are reliable techniques for assessment of suspected acute dissection of the thoracic aorta . both techniques misdiagnose occasionally and the frequency of misdiagnosis will be minimised by performing both investigations in patients where the level of clinical suspicion is high and the initial investigation negative . ct scanning tends to miss type a dissection and in view of the success of surgery in this condition this failing has the more serious clinical consequences . 
doppler echocardiographic evaluation of pulmonary artery flow after modified fontan operation : importance of atrial contraction . doppler echocardiography was used to evaluate blood flow in the pulmonary artery in 14 patients 2 to 42 months ( mean ( sd ) 17 ( 12 ) months ) after a modified fontan operation incorporating a direct atriopulmonary anastomosis . preoperatively six patients had tricuspid atresia , six had a double inlet left ventricle , and two had pulmonary atresia with an intact ventricular septum . the postoperative rhythm was sinus in 11 patients , junctional in one , ventricular pacing in one , and atrioventricular sequential pacing in one . in one patient the doppler trace was unsatisfactory for analysis . in all patients forward flow in the pulmonary artery had biphasic peaks related to both atrial and ventricular contraction . the mean ( sd ) peak flow velocity that was synchronous with atrial contraction was 80 ( 30 ) cm/s and that synchronous with ventricular contraction was 74 ( 23 ) cm/s . the atrial contribution to total pulmonary artery flow , assessed by velocity-time integrals , varied between 22 % and 73 % ( mean ( sd ) 45 ( 14 ) % ) . in patients with tricuspid atresia the mean ( sd ) peak flow velocity with atrial contraction was 90 ( 27 ) cm/s and that with ventricular contraction was mean ( sd ) 68 ( 24 ) cm/s . in patients with double inlet left ventricle the mean ( sd ) peak flow velocity was 67 ( 36 ) cm/s with atrial contraction and 80 ( 25 ) cm/s with ventricular contraction . the atrial contribution to total pulmonary blood flow in patients with tricuspid atresia was significantly higher ( 53 ( 11 ) % ) than in those with double inlet left ventricle ( 37 ( 14 ) % ) . pulmonary artery flow after modified fontan operation was biphasic and was related to both atrial and ventricular contraction . 
primary balloon dilatation of coarctation of the aorta in neonates . primary balloon dilatation of coarctation of the aorta was attempted in 10 consecutive neonates ( age range 2-23 days ) . the coarctation site was crossed and the balloon inflated in all but one patient . in two patients with associated severe isthmal hypoplasia there was no change in the gradient after dilatation . in the remainder , the residual gradients were trivial and angiography showed complete relief of coarctation . severe recoarctation developed 5-12 weeks after dilatation in five patients , each considered to have had an excellent initial result . the coarctation was rapidly progressive in three patients in whom doppler studies within two weeks of the development of recoarctation had shown no significant gradient . in the other two patients progressive restenosis was charted by doppler examinations over the course of 6-8 weeks . three patients had a second , initially successful , dilatation procedure . one patient remained well with no residual gradient 18 weeks later . stenosis recurred within eight weeks in the other two , and both have undergone successful surgical repair . balloon dilatation of a native coarctation of the aorta gave excellent immediate results in most neonates . severe isthmal hypoplasia is , however , a contraindication to balloon dilatation and early restenosis is an important problem . these results do not support the continued use of primary balloon dilatation of coarctation of the aorta in neonates . 
transoesophageal echocardiography in the longitudinal axis : correlation between anatomy and images and its clinical implications . transoesophageal echocardiographic imaging in the longitudinal axis is a recent addition to the non-invasive evaluation of congenital and acquired heart disease . the technique provides unique images of intracardiac anatomy but their interpretation remains difficult . a heart specimen was therefore cut according to the echocardiographic imaging planes to elucidate the morphological details . the results suggested that longitudinal transoesophageal imaging complements the transverse axis approach . it gave new imaging information on the right ventricular outflow tract and the pulmonary trunk , the atrioventricular valves , the interventricular septum , the cardiac apex , and the thoracic aorta . in particular , it showed the entire length of the right ventricular outflow tract . when longitudinal imaging was used in combination with transverse imaging almost all the thoracic aorta could be examined . imaging in the longitudinal axis may also allow better assessment of the mechanisms of atrioventricular valve regurgitation . 
rash after treatment with anistreplase . a palpable purpura developed on the legs and lower abdomen of a woman of 54 five days after she was treated with anistreplase anisoylated plasminogen streptokinase activator complex ( apsac ) for an acute myocardial infarction . histological examination of a skin biopsy specimen taken 6 days after treatment showed leucocytoclastic vasculitis . the rash resolved within two weeks and there were no other complications . 
the effect of abdominal surgery on the serum concentration of the tumour-associated antigen ca 125 . the ca 125 assay is used to monitor the course of disease in women with adenocarcinoma of the genital tract . we measured serum ca 125 levels longitudinally in three different groups of patients who had normal serum ca 125 levels ( less than or equal to 16 u/ml ) before extensive intraperitoneal abdominal surgery ( group 1 , second-look laparotomy in 28 women with ovarian cancer ; group 2 , radical hysterectomy in 42 patients with cervical cancer ; group 3 , 13 men and one woman who had aortic surgery for atherosclerotic occlusive disease or aneurysm formation ) . following surgery , rising serum ca 125 levels were observed in 69 out of the 84 patients ( 82 % ) , irrespective of the primary diagnosis , type of operation or sex . the highest levels were found during the second week after the operation ( range 3-336 u/ml ) and decreased gradually thereafter , to become normal at 8 weeks after surgery . it was concluded that abdominal surgery interferes with the specificity of ca 125 as a tumour marker during the early postoperative period . 
haemostatic changes during continuous oestradiol-progestogen treatment of postmenopausal women . to identify changes in haemostatic balance during continuous oestradiol-progestogen treatment , 60 postmenopausal women with climacteric complaints , mean age 55.4 years ( range 44-68 ) were randomly allocated to receive one of four hormone replacement regimens for one year . all four formulations were administered daily and continuously , each contained 2 mg of 17 beta-oestradiol in combination with either norethisterone acetate , 1 mg ( group a ) or 0.5 mg ( group b ) or megestrol acetate , 5 mg ( group c ) or 2.5 mg ( group d ) . no significant changes occurred during treatment within or between the groups in platelet count , fibrinogen and 2-antiplasmin . activated partial thromboplastin time was shortened ( p less than 0.05 ) in group d and a decline in factor vii activity and antigen ( p less than 0.001 ) and in atiii activity ( p less than 0.05 ) was noted in group a. protein c tended to decline in all treatment groups but statistically significant changes were noted only in groups a and c. two women developed crural thrombosis during the observation period . 
haemorheological changes in patients with retinal vein occlusion after isovolaemic haemodilution . in 83 patients with central retinal vein occlusion and branch vein occlusion we measured the haematocrit ( hct ) , plasma viscosity ( pv ) , red cell aggregation ( rca ) , red cell filterability ( rcf ) and apparent whole blood viscosity ( wbv ) . a control group ( n = 41 ) was matched for sex , age , and cardiovascular risk factors . measurements were performed before and after treatment with isovolaemic haemodilution ( ihd ) . we found no significant differences between patients with retinal vein occlusion ( rvo ) and control subjects in haematocrit , plasma viscosity , red cell aggregation , and red cell filterability and no increased whole blood viscosity in the patient group . patients with ischaemic retinal vein occlusion and non-ischaemic retinal vein occlusion did not show different haemorheological parameters either . after treatment with haemodilution , only the haematocrit and whole blood viscosity were significantly decreased , and there were no changes in plasma viscosity , red cell aggregation or red cell filterability . 
homocystinuria presenting as central retinal artery occlusion and longstanding thromboembolic disease . a case of central retinal artery occlusion in a patient with a 10-year history of unexplained thromboembolic disease due to a secondary hypercoagulable state is presented . ophthalmological examination led to the final diagnosis . 
lobular pattern of choriocapillaris in pre-eclampsia with aldosteronism . we report a case of geographic or mosaic pattern yellowish opaque foci in the left eye of a 36-year-old woman who suffered from severe pre-eclampsia . though the geographic lesions resulted in chorioretinal atrophy , the mosaic lesion led to no significant atrophy . these two findings were both diagnosed as manifestations of choroidal ischaemia , the former due to choroidal artery occlusion , the latter to transient insufficiency of choroidal circulation , which reflects the lobular pattern of the choriocapillaris . 
pulse oximetry : a new non-invasive assessment of peripheral arterial occlusive disease . peripheral skin perfusion reflects the level of vascularity and viability of a limb and may help in planning the site of amputation or bypass surgery in patients with vascular disease . this study used peripheral pulse oximetry in 20 healthy volunteers and in 20 patients with limb ischaemia . pulse oximetry saturation levels ( psa , o2 ) were compared with ankle artery doppler pressures and transcutaneous oxygen measurements ( ptc , o2 ) . recordings were taken at two standard sites distally and referenced to finger and forearm to calculate an index . a significant correlation was found between ptc , o2 and psa , o2 in patients with ischaemia ( r = 0.68 , p less than 0.01 ) . a further group of 12 patients with acute limb ischaemia was similarly assessed before and after revascularization . after revascularization mean ( s.d. ) ptc , o2 increased from 38 ( 13 ) to 44 ( 1 ) mmhg ( p greater than 0.05 ) and mean ( s.d. ) psa , o2 increased from 86 ( 3 ) to 90 ( 4 ) per cent ( p less than 0.01 ) . these data suggest that pulse oximetry is a more sensitive index of peripheral perfusion than ptc , o2 or ankle artery doppler pressure and that , because of its accuracy and simplicity , it merits further use . 
through-knee amputation in high-risk patients with vascular disease : indications , complications and rehabilitation . during a 10-year period 104 patients ( mean age 72 years ) had 106 through-knee amputations . indications for surgery were : limb gangrene , 67 ( 64 per cent ) ; ischaemic ulceration , 22 ( 21 per cent ) ; rest pain , 9 ; knee contractures , 6 . thirty patients had had previous unsuccessful vascular reconstructive surgery and five had had a failed femoral embolectomy . the through-knee disarticulation used lateral skin flaps . the mortality was 21 ( 20 per cent ) . of the 83 survivors , 59 ( 71 per cent ) underwent uncomplicated primary wound healing ; 36 ( 43 per cent ) of the survivors were unsuitable for rehabilitation on a prosthesis . the remaining 47 ( 57 per cent ) were walking before discharge 30-130 days ( mean 68 days ) after amputation . through-knee amputation is a rapid , relatively bloodless , amputation and is a useful debridement procedure . the many surgical and functional advantages , in conjunction with the recent reports of better rehabilitation compared with the above-knee or gritti-stokes amputation , suggests that the through-knee amputation deserves greater consideration . 
recent changes in the treatment of aortoiliac occlusive disease by the oxford regional vascular service . over the four years from 1 january 1985 to 31 december 1988 , 192 patients were treated for aortoiliac occlusive disease by the oxford regional vascular service . the number of patients treated by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty increased from two in the first year of the study to 34 in the third year of the study . this increase was accompanied by a decrease in the proportion of patients treated by aortobifemoral bypass but the proportion of patients treated by extra-anatomic bypass remained constant at around 30 per cent . twice as many patients were treated in the fourth year as in the first year of the study so that the number of surgical operations increased despite many patients being treated exclusively by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty . the number of patients requiring mandatory treatment for limb salvage increased by 109 per cent and optional treatment for intermittent claudication by 85 per cent . the introduction of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty in oxford has coincided with an increase in the number of patients presenting with symptomatic aortoiliac occlusive disease and has allowed twice as many people to be treated while the number of aortobifemoral bypass operations has remained unchanged . it is concluded that the introduction of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty has not only generated its own workload but has also led to an increased demand for surgical reconstruction for aortoiliac occlusive disease . 
conservative management of asymptomatic popliteal aneurysm . historical review shows that the treatment of popliteal aneurysm has developed by trial and error and there is disagreement about the proper management of the symptomless patient . in 1981 a policy of conservative management for asymptomatic popliteal aneurysm was adopted in this unit . since that time we have also managed nine patients with thrombosed popliteal aneurysms by arteriography and low-dose intra-arterial streptokinase . six patients treated within 72 h of occlusion achieved significant ( 70-100 per cent ) lysis , but streptokinase was ineffective in those treated 10 or more days after the thrombosis . of the six patients with significant lysis , three were treated by elective reconstruction and two by anticoagulation . one patient who had significant lysis died . vascular patency of all five successfully treated limbs was maintained and no limb loss occurred in those who presented late and failed to achieve significant lysis . these results reinforce the view that thrombolysis is the treatment of choice for thrombosed popliteal aneurysms . the low complication rate for asymptomatic popliteal aneurysms and the advent of safe , effective thrombolysis indicate that operation for symptomless popliteal aneurysm is no longer required . 
acute limb ischaemia : the place of intravenous streptokinase . intravenous streptokinase infusions ( 100,000 units/h ) have been used to treat 48 patients , with 50 episodes of acute limb ischaemia who were unlikely to benefit from a surgical approach . these included 17 acute thromboses , 14 late or distal emboli and 19 bypass graft occlusions . overall , 17 ( 34 per cent ) instances had complete lysis with reappearance of distal pulses and a further 28 per cent had clinical improvement without change in pulse status . final outcome after 30 days was limb salvage in 60 per cent , amputation in 24 per cent and death in 16 per cent , but this was achieved after eight patients without lysis had vascular reconstructive surgery . serious complications were infrequent , but included a fatal stroke , a haematemesis and two episodes of distal embolization . the outcome was not related to the duration of ischaemia or the site of occlusion . lysis was more frequent with emboli ( 50 per cent ) and graft occlusions ( 47 per cent ) than arterial thromboses ( 6 per cent ) . limb salvage was more likely in patients with no neurological deficit in the limb ( 70 per cent ) than if a deficit was present ( 37 per cent ) . in conclusion , intravenous streptokinase produced a moderate benefit with low morbidity and has a role in acute limb ischaemia if surgery is inappropriate and intra-arterial lysis unavailable . in particular , selected patients with emboli or graft occlusions without a neurological deficit may be most suitable . 
early detection and treatment of hyperlipidemia : physician practices in canada . we surveyed primary care physicians in canada to determine their current practices regarding the detection and treatment of hyperlipidemia in asymptomatic adults 20 years of age or more and to determine the role of selected patient characteristics ( age , sex and the presence of coronary heart disease [ chd ] risk factors ) in their management decisions . the self-administered questionnaire was completed by 428 of 804 family physicians and general practitioners . the proportion of physicians who reported having tested at least 50 % of their adult patients varied from 29 % to 85 % and was related to the number of chd risk factors present and the patient 's age . the proportion of respondents who reported starting dietary or drug therapy among patients with a cholesterol level of 6.2 mmol/l or less increased as the number of chd risk factors increased and was not related to patient age or sex . according to the factors examined our results suggest that primary care physicians in canada select patients for screening and treatment mainly on the basis of chd risk factors present and that their approach is more conservative than that recommended by the canadian and us consensus conferences . 
thromboembolism . a complication of weekly chemotherapy in the treatment of non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . in a retrospective survey of 85 patients who received chemotherapy as treatment for non-hodgkin 's lymphomas , the authors found that clinically apparent thromboembolic disorders occurred in four of 11 patients receiving weekly chemotherapy , and in none of 74 patients who were treated on less intensive schedules , suggesting that intensive weekly chemotherapy is thrombogenic . the possible mechanisms of this effect are discussed . 
catheterization of coronary artery bypass graft from the descending aorta . the increasing frequency of reoperation for coronary artery disease has led to the use of a variety of grafts . this report describes the catheter technique for selective opacification of a saphenous vein graft from the descending thoracic aorta to the posterior coronary circulation . 
coronary angioplasty of anomalous coronary arteries : notes on technical aspects . five patients with significant atherosclerotic lesions of anomalous coronary arteries underwent coronary angioplasty of the anomalous vessel . four patients had anomalous circumflex artery and 1 had an anomalous right coronary artery . angiographic and clinical success was achieved in all 5 patients . to ensure adequate equipment selection special consideration should be given to angiographic characteristics of these vessels , such as the orifice configuration , exit angulation , the route the artery traverses and the location of the stenotic lesions . major determinants for successful angioplasty in these patients are guiding catheter selection and advancement of the balloon catheter to the very proximal portion of the anomalous vessel to subsequently facilitate guide wire advancement . this data indicates that balloon angioplasty can be successfully utilized in patients with significant atherosclerotic disease of anomalous coronary arteries . 
angioplasty of occluded coronary arteries : use of thin shaft balloon over-the-wire system without pre-dilatation . a retrospective review was done on 13 consecutive patients who underwent ptca of totally occluded coronary arteries using a recently released thin shaft balloon over-the-wire angioplasty system . balloon size was determined by the closest fit to the arterial size and used without predilatation techniques . this technique was initially successful in 12 patients with only 2 clinically insignificant episodes of distal embolization and one probable early reclosure . using thin shaft angioplasty systems , balloon dilatation of totally occluded coronary arteries can be done safely with a single balloon in many cases resulting in simplified procedures and economic benefits . 
probe angioplasty of total coronary occlusion using the probing catheter technique . coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) of total coronary occlusion is limited by the inability of guidewires and conventional dilating catheters to cross all such lesions . a new technique was therefore prospectively evaluated for ptca of these lesions using the ultra-low-profile probe " balloon on a wire " device . an intracoronary probing catheter was used to facilitate crossing the stenosis with a guidewire and then to deliver a probe into the obstruction for balloon dilatation . this technique was utilized in 64 consecutive patients with " absolute " coronary occlusions demonstrating no angiographically detectable antegrade coronary flow . successful dilatation was achieved in 47 ( 73 % ) . among 33 occlusions of less than 3 mo duration 31 ( 94 % ) were successfully dilated whereas only 16 of 31 more chronic occlusions were dilated ( p less than .01 ) . chronic occlusions with a tapered morphology and those located more than 1 cm from a branch point were more frequently dilatable . there were no serious complications including no vessel perforations with this technique . the probing catheter technique offers a safe and effective method for the dilatation of recent coronary occlusions by using balloon on a wire technology . 
influence of catheter technology and adjuvant medication on acute complications in percutaneous coronary angioplasty . we report on the complication rates in 660 consecutive coronary angioplasties ( 725 lesions ) performed using four procedures that differed with respect to catheter technology and adjuvant medication . after the ptca regimen in our laboratory had been changed from conventional steerable systems to the monorail technique , we observed a significant increase in the incidence of transient vessel occlusions from 2.6 % to 7.7 % , of permanent occlusions from 3.6 % to 8.8 % , and of intracoronary thrombus-formation from 2.6 % to 5.5 % . this was associated with the frequent observation of thrombotic material on the partially teflon-coated guidewires . coronary perfusion with urokinase ( 1,670-6 ,670 u/min ) lead to a further increase in the complication rates ( 10.4 % / 10.3 % / 6.5 % ) . our present percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) - regimen ( monorail technique with p.e.t. balloons , fully silicon-coated guidewires , no urokinase ) shows an incidence of 3.8 % for intermittent and recurrent coronary occlusions and 1.9 % for permanent occlusions . urokinase did not prevent intracoronary thrombus formation with the monorail technique . furthermore , we suspect that in the case of ptca-induced regional intimal dissection , fibrinolysis can prevent reestablishment of intima adherence to the vessel wall . because five procedural deaths were observed in the 212 patients treated with i.c. urokinase as opposed to three deaths in the 448 procedures without urokinase , we feel that i.c. urokinase in ptca is a potentially harmful regimen . we suggest that the monorail technique should be performed with fully silicon-coated guidewires and without urokinase . 
regression of infundibular pulmonary stenosis after successful balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty in adults . between july 1985 and march 1988 , 22 adult patients with congenital pulmonary stenosis underwent balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty . there were 10 males and 12 females aged 16-45 ( average 25 + / - 9.9 ) years . all patients had additional mild to severe infundibular stenosis ; 16 were restudied 6-36 ( mean 12.6 ) months later by repeat catheterization . student 's t-test was used for comparison of data . right ventricular ( rv ) systolic pressure before dilatation was 84-196 ( mean 129 + / - 32.3 ) mm hg , and the peak pulmonary gradient ( ppg ) was 60-176 ( mean 111 + / - 33.2 ) mm hg immediately after dilatation . the rv systolic pressure dropped to 32-140 ( mean 59.2 + / - 27 ) ( p less than 0.001 ) ; and ppg dropped to 10-113 ( mean 37.8 + / - 26.4 ) ( p less than 0.001 ) , and the infundibular gradient ranged from 8 to 113 ( mean 35.1 + / - 25.8 ) mm hg . the infundibular diameter , before dilatation , ranged from 2 to 15 ( mean 9.5 + / - 4 ) mm hg . at repeat catheterization , the rv systolic pressure dropped further to 33-66 ( mean 42.8 + / - 9.7 ) mm hg and the ppg was reduced to 0-48 ( mean 18.4 + / - 10.9 ) mm hg ( p less than 0.001 ) . the infundibular gradient regressed to 0-34 ( mean 15 + / - 8.8 ) mm hg ( p less than 0.001 ) . the infundibular diameter increased to 8-25 ( mean 15.8 + / - 5.4 ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . it is concluded that moderate to severe infundibular stenosis , in adults , can regress after successful pulmonary valvuloplasty . 
diagnosis of left atrial thrombi in mitral valve disease by coronary arteriography . arteriographic findings of neovascularity and fistula formation between coronary arteries and left atrium have occasionally been described in association with left atrial thrombosis in patients with mitral valve disease . the validity of these coronary arteriographic findings in diagnosis of atrial thrombi has been evaluated in 112 patients with mitral valve disease . comparison was made with surgery . the study furnished these diagnostic values : sensitivity 70 % , specificity 85 % , positive predictive value 72 % . even if this angiographic finding is complementary in diagnosis of atrial thrombosis , its identification during coronary arteriography in patients with mitral valve disease is useful . its detection could improve diagnostic prediction of thrombosis , especially in patients without previous embolic events or where echocardiography failed to reveal thrombi . 
balloon rupture due to lesion morphology during coronary angioplasty . we report a case of coronary angioplasty of a left anterior descending artery lesion that was complicated by the rupture of three successive balloon catheters . each rupture occurred as a pinhole jet of contrast into a diagonal side branch , causing subintimal staining . this case demonstrates that balloon rupture may result from lesion morphology . 
death at cardiac catheterization : coronary artery embolization of calcium debris from ionescu-shiley bioprosthesis . the case described is a death due to embolization of calcium debris from a bioprosthesis , dislodged at cardiac catheterization . as more bioprosthetic valves are implanted , and more of them fail long-term with calcification , such complications of the invasive study of these valves may be expected . 
severe mitral insufficiency post-balloon valvuloplasty : the late changes found in a disrupted mitral valve . the case of a 45-yr-old woman who had balloon valvuloplasty for rheumatic mitral stenosis is presented . an anterior mitral leaflet tear occurred as a complication of the procedure . both partial healing of the anterior mitral leaflet and gradual dilatation of the left atrium occurred which allowed the damaged valve to remain in situ for several months . some of the late changes which occur after such a complicated valvuloplasty are illustrated here , as this patient eventually required surgery and valve excision for definitive repair . 
physical examination and echo doppler study in the assessment of femoral arterial complications following cardiac catheterization . femoral arterial complications following cardiac catheterization have been well recognized . the development of an inguinal mass in these patients can represent a simple hematoma , a pseudoaneurysm , or an arteriovenous fistula . the utility of the physical examination in diagnosing these complications was assessed by using the echo doppler study for comparison . this study shows that any single clinical sign should not be used in isolation , but a constellation of physical findings can suggest the correct diagnosis . 
inflation pressure requirements during coronary angioplasty . to examine the balloon inflation pressures required for successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) , the maximal inflation pressure required for 477 coronary lesions in 200 consecutive patients was determined retrospectively . when graded balloon inflations just sufficient to achieve full expansion were used , the maximal inflation pressure used was less than or equal to 8 atm in 412 stenoses ( 86 % ) and was less than or equal to 10 atm in 463 stenoses ( 97 % ) . successful ptca was achieved in 98 % of lesions with a 3.5 % major procedural complication rate . in a second group of 100 patients studied prospectively , the inflation pressure required to achieve full balloon expansion was less than or equal to 8 atm in 214 of 232 stenoses ( 92 % ) and less than or equal to 10 atm in 228 stenoses ( 98 % ) . thus , ptca of coronary stenoses can be achieved with high success rates and low complication rates when graded inflations to pressures just sufficient to achieve full balloon expansion are performed . most coronary stenoses will respond to pressures less than or equal to 8-10 atm . 
percutaneous popliteal approach for angioplasty of superficial femoral artery occlusions . angioplasty using the percutaneous popliteal approach was utilized in 50 patients ( pts ) to recanalize 59 occluded superficial femoral arteries which had been unsuccessfully canalized by using the antegrade approach because of either a flush origin occlusion or inability to maintain the guide wire in the true lumen . all pts had claudication ; 8 had rest pain ; 3 had non-healing ulcers . the laser probe was used in 17 cases and the rotablator in 3 cases . occlusion length varied between 1 and 40 cm : 7 lesions were less than 10 cm ( group 1 ) ; 9 were between 10 and 20 cm ( group 2 ) ; and 43 were greater than 20 cm ( group 3 ) . an angiographic success was obtained in 48/59 lesions ( 81 % ) : 14/16 ( 87 % ) in groups 1 and 2 and 34/43 ( 79 % ) in group 3 . three pts needed complementary common femoral endarterectomy and one required percutaneous aspiration of a thromboembolus . complications included : arterial perforation and/or dissection ( without clinical sequelae ) in 11 and a popliteal hematoma in 1 pt . one patient with a severely ischemic leg underwent successful emergency vascular surgery , while another limb salvage patient required below-knee amputation . there was no worsening of limb ischemia from any popliteal approach attempt . at discharge , 39 patients ( 78 % ) whose outcome would have been unsuccessful with the traditional antegrade approach were clinically improved after utilizing the popliteal approach to achieve a successful angioplasty procedure . 
correction of subclavian artery stenosis by percutaneous angioplasty . subclavian artery stenosis is an infrequently recognized cause of left-sided chest and arm pain that can mimic the signs and symptoms of angina pectoris . in addition , more proximal subclavian artery stenoses can be associated with cerebrovascular symptoms in the " subclavian steal syndrome . " this article reviews the clinical experience in four patients who presented with different manifestations of subclavian artery stenosis and who were all successfully treated by percutaneous angioplasty . their clinical presentation , angiographic findings , and post-angioplasty results are documented . in conclusion , it is felt that nonsurgical correction of critical subclavian artery stenosis , using current angioplasty techniques , is the preferred method of treatment . 
treatment of ventricular tachycardia induced cardiogenic shock by percoronary chemical ablation . incessant ventricular arrhythmias pose an especially challenging therapeutic dilemma . we describe the successful treatment and follow-up of a patient with refractory ventricular tachycardia-induced cardiogenic shock with percoronary chemical ablation . after endocardial mapping was used to identify the " tachycardia-related " coronary artery , temporary termination of the arrhythmia with balloon occlusion and subselective intracoronary installation of iced saline as previously advocated was unsuccessful . this was probably due to a dual arterial blood supply to the arrhythmogenic focus . however , infusion of 2 cc ethanol ( 99 % ) permanently terminated the arrhythmia . contrary to previous experience , ethanol-induced arrhythmia termination did not result in arterial occlusion , further supporting a direct toxic effect on the myocardium as its mode of action . use of standard angioplasty balloon inflation prevents " backwash " of distally infused ethanol and more generalized cell death . the only complication of this procedure was temporary third-degree av block , requiring permanent pacemaker implantation . 
usefulness of digital angiography in the assessment of left ventricular ejection fraction . with modern digital cardiac systems the image data are digitized on-line and in real-time , allowing the replay and subsequent interpretation and analysis during or directly after the cardiac catheterization procedure . in this study we have evaluated the advantages and limitations of a manual tracing technique for left ventricular digital angiograms on the phillips dci system . thirty-three patients who were catheterized for suspected coronary artery disease were studied . the manual tracings were performed by a senior cardiologist and an experienced function-analyst . it was found that the short - and long-term intraobserver variabilities in the assessment of the global ejection fraction were very small ; short-term mean difference + / - standard deviation ( correlation coefficient ) : 0.5 + / - 2.7 ( r = 0.97 ) global ef % - units ; long term ; 0.7 + / - 2.7 ( r = 0.96 ) ef % - units . the interobserver variabilities ( 5.1 + / - 4.8 ( r = 0.93 ) ef % - units ) were slightly higher than the intraobserver variabilities . a decrease by 25 % in the amount of contrast medium administered did not significantly influence the variabilities in the contour tracings , which would suggest the use of smaller doses . at the average , the cardiologist and the function-analyst required 6 and 11 min of analysis time for a left ventricular study , respectively , emphasizing the need for further developments towards automated contour detection . finally , an excellent correlation was found with a standard off-line cinefilm analysis procedure . thus , it may be concluded that quantitative digital left ventricular angiography based on manual tracing of the outlines performed immediately following the cardiac catheterization ( post-processing ) is feasible as a routine procedure for the assessment of left ventricular function . 
hyperkalaemia during rapid blood transfusion and hypovolaemic cardiac arrest in children . a morbidity and mortality review documented a high occurrence of hyperkalaemia in cardiac arrests associated with rapid blood transfusion , which resulted in further study . in order to stimulate events during rapid blood transfusion and cardiac arrest , the central circulation was modeled as a linear one compartment , and used to stimulate a child who suffered a hypovolaemic cardiac arrest and was resuscitated with rapid blood transfusion ( rbt ) . the simulation suggested that the combination of rbt and a low cardiac output state could be associated with hyperkalaemia , if the potassium concentration in the plasma fraction of the transfused blood was greater than or equal to 10 mmol.l-1 . in an associated clinical study the plasma potassium concentration during cardiac arrest was documented from a retrospective review of 138 cardiac arrests in a paediatric population . patients were divided into two groups . the rbt-group received a rapid blood transfusion during resuscitation . the non-rbt group did not receive blood during resuscitation . during cardiac arrest the plasma [ k ] in the non-rbt group was 5.63 + / - 2.39 mmol.l-1 compared with 8.23 + / - 1.99 mmol.l-1 in the rbt-group ( p less than 0.05 ) . the hyperkalaemia during cardiac arrest in the rbt-group could be explained as a consequence of rbt to a hypovolaemic child with a low cardiac output . 
side effects of nalbuphine while reversing opioid-induced respiratory depression : report of four cases . nalbuphine hydrochloride , an agonist-antagonist opioid , is reported to reverse the respiratory depression of moderate doses of fentanyl ( 20 micrograms.kg-1 ) and still provide good analgesia . we report four patients having abdominal aortic aneurysm repair in which we attempted to reverse the respiratory depression of large doses of fentanyl ( 50-75 micrograms.kg-1 ) with nalbuphine ( 0.3 mg.kg-1 , 0.1 mg.kg-1 or 0.05 mg.kg-1 ) . nalbuphine reversed respiratory depression in all four patients and the respiratory rate increased from 10 to 23 breaths per minute , end-tidal co2 decreased from 7.0 + / - 0.3 per cent to 5.6 + / - 0.7 per cent , and peak inspiratory pressure after 0.1 seconds increased from 4 + / - 1.4 to 13 + / - 2.6 mmhg . however , hypertension , increased heart rate , and significant increase in analogue pain scores accompanied reversal of respiratory depression . agitation , nausea , vomiting , and cardiac dysrhythmias also were observed frequently . we do not recommend the use of nalbuphine to facilitate early extubation of the trachea after large doses of fentanyl for abdominal aortic surgery . 
the prophylactic use of octreotide in a patient with ovarian carcinoid and valvular heart disease . this case report describes the use of octreotide , a long-acting somatostatin analogue , in the management of a patient with an ovarian carcinoid tumour and severe cardiac valvular disease . this patient underwent laparotomy and tumour resection without complication . anaesthesia was induced with midazolam , fentanyl , and vecuronium , and maintained with isoflurane as well as additional fentanyl and vecuronium . however , we feel that it was the use of octreotide that prevented a life-threatening crisis intraoperatively , and recommend its use in patients with carcinoid syndrome undergoing anaesthesia and surgery . 
nonuniform regional deformation of the pericardium during the cardiac cycle in dogs . we hypothesized that local contact forces between the pericardium and the heart cause regional variation in pericardial deformation during the cardiac cycle , reflecting volume changes of the underlying cardiac chambers . to test this , we measured regional pericardial area over the right atrium ( ra ) and right ventricle ( rv ) with orthogonal pairs of sonomicrometers in six open-chest dogs . at a left ventricular end-diastolic pressure of 5 mm hg , rv pericardial area paralleled rv volume , that is , shrinkage during ejection by 10 + / - 8 % and expansion during filling . ra pericardial area was reciprocally related to rv pericardial area , with average expansion during ventricular ejection of 2 + / - 2 % , thus paralleling ra volume during rv ejection . with volume loading , rv pericardial shrinkage during ejection increased to 14 + / - 6 % , but the ra pericardial area change was no longer reciprocal ( 0 + / - 3 % change during rv ejection ) . elimination of contact forces by cardiac tamponade resulted in both marked attenuation of rv pericardial area changes and synchronization of the rv and ra pericardial area pattern ; that is , both shrank during rv ejection . in two additional dogs , measurement of pericardial area over left ventricle and atrium showed similar results . we conclude that dynamic pericardial contact forces cause regional variation in pericardial deformation , which reflects volume changes of the underlying chambers . these findings imply that the influence of the pericardium on filling and ejection may be more complex than previously recognized , varying both by chamber and dynamically over the course of the cardiac cycle . 
biphasic effects of doxorubicin on the calcium release channel from sarcoplasmic reticulum of cardiac muscle . to define the mechanism of doxorubicin cardiotoxicity , the effects of doxorubicin and caffeine were examined on calcium release channels from cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum . we found that calcium release from cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles was induced by both compounds . when sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles were incorporated into planar lipid bilayers , calcium-permeable channels were observed . addition of caffeine ( 2.5-10 mm ) increased channel open probability from less than 0.1 % to 40 % , and this effect persisted for a mean of 44 minutes . in contrast , doxorubicin ( 2.5-10 microm ) had a biphasic effect ; initially , doxorubicin activated the channel , whereas after a mean of 8 minutes , the channel became irreversibly inhibited . although the degree of channel activation by doxorubicin was concentration dependent , the time needed to inactivate the channel was concentration independent . pretreatment with dithiothreitol ( 0.2 mm ) prevented doxorubicin-induced channel inactivation , and channel activity persisted for an average of 58 minutes . dithiothreitol alone did not alter channel open probability . our results support the hypotheses that 1 ) the integrity of sulfhydryl groups is important for some aspects of calcium release channel function and 2 ) activation and inactivation of the channel are separable processes . the biphasic effect of doxorubicin on channel function may also correspond to the clinically observed adverse effects of doxorubicin , a widely used chemotherapeutic agent that , after prolonged usage , causes a dilated cardiomyopathy . 
enhanced alpha 1-adrenergic responsiveness in cardiomyopathic hamster cardiac myocytes . relation to the expression of pertussis toxin-sensitive g protein and alpha 1-adrenergic receptors . the pathogenesis of the myopathy occurring in the heart of the cardiomyopathic strain of the syrian hamster is not well understood but is believed to be associated with abnormal calcium handling by myopathic cells . the purpose of this study was to determine whether the cardiomyopathy occurring in strain bio 14.6 animals is associated with an enhanced alpha 1-adrenergic receptor-mediated rise in cytosolic calcium , whether a pertussis toxin-sensitive g protein is involved in coupling the alpha 1-adrenergic receptor to changes in intracellular calcium and whether enhanced alpha 1 responsiveness is associated with an increase in the level of expression of the alpha 1-adrenergic receptor or in the pertussis toxin-sensitive g protein or proteins . to test the hypothesis that the cardiomyopathic state is associated with a greater alpha 1-receptor-mediated rise in cytosolic calcium , we studied the effect of phenylephrine ( in the presence of propranolol ) on time-averaged cytosolic calcium concentration ( [ ca2 + ] i ) in isolated cardiac myocytes from cardiomyopathic and age-matched control hamsters . phenylephrine caused a greater increase both in time-averaged [ ca2 + ] i ( an increase of 48 + / - 8 % versus 12 + / - 3 % , p less than 0.01 ) and in contractility ( +181 + / - 22 % versus +35 + / - 9 % , p less than 0.01 ) in cardiomyopathic than in normal cardiac myocytes . exposure to pertussis toxin ( 200 ng/ml for 3 hours ) attenuated the alpha 1-adrenergic receptor-mediated increase in contractility and time-averaged [ ca2 + ] i in both cardiomyopathic and normal cells . the level of pertussis toxin-sensitive g protein , as determined by pertussis toxin-mediated [ 32p ] adp-ribosylation , was 1.6-fold higher in cardiomyopathic versus normal hamster hearts . the density of alpha 1-adrenergic receptors , as measured by the antagonist radioligand [ 3h ] prazosin and the affinity of the receptor for agonist and antagonist were similar in myopathic and normal heart membranes . thus , in cardiac myocytes from hamsters , the alpha 1-adrenergic receptor-mediated effects on [ ca2 + ] i and contractility appear to be mediated by a pertussis toxin-sensitive g protein or proteins . in myocytes from cardiomyopathic hamsters , these alpha 1-adrenergic effects were increased in magnitude , as was the level of pertussis toxin-sensitive g protein , but there was no measurable alteration in the density or ligand binding properties of alpha 1-adrenergic receptors . 
evidence for decreased coronary flow reserve in viable postischemic myocardium . to try to unravel the complexity and heterogeneity of the " no-reflow " phenomenon and its underlying mechanisms , we studied tissue perfusion in reperfused heart muscle by using tracer microspheres in an anesthetized dog model of 90-minute coronary occlusion followed by reperfusion for 2 1/2 hours , 24 hours , or 1 week . regional myocardial blood flow was determined both in basal flow conditions and during reactive hyperemia . the effect of intracoronary adenosine administration was examined , and the ultrastructure of postischemic myocardium was analyzed . in viable reperfused tissue ( as delineated by triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining ) , reflow in basal conditions is unimpaired . coronary flow reserve ( as approximated by peak reactive hyperemic flow ) is intact at the start of reperfusion , decreases by more than half after 2 1/2 hours , and recovers completely within 1 week . this impairment of coronary reserve can be relieved by intracoronary adenosine administration . on ultrastructural examination , the capillaries are patent . on the other hand , in irreversibly damaged myocardium , both the basal reflow impairment and the decrease in coronary flow reserve are severe and permanent . coronary flow reserve is already decreased at the start of reperfusion , and the pharmacological intervention has no beneficial effect . ultrastructurally , extracellular and intracellular edema invariably are present , whereas the vascular endothelium is damaged and the capillaries are packed with red blood cells . we conclude that the no-reflow phenomenon ( i.e. , mechanical obstruction to blood flow ) is limited to infarcted tissue . in viable myocardium , however , coronary flow reserve is transiently diminished , probably because of washout and subsequent insufficient availability of the chemical mediator adenosine after breakdown and slow recovery of the precursor atp pool . 
reperfusion and readmission of oxygen . pathophysiological relevance of oxygen-derived free radicals to arrhythmogenesis . we have examined the pathophysiological role of readmission of oxygen ( and hence production of oxygen-derived free radicals ) in the initiation of reperfusion-induced arrhythmias by separating , on a temporal basis , readmission flow from readmission of oxygen . isolated rat hearts ( n = 12/group ) were subjected to 10 minutes of regional ischemia and 10 minutes of reperfusion . in controls reperfused with oxygenated solution ( po2 greater than 600 mm hg ) , 92 % of hearts developed ventricular fibrillation ( vf ) during the first 20 seconds of reperfusion , whereas in hearts reperfused with hypoxic solution ( po2 9.3-12 .2 mm hg ) , the incidence of vf was only 17 % ( p less than 0.05 ) . subsequent readmission of control solution ( po2 greater than 600 mm hg ) to the latter group led , within 20 seconds , to the appearance of vf in seven of the 10 hearts ( 70 % ) that had not previously fibrillated . to examine whether hypoxic reperfusion had prevented vf or merely delayed its onset , the studies were repeated in separate groups of hearts with the duration of hypoxic reperfusion extended to 5 minutes . in addition , to examine the partial pressure dependence of the relation , the po2 in the reperfusion solution was set at one of five different levels : greater than 600 , 150-192 .7 , 69-85 .6 , 9.2-14 .8 , or 0.0 mm hg . it was found that hypoxia merely delayed vf onset by 20-40 seconds and did not significantly reduce the incidence of vf , which was 83 % , 92 % , 67 % , 58 % , and 58 % , respectively . this indicated that readmission of oxygen is unnecessary for the initiation of vf during reperfusion . the hearts that reverted to sinus rhythm during the ensuing 5 minutes ( n = 8 , 4 , 5 , 9 , and 8 , respectively ) were used to assess the arrhythmogenic consequences of readmission of oxygen . when control solution ( po2 greater than 600 mm hg ) was readmitted , new episodes of vf were elicited within 20 seconds in a manner that was inversely proportional to the preceding po2 ( p less than 0.05 ) , the incidence of new episodes of vf being 0 % , 0 % , 40 % , 67 % , and 86 % , respectively . the arrhythmogenic effect of readmission of oxygen was not the result of a sudden increase in heart rate , because a similar arrhythmogenic effect of readmission of oxygen was seen in separate groups of hearts that were paced ( 350 beats/min ) throughout hypoxia and readmission of oxygen . in conclusion , readmission of flow and readmission of oxygen are independent determinants of reperfusion-induced arrhythmias . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
time course of cellular enzyme release in dog heart injury . the transport time of enzyme from heart to plasma was studied in two experimental models . first , the enzyme alanine aminotransferase was slowly infused into the left ventricular wall in open-chest dogs . the half-life for the washout of alanine aminotransferase activity into plasma was 20 + / - 4 minutes ( mean + / - sem , n = 8 ) and was not different in ischemic and normally perfused tissue . from measurements of arteriovenous differences in alanine aminotransferase activity and left ventricular blood flow , it was concluded that 77 + / - 14 % of total enzyme washout from ischemic tissue occurred by direct entry into the bloodstream . the corresponding value for the vascular permeability-surface area product was 264 + / - 55 ml.kg-1 . hr-1 . for a second model , we studied myocardial enzyme release into plasma after abrupt heart injury induced by 10 minutes of calcium-free coronary perfusion followed by reintroduction of calcium ( calcium-paradox mechanism ) . the half-life for the release into plasma was 1.9 + / - 0.2 hours ( mean + / - sem , n = 6 ) and was again not influenced by sustained ischemia . slower washout , as observed for this second model , is consistent with increased interstitial protein space and corresponds to a permeability -- surface area product between 135 and 285 ml.kg-1 . hr-1 . these results were used to calculate the time course of cellular enzyme leakage from the rate of enzyme release into plasma in various forms of heart injury . significant shifts between the time curves of evolving cellular injury and enzyme release into plasma are observed after 2 hours of ischemia followed by coronary reperfusion , but not after permanent ischemia . 
effects of adenosine on human coronary arterial circulation adenosine is a potent vasodilator used extensively to study the coronary circulation of animals . its use in humans , however , has been hampered by lack of knowledge about its effects on the human coronary circulation and by concern about its safety . we investigated in humans the effects of adenosine , administered by intracoronary bolus ( 2-16 micrograms ) , intracoronary infusion ( 10-240 micrograms/min ) , or intravenous infusion ( 35-140 micrograms/kg/min ) on coronary and systemic hemodynamics and the electrocardiogram . coronary blood flow velocity ( cbfv ) was measured with a 3f coronary doppler catheter . the maximal cbfv was determined with intracoronary papaverine ( 4.5 + / - 0.2 . resting cbfv ) . in normal left coronary arteries ( n = 20 ) , 16-micrograms boluses of adenosine caused coronary hyperemia similar to that caused by papaverine ( 4.6 + / - 0.7 . resting cbfv ) . in the right coronary artery ( n = 5 ) , 12-micrograms boluses caused maximal hyperemia ( 4.4 + / - 1.0 . resting cbfv ) . intracoronary boluses caused a small , brief decrease in arterial pressure ( similar to that caused by papaverine ) and no changes in heart rate or in the electrocardiogram . the duration of hyperemia was much shorter after adenosine than after papaverine administration . intracoronary infusions of 80 micrograms/min or more into the left coronary artery ( n = 6 ) also caused maximal hyperemia ( 4.4 + / - 0.1 . resting cbfv ) , and doses up to 240 micrograms/min caused a minimal decrease in arterial pressure ( -6 + / - 2 mm hg ) and no significant change in heart rate or in electrocardiographic variables . intravenous infusions in normal patients ( n = 25 ) at 140 micrograms/kg/min caused coronary vasodilation similar to that caused by papaverine in 84 % of patients ( 4.4 + / - 0.9 . resting cbfv ) . at submaximal infusion rates , however , cbfv often fluctuated widely . during the 140-micrograms/kg/min infusion , arterial pressure decreased 6 + / - 7 mm hg , and heart rate increased 24 + / - 14 beats/min . one patient developed 1 cycle of 2:1 atrioventricular block , but otherwise , the electrocardiogram did not change . in eight patients with microvascular vasodilator dysfunction ( delta cbfv , less than 3.5 peak/resting velocity after a maximally vasodilating dose of intracoronary papaverine ) , the dose-response characteristics to intracoronary boluses and intravenous infusions of adenosine were similar to those found in normal patients . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
sex differences in control of cutaneous blood flow . women are far more likely than men to suffer from raynaud 's disease . the purpose of this study was to determine whether there are gender differences in local or central control of cutaneous blood flow that could account for the increased incidence of raynaud 's disease in women . to assess cutaneous blood flow , hand blood flow ( hbf ) , finger blood flow ( fbf ) , or skin perfusion ( sp ) was measured by fluid plethysmography , mercury strain-gauge plethysmography , or laser doppler spectroscopy , respectively , in 47 volunteers . basal hbf in men exceeded that of women ( 12.1 + / - 2.0 versus 6.2 + / - 1.5 ml/100 ml/min ) . likewise , fbf in men surpassed that of women ( 19.5 + / - 4.1 versus 7.7 + / - 1.8 ml/100 ml/min ) . similarly , sp in men was greater than that of women ( 270 + / - 42 versus 81 + / - 16 perfusion units ) . however , after total body warming ( to induce a thermal sympatholysis ) , hbf in women exceeded that of men , suggesting that the lower basal hbf in women was due to increased sympathetic outflow to the extremities . mental stress and deep inspiration reduced hbf and sp in men . paradoxically , both of these maneuvers increased hbf and sp in women . to determine whether these paradoxical responses in women were due to the women 's elevated basal sympathetic tone , these experiments were repeated after total body cooling in men to increase sympathetic tone and after total body warming in women to reduce sympathetic tone . total body cooling reduced hbf and sp in men . under these conditions , mental stress and deep inspiration induced vasodilation . in women , total body warming for 10 minutes increased hbf . 
mortality after 10 1/2 years for hypertensive participants in the multiple risk factor intervention trial the multiple risk factor intervention trial ( mrfit ) is a randomized primary prevention trial that tested the effect of a multifactor intervention program on coronary heart disease ( chd ) mortality in 12,866 high-risk men aged 35-57 years . men were randomly assigned to either a special intervention ( si ) program , which consisted of dietary advice for lowering blood cholesterol levels , counseling aimed at cessation for cigarette smokers , and stepped-care treatment for hypertension for those with elevated blood pressure , or to their usual sources of health care within the community ( uc ) . among the 12,866 randomized men , 8,012 ( 62 % ) were hypertensive at baseline . for this subgroup , mortality rates with 10.5 years of follow-up were lower for the si than for the uc group by 15 % ( p = 0.19 ) for chd and 11 % ( p = 0.13 ) for all causes . these results reflected more favorable outcomes for si compared with uc hypertensive men during the 3.8 posttrial years ( march 1982 through december 1985 ) than during the preceding 6-8 years ( through february 1982 ) . during the posttrial years , death rates were lower for si than for uc men by 26 % ( p = 0.09 ) for chd and 23 % ( p = 0.02 ) for all causes . for those with diastolic blood pressure equal to or more than 100 mm hg , this posttrial trend was a continuation of a trend during the trial ; therefore , with 10.5 years of follow-up , death rates were markedly lower for si than for uc by 36 % ( p = 0.07 ) for chd and 50 % ( p = 0.0001 ) for all causes . similarly , for those without baseline resting electrocardiographic abnormalities , the favorable posttrial outcome for the si group was a continuation of a trend during the trial . in contrast , for those with baseline diastolic blood pressure of 90-99 mm hg and for those with baseline resting electrocardiographic abnormalities , the favorable posttrial mortality findings for the si group were a reversal of unfavorable trends recorded during the trial . two factors appear to have contributed to this more favorable mortality trend for the si group : 1 ) a change in the diuretic treatment protocol for si men about 5 years after randomization , which involved replacement of hydrochlorothiazide with chlorthalidone at a daily maximum dose of 50 mg ; and 2 ) a favorable effect of intervention on nonfatal cardiovascular events during the trial years . in addition , delay until the full impact of beneficial effects on mortality end points from smoking cessation and cholesterol lowering could have contributed . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
ten-year follow-up of survival and myocardial infarction in the randomized coronary artery surgery study the coronary artery surgery study ( cass ) randomized 780 patients to an initial strategy of coronary surgery or medical therapy . of medically randomized patients , 6 % had surgery within 6 months and a total of 40 % had surgery by 10 years . at 10 years , there was no difference in cumulative survival ( medical , 79 % vs. surgical , 82 % ; ns ) and no difference in percentage free of death and nonfatal myocardial infarction ( medical , 69 % vs. surgical , 66 % ; ns ) . patients with an ejection fraction of less than 0.50 exhibited a better survival with initial surgery treatment ( medical , 61 % vs. surgical , 79 % ; p = 0.01 ) . conversely , patients with an ejection fraction greater than or equal to 0.50 exhibited a higher proportion free of death and myocardial infarction with initial medical therapy ( medical , 75 % vs. surgical , 68 % ; p = 0.04 ) although long-term survival remained unaffected ( medical , 84 % vs. surgical , 83 % ; p = 0.75 ) . there were no significant differences either in survival and freedom from nonfatal myocardial infarction , whether stratified on presence of heart failure , age , hypertension , or number of vessels diseased . thus , 10-year follow-up results confirm earlier reports from cass that patients with left ventricular dysfunction exhibit long-term benefit from an initial strategy of surgical treatment . patients with mild stable angina and normal left ventricular function randomized to initial medical treatment ( with an option for later surgery if symptoms progress ) have survival equivalent to those patients randomized to initial surgery . 
ten-year follow-up of quality of life in patients randomized to receive medical therapy or coronary artery bypass graft surgery . the coronary artery surgery study ( cass ) quality of life indexes were assessed in 780 patients 10 years after randomization to medical therapy ( n = 390 ) or coronary artery bypass graft surgery ( n = 390 ) in the coronary artery surgery study . at 10 years , mortality was 21.8 % in the medical group and 19.2 % in the surgical group ( p = ns ) , and 144 ( 37 % ) of the medical group had undergone surgery because of increasing chest pain . at study entry , 22 % of medical and surgical patients were angina free ; at 1 and 5 years after entry , the frequency of asymptomatic patients was 66 % and 63 % in the surgical group and 30 % and 38 % in the medical group . however , by 10 years after entry , the proportion of patients free of angina had fallen to 47 % in the surgical group and to 42 % in the medical group . activity limitation and use of beta-blockers and long-acting nitrates were less in the surgical than the medical group at 1 and 5 years after entry but little different from the medical group at 10 years after entry . throughout follow-up , recreational status , employment status , frequency of heart failure , use of other medications , and hospitalization frequency were similar between the two groups . thus , indexes of quality of life such as angina relief , increased activity , and reduction in use of antianginal medications initially appear superior in patients with stable manifestations of ischemic heart disease assigned to surgery , but by 10 years after entry , these advantages are much less apparent . although the observed similarities of the medically and surgically assigned groups at 10 years reflect return of symptoms in the surgical group to some extent , a more important explanation is the performance of late surgery in a large proportion of the medically assigned patients , rendering them asymptomatic . 
blood pressure level , trend , and variability in dunedin children . an 8-year study of a single birth cohort in a birth cohort of children in the dunedin multidisciplinary health and development study in new zealand , resting blood pressures were recorded biennially five times from age 7 to 15 years . using previously described methods , we examined the level , trend , and variability of blood pressures in those children with at least three readings . the level , trend , and variability of height , weight , and body mass index were compared among six separate groups of children . two groups were categorized on the basis of high systolic pressure levels , one with low variability and the other with high variability , which was thought to resemble adult labile hypertension . two additional groups were categorized on the basis of increasing and decreasing blood pressure trends ; the fifth group had consistently low blood pressures , and the sixth group consisted of the remaining children . there were significant differences among the groups for the level of all the physical measurements and for the trend of body mass index . no significant differences were found among the groups for gender or socioeconomic status . a parental history of high blood pressure , stroke , or heart attack was significantly more common in the first two groups . 
baffle fenestration with subsequent transcatheter closure . modification of the fontan operation for patients at increased risk ventricular dysfunction , elevated pulmonary vascular resistance , and residual distal pulmonary artery distortion contribute to early mortality after a fontan operation ; they may be transient or reversible . a baffle fenestration , allowing right-to-left shunting , maintains cardiac output and limits right atrial pressure . a baffle fenestration was surgically created at the time of a modified fontan repair in 20 consecutive patients . risk factors included pulmonary artery pressure of 18 mm hg or more , end-diastolic pressure of 12 mm hg or more , valvar regurgitation , pulmonary artery distortion , pulmonary vascular resistance of 2 woods ' units or more , ventricular outflow obstruction , and complex anatomy . nineteen of 20 patients survived . after the operation , mean arterial oxygen saturation was 86 % , mean right atrial pressure was 15 mm hg , and mean duration of pleural effusions was 6 days . twelve of 19 survivors tolerated early test occlusion and had permanent transcatheter umbrella closure . four patients failed early test occlusion , with a significant decrease in venous o2 saturation and a rise in central venous pressure , due to ventricular dysfunction , pulmonary artery distortion , or aortopulmonary collaterals . three of four had successful late closure of the fenestration after correction of these abnormalities . 
late potentials and inducible ventricular tachycardia in surgically repaired congenital heart disease . we compared signal-averaged electrocardiography with invasive electrophysiological study in patients after surgical repair of congenital heart disease to determine if potentially useful correlations exist between the two methods for assessment of risk for ventricular tachycardia . thirty-one patients ( age , 1-49 years ; mean , 10.6 years ) with congenital heart disease repaired with right ventriculotomy or postrepair right bundle branch block ( 77 % postoperative tetralogy of fallot ) who had electrophysiological study were studied with signal-averaged electrocardiography . patients were classified by electrophysiological study results as having no inducible ventricular tachycardia , nonsustained ventricular tachycardia , or sustained ventricular tachycardia . signal-averaged electrocardiograms were examined for the duration of low-amplitude ( less than or equal to 40 microv ) qrs signal , duration of total qrs , and root-mean-square voltage of the terminal 40 msec of the qrs . low-amplitude terminal root-mean-square voltage of 100 microv or less had 91 % sensitivity and 70 % specificity for ventricular tachycardia inducible by electrophysiological study . similar sensitivity but less specificity were seen using the criterion of 20 msec or more total low-amplitude qrs signal ( initial plus terminal ) or using total qrs duration of 128 msec or more . there was a weaker association between terminal low-amplitude qrs signal of 15 msec or more and inducible ventricular tachycardia . 
iliofemoral arterial complications of balloon angioplasty for systemic obstructions in infants and children the medical and radiological records of 64 consecutive infants and children who underwent transfemoral balloon dilation of the aorta or aortic valve were reviewed to determine the incidence , nature , and post-treatment outcome of acute iliofemoral complications . balloon dilation angioplasty or balloon valvotomy was performed with 8f and 9f catheters without an arterial sheath . patients ranged in age from 5 days to 15.4 years ( mean , 6.4 years ) . of 64 patients , 29 ( 45.3 % ) had an acute iliofemoral complication , including thrombosis ( 18 of 64 ) , complete disruption ( five of 64 ) , incomplete disruption ( three of 64 ) , and arterial tear ( three of 64 ) . the arterial pathology was confirmed in 23 of 29 patients by one or a combination of surgical exploration and repair ( 18 of 29 ) , angiography ( six of 29 ) , and magnetic resonance imaging ( three of 29 ) . of eight patients , three with arterial disruption had acute hypotension requiring transfusion and immediate surgery ; the other five had absent pedal pulses after the procedure . of these five , three developed bleeding during thrombolytic therapy and underwent surgical exploration , and two were diagnosed by angiography after ineffective thrombolytic therapy . angiography in three patients with iliac artery avulsion showed tapered occlusion in two and an aneurysm in one . in patients with iliofemoral thrombosis , angiography showed occlusion from the puncture site to the origin of the external iliac artery . eleven patients ( 17 % of the entire group and 38 % of the group with acute iliofemoral complications ) had reduced or absent pedal pulses at the time of discharge . a significant correlation was found between increased incidence of iliofemoral thrombosis and disruption ( as well as abnormal pedal pulses at hospital discharge ) and low patient weight . 
prognostic value of radionuclide angiography in medically treated patients with coronary artery disease . a comparison with clinical and catheterization variables . to evaluate the usefulness of multiple measures from rest and exercise radionuclide angiography ( rna ) in predicting cardiovascular death and cardiovascular events ( death or nonfatal myocardial infarction ) and to assess the prognostic usefulness of the rna relative to clinical and catheterization data , we studied 571 stable patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease who had upright rest/exercise first-pass rna within 3 months of catheterization and were medically treated . with a median follow-up of 5.4 years , 90 patients have died from cardiovascular causes , and 147 patients have either died or suffered a nonfatal myocardial infarction . using the cox regression model and a preselected group of rna variables , the most important rna predictor of mortality was exercise ejection fraction ( chi 2 = 81 , p less than 0.00001 ) . neither rest ejection fraction nor the change in ejection fraction from rest to exercise contributed additional predictive information . two other rna study variables , the change in heart rate from rest to exercise and rest end-diastolic volume index , did contribute additional prognostic information to the exercise ejection fraction ( chi 2 = 23 , p less than 0.0001 ) . compared with noninvasive clinical data ( history , physical examination , electrocardiogram , and chest radiograph ) , rna variables were considerably more predictive of mortality ( chi 2 = 71 [ clinical variables ] versus chi 2 = 104 [ rna ] ) . remarkably , the strength of the relation of rna variables with mortality was equivalent to that of the set of catheterization variables previously demonstrated in our large angiographic population to be prognostically important ( chi 2 = 104 [ rna ] versus chi 2 = 102 [ catheterization variables ] ) . the rna contained 84 % of the information provided by clinical and catheterization descriptors combined . furthermore , the rna contributed significant additional prognostic information to the clinical and catheterization data ( chi 2 = 13.6 , p = 0.0035 ) . for cardiovascular events , the relative prognostic usefulness of the rna was similar , although relations with this outcome were generally weaker . descriptors from the rest/exercise rna exhibit a powerful relation with long-term outcomes and can be useful in defining risk , even when clinical and catheterization data are available . 
prognostic value of electrophysiology testing in asymptomatic patients with wolff-parkinson-white pattern [ published erratum appears in circulation 1991 mar ; 83 ( 3 ) :1124 ] the prognostic value of electrophysiology testing was studied in 75 asymptomatic patients with the wolff-parkinson-white electrocardiographic pattern . all patients underwent electrophysiology testing at entry to the study and were followed up annually for a total of 348 patient-years ( median , 4.3 years ) . there were 44 male and 31 female patients , and age at enrollment ranged from 7 to 77 years ( mean , 34 + / - 14 years ) . the median effective refractory period of the accessory pathway was 293 msec ( interquartile range , 280-310 msec ) , and the median shortest rr interval between preexcited beats during atrial fibrillation ( srr ) [ corrected ] was 274 msec ( 240-320 msec ) . twenty-three patients had an srr of 250 msec or less and eight patients had a median shortest srr interval of 200 msec or less . twelve patients had inducible sustained reciprocating tachycardia , 10 patients had inducible nonsustained reciprocating tachycardia , and 23 patients had inducible sustained atrial fibrillation . twenty patients ( 27 % ) lacked retrograde conduction over the accessory pathway . no patient died suddenly during a median follow-up of 4.3 years . six patients ( 8 % ) became symptomatic with documented supraventricular tachycardia , of whom two underwent operative ablation of their accessory pathways . no patient with absent retrograde accessory pathway conduction during the electrophysiology study became symptomatic . inducible sustained or nonsustained reciprocating tachycardia at electrophysiology study did not predict the development of subsequent symptomatic supraventricular tachycardia . nine patients lost preexcitation during follow-up . age at enrollment ( relative risk/decade , 1.4 ; 95 % confidence interval , 1.0-1 .8 ) and anterograde accessory pathway refractory period ( relative risk , 1.06 / 10 msec ; 95 % confidence interval , 1.0-1 .12 ) were independent predictors of loss of preexcitation . 
hormones regulating cardiovascular function in patients with severe congestive heart failure and their relation to mortality . consensus trial study group . there is a varying hormonal activation in heart failure . to be able to evaluate this activation and relate it to prognosis , we took blood samples at baseline and after 6 weeks from 239 patients with severe heart failure ( all in new york heart association class iv ) randomized to additional treatment with enalapril or placebo . in this study ( consensus ) , which has previously been reported , there was a significant reduction in mortality among patients treated with enalapril . the present data show in the placebo group a significant positive relation between mortality and levels of angiotensin ii ( p less than 0.05 ) , aldosterone ( p = 0.003 ) , noradrenaline ( p less than 0.001 ) , adrenaline ( p = 0.001 ) , and atrial natriuretic factor ( p = 0.003 ) . a similar relation was not observed among the patients treated with enalapril . significant reductions in mortality in the groups of patients treated with enalapril were consistently found among patients with baseline hormone levels above median values . there were significant reductions in hormone levels from baseline to 6 weeks in the group of patients treated with enalapril for all hormones except adrenaline . there were no correlations between these changes in hormone levels . summarily , there is a pronounced but variable neurohormonal activation in heart failure even in patients with similar clinical findings . this activation is reduced by enalapril therapy . the results suggest that the effect of enalapril on mortality is related to hormonal activation in general and the renin-angiotensin system in particular . 
excretion of thromboxane a2 and prostacyclin metabolites before and after exercise testing in patients with and without signs of ischemic heart disease . we addressed the hypothesis that platelets are not activated in association with effort-induced myocardial ischemia in stable coronary disease . seventy-two patients undergoing a diagnostic bicycle exercise test were stratified according to the development of chest pain ( yes/no , 33/39 ) and of exercise-induced st-segment depression of at least 200 microv in the electrocardiogram ( yes/no , 12/60 ) . noninvasive indexes of platelet activation and of platelet/vessel wall interaction ( urinary excretion of the 2,3-dinor-metabolites of thromboxane a2 [ tx-m ] and prostacyclin [ pgi-m ] , respectively ) were analyzed in samples collected in the basal state and after the test . basal tx-m and pgi-m did not differ in patients with ( 236 + / - 35 and 131 + / - 22 pg/mg creatinine , respectively ) and without ( 185 + / - 16 and 101 + / - 13 pg/mg creatinine , respectively ) chest pain , or in those with ( 178 + / - 45 and 162 + / - 41 pg/mg , respectively ) and without ( 216 + / - 22 and 104 + / - 11 pg/mg , respectively ) st-segment depression during the test . patients without chest pain or without st-segment depression moderately increased ( p less than 0.05 ) their urinary tx-m ( by 21 % and 13 % , respectively ) and pgi-m ( by 28 % and 23 % , respectively ) after exercise . no significant increases were observed in those developing chest pain or st depression during exercise . these data indicate that effort-induced myocardial ischemia is not associated with an increase in platelet activation or platelet/vessel wall interaction in patients with stable coronary disease . 
thromboxane receptor blockade prevents pulmonary hypertension induced by heparin-protamine reactions in awake sheep we used competitive thromboxane a2-prostaglandin endoperoxide receptor blockade ( sq 30,741 ) as a probe to evaluate the role of thromboxane in ovine pulmonary vasoconstriction associated with protamine reversal of heparin anticoagulation . control heparin-protamine reactions induced rapid release of thromboxane into arterial plasma ( more than 1 ng/ml plasma ) , a 2.5-fold increase of pulmonary artery pressure , a 20 % decrease of pao2 , and a 30 % reduction in arterial white blood cell concentration . after giving sq 30,741 despite similar thromboxane release into arterial plasma after heparin-protamine challenge , acute pulmonary hypertension was significantly reduced when 94 % of pulmonary vascular smooth muscle thromboxane receptors were occupied with sq 30,741 ( p less than 0.01 at 1 minute after protamine versus control heparin-protamine reaction ) and was completely abolished by a 10 mg/kg i.v. bolus ( p less than 0.0001 at 1 minute after protamine versus control ) . peripheral leukopenia was not affected by sq 30,741 prophylaxis , but hypoxemia was prevented . we conclude that thromboxane causes pulmonary vasoconstriction in ovine heparin-protamine-induced pulmonary hypertension . pulmonary vasoconstriction and hypoxemia can be completely prevented by thromboxane receptor blockade . 
effect of long-term exercise on regional myocardial function and coronary collateral development after gradual coronary artery occlusion in pigs . the effect of myocardial ischemia , induced by long-term exercise , on regional myocardial function and coronary collateral development was examined in pigs after gradual occlusion of the left circumflex coronary artery ( lcx ) with an ameroid occluder . thirty days after surgery , regional myocardial function and blood flow were assessed during exercise in 22 pigs separated into exercise ( n = 12 ) and sedentary groups ( n = 10 ) . the exercise group trained on a treadmill for 25 + / - 1 days , 30-50 min/day , at heart rates of 210-220 beats/min . after 5 weeks , another exercise test was performed . in the exercise group , after training , we observed an improvement in systolic wall thickening , expressed as a percentage of rest , in the collateral-dependent lcx region from 64 + / - 8 % to 87 + / - 6 % ( p less than 0.01 ) at moderate exercise levels ( 220 beats/min ) and from 45 + / - 7 % to 73 + / - 7 % ( p less than 0.01 ) at severe exercise levels ( 265 beats/min ) . transmural myocardial blood flow in the lcx region expressed as a ratio of flow in the nonoccluded region of the left ventricle also increased significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) during severe exercise after 5 weeks . the sedentary group showed an improvement in systolic wall thickening in the lcx region during moderate exercise compared with the initial exercise test ( p less than 0.05 ) but no significant change in systolic wall thickening or myocardial blood flow ratios during severe exercise after 5 weeks . we conclude that long-term exercise after gradual lcx coronary artery occlusion in pigs improves myocardial function and coronary collateral reserve in collateral-dependent myocardium during exercise . 
effect of tachycardia on regional function and transmural myocardial perfusion during graded coronary pressure reduction in conscious dogs the purpose of the present study was to examine subendocardial flow and function during graded coronary pressure reduction to determine the effect of tachycardia on the lower autoregulatory pressure limit ( critical coronary pressure ) in unanesthetized dogs . during atrial pacing at a rate of 200 beats/min , subendocardial flow measured by radioactive microspheres averaged 1.55 + / - 0.34 ml/min/g and remained unchanged as pressure was reduced over the autoregulatory plateau from 84 + / - 10 to 59 + / - 7 mm hg . further reductions in coronary pressure to below a critical coronary pressure of approximately 60 mm hg were associated with concomitant reductions in subendocardial flow and the endocardial-epicardial flow ratio during tachycardia . although regional function remained constant over the autoregulatory plateau , there was a rightward shift of the coronary pressure-function relation during ischemia in response to a steady-state increase in rate from 100 to 200 beats/min . reductions in regional wall thickening began when coronary pressures reached 38 + / - 7 mm hg at a heart rate of 100 beats/min and 61 + / - 6 mm hg at a heart rate of 200 beats/min ( p less than 0.005 ) . similar critical coronary pressure values were obtained for subendocardial segment shortening . relations between subendocardial flow and myocardial function measured by both transmural wall thickening and subendocardial segment shortening were linear during pacing at a heart rate of 200 beats/min with relative reductions in wall thickening related to reductions in subendocardial flow on a nearly one-to-one basis . the results of this study demonstrate that there is a shift in the lower limit of subendocardial autoregulation during tachycardia as manifest by the onset of subendocardial ischemia at a higher distal coronary artery pressure . the shift in critical coronary pressure relates to an increase in resting flow requirements due to increased demand and diminished subendocardial vasodilator reserve at any given coronary pressure secondary to a reduction in the time available for diastolic subendocardial perfusion during tachycardia . 
optimizing the exercise test for pharmacological investigations exercise trials in cardiology are often hindered by inconsistent approaches to exercise testing . these inconsistencies include the choice of exercise protocol , exercise end points , points of analysis , and absence or misuse of gas exchange data . gas exchange techniques greatly enhance the accuracy with which cardiopulmonary function is assessed by exercise . commonly used protocols are not always appropriate for all patients or all studies . both cardiovascular disease and the exercise protocol can have an important impact on the relation between changes in work rate and oxygen uptake . ramp protocols appear to offer the greatest promise for assessing cardiopulmonary function . analyzing hemodynamic and gas exchange responses at several points submaximally , in addition to those at peak exercise , can add important information concerning the efficacy of a drug . a great deal of confusion continues to hinder the application of the gas exchange anaerobic threshold , and many of the commonly used testing end points are not reliable . 
left ventricular ejection fraction may not be useful as an end point of thrombolytic therapy comparative trials . in the era of comparative and adjunctive trials in reperfusion therapy , the need to develop alternative end points for mortality reduction is clear . left ventricular ejection fraction , which has been commonly used as a surrogate , is problematic due to missing values , technically inadequate studies , and lack of correlation with mortality results in controlled reperfusion trials performed to date . in this paper , we present a composite clinical end point that includes , in order , severity of adverse outcome death , hemorrhagic stroke , nonhemorrhagic stroke , poor ejection fraction ( less than 30 % ) , reinfarction , heart failure , and pulmonary edema . such a composite index may be useful to detect true therapeutic benefit in reperfusion trials without necessitating greater than 20-30 ,000 patient enrollment . 
splenic septic emboli in endocarditis . the significance of septic emboli to the spleen is inferred by the frequency of septic emboli in general seen in patients with left-sided infective endocarditis who are referred for valve replacement . to determine the proper management of splenic infarcts and abscess due to septic emboli , we retrospectively reviewed the records of 108 patients with left-sided endocarditis who underwent valvular surgery at the university of illinois hospital from 1980 through 1988 . intravenous drug abuse was the etiology in 68 % ( n = 73 ) . the incidence of splenic infarcts and abscess was 19 % ( n = 20 ) , but an incidental finding of splenic infarcts was found in 38 % ( n = 11 ) of 29 asymptomatic patients who had computed tomograms . streptococci and staphylococci were the causative organisms in 85 % ( n = 17 ) . localized findings were absent in 90 % of splenic infarcts and abscesses . abdominal computed tomograms were diagnostic of the sequelae of splenic septic emboli in 100 % . no patient had intra-abdominal bleeding complications associated with cardiopulmonary bypass . splenectomy was performed in 50 % ( n = 10 ) of patients 3-24 days ( mean , 11.2 days ) after valve replacement . indications for splenectomy included persistent sepsis in 60 % ( n = 6 ) , large ( greater than 2 cm ) and peripheral lesions in 30 % ( n = 3 ) , and splenic rupture in 10 % ( n = 1 ) . perioperative mortality of patients who underwent splenectomy was 30 % ( n = 3 ) . the following conclusions can be drawn : 1 ) splenic septic embolus is common in endocarditis . 2 ) abdominal computed tomography should be performed for all patients . 
coronary artery pattern and outcome of arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries . a successful outcome of an arterial switch operation ( aso ) for dextro-transposition of the great arteries ( d-tga ) depends in large part on the transfer of the coronary arteries to the neoaorta without distortion or narrowing . however , the origins and distribution of the coronary arteries are quite variable in d-tga ; therefore , the entire experience with aso at the children 's hospital in boston was reviewed . from 1983 through november 1989 , 314 patients underwent surgery for d-tga with the intent to perform an aso . an aso was actually performed in 290 patients , and 20 patients died , with 12 deaths ( 4.2 % ) clearly related to problems with the coronary arteries ( ca deaths ) . the aso was aborted to a senning operation in 24 patients ( 7.6 % ) , primarily due to coronary anatomy . eight coronary patterns were identified and related to the outcome of the aso . in 182 patients with the " usual " coronary pattern for d-tga ( i.e. , anterior descending and circumflex arteries from the left sinus and right coronary artery from the right sinus ) , five ca deaths occurred , and two patients had senning operations . sixty-seven patients had right coronary and circumflex arteries from the right sinus and anterior descending arteries from the left sinus . three ca deaths occurred , and one patient had a senning operation . single right coronary artery was found in 14 ; 12 had asos with three ca deaths ( 25 % ) ; and two had senning operations . one late death was due to diffuse narrowing of the single right coronary artery . single left coronary artery occurred in 11 patients , and seven had aso with no early but one late " sudden " death , whereas four had senning operations . 
midterm surgical results of arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries with intact septum . between april 4 , 1984 , and december 31 , 1987 , 156 consecutive neonates with simple transposition of the great arteries underwent an arterial switch operation ( aso ) at our institution . surgery was performed before the age of 15 days in 96 % , and patient weight was less than 3 kg in 28 % . seventeen patients ( 10.9 % ) died after surgery . one patient was lost to follow-up . of the 138 survivors , two died of myocardial infarction 35 and 40 days , respectively , after surgery . they were the only late deaths , and actuarial survival rates were 87 % ( 70 % confidence level [ cl ] , 83-89 % ) at 45 days and 87 % ( 70 % cl , 68-95 % ) at 52 months . another patient had a myocardial infarction 50 days after surgery and is well 50 months later . pulmonary stenosis was observed in 14 patients ( 10.3 % ) during the first year after surgery ; two patients were reoperated on 10 and 12 months , respectively , after aso . aortic regurgitation was observed in 17 patients : two had grades ii and iii , respectively , aortic regurgitation on aortography ; in 15 patients , it was detected only by doppler examination . at the last follow-up ( 2-52 months after aso ; mean , 27.3 + / - 11.3 months ) , all patients were asymptomatic and taking no medication . on bidimensional echocardiography , left ventricular fractional shortening was normal at rest in all survivors but one . one patient had junctional rhythm , and one had wenckebach periods ; the remainder were in sinus rhythm . for as long as 5 years after aso , late death and reintervention were rare ; 99 % of the survivors were asymptomatic and had sinus rhythm and good systemic ventricular function . 
morphological findings contributing to a failed fontan procedure . twelve-year experience . a group of 37 patients ( age range , 3 months to 29 years ) who died after the modified fontan procedure ( within 2 months ) , representing 15 % of the 245 patients undergoing this procedure from 1976 through 1988 , was reviewed to determine the causes of death . the three morphological groups were 1 ) univentricular atrioventricular connection ( n = 19 ) , 2 ) tricuspid atresia ( n = 9 ) , and 3 ) other complex malformations ( n = 9 ) . subaortic stenosis was present in 15 patients ( 40 % ) in this group compared with 31 of 208 early survivors ( 15 % ) ( p = 0.008 ) . pulmonary artery banding , identified as a risk factor in our previous experience , was performed in 14 patients , nine of whom had subaortic stenosis . nine palliative procedures for subaortic stenosis were performed in eight patients -- before the fontan procedure in three patients and concurrently with the fontan procedure in five patients . myocardial hypertrophy and signs of acute ischemic injury were common findings at autopsy ( n = 25 ) and were particularly prominent in all patients with univentricular heart of left ventricular morphology associated with subaortic stenosis and previous pulmonary artery banding ( n = 7 ) . we conclude that the present majority of deaths occurring after the modified fontan procedure are myocardial in nature and attributable to advanced myocardial hypertrophy that is potentiated by previous pulmonary artery banding and subaortic stenosis . 
early diagnosis and surgical intervention of acute aortic dissection by transesophageal color flow mapping . to determine whether transesophageal color doppler echocardiography ( tee ) is useful for the early diagnosis and surgical intervention in acute aortic dissection , 57 serial patients with acute aortic dissection were examined . these patients were evaluated by tee with either the single-plane probe ( 39 patients ) or the biplanar probe ( 18 patients ) just after admission . the intimal flap was detected in all patients , and there were 18 patients with type a dissection and 39 patients with type b dissection . the entry was visualized in 83 % of type a dissection cases and in 90 % of type b dissection cases . in two of 18 patients examined with the biplanar probe technique , the entry was detected in the longitudinal view only . emergency operations were performed in 18 patients with type a dissection and in 10 patients with ruptured type b dissection . twenty-nine of 39 patients with type b dissection were treated conservatively . the operative mortality rate of patients with type a dissection was 22 % , and that of patients with ruptured type b dissection was 60 % . the major advantage of tee is its ease of application at the bedside or in the operating room , which allows immediate and accurate diagnosis of acute aortic dissection for emergency surgical intervention . biplanar tee provides additional acoustic windows , ease of spatial orientation , and more accurate visualization of entry . tee is a useful and powerful diagnostic tool for acute aortic dissection , and by using this method , one may achieve a more rapid and aggressive surgical approach for patients with acute aortic dissection . 
clinical evaluation of single versus multiple mammary artery bypass . the superior patency and clinical advantages of internal mammary artery ( ima ) grafting are well established . however , the relative benefits of routine multiple ima grafting remain uncertain . to determine whether routine multiple compared with single ima utilization improved survival of patients undergoing coronary bypass procedures , 1,063 patients were prospectively allocated , beginning in 1984 , to divergent management strategies of single ( group 1 , n = 420 ) versus multiple ima grafting ( group 2 , n = 643 ) . subsequent analysis of anatomical extent of disease and preoperative baseline risk factors showed no differences ( p = ns ) between the two groups . all variables reflecting operative technique were similar ( p = ns ) for the two groups , except 74 % of group 1 patients with multivessel disease received a single ima graft , whereas 71 % of group 2 patients with multivessel disease received multiple imas ( p less than 0.05 ) . by multivariate analysis , impairment of left ventricular ejection fraction , acute evolving myocardial infarction , advanced age , and unstable angina were incremental risk factors for mortality ( all p less than 0.03 ) , but group assignment ( p = 0.4 ) and ultimate therapy were not ( p = 0.6 ) . survival probabilities ( expressed as 30-day group 1/group 2 ; 4-year group 1/group 2 ) were overall ( 0.97 / 0.98 ; 0.93 / 0.90 ) , elective ( 0.98 / 0.99 ; 0.97 / 0.92 ) , acute ( 0.95 / 0.97 ; 0.89 / 0.88 ) , age of less than 65 years ( 0.98 / 0.99 ; 0.97 / 0.93 ) , age of 65 years or older ( 0.93 / 0.97 ; 0.84 / 0.89 ) , ejection fraction of 0.40 or more ( 0.97 / 0.99 ; 0.95 / 0.94 ) , ejection fraction of less than 0.40 ( 0.95 / 0.96 ; 0.87 / 0.82 ) , nondiabetic ( 0.98 / 0.98 ; 0.94 / 0.91 ) , and diabetic ( 0.92 / 0.97 ; 0.88 / 0.87 ) . no differences in survival were significant ( p = ns ) . 
use of single internal mammary artery grafts in older patients . the indications for use of the internal mammary artery as a coronary bypass conduit in older patients are not clearly established . between january 1985 and december 1988 , 786 patients received single internal mammary artery grafts alone ( 717 ) or in conjunction with other procedures ( 69 ) . of these patients , 341 were 65 years of age or older ( mean , 69.3 years ) . this group was compared with those patients less than 65 years of age ( mean , 56.2 years ) . there were no significant differences between the two groups in the incidence of diabetes mellitus ; the number of distal coronary anastomoses ; left ventricular wall motion score ; the frequency of isolated bypass procedures , reoperations , or emergent operations ; or the durations of aortic clamping and cardiopulmonary bypass . the older group contained more women ( 34.9 % versus 20.7 % ) and more patients with left main coronary artery disease ( 15.5 % versus 9.4 % ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . no significant differences in the frequency of reoperation for hemorrhage , perioperative infarction , neurological deficits , requirements for intra-aortic balloon pumping , sternal wound infections , necessity for prolonged ventilatory support , or 30-day mortality ( 2.7 % versus 3.2 % ) were observed . the length of postoperative hospitalization was greater in the older group ( 11.8 versus 10.2 days ) ( p = 0.02 ) . blinded histological examination of biopsies from 61 internal mammary artery grafts ( 34 patients less than 65 years , 27 patients greater than or equal to 65 years ) showed no significant differences in luminal area or wall thickness . no significant degenerative changes were observed in either group . we conclude that the use of the internal mammary artery for bypass grafting in older patients is safe and may provide long-term benefit . 
early and late results after isolated coronary artery bypass surgery in 159 patients aged 80 years and older . we have studied 159 patients 80 years of age or older who have had isolated coronary artery bypass grafting ( cabg ) since 1977 . eighty-seven percent have had surgery since 1984 . two thirds of the patients were male , and the mean age was 82 years . most patients ( 97 % ) were in new york heart association ( nyha ) functional class iii or iv , 89 % had unstable/postinfarction angina pectoris , and 67 % had rest pain . almost half ( 47 % ) required preoperative admission to the coronary care unit , 6 % required preoperative use of an intra-aortic balloon pump , and 20 % were operated on emergently . significant left main coronary artery disease ( greater than or equal to 50 % stenosis ) was present in 41 % . ten patients ( 6.3 % ) died within 30 days of surgery , with seven more patients dying during the same hospital admission or soon after transfer to another institution . this resulted in an overall hospital mortality of 10.7 % . the median hospital stay was 10 days . on univariate analysis , the significant predictors of hospital mortality were nyha iv , angina at rest , preoperative admission to the coronary care unit , emergency operation , ejection fraction less than 0.50 , and the presence of mitral regurgitation . on multivariate analysis , ejection fraction less than 0.50 was the only significant risk factor ( p less than 0.01 ) . of hospital survivors , 98 % have been followed for a mean of 29 months . the estimated 5-year survival ( + / - sem ) of all patients was 71 + / - 4.5 % , and for hospital survivors , 80 + / - 4.5 % . the most important predictor of adverse survival was an ejection fraction less than 0.50 . seventy-nine percent are angina-free , and 89 % are in nyha classes i and ii . the majority of patients felt that they were improved by surgery . we conclude that cabg in patients 80 years or older , although associated with increased operative risk , gives excellent relief of symptoms and good 5-year survival . patients should not be denied cabg because of age alone . 
dissection of the aorta and dissecting aortic aneurysms . improving early and long-term surgical results . we report the improving surgical results in a consecutive series of 690 patients referred to one of us ( e.s.c. ) for aortic dissection between december 1956 and september 1989 , a substantial portion of whom had dissection as a complication of either previous aortic ( n = 113 , 16 ) or previous cardiac ( n = 54 , 8 % ) operation . our initial operation of choice in patients requiring multiple operations in this group of 690 patients was based on the most life-threatening or symptomatic aortic segment involved , which was ascending aorta and/or aortic arch ( asc/arch ) in 301 ( 44 % ) patients , descending thoracic aorta ( desc ) in 195 ( 28 % ) patients , and thoracoabdominal aorta ( taa ) in 194 ( 28 % ) patients . as detailed below , considerable improvement occurred in the 30-day survival rates over time , particularly for acute dissection : [ table ; see text ] the independent determinants of both early and long-term mortality were identified . independent determinants of late fatal rupture , reoperation , and neuromuscular dysfunction for distal dissectors were also identified . in our experience , continued aggressive surgical intervention for aortic dissection with modern operative techniques has resulted in markedly improved 30-day operative survival ( approaching 95 % including those patients with acute dissection ) and significant improvement in late results . 
surgical repair of postinfarction ventricular septal defect . thirty-one patients underwent repair of postinfarction ventricular septal defect ( vsd ) from 1980 to 1989 . all patients were in new york heart association functional class iv , and 15 of them were in cardiogenic shock when operated on . coronary arteriography was performed in all patients before surgery : nine had one-vessel , 11 had two-vessel , and 11 had three-vessel disease . the vsd was anterior in 15 patients and posterior in 16 . the operative technique evolved over the years from a fairly extensive infarctectomy and reconstruction of the septum and right and left ventricular walls with a double dacron patch , to minimal or no infarctectomy and closure of the vsd by excluding the infarcted muscle from the left ventricular cavity . this is accomplished by suturing a single patch of bovine pericardium to healthy endocardium surrounding the infarcted muscle . the right ventricle is left intact . overall mortality was 10 % , with three operative deaths . all deaths occurred in patients in cardiogenic shock who had three-vessel coronary artery disease . thus , the mortality for patients in shock was 20 % , and the mortality for patients with three-vessel disease was 27 % . the operative mortality for patients with posterior vsd was twice as high as in patients with anterior vsd . however , univariate analysis of various clinical , hemodynamic , and operative variables indicated that only three-vessel disease was predictive of operative mortality . because the number of patients was small and the overall operative mortality relatively low , the results of this analysis may not be valid . 
relative risks of left ventricular aneurysmectomy in patients with akinetic scars versus true dyskinetic aneurysms . from 1971 to 1988 , 303 patients underwent left ventricular aneurysm resection . we analyzed preoperative and procedure-related variables to ascertain risk factors for surgery . a distinction was made between akinetic and dyskinetic aneurysms to assess potential relation with postoperative outcome . indications for surgery were arrhythmia in 20 patients , congestive heart failure in 81 , angina in 133 , congestive heart failure and angina in 42 , and other combinations in the remaining 27 patients . the left ventricular aneurysm was dyskinetic in 180 patients and akinetic in 121 . risk factors and surgical procedures were similar in both groups . left ventricular ejection fraction was less than or equal to 30 % in 98 patients . coronary bypass grafting was performed in 269 patients , with an average of 2.3 grafts per patient . mitral valve replacement , the most common concomitant procedure , was performed in 16 patients . intra-aortic balloon assist was required postoperatively in 47 patients . overall operative mortality was 13 % ( 38 patients ) and was due to low cardiac output in 23 patients and arrhythmia in 12 patients . univariate and multivariate analyses related early mortality to new york heart association functional classification of heart failure , the predominant indications of arrhythmia or congestive heart failure , left ventricular ejection fraction less than or equal to 30 % , the need for intra-aortic balloon support , and the excision of an akinetic ( 18 % ) rather than dyskinetic ( 8 % ) left ventricular aneurysm . over a follow-up period averaging nearly 5 years , the actuarial survival at 5 years was 63 % in the dyskinetic group and 51 % in the akinetic group . 
latissimus dorsi cardiomyoplasty in the treatment of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy . stimulated skeletal muscle grafts have been proposed as a means to reinforce ventricular wall in the treatment of severe myocardial failure . latissimus dorsi cardiomyoplasty was performed in 11 patients with advanced heart failure due to cardiomyopathy who were in new york heart association ( nyha ) class iii or iv despite maximal medical therapy . there were no operative deaths . eight patients were followed for a mean of 10.8 months . two patients remain in muscle conditioning protocol . one patient died with latissimus dorsi ischemia and congestive heart failure . four of the eight patients in long-term follow-up are in nyha class i , three in class ii , and one in class iii . at 3 months of follow-up , rest radioisotopic left ventricular ejection fraction increased from 20.5 + / - 3.6 % to 26.8 + / - 8.1 % ( p less than 0.01 ) . doppler-echocardiography demonstrated that left ventricular segmental wall shortening improved from 11.3 + / - 2.5 % to 16.5 + / - 3.9 % ( p less than 0.01 ) and left ventricular stroke volume from 22.9 + / - 4.6 to 33.1 + / - 10 ml ( p less than 0.01 ) . cardiopulmonary exercise test showed that maximal oxygen consumption during treadmill test increased from 14.8 + / - 3.7 to 18.2 + / - 3.3 ml/kg . min ( p less than 0.05 ) . at 6 months of follow-up , all the above values remained essentially unchanged . furthermore , nonsustained ventricular tachycardia was abolished without specific medical therapy in four patients . thus , cardiomyoplasty improves left ventricular function , reverses congestive heart failure , and may improve long-term survival in severe cardiomyopathies . 
progressive coronary luminal narrowing after cardiac transplantation . accelerated coronary disease is a major factor limiting long-term survival in cardiac transplant recipients . coronary angiography was obtained a mean of 5.1 weeks posttransplantation and annually thereafter . replicate projections recorded after nitroglycerine administration were quantitated using computer-assisted edge detection . five hundred and fifteen coronary segments in 25 patients having 1-year follow-up and 353 segments in 18 patients reaching 2-year follow-up were compared with baseline angiograms . significant change was defined as + / - 0.10 mm , equal to 3.8 % change in diameter based on three standard deviations obtained from estimation of measurement error . mean coronary diameter fell from 2.44 + / - 0.26 mm at baseline to 2.21 + / - 0.34 mm ( p less than 0.001 ) at 1-year follow-up . this rate of diameter decline was 20-fold more rapid during the initial posttransplantation year than the rate of change of visually normal segments in nontransplant patients with coronary atherosclerosis elsewhere . there was no significant drop in mean diameter between the first and second year in those patients who had second-year studies . decrease in absolute diameter for vessels greater than 2.9 mm significantly exceeded diameter reduction for smaller vessels but did not differ when considered as a ratio of vessel diameter . in 21 of 25 patients , mean coronary diameter reduction exceeded the three-standard deviation threshold at their last angiogram , but only two of these patients had visually detectable transplant coronary disease . 
five-year experience with triple-drug immunosuppressive therapy in cardiac transplantation . although triple-drug immunosuppression with a combination of cyclosporine , prednisone , and azathioprine has been shown to improve short-term survival after cardiac transplantation , its long-term effects still are unknown . from december 1983 through december 1988 , all patients ( n = 139 ) who underwent orthotopic cardiac transplant at our institution received triple-drug immunosuppressant therapy . follow-up averaged 32.2 + / - 15.8 months . twenty-one patients died ; 134 survived more than 30 days . actuarial survival was 92 % at 1 year , 85 % at 3 years , and 78 % at 5 years . twenty-five episodes of acute graft rejection were diagnosed in 21 of the 139 recipients ( 0.18 episode per patient ) . in patients , the incidence of infection was 0.82 episode ; 72 % of infections were viral , with 10 % due to cytomegalovirus . the incidence of coronary artery disease was 10 % at 1 year , 25 % at 3 years , and 36 % at 5 years . coronary artery disease was responsible for 60 % of late deaths . arterial hypertension developed in 81 % of patients , despite relatively well-maintained renal function ( serum creatinine , 1.7 + / - 0.3 mg/dl ) . skeletal complications occurred in 15.8 % and lymphoma in 1.4 % of recipients . complete long-term rehabilitation was achieved in all but two of the surviving patients . these data support the short - and long-term effectiveness of triple-drug therapy . this regimen reduces the incidence of rejection , infection , and lymphoma , as well as the degree of renal failure . however , the incidence of posttransplant coronary artery disease has not been reduced , and graft atherosclerosis represents the major cause of late graft failure and death . 
late complications in pediatric cardiac transplant recipients . late complications occurring more than 3 months after cardiac transplantation were analyzed in 29 pediatric patients in whom 31 cardiac transplantations were performed . age at transplantation ranged from 3 months to 18 years ( mean , 11.3 years ) with follow-up ranging from 3.5 to 54 months ( mean , 21.6 months ) . there were seven late deaths and two patients with retransplantations . of nine grafts lost , eight were due to acute rejection , and one was due to coronary disease . four of the grafts lost were secondary to patient noncompliance with prescribed immunosuppression . the mean rejection frequency more than 1 year after cardiac transplantation was significantly higher in those patients who eventually lost their grafts ; however , these patients could not be distinguished by their rejection frequency in the first year . eight patients had coronary disease , with five diagnosed at autopsy , two at cardiac retransplantation , and one by angiography . all eight patients were on double immunosuppression ; none of the 19 patients on triple therapy had coronary disease with similar follow-up . there were 12 serious infections in eight patients ( four associated with okt3 ) with no deaths . five patients had arrhythmias requiring treatment including two pacemakers ; four of the five were associated with rejection episodes . twelve of 29 patients developed early hypertension , and five developed late hypertension ( greater than 1 year ) . there were two malignancies ; one patient with hodgkin 's lymphoma was cured with chemotherapy , and one patient with histiocytic lymphoma was discovered at autopsy . two patients had cholecystectomies , and five patients required laser gingivectomies . 
the changing clinical spectrum of thromboangiitis obliterans ( buerger 's disease ) . between 1970 and 1987 , 112 patients were diagnosed as having thromboangiitis obliterans ( tao ) . the age was 42 + / - 11 years ( mean + / - sd ; range , 20-75 years ) ; 23 % were women , and 7 % were more than 60 years old when they were first diagnosed . ischemic ulcerations were present in 85 ( 76 % ) patients : 24 ( 28 % ) patients with upper-extremity , 39 ( 46 % ) patients with lower-extremity , and 22 ( 26 % ) patients with both upper - and lower-extremity lesions . ninety-one ( 81 % ) patients had rest pain , 49 ( 44 % ) patients had raynaud 's phenomenon , and 43 ( 38 % ) patients had superficial thrombophlebitis . we were able to follow up 89 of the 112 ( 79 % ) patients for 1-460 months ( mean follow-up time , 91.6 + / - 84 months ) . sixty-five ( 73 % ) patients had no amputations , while 24 ( 27 % ) had one or more of the following amputations : finger , six ( 15 % ) patients ; toe , 13 ( 33 % ) patients ; transmetatarsal , four ( 10 % ) patients ; below knee , 14 ( 36 % ) patients ; and above knee , two ( 5 % ) patients . forty-three ( 48 % ) patients stopped smoking for a mean of 80 + / - 105 months ( median , 46.5 months ; range , 1-420 months ) , and only two ( 5 % ) patients had amputations after they stopped smoking , while 22 ( 42 % ) patients had amputations while continuing to smoke ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the spectrum of patients with tao is changing in that the male-to-female ratio is decreasing ( 3:1 ) , more older patients are being diagnosed , and upper-extremity involvement is commonly present . in the 48 % of patients who stopped smoking , amputations and continued disease activity were uncommon . 
high-risk reparative surgery . a neglected alternative to heart transplantation . the selection of patients for either high-risk reparative operations on the heart or for transplantation has become increasingly difficult as a result of improved results with both modalities . a retrospective review was done of patients referred for heart transplantation who were not considered candidates for conventional cardiac surgery , yet instead underwent reparative procedures rather than transplantation . of 23 adult patients referred during a 7-year period , 18 had coronary artery disease , and five had valvular heart disease . all had new york heart association class iv symptoms . preoperative left ventricular ejection fractions were in the range 0.08-0 .63 ( mean , 0.28 ) . ten of 18 patients with coronary artery disease required insertion of an intra-aortic balloon pump for hemodynamic support perioperatively . seven patients had primary coronary artery bypass grafts , and 10 had reoperative coronary bypass procedures . one patient had a left ventricular aneurysmectomy , and one had endocardial stripping in addition to myocardial revascularization procedures . of the patients with valvular disease , three had aortic valve replacement , of which two were reoperations , and two others had mitral valve replacements with tricuspid annuloplasties . with a mean follow-up of 25 months , 1 - , 3 - , 12 - , and 24-month actuarial survival rates were 91 % , 87 % , 82 % , and 76 % , respectively . one patient who underwent aortic valve replacement in this study successfully received heart transplantation 19 months postoperatively . these results compare favorably with the current results for patients undergoing first-graft heart transplantation . all survivors enjoy new york heart association class i or ii functional capacity . 
bradyarrhythmia after heart transplantation . incidence , time course , and outcome . from june 1980 to april 1989 , 72 of 401 ( 18 % ) adult recipients of orthotopic heart transplantation developed prolonged ( greater than 24 hours ) bradyarrhythmias ( less than 60 beats/min ) within 5 days after transplantation . junctional bradycardia occurred in 50 ( 69 % ) recipients , sinus bradycardia in 18 ( 25 % ) , and slow ventricular response during atrial fibrillation in four ( 6 % ) . fifty-five of 72 ( 76 % ) patients had bradyarrhythmias of less than 20 days ' duration ( less than 7 days , 50 patients ; 7-20 days , five patients ) . fifty patients returned to sinus rhythm ( greater than 60 beats/min ) by the time of discharge . five patients expired within 20 days . seventeen of 72 ( 24 % ) patients had bradyarrhythmia for more than 20 days , which was symptomatic in 11 . all 17 patients ( junctional bradycardia , 13 patients ; sinus bradycardia , four patients ) received a permanent pacemaker within 40 days after transplantation . between 1 and 12 months ( mean , 4 + / - 3 months ) after pacemaker implantation , 12 patients recovered sinus rhythm ( greater than 70 beats/min ) . the other five patients had intrinsic rates of 32-57 beats/min ( mean , 48 + / - 10 beats/min ) during 1-9 months ( mean , 4 + / - 3 months ) of follow-up . the donor ischemic time in bradyarrhythmia patients was 202 + / - 34 minutes , which was significantly longer ( p less than 0.01 ) than the 173 + / - 43 minutes for those patients without bradyarrhythmia . conclusively , the incidence of posttransplantation bradyarrhythmia is relatively high . it is usually temporary , however , even in patients with a prolonged duration of bradyarrhythmia . a relation appears to exist between donor ischemic time and the incidence of bradyarrhythmia . 
factors affecting survival in total artificial heart recipients before transplantation . to identify factors affecting the successful bridge to transplantation , experience with 32 recipients of the jarvik-7 artificial heart was reviewed . between patients with and without a successful bridge , there were no significant differences in preoperative hepatorenal function or postoperative hemodynamics , but there were significant differences in body size . when recipients were divided according to body surface areas of less than or greater than 1.8 m2 , the smaller patients more frequently developed respirator dependence ( 73 % vs. 18 % , p less than 0.01 ) , renal failure ( 53 % vs. 18 % , p less than 0.05 ) , and hepatic failure and sepsis , resulting in less frequent qualification for transplantation ( 20 % vs. 65 % , p less than 0.05 ) . there were no successful bridge operations in seven patients with body surface areas of less than 1.7 m2 , and only one success in nine patients who were less than 170 cm in height , despite use of a smaller stroke volume model . the smaller patients had poorer ventricular filling , which was largely compensated for by the drive controls set for significantly longer diastole and higher vacuum , resulting in similar hemodynamics between the groups . the results suggest that device fitting as manifested by body size is an important factor affecting major organ recovery and subsequent transplantation in recipients of the jarvik-7 artificial heart . a paracorporeal device may be advisable for patients with body surface areas of less than 1.8 m2 or who were less than 175 cm in height until an even smaller model with a better fit in the thorax becomes available . 
deferoxamine fails to improve postischemic cardiac function in hypertrophied hearts . myocardial hypertrophy is a well-recognized risk factor in congenital cardiac surgery . hypertrophied hearts have been demonstrated to have an increased vulnerability to ischemia/reperfusion injury . we studied the effects of the iron chelator and hydroxyl radical scavenger deferoxamine given during early reperfusion in a model of isolated retroperfused rabbit hearts made hypertrophic by aortic banding early in life ( 1 week of age ) . the rabbits were studied at 6-8 weeks of age , and the hearts were subjected to 30 minutes of 37 degrees c ischemia followed by 30 minutes of reperfusion . postischemic recovery of isovolumic developed pressure was measured by using an intracavitary balloon in both the untreated ( n = 6 ) and the deferoxamine-treated ( n = 6 ) groups and compared with normal age-matched controls . deferoxamine ( 50 mumol/kg ) was given to one group with the hypertrophied hearts during the first 10 minutes of reperfusion . the left ventricular weight/body weight ratio in the hypertrophied hearts was 2.9 + / - 0.4 x 10 ( -3 ) ( n = 14 ) versus 2.0 + / - 0.1 x 10 ( -3 ) in the age-matched controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . postischemic peak developed pressure recovered to 102 + / - 6 % of the preischemic value in the normal hearts after 30 minutes of reperfusion compared with 75 + / - 5 % for the untreated and 71 + / - 4 % for the deferoxamine-treated hearts ( p less than 0.05 vs. control ) . we conclude that chronic hypertrophy from early in life leads to increased susceptibility to ischemia and that the iron chelator deferoxamine is not effective in preventing the injury of reperfusion in hypertrophied hearts . 
right ventricular function and metabolism . right ventricular protection may be limited with current methods of cardioplegic delivery . sensitive measurements of right and left ventricular function and metabolism were made in 30 patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass surgery with cold cardioplegic arrest . myocardial adenine nucleotide concentrations decreased with cardioplegia and reperfusion in both the right and left ventricles despite adequate levels of precursors , suggesting perioperative mitochondrial dysfunction . postoperatively , right and left ventricular pressures were measured with micromanometer catheters and volumes were measured by nuclear ventriculography . right and left ventricular systolic elastance was calculated by the isochronic method and by the end-systolic method . both methods provided sensitive indexes of end-systolic elastance . this study demonstrated that right ventricular function and metabolism can be evaluated by methods analogous to methods used in the left ventricle . these results suggest that right ventricular functional and metabolic recovery are delayed despite apparently adequate myocardial protection . sensitive measurements may permit improved assessment of alternative methods of right ventricular protection . 
is adenosine 5 ' - triphosphate derangement or free-radical-mediated injury the major cause of ventricular dysfunction during reperfusion ? role of adenine nucleoside transport in myocardial reperfusion injury . the aim of this study was to determine the dual role of atp as an energy substrate and as a major source of oxygen-derived free-radical-mediated reperfusion injury by using adenine nucleoside blocker , p-nitrobenzylthioinosine ( nbmpr ) , and adenosine deaminase inhibitor , erythro-9 - ( 2-hydroxy-3-nonyl ) adenine ( ehna ) . in a randomized study , 16 dogs were instrumented with minor-axis ltz-piezoelectric crystals and intraventricular pressure transducers to monitor , off bypass , left ventricular performance by using a sensitive and load-independent index of contractility ( slope of the stroke work-end-diastolic length relation ) . hearts were subjected to 60 minutes of normothermic global ischemia and 120 minutes of reperfusion . normal saline without ( group 1 , n = 8 ) or with ( group 2 , n = 8 ) nbmpr and ehna was infused in three boluses into the cardiopulmonary bypass reservoir before ischemia and reperfusion . transmural serial biopsies were obtained before and during ischemia and reperfusion and analyzed for myocardial adenine nucleotide pool intermediates by using high-performance liquid chromatography . in the control group , three hearts developed ischemic contracture and another three hearts exhibited cardiogenic shock during reperfusion . in the ehna/nbmpr-treated group , left ventricular performance recovered within 30 minutes of reperfusion ( p less than 0.05 vs. control ) . myocardial atp was depleted to 20 % of normal in both groups by the end of ischemia ( p less than 0.05 ) . intramyocardial adenosine in the ehna/nbmpr-treated group was 12-fold greater ( 15.09 + / - 1.6 nmol/mg protein ) than the control group at the end of the ischemic period ( p less than 0.05 ) . inosine was about fourfold higher in the control group ( 19.07 + / - 1.50 nmol/mg protein ) compared with the drug-treated group ( p less than 0.05 ) . during reperfusion , myocardial atp levels increased to approximately 50 % of normal in the ehna/nbmpr group while remaining depressed ( 20 % of normal ) in the control group . thus , despite the dramatic loss of myocardial atp during ischemia , complete recovery of ventricular performance and significant repletion of atp during reperfusion were observed when adenosine transport and deamination were modulated during ischemia and reperfusion . these results suggest that 1 ) the myocardium may have more atp than is needed for basic cardiac functions and 2 ) washout of atp diffusible catabolites is detrimental to ventricular performance during reperfusion . specific blockade of nucleoside transport resulted in complete functional recovery despite low but critical atp levels . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
prolonged cardiac preservation . evaluation of the university of wisconsin preservation solution by comparison with the st. thomas ' hospital cardioplegic solutions in the rat . the university of wisconsin solution differs from other types of solutions used for organ preservation because it contains high-energy phosphate precursors ( adenosine and phosphate ) , impermeants ( lactobionate and raffinose ) , an oncotic agent ( pentafraction ) , and antioxidants ( allopurinol and glutathione ) . these components have the potential to enhance the preservation of atp , reduce intracellular and extracellular edema , and attenuate free-radical-mediated injury . the university of wisconsin solution has been demonstrated to enhance and extend the preservation of the liver , pancreas , and kidney , but its potential role in the heart remains unproven . we have evaluated the university of wisconsin solution ( du pont ) by comparing it with the st. thomas ' hospital cardioplegic solutions no . 1 and no . 2 ( plegisol ) , which are used in europe and the united states for routine cardiac surgery and transplantation . for each solution , 10 isolated working rat hearts were arrested by 10 ml of the solution ( at 4 degrees c ) and then maintained immersed in the same solution for 4 hours at 4 degrees c. mean recovery of functional indexes ( expressed as a percentage of their preischemic control values ) after use of the university of wisconsin solution were as follows : peak aortic pressure , 90.6 + / - 1.0 ; dp/dt , 71.5 + / - 5.5 ; aortic flow , 81.6 + / - 4.7 ; coronary flow , 87.5 + / - 3.5 ; and cardiac output , 82.6 + / - 3.5 . in contrast , the mean recoveries after st. thomas ' hospital solution no . 1 were as follows : peak aortic pressure , 82.8 + / - 1.3 ; dp/dt , 49.7 + / - 3.0 ; aortic flow , 58.4 + / - 5.3 ; coronary flow , 79.6 + / - 5.9 ; and cardiac output , 63.0 + / - 4.9 . in contrast still , mean recoveries after st. thomas ' hospital solution no . 2 were as follows : peak aortic pressure , 83.1 + / - 1.2 ; dp/dt , 40.7 + / - 6.1 ; aortic flow , 37.0 + / - 5.1 ; coronary flow , 65.8 + / - 3.6 ; and cardiac output , 43.1 + / - 5.6 . the recovery of all indexes were significantly superior ( p less than 0.005 ) after preservation with university of wisconsin solution compared with either of the st. thomas ' hospital solutions . 
efficacy of recombinant-derived human superoxide dismutase on porcine left ventricular contractility after normothermic global myocardial ischemia and hypothermic cardioplegic arrest . a porcine model of normothermic global ischemia ( 40 minutes ) followed by systemic cooling to 25 degrees c with 4 degrees c crystalloid cardioplegic arrest ( 90 minutes ) was used to assess the efficacy of recombinant-derived human superoxide dismutase ( r-hsod ) on postreperfusion left ventricular function while on cardiopulmonary bypass . isovolumic hemodynamic function was monitored , and adenine nucleotide pool was measured in myocardial biopsy specimens and coronary sinus effluent . the treatment group of pigs ( n = 7 ) received 15 mg/kg r-hsod immediately before warm reperfusion , both left ventricular peak systolic pressure and developed pressure were significantly better in the r-hsod group of pigs ( p less than 0.05 vs. placebo ) . this improvement persisted at 60 minutes of reperfusion ( p less than 0.05 vs. placebo ) . myocardial atp and total adenine nucleotides did not differ , nor did adenine nucleotide catabolites in the coronary sinus effluent differ between treatment groups of pigs . the exception to this was the nucleotide catabolite inosine , which was significantly elevated in coronary sinus effluent of pigs treated with r-hsod at 30 minutes of reperfusion ( p less than 0.05 vs. placebo ) . in this model of global ischemia and reperfusion , a recombinant-derived human free-radical scavenger provides significant protection of systolic but not diastolic function . values for myocardial atp and total adenine nucleotide content suggest that the improvement in mechanical function during reperfusion is not due to enhanced preservation of myocardial bioenergetics . 
effects of low perfusate ca2 + concentration on newborn myocardial function after ischemia . a greater dependence on transsarcolemmal ca2 + flux and immaturity of ca2 + sequestration capacity may potentiate ca2 ( + ) - mediated reperfusion injury in the newborn myocardium . the effect of serum ionized ca2 + concentration on left ventricular systolic and diastolic function after ischemia was studied in 5-7-day-old piglets undergoing a 90-minute period of cold-blood cardioplegic arrest . in the control group , ca2 + was maintained at 1.2 mm ( group a [ n = 6 ] ) . the cardioplegic solution and bypass perfusate were modified to achieve a low ca2 + concentration , 0.25 mm , in group b ( n = 6 ) . left ventricular pressure-volume loops were acquired by using high-fidelity pressure-sensor-tipped and volume-conductance catheters . ventricular function was assessed from the slope of end-systolic ( ees ) and end-diastolic ( k ) pressure-volume relations during transient caval occlusion . both groups showed a significant reduction in ees after ischemia ( p less than 0.05 ) . intergroup comparison of ees after ischemia demonstrated a better recovery of the systolic function in the low ca2 + group , 64 + / - 7 % versus 49 + / - 6 % in the normal ca2 + group ( p = 0.05 ) . there was a significant increase in chamber stiffness index in group a ( k , 0.48 + / - 0.06 to 0.65 + / - 0.05 ml-1 , p less than 0.01 ) versus no significant change in group b. this study shows 1 ) the feasibility of acquiring continuous pressure-volume data in neonatal hearts by using a conductance catheter system , and 2 ) better preservation of systolic function and diastolic compliance in normal newborn myocardium by low ca2 + concentration in the peri-ischemic period . 
comparison of medical and surgical therapy for uncomplicated descending aortic dissection . to guide the choice of medical versus surgical therapy for patients with descending ( type b ) aortic dissection ( tear in the descending aorta without involvement of the ascending aorta ) , multivariate survival analysis was applied to 136 patients admitted to two medical centers between 1975 and 1988 with acute ( n = 89 ) or chronic ( n = 47 ) descending dissection : group 1 , all 136 patients ; group 2 , 106 patients without rupture , pulse loss , or visceral organ compromise ; and group 3 , 56 patients from group 2 without major cardiac or renal disease ( 23 surgical and 33 medical ) . group 3 medical and surgical subgroups were well matched for baseline characteristics and were potential candidates for either mode of therapy . by cox model analysis , significant predictors of mortality were pleural rupture , other dissection complications , increasing age , and cardiac disease ( all p less than 0.01 ) . surgical versus medical therapy was not an independent determinant of survival in any of the three groups for acute or chronic dissection . survival probabilities for all group 3 patients at 1 , 5 , and 10 years were 0.94 , 0.87 , and 0.32 ( medical ) and 0.90 , 0.80 , and 0.50 ( surgical ) . despite the limitations of this retrospective study ( including the possibility of undefined treatment selection biases ) , these data suggest that medical or early surgical therapy is associated with equivalent outcome in selected patients with uncomplicated acute or chronic descending aortic dissection . 
reappraisal of the mechanism for cerebrospinal fluid hypertension during aortic surgery . cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) hypertension during aortic surgery is a poorly understood , multifactorial event that may increase the risk of spinal cord injury . to assess the factors that may contribute to changes in csf pressure during aortic surgery , measurements of ascending arterial and csf pressures were made in 17 anesthetized mongrel dogs . changes in csf patterns were monitored under several conditions tested in random sequence . these included systemic hypertension produced by an infusion of phenylephrine , cross-clamping of the descending thoracic aorta , and manual , superior displacement of the transverse aortic arch ( arch elevation ) , either alone or in conjunction with the cross-clamp . hypertension , cross-clamping , and cross-clamping combined with arch elevation all produced significant increases in ascending mean arterial pressure ( 204 + / - 20 , 170 + / - 8 , and 158 + / - 11 mm hg , respectively , vs. 117 + / - 8 mm hg [ control ] ; ( p less than 0.01 ) . small , nonsignificant increases in csf pressure were detected in the cross-clamp group , but none were detected with hypertension alone , despite significant increases in ascending arterial blood pressure in both groups . thus , neither arterial hypertension nor cross-clamping alone could be demonstrated directly to cause significant csf hypertension . however , when aortic elevation ( displacement ) was combined with cross-clamping , the rise in csf pressure increased to significant levels , even though the ascending arterial hypertension was least severe in this group . in contrast , arch elevation alone did not produce any significant increase in ascending arterial pressure but did produce an approximately 114 % increase in csf pressure ( 15.2 + / - mm hg vs. 7.7 + / - 1 mm hg [ control ] ; p less than 0.01 . 
diffuse proliferative lupus nephritis : long-term observations in patients treated with ancrod . twenty-two patients with histologically demonstrated diffuse proliferative lupus nephritis ( dpln ) and glomerular thrombosis received a 14-day course of ancrod , followed in most by nitrogen mustard ( mechlorethamine hydrochloride ) 0.4 mg/kg . many were referred when renal function was deteriorating despite large doses of prednisone . the patients had severe disease ; there was a high degree of glomerular sclerosis ; the median serum creatinine was 137 mumol/l , the diastolic blood pressure 101 mm hg . reported previously was a short-term improvement in renal function , blood pressure , and renal histology . reported here is the long-term follow-up on all 22 patients for an average of 58 months . three died of causes other than renal failure . eleven developed end-stage renal disease an average of 27 months after ancrod treatment . the other 8 are alive with no deterioration of renal function after an average of 70 months . this outcome seems satisfactory when disease severity is taken into consideration . factors present at treatment start that might be associated with subsequent renal function deterioration were : prior prolonged prednisone treatment , extensive glomerular sclerosis , high plasma alpha 2-antiplasmin and possibly triglycerides . during the follow-up period after completion of treatment , later relapses of sle and dpln appeared to be an important predictor of deterioration of renal function . 
disappearance of renin-induced proteinuria by an ace-inhibitor : a case report . a 55-year-old man developed renovascular hypertension that was characterized by high plasma renin activity . this was accompanied by nephrotic range proteinuria . treatment with nifedipine and furosemide lowered the blood pressure to normal values , but proteinuria persisted . however , treatment with an ace-inhibitor brought resolution of the proteinuria , suggesting a role for angiotensin ii in urinary protein loss . 
amniotic and thromboembolism . embolic phenomena in pregnancy demand rapid investigation and treatment . regardless , some patients will not survive due to the enormity of the insult . optimally , such patients should be treated in tertiary care centers , but this is not always possible . 
total knee arthroplasty in diabetes mellitus . a retrospective study was done of 59 total knee arthroplasties ( tkas ) in 40 patients diagnosed with diabetes mellitus . the overall infection rate was 7 % , with an overall revision rate of 10 % and an average follow-up period of 4.3 years . wound complications were present in 12 % of the tkas . the rate of deep joint infections in diabetic patients was statistically higher than the reported incidence of sepsis in nondiabetic patients . therefore , maximum precautions should be taken for diabetic patients having tka to minimize both wound complications and joint sepsis . 
trochanteric fractures . mobility , complications , and mortality in 607 cases treated with the sliding-screw technique . six hundred seven trochanteric fractures ( 563 patients ) were treated with a sliding-screw technique and followed clinically and roentgenographically for at least one year . of 351 patients admitted from their homes , 209 ( 60 % ) were discharged to their homes after an average of 18 days in the hospital . during the first year another 61 ( 17 % ) patients returned home after rehabilitation in a geriatric ward . of 446 patients walking without support or with one cane before surgery , 360 ( 80 % ) had regained the same mobility after one year . the one-year mortality rate was 18 % , while the ten-year rate was 74 % . compared with a control cohort , the mortality rate was increased during the first two years after fracture . the increase in mortality was influenced by advanced age , admission from long-term care institutions , male gender , and ambulatory or nonambulatory status before surgery . forty-five ( 7.4 % ) were reoperated , 17 because of technical complications , three because of infection , and three because of nonunion . no further nonunions occurred . the deep infection rate was nine of 339 ( 2.7 % ) before and two of 268 ( 0.8 % ) after the introduction of antibiotic prophylaxis . thromboembolic complications decreased from 4.1 % to 1.2 % after the introduction of dextran 70 as thromboembolic prophylaxis . 
mechanical measures in the prophylaxis of postoperative thromboembolism in total knee arthroplasty . total knee arthroplasty patients are at high risk for deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism . prophylaxis against deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in these patients seems mandatory . pharmacologic agents such as dextran 40 , aspirin , and warfarin are effective but may be associated with significant complications such as drug reaction , bleeding , hematoma , and hemarthrosis . heparin was not effective and was associated with significant bleeding complications . mechanical methods such as continuous passive motion and sequential pneumatic compression stockings were without complications and seemed equal to or more effective than pharmacologic agents . adding warfarin to mechanical methods did not seem to augment the antithromboembolic effect of the mechanical methods . 
the antihypertensive efficacy of hydrochlorothiazide is not prostacyclin dependent . we tested the hypothesis that vascular prostacyclin synthesis is stimulated by hydrochlorothiazide and could account for some of the drug 's antihypertensive effect . we studied 13 patients with mild essential hypertension in a randomized , double-blind design to assess the effects of indomethacin on hydrochlorothiazide 's ability to lower blood pressure , alter body weight , stimulate plasma renin activity , and modulate vascular prostacyclin biosynthesis as assessed by the urinary excretion of the major enzymatically produced metabolite of prostacyclin , 2,3-dinor-6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha ( pgf1 alpha ) , measured by gc/ms . administration of hydrochlorothiazide , 50 mg daily for 2 weeks , was associated with a significant decrease in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure in both supine ( systolic , 148 + / - 3 to 136 + / - 3 mm hg ; diastolic , 97 + / - 2 to 94 + / - 3 mm hg ) and upright ( systolic , 151 + / - 4 to 131 + / - 2 mm hg ; diastolic , 103 + / - 2 to 97 + / - 3 mm hg ) positions . hydrochlorothiazide administration resulted in a 1 kg weight loss and stimulation of plasma renin activity from 1.7 + / - 0.4 to 5.3 + / - 1.1 ng angiotensin i/ml/hr . however , the urinary excretion of 2,3-dinor-6-keto-pgf1 alpha was unchanged after administration of hydrochlorothiazide ( 86 + / - 13/ng/gm creatinine during placebo , 74 + / - 13 ng/gm during week 1 of hydrochlorothiazide , and 70 + / - 9 ng/gm during week 2 of the drug ) . administration of indomethacin , 50 mg twice a day , resulted in greater than 60 % inhibition of 2,3-dinor-6-keto-pgf1 alpha excretion but did not affect the antihypertensive response to hydrochlorothiazide . indomethacin did not oppose the diuretic effect of hydrochlorothiazide as assessed by weight loss but did attenuate the rise in plasma renin activity . our data demonstrate that the blood pressure-lowering effect of a thiazide diuretic does not require enhanced prostacyclin synthesis and the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin does not antagonize the antihypertensive efficacy of hydrochlorothiazide . 
quality of life among hypertensive patients with a diuretic background who are taking atenolol and enalapril . the cardioselective beta-blocker atenolol and the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril were compared for efficacy , safety , and quality-of-life factors in 30 patients with hypertension whose hypertension was inadequately controlled with diuretic alone . atenolol ( 50 to 100 mg once a day ) and enalapril ( 2.5 to 40 mg once a day ) , combined with hydrochlorothiazide ( 25 mg once a day ) , had similar levels of efficacy and safety . a comprehensive battery of psychologic assessments for quality of life was administered , including measures of anxiety , depression , psychiatric symptoms , memory , and psychomotor function . these five conceptually based clusters were first analyzed by multivariate analysis of variance procedures , followed by univariate analyses of the individual variables composing each domain . in general , neither atenolol nor enalapril was associated with major changes in psychologic functioning . the only data cluster with a statistically significant change was memory function , primarily as a result of lower scores of the digit span ( backward ) test , for atenolol relative to enalapril . these preliminary findings suggest that atenolol and enalapril have comparable degrees of efficacy and safety , with no major disparities in quality-of-life effects , for hypertensive patients with a history of taking diuretics and this sort of quality-of-life assessment can be performed during trials of antihypertensive drugs . 
effect of indecainide in patients with left ventricular dysfunction . indecainide , a new antiarrhythmic agent classified as type ic was evaluated in 11 patients with heart disease who had greater than or equal to 30 ventricular premature complexes/hour , moderate-to-marked left ventricular dysfunction , and mean ejection fraction 34 % + / - 8 % . patients received indecainide , 50 mg by mouth , every 6 hours and the dose was increased until greater than or equal to 80 % suppression was noted , adverse effects occurred , or a maximum dose of 100 mg indecainide was given every 6 hours . ventricular premature complexes were suppressed greater than or equal to 80 % in nine patients ( p less than 0.05 ) and ventricular tachycardia episodes were completely suppressed in five of eight patients . the effective or maximal mean daily indecainide dose was 191 + / - 32 mg ; half of the responders achieved achieved efficacy at serum drug concentration greater than or equal to 600 ng/ml . serum drug concentration was directly related to gender ( r = 0.78 , p less than 0.04 ) and inversely related to creatinine clearance ( r = 0.74 , p less than 0.05 ) and ejection fraction ( r = 0.71 , p less than 0.02 ) . indecainide prolonged mean pr and qrs intervals ( p less than 0.05 ) but not qt or qtc . there was a linear relation between percent change in pr ( r = 0.80 , p less than 0.001 ) and qrs ( r = 0.66 , p less than 0.001 ) intervals and serum drug concentration . after starting or increasing the dose , careful observation of patients with decreased renal function or reduced ejection fraction should be exercised because they attain higher drug concentration than normal subjects . 
increased erythrocyte sodium-lithium countertransport activity in essential hypertension is due to an increased affinity for extracellular sodium . 1 . sodium-lithium countertransport activity in a standard assay , its sodium affinity constant and maximum velocity were measured in erythrocytes from normal subjects and from essential hypertensive patients with and without a family history of hypertension . 2 . in normal subjects the sodium concentration used in the standard assay was similar to the sodium affinity constant so that the activity measured in this assay was less than the maximum velocity . 3 . in patients with essential hypertension and a positive family history , 33 % had a sodium-lithium countertransport activity greater than the upper limit of the normal control range ( 0.4 mmol of li + h-1 l-1 of cells ) . 4 . the reason for the raised sodium-lithium countertransport activity was an increased sodium affinity ( lower sodium affinity constant ) at the outside ion-binding site . 5 . of the patients with essential hypertension and a positive family history but sodium-lithium countertransport activity within the normal range in the standard assay , 30 % also had a low sodium affinity constant . 6 . a low sodium affinity constant at the outside site of the sodium-lithium countertransporter may be a more specific indicator for a group of patients with inherited hypertension than the standard sodium-lithium countertransport activity assay . 
depression and recovery of right ventricular function after cardiopulmonary bypass . transient left ventricular dysfunction is commonly described in association with cardiopulmonary bypass ( cpb ) . we evaluated changes in right ventricular ( rv ) function after elective cardiac surgery in 24 patients with normal preoperative cardiac function . in all , irrespective of distribution of coronary artery disease or use of pharmacologic support , a transient depression of rv systolic function with respect to both preinduction and initial postoperative ( postop ) values occurred 262 + / - 116 min post-cpb as represented by a decrease in rv stroke volume index ( 25.0 + / - 1.7 vs. 33.4 + / - 1.9 ml/m2 postop ) and rv ejection fraction ( 31.0 + / - 2.2 vs. 45.6 + / - 2.5 % postop ) , and an increase in rv end-systolic and end-diastolic volume indices . this depression responded readily to pharmacologic therapy within 2 h , resolved within 24 h , and had no adverse consequences in these otherwise healthy patients . further studies are needed to identify the cause of this phenomenon and its importance in patients with preexisting cardiac dysfunction . 
bronchial hyperreactivity in patients with mitral valve disease . to elicit the mechanism of bronchial hyperreactivity ( bhr ) in chronic heart failure ( chf ) , a methacholine inhalation test , pulmonary function test , and cardiac catheterization were performed in 19 patients with mitral valve disease ( mvd ) , and the change of severity of bhr before and after mitral valve replacement ( mvr ) was also examined in seven of 19 patients with mvd . sixteen of 19 patients with mvd showed significant increase in respiratory resistance in methacholine inhalation test , while all normal subjects did not . the maximal expiratory flow at 25 percent of vital capacity ( vmax25 ) , a parameter of small airway disease , correlated significantly with log cumulative dose producing a 35 percent decrease in respiratory conductance ( pd35grs ) ( r = 0.536 ) and the duration of symptoms ( r = -0.682 ) . there was a significant correlation between log pd35grs and mean pulmonary artery wedge pressure ( r = -0.466 ) . after mvr , log pd35grs was significantly improved in all seven operated-on patients , although six patients retained bhr . we conclude that patients with long-term mvd have marked bhr and that bhr in long-term mvd is related to peripheral airway narrowing with organic remodeling , which was not ameliorated with mvr procedure , in addition to pulmonary congestion . 
respiratory muscle strength in congestive heart failure . in experimental animals , conditions which drastically decrease cardiac output may reduce the strength and endurance of respiratory muscles leading to hypercapnic respiratory failure . because patients with chronic chf have reduced cardiac output and vital capacity ( fvc ) , we measured pimax and pemax and maximal handgrip force in 16 patients with chf and 18 amns . the patients with chf had a mean left ventricular ejection fraction of 26 + / - 7 percent . maximal respiratory pressures were significantly reduced ; group mean values ( + / - sd ) for pimax at frc were 41.4 + / - 5.6 cm h2o ( chf ) and 102.1 + / - 27.4 cm h2o ( amn ) ( p less than 0.001 ) , with pimax values in five patients with chf as low as 20 to 30 cm h2o . in most patients , pemax was comparably reduced . handgrip force was less dramatically reduced , suggesting selective respiratory muscle weakness . possible explanations include reduction in respiratory muscle blood flow or generalized muscular atrophy and weakness related to cardiac cachexia . 
the effects of phenylephrine on right ventricular performance in patients with pulmonary hypertension pulmonary hypertension causes right ventricular ischemia and failure as a result of increased afterload combined with reduced coronary blood flow . increasing coronary driving pressure by raising aortic pressure with phenylephrine has been shown to reverse right ventricular ischemia from pulmonary hypertension in animals . since vasodilators often fail to reduce afterload , we tested whether raising the coronary driving pressure would improve right ventricular function in man . ten patients with pulmonary hypertension had hemodynamics and right ventricular coronary driving pressure measured before and 10 minutes after a steady state was reached with a phenylephrine infusion titrated to raise aortic pressure by 25 percent . phenylephrine caused a significant ( p less than .01 ) increase in mean aortic pressure ( 84 to 108 mm hg ) and right ventricular coronary driving pressure ( 46 to 69 mm hg ) . in response , there was a significant ( p less than .01 ) rise in mean pulmonary artery pressure ( 58 to 67 mm hg ) , right ventricular end-diastolic pressure ( 10 to 16 mm hg ) and wedge pressure ( 5 to 9 mm hg ) , and an insignificant fall in cardiac output ( 3.26 to 3.09 l/min ) and pulmonary artery o2 saturation ( 57 to 49 percent ) . although phenylephrine increased right ventricular coronary driving pressure , it worsened right ventricular function as manifest by a rise in end-diastolic pressure and fall in cardiac output . any benefit of raising right ventricular coronary driving pressure may have been offset by alpha vasoconstriction of right ventricular coronary blood flow and/or pulmonary arterial vasoconstriction . phenylephrine does not appear to be a useful therapy of right ventricular failure from pulmonary hypertension in patients who fail vasodilators . 
single lung transplantation for primary pulmonary hypertension . single lung transplantation has become a therapeutic option for end-stage interstitial lung disease and obstructive lung disease . our group recently extended this treatment to three patients with primary pulmonary hypertension . all patients had marked decreases in pulmonary artery pressures and pulmonary vascular resistance and increases in cardiac output following single lung transplantation . spirometry , lung volumes , and diffusion capacity were not different in comparison to preoperative studies . quantitative ventilation-perfusion scans revealed the majority of perfusion distributed to the transplanted lung , with ventilation approximately equally divided between the native and the transplanted lung . despite ventilation-perfusion imbalance , there was no resting hypoxemia and there was no arterial oxygen desaturation with exercise . one patient expired on the 30th postoperative day due to cytomegalovirus infection of the lungs . in the remaining two patients , maximum exercise capacity following transplantation was near normal in one recipient and reduced in the second recipient . of note , there was no evidence of ventilatory limitation or impaired oxygenation during exercise in these two recipients . although an exaggerated exercise ventilatory response was present , this did not limit exercise performance . this report supports the use of single lung transplantation for the treatment of primary pulmonary hypertension . 
hyperresponsiveness of the extrathoracic airway in patients with captopril-induced cough it has been suggested that cough from captopril may originate from an increased sensitivity of receptors in the extrathoracic airway ( ea ) . to explore this hypothesis , we assessed the responsiveness of ea and bronchi and the cough sensitivity to inhaled histamine in nine hypertensive patients with captopril-induced cough ( group 1 ) during treatment and one month after withdrawal of the drug treatment . nine patients who were asymptomatic while receiving captopril ( group 2 ) and nine patients receiving no current treatment ( group 3 ) served as controls . the ea responsiveness was assessed by using the maximal midinspiratory flow ( mif50 ) as an arbitrary index of ea constriction and was expressed as the histamine concentration causing a 25 percent decrease in mif50 ( pc25mif50 ) . pc15fev1 was the index of bronchial responsiveness and pccough ( dose causing five or more coughs ) was that of cough sensitivity . airway hyperresponsiveness ( ea-hr or bhr ) was diagnosed when pc25mif50 or pc15fev1 were 8 mg/ml or lower . patients with captopril-cough , as compared with controls , had significantly lower values of pc25mif50 , pc15fev1 , and pccough ; ea-hr and bhr were found , respectively , in seven and three of these patients and in none of the control subjects . in all the patients of group 1 , cough and ea-hr resolved after withdrawal of captopril treatment , while bhr persisted in one . pc25mif50 , pc15fev1 , and pccough were all significantly improved . our findings suggest that cough during captopril therapy may originate from receptors in the ea . 
cardiopulmonary assessment in beta-thalassemia major . thalassemia patients succumb at a young age to congestive heart failure . hitherto , attention has been focused on left ventricular function . this report emphasizes right ventricular dysfunction and abnormal pulmonary function . we performed cardiopulmonary evaluation , including echo-doppler , spirometry , co diffusion ( dco ) , and blood gas analyses in 35 patients with homozygous beta-thalassemia maintained by multiple blood transfusions . six autopsy lung specimens were studied . thalassemia patients exhibited pulmonary dysfunction , characterized by hypoxemia ( 85 percent of the patients were outside the 95 percent confidence limits ) , reduced lung volumes ( 51 percent ) , flow rates ( 63 percent ) and dco ( 50 percent ) . right ventricular dysfunction was more prevalent than left ventricular dysfunction . furthermore , 75 percent of the patients had evidence of pulmonary hypertension consistent with more frequent right ventricular rather than left ventricular dysfunction . our findings suggest that in thalassemia patients , complex cardiopulmonary abnormalities precede the final outcome of congestive heart failure . 
the entrainment of low frequency breathing periodicity . it has been predicted by mathematical models of the respiratory control system that the delay between the lung and the respiratory controller may determine the cycle time found in periodic breathing . we examined cycle time of periodic breathing and circulation time in 11 patients known to have circulation delay due to heart failure . we did not find a significant relationship between the amount of periodic breathing and circulation delay , but found a very high correlation between circulation delay and the cycle time of periodic breathing ( r2 = 0.825 ; p = 0.0001 ) . 
abnormal hemodynamic response to valsalva maneuver in patients with atrial septal defect evaluated by doppler echocardiography . hemodynamic responses to the valsalva maneuver were studied in eight healthy subjects ( group 1 ) and eight patients with asd ( group 2 ) using doppler echocardiography . the acute changes of aortic blood flow profiles during the valsalva maneuver were investigated on a basis of beat-to-beat estimation . during the active strain phase ( phase 2 ) , group 1 showed a significant decrease in systolic blood pressure , sv and co with reflex tachycardia ; in group 2 , there was a significant decrease in sv and co with reflex tachycardia , but not systolic blood pressure . the percentage decreases in sv and co in group 2 were significantly less than those in group 1 ( 23 + / - 16 percent vs 48 + / - 10 percent for sv , p less than 0.01 ; 17 + / - 12 percent vs 40 + / - 13 percent for co , p less than 0.05 ) . after release of strain phase ( phase 4 ) , group 1 showed significant reversed changes in systolic blood pressure , sv and heart rate , indicating an overshoot effect which was , however , not observed in group 2 . thus , patients with asd presented abnormal valsalva response which was characterized by the absence of phase 4 overshoot and a less marked phase 2 change . the findings suggest that the decremental effect of impaired venous return on stroke output during active strain may be attenuated by the increased pulmonary blood volume due to left-to-right shunt . in patients with asd , the lesser decrement of co during phase 2 may not provoke sufficient sympathetic activity to induce overshoot response in phase 4 . 
hemodynamic status in critically ill patients with and without acute heart disease . physicians have been urged to reduce the use of the pulmonary artery catheter . however , there are no guidelines to help the clinician make the decision to use or withhold invasive monitoring in the individual patient . this study was designed to examine the accuracy of physician estimates of cardiac function in a spectrum of patients with hemodynamic instability to determine whether differences in accuracy among subgroups would suggest subgroups of patients who could be managed without invasive measurements . physician estimates of cardiac index were found to be sufficiently accurate in patients without acute heart disease that initial management without invasive monitoring may be appropriate in selected cases . however , due to the general inaccuracy of physician estimates , efforts to improve the accuracy of clinical judgments of cardiac function and hemodynamic status should be pursued with vigor in patients both with and without acute cardiac dysfunction . 
the impact of right ventricular infarction on the prevalence of ventricular arrhythmias during acute inferior myocardial infarction . to determine the impact of rv infarction on the prevalence and complexity of ventricular arrhythmias during inferior ami , 57 patients with no prior mi were studied by 24-hour holter monitoring on the first and tenth days of ami . based on radionuclear studies , patients were allocated into two groups : ( 1 ) group a , 21 patients ( 37 percent ) with normal rvef ( greater than or equal to 40 percent ) ; and ( 2 ) group b , 36 patients ( 63 percent ) with depressed rvef ( less than 40 percent ) . there were no significant differences between the groups regarding age and lvef . values of rvef were 47 + / - 6 percent and 31 + / - 6 percent , respectively ( p less than 0.05 ) . the rvef had no influence on the prevalence and complexity of early and late arrhythmias . stratification of patients in group b into two subgroups based on the extent of rv dysfunction did not reveal any differences in the occurrence of all forms of ectopy ( when both groups were matched to group a ) . therefore , patients with inferior ami , with or without rv infarction , have a similar prevalence of arrhythmias . ventricular ectopic beats may be related to the severity and spread of lv involvement , rather than to rv dysfunction . 
diagnosis of tracheal injury in mechanically ventilated premature infants by flexible bronchoscopy . a pilot study . flexible bronchoscopy ( fb ) is uniquely suited for the study of large airway lesions in the ventilated premature infant . however , no standardized clinical scoring system of distal tracheal injury exists and the adverse consequences of fb in ventilated premature infants are not well described . using a prototype olympus fiberoptic ultrathin bronchoscope with a directable tip and an outer diameter of 2.2 mm , we serially scored distal tracheal injury in conventionally ventilated premature infants on the basis of mucosal and obstructive changes observed at bronchoscopy . in addition , we prospectively evaluated the incidence of adverse cardiovascular and pulmonary effects during , immediately after , and within 1 h of fb . we performed 21 fbs in eight conventionally ventilated premature infants with birth weight of 1,239 + / - 438 g and gestational age of 30 + / - 3 weeks . the carina and mainstem bronchi were easily visualized in all infants using the prototype bronchoscope . during the first several days of life , moderate-to-severe distal tracheal mucosal injury occurred frequently , while moderate-to-severe obstructive injury occurred infrequently . distal mucosal injury appeared to improve during the fourth week of life . mild distal obstructive injury began to appear during the second week of life . adverse consequences of fb observed in our patient population included transient hypoxemia and bradycardia during fb , changes in systolic blood pressure immediately and within 1 h after fb , and emesis immediately after fb . serious adverse cardiovascular or pulmonary effects were not observed . we conclude that fb can be performed safely with appropriate monitoring and is a useful tool in the clinical assessment and serial evaluation of distal tracheal injury in ventilated premature infants . we speculate that moderate-to-severe distal tracheal mucosal injury may be associated with the development of later obstructive injury . on the basis of this preliminary study , further prospective investigations of tracheal injury in ventilated premature infants appear to be warranted . 
mechanism of intermittent preexcitation in the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome . the concept of electronically mediated conduction across an inexcitable gap . a man with intermittent preexcitation in the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome is reported . once a sinus impulse was blocked in the accessory pathway , the block ( ie , loss of preexcitation ) was continued for a while until a pp interval reached or exceeded a critical period inducing sudden reappearance of preexcitation . this critical period was considerably longer than the effective refractory period of the accessory pathway . these findings are explained by the use of the concept of electronically mediated conduction across an inexcitable gap in the accessory pathway . it seems that when loss of protection was maintained , the sinus impulse was blocked at the site proximal to the gap , but the impulse passing through the atrioventricular node always reached retrogradely the site distal to the gap , and therefore , the next sinus impulse was blocked again . 
axillosubclavian vein thrombosis produced by retrosternal thyroid . several causes of axillosubclavian vein thrombosis have been described . trauma to the subclavian vein by pacemaker wires or central venous lines as well as the so-called effort thrombosis have been recognized as frequently diagnosed precipitating factors . a patient is herein presented with thrombosis of the subclavian vein caused by a giant substernal thyroid compressing the innominate vein . 
labetalol and mri as initial medical and diagnostic modalities in a marfanoid patient with expanding ascending aortic aneurysm . marfan syndrome is a hereditable disorder of connective tissue that causes several distinct cardiovascular abnormalities , including aortic regurgitation , dissection , and aneurysm . these cardiac manifestations can be identified with echocardiography , computer tomography , and angiography . standard treatment of an acute hypertensive crisis in marfan syndrome uses propranolol and sodium nitroprusside . this patient with marfan syndrome whose case is reported herein presented with chest pain , hypertensive crisis , and aortic insufficiency ; labetalol was used successfully to treat the acute hypertensive crisis and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) was used to differentiate between aortic dissection and an expanding aortic aneurysm . this report is unique in that labetalol was used to control the hypertensive crisis in marfan syndrome and mri was used as the initial diagnostic modality in an emergency setting . 
electrocardiographic j waves after resuscitation from cardiac arrest . a patient was monitored prior to , during , and after cardiac arrest with a holter monitor and an electrocardiograph . the arrest occurred without any premonitory signs on the ecg . at the onset of the arrest , torsades de pointes ventricular tachycardia occurred , which quickly degenerated into ventricular fibrillation . after a successful second defibrillation , the patient developed osborn waves , which subsided within a few minutes . 
septic pulmonary emboli . a rare cause of bilateral pneumothorax in drug abusers . an intravenous drug abuser presented with bilateral pneumothorax . this is a previously unreported ( to our knowledge ) complication of septic pulmonary emboli secondary to right-sided endocarditis . this possibility must be considered in the differential diagnosis of pneumothorax in drug addicts . 
a randomized trial comparing direct current therapy and bipolar diathermy in the outpatient treatment of third-degree hemorrhoids . fifty patients with third-degree hemorrhoids were randomized to receive outpatient treatment with either bipolar diathermy or direct current therapy . direct current therapy was used to treat 26 patients and bipolar diathermy was used to treat 24 patients . twenty patients in each group were successfully treated as judged by resolution of symptoms and shrinkage of hemorrhoidal tissue . both treatments are effective in the outpatient management of large , prolapsing hemorrhoids . bipolar diathermy is less time consuming and better tolerated . 
retroperitoneal air after routine hemorrhoidectomy . report of a case . retroperitoneal air as a complication after routine hemorrhoidectomy has not been reported in the literature . this occurred recently after hemorrhoidectomy in a 34-year-old patient receiving glucocorticoid therapy for rheumatoid arthritis . adverse steroidal effects of wound healing have been well documented . it is believed that steroid-induced tissue changes contributed to the development of this unique complication . 
short-term effect of hepatic arterial versus portal venous reperfusion on energy levels of liver tissue . the hepatic artery and the portal vein blood vary in flow , oxygenation , and hormonal content . it was uncertain which blood supply has a greater effect on the recuperative process of the hepatocytes in the ischemic liver during the initial reperfusion . the ability of the liver cells to restore its energy phosphates is related to the viability of the liver . this study was designed to determine the differences of the high energy phosphate in the liver predicated upon whether reflow was first provided by either the hepatic artery or the portal vein followed by subsequent reperfusion from both vessels . the recovery of atp upon 10 min of only hepatic arterial reperfusion after 15 min of total ischemia was much slower compared to the portal venous reperfusion only . it may be undesirable , therefore , to reperfuse the liver with hepatic arterial blood first immediately after warm liver ischemia . 
cardiac disease in the alcoholic patient . ethanol in acute low doses is believed to be relatively nontoxic to the normal myocardium , despite data indicating low-level contractility impairment . in patients with myocardial disease , or as the serum ethanol concentration is increased to high levels , angina , myocardial infarction , and arrhythmia may be potentiated . chronic ethanol use , at moderate doses , may be protective against coronary artery disease , despite increased rates of hypertension . alcohol consumption at high doses may result in dilated cardiomyopathy and a dismal prognosis . alcohol abuse is associated with increased mortality . 
insulin and hypertension . relationship to obesity and glucose intolerance in pima indians . the relationships among blood pressure , obesity , glucose tolerance , and serum insulin concentration were studied in 2873 pima indians aged 18-92 yr ( mean 37 yr ) . age - and sex-adjusted to the pima population , the prevalence of hypertension ( systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 160 mmhg , diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 95 mmhg , or receiving drug treatment ) was 7.1 % for subjects with normal glucose tolerance compared with 13.0 % for subjects with impaired glucose tolerance ( igt ) and 19.8 % for those with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . the prevalence ratio of hypertension was 1.8 ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] 1.2-2 .5 ) for igt and 2.6 ( 95 % ci 2.0-3 .2 ) for niddm compared with normal glucose tolerance , controlled for age , sex , and body mass index ( bmi ) . in logistic regression analysis , hypertension was positively related to age , male sex , bmi , glucose tolerance , and fasting but not 2-h postload serum insulin concentration . among subjects not taking antihypertensive drugs , however , neither fasting nor 2-h postload serum insulin was significantly related to hypertension . furthermore , in 2033 subjects receiving neither antihypertensive nor antidiabetic drugs , blood pressure was not significantly correlated to fasting insulin concentration , and 2-h postload serum insulin was negatively correlated with diastolic blood pressure . in conclusion , insulin is not significantly related to blood pressure in pima indians not receiving antihypertensive drugs . higher insulin concentrations in drug-treated hypertensive patients might result from the treatment rather than contribute to the pathogenesis of hypertension . thus , these data do not support a major role for insulin in determining the occurrence of hypertension or regulation of blood pressure in pima indians . 
omeprazole in the management of intractable esophageal ulceration following injection sclerotherapy . transient esophageal ulceration is a common finding after sclerotherapy of varices . a small proportion of these ulcers become chronic and resistant to conventional therapy . such chronic ulcers have been associated with pain , stricture formation , and recurrent hemorrhage . the use of omeprazole , a proton pump inhibitor , was examined in the current study in the treatment of 10 patients ( 6 women , 4 men ; age range , 27-86 years ) with cirrhosis ( pbc , 4 ; sclerosing cholangitis , 2 ; chronic active liver disease , 2 ; alcohol , 1 ; and cryptogenic , 1 ) who developed an esophageal ulcer after a mean of 13 ( range , 8-21 ) sessions of sclerotherapy . the ulcers had been present for 3-54 months despite prolonged treatment with high-dose h2-receptor antagonists and sucralfate . in each case one or more complications had occurred : severe pain in 3 , stricture formation in 4 , and recurrent hemorrhage in 7 cases . after an 8-week course of omeprazole , 40 mg daily , endoscopy confirmed complete healing of the ulceration in all 10 cases with symptom resolution . in 2 cases the ulcer recurred , with associated bleeding within 6 weeks of discontinuing the treatment in 1 patient . both cases responded to repeat therapy . these results confirm the efficacy of omeprazole for postsclerotherapy ulceration and imply that acid-pepsin has a role in perpetuating such ulcers . 
fulminant hepatitis after lisinopril administration . a case of fulminant hepatitis in a patient taking lisinopril for 5 weeks for arterial hypertension is reported . jaundice , fever , myalgia , and marked increase in serum aminotransferase activities occurred after 2 weeks of treatment . continuation of lisinopril administration for 3 weeks after the onset of jaundice was associated with the development of grade iii encephalopathy and a marked decrease in prothrombin and proaccelerin levels . this case strongly suggests that lisinopril may induce acute hepatitis and that continuation of the treatment after the onset of jaundice can lead to life-threatening hepatic failure . 
the role of endoscopic injection sclerotherapy in the management of bleeding peristomal varices . peristomal varices usually occur in patients with enterostomies who develop portal hypertension , and represent a cause of recurrent or intractable gastrointestinal bleeding . treatment options for such bleeding include surgical ligation of varices , stoma revision with devascularization , injection sclerotherapy , portacaval shunt , or liver transplantation . we reviewed the records of seven patients with peristomal varices , who were followed for a mean of 17 months after diagnosis . fourteen episodes of clinically significant peristomal bleeding occurred in six patients . surgical ligation of varices was ineffective in controlling bleeding in two of three patients , although stoma revision with devascularization was temporarily effective in two other patients . injection sclerotherapy , used in three patients , effectively controlled acute bleeding without serious complications or need for surgery . definitive treatment for peristomal bleeding ( portacaval shunt or liver transplantation ) has prevented any further bleeding in three patients for a mean of 8 months after surgery . 
arterial blood oxygen desaturation in infants and children during upper gastrointestinal endoscopy . arterial blood oxygen desaturation and abnormal electrocardiographic changes have been reported in adults undergoing upper gastrointestinal endoscopy . we studied 32 infants and children less than 12 years of age using pulse oximetry and continuous electrocardiography before , during , and after upper gastrointestinal endoscopy performed under intravenous sedation . sinus tachycardia was the most common electrocardiographic change , and no clinically significant electrocardiographic abnormalities were induced by the procedure . desaturation to less than or equal to 90 % was found in 37.5 % of the patients and was most commonly noted during the endoscopy procedure and in patients with cardiopulmonary disease . the desaturation was unpredictable because there was no correlation between desaturation and medication , tolerance to the procedure , weight , or age of the child . some patients who subjectively appeared to tolerate the procedure well had significant desaturation . the use of pulse oximetry should be considered for all children undergoing upper gastrointestinal endoscopy . 
atrial fibrillation in the elderly : management update . non-valvular atrial fibrillation is associated with a markedly increased risk of embolic stroke in elderly persons . evidence is accumulating that anticoagulation with warfarin or aspirin may be effective in reducing this risk . 
hepatic vascular disease and portal hypertension in polycythemia vera and agnogenic myeloid metaplasia : a clinicopathological study of 145 patients examined at autopsy . the pathogenesis of portal hypertension arising in patients with myeloproliferative disorders has been difficult to understand because liver biopsy findings often show minimal changes . it has been suggested that increased splenic blood flow , hepatic infiltration with hematopoietic cells or sinusoidal fibrosis may be important . we have reviewed the autopsy findings and clinical histories of 97 patients with polycythemia vera and 48 patients with agnogenic myeloid metaplasia collected from three institutions and from the polycythemia vera study group . cirrhosis was present in seven patients , one of whom had bleeding varices . esophageal varices were present clinically in 10 patients without cirrhosis ( seven polycythemia and three agnogenic myeloid metaplasia ) . all of these patients had lesions in small or medium-sized portal veins and four had stenosis of the extrahepatic portal vein with histology compatible with organized thrombi . nodular regenerative hyperplasia occurred in 14.6 % and correlated closely with the presence of portal vein lesions . thirty patients had greater than 500 ml of ascites , seven of these patients also had varices and six of them had hepatic vein thrombosis . ascites also correlated with hepatic vein disease confined to small intrahepatic branches . no correlation was seen between hepatic hematopoietic infiltration and signs of portal hypertension . we conclude that esophageal varices are common and are almost always associated with portal vein lesions visible by light microscopy . these portal vein lesions , and the secondary effects of nodular regenerative hyperplasia and portal hypertension , are most likely a result of portal vein thrombosis in patients with myeloproliferative disorders . 
characteristics of biliary lipid metabolism after liver transplantation . biliary lipid metabolism was studied after 10 liver transplantations with continuous drainage of bile . within 3 wk after transplantation , the new liver produced bile with concentrations of biliary lipids in agreement with those reported for t-tube bile in cholecystectolized nontransplanted subjects . although changes in biliary lipid composition occurred swiftly in response to various forms of disturbed liver function , they did not provide substantially more information than did standard serum tests or simple measurements of bile flow in most patients . secretion rates of phospholipids and cholesterol were found to be completely bile acid dependent . for each micromole of bile acids , 0.22 and 0.08 mumol of phospholipids and cholesterol were secreted , respectively . when bile flow was related to bile acid output , a linear relationship was found ( r = 0.89 ) , with a positive intercept indicating a bile acid-independent bile flow of approximately 44 microliters/min . analysis of individual bile acids showed almost exclusively primary bile acids . the relative proportion of chenodeoxycholic acid was more prominent during the first days after transplantation . different explanations for this are discussed . 
close correlation of intra-abdominal fat accumulation to hypertension in obese women . the relation between intra-abdominal visceral fat accumulation and blood pressure was investigated in 67 obese women ( mean body mass index , 33.6 + / - 3.1 ; average age , 50 + / - 11 years ) . as an index of intra-abdominal fat accumulation , the ratio of the intra-abdominal visceral fat area to subcutaneous fat area was determined using a computed tomographic section at the level of the umbilicus . when the obese subjects were divided into a hypertensive group and a normotensive group , the ratio of the intra-abdominal visceral fat area to subcutaneous fat area in the hypertensive group was significantly higher ( 0.53 + / - 0.33 versus 0.29 + / - 0.12 , p less than 0.01 ) . significant correlations between the ratio of intra-abdominal visceral fat area to subcutaneous fat area and systolic blood pressure ( r = 0.62 , p less than 0.001 ) and diastolic blood pressure ( r = 0.53 , p less than 0.001 ) also were found . however , no significant difference existed in either the body mass index or the waist-to-hip circumference ratio between the hypertensive and normotensive groups . plasma renin activity , aldosterone , epinephrine , and norepinephrine levels were not significantly different between the two groups . moreover , the correlation between the ratio of the intra-abdominal visceral fat area to subcutaneous fat area ratio and blood pressure was found independent of age and body mass index by multiple regression analyses . we conclude that intra-abdominal fat accumulation itself may play an important role in the pathogenesis of hypertension in obesity . 
early 24-hour blood pressure elevation in normotensive subjects with parental hypertension subjects with a family history of parental hypertension are reported to have a slightly higher office blood pressure in the prehypertensive stage . whether this reflects a hyperreactivity to blood pressure measurement or a more permanent blood pressure elevation , however , is not known . in the present study , blood pressure was measured in 15 normotensive subjects whose parents are both hypertensive ( fh + + ) , 15 normotensive subjects with one hypertensive parent ( fh ( + ) - ) , and 15 normotensive subjects whose parents are not hypertensive ( fh -- ) ; among the three groups , subjects were matched for age , sex , and body mass index . the measurements were made in the office during a variety of laboratory stressors and during a prolonged resting period , and for a 24-hour period ( ambulatory blood pressure monitoring ) . office blood pressure was higher in the fh + + group than in the fh -- group ( p less than 0.05 ) . the pressor responses to laboratory stressors were similar in the two groups , but the fh + + group had higher prolonged resting and 24-hour blood pressure than the fh -- group ; the difference was always significant ( p less than 0.05 ) for systolic blood pressure . the fh + + group also had a greater left ventricular mass index ( on echocardiographic examination ) than the fh -- group ( p less than 0.01 ) . the blood pressure values and echocardiographic values of the fh ( + ) - group tended to be between those of the other two groups . thus , the higher blood pressure shown by individuals in the prehypertensive stage with a family history of parental hypertension does not reflect a hyperreactivity to stress but an early permanent blood pressure elevation . 
calcitropic hormones , platelet calcium , and blood pressure in essential hypertension . plasma ionized calcium , platelet cytosolic calcium ( using the fura-2 method in gel-filtered platelets ) , parathyroid hormone ( both the intact hormone and a midmolecule portion ) , calcitriol , and calcidiol were measured in 19 untreated male patients with essential hypertension and 19 age-matched normotensive male research subjects . mean levels of platelet cytosolic calcium , parathyroid hormone , calcitriol , and calcidiol were all significantly higher , whereas plasma ionized calcium was significantly lower , in the hypertensive group compared with the normotensive group . both platelet cytosolic calcium and intact parathyroid hormone were positively correlated with mean arterial pressure ( r = 0.58 , p less than 0.001 ; r = 0.54 , p less than 0.001 , respectively ) , whereas plasma ionized calcium was inversely correlated with mean arterial pressure ( r = -0.60 , p less than 0.001 ) in the combined group of all study subjects . all three of these correlations were significant in the hypertensive group alone but not in the normotensive group alone . when analyzed with plasma ionized calcium , body mass index , serum calcitriol , and calcidiol in a multivariable regression model , the significance of the partial regressions of platelet cytosolic calcium and parathyroid hormone with mean arterial pressure persisted . intact parathyroid hormone was positively correlated to platelet cytosolic calcium ( r = 0.43 , p less than 0.01 ) and plasma ionized calcium was inversely correlated to platelet cytosolic calcium ( r = -0.44 , p less than 0.01 ) . these results confirm previous reports of disturbances of calcium metabolism in essential hypertension and suggest that the elevated platelet cytosolic calcium observed in essential hypertension may be linked to one or more of these alterations of calcium metabolism . 
effects of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and of hydralazine on endothelial function in hypertensive rats the function of the endothelium is impaired in hypertension . in spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shr ) , acetylcholine-induced relaxation is decreased and serotonin-induced constriction is increased . the goal of our study was to evaluate the effect of a long-term treatment with cilazapril , a new angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor , or hydralazine , a vasodilator , on the endothelium-dependent responses in aorta of shr . wistar-kyoto rats were used as normotensive reference . isolated aortic rings with or without endothelium were suspended in organ chambers . the rings with intact endothelium were contracted with norepinephrine . acetylcholine-induced relaxation was markedly enhanced by cilazapril treatment . the tension achieved at maximal relaxation was 8 + / - 4 % of norepinephrine contraction in the cilazapril-treated shr versus 55 + / - 5 % in the untreated shr ( p less than 0.001 ) . hydralazine had no significant effect . the effect of serotonin was also markedly modified by cilazapril . in untreated shr , serotonin induced the release of a vasoconstrictor substance by the endothelium as assessed by the ratio of maximal tension induced by serotonin in rings with endothelium over maximal tension in rings without endothelium , which was greater than 1 . this ratio was reversed in cilazapril-treated shr but not in hydralazine-treated shr . captopril had effects similar to cilazapril . finally , evaluation of carotid arteries showed that cilazapril also prevented morphological changes of the intima in shr ( i.e. , infiltration by mononuclear cells ) . we conclude that angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors prevent the functional and morphological alterations in endothelium that are found in hypertension and speculate that this action might participate in their antihypertensive effect . 
enalapril and renal injury in spontaneously hypertensive rats . rats of the spontaneously hypertensive strain develop kidney damage that resembles the nephropathy seen in some cases of human essential hypertension . previous studies with a triple drug antihypertensive regimen indicated that proteinuria and glomerular histopathology in spontaneously hypertensive rats might develop despite long-term effective control of systemic blood pressure . to investigate further the relation between hypertension and kidney disease , a group of spontaneously hypertensive rats were treated with enalapril at 15 weeks of age . blood pressure , protein excretion , and kidney function were measured in those rats at regular intervals during the next year and a half and were compared with untreated spontaneously hypertensive rats and the normotensive wistar-kyoto parent strain . kidney tissue samples from all three groups , collected at autopsy , were stained by immunohistochemical and conventional methods to assess the relative severity and nature of kidney damage . although enalapril therapy was completely effective in controlling the blood pressure of spontaneously hypertensive rats , it only postponed the onset of kidney disease . enalapril-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats eventually exhibited albuminuria as severe as that found in hypertensive rats . kidney vessel pathology was completely prevented with enalapril , but the abnormal accumulation of mononuclear cells in tubulointerstitial and periglomerular sites was the same as in untreated spontaneously hypertensive rats . we have concluded that elevated protein excretion in rats of the spontaneously hypertensive rat strain is not a secondary consequence of systemic hypertension . structural abnormalities of renal vessels also do not appear to contribute significantly to the pathogenesis of albuminuria in spontaneously hypertensive rats . other explanations must be sought to account for the close link between spontaneous hypertension and kidney damage in this animal model . the clear dissociation of kidney disease from systemic hypertension exhibited by spontaneously hypertensive rats may also be relevant for human disease . 
effects of salt , race , and hypertension on reactivity to stressors . blood pressure and heart rate reactivity to a psychological stressor and to a cold pressor test were examined in a group of 51 normotensive and 37 unmedicated hypertensive men . all were studied twice , once while the participants were maintained on a moderately high salt ( 200 meq sodium/day ) diet and once while the participants were maintained on an extremely low salt ( 10 meq sodium/day ) diet . dietary salt had no effect on blood pressure or heart rate responses to the two stressors . the systolic and diastolic responses of the white participants to the psychological stressor were greater than those of the black participants ( both p less than 0.05 ) ; however , there was no difference between blacks and whites in reactivity to the cold pressor challenge . as compared with the normotensive group , the hypertensive group reacted to the psychological stressor with increased responses in systolic blood pressure , diastolic blood pressure , and heart rate ( all p less than 0.05 ) . the hypertensive group also hyperresponded in terms of the systolic pressure response to the cold pressor task ( p less than 0.05 ) . plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine responses were not significantly different across the two diets , races , or diagnoses . 
pressor systems in hypertension and congestive heart failure . role of vasopressin [ clinical conference ] elevated peripheral vascular resistance , which characterizes hypertension and congestive heart failure ( the latter regardless of absolute blood pressure level ) is maintained to a large extent by the combined effects of three major neurohormonal pressor mechanisms : the renin-angiotensin system , the sympathoadrenal system , and arginine vasopressin . blockade of one of these mechanisms may lead to compensatory stimulation of the others , thus offsetting in part the hemodynamic benefits of a specific intervention . combination therapy , designed to attack all three systems ( with use of an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor , a sympathetic blocker such as clonidine , and an antagonist of the vasopressor action of vasopressin ) , may help in the treatment of such cases . to illustrate this strategy , two experimental studies , one case of malignant hypertension , and one case of congestive heart failure are presented . 
pivotal role of early and sustained infarct vessel patency in patients with acute myocardial infarction . thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction unequivocally has improved short - and long-term mortality . the fundamental goal of therapy for evolving myocardial infarction is early and sustained infarct vessel recanalization . the mechanisms linking an open artery with improved long-term survival and other clinical outcomes are presented with use of data from extensive clinical trials . 
clinical controversies surrounding thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction . the treatment of acute myocardial infarction has changed tremendously in the past decade because thrombolytic therapy has become the treatment of choice for the patient with acute myocardial infarction . although many issues have been resolved , several controversial issues remain unresolved . this article addresses thrombolytic agents in terms of their superiority in achieving infarct vessel patency and mortality reduction as well as the role of thrombolysis in patients who present with chest pain of greater than 6 hours ' duration , who are elderly , and who have an inferior infarction . 
role of angioplasty in myocardial infarction management strategies : a review . the role of angioplasty in acute myocardial infarction has been extensively studied in the past few years . although angioplasty in some circumstances can be the primary reperfusion intervention , logistic problems and the excellent results of intravenous thrombolytic therapy have resulted in postlytic angioplasty being the preferred use of this interventional strategy . clinical trials of this strategy have not supported its routine use , however , and a much more selective application of postthrombolytic coronary artery dilation is advocated at this time . 
effects of heparin versus saline solution on intermittent infusion device irrigation . the purpose of this study was to compare the effectiveness of 1 ml of 0.9 % sodium chloride with 10 units of heparin in 1 ml sodium chloride solution , both containing benzyl alcohol , in maintaining patency and reducing the incidence of phlebitis in patients with intermittent infusion devices . the subjects ( n = 32 ) were randomly assigned in a double-blind experimental design . repeated-measures analysis of variance revealed no significant difference between the groups in phlebitis or patency variables . the results from this controlled study would suggest that 0.9 % sodium chloride is as effective as 10 units of heparin in sodium chloride solution in maintaining intermittent infusion device patency and preventing phlebitis . 
effects of supplemental oxygen administration in an infant with pulmonary artery hypertension . in patients with pulmonary disease , pulmonary artery hypertension often occurs as a result of pulmonary artery vasoconstriction , primarily from hypoxia and alveolar hypotension . in this report we describe the hemodynamic effects of breathing supplemental oxygen in a child with bronchopulmonary dysplasia and pulmonary artery hypertension . these hemodynamic effects include an improvement in oxygenation , an increase in systemic vascular resistance , and a decrease in the pulmonary vascular resistance . as a direct result of these changes in vascular resistances , alterations of heart rate , cardiac index , stroke volume , aortic pressure , oxygen consumption , and pulmonary artery pressure have been shown to occur . oxygen is widely used to treat many physiologic conditions . however , during the administration of supplemental oxygen , rarely do we recognize the hemodynamic changes associated with its use . these hemodynamic effects must be clearly understood and appreciated before oxygen administration in any clinical situation . 
effects of anxiety on family members of patients with cardiac disease learning cardiopulmonary resuscitation . the effects of anxiety on learning cardiopulmonary resuscitation ( cpr ) by family members of patients with cardiac disease was examined . family members of hospitalized patients ( n = 17 ) , family members of nonhospitalized patients ( n = 12 ) , and a control group ( n = 21 ) all took one of nine heart saver programs in which cpr was taught and performance evaluated . subjects took the state anxiety inventory three times : immediately before the program , immediately after the performance test , and 2 months after completion of the program . family members of hospitalized patients had significantly higher before-program anxiety scores than the other groups . this difference was not present immediately after the program or 2 months later . family members of hospitalized patients showed a significant decline in anxiety over the three testing times . these outcomes support the benefit of teaching cpr to this group . 
effect of activity on supraventricular tachyarrhythmias after coronary artery bypass surgery . the purpose of this study was to evaluate patient activities , professional staff activities , backrest position , and diurnal variations as factors that may contribute to the onset of supraventricular tachyarrhythmias ( svt ) after coronary artery bypass surgery ( cabg ) . the activities surrounding the recognition of first-onset svt , as well as preoperative and postoperative data and patient characteristics were examined in 249 patients having cabg . one hundred seventy-three patients qualified for the study ; 28 % of these patients ( n = 49 ) had svt . no statistical difference was found between the subjects with svt and those without svt when sex , cross-clamp time , creatine kinase peak , hemoglobin and hematocrit levels , and number of bypasses were examined . patients who had svt were older than those who did not : 64.8 years for the svt group versus 60.7 years for the non-svt group ( p less than 0.01 ) . svt was rare in the first 24 hours after surgery , whereas 60 % of the cases occurred during the next 48 hours , without significant diurnal variation : mean time of onset was 11:50 am . no particular activity of the patient or nurse influenced the onset of svt during the postoperative period in this group . 
left ventricular asynchrony in patients with pulmonary hypertension . left ventricular regional wall motion was evaluated in 11 patients with pulmonary hypertension and 18 control subjects . all 11 patients had secondary pulmonary hypertension and less than 20 % measured diameter stenosis in any vessel . this study utilizes a video-intensity-based frame-by-frame computerized technique . all pulmonary hypertensive patients showed early diastolic asynchrony in the anterior or apical regions that lasted 100-200 ms. the size of the abnormal area varied from 2 to 20 % of the ventricular silhouette . four patients also showed systolic abnormalities . no abnormalities were detected in the control group . the cause of the asynchrony detected in pulmonary hypertension is probably due to interventricular interaction caused by pressure gradients across the septum . 
effect of ischemia reperfusion or hypoxia reoxygenation on lung vascular permeability and resistance . the effect of ischemia reperfusion or hypoxia reoxygenation on pulmonary vascular permeability and resistance was studied in 25 isolated blood-perfused dog lungs . vascular permeability , assessed by determining filtration coefficient ( kf ) , and vascular resistances were measured at the beginning and end of the experiment . ischemia reperfusion was produced by occluding blood flow to the lung for 3 h and reperfusing for 1 h , whereas hypoxia reoxygenation was obtained by ventilating the lung with 95 % n2-5 % co2 for 3 h and then ventilating with 95 % o2-5 % co2 for 1 h with no interruption of perfusion . there was a significant increase in kf in both ischemia reperfusion and hypoxia reoxygenation groups ( 51 and 85 % , respectively ) , and total vascular resistance increased greatly in both groups ( 386 and 532 % , respectively ) . two additional groups were also studied in which the ischemia reperfusion or hypoxia reoxygenation lungs were pretreated with allopurinol ( 20 micrograms/ml ) . the kf did not significantly increase in either the allopurinol ischemia reperfusion or the allopurinol hypoxia reoxygenation groups ( 22 and 6 % , respectively ) . however , total vascular resistance significantly increased in both groups ( 239 and 224 % , respectively ) . although vascular permeability is modestly increased by both ischemia reperfusion and hypoxia reoxygenation , the predominant change in these conditions is the increased vascular resistance , which predominantly affects the postcapillary resistance and would result in a greater tendency for edema to develop in these slightly damaged lungs . allopurinol , which inhibits xanthine oxidase , attenuated the permeability changes in both groups and may be useful in preventing ischemia reperfusion injury in certain conditions . 
muscle oxidative capacity and work performance after training under local leg ischemia . healthy young men executed supine one-legged cycle training four times per week for 4 wk with legs and the cycle ergometer inside a pressure chamber , the opening of which was sealed by a rubber membrane at the level of the crotch . each training session started by training one leg under ischemic conditions induced by increased chamber pressure ( 50 mmhg ) at the highest intensity tolerable for 45 min . then the other leg was trained with the same power profile but normal atmospheric chamber pressure . before and after the training period , both legs executed one-legged exercise tests under both normal and increased chamber pressure and muscle biopsies were taken from the vastus lateralis . ischemic training increased performance more than normal training , the difference being greater for exercise executed under ischemic conditions . the difference in performance increase between the legs was paralleled by a greater muscle citrate synthase activity in the ischemically than in the normally trained leg . 
hypertension after operative correction of club-foot deformity . severe hypertension occurred as a postoperative complication after correction of a club-foot deformity in four children ( seven feet ) who were between the ages of two and three years and had no history of hypertension . the hypertension subsided slowly after administration of antihypertensive medications or more rapidly after release of the correction that had been obtained operatively . 
total knee arthroplasty in obese patients . we examined 182 patients ( 257 knees ) who had had a total knee arthroplasty two to five six years earlier . the patients were grouped into five weight classes . eighteen patients ( twenty-seven knees ) were considered moderately obese and twelve patients ( twenty-seven knees ) , severely obese . the results in all but four knees were rated excellent or good . one patient needed a revision procedure for late infection , and the result was rated poor . three results were rated fair . there was no discernible difference in the over-all scores among the five weight groups . however , 30 per cent of the knees of the moderately and severely obese patients had patellofemoral symptoms , whereas the incidence was 14 per cent in the other groups ( p less than 0.03 ) . no clear-cut association was found between obesity and either thrombophlebitis or complications related to the wound . 
recent advance in treatment of stanford type a aortic dissection . during the period between november 1986 and november 1988 , 13 consecutive patients with stanford type a aortic dissection ( 8 acute and 5 chronic ) were treated as follows : ( 1 ) urgent operation for cases with pericardial tamponade or severe heart failure , ( 2 ) initial medical treatment followed by elective operation for acute but stable cases or chronic cases , and ( 3 ) routine use of open distal anastomosis or selective cerebral perfusion . one patient died during medical treatment : 5 patients were operated on emergently . the remaining 2 acute and 5 chronic cases were operated on electively . there were no operative deaths , neurological disturbances , or late deaths . it is suggested that acute dissection of the ascending aorta requires immediate surgical intervention , especially when the entry is in the ascending aorta . on the other hand , it is also suggested that one could avoid emergency operations in selected cases with retrograde extension of the aortic dissection . 
surgical treatment of aneurysm or dissection involving the ascending aorta and aortic arch , utilizing circulatory arrest and retrograde cerebral perfusion . recently we replaced the ascending aorta and aortic arch in 8 patients with aneurysm or dissection , using profound hypothermic circulatory arrest with retrograde cerebral perfusion . there were no operative deaths . open aortic anastomosis facilitated repair of the aortic arch without clamping the arch tributaries , and embolism due to particulate debris from clamping of the arch vessels was eliminated . retrograde cerebral perfusion during profound hypothermic circulatory arrest is a simplified technique that may protect the brain . this method offers advantages over previously described methods , particularly in obviating dissection of the arch tributaries and the clamping thereof , and in protecting the central nervous system . 
efficacy of transesophageal echocardiography as a perioperative monitor in patients undergoing cardiovascular surgery . analysis of 149 consecutive studies . to evaluate the usefulness of transesophageal echocardiography as a perioperative monitor in patients undergoing cardiovascular surgery , 149 consecutive patients were studied since 1985 . left ventricular function was assessed by measurement of left ventricular dimension and ejection fraction in patients with valvular disease . this monitoring was useful in detecting the changes in left ventricular performance in patients with volume overload and in managing patients in the early postoperative period . cardiac tamponade was clearly demonstrated before changes in electrocardiogram and hemodynamic data . in 27 patients , transesophageal color doppler echocardiography was used to confirm that there was no residual regurgitation immediately after valvular reconstructive surgery . transesophageal color doppler echocardiography was also useful in detecting the entry of false lumen before surgery in 7 patients with dissecting aortic aneurysm . there were no unsuccessful introductions , no traumatic or thermal injuries , 18 patients ( 12.1 % ) with hoarseness and 5 patients ( 3.4 % ) with transient arrhythmia . in conclusion , transesophageal echocardiography provides a good imaging window to the heart and great vessels perioperatively . this expedient , safe informative imaging method can be used more routinely in patients during surgery . 
the effect of enoximone and dobutamine on hemodynamic performance after open heart surgery . a clinical comparison . in a prospective , randomized study the phosphodiesterase inhibitor enoximone was compared to dobutamine after open heart surgery . in either group 25 patients were treated with enoximone and dobutamine , respectively , beginning immediately after weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass until 4 hours postoperatively . the drug was administered as a continuous infusion of 5 micrograms/min/kg body weight . under enoximone a significant increase of cardiac output [ enoximone ( e ) : + 100 % ; dobutamine ( d ) : + 38 % ] and a significant decrease of pulmonary vascular resistance ( e : -34 % , d : +65 % ) and of total systemic vascular resistance ( e : -59 % , d : -7 % ) was achieved . systemic blood pressure and heart rate were not different . side effects were not observed . enoximone proved to be safe and superior to dobutamine in low cardiac output states after open heart surgery . 
valvular and coronary surgery in renal transplant patients . the authors report aortic valvular replacement ( avr ) and coronary artery bypass graft surgery ( cabg ) successfully performed in two renal transplant patients . the postoperative blood urea and creatinine levels were comparable to the preoperative values . the first patient underwent isolated avr . the second patient had an initial avr combined with cabg followed two years later by a further avr for prosthetic dysfunction . for many reasons , coronary artery ( cad ) and valvular diseases are not uncommon in renal transplant patients . cardiac surgery is feasible without impairment of the renal function provided some precautions are taken , ie good mean perfusion pressure during cardiopulmonary bypass ( cpb ) , adequate volume replacement , and selected use of mannitol and dopamine . 
successful surgical treatment of subaortic stenosis caused by an accessory mitral valve . a 22-month-old boy with subaortic stenosis was found to have relatively mature mitral valve tissue beneath the aortic valve , associated with a hypertrophic and prominent interventricular septum . this tissue caused obstruction of the left ventricular outflow tract and resulted in a pressure gradient of 70 mmhg between the aorta and the left ventricle . surgical treatment was successfully performed to excise the tissue and part of the hypertrophic ventricular septum . results of microscopic examination of the resected specimen are shown and discussed . 
an unusual late complication following surgical repair of tetralogy of fallot . a case is presented of extrusion of right ventricular outflow tract patch material through a mediastino-cutaneous fistula occurring five years after repair of tetralogy of fallot . the focus of the mediastinal infection was an infected epicardial pacemaker electrode placed at the time of initial surgery . subsequent echocardiographic studies showed minimal right ventricular outflow tract or pulmonary arterial dilatation , and , with no further surgery , the child is well after two and a half years follow-up . 
acute dissection of the internal mammary artery : a fatal complication of coronary artery bypass grafting . a case of acute traumatic dissection of the right internal mammary artery is presented in a patient who had both imas grafted for recurrent angina 10 years after initial vein coronary revascularisation . the event was mistaken for spasm , but because of severe circulatory collapse no time was available to treat the patient appropriately . the purpose of this report is to facilitate the early recognition and avoidance of this potentially fatal complication . 
intraoperative assessment of cerebral ischemia during carotid surgery . one of the problems in carotid surgery is the intraoperative detection of brain ischemia . none of the methods ( eeg ; stump pressure ) applied so far have been successful . branston et al . ( 1974 ) found a threshold relationship between cortical cerebral blood flow and cortical somatosensory evoked potential ( sep ) . as the local blood flow fell below about 16 ml/100 g/min a progressive reduction occurred in the amplitude of the cortical evoked potential ( n20/p25 ) , implying a fundamental failure of neuronal function in the somatosensory cortex . we have monitored cortical sep ( somatosensory evoked potential ) during 734 cea 's ( carotid endarterectomies ) in order to find an index of risk of incipient cerebral ischemia during carotid cross-clamping , to determine the need for shunting and the causes of early irreversible neurologic deficits . in 59 cases evaluation of sep was not possible because of technical difficulties . during 586 cea 's no alteration of sep occurred . however , 4 patients had an immediate postoperative neurologic deficit , while the sep remained normal . abnormal sep occurred in 89 cases and in 6 of these an irreversible loss of sep was seen . these patients awoke with a new neurologic deficit . we found a reversible abnormal sep in 83 cases . reversible changes of sep occurred mainly during carotid clamping . the diagnostic sensitivity of intraoperative sep monitoring in predicting neurologic outcome was 60 % with a specificity of 100 % . 
reappraisal of surgical treatment of traumatic transection of the thoracic aorta . since crawford 's report in 1973 , repair of traumatic transection of the thoracic aorta without shunt or bypass has emerged as a popular technique which simplifies the operation and avoids use of heparin . growing evidence , however , indicates that the incidence of paraplegia is higher with this method and may outweigh its advantages . with this in mind , we have examined our experience with 40 patients who underwent repair of aortic transection from 1975-1988 . the operated patients in our series all survived . fourteen were repaired using some type of bypass or shunt , none of whom developed paraplegia . the remaining 26 patients were repaired without a shunt and 9 ( 34.6 % ) developed paraplegia or paraparesis ( p less than 0.02 ) . paraplegia was related to aortic occlusion time ( p less than 0.002 ) . it did not occur in 11 patients with times less than 27 minutes , but happened in 2 of 8 patients with times between 28 and 35 minutes and in all 7 patients with clamp times over 35 minutes . these data suggest that shunt or bypass should be used in most cases of aortic transection . 
inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms . in a series of 517 operations for abdominal aortic aneurysm from 1971 to 1988 there were 45 cases ( 8.7 % ) with an inflammatory aneurysm with a typical thick glistening whitish fibrous layer . almost two-third of the patients had rather severe chronic or acute progressive pain in the abdomen , the back or the flank . unilateral ( 7 ) or bilateral ( 2 ) hydronephrosis due to ureteral compression occurred in 9 patients ( 20 % ) . a diagnosis of inflammatory aneurysm was made preoperatively only in 10 patients . in 8 of the 9 patients with hydronephrosis ureterolysis was done , unilaterally ( 6 ) or bilaterally ( 2 ) . after ureterolysis all had complete resolution of the hydronephrosis . preoperative diagnostic methods are excretory urography , showing medial deviation , ultrasonography and ct-scanning of the abdominal aorta . all patients with an inflammatory aneurysm should undergo aortic replacement to prevent rupture and achieve pain relief . ureterolysis in cases of hydronephrosis is strongly recommended and may be performed safely and with excellent results . 
thrombectomy for late graft limb occlusion : our experience in 182 consecutive cases . late occlusion of an aortofemoral bypass graft is usually caused by fibrointimal hyperplasia or progressive atherosclerosis . several surgical approaches have been advocated in order to minimize the operative risk , to correct the impaired inflow and to provide a satisfactory outflow . in the last 16 years , in the institute of vascular surgery and angiology of the university of milan , we have operated upon 182 consecutive thrombosed grafts . inflow was restored by performing a graft limb thrombectomy using a fogarty balloon catheter and simultaneously employing an endarterectomy ring stripper to dislodge tenaciously adherent fibrinous material and thrombotic plug . as the superficial femoral artery was generally occluded , usually a good outflow was achieved by profundaplasty in 101 cases ( 55.5 % ) or direct bypass ( interposition graft ) , to a more distal segment of the profunda femoris artery in 55 cases ( 30.2 % ) . concomitant popliteal or tibial revascularization was done in the remaining 26 cases ( 14.3 % ) when pre-operative or intra-operative findings suggested an inadequate collateral network through the profunda femoris artery . early re-occlusion , which occurred in 14 cases ( 7.6 % ) , generally due to insufficient outflow , was corrected by additional intervention in 7 cases ( 3.8 % ) , while 7 legs were amputated for extensive atherosclerotic disease . six patients died giving a mortality rate of 3.3 % . this low rate in a high risk population is probably related to our policy of operating under loco-regional anaesthesia . long term results , with a patency rate of 62.0 % at 3 years and 60.2 % at 5 years ( life table method ) , prove that this operation is a durable procedure for correction of graft limb thrombosis . 
assessment of major venous anomalies by computerized tomography . congenital anomalies of major venous structures are not common but their identification and relative position , particularly in relation to an abdominal aortic aneurysm , are of significant value in planning and conducting aortic operations . computed tomography ( ct ) has become a common method of preoperative evaluation of aortic disease . its reliability in providing accurate information regarding aneurysmal size , configuration , and extension , as well as the presence of intraluminal thrombus and involvement of the renal and iliac arteries , has been demonstrated . simultaneous visualization of the major adjacent venous structures with the use of contrast enhancement is obtained , but anatomic variants can be overlooked because they are commonly subtle and considered incidental . the preoperative diagnosis of these venous abnormalities is significant to the vascular surgeon . such information can be accurately and reliably acquired with the present ct techniques without the need for further diagnostic studies . 
aneurysmal dilatation in saphenous vein bypass grafts . three patients are reported who developed aneurysmal degeneration of a saphenous vein arterial bypass graft . all three had hypercholesterolemia and two had marked elevation of triglycerides . one bypass was for occlusive disease and two for popliteal aneurysm . there was a long lag , 3 to 7 years between graft implantation and aneurysmal degeneration . the pathology was similar for all three cases with lipid laden macrophages , loss of elastic lamina , and other atherosclerotic changes in the vein wall . while atheromatous changes and aneurysm formation in saphenous vein bypass grafts are rare , this may occur especially in patients with hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia . careful and prolonged follow-up plus vigorous management of the hyperlipidemic state is mandatory in these patients . 
primary varicose veins : topographic and hemodynamic correlations . this study was conducted to correlate the clinical presentations of uncomplicated primary varicose veins with the topographic and anatomic source of reflux ( escape points ) . one-hundred sixty-three patients with primary varicose veins ( 144 females , 19 males ; 96 unilateral , 67 bilateral ) in 230 involved limbs were examined . the origin and extent of venous reflux was traced with doppler ultrasound . three distinct groups were recognized . group i. typical saphenous varicosities with junctional escapes occurred in 164 ( 71.3 % ) . sapheno-femoral junction ( sfj ) incompetence in 147 , and sapheno-popliteal junction ( spj ) incompetence in 17 limbs . group ii . atypical saphenous varicosities with non-junctional escapes occurred in 51 ( 22.17 % ) limbs . in 5 limbs , no escape was detected . twenty-two limbs had escapes localized in the main perforators : mid-thigh perforator 17 , upper calf 2 , distal ankle in 3 . twenty-four limbs had their escapes in the auxiliary perforators : abdomino-pelvic 17 , and circumflex iliac/external epigastric , 7 limbs . group iii . non saphenous ( lateral venous system ) varicosities occurred in 15 ( 6.52 % ) limbs . based on physical examination alone , 55 limbs would possibly have undergone unnecessary ankle to groin stripping and 83 limbs an unnecessary sfj ligation . doppler us is an essential diagnostic tool that can accurately map the origin and extent of the venous reflux . the obtained hemodynamic information will permit more selective , multimodal therapy and avoid the indiscriminate , often unnecessary stripping of the entire saphenous system in all cases of primary varicose veins . 
management of deep venous thrombosis in the pregnant female . deep venous thrombosis of the lower extremities is an uncommon but dreaded complication of pregnancy which can present diagnostic and therapeutic problems to the treating physician . from january 1 , 1985 , to december 31 , 1988 , 7867 deliveries were performed at st. luke 's hospital . five of these patients were pregnant women who were treated for deep venous thrombosis of the lower extremities . the women were either in their second or third trimester of pregnancy . the clinical diagnosis in each case was confirmed with duplex ultrasonography . each patient was treated with 7 to 10 days of intravenous heparin therapy and then discharged on subcutaneous heparin therapy . there were no bleeding complications related to the heparin therapy . no patient developed a pulmonary embolism . each patient delivered a normal child . the only complication was a heparin induced rash in one patient which resolved when a different preparation of heparin was used . the management of deep venous thrombosis in pregnancy is discussed . 
alterations in aldosterone secretion and metabolism in low renin hypertension . low renin essential hypertensives ( lrh ) have normal plasma aldosterone levels which are inappropriately high in relation to their pra . posture is the major determinant for plasma aldosterone and pra levels , but it is not known whether postural increments ( delta ) of plasma aldosterone and ( delta ) pra are also abnormal in lrh . to evaluate this , lrh ( n = 8 ) , normal renin hypertensives ( nrh ; n = 9 ) , normotensive controls ( n = 18 ) , and subjects with idiopathic hyperaldosteronism ( iha ; n = 5 ) were studied in a metabolic unit on a controlled diet over 7 days . overnight supine and 4-h upright pra , plasma aldosterone , and 24-h urinary tetrahydroaldosterone ( tha ) and aldosterone secretion rates ( asr ) were measured . the delta in plasma aldosterone after 4 h of upright posture was not different in the four groups . the ratio of delta plasma aldosterone/delta pra , however , was elevated in both iha and lrh compared to that in nrh and normals . tha excretion was also elevated in iha and lrh , but lrh had a normal asr . this resulted in a higher fractional tha excretion ( tha/asr ) in lrh compared to the other three groups . these data further support enhanced adrenal angiotensin-ii sensitivity in lrh . aldosterone was preferentially metabolized to tha in lrh . since tha has reduced biological activity , this may be a compensatory mechanism to reduce mineralocorticoid activity in lrh . 
endothelin family in human plasma and cerebrospinal fluid . to clarify whether endothelin may be present in human cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) and , if it exists , to compare its molecular forms with those of endothelin in human plasma , we analyzed pooled human csf and plasma by high performance liquid chromatography with specific enzyme immunoassays for each endothelin peptide . of the four human endothelin peptides hitherto identified , big endothelin-1 was the major molecular form of endothelin present in human csf . in addition , there was a small but significant amount of endothelin-1 and endothelin-3 in csf , while endothelin-2 was not detectable . similarly , big endothelin-1 , endothelin-1 , and endothelin-3 were identified in human plasma . although big endothelin-1 was the most abundant , a substantial amount of endothelin-1 and endothelin-3 was found in plasma with a resultant lower molar ratio of big endothelin-1 to endothelin-1 than in csf . in all csf samples from 17 patients requiring diagnostic lumbar puncture or lumbar anesthesia , endothelin was detectable , with a preponderance of big endothelin-1 relative to endothelin-1 and endothelin-3 . the mean concentrations of endothelin-1 and endothelin-3 in simultaneously collected plasma were significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) higher than those in csf , while there was no significant difference between the mean big endothelin-1 concentration in plasma and that in csf . there was no significant correlation among concentrations of big endothelin-1 , endothelin-1 , and endothelin-3 in each paired sample . these results indicate that endothelin is present in human csf that is differently processed from endothelin in vascular endothelial cells and suggest a possible role for endothelin as a modulator of neuronal functions . 
tongue ischemia from a soft-drink can : report of case . a young girl was brought to the emergency department because her tongue became entrapped while she was drinking from an aluminum soft-drink can . a dental drill was used to remove the can . the tongue was observed for 48 hours , during which an ischemic area recovered spontaneously . 
progression of native coronary artery disease at 10 years : insights from a randomized study of medical versus surgical therapy for angina . repeat coronary angiography was performed in 42 patients 10 years after randomization to medical ( n = 21 ) or surgical ( n = 21 ) therapy for chronic angina . the native coronary arteries were classified into 15 angiographic segments and 3 arterial trunks for analysis of progression of coronary artery disease . the incidence rate of disease progression in coronary segments was 24 % and 28 % in medically and surgically treated patients , respectively ( p = ns ) . grafted segments showed a 38 % rate of disease progression , which was higher than the 18 % rate of for nongrafted segments ( p less than 0.001 ) and the overall rate of 24 % for medically treated patients ( p less than 0.01 ) . similarly , 29 ( 94 % ) of 31 grafted arteries exhibited disease progression compared with 19 ( 59 % ) of 32 nongrafted arteries ( p less than 0.01 ) and 42 ( 67 % ) of 63 arteries in medically treated patients ( p less than 0.01 ) . in grafted vessels , disease progression occurred more often in arteries proximal ( 84 % ) to the anastomosis than in arteries distal ( 16 % ) to graft insertion ( p less than 0.001 ) . progression occurred in 46 % of proximal segments compared with 23 % of distal segments ( p less than 0.02 ) . progression was seen in 23 ( 55 % ) of 43 segments with an occluded graft compared with 30 ( 31 % ) of 96 segments with a patent graft ( p less than 0.02 ) . ten years after randomization , medically and surgically treated patients showed a comparable rate of disease progression in coronary segments . however , surgical therapy appeared to significantly accelerate atherosclerotic progression in the grafted vessels , especially in the proximal portions . occluded grafts also correlated with an adverse effect on disease progression . 
coronary artery surgery study ( cass ) : comparability of 10 year survival in randomized and randomizable patients . the coronary artery surgery study ( cass ) includes 780 patients with mild or moderate stable angina pectoris or asymptomatic survivors of a myocardial infarction who were randomized to either medical or surgical therapy and 1,319 patients who were eligible for randomization but were not randomized ( randomizable patients ) . there were no substantial aggregate differences observed in any of the survival comparisons after 10 years of follow-up study between the randomized and randomizable patients assigned to the medical ( 79 % versus 80 % ) or surgical ( 82 % versus 81 % ) groups or in patient subgroups stratified according to coronary artery disease extent and left ventricular ejection fraction . cox regression analyses were done with independent variables known to be predictors of survival , including surgical versus medical therapy and randomized versus randomizable group , to test the null hypothesis of a mortality difference between medical versus surgical assignment according to group assignment ( randomized versus randomizable ) . in no case did the initial group category enter as a significant predictor of survival . the results in the randomizable group reinforce those in the randomized group with respect to the medical versus surgical comparison . two subgroups are identified with a significant surgical advantage : 1 ) patients with proximal left anterior descending coronary artery stenosis greater than or equal to 70 % and an ejection fraction less than 0.50 , and 2 ) patients with three vessel coronary artery disease and an ejection fraction less than 0.50 . in both groups , coronary bypass surgery had a statistically significant beneficial effect on survival ( p less than 0.05 ) . after a decade of follow-up , the cass randomizable patients confirm conclusions reached on the basis of the cass randomized trial . 
coronary lesion morphology in acute myocardial infarction : demonstration of early remodeling after streptokinase treatment coronary lesion morphology was analyzed in 72 patients 1 to 8 days after streptokinase treatment for acute myocardial infarction and compared with lesion morphology in a control group of 24 patients with stable angina . in the streptokinase group the infarct-related artery was patent in 55 patients ( 76 % ) . compared with stenoses in the stable angina group , there were no differences in the stenosis length , severity , calcification or in the proportion located at an acute bend or at a branch point . however , lesions in the streptokinase group were more often irregular ( p less than 0.005 ) and eccentric ( p less than 0.01 ) , had a shoulder ( p less than 0.0001 ) , globular filling defects ( p less than 0.01 ) , linear filling defects ( p less than 0.00005 ) and contrast staining ( p less than 0.05 ) . plaque ulceration index was higher in the streptokinase than in the stable angina group ( 6.2 + / - 7.9 versus 3.5 + / - 3.4 , p less than 0.001 ) . of the 72 streptokinase-treated patients , 35 were maintained on heparin infusion until angioplasty 2 to 10 days later . at repeat angiography before angioplasty , globular lesion filling defects seen in eight patients had disappeared , whereas linear filling defects persisted in 7 of 14 cases . fewer lesions were irregular ( p less than 0.0001 ) and the ulceration index decreased from 7.4 + / - 10.4 to 3.0 + / - 1.6 ( p less than 0.001 ) . these data show that the lesion in the infarct-related artery after streptokinase treatment is irregular and often associated with filling defects , perhaps corresponding to plaque fissuring and intraluminal thrombosis . 
results of primary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction in patients with multivessel coronary artery disease . the influence of multivessel coronary artery disease on the outcome of reperfusion therapy for myocardial infarction has not been fully characterized . direct coronary angioplasty without antecedent thrombolytic therapy was performed during evolving myocardial infarction in 285 patients with multivessel coronary artery disease at 5.2 + / - 4.2 h after the onset of chest pain . two vessel disease was present in 163 patients ( 57 % ) and three vessel disease in 122 ( 43 % ) . an anterior infarct was present in 123 patients ( 43 % ) , cardiogenic shock in 33 ( 12 % ) and age greater than or equal to 70 years in 59 ( 21 % ) . angioplasty of the infarct-related vessel was successful in 256 patients ( 90 % ) , including 92 % with two vessel and 88 % with three vessel disease ( p = ns ) . emergency bypass surgery was needed in six patients ( 2 % ) . in-hospital death occurred in 33 patients ( 12 % ) , including 13 with two vessel and 20 with three vessel disease ( p less than 0.05 ) . the mortality rate was only 4 % in the subgroup of 101 patients who met entry criteria for thrombolytic trials . the in-hospital mortality rate was 45 % in patients in shock and 7 % in patients not in shock ( p less than 0.01 ) . logistic regression analysis identified shock and age greater than or equal to 70 years as independently associated with in-hospital death . in 135 patients who underwent predischarge left ventriculography , global ejection fraction increased from 50 % to 57 % ( p less than 0.001 ) and regional wall motion in the infarct zone improved in 59 % of patients . follow-up data were available in 251 patients ( 99 % ) at a mean of 35 + / - 19 months . 
multivessel coronary angioplasty from 1980 to 1989 : procedural results and long-term outcome from june 1980 to january 1989 , 3,186 patients had coronary angioplasty of two ( 2,399 patients ) or three ( 787 patients ) of the three major epicardial coronary systems . a mean of 3.6 lesions ( range 2 to 14 ) were dilated per patient , with a 96 % success rate . acute complications were seen in 94 patients ( 2.9 % ) and included q wave infarction in 47 ( 1.4 % ) , urgent coronary artery bypass surgery in 33 ( 1 % ) and death in 31 ( 1 % ) . multivariate correlates of in-hospital death included impaired left ventricular function , age greater than or equal to 70 years and female gender . complete long-term follow-up data were available for the first 700 patients and the follow-up period averaged 54 + / - 15 months in duration . actuarial 1 and 5 year survival rates were 97 % and 88 % , respectively , and were not different in patients with two or three vessel disease . by cox regression analysis , age greater than or equal to 70 years , left ventricular ejection fraction less than or equal to 40 % and prior coronary artery bypass surgery were associated with an increased mortality rate during the follow-up period . repeat revascularization procedures were required in 322 patients ( 46 % ) . restenosis resulted in either repeat angioplasty or bypass surgery in 227 patients ( 32 % ) . repeat coronary angioplasty was performed for isolated restenosis in 126 patients ( 18 % ) , for restenosis and disease progression at new sites in 85 patients ( 12 % ) and for new disease progression alone in 54 patients ( 8 % ) . coronary bypass surgery was required in 110 patients ( 16 % ) during the follow-up period . 
plasma homocyst ( e ) ine levels in men with premature coronary artery disease . plasma homocyst ( e ) ine ( that is , the sum of free and bound homocysteine and its oxidized forms , homocystine and homocysteine-cysteine mixed disulfide ) levels were determined in 170 men ( mean age + / - sd 50 + / - 7 years ) with premature coronary artery disease diagnosed at coronary angiography and in 255 control subjects clinically free of coronary artery disease ( mean age 49 + / - 6 years ) . patients with coronary artery disease had a higher homocyst ( e ) ine level than control subjects ( 13.66 + / - 6.44 versus 10.93 + / - 4.92 nmol/ml , p less than 0.001 ) . high density lipoprotein ( hdl ) cholesterol levels were lower ( 32 + / - 10 versus 46 + / - 13 mg/dl , p less than 0.001 ) and triglycerides levels were higher ( 193 + / - 103 versus 136 + / - 106 mg/dl , p less than 0.001 ) in the coronary disease group . plasma total cholesterol and low density lipoprotein ( ldl ) cholesterol levels were not significantly different between patients with coronary disease and control subjects . the presence of hypertension , smoking or diabetes mellitus did not significantly alter homocyst ( e ) ine levels in the patient or the control group . patients who were not taking a beta-adrenergic blocking drug ( n = 70 ) had a nonsignificantly higher homocyst ( e ) ine level than did patients taking this class of drugs ( n = 100 ) ( 14.67 + / - 8.92 versus 12.95 + / - 3.77 nmol/ml , p = 0.087 ) . by design , none of the control subjects were taking a beta-blocker . no significant correlations were observed between homocyst ( e ) ine and age , serum cholesterol , ldl cholesterol , hdl cholesterol or triglyceride levels . it is concluded that an elevated plasma homocyst ( e ) ine level is an independent risk factor for the development of premature coronary atherosclerosis in men . 
prolonged anginal perceptual threshold in diabetes : effects on exercise capacity and myocardial ischemia . anginal perceptual threshold ( the time from onset of 0.1 mv of st segment depression to onset of angina during treadmill exercise ) is prolonged in diabetic patients with coronary artery disease . in the present study , the functional significance of this perceptual abnormality was evaluated by analysis of its effect on exercise capacity and the severity of myocardial ischemia . treadmill exercise in 32 diabetic patients and 36 nondiabetic control patients showed a close linear correlation between the time to onset of electrical ischemia ( st segment depression ) and exercise capacity in both groups ( r = 0.8 and 0.9 , respectively ; p less than 0.001 ) . however , the slope of the relation was flatter in the diabetic group because prolongation of the anginal perceptual threshold permitted continued exercise as ischemia intensified . the anginal perceptual threshold itself showed a close linear correlation with exercise capacity in the diabetic group ( r = 0.8 , p less than 0.001 ) , although in the nondiabetic group these variables were unrelated . the permissive effect of a prolonged anginal perceptual threshold on exercise capacity is undesirable as reflected by its correlation with ischemia at peak exercise ( r = 0.6 , p less than 0.001 ) : the longer the threshold , the greater the exercise capacity and the more severe the ischemia . indeed , the inverse relation between the severity of ischemia at peak exercise and exercise capacity in the nondiabetic group ( r = 0.4 , p less than 0.02 ) was completely lost in the diabetic group . thus , in diabetic patients with coronary artery disease , anginal perceptual threshold is a major determinant of exercise capacity . 
clinical and hemodynamic correlates of sympathetic nerve activity in normal humans and patients with heart failure : evidence from direct microneurographic recordings . to characterize the neural excitatory state of heart failure , simultaneous measurements of efferent sympathetic nerve activity to muscle ( by microneurography ) and rest hemodynamics were obtained in 10 normal subjects ( age 25 + / - 2 years , mean + / - sem ) and 29 patients with heart failure ( age 49 + / - 2 years ; new york heart association functional class ii to iv ; left ventricular ejection fraction 21 + / - 1 % ; cardiac index = 2.16 + / - 0.13 liters/min per m2 ; pulmonary capillary wedge pressure 23 + / - 2 mm hg ) . sympathetic nerve activity was significantly higher in the patients with heart failure ( 54.7 + / - 4.5 bursts/min ) than in normal subjects ( 16.7 + / - 2.2 bursts/min , p less than 0.001 ) . multiple linear regression analyses indicated that sympathetic activity in these human subjects was most strongly and inversely correlated with left ventricular stroke work index ( r = -0.86 , p less than 0.0001 ) and stroke volume index ( r = -0.85 , p less than 0.0001 ) . there was a strong positive correlation between sympathetic nerve activity and pulmonary artery diastolic ( r = 0.82 , p less than 0.0001 ) and mean ( r = 0.81 , p less than 0.0001 ) pressures . similar correlations were seen when patients with heart failure were analyzed separately . there was no significant correlation between sympathetic nerve activity and mean arterial pressure , left ventricular ejection fraction ( by radionuclide ventriculography ) , cardiac chamber size ( by echocardiography ) or arterial oxygen tension in the patients with heart failure . direct measurements of sympathetic nerve activity correlated closely with plasma norepinephrine ( r = 0.72 , p less than 0.0001 ) in patients with heart failure . thus , sympathetic nerve activity at rest parallels impairment of cardiac performance in patients with heart failure . 
serial doppler echocardiographic follow-up of left ventricular diastolic function in cardiac amyloidosis . a spectrum of left ventricular diastolic filling abnormalities noted on doppler echocardiography has been demonstrated in patients with cardiac amyloidosis . to determine how these filling abnormalities evolve over time and the significance of any change , serial pulsed wave doppler studies of left ventricular inflow were performed over 12.6 + / - 4.9 months in 41 consecutive patients ( 36 men and 15 women , mean age 59 + / - 11 years ) with typical two-dimensional echocardiographic features of cardiac involvement . the measurements were peak left ventricular inflow in early diastole ( e ) and atrial contraction ( a ) velocities , e/a ratio , deceleration time and isovolumetric relaxation time . patients were classified by mean left ventricular wall thickness into an early group ( less than 15 mm ) of 24 patients and an advanced group ( greater than or equal to 15 mm ) of 17 patients . the total group showed an increased e/a ratio ( 1.7 + / - 0.9 versus 1.4 + / - 0.9 , p = 0.009 ) and decreased deceleration time ( 164 + / - 57 versus 174 + / - 51 ms , p = 0.11 ) at follow-up compared with baseline study . the early group showed significant changes in the e/a ratio ( 1.6 + / - 1.0 versus 1.2 + / - 0.7 , p = 0.001 ) between the two studies . seven patients ( 29 % ) in the early group showed a change from an abnormal relaxation or " normal " pattern to one of restriction , coincident with increased symptoms in six of these patients . fifteen ( 88 % ) of the 17 patients in the advanced group did not show significant changes in the measures during the follow-up study , but these patients already showed a restrictive pattern . 
simultaneous transesophageal atrial pacing and transesophageal two-dimensional echocardiography : a new method of stress echocardiography the diagnostic use of exercise echocardiography has been widely reported . however , transthoracic exercise echocardiography is inadequate in up to 20 % of patients because of poor image quality related to exercise . in an attempt to overcome these limitations , a system was developed in which transesophageal echocardiography is combined with simultaneous transesophageal atrial pacing by means of the same probe . in a prospective study , transesophageal echocardiography was performed before , during and immediately after maximal atrial pacing in 50 patients with suspected coronary artery disease . results of transesophageal stress echocardiography were considered abnormal when new pacing-induced regional wall motion abnormalities were observed . correlative routine bicycle exercise testing was carried out in 44 patients . cardiac catheterization was performed in all patients . the success rate in obtaining high quality diagnostic images was 100 % by transesophageal echocardiography . all nine patients without angiographic evidence of coronary artery disease had a normal result on the transesophageal stress echocardiogram ( 100 % specificity ) . thirty-eight of 41 patients with coronary artery disease ( defined as greater than or equal to 50 % luminal diameter narrowing of at least one major vessel ) had an abnormal result on the transesophageal stress echocardiogram ( 93 % sensitivity ) . the sensitivity of the technique for one , two or three vessel disease was 85 % , 100 % and 100 % , respectively , compared with 44 % , 50 % and 83 % , respectively , for bicycle exercise testing ; the 12 lead electrocardiogram ( ecg ) during rapid atrial pacing showed a sensitivity of 25 % , 64 % and 86 % , respectively . thus , rapid atrial pacing combined with simultaneous transesophageal echocardiography is a highly specific and sensitive technique for the detection of coronary artery disease . ischemia-induced wall motion abnormalities were detected earlier than observed ecg changes . the technique appears to be particularly suited to patients who are unable to perform an active stress test or those with poor quality transthoracic echocardiograms . 
dynamic positron tomographic imaging with nitrogen-13 glutamate in patients with coronary artery disease : comparison with nitrogen-13 ammonia and fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose imaging . this study was designed to test the usefulness of nitrogen-13 ( n-13 ) glutamate imaging with positron emission tomography in defining myocardial ischemia in humans . seventeen patients who had undergone coronary arteriography were studied with n-13 glutamate at peak supine exercise using a bicycle ergometer , as well as with the flow tracer n-13 ammonia at peak exercise during a second similar exercise test . six of the patients also underwent imaging with n-13 glutamate at rest before exercise testing ; in the remaining 11 patients imaging with fluorine-18 ( f-18 ) fluorodeoxyglucose was performed to assess glucose metabolism after the second exercise test . seven patients had classic metabolism-flow mismatches consistent with ischemia ( that is , decreased n-13 ammonia uptake in a region with relatively increased f-18 fluorodeoxyglucose uptake ) . there was no evidence of increased n-13 glutamate uptake in the ischemic mismatched regions in any of these patients . in all 17 patients , the uptake of n-13 glutamate during exercise paralleled the uptake of n-13 ammonia during exercise , suggesting that n-13 glutamate behaves as a flow tracer rather than as a metabolic marker of ischemia in humans . 
effects of nitroprusside on transmitral flow velocity patterns in extreme heart failure : a combined hemodynamic and doppler echocardiographic study of varying loading conditions . to explore the mechanisms of change of left ventricular diastolic filling associated with preload and afterload reduction , the influence of nitroprusside on the transmitral flow velocity pattern , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure and left ventricular pressure interaction was studied in 11 patients with end-stage heart failure . pulsed doppler echocardiographic recordings of mitral inflow were obtained with simultaneous high fidelity left ventricular and phase-corrected pulmonary capillary wedge pressure recordings before and during levels of nitroprusside infusion . with nitroprusside , left ventricular systolic and end-diastolic pressures decreased by 14 % and 41 % ( p less than 0.05 , p less than 0.05 ) , respectively , and cardiac output increased by 67 % ( p less than 0.05 ) . the pulmonary capillary wedge-left ventricular crossover pressure decreased by 41 % ( p less than 0.05 ) , but the time constant of isovolumetric left ventricular pressure decrease t was insignificantly changed . isovolumetric relaxation time and acceleration and deceleration times of the early diastolic filling wave were significantly prolonged with nitroprusside infusion ( p less than 0.05 , p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.05 , respectively ) . peak early diastolic filling velocity was maintained ( 65 + / - 11 to 62 + / - 13 cm/s , p = ns ) in spite of the decreased absolute crossover pressure . changes in peak early diastolic filling velocity correlated weakly with changes in the crossover pressure ( r = 0.48 , p less than 0.05 ) and correlated better with the crossover to left ventricular minimal pressure difference ( r = 0.78 , p less than 0.05 ) . peak early diastolic filling velocity appears to be most affected by the early diastolic pulmonary capillary wedge to left ventricular pressure difference rather than the absolute pulmonary capillary wedge pressure . the lack of peak flow velocity change during nitroprusside infusion could be explained by either the associated decrease in left ventricular minimal pressure or downward shift of left ventricular diastolic pressure by the same amount as the decrease in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure . this may reflect a reduction of external constraint to ventricular distensibility produced by a reduction in filling volume in patients with a markedly dilated ventricle . thus , a prolonged early diastolic filling period and preserved peak early diastolic filling velocity in spite of decreased left ventricular filling pressure and constant relaxation rate are associated with the beneficial effects of nitroprusside on left ventricular function in patients with severe congestive heart failure . 
determinants of the ventricular rate during atrial fibrillation . determinants of the ventricular cycle length during atrial fibrillation were examined in 52 patients . thirty-three patients had structural heart disease and none had an accessory atrioventricular ( av ) connection . the av node effective and functional refractory periods , the shortest atrial pacing cycle length associated with 1:1 conduction , the av node conduction time and indexes of concealed conduction in the av node were measured in the baseline state ( 36 patients ) and after modification of sympathetic tone by infusion of isoproterenol or propranolol ( 8 patients each ) . atrial fibrillation was then induced with rapid atrial pacing , and the mean , shortest and longest ventricular cycle lengths were measured . variables that correlated most strongly with the mean rr interval during atrial fibrillation were the av node effective refractory period ( r = 0.93 ; p less than 0.001 ) , av node functional refractory period ( r = 0.87 ; p less than 0.001 ) and shortest atrial pacing cycle length associated with 1:1 conduction ( r = 0.91 ; p less than 0.001 ) . the ah interval during sinus rhythm ( r = 0.74 ; p less than 0.001 ) and during atrial pacing at the shortest cycle length with 1:1 conduction ( r = 0.52 ; p less than 0.001 ) had weaker correlations . measures of concealed conduction did not improve the prediction of the mean or longest ventricular cycle length during atrial fibrillation . in conclusion , the refractory periods and conductivity of the av node are the best indicators of the potential of the node to transmit atrial impulses to the ventricles during atrial fibrillation . the degree of concealed conduction in the av node is a less important determinant of the mean ventricular rate during atrial fibrillation . 
supraventricular tachycardia due to wolff-parkinson-white syndrome in children : early disappearance and late recurrence the clinical course of 140 patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome who had their initial episode of supraventricular tachycardia before 18 years of age was reviewed . among those whose tachycardia began at age 0 to 2 months , it disappeared in 93 % and persisted in 7 % . in 31 % , it disappeared and reappeared at an average age of 8 years . among patients whose tachycardia was present after age 5 years , it was persistent in 78 % at a mean follow-up period of 7 years . accessory connection location was mapped by electrophysiologic study in 87 patients and estimated by electrocardiography in 53 patients . there were no differences in tachycardia onset or recurrence based on accessory connection location . congenital heart defects were present in 37 % of all patients , 23 % of whom had ebstein 's anomaly . among all patients who underwent cardiac catheterization , 63 % of those with a congenital heart defect had a rightsided accessory connection , whereas 61 % of patients with a normal heart had a left-sided connection ( p less than 0.01 ) . multiple accessory connections were found in 12 % of patients with a congenital heart defect compared with 6 % of those without such a defect . in conclusion : 1 ) supraventricular tachycardia due to wolff-parkinson-white syndrome that begins in infancy may disappear , but it frequently recurs in later childhood ; 2 ) if tachycardia is present after age 5 years , it persists in greater than 75 % of patients ; and 3 ) the location of the accessory connection does not affect the clinical course of tachycardia in children with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome . 
ventricular arrhythmias after correction of ventricular septal defects : importance of surgical approach . to compare the prevalence of conduction disturbances and ventricular arrhythmias in cases of postoperative ventricular septal defect , 100 patients ( 50 with repair by right atriotomy , group 1 ; and 50 with repair by right ventriculotomy , group 2 ) underwent complete evaluation including an electrocardiogram ( ecg ) and 24 h ambulatory ecg monitoring . the two groups were comparable except for a shorter follow-up duration ( 7 + / - 3 versus 12.4 + / - 7 years ) and a younger age at evaluation ( 12.4 + / - 5 versus 16.9 + / - 7 years ) in group 1 . complete right bundle branch block was less frequent in group 1 than in group 2 ( 20 % versus 50 % , p less than 0.05 ) but three of the four patients with complete atrioventricular ( av ) block detected on ambulatory monitoring were in group 1 . six patients had significant supraventricular arrhythmias , all well tolerated . ambulatory monitoring revealed significant ventricular arrhythmias ( modified lown grade 2 or higher ) in 39 patients , with a lower prevalence in group 1 ( 30 % versus 48 % , p = 0.05 ) . no correlation was found between prevalence of ventricular arrhythmias and right ventricular systolic pressure , cardiopulmonary bypass duration , presence of a synthetic patch , previous pulmonary artery banding , presence of complete right bundle branch block and cardiomegaly on chest x-ray film . prevalence of ventricular arrhythmias increased with follow-up duration , age at evaluation and age at surgery . these were always well tolerated and did not warrant treatment . thus , right atriotomy reduces the prevalence of right bundle branch block but does not prevent late av block . ventricular arrhythmias are frequent after surgical closure of ventricular septal defect whatever the surgical approach and their prevalence is not statistically different from that in postoperative tetralogy of fallot . 
efficacy of propafenone in preventing ventricular tachycardia : inverse correlation with rate-related prolongation of conduction time the efficacy of propafenone in preventing induction of ventricular tachycardia was evaluated in 25 consecutive patients ( mean age 62 + / - 8 years ) with remote myocardial infarction who underwent programmed electrical stimulation for ventricular arrhythmia using up to three extra-stimuli after basic drive at the right ventricular apex . in nine patients ( group a ) , propafenone prevented induction of sustained ventricular tachycardia ( noninducible in four , nonsustained [ less than 30 s ] in five ) . in the other 16 patients ( group b ) , sustained ventricular tachycardia was still inducible ; in 11 of the 16 , the tachycardia configuration was unchanged but the cycle length was significantly longer ( 431 + / - 99 versus 284 + / - 44 ms , p less than 0.001 ) . propafenone did not significantly affect either sinus cycle length or ah and hv intervals . however , it prolonged qrs duration during sinus rhythm equally in both groups of patients . with ventricular pacing , propafenone also prolonged right ventricular effective and functional refractory periods and surface qrs duration . there was greater lengthening of the paced surface qrs duration when drug therapy was ineffective ( for example , +35 + / - 12 ms in group a versus +69 + / - 23 ms in group b at a basic drive of 400 ms , p less than 0.01 ) . drug-induced prolongation of a paced qrs complex greater than 40 ms had a 94 % positive predictive value for drug failure to prevent induction of ventricular tachycardia . drug-induced percent prolongation of ventricular tachycardia cycle length in group b did not correlate well with percent qrs prolongation . 
magnitude and time course of beta-adrenergic antagonism during oral amiodarone therapy . to examine the presence and time course of beta-adrenergic antagonism produced by amiodarone , the heart rate , qt interval and arrhythmia frequency in response to graded doses of isoproterenol were evaluated in eight patients treated with oral amiodarone for sustained ventricular tachycardia . measurements were made before and every 2 days after beginning oral amiodarone therapy ( 600 mg twice daily ) . isoproterenol was given in doses of 12.5 , 25 and 50 ng/kg body weight per min . the mean heart rate at rest decreased from 73.1 + / - 17.8 beats/min on day 0 to 57.8 + / - 15.0 beats/min after 12 days of amiodarone therapy . a significant linear decline in heart rate at rest was observed until day 6 ( p less than 0.05 for all comparisons ) . on all days isoproterenol produced a progressive increase in heart rate that reached 115.5 + / - 20.2 beats/min on day 0 and 94.2 + / - 18.5 beats/min on day 12 . amiodarone blunted the heart rate increase produced by isoproterenol on days 2 to 12 ( p less than 0.05 versus day 0 ) . this effect was present by day 2 and did not change significantly thereafter . the mean corrected qt ( qtc ) interval increased from 430 + / - 30 ms on day 0 to 449 + / - 63 ms on day 12 . a significant linear increase in qtc interval was observed until day 6 ( p less than 0.05 for all comparisons ) . there was no systematic effect of isoproterenol on the qtc interval . five of eight patients had a significant number of isoproterenol-induced premature ventricular complexes . ventricular ectopic activity in response to isoproterenol was abolished after 4 days of amiodarone therapy . 
surgical treatment of endomyocardial fibrosis : a new approach . endomyocardial fibrosis has been treated surgically for many years . for complete removal of fibrosis from both ventricles by the classic technique , each atrioventricular ( av ) valve was removed and replaced with a prosthesis . relapse of endomyocardial fibrosis has not been observed after surgical correction . reoperations have been carried out because of complications of valve prostheses . a new surgical technique for removal of ventricular fibrous tissue with preservation of the mitral and tricuspid valves was used in nine consecutive patients with endomyocardial fibrosis . initial results show a reduction of pulmonary hypertension , mean right and left atrial pressures and end-diastolic pressures in both ventricles . tricuspid annuloplasty was performed in seven patients and mitral annuloplasty in five . no valve prosthesis was used . there was no death and new york heart association functional class improved from class iii or iv in the preoperative period to class i or ii in the postoperative period . these data suggest that resection of endocardial fibrous tissue can be indicated early in the clinical course and performed with preservation of the av valves . 
effect of intravenous streptokinase on the relation between initial st-predicted size and final qrs-estimated size of acute myocardial infarcts . thrombolytic therapy has been documented to reduce acute myocardial infarct size . the previously established relation between initial st segment elevation and final electrocardiographic ( ecg ) myocardial infarct size in patients without coronary reperfusion might therefore be altered by thrombolytic therapy . the effect of intravenous streptokinase on this relation was therefore studied in 73 patients with initial acute myocardial infarction who had participated in the second international study of infarct survival ( isis-2 ) . patients who received streptokinase were considered as one group and patients who did not receive streptokinase as a control group . final myocardial infarct size , which was estimated from the qrs score , was predicted from the admission standard ecg by previously developed formulas based on st segment elevation . in the 40 control patients there was no change from st-predicted to final qrs-estimated infarct size ( median 17.7 % versus 18.3 % ; p = ns ) . in the 33 patients in the streptokinase group , there was a highly significant decrease from predicted to final myocardial infarct size ( median 21.9 % versus 16.2 % ; p less than 0.0002 ) . this decrease was found for both anterior ( median 23.7 % versus 19.5 % ; p less than 0.03 ) and inferior ( median 21.9 % versus 12.0 % ; p = 0.001 ) infarct locations . multiple regression analysis adjusting for differences in predicted infarct size confirmed the significance of streptokinase on the difference in infarct size ( p = 0.006 ) . based on the variability of the percent change from predicted to final infarct size in the control group , a threshold decrease greater than or equal to 20 % is required for identification of salvage . 
intraoperative assessment of regional myocardial perfusion using quantitative myocardial contrast echocardiography : an experimental evaluation . to test the hypothesis that myocardial contrast echocardiography can be used to quantitate regional myocardial flow in the arrested heart at the time of delivery of cardioplegic solution , data were acquired in 13 dogs on cardiopulmonary bypass . different degrees of stenosis were placed in random order on the left anterior descending coronary artery . for each stenosis , myocardial contrast echocardiography was performed by injecting sonicated albumin microbubbles into the cross-clamped aortic root at the time of delivery of cardioplegic solution . the resultant echocardiographic images were analyzed on an off-line computer . background-subtracted time-intensity plots were generated , and an exponential function , f ( t ) = ce-alpha t + de - beta t , was applied to each plot . variables that reflected the total number of microbubbles entering the coronary artery bed , such as the area under the curve and the peak height of the curve , correlated best with radiolabeled microsphere-measured myocardial flow ( r = 0.92 and r = 0.91 , respectively ) . variables that reflected the appearance of contrast microbubbles in the myocardium , such as the initial slope and the slope at 1 s , also had a good correlation with myocardial flow ( r = 0.84 and r = 0.89 , respectively ) . variables that reflected the washout of contrast medium from the myocardium , such as the slope of the descending portion of the curve , had only a fair correlation with myocardial flow ( r = 0.65 ) . in six dogs , the technique of injecting contrast medium into the cross-clamped aortic root was also examined . although continuous infusion of contrast medium produced smaller perturbations in mean aortic and distal left anterior descending artery pressures compared with a bolus injection ( p less than 0.01 ) , the correlation between the variables of the time-intensity curves and flow was equally close with both techniques . it is concluded that it is possible to quantitate myocardial flow by using myocardial contrast echocardiography at the time of delivery of cardioplegic solution in dogs on cardiopulmonary bypass . the implementation of this technique in humans might be useful in guiding the sequence of graft placement and thereby improving myocardial preservation during coronary artery bypass operations . 
pharmacokinetics of indium-111-labeled antimyosin monoclonal antibody in murine experimental viral myocarditis . the pharmacokinetics of indium-111-labeled antimyosin monoclonal antibody fab were investigated with use of murine experimental viral myocarditis as a model . the biodistribution of indium-111-labeled antimyosin antibody fab on days 3 , 5 , 7 , 14 , 21 and 28 after encephalomyocarditis virus inoculation demonstrated that myocardial uptake increased significantly on days 5 , 7 and 14 ( maximum on day 7 ) in infected versus uninfected mice ( p less than 0.001 ) . in vivo kinetics in infected mice on day 7 demonstrated that the heart to blood ratio reached a maximum 48 h after the intravenous administration of indium-111-labeled antimyosin fab , which was considered to be the optimal time for scintigraphy . the scintigraphic images obtained with indium-111-labeled antimyosin fab demonstrated positive uptake in the cardiac lesion in infected mice . the pathologic study demonstrated that myocardial uptake correlated well with pathologic grades of myocardial necrosis . high performance liquid chromatography revealed the presence of an antigen-antibody complex in the circulation of infected mice after the injection of indium-111-labeled antimyosin fab . this antigen bound to indium-111-labeled antimyosin fab in the circulation might be whole myosin and this complex may decrease myocardial uptake and increase liver uptake . it is concluded that indium-111-labeled antimyosin monoclonal antibody fab accumulates selectively in damaged heart tissue in mice with acute myocarditis and that indium-111-labeled antimyosin fab scintigraphy may be a useful method for the visualization of acute myocarditis . 
prostaglandin modulation of early afterdepolarizations and ventricular tachyarrhythmias induced by cesium chloride combined with efferent cardiac sympathetic stimulation in dogs . prostaglandins inhibit efferent cardiac sympathetic nerve effects by acting at presynaptic sites and may act to suppress some arrhythmias . in the present study , the effects of intravenous administration of prostacyclin ( pgi2 ) and prostaglandin e2 ( pge2 ) on early afterdepolarizations and ventricular tachycardia induced by cesium chloride ( 0.5 mmol/liter per kg body weight intravenously ) combined with stimulation of bilateral ansae subclaviae in anesthetized dogs were examined . the right atrium was paced at a constant cycle length of 600 ms. a left ventricular endocardial monophasic action potential catheter was used to detect early afterdepolarizations . prostacyclin ( 0.2 microgram/kg per min ) reduced the amplitude of the early afterdepolarizations ( 39.2 + / - 8.4 % of the monophasic action potential amplitude during control study to 28.7 + / - 5.5 % , n = 10 ; p less than 0.001 ) as well as the prevalence of ventricular tachycardia ( 11 of 14 dogs during control study to 5 of 14 dogs ; p = 0.031 ) . prostaglandin e2 ( 0.2 to 0.6 microgram/kg per min ) did not significantly reduce the early afterdepolarization amplitude ( 34.7 + / - 8.9 % to 25.1 + / - 10.7 % , n = 8 ; p = 0.085 ) or the prevalence of ventricular tachycardia ( 8 of 10 versus 6 of 10 dogs ; p = 0.50 ) . alpha - and beta-adrenoceptor blockade with combined intravenous administration of propranolol ( 0.5 mg/kg ) and phentolamine ( 0.3 mg/kg ) decreased the amplitude of the early afterdepolarizations induced by cesium chloride and bilateral ansae subclaviae stimulation from 38.6 + / - 11.2 % to 18.8 + / - 3.3 % ( n = 6 ; p = 0.005 ) . additional administration of pgi2 further reduced the early afterdepolarization amplitude from 18.8 + / - 3.3 % to 9.8 + / - 4.8 % ( n = 6 ; p = 0.001 ) . 
effects of calcium channel blockers on coronary vasoconstriction induced by endothelin-1 in closed chest pigs . the purpose of this study was to determine the effects of endothelin-1 on the coronary vascular bed of closed chest pigs . endothelin-1 ( 3 to 30 pmol/kg body weight ) was selectively administered into the left anterior descending coronary artery . coronary blood flow and epicardial vessel diameter were measured by quantitative arteriography . arterial pressure increased after a 30 pmol/kg dose and heart rate was not changed . coronary blood flow and vessel diameter of the left anterior descending artery significantly decreased by 74 % and 32 % , respectively ( p less than 0.01 versus control ) after the 30 pmol/kg dose , whereas these variables modestly decreased in the left circumflex artery . endothelin-1 in doses of 10 to 30 pmol/kg produced electrocardiographic st segment elevation associated with decreased oxygen saturation of coronary sinus venous blood . endothelin-induced coronary vasoconstriction was significantly inhibited after treatment with intravenous diltiazem ( 0.2 mg/kg , n = 6 ) or nifedipine ( 0.1 mg/kg , n = 5 ) , but not after vehicle administration ( n = 4 ) . this study demonstrates that intracoronary administration of endothelin-1 causes significant myocardial ischemia through coronary vasoconstriction , which is inhibited by a calcium channel blocker . the data suggest that calcium influx into the smooth muscle cells appears to be involved at least in part in the mechanism of endothelin-induced coronary vasoconstriction in vivo . 
direct visualization of ruptured chordae tendineae by transesophageal two-dimensional echocardiography . to determine the value of transesophageal echocardiography in the detection of ruptured chordae tendineae , 28 patients who had surgical therapy for pure mitral regurgitation were evaluated prospectively by conventional transthoracic and transesophageal two-dimensional echocardiography . seventeen patients ( group i ) had ruptured chordae tendineae and 11 ( group ii ) had intact chordae tendineae . transthoracic echocardiography detected ruptured chordae tendineae in 6 patients from group i ( sensitivity 35 % ) and flail leaflets in 11 patients from group i ( sensitivity 65 % ) . transesophageal echocardiography disclosed ruptured chordae tendineae in all 17 group i patients ( sensitivity 100 % ) ; the sensitivity was significantly higher than that of transthoracic echocardiography . no abnormal chordal echoes were visualized in any patient from group ii by either transthoracic or transesophageal echocardiography ( specificity 100 % ) . transesophageal echocardiography is a highly sensitive method for detecting ruptured chordae tendineae and is superior to transthoracic echocardiography in establishing its diagnosis . 
transesophageal echocardiography to detect atrial clots in candidates for percutaneous transseptal mitral balloon valvuloplasty . left atrial thrombi are common in patients with mitral stenosis . when percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty is performed on such patients , there is a potential risk of thrombus dislodgment and embolization . in this study conventional transthoracic echocardiography and transesophageal echocardiography were performed for percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty on 19 consecutive candidates ( 6 men , 13 women , 23 to 81 years old ) . in five patients ( 26 % ) , transesophageal echocardiography revealed a left atrial thrombus ; in only one of these was there a suspicion of left atrial thrombus on transthoracic echocardiography . balloon mitral valvuloplasty was canceled in four of the five patients . three underwent mitral valve surgery that confirmed the echocardiographic findings . transesophageal echocardiography is better than conventional transthoracic echocardiography in detecting left atrial clots in candidates for balloon mitral valvuloplasty . because of the potential risk of embolization , transesophageal echocardiography is recommended in all candidates for balloon mitral valvuloplasty . 
relation between beta-adrenergic blocker use , various correlates of left ventricular function and the chance of developing congestive heart failure . the multicenter diltiazem post-infarction research group . this study examined the relations among beta-adrenergic blocker use , various correlates of left ventricular function and the chance of developing congestive heart failure in patients after myocardial infarction . the study was performed with the placebo group of the multicenter diltiazem post-infarction trial . ejection fraction data were available in 1,084 patients ; of these , 557 were receiving a beta-blocker and 527 were not . in addition to ejection fraction , other correlates of left ventricular function included the presence or absence of pulmonary rales , chest x-ray film evidence of pulmonary congestion and the presence of an s3 gallop . beta-blocker use was less frequent in patients with an ejection fraction less than 30 % , rales , an s3 gallop and pulmonary congestion on chest x-ray film . twenty-one percent of patients with an ejection fraction less than 30 % , 42 % of patients with rales , 28 % of patients with an s3 gallop and 28 % of patients with pulmonary congestion were receiving beta-blocker therapy . for every correlate of left ventricular function , the chance of developing congestive heart failure was greater in patients with diminished left ventricular function than in those without . for each level of left ventricular function , the chance of developing congestive heart failure requiring treatment was greater in patients not taking a beta-blocker . 
detection of restenosis after successful coronary angioplasty : improved clinical decision making with use of a logistic model combining procedural and follow-up variables . a prospective study of 111 patients who underwent repeat coronary angiography and exercise thallium-201 scintigraphy 6 + / - 2 months after complete revascularization by percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty was performed to assess whether clinical , procedure-related and postangioplasty exercise variables yield independent information for the prediction of angiographic restenosis after angioplasty . complete revascularization was defined as successful angioplasty of one or more vessels that resulted in no residual coronary lesion with greater than 50 % diameter stenosis . restenosis was defined as a residual stenosis at the time of repeat angiography of greater than 50 % of luminal diameter . restenosis occurred in 40 % of the patients . the 111 patients were randomly subdivided into a learning group ( n = 84 ) and a testing group ( n = 27 ) . a logistic discriminant analysis was performed in the learning group and the logistic model was used to estimate a logistic probability of restenosis . this probability of restenosis was validated in the testing group . in the learning group of 84 patients univariate analysis of 39 factors revealed 8 factors related to restenosis : recurrence of angina ( p less than 0.0001 ) , postangioplasty abnormal finding on exercise thallium-201 scintigram ( p less than 0.0001 ) , exercise thallium-201 scintigram score ( p less than 0.0001 ) , difference between exercise and rest st segment depression ( p less than 0.001 ) , postangioplasty exercise st segment depression ( p less than 0.001 ) , absolute postangioplasty stenosis diameter ( p less than 0.003 ) , postangioplasty exercise work load ( p less than 0.03 ) and postangioplasty exercise heart rate ( p less than 0.05 ) . 
results of coronary surgery after failed elective coronary angioplasty in patients with prior coronary surgery the results of coronary artery bypass surgery after failed elective coronary angioplasty in patients who have undergone prior coronary surgery are unknown . coronary angioplasty may be performed to relieve angina after surgery either to the native coronary vessels or to grafts . failure of attempted coronary angioplasty may mandate repeat coronary surgery , often in the setting of acute ischemia . from 1980 to 1989 , 1,263 patients with prior coronary bypass surgery underwent angioplasty ; of these patients , 46 ( 3.6 % ) underwent reoperation for failed angioplasty during the same hospital stay . of the 46 patients who underwent reoperation , 33 had and 13 did not have acute ischemia . in the group with ischemia , 3 patients ( 9.1 % ) died and 14 ( 42.4 % ) died or had a q wave myocardial infarction in the hospital compared with no deaths ( p = ns ) and no deaths or q wave myocardial infarction ( p = 0.005 ) in the group without ischemia . at 3 years , the actuarial survival rate was 88 + / - 6 % in the group with ischemia , whereas there were no deaths in the group without ischemia ( p = ns ) , and freedom from death or myocardial infarction was 51 + / - 10 % in the group with ischemia , versus no events in the group without ischemia ( p = 0.006 ) . in most patients with prior coronary bypass surgery , coronary angioplasty was performed without the need for repeat coronary bypass surgery . should coronary angioplasty fail , reoperation in patients without acute ischemia can be performed with overall patient survival comparable to that of elective reoperative coronary bypass without coronary angioplasty . 
serial left ventricular performance evaluated by cardiac catheterization before , immediately after and at 6 months after balloon aortic valvuloplasty . although impaired ventricular function has been shown to improve after aortic valve replacement , there are few data on hemodynamic changes after balloon aortic valvuloplasty based on follow-up catheterization . of 71 patients surviving 6 months after balloon aortic valvuloplasty , 41 agreed to late recatheterization . all patients had pre - and postvalvuloplasty and 6 month catheterization data measured with high fidelity micromanometer pressure recordings and simultaneous digital subtraction left ventriculography . the hemodynamic result immediately after valvuloplasty included a reduction in the aortic valve gradient and a moderate increase in aortic valve area ( 0.51 + / - 0.14 to 0.81 + / - 0.19 cm2 , p less than 0.0001 ) . ejection fraction increased slightly ( 52 + / - 18 to 55 + / - 17 % , p less than 0.0001 ) despite a decrease in peak positive rate of rise of left ventricular pressure ( dp/dt 1,650 + / - 460 to 1,500 + / - 490 mm hg/s , p less than 0.05 ) . there was also a decrease in left ventricular afterload and a small decrease in preload . at 6 month recatheterization , the mean aortic valve gradient and area were similar to baseline values , with 31 ( 76 % ) of 41 patients demonstrating valvular restenosis . at 6 months many left ventricular hemodynamic variables , including peak positive dp/dt and stroke work , also resembled prevalvuloplasty values . however , left ventricular end-diastolic volume was reduced ( 111 + / - 40 ml at 6 months versus 136 + / - 52 ml before valvuloplasty , p less than 0.01 ) . the mean left ventricular ejection fraction was unchanged from prevalvuloplasty values in the study group of 41 patients , but was significantly improved in 9 of 15 patients with a baseline ejection fraction less than 50 % . 
abnormal cardiac sensitivity in patients with chest pain and normal coronary arteries . the causes of chest pain in patients found to have angiographically normal coronary arteries during cardiac catheterization remain controversial . cardiac sensitivity to catheter manipulation , pacing at various stimulus intensities and intracoronary injection of contrast medium was examined in several groups of patients who underwent cardiac catheterization . right heart ( especially right ventricular ) catheter manipulation and pacing and intracoronary contrast medium provoked chest pain typical of that previously experienced in 29 ( 81 % ) of 36 patients with chest pain and angiographically normal coronary arteries and 15 ( 46 % ) of 33 symptomatic patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . in contrast , only 2 ( 6 % ) of 33 symptomatic patients with coronary artery disease experienced their typical chest pain with these sensitivity tests ( p less than 0.001 ) . none of 10 patients with valvular heart disease but without a chest pain syndrome experienced any sensation with these tests . cutaneous pain threshold testing demonstrated that patients with chest pain and normal coronary arteries had a higher pain threshold to thermal stimulation compared with patients who had coronary artery disease or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . no relation existed between cardiac sensitivity and cutaneous sensitivity testing . thus , patients who have chest pain despite angiographically normal coronary arteries may have abnormal cardiac sensitivity to a variety of stimuli . this increased sensitivity may be of causal importance to their chest pain syndrome or may contribute to their perception of ischemia-induced pain . the same phenomenon was also commonly seen in symptomatic patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . whether this phenomenon represents abnormal activation of pain receptors within the heart or abnormal processing of visceral afferent neural impulses in the peripheral or central nervous system is unknown . 
single photon emission computed tomography with thallium-201 during adenosine-induced coronary hyperemia : correlation with coronary arteriography , exercise thallium imaging and two-dimensional echocardiography the feasibility , safety and diagnostic accuracy of single photon emission computed tomography ( spect ) with thallium-201 imaging during adenosine-induced coronary hyperemia were evaluated in 53 patients with and 7 without coronary artery disease proved by coronary angiography . adenosine was infused intravenously at a dose of 0.14 mg/kg body weight per min for 6 min and thallium was injected at 3 min . adenosine caused an increase in heart rate ( 68 + / - 12 at baseline versus 87 + / - 18 beats/min at peak effect , p less than 0.0001 ) but no change in blood pressure . the sensitivity and specificity were 92 % ( 95 % confidence intervals 81 % to 98 % ) and 100 % ( 95 % confidence intervals 59 % to 100 % ) , respectively ; 20 ( 61 % ) of 33 patients with multivessel coronary artery disease were also correctly identified . in 30 patients , the predictive accuracy of adenosine thallium imaging was slightly higher than that of exercise spect thallium imaging ( 90 % versus 80 % , p = ns ) ( 95 % confidence intervals 72 % to 97 % and 61 % to 92 % , respectively ) . in 25 patients , two-dimensional echocardiography during adenosine infusion disclosed a new wall motion abnormality in 2 ( 10 % ) of 20 patients with coronary artery disease ; 80 % of these patients had reversible thallium defects ( p less than 0.001 ) . side effects were mild and transient ; aminophylline was used in only three patients . thus , adenosine spect thallium imaging provides a high degree of accuracy in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease . the results are comparable with those of exercise spect thallium imaging . most reversible defects in the adenosine study are not associated with any transient wall motion abnormality . 
termination of acute atrial fibrillation in the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome by procainamide and propafenone : importance of atrial fibrillatory cycle length . the effects of intravenous procainamide ( n = 30 ) or propafenone ( n = 25 ) were evaluated in 55 patients with acute atrial fibrillation and the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome . all patients received either procainamide ( 12 to 15 mg/kg body weight ) or propafenone ( 1 to 2 mg/kg ) during sustained ( greater than 10 min ) atrial fibrillation or after termination of nonsustained atrial fibrillation . termination of atrial fibrillation was attributed to a drug if it occurred less than or equal to 15 min after infusion . measurements included mean cycle length of fibrillatory electrograms ( mean aa interval ) as measured at the high right atrium and shortest rr interval between pre-excited cycles during atrial fibrillation . atrial fibrillation terminated more frequently after procainamide administration ( 65 % ) than after propafenone ( 46 % ) , although this difference was not significant . procainamide prolonged the shortest pre-excited rr interval ( 228 + / - 41 to 339 + / - 23 ms , p = 0.0001 ) as did propafenone ( 215 + / - 40 to 415 + / - 198 ms , p = 0.0001 ) and the magnitude of increase was greater for propafenone ( p = 0.048 ) . patients with sustained atrial fibrillation had shorter mean aa intervals than did their counterparts with nonsustained atrial fibrillation ( 123 + / - 25 versus 186 + / - 35 ms , p = 0.0001 ) . termination of sustained atrial fibrillation by either drug was accompanied by prolongation of the mean aa interval but not necessarily by the shortest pre-excited rr interval . termination of atrial fibrillation was heralded by a 68 % increase in the mean aa interval after procainamide administration compared with a 30 % increase when the arrhythmia persisted . for propafenone the increases were 90 % and 68 % , respectively . 
plaque morphology and pathologic changes in arteries from patients dying after coronary balloon angioplasty morphologic correlates of pathologic success or failure were studied at autopsy in 28 patients with 40 coronary arteries that had been subjected to balloon angioplasty . the presence of the following histologic features was evaluated : plaque concentricity or eccentricity , calcification , fibrous or fibropultaceous plaque , medial disruption , luminal thrombus and inflammation . angioplasty was considered successful ( residual cross-sectional luminal area greater than 25 % ) on pathologic examination in 14 arteries and unsuccessful in 26 arteries . eccentric plaques were more likely to be successfully dilated than were concentric lesions ( p less than 0.05 ) . six ( 50 % ) of 12 fibropultaceous plaques were successfully dilated compared with only 8 ( 29 % ) of 28 fibrous plaques . moderate to severe calcification did not preclude morphologic success . medial stretching or dissection , or both , was more often associated with a successful result . thus , plaque morphology may be an important determinant of pathologic outcome after coronary angioplasty . 
coronary morphology after percutaneous directional coronary atherectomy in humans : autopsy analysis of three patients . the morphologic basis of angiographically successful percutaneous directional atherectomy and subsequent restenosis in human coronary arteries is unknown . the clinical and pathologic features of three patients who died after coronary atherectomy are described . tissue fragments obtained with atherectomy demonstrated atheromatous and fibroproliferative intima , media and adventitia . at autopsy , treated vascular segments ( from the left anterior descending artery in two patients and a vein graft in one patient ) demonstrated discrete defects in the vascular wall . defects extending into atheroma , media or adventitia corresponded with the presence of these tissues in the atherectomy specimens . tissues were otherwise not disrupted in the manner associated with balloon angioplasty . acute mural thrombus deposition was evident in the resection zone in one patient . late findings included fibroproliferative intimal tissue extending from the resected areas into the vascular lumen . in one patient intimal hyperplasia was sufficient to narrow the vascular lumen by 82 % and was implicated in subsequent myocardial ischemia and infarction . the study indicates that 1 ) the vascular injury associated with atherectomy is distinct from that associated with balloon angioplasty , 2 ) acute mural thrombus deposition may occur even with resection limited to the intima , and 3 ) intimal hyperplasia may develop in regions treated with atherectomy and may be associated with late myocardial ischemia and infarction . 
intracardiac shunting in children with ventricular septal defect : evaluation with doppler color flow mapping in children with a ventricular septal defect , transseptal blood flow has been demonstrated angiographically to be bidirectional in all but the smallest defects . to investigate this phenomenon noninvasively , two-dimensional doppler color flow echocardiography was used in 77 patients ( aged 1 day to 15.5 years , mean 24 months ) . during isovolumetric contraction , flow was seen from the left to the right ventricle in 82 ( 98 % ) of 84 studies . during isovolumetric relaxation , right to left flow was noted in 72 ( 96 % ) of 75 studies . during early diastole in patients with an isolated defect , flow was initially from the right to the left ventricle and subsequently reversed to become left to right in 29 ( 91 % ) of 32 studies . in patients with concomitant right ventricular volume overload , flow across the ventricular defect was from the right to the left ventricle throughout diastole in 30 ( 86 % ) of 35 studies . in each of four patients with d-transposition of the great vessels and each of two patients with 1-transposition of the great vessels , blood flow was from the morphologic left ventricle to the morphologic right ventricle during isovolumetric contraction and from the morphologic right ventricle to the morphologic left ventricle during isovolumetric relaxation . these results demonstrate 1 ) the complex nature of intracardiac shunting in children with ventricular septal defect as previously shown by angiography ; 2 ) an intrinsic functional difference in the contractile and relaxation properties of the morphologic left and right ventricles ; and 3 ) differences in diastolic blood flow patterns between children with an isolated defect and those with a ventricular septal defect and right ventricular volume overload ( p = 0.0001 ) . 
results of the arterial switch operation in patients with transposition of the great arteries and abnormalities of the mitral valve or left ventricular outflow tract . between january 1983 and october 1989 , 290 patients underwent an arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries ; 30 ( 10.3 % ) of the patients had abnormalities of the left ventricular outflow tract or mitral valve , or both . these abnormalities included isolated pulmonary valve stenosis ( n = 9 ) , septal ( dynamic ) subpulmonary stenosis ( n = 5 ) , anatomic ( fixed ) subpulmonary stenosis ( n = 7 ) , abnormal mitral chordae attachments ( n = 2 ) or a combination of abnormalities ( n = 7 ) . there were two early deaths , one of which was due to previously unrecognized mitral stenosis and a subpulmonary ( neo-aortic ) membrane and one late death due to presumed coronary obstruction . of the nine patients with pulmonary valve abnormalities due to either a bicommissural ( n = 5 ) or a thickened tricommissural ( n = 4 ) valve , only one underwent valvotomy . peak systolic ejection gradients in these nine patients measured preoperatively ranged from 0 to 50 mm hg . at follow-up study 5 to 30 months postoperatively , the neo-aortic valve gradient was less than or equal to 15 mm hg in all patients ; three patients had mild neo-aortic regurgitation . preoperative gradients may overestimate the degree of obstruction because of the increased pulmonary blood flow present in transposition . no patient with " dynamic " subpulmonary obstruction before the arterial switch operation had a surgical procedure performed on the left ventricular outflow tract ; none had evidence of subaortic obstruction after the arterial switch . 
is banding of the pulmonary trunk obsolete for infants with tricuspid atresia and double inlet ventricle with a discordant ventriculoarterial connection ? role of aortic arch obstruction and subaortic stenosis banding the pulmonary trunk may exacerbate or promote the development of subaortic stenosis in patients with double inlet ventricle or tricuspid atresia with a dominant left ventricle and discordant ventriculoarterial connection and , therefore , may be an inappropriate palliative procedure for such patients . to examine this possibility , 102 consecutive infants were studied who presented with this anatomy between 1972 and 1987 . obstruction of the aortic arch was present in 52 patients . in 28 patients ( 17 with aortic arch obstruction ) , subaortic stenosis was already apparent at presentation . of the remaining 74 patients , 19 received no palliative surgery and 55 underwent banding of the pulmonary trunk either with ( n = 22 ) or without ( n = 33 ) aortic arch repair . outcome was significantly worse in patients with associated aortic arch obstruction . all such patients either died or developed subaortic stenosis by 3 years of age ( survival free of subaortic stenosis 0 of 22 versus 22 of 33 for patients with isolated banding of the pulmonary trunk , p less than 0.001 ) . after isolated banding , there was a lower ratio of the ventricular septal defect to ascending aorta diameters at presentation in the patients who developed subaortic stenosis than in the patients who did not ( 0.60 + / - 0.08 versus 1.03 + / - 0.15 , p less than 0.001 ) . of the latter , 18 ( 95 % ) of 19 patients fulfilled criteria for a fontan procedure at recatheterization . thus , the presence of aortic arch obstruction is associated with rapid development of subaortic stenosis after banding of the pulmonary trunk . alternative initial surgery , even though high risk , may be indicated . in the absence of such obstruction , banding the pulmonary trunk can be performed at reasonable risk and , provided that the ventricular septal defect is of adequate size , satisfactorily prepares most patients for a later fontan procedure . 
long-term follow-up of patients after transcatheter direct current ablation of the atrioventricular junction . the long-term follow-up study ( 41 + / - 23 months ) of 47 patients undergoing direct current ablation because of drug-resistant supraventricular arrhythmias is reported . significant early complications occurred in four patients and included hypotension , pericarditis , nonsustained polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and one sudden death . in 42 patients ( 86 % ) , complete atrioventricular ( av ) block was initially achieved . during the follow-up period , av conduction resumed in 2 of these 42 patients . of the seven patients in whom ablation was unsuccessful , two developed late complete av block and three had symptomatic improvement . an improved activity level was reported among 83 % of the patients with successful ablation . health care utilization manifest as the number of hospital admissions per year before and after ablation decreased significantly after ablation ( 2.4 + / - 2.0 versus 0.3 + / - 0.5 , p less than 0.001 ) . echocardiographic evaluation in five patients with a depressed left ventricular ejection fraction ( 27 + / - 7 % ) before ablation showed a significant increase ( 45 + / - 14 % , p less than 0.05 ) after an average follow-up period of 31 months . new onset of congestive heart failure occurred after ablation in four patients , of whom two had no structural heart disease . the total mortality rate , including the one patient with sudden death , was 17 % and was significantly higher among patients with underlying structural heart disease . transcatheter direct current ablation is an effective treatment in patients with drug-resistant supraventricular tachycardia , providing a beneficial long-term outcome including an improved quality of life and a decrease in health care utilization . 
dissociation of changes in cardiovascular mass and performance with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in wistar-kyoto and spontaneously hypertensive rats . the effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors on cardiovascular mass and function were measured in three groups of 22 week old male wistar-kyoto normotensive and spontaneously hypertensive rats treated with cgs-16617 , cilazapril or quinapril . left ventricular performance was assessed by electromagnetic flow meter during rapid whole blood infusion before and after arterial pressure and increased abruptly with aortic snare ; aortic distensibility also was assessed in vitro . the systemic hemodynamic effects of these three agents were similar , yet their structural effects varied . although left ventricular and aortic masses diminished and right ventricular mass remained unchanged ( with all three agents ) in the spontaneously hypertensive rats , cgs-11617 and cilazapril also reduced left ventricular mass in the normotensive wistar-kyoto rats without changing aortic mass . all three agents improved aortic distensibility whether or not mass was decreased . left ventricular structural changes were associated with variable changes in pumping ability . these data show that reduced mass associated with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor treatment was not consistent in ventricles and aorta , that a dissociation exists between structural and functional changes and that reduction of cardiac mass alone does not relate to changes in chamber mass or in function . thus , biologic and pharmacodynamic differences exist among angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors as well as between classes of antihypertensive agents . 
circulating heart-reactive antibodies in patients with myocarditis or cardiomyopathy [ corrected and republished with original paging , article originally printed in j am coll cardiol 1990 oct ; 16 ( 4 ) :839 -46 ] heart-reactive antibodies are commonly observed in patients with myocarditis or cardiomyopathy . such antibodies may be important in the pathogenesis of these disorders , yet the specific antigens recognized have not been studied systematically . this report characterizes circulating heart autoantibodies from patients with myocarditis ( n = 17 ) or idiopathic cardiomyopathy ( n = 71 ) and from healthy volunteers ( n = 15 ) . indirect immunofluorescence demonstrated that high titer ( greater than or equal to 1:20 ) immunoglobulin g ( igg ) antibody activity occurred in 59 % of the myocarditis samples , 20 % of the cardiomyopathy samples and none of the normal samples . all samples were tested by western immunoblotting for igg activity against a normal human heart extract . the number of antigens recognized by each sample was enumerated and the molecular weight of each antigen estimated ; the prevalence of reactivity against antigens in selected molecular weight classes was determined . there was no difference in the mean number of heart antigens recognized by serum from each group . for most weight classes , prevalence either did not differ significantly among the various groups or subgroups or was greatest among samples from healthy volunteers . prevalence of reactivity with 190 to 199 kilodalton ( kd ) antigens was greatest ( p less than 0.05 ) among low titer serum samples from patients with myocarditis . high titer cardiomyopathy serum differed from normal serum by an increased ( p less than 0.05 ) prevalence of antibodies to 40 to 49 and 100 to 109 kd antigens . these results suggest that western immunostaining may ultimately contribute substantively to identifying patients with myocarditis or cardiomyopathy . 
diagnostic value of a new myocardial perfusion agent , teboroxime ( so 30,217 ) , utilizing a rapid planar imaging protocol : preliminary results [ corrected and republished with original paging , article originally printed in j am coll cardiol 1990 oct ; 16 ( 4 ) :855 -61 ] technetium-99m-labeled agents have advantages over thallium-201 in terms of photon statistics , cost and clinical availability . they have been suggested as an alternative to thallium for myocardial perfusion imaging . teboroxime is a new boronic acid adduct of technetium dioxime ( bato ) compound that demonstrates favorable characteristics in preliminary studies . with use of a novel ( seated ) patient positioning technique and a rapid dynamic acquisition protocol , 30 patients underwent planar imaging with teboroxoime while at rest and after maximal treadmill exercise . postexercise scans were completed in an average time ( mean + / - sd ) of 4.4 + / - 1.6 min , with 4.8 + / - 1.5 min for the views at rest . these results were compared with coronary arteriography or thallium scintigraphy after treadmill exercise , or both . diagnostic agreement ( abnormal versus normal ) was present in 28 of the 30 patients ( p less than 0.001 ) . regarding physiologic assessment as compared with thallium scintigraphy , the finding of infarction and ischemia was concordant in 89 % and 86 % of patients , respectively . this report describes the initial use of teboroxime with a rapid dynamic planar imaging technique , resulting in a high correlation with exercise thallium scintigraphy . delayed postexercise images obtained 5 to 10 min after exercise demonstrated rapid disappearance of exercise-induced defects noted on the initial ( 0 to 5 min ) postexercise views . the rapid differential washout with teboroxime has not been previously described and the possible clinical significance is discussed . 
plasma dehydroepiandrosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate in patients undergoing diagnostic coronary angiography [ corrected and republished with original paging , article originally printed in j am coll cardiol 1990 oct ; 16 ( 4 ) :862 -70 ] serum levels of dhea sulfate are inversely associated with cardiovascular death in men , and urinary dehydroepiandrosterone ( dhea ) levels are inversely associated with clinical manifestations of coronary artery disease . these observations may be related to the antiproliferative effects of dhea , resulting in inhibition of atherosclerotic intimal hyperplasia . to examine the relation between these steroids and a direct measure of coronary atherosclerosis , plasma dhea and dhea sulfate levels were determined in 206 middle-aged patients ( 103 men , 103 women ) undergoing elective coronary angiography . plasma dhea sulfate levels were lower in men with at least one stenosis greater than or equal to 50 % compared with those without any stenosis greater than or equal to 50 % ( 4.9 + / - 2.7 versus 6.1 + / - 3.5 nmol/ml , p = 0.05 ) . levels of dhea sulfate were also inversely related to the number of diseased coronary vessels ( r = -0.20 , p = 0.05 ) and a continuous measure of the extent of coronary atherosclerosis ( r = -0.25 , p = 0.01 ) in men . the association between dhea sulfate levels and extent of coronary artery disease was independent of age and other conventional risk factors for coronary disease . in women , there was no association between plasma dhea or dhea sulfate levels and coronary disease . these data demonstrate a consistent , independent , inverse , dose-response relation between plasma dhea sulfate levels and angiographically defined coronary atherosclerosis in men . plasma dhea sulfate may be another important and potentially modifiable risk factor for the development and progression of coronary atherosclerosis . 
acute hemorrhagic edema of infancy ( ahei ) -- a variant of henoch-schonlein purpura or a distinct clinical entity ? acute hemorrhagic edema of infancy ( ahei ) is an acute cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis ( lcv ) of infants . the clinical picture has a violent onset with a short benign course followed by spontaneous complete recovery . we report 12 infants with ahei who were studied clinically , serologically , and immunohistologically . edema and palpable purpuric skin lesions were present in all infants who were in good general condition . serologic studies were unremarkable . light microscopic examination of the skin biopsy specimens revealed lcv as in henoch-schonlein purpura ( hsp ) . direct immunofluorescent study revealed depositions of various immunoreactants , including fibrinogen , c3 , igg , igm , iga , and ige ( 100 % , 100 % , 22 % , 78 % , 33 % , and 33 % , respectively ) in the wall and around the small vessels . similar deposition of clq was also present in three infants in whom clq could be studied ( 100 % ) . the clinical similarities and differences between ahei and hsp have been discussed in the literature . ahei is observed before 2 years of age and is confined to the skin . the skin lesions of hsp are more polymorphic . although histopathologic findings are similar , the immunohistologic pattern found in our series of ahei is rather different from the pattern of hsp . taking all of these findings into account , we suggest that ahei should be considered as a separate , clinicopathologic entity or a possible variant of hsp . the more descriptive term " acute benign cutaneous lcv of infancy " is offered for this clinicopathologic entity . 
cholesterol screening in 5,719 self-referred elderly subjects . to assess the frequency of hypercholesterolemia as a potential major public health problem in the elderly , we studied 5,719 self-referred subjects greater than age 60 and 11,890 less than or equal to 60 years , whose nonfasting capillary blood cholesterol levels were measured during an 18-month screening in cincinnati area grocery stores . we followed national cholesterol education program guidelines for serum cholesterol ( less than 200 mg/dl " desirable , " 200-239 " borderline-high , " and greater than or equal to 240 mg/dl " high " ) . of 4,011 61-70 year-olds , only 19 % had capillary blood total cholesterol less than 200 , 38 % were 200-239 , and 43 % greater than or equal to 240 mg/dl . of 1,493 aged 71-80 years , only 20 % had total cholesterol less than 200 , 36 % had levels 200-239 , and 44 % were greater than or equal to 240 mg/dl . in 215 subjects , 81 and over , 29 % had total cholesterol less than 200 , 36 % were 200-239 , and 35 % were greater than or equal to 240 mg/dl . application of the non-age , non-race , non-sex specific national cholesterol education program guidelines to the elderly may necessitate followup and perhaps therapy in 71-81 % of subjects , suggesting that the appropriate intervention approach be general population-oriented , rather than the individual detection , diagnosis , and treatment approach which presents a huge , expensive load for a relatively unprepared health care community . 
hypertension and acculturation in elderly mexican americans : results from 1982-84 hispanic hanes . the purpose of our study was to describe the relationship between acculturation and hypertension in elderly mexican americans . two age groups , 55-64 and 65-74 , were examined from data provided in the hispanic health and nutrition examination survey ( hhanes ) . the prevalence of hypertension among subgroups of different acculturation was ascertained based on the modified cuellar acculturation scale . each age group was also stratified using the hhanes poverty index , with those above the index compared to those below . a stepwise logistic regression was performed among the variables of poverty , gender , age , and acculturation in relation to hypertension . the results indicate that acculturation and age are stronger predictors of hypertension than poverty in elderly mexican americans , with acculturation being a stronger predictor among those age 55-64 . factors related to acculturation may have a stronger influence on the prevalence of hypertension in older mexican americans than differences related to socioeconomic status . 
chylous ascites should suggest constrictive pericarditis even in a patient with cirrhosis . chylous ascites , a milky , high triglyceride fluid is usually found in patients with lymphatic obstruction from malignancy . we describe a patient with cirrhosis who developed constrictive pericarditis and chylous ascites . long-standing portal hypertension compounded by elevated central venous pressure provided several pathophysiologic contributions to the formation of the chylous ascites . chylous ascites even in a cirrhotic requires prompt assessment for conditions leading to elevated central venous pressure . 
ultrasound-doppler diagnosis of budd-chiari syndrome . we report a case of apparently idiopathic budd-chiari syndrome , diagnosed by ultrasound and doppler sonography , in a patient with latent myeloproliferative disease . this case proves that doppler sonography shows in the hepatic veins a flow pattern suggestive of partial thrombotic obstruction . moreover , we suggest that the search for a latent myeloproliferative disorder , by means of the spontaneous erythroid colonies formation in culture of bone marrow or blood mononuclear cells , should be routinely included in the diagnostic evaluation of each case of hepatic vein thrombosis without other recognizable causes . 
portal venous gas in a patient with crohn 's disease . portal venous gas usually occurs in the setting of an acute abdomen . several causes for benign portal venous gas ( pvg ) have been reported . we describe the finding of pvg by computed tomography in a febrile patient with crohn 's disease and discuss the clinical implications of such a finding . 
pneumococcal anticapsular antibodies in patients with chronic cardiovascular and obstructive lung disease in the netherlands . differences in pneumococcal anticapsular antibody concentrations were assessed among patients with various chronic disorders and among young ( 25-35 years of age ) and older adults ( 55-65 years ) . antibody concentrations were determined by elisa , using the whole 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine as antigen . no differences in mean or distribution of serum antibody concentrations were found among young adults ( either healthy or asthmatic ) or among older adults ( healthy or with chronic obstructive pulmonary or chronic cardiovascular disease ) . each group included individuals with low antibody levels . therefore , the enhanced susceptibility to pneumococcal infections reported for some groups at risk , that is , elderly individuals and patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary or chronic cardiovascular disease , can not be attributed solely to low anticapsular antibody concentrations . 
neisseria mucosa endocarditis . a case of neisseria mucosa tricuspid valve endocarditis in an intravenous drug abuser is described . the patient was treated initially with intravenous penicillin g followed by oral penicillin vk but relapsed . he was cured after 4 weeks of combined therapy with penicillin g and gentamicin . in vitro synergy studies performed on the patient 's and two other isolates revealed synergy in all three . thus , combination therapy is recommended for treatment of recalcitrant cases of bacterial endocarditis caused by n. mucosa . 
substance p , acetylcholinesterase , and beta-endorphin levels in the plasma and pericardial fluid of patients with and without angina pectoris . we measured substance p-like immunoreactivity ( spli ) , beta-endorphin-like immunoreactivity ( beli ) , acetylcholinesterase activity , and total protein content in pericardial fluid and plasma of patients with angina pectoris and patients with no angina pectoris . spli and beli levels , acetylcholinesterase activity , and total protein content were determined by radioimmunoassay , a colorimetric method , and by the method of lowry et al . ( j biol chem 1951 ; 193:265 -75 ) , respectively . in the pericardial fluid , patients with angina had spli , beli , acetylcholinesterase , and total protein values of 1.69 + / - 0.23 fmol/mg protein , 0.16 + / - 0.13 fmol/mg protein , 0.06 + / - 0.02 units , and 25.7 + / - 3.2 mg/ml , respectively . patients with no angina had spli , beli , acetylcholinesterase , and total protein values of 0.93 + / - 0.17 fmol/mg protein , 0.19 + / - 0.10 fmol/mg protein , 0.16 + / - 0.02 units , and 44.6 + / - 5.3 mg/ml , respectively . spli levels were significantly higher ( p less than 0.03 ) , and acetylcholinesterase ( less than 0.002 ) and total protein content ( less than 0.004 ) were significantly lower in the pericardial fluid of patients with angina when compared with those of patients with no angina . beli levels were not significantly different between the two groups . in the plasma , no significant differences were found in spli , beli , acetylcholinesterase , and total protein values between the two groups of patients . patients with angina had spli , beli , acetylcholinesterase , and total protein values of 0.47 + / - 0.26 fmol/mg protein , 0.06 + / - 0.06 fmol/mg protein , 0.29 + / - 0.15 units , and 68.2 + / - 8.7 mg/ml , respectively . 
deposits of crystalline material containing silicon in surgically excised human valves . ninety-seven surgically excised natural cardiac valves were examined by scanning electron microscopy and x-ray energy spectroscopy to assess the occurrence of crystalline deposits that contain the element silicon . valves examined included 33 mitral valves , 63 aortic valves , and 1 tricuspid valve . to reduce the possibility of surface contamination , the deep layers of some valves were examined after exposure by fracture of the valve . crystalline material containing silicon was observed in the deep tissue . such crystalline material was sometimes entwined within subendothelial fibers . crystalline deposits that contained silicon were associated with 34 of 97 of these valves ( 35 % ) . among the 34 valves that showed silicon , 24 ( 71 % ) also showed microdeposits of calcific material . in view of evidence that silicon may participate in the calcification of bone , and is found in the intima of arteries , a role for this element in ectopic calcification of valves may exist . 
exacerbation of acute platelet thrombus formation in stenosed dog coronary arteries with smoke from a non-tobacco-burning cigarette . the tobacco industry proposes to release a " new " cigarette with a burning charcoal tip , which heats the tobacco as air is drawn through it and into the lungs of the smoker . it is claimed to be safer because the tobacco does not burn . using our established canine model of coronary artery stenosis with moderate intimal damage , we compared this new cigarette ( 0.4 mg nicotine ) with a regular cigarette by ventilating dogs ( n = 10 ) with room air and then either new or regular smoke ( two cigarettes over about 10 minutes ) . in our dog model , periodic acute platelet thrombus formation followed by embolization produced cyclical flow reductions in coronary blood flow where the rate of flow decline was proportional to the degree of in vivo platelet-vessel wall interaction . the rate of flow decline increased from -4.81 + / - 1.29 ml/min2 to -9.60 + / - 2.29 ml/min2 after ventilation with the new-type smoke ( p less than 0.01 ) . similarly , the rate of flow decline increased from -5.43 + / - 1.28 ml/min2 to -9.28 + / - 2.31 ml/min2 after ventilation with regular cigarette smoke ( p less than 0.01 ) . despite the lack of a clear causal link between cigarette smoking and the acute manifestations of cardiovascular disease , the data presented here indicate that the new cigarette is just as potent as regular cigarettes at increasing in vivo platelet activity and exacerbating acute platelet thrombus formation in the dog . we conclude that the new proposed non-tobacco-burning cigarette has deleterious effects similar to those of conventional cigarettes , and thus does not eliminate smoking as a risk factor in cardiovascular disease in human beings . 
cardiac pathology in 470 consecutive forensic autopsies . cardiovascular disease continues to be the single most common generic cause of sudden and unexpected deaths . atherosclerotic coronary heart disease and acute myocardial infarction are the most prevalent forms of fatal cardiac disease observed at autopsy . other cardiac lesions are frequently listed as causes of death , but the prevalence of such lesions as incidental findings in the general population is unknown . in this study , 470 consecutive forensic autopsies were evaluated for minor and major anomalies . the most frequently observed major congenital finding was floppy mitral valve ( 5 % ) . tunneled coronary arteries , considered minor congenital findings , were seen in 29 % . atherosclerotic coronary heart disease was the most common major acquired finding , observed in 16 % of cases . of the 470 hearts , only 8 % were considered normal . 
causes of death in hospitalized intravenous drug abusers . the authors reviewed at autopsy the causes of death of 274 patients with evidence of intravenous drug abuse who had been admitted to a large public hospital . there were 127 who died from diseases unrelated to intravenous drug abuse , and in 41 % of these , chronic alcoholism was implicated . deaths from overdose syndromes and drug-related organ pathology comprised only 11 % of all cases . the mean age at death was 39 years . there was a male/female ratio of 3.6:1 . half of all patients died from infection -- 72 from acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) alone . these findings indicate that persons hospitalized with a history of intravenous drug abuse usually die from causes other than overdose and that aids and chronic alcoholism are significant problems . emphasis should be placed upon detecting " hidden " intravenous drug deaths to provide more accurate statistical information . 
resistance to ischaemia of small afferent nerve fibres in diabetes mellitus . thermal thresholds were measured in the left forearms of 26 healthy subjects and 10 patients with diabetes mellitus during ischaemic compression block . during the period when ischaemic block of large fibres caused paraesthesia and loss of touch sensation , the cold threshold rose in normals . the cold threshold was less clearly elevated and the warm perception remained unaltered by ischaemia in diabetics . these results show that not only large afferent and efferent nerve fibres but also thinly myelinated a delta and unmyelinated c fibres are resistant to ischaemia in the diabetic nerve . 
cardiac transplantation in female emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy . a young woman with humeroperoneal muscular dystrophy and contractures received a heart transplant for a severe dilated cardiomyopathy . cardiac histopathology consisted of myocyte hypertrophy , interstitial fibrosis , and nuclear hyperchromaticity without mitochondrial abnormalities . myopathy and heart disease were not clinically evident in her family , although three relatives had unexplained shortened achilles tendons without weakness . tendon contractures may be a partial expression of this myopathic disorder , suggesting an autosomal dominant inheritance with variable penetrance . a muscular dystrophy clinically similar to that of the emery-dreifuss ( edmd ) type can thus occur in women . rather than the cardiac arrhythmias typical of edmd , a dilated cardiomyopathy may occur and present with severe congestive heart failure . this is the first report of cardiac transplantation in such a case . 
electrocardiographic ambulatory monitoring with a real-time analysis system . the analysis of records collected during long-term ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring has traditionally involved the review of massive data , either manually or with the aid of interactive scanning computers . many factors complicate this analysis , including the use of analog tape for storage of electrocardiographic waveforms , the need to analyze 100,000 waveforms from an average 24-hour study , and the need to deal with an interface that compresses 24 hours of data into as little as 6 minutes on a screen . today , the computer incorporated in the monitor can scrutinize each cardiac cycle in real time . the system produces a statistical report based on every heart beat and also performs data reduction and storage of electrocardiograph samples . to assess real-time analysis we examined data collected from the circadian circamed ambulatory electrocardiography system . we found that it could detect and quantify simple or complex ventricular ectopic beats , brady - or tachyarrhythmic events , and st-segment deviation . one hundred fifty patients 21 to 85 years old with symptoms or clinical finding suggestive of ischemia , cardiac arrhythmia , or conductive defects were referred to our electrocardiography laboratory for ambulatory monitoring . the results demonstrate that this system can detect the full range of cardiac disease found with the traditional method . of the 150 patients , ambulatory electrocardiographic tests were positive in 93 ( 62 % ) . in addition , we developed a methodology for lead placement when using two bipolar leads , as is typical for ambulatory electrocardiography . we present a procedure for determining the optimum lead placement that is based on the patient 's history and a 12-lead electrocardiogram . 
high - versus standard-dose megestrol acetate in women with advanced breast cancer : a phase iii trial of the piedmont oncology association . one hundred seventy-two patients with advanced breast cancer were randomized to receive oral standard-dose megestrol acetate ( ma ) , 160 mg/d or high-dose ma , 800 mg/d . all but two patients had one prior trial of tamoxifen therapy for either metastatic disease ( 74 % ) or as adjuvant treatment ( 26 % ) . pretreatment characteristics were similar for both arms . high-dose ma resulted in a superior complete plus partial response rate ( 27 % v 10 % , p = .005 ) , time to treatment failure ( median , 8.0 v 3.2 months , p = .019 ) , and survival ( median , 22.4 v 16.5 months , p = .04 ) when compared with standard-dose therapy . these differences remained significant after adjustment for other covariates . thirty-four patients were given high-dose ma after failure of standard-dose ma treatment , and none responded . weight gain was the most distressing side effect , with 13 % of standard-dose and 43 % of high-dose patients gaining more than 20 lbs . four major cardiovascular events occurred in patients receiving high-dose treatment and one in patients given standard doses . other toxicity was modest . high-dose ma may represent a significant improvement in secondary endocrine therapy for advanced breast cancer patients refractory to initial endocrine treatment , but its use on a regular basis should be reserved until these results are confirmed by other clinical trials . 
epirubicin cardiotoxicity : a study of 135 patients with advanced breast cancer . the cardiotoxicity of epirubicin ( epi ) was evaluated clinically , radiologically , with ecg , and with multiple ecg-gated radionuclide determination of the left ventricular ejection fraction ( lvef ) during rest in 135 patients with advanced breast cancer . the epi doses were 60 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8 every 4 weeks or 45 mg/m2 plus vindesine 3 mg/m2 on the same schedule . the median cumulative dose of epi was 500 mg/m2 ( range , 47 to 1,563 ) . eight of the 135 patients developed congestive heart failure ( chf ) . of 67 patients treated with epi less than 500 mg/m2 , none developed chf . among 48 patients treated with doses between 500 and 1,000 mg/m2 , one had chf ( 2 % ; 95 % confidence limits , 0.1 to 11.1 ) . among 20 patients who received epi from 1,000 to 1,563 mg/m2 , seven developed chf ( 35 % ; 95 % confidence limits , 15.4 to 59.2 ) . four patients died due to cardiotoxicity . the risk of epi cardiotoxicity at the present schedule is considerable at doses above 1,000 mg/m2 . at doses between 500 and 1,000 mg/m2 the risk of chf decreases , and at doses below 500 mg/m2 , it is negligible . for all patients , the prevalence of chf was 6 % and the sensitivity of lvef high ( 95 % ) , mainly due to the low incidence of chf . among the 20 patients who received epi at more than 1,000 mg/m2 , the prevalence of chf was 35 % and the sensitivity only 64 % . the specificity was maximally 62 % . our results suggest that lvef is of no value as a predictor for chf . 
angiographic demonstration of acute phase of intracranial arterial spasm following aneurysm rupture . case report . a case documenting the acute phase of intracranial arterial spasm following rupture of an aneurysm arising from the left internal carotid artery is reported . the patient deteriorated due to recurrent hemorrhage while undergoing angiography 12 hours after the initial aneurysm rupture . the acute deterioration was accompanied by dilatation of the ipsilateral pupil and occurred during injection of contrast material . there was delayed filling of the middle cerebral artery complex along with this narrowing . the arterial narrowing was confirmed to have completely disappeared on an angiographic series performed 14 minutes after the first series of films . the etiology of the acute vasospasm is discussed . 
subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by a fungal aneurysm of the vertebral artery as a complication of intracranial aneurysm clipping . case report . intracranial aneurysms are an uncommon manifestation of fungal infection . a case is described in which the formation of an aneurysm followed an intracranial intraoperative aspergillus infection attributable to a long period of preoperative antibiotic medication and immunosuppressive therapy with steroids . 
quantification of the reversibility of stress-induced thallium-201 myocardial perfusion defects : a multicenter trial using bull 's - eye polar maps and standard normal limits a multicenter trial was performed on 140 patients from four centers to determine the accuracy of quantitative analysis of stress/delayed thallium-201 myocardial tomograms using normal limits to assess the relative amount of reversibility of stress-induced defects . the patients were found to have 85 fixed and 124 reversible defects , as determined by visual interpretation . reversibility bull 's - eye polar maps were compared to gender-matched normal limits from 36 normals . regions were identified as reversible if their normalized difference between stress and 4 hr greater than 1.5 s.d.s. from the mean normal limits . overall agreement between experts at multicenter sites and reversibility maps was 73 % for reversible defects and 80 % of fixed defects . sensitivity in detecting reversibility was highest for the left circumflex ( 88 % ) and lowest for the right coronary ( 60 % ) . these results indicate that reversibility polar maps and normal limits offer an objective , accurate technique for determining the reversibility of stress-induced perfusion defects . 
myocardial uptake of indium-111-labeled antimyosin in acute subendocardial infarction : clinical , histochemical , and autoradiographic correlation of myocardial necrosis . indium-111-labeled antimyosin has been utilized in the diagnosis and localization of acute transmural myocardial infarction . the present report describes a patient who presented with a massive subendocardial infarction . two days after the injection of antimyosin , the patient 's clinical status markedly deteriorated and he expired . postmortem examination demonstrated severe three-vessel coronary artery disease with extensive myocyte death in the endocardium . autoradiography and histochemical staining of the prosected heart demonstrated high correlation for myocardial necrosis and corresponded to clinical evidence for diffuse subendocardial infarction . 
impact of the availability of a prior electrocardiogram on the triage of the patient with acute chest pain study objective : to determine whether information from a prior electrocardiogram ( ecg ) improves diagnostic accuracy in the emergency department ( ed ) evaluation of patients with acute chest pain . design : analysis of prospectively collected data from a cohort study . setting : emergency departments of four community and three university hospitals . patients : 5,673 patients aged greater than or equal to 30 years who presented to the eds of participating hospitals for evaluation of acute chest pain , including 772 ( 14 % ) with acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) . measurements and main results : after adjusting for clinical characteristics , no significant difference was found in the sensitivities of admission to the hospital or to the coronary care unit ( ccu ) between ami patients with and without prior ecgs available for review . however , non-ami patients with prior ecgs available for review were more likely to avoid ccu admission than were non-ami patients without prior ecgs . this improvement in specificity was most marked in the 2,024 patients whose current ed ecgs had changes consistent with ischemia or infarction : when a prior ecg was available , non-ami patients were more than twice as likely to be discharged ( 26 % vs. 12 % ) and about 1.5 times as likely to avoid ccu admission ( 39 % vs. 27 % ) ( both p less than 0.0001 ) . admission rates of ami patients with and without prior ecgs were similar . conclusion : when the current ecg is consistent with ischemia or infarction , the availability of a prior ecg for comparison to determine whether the ecg changes are old or new improves diagnostic accuracy and triage decisions by reducing the admission of patients without ami or acute ischemic heart disease ( increased specificity ) without reducing the admission of patients with these diagnoses ( unchanged sensitivity ) . 
management of asymptomatic chronic aortic regurgitation with left ventricular dysfunction : a decision analysis study objective : to determine the optimal strategy for the timing of aortic valve replacement in patients with chronic , severe aortic regurgitation with left ventricular dysfunction . design : decision analysis comparing early surgery ( timed at the onset of left ventricular dysfunction ) with delayed surgery ( timed at the onset of symptoms ) using data from the literature and expert opinion for variables in a representative case scenario ( 40-year-old man with bicuspid aortic valve disease ) . setting : tertiary care center doing valve replacement surgery . measurements and main results : the early-surgery approach was preferred based on quality-adjusted life years . sensitivity analysis showed that the result was not affected by the following variables within their derived ranges : rate of symptom development after onset of left ventricular dysfunction for the delayed-surgery approach , perioperative mortality for both approaches , and occurrence of major nonfatal stroke or congestive heart failure for both approaches . although the decision was sensitive to the yearly postoperative mortality rates , the delayed-surgery operative mortality rate had to be almost as low as the early-surgery rate to change the preference to the delayed-surgery approach . the preference could also change if survival were much more important to the patient in the first five years than after five years or if the patient disliked living on anticoagulants enough to value a year on anticoagulants as worth only 80 % of a year not on anticoagulants . conclusion : this decision analysis provides quantitative support for the impression that patients similar to the case scenario do better with surgery timed at the onset of ventricular dysfunction than with surgery delayed until symptoms develop . it thus supports the practice of following these patients noninvasively in order to time surgery . 
expert testimony based on decision analysis : a malpractice case report . objective : expert testimony in malpractice cases is often subjective and biased . decision-analytic techniques might provide an objective basis for such testimony . design : case report . this article reports the case of a patient with chest pain that resulted in a malpractice suit alleging a delay in diagnosis of coronary artery disease . setting : the case occurred in a private practice ; the expert witnesses and the decision analysis originated from a university teaching hospital . methods : a decision tree and threshold analysis were used to define the thresholds of disease probability at which either testing or treatment should be implemented . the expert testimony of two witnesses that exercise stress testing was the standard of care was compared with the results of the decision analysis . main results : decision analysis supported the view that cardiac catheterization would have been the more appropriate test . conclusions : techniques of decision analysis provide a structured and quantitative basis for empirical judgment and may help to minimize current problems with expert testimony . 
reflections on the u.s. preventive services task force recommendations for screening for hypertension and hypercholesterolemia . the u.s. preventive services task force recommendations for screening for hypertension and high blood cholesterol are generally consistent with preexisting national guidelines promulgated by the joint national committee for detection , evaluation , and treatment of high blood pressure and the national cholesterol education program expert panel on detection , evaluation , and treatment of high cholesterol in adults . while a welcome addition to the armamentarium of the clinician , the task force recommendations represent only a partial solution to our current epidemic of blood-pressure - and cholesterol-related cardiovascular disease . a meaningful reduction in society 's burden of cardiovascular disease can be achieved only by complementing the task force recommendations with community-based mass treatment strategies aimed at shifting the distribution of blood pressure and cholesterol toward a biologically more normal pattern . 
prevention of cardiovascular disease : risks and benefits of aspirin . aspirin has been tested for its benefit in preventing cardiovascular disease in randomized trials in three categories of patients . in secondary prevention among those with a history of myocardial infarction ( mi ) , stroke or transient cerebral ischemia , or unstable angina pectoris , 25 randomized trials demonstrated significant reductions from aspirin of 25 % for the occurrence of an " important vascular event " ( nonfatal mi , nonfatal stroke , or vascular death ) , 32 % for nonfatal mi , 27 % for nonfatal stroke , and 15 % for vascular mortality . among those evolving an mi , the second international study of infarct survival ( isis-2 ) showed a significant reduction of 23 % in five-week vascular mortality among those started on a one-month regimen of daily aspirin within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms of suspected mi . aspirin also significantly reduced reinfarction , nonfatal stroke , and important vascular events . finally , in primary prevention , the us physicians ' health study ( phs ) showed a significant 44 % reduction in the occurrence of a first mi among apparently healthy male physicians ; numbers of strokes and vascular deaths were insufficient to permit conclusions for these endpoints . thus , aspirin is of clear benefit in reducing mi , stroke , and vascular death in secondary prevention and among those evolving an mi . it is also beneficial in the primary prevention of mi among men over 40 , but data concerning its effects on stroke and vascular death remain inconclusive . 
the costs of prevention . a prevention program is cost-effective if it yields more health benefits than do alternative uses of health care resources . some prevention programs meet this standard : either they actually save more health care resources than they utilize , or their net costs per healthy year of life gained are lower than those of alternatives such as curative or palliative medicine . other prevention programs , however , are less cost-effective than are medical treatments for the same disease . one lesson for public policy is that generalizations about the cost-effectiveness of " prevention " are unwise . another lesson is that prevention programs should not be subjected to a higher standard than other health programs : they should not be expected to save money , but they should be expected to yield improved health at a reasonable price . 
acute aortic valvular incompetence following blunt thoracic deceleration injury : case report . blunt trauma leading to aortic valvular incompetence is rarely encountered , with 27 cases reported to date . all cusps and commissures are involved to a similar degree . treatment includes either reattachment of cusps to the annulus ( 80 % recurrence of incompetence ) or valvular replacement ( no recurrence ) . valve replacement is the treatment of choice for these patients . 
surgical treatment of renal artery stenosis after failed percutaneous transluminal angioplasty . from 1980 to 1989 , 53 patients with renovascular hypertension underwent surgical treatment after initial unsuccessful management with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty . renal artery stenosis was due to fibrous dysplasia in 17 patients and atherosclerosis in 36 . the reasons for failure of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty were inability to dilate the stenotic lesion ( 32 patients ) , acute renal arterial occlusion ( 2 ) or dissection ( 8 ) from attempted percutaneous transluminal angioplasty , and the development of recurrent renal artery stenosis after initially successful percutaneous transluminal angioplasty ( 11 ) . three patients underwent nephrectomy due to the finding of a nonviable kidney at operation . successful surgical revascularization was achieved in 50 patients . there was no significant fibrosis or inflammation around the previously dilated renal artery . percutaneous transluminal angioplasty necessitated performance of a more complicated revascularization operation in only 1 patient . if the kidney is viable at operation in patients treated by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty renovascular reconstruction is not more technically difficult than when done primarily and the same excellent results can be achieved . 
perioperative methotrexate , vinblastine , doxorubicin and cisplatin ( m-vac ) for poor risk transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder : an eastern cooperative oncology group pilot study . a total of 18 patients with locally advanced transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder underwent 2 preoperative cycles of chemotherapy with methotrexate , vinblastine , doxorubicin and cisplatin followed by radical cystectomy and 2 postoperative cycles of chemotherapy . radical cystectomy was performed in 17 of 18 patients ( 94 % ) with a pathological partial response in 3 ( 17 % ) and a pathological complete response in 2 ( 11 % ) , for an over-all response rate of 28 % ( 95 % confidence limits 10 to 53 % ) . at 23-month median followup 9 patients ( 50 % ) remained without evidence of recurrent disease , while 9 ( 50 % ) died of metastatic bladder cancer . average relative dose intensity of all therapy given was 78 % . hematological toxicity was moderate , with no septic deaths or bleeding complications . however , 4 thromboembolic events occurred . while downstaging of the primary bladder tumor can occur with this perioperative schedule our results were not as impressive as some previously reported findings . the incidence of thromboembolic events is worrisome . 
arteriographically determined occlusive disease within the hypogastric-cavernous bed in impotent patients following blunt perineal and pelvic trauma . to determine the presence , location and pattern of arterial occlusive disease within the hypogastric-cavernous arterial bed in impotent men following blunt perineal and pelvic trauma , we reviewed the selective internal pudendal arteriograms of 20 patients with a history of blunt perineal and 7 with blunt pelvic trauma who had immediate development of impotence . arteriographic studies of 104 other impotent patients also were reviewed and compared . patients with persistent impotence immediately after blunt pelvic and perineal trauma had significantly different patterns of arteriographically demonstrated occlusive disease within the distal hypogastric-cavernous arterial bed consistent with the site of the traumatic injury . those who sustained blunt pelvic trauma and complained of immediate impotence revealed arterial occlusive lesions mainly in the internal pudendal , common penile , cavernous and dorsal arteries . the incidence of arterial lesions in the distal internal pudendal or common penile artery was significantly higher ( p less than 0.01 ) in patients with blunt pelvic trauma ( 92 % ) than in those with blunt perineal trauma ( 35 % ) . patients who sustained blunt perineal trauma and complained of immediate impotence demonstrated a more focal pattern of pathological arterial occlusion primarily in the cavernous and dorsal arteries . the incidence of a solitary arterial lesion in the cavernous artery without proximal disease was significantly higher ( p less than 0.05 ) in patients with blunt perineal trauma ( 48 % ) than in those with blunt pelvic trauma ( 8 % ) . it is hypothesized that blunt trauma without immediate impotence may be a potential risk factor for later development of arterial vasculogenic impotence , and that unrecognized or seemingly innocuous trauma may be a factor in cases of idiopathic impotence . patients without trauma and with vascular risk factors have a more diffuse pattern of arteriographically demonstrated arterial lesions . 
pheochromocytoma in the pediatric age group : the prostate -- an unusual location . pheochromocytomas of the prostate are rare , with only 3 cases in adults reported in the literature . we present the case of an 8-year-old boy with a pheochromocytoma of the prostate and a second tumor in the region of the left internal iliac artery . 
embolization of a giant renal arterial aneurysm . a 49-year-old man presented with right flank pain . angiography revealed a giant right renal arterial aneurysm . giant renal arterial aneurysms are typically treated by nephrectomy . in this patient the aneurysm was embolized successfully with multiple gianturco-wallace coils and polyvinyl alcohol . this case indicates that embolization may be a reasonable alternative to nephrectomy . 
massive hemorrhage from an arterioureteral fistula associated with chronic renal transplant failure . a case of arterioureteral fistula from the graft artery stump of a failed transplant and the native ureter is reported . this case illustrates one of the possible complications of graft anastomosis . the etiological factors involved in the formation of the aneurysm and eventually the fistula are discussed . 
prostacyclin-to-thromboxane a2 ratio in arteriogenic impotence . it has been suggested that penile hypercoagulability predisposes to aging penile vascular changes and impotence , and that elevated thromboxane a2 during erection may contribute to hypercoagulability and atherosclerosis . since the ratio of the prostacyclin concentration to the thromboxane a2 concentration is constantly maintained in normal hemostatic responses , an imbalance between thromboxane a2 and prostacyclin may be a factor to initiate vascular diseases and decrease blood flow . we assess the usefulness of the prostacyclin-to-thromboxane a2 ratio in penile blood during erection for diagnosis of arteriogenic impotence . the ratio in the arteriogenic impotence group was significantly lower ( p less than 0.01 ) than in the psychogenic and venogenic impotence groups . therefore , the prostacyclin-to-thromboxane a2 ratio seems to be useful to diagnose arteriogenic impotence . 
renal autotransplantation in children : a successful treatment for renovascular hypertension . renovascular hypertension in children is not a common disease . with improved surgical technique the incidence of nephrectomy has decreased and renovascular reconstruction is currently the preferred method to manage this entity . between 1977 and 1988 , 21 patients with renovascular hypertension were treated at our hospital : 7 patients 6 to 16 years old underwent renal autotransplantation . of the children 4 had unilateral and 3 had bilateral disease requiring bilateral autotransplantation . autotransplantation was performed by anastomosis of each renal artery end-to-side to the common iliac artery . the renal veins were anastomosed end-to-side to the common iliac veins . the ureters were left intact in all but 1 patient who required a bench operation . of the 4 patients who had a unilateral procedure 3 are cured and 1 is improved with a normal blood pressure on a small dose of antihypertensive medication . the 3 patients with bilateral autotransplants are cured . these results , with normalization of the blood pressure in 86 % of the patients and improvement in blood pressure in 14 % with a patency rate of 87 % , are similar to other reported reconstructive modalities in children . 
a giant renal artery aneurysm diagnosed post partum . we report a case of a 5.8 cm . right renal artery aneurysm diagnosed intact 8 weeks post partum . rupture of a renal arterial aneurysm during pregnancy is a rare but well described catastrophic event . there are no previous reports of an intact renal artery aneurysm diagnosed either ante partum or post partum . to our knowledge , this also represents the largest reported renal artery aneurysm . the aneurysm was repaired successfully with kidney salvage and closure of the fistulous connection to the renal vein . 
doppler color-flow images from a stenosed arterial model : interpretation of flow patterns . the capability of the recently introduced doppler color-flow mapping devices to accurately detect flow patterns in the region of an arterial stenosis was evaluated by use of an in vitro flow model . pulsatile flow simulating that in a low-resistance vessel was induced through a straight acrylic tube , which alternatively contained axisymmetric stenoses of 0 % , 20 % , 40 % , 60 % , and 80 % diameter reduction . doppler color-flow mapper images were taken in realtime along the tube midplane from 0 to 8 diameters downstream of each stenosis . comparison of the doppler color-flow mapping results with similarly recorded flow visualization ( hydrogen bubble ) images showed a close correspondence of key features of the flow , including detection of a high-velocity , centerline jet and near-wall separated flow zones . distinctive flow patterns exist with each stenotic case , and these should be of considerable value in diagnosing clinical disease conditions . 
everted cervical vein for carotid patch angioplasty . because of the theoretic benefits of autologous vein we undertook an investigation to evaluate cervical veins ( facial , external jugular ) as patch material after carotid endarterectomy . a device that stimulated both circumferential fixation by sutures and radial tension exerted on in vivo patches was constructed to measure burst strength of tissue . mean bursting pressure for groin saphenous vein ( n = 10 ) was 94.5 + / - 15.1 pounds per square inch ( psi ) , 75.5 + / - 8.9 psi for ankle saphenous vein ( n = 10 ) , 83.3 + / - 14.5 psi for everted ( double layer ) cervical vein ( n = 5 ) and 10 + / - 3.3 psi for single layer cervical vein ( n = 5 ) . no significant differences between saphenous vein at any level and everted ( double layer ) cervical vein , but all were significantly different from single layer cervical vein ( p less than 0.05 ) . from june 1987 through november 1989 , 19 patients underwent 21 carotid endarterectomies complemented with adjunctive everted cervical vein patch angioplasty . indications for surgery were asymptomatic stenosis ( 53 % ) , transient ischemic attack ( 29 % ) , and cerebrovascular accident with recovery ( 18 % ) . all patients were studied after surgery with duplex scanning . asymptomatic recurrent stenosis was observed in one patient . transient hypoglossal nerve dysfunction occurred in one other patient . one postoperative death occurred as a result of massive aspiration . these results indicate that everted cervical vein is comparable to the saphenous vein in resistance to bursting and can yield similar results as patch material after carotid endarterectomy . accordingly , saphenous vein can be spared and lower extremity incisions avoided . 
inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm masquerading as occlusion of the inferior vena cava . inflammatory aneurysms are an uncommon disorder that represent between 5 % and 10 % of abdominal aortic aneurysms . their presentation is often variable and may include pain and obstruction of adjacent anatomic structures . this report describes a 68-year-old man who sought treatment after insidious onset of progressive bilateral lower extremity edema over a 6-month period . noninvasive studies were suggestive of bilateral iliac vein occlusion , and a venogram showed a nearly obstructed vena cava from external compression . a ct scan showed a thick-walled infrarenal abdominal aneurysm . at exploration an inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm was found . because of the presence of dense inflammatory changes surrounding the aneurysm and extending into the pelvis , the surgical procedure of choice was an aortobifemoral bypass graft done with dacron . the aneurysmal wall was debrided from the vena cava . his postoperative course was uneventful , his edema resolved , and follow-up noninvasive studies were normal . postoperative venography showed resolution of the extrinsic compression of the vena cava . 
free protein s deficiency in a family with venous thrombosis . inherited deficiencies of protein s , an inhibitor of the coagulation system , are now recognized as occurring at least twice as frequently as antithrombin iii deficiency in patients with venous thrombosis . protein s is present in plasma in a complexed form , which is inactive , and in a free or functional form . free protein s combines with activated protein c to inhibit factors v and viii . this report describes the evaluation of a family with recurrent deep venous thrombosis and superficial thrombophlebitis . levels of antithrombin iii and protein c as well as plasminogen were normal . the levels of total protein s , which includes the value for the free and complexed forms of protein s , were also normal . however , the free protein s levels were greatly reduced in all symptomatic members who were studied . this report illustrates the importance of obtaining measurement of free protein s levels in patients who are suspected of having inherited venous thrombotic disorders . 
indications for distal arterial reconstruction in the presence of palpable pedal pulses . eight patients with severe pedal ischemia in the presence of palpable foot pulses are described . all had atherosclerosis , and seven patients also had diabetes . there were two anatomic patterns of disease , including supramalleolar obstruction with reconstitution of pulsatile flow in three patients and segmental occlusion of the pedal vessels in five . all patients underwent arterial reconstructive surgery . patency was sustained in six patients , with limb salvage in five and below-knee amputation in one patient for persistent necrosis and infection of an open amputation . of the two eventual bypass failures , a transmetatarsal amputation continued to heal in one patient , and the other required amputation below the knee . palpable pedal pulses and satisfactory ankle/brachial indexes did not rule out the presence of surgically correctable distal arterial occlusive disease . therefore arteriography is indicated in any patient with persistent forefoot ischemia that fails to respond to conservative measures . the safety and patency of the distal reconstructive procedures performed in this series suggest that salvage of weight-bearing tissue and rapid healing , as well as limb salvage , are legitimate indications for revascularization . 
femur fracture with limb shortening causing occlusion of a polytetrafluoroethylene femoral popliteal graft . traumatic occlusion of lower extremity polytetrafluoroethylene arterial grafts is exceedingly rare . we report a patient who suffered a supracondylar femur fracture resulting in shortening of her right lower extremity with kinking and thrombosis of her above-knee polytetrafluoroethylene arterial graft . this is the first report in the english language of prosthetic graft occlusion as a result of traumatic limb shortening . the graft thrombus was successfully lysed by use of intraarterial urokinase , and the kink was repaired by graft resection and reanastomosis . the mechanism of injury and treatment are discussed . 
intraabdominal hemorrhage as a result of segmental mediolytic arteritis of an omental artery : case report . this article describes the fifth reported case of segmental mediolytic arteritis and the second in a survivor . the patient had intraabdominal bleeding as a result of a ruptured omental artery . the pathologic and arteriographic findings are described . the pathology is characterized by segmental disruption of the medial smooth muscle cells and the initiation of mediolysis . mediolysis is associated with marked segmental thinning of the vessel wall , often with only the adventitia intact . fibrin is deposited at the adventitial and medial surfaces , and hemorrhage into the media may occur . as in this reported case , lysis of the adventitia leads to sudden , often catastrophic intraabdominal hemorrhage . little associated adventitial inflammation occurred . segmental mediolytic arteritis seems to involve the intra-abdominal muscular arteries in elderly patients with nonspecific abdominal symptoms . an angiogram showed patchy areas of narrowing involving ileal , gastroduodenal , and renal arteries that correlated with the pathologic findings observed in the excised omental arteries . 
intraoperative peripheral nd : yag laser-assisted thermal balloon angioplasty : short-term and intermediate-term follow-up . laser-assisted thermal balloon angioplasty was performed in 48 arteries ( iliac , superficial femoral , and popliteal ) . indications for surgery were limb salvage ( 25 % ) , rest pain ( 38 % ) , and claudication ( 38 % ) . patients were categorized into three groups : lesions less than 5 cm , greater than 5 to 10 cm , or greater than 10 cm in length . demographic characteristics , risk factors , and outcome measures were compared by use of fisher 's exact test and student 's t test . the time for vascular patency failure was compared by use of a standard kaplan-meier survival analysis for the three groups . initial failure to recanalize was noted in 14 % in lesions less than 5 cm , 40 % in lesions greater than 5 to 10 cm , and 73 % in lesions greater than 10 cm . the overall success rate was 38 % , with a mean follow up of 1 year . the less than 5 cm lesion group had a significantly higher rate of overall success ( 59 % , p = 0.005 ) than the other two groups combined . the greater than 10 cm lesion group did significantly worse ( 9 % ) than the other two groups combined ( p = 0.028 ) . patients in the less than 5 cm group had significantly longer patency than the other two groups ( p less than 0.01 ) . iliac lesions had a higher overall success rate ( 73 % ) than superficial femoral and popliteal artery lesions ( 35 % ) ( p = 0.038 ) . in conclusion , the widespread application of laser-assisted thermal balloon angioplasty can not be justified without further long-term clinical and laboratory investigation . conversely , the potential of this technique should not be dismissed out of hand . proper patient selection , length and nature of the lesion to be treated , and the appropriate forms , doses , and method of delivery of laser energy , remain to be defined . 
disseminated histoplasmosis with embolic endovascular complications : a case report . a 57-year-old man had subacute embolic ischemia of his right foot and subsequent acute embolic ischemia of his left foot after angiography . thrombus removed at the time of the left femoral thromboembolectomy grew histoplasma capsulatum confirming the diagnosis of disseminated histoplasmosis . surgical revascularization of the right leg and parenteral amphotericin b was followed by chronic ketoconazole therapy for 16 months . the patient has remained asymptomatic at 30 months after operation . effective treatment of endovascular infection with ischemic complications of histoplasmosis requires surgical revascularization and intensive chemotherapeutic intervention . histoplasmosis is a ubiquitous infection in endemic areas that often has an asymptomatic subclinical course . involvement of the cardiovascular system is rarely reported . previous case reports have described infected cardiac valves and aortic aneurysms . this report describes the uncommon presentation of disseminated histoplasma capsulatum infection as a peripheral embolic event and the successful management with revascularization combined with systemic amphotericin b followed by ketoconazole therapy . 
indirect revascularization of the lower extremity by means of microvascular free-muscle flap -- a preliminary report . we describe the treatment of a patient with end-stage peripheral vascular disease and ischemic ulceration of the lower extremity in whom an obliteration of the distal arterial bed precluded conventional arterial reconstruction . a nonhealing dorsal foot ulcer was debrided , and soft tissue reconstruction was accomplished by the free microsurgical transfer of a muscle flap to the distal lower extremity . arterial inflow to this free flap was provided by a contralateral reversed saphenous vein graft from the proximal arterial tree of the leg . this procedure resulted in a healed wound , stable coverage , and limb salvage . the patient also noted complete relief of rest pain and improvement in his claudication symptoms . a follow-up arteriogram was done 2 months after surgery . contrast injection directly into the artery of this flap showed new blood vessel growth from the muscle flap into the foot with anastomoses of these " new vessels " to the patient 's native circulation . this experience suggests that limb salvage may be possible by the free microvascular transplantation of a muscle flap onto the limb in selected patients whose limbs are deemed " nonreconstructible . " . 
unusual aspects of aortovenous fistulas associated with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms . three unusual cases of an abdominal aortic aneurysm spontaneously rupturing into the retroperitoneum and an adherent posterior vein are reported . no patient demonstrated signs or symptoms of an aortovenous fistula before surgery . emergent surgery prevented extensive preoperative diagnostic testing . the three abdominal aortic aneurysms were very large and averaged 13 cm in diameter . one fistula involved an inflammatory aneurysm , which is the fifth such case reported . the aortic fistulas were to the inferior vena cava ( 158 other cases reported in the english-language literature ) , a left renal vein ( 16 other cases reported ) , and an iliac vein ( 7 other cases reported ) . routine use of the cell-saver , oversewing of the fistula from within the aneurysm , and a heightened awareness that this unusual complication is more common in the presence of a very large , ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm should improve survival . 
popliteal artery occlusion caused by cystic adventitial disease : successful treatment by urokinase followed by nonresectional cystotomy . preoperative diagnosis of an occluded popliteal artery caused by cystic adventitial disease allowed use of urokinase to successfully dissolve secondary thrombosis . subsequent non-resectional adventitial cystotomy and evacuation of cyst contents allowed lasting restoration of a patent arterial lumen and return of normal distal pulses . this nongrafting technique may serve as a model for future patients with occluded arteries caused by this condition . 
deep vein obstruction and leg swelling caused by femoral ganglion . we present a case of a rare ganglion cyst originating from the hip joint and compressing the common femoral vein producing signs and symptoms that mimicked a deep vein thrombosis . excision of the mass promptly restored normal venous return . this condition has not been previously reported in the english-language medical literature . 
the diagnosis and management of aortic dissection . aortic dissection is a severe disease . most untreated patients with types i and ii ( proximal ) dissection and over half of those with type iii ( distal ) dissection die within 1 year . most of the deaths occur within 2 weeks and are caused by rupture , aortic insufficiency , and branch vessel obstruction . aortic dissection is suspected in patients with anterior chest and back pain that progresses downward . diagnosis is confirmed by computed tomography , aortography , or echocardiography . appropriate medical treatment and corrective surgery , including total aortic replacement , performed in the acute and chronic stages , are now successful in over 90 % of the cases ; long-term results of treatment are steadily improving and are expected to exceed 50 % at 10 years . the keys to a successful outcome are being aware of the symptoms of dissection , early diagnosis , and prompt application of appropriate treatment ; diligent follow-up includes controlling blood pressure , decreasing the velocity of left ventricular contraction , monitoring the size of the residual aorta , and taking appropriate action if redissection , aneurysmal formation , or rupture occurs . 
adult open heart surgery in new york state . an analysis of risk factors and hospital mortality rates this study analyzes data from new york state 's new cardiac surgery reporting system , which contains information about cardiac preoperative risk factors , postoperative complications , and hospital discharge . the purposes of the study were to determine the set of significant clinical risk factors and to identify cardiac surgical centers most likely to have serious quality-of-care problems . significant risk factors for in-hospital death were age , gender , ejection fraction , previous myocardial infarction , number of open heart operations in previous admissions , diabetes requiring medication , dialysis dependence , disasters ( acute structural defect , renal failure , cardiogenic shock , gunshot ) , unstable angina , intractable congestive heart failure , left main trunk narrowed more than 90 % , and type of operation performed . four of the 28 hospitals had significantly higher mortality rates than expected , given the risk factors of their patients . subsequent site visits and medical record reviews confirmed that these facilities had high percentages of quality-of-care problems among cases resulting in mortality . 
glomerular hyperfiltration indicates early target organ damage in essential hypertension in 111 patients with essential hypertension ( world health organization stage i or ii ) , we examined the relationship between renal hemodynamics and left ventricular hypertrophy . left ventricular structure was determined by two-dimensional guided m-mode echocardiography , renal blood flow by iodine i 131 aminohippuric acid clearance , and glomerular filtration rate by creatinine clearance . the glomerular filtration rate correlated with left ventricular mass ( r = .52 ) and left ventricular cross-sectional area ( r = .21 ) . conversely , at a similar age , body mass index , body surface area , and arterial pressure , hypertensive patients with left ventricular hypertrophy disclosed a higher glomerular filtration rate and filtration fraction than those without left ventricular hypertrophy , whereas renal blood flow and renal vascular resistance measurements were not significantly different . thus , at similar levels of arterial pressure and renal blood flow , glomerular hyperfiltration was linked to early cardiac structural changes in essential hypertension . we conclude that , in a hypertensive patient with normal renal function , a high glomerular filtration rate may be an indicator for early target organ damage in essential hypertension . 
practicalities of lipids : icu patient , autoimmune disease , and vascular disease . although the use of lipids should be individualized , certain generalizations are appropriate . 1 . lipid infusion should be limited in the fulminately septic patient to 10 % of total calories in an effort to reduce immunosuppression . 2 . the stressed , nonseptic patient with difficulties in ventilator weaning or tpn-induced hepatic dysfunction may reap benefit from a reduction in dextrose calories and the provision of daily lipids . 3 . patients with severe autoimmune disease have had mild amelioration of symptoms with pufa supplementation . the relative benefits of omega-6 vs omega-3 continue to be examined . 4 . dietary immunomodulation in transplant and burns remains an area of active investigation . 5 . patients with fat-free tpn show transient declines in serum lipids . the development of a " fat-solubilizer " remains in the experimental realm . 6 . the provision of fish oil , high in w-3 epa , has shown promise in atherosclerosis and immunomodulation . the changes in the relative amounts of each prostaglandin class depend on precursor prevalence . 
nephron function in the early phase of ischemic renal failure . significance of erythrocyte trapping . trapping of red blood cells ( rbcs ) in renal medulla vasculature in postischemic acute renal failure ( arf ) was found to depend upon the length of the ischemic period . thus trapping occurred after 45 minutes but not 25 minutes of ischemia . by prior hemodilution to a hematocrit ( hct ) of 30 % , rbc trapping after 45 minutes of ischemia could be completely prevented . likewise hemo-concentration ( hct = 60 % ) before 25 minutes of ischemia resulted in extensive rbc trapping . by increasing or decreasing the hct , the contribution of rbc trapping to the functional defects and decrease in renal blood flow that follows minor ( 25 min ) and more substantial ( 45 min ) ischemia was investigated . renal blood flow ( rbf ) was measured by microspheres , and vascular and tubular pressure by the micropuncture technique . glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) was estimated from inulin clearance , and tubular function from urine osmolality and sodium and potassium excretion . it was found that postischemic rbf was not correlated to rbc trapping but depended on the length of ischemia . after both 25 and 45 minutes of ischemia tubular obstructions occurred in the proximal tubules and/or loops of henle , causing an increase in proximal tubular pressure . these obstructions were dependent on the length of ischemia but not on rbc trapping . after hemoconcentration and 25 minutes of ischemia there was an increment in distal tubular pressure , indicating that abundant rbc trapping may contribute to an increase in tubular pressure by compression of medullary tubules and thereby reduce gfr . when the damage was more severe other factors came into play and the contribution of rbc trapping to the decrease in gfr was minimal . 
role of enhanced glomerular synthesis of thromboxane a2 in progressive kidney disease . normotensive rats of the milan strain ( mns ) spontaneously develop focal glomerulosclerosis . in order to explore the contribution of glomerular thromboxane ( tx ) a2 synthesis to the development of the disease , we have characterized the time course of renal functional and biochemical changes , and their modification by long-term treatment with a tx-synthase inhibitor . oral administration ( 150 mg.kg-1 from 1 to 14 months of age ) of fce 22178 suppressed enhanced glomerular txb2 production at all experimental times ( mean inhibition 80 % ) and proteinuria ( varying between 27.1 and 73.0 % ) while preserving renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate . these effects of tx-synthase inhibition were seen in the absence of any statistically significant changes in systemic blood pressure . moreover , fce 22178 had no antihypertensive effects in hypertensive rats of the milan strain ( mhs ) nor in spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shr ) . treatment also prevented the age-related hypoalbuminemia and hyperlipidemia observed in control mns and significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) reduced glomerular histologic damage , as demonstrated by light microscopy studies and measurement of sclerotic area . we conclude that : 1 ) mns rats provide an animal model of long-lasting proteinuria characterized by an age-related increase in glomerular txb2 production paralleled by progressive loss of renal structural integrity and function and by a secondary dyslipidemia ; 2 ) pharmacological inhibition of glomerular tx-synthase attenuates the structural as well as the functional expression of kidney disease , without a primary effect on systemic blood pressure . these data are suggestive of an important modulating role of txa2 in the progression of mns renal disease . 
mild ischemia predisposes the s3 segment to gentamicin toxicity . the purpose of these studies was to determine if a functionally insignificant ischemic insult , occurring prior to gentamicin administration , enhanced gentamicin nephrotoxicity . bilateral renal pedicle clamp studies demonstrated that 15 minutes of ischemia did not increase the plasma creatinine yet markedly enhanced gentamicin nephrotoxicity . further studies , in uninephrectomized rats , demonstrated that following fifteen minutes of renal ischemia and four hours of reperfusion inulin clearance , fena + and cellular morphology were normal . this model , therefore , was used in all subsequent studies . while the plasma creatinine concentrations were normal 24 hours following 15 minutes of ischemia and only slightly increased following gentamicin administration ( 100 mg/kg , i.p. ) gentamicin administered four hours following 15 minutes of renal ischemia resulted in significantly increased 24-hour plasma creatinine values . light microscopic quantitation of tissue injury , performed 24 hours following experimental manipulation , was notable for s3 segment damage in the ischemia plus gentamicin group . this was not observed in either the ischemia group or the sham operated gentamicin group . cortical gentamicin levels were elevated in the ischemia plus gentamicin group , despite similar plasma gentamicin half-lives . however , the elevation in cortical gentamicin levels was dissociated from the enhanced nephrotoxicity seen following mild ischemic injury . taken together these data indicate that mild renal ischemia , occurring prior to gentamicin administration , greatly enhanced gentamicin nephrotoxicity with the greatest damage occurring to s3 cells . 
options for surgical repair in hearts with univentricular atrioventricular connection and subaortic stenosis . thirteen patients have undergone surgical treatment because of subaortic obstruction in hearts with a univentricular atrioventricular connection . nine patients underwent surgical enlargement of the ventricular septal defect and four patients had construction of an aortopulmonary anastomosis and closure of the pulmonary trunk ( the damus-kaye-stansel procedure ) . two patients undergoing enlargement of the septal defect and two having the damus-kaye-stansel procedure also had a modified fontan procedure . one patient had complete atrioventricular dissociation after direct enlargement of the ventricular septal defect , which necessitated insertion of an epicardial pacemaker . one patient died within 30 days of the operation after enlargement of the defect and two patients after the damus-kaye-stansel procedure . there was one late death , occurring in a patient who underwent enlargement of the ventricular septal defect . ten patients have subsequently undergone conventional cardiac catheterization and angiography or transcutaneous doppler flow studies to assess the relief of the subaortic obstruction . the result has been satisfactory in all . because of this experience , we now recommend direct surgical enlargement of the restrictive ventricular septal defect for direct relief of subaortic stenosis occurring with a univentricular atrioventricular connection to a dominant left ventricle , inasmuch as it appears to be hemodynamically effective with a low operative mortality and morbidity . the damus-kaye-stansel procedure can also have a role in relieving subaortic stenosis when the atria are connected to a dominant right ventricle . 
repair of transposition of the great arteries with intact ventricular septum and left ventricular outflow tract obstruction . repair of transposition of the great arteries in patients with intact ventricular septum and fixed left ventricular outflow tract obstruction has been restricted to atrial baffle procedures , with or without attempts to relieve or bypass the left ventricular outflow obstruction . however , the suboptimal results of these procedures , coupled with excellent functional results with the arterial switch operation in patients without obstruction , has made anatomic correction the goal in repairing these anomalies . we report a technique for the anatomic correction of transposition of the great arteries , intact ventricular septum , and fixed left ventricular outflow tract obstruction . its consideration in these difficult cases is advocated . 
the effects of dopamine on myocardial functional recovery after reversible ischemic injury . dopamine frequently is used to improve cardiac performance after acute myocardial ischemia . inotropic agents , however , increase myocardial oxygen demand and could potentially delay recovery from ischemic injury . to evaluate this problem , we studied eight chronically instrumented dogs in the conscious state and performed two 15-minute coronary occlusions 48 hours apart . after one of the occlusions , either dopamine ( 15 micrograms/kg/min ) or saline placebo was administered intravenously from 1.0 to 1.5 hours of reperfusion . the alternative infusion was given during the second study . preload recruitable work area , the area beneath the stroke work versus end-diastolic length relationship , was used to assess intrinsic myocardial performance . ischemia decreased preload recruitable work area to 13 % of control after both occlusions . after reperfusion , a 30-minute dopamine infusion acutely increased myocardial function nearly threefold as compared with placebo . myocardial performance after dopamine administration , however , was significantly depressed compared with placebo throughout the remaining 24 hours of reperfusion ( p less than 0.01 ) . these data indicate that dopamine may impair functional recovery after ischemic myocardial injury and suggest that inotropic interventions should be used in this setting only when absolutely indicated . 
studies of controlled reperfusion after ischemia . xviii . reperfusion conditions : attenuation of the regional ischemic effect by temporary total vented bypass before controlled reperfusion . this study tests the hypothesis that total vented bypass can attenuate the regional ischemic effect during a defined time interval before controlled blood cardioplegic reperfusion . thirty-three dogs underwent 2 or 4 hours of occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery and then received a regional blood cardioplegic reperfusate on total vented bypass . cardiopulmonary bypass and reperfusion were started after 2 hours of ischemia in eight dogs , and after 4 hours of ischemia in 25 others . among the 25 dogs , seven had total vented bypass started after the first 2 hours of the 4 hours of regional ischemia . segmental shortening ( ultrasonic crystals ) , tissue water content ( wet/dry weight ) , and histochemical damage ( triphenyltetrazolium chloride stain ) were assessed 2 hours after reperfusion . dogs reperfused after 2 hours of ischemia recovered 73 % + / - 8 % of control systolic shortening and sustained only 11 % triphenyltetrazolium chloride nonstaining . dogs undergoing 4 hours of regional ischemia , but with total vented bypass 2 hours before reperfusion had improved recovery of systolic shortening ( 49 % versus 31 % , p less than 0.05 ) , limited epicardial edema ( 79.6 % versus 81.1 % water content , p less than 0.05 ) , and reduced histochemical damage ( 24 % versus 39 % triphenyltetrazolium chloride nonstaining , p less than 0.05 ) . these findings imply that institution of total vented bypass during ischemia attenuates the infarct process , increases regional recovery of contractility , limits edema and restricts histochemical damage , and may be a useful adjunct to myocardial salvage when controlled reperfusion can be provided . 
simulated left ventricular aneurysm and aneurysm repair in swine . patch reconstruction of left ventricular aneurysm may be superior to linear closure , but this hypothesis has not been tested experimentally . accordingly , six anesthetized domestic pigs were instrumented to measure regional left ventricular wall thickening , stroke volume , systolic left ventricular pressure , and myocardial oxygen consumption . with total bypass and cardioplegia , a 6 by 8 cm dacron patch was inserted into the anteroapical left ventricle . simulations were as follows : left ventricular aneurysm , patch open ; patch reconstruction , 50 % patch plication ; standard repair , ventriculotomy edges approximated . global function , from stroke work ( stroke volume x integral of left ventricular pressure ) - left ventricular end-diastolic pressure curves , was depressed in all three simulations compared with control . a tendency for stroke work to be greater for standard repair than for left ventricular aneurysm and patch reconstruction at higher preloads was not statistically significant . mechanical efficiency , from stroke work/myocardial oxygen consumption ( joules per milliliter oxygen per beat ) , was 2.43 + / - 0.52 ( mean + / - standard error of the mean ) ( control ) , 2.22 + / - 0.94 ( standard repair ) , 1.27 + / - 0.39 ( patch reconstruction ) , and 1.09 + / - 0.37 ( left ventricular aneurysm ) ( no significant differences ) . regional work was calculated as regional left ventricular wall thickening x integral of left ventricular pressure . the slope of the regional work-end-diastolic wall thickness relation decreased in the posterior wall 14.0 + / - 2.9 ( control ) versus 8.4 + / - 2.0 ( left ventricular aneurysm ) , 6.9 + / - 1.4 ( patch reconstruction ) , and 7.4 + / - 1.4 ( standard repair ) ( p less than 0.05 ) . in the anterior wall , contractility did not change significantly ( 7.4 + / - 1.2 , control ; 7.8 + / - 2.7 , left ventricular aneurysm ; 5.0 + / - 0.4 , patch reconstruction ; and 5.3 + / - 0.4 , standard repair ) . decreased end-diastolic wall thinning anteriorly suggested tethering . these results in the normal left ventricle suggest that patch ventriculoplasty is of no greater benefit than linear repair . either repair may impede function of adjacent myocardium through restriction of regional diastolic lengthening . 
intraoperative transesophageal color-coded doppler echocardiography for evaluation of residual regurgitation after mitral valve repair . because mitral valve competence after mitral valve reconstruction is awkward to assess during this procedure , we evaluated in this respect transesophageal color-coded doppler echocardiography in 23 patients undergoing mitral valve reconstruction for severe mitral regurgitation . transesophageal echocardiographic examinations were performed after induction of anesthesia but before sternotomy ( baseline ) , after mitral valve repair before decannulation , and at sternal closure , all at similar mean aortic pressure and echocardiographic instrument settings . the degree of mitral regurgitation by transesophageal color doppler flow mapping was visually quantified on a 5-point scale ( 0 to 4 ) , pending the left atrial extent of the regurgitant jet . this was compared with the degree of mitral regurgitation by left ventricular cineangiography performed within several weeks after operation and also visually quantified on a 5-point scale ( 0 to 4 ) , with use of the right anterior oblique projection . there was good correlation between the two methods ( r = 0.83 ; p less than 0.001 ) . we conclude that residual mitral regurgitation , as assessed by transesophageal color flow mapping in the operating room , highly correlates with the ultimate mitral regurgitation by cineangiography . therefore transesophageal echocardiography can be helpful for evaluation of mitral valve competence during mitral valve reconstruction , and hence , in case of repair failure , allow valve replacement in the same surgical session , thus avoiding reoperation . 
aortic replacement with composite grafts created with a sutureless intraluminal ringed prosthesis . from 1980 to 1988 , 30 patients from a total population of 123 recipients of sutureless grafts ( 24 % ) have required aortic reconstruction with a composite ringed graft . replacement of the ascending aorta was required in 12 patients , of the aortic arch in six patients , of the descending aorta in two patients , of the thoracoabdominal aorta in two patients , and of the abdominal aorta in eight patients . eight patients ( 27 % ) needed an emergency operation at the time of admission . no patients had permanent neurologic or renal deficits . there was no evidence of pseudoaneurysm formation , graft erosion , graft migration , or aortic bleeding in the postoperative period . two operative deaths ( 7 % ) occurred , both in patients undergoing arch reconstruction . composite grafts can be created that vary in length and shape , incorporate different graft materials , and accommodate the aorta and its branches . the ability to modify the sutureless prosthesis to suit the disease encountered at operation allows the quickest repair with the least chance of anastomotic complication . 
coagulation factor abnormalities as possible thrombotic risk factors after fontan operations . severe thromboembolism occurred in 3 of 37 patients who had undergone fontan-type operations for correction of congenital heart defects several months to years after the operation . the patients were screened for coagulation factor abnormalities to find out whether known prothrombotic risk factors could explain the high frequency of thromboembolism . 63 abnormalities were found in 24 of the 37 patients . the commonest and most pronounced abnormality was deficiency of protein c , a known risk factor . concentrations of antithrombin iii and factors ii and x were significantly lower in protein-c-deficient patients than in those with normal protein c concentrations . these findings suggest that the high thrombotic risk in these patients is caused or at least associated with an imbalance between procoagulant and anticoagulant factors . 
angioedema from angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors : a cause of upper airway obstruction . angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitors have several side effects of concern to the otolaryngologist . angioedema is a rare , but potentially lethal adverse effect when associated with upper airway obstruction . four cases of ace-inhibitor-induced angioedema , three with significant upper airway obstruction , are reported . angioedema secondary to ace inhibition appears to be mechanism based . the probable link is the potentiation of bradykinin , which results in vasodilation , increased vascular permeability , and angioedema . since angioedema can progress to upper airway obstruction , otolaryngologists must be aware of this association . the differential diagnosis and treatment of this adverse effect is discussed , as well as a review of ace inhibitors and other causes of angioedema . 
the health belief model : predicting compliance and dropout in cardiac rehabilitation . we investigated the health belief model and the health locus of control constructs as predictors of group membership ( compliers or dropouts ) with cardiac rehabilitation and whether they added predictive utility to routinely assessed patient demographics and health behaviors . questionnaires were completed on entry into the study by 120 patients with coronary artery disease , and by the end of the 6 month program there were 58 compliers and 62 dropouts . discriminant function analyses were carried out to determine prediction of group membership . the health belief model predicted group membership 64.6 % of the time , explaining 5.2 % of the variance . demographics , health behaviors , and health belief model factors accounted for 21.1 % of the variance between compliers and total dropouts with group membership correctly predicted 74.4 % of the time ; avoidable and unavoidable dropout was correctly predicted 84.2 % of the time with 56.9 % of the variance explained . health locus of control did not distinguish between compliers and dropouts . the addition of the health belief model provided additional information about compliance with cardiac rehabilitation beyond that explained by demographic and health behavior variables alone , particularly when predicting avoidable/unavoidable dropout . 
the effect of low-dose warfarin on the risk of stroke in patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation . the boston area anticoagulation trial for atrial fibrillation investigators background . nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation increases the risk of stroke , presumably from atrial thromboemboli . there is uncertainty about the efficacy and risks of long-term warfarin therapy to prevent stroke . methods . we conducted an unblinded , randomized , controlled trial of long-term , low-dose warfarin therapy ( target prothrombin-time ratio , 1.2 to 1.5 ) in patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation . the control group was not given warfarin but could choose to take aspirin . results . a total of 420 patients entered the trial ( 212 in the warfarin group and 208 in the control group ) and were followed for an average of 2.2 years . prothrombin times in the warfarin group were in the target range 83 percent of the time . only 10 percent of the patients assigned to receive warfarin discontinued the drug permanently . there were 2 strokes in the warfarin group ( incidence , 0.41 percent per year ) as compared with 13 strokes in the control group ( incidence , 2.98 percent per year ) , for a reduction of 86 percent in the risk of stroke ( warfarin : control incidence ratio = 0.14 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 0.04 to 0.49 ; p = 0.0022 ) . there were 37 deaths altogether . the death rate was markedly lower in the warfarin group than in the control group : 2.25 percent as compared with 5.97 percent per year , for an incidence ratio of 0.38 ( 95 percent confidence interval , 0.17 to 0.82 ; p = 0.005 ) . there was one fatal hemorrhage in each group . the frequency of bleeding events that led to hospitalization or transfusion was essentially the same in both groups . the warfarin group had a higher rate of minor hemorrhage than the control group ( 38 vs. 21 patients ) . conclusions . long-term low-dose warfarin therapy is highly effective in preventing stroke in patients with non-rheumatic atrial fibrillation , and can be quite safe with careful monitoring . 
deficiencies of coagulation-inhibiting and fibrinolytic proteins in outpatients with deep-vein thrombosis background . isolated deficiencies of antithrombin iii , protein c , protein s , and plasminogen have been implicated as a cause of deep-vein thrombosis . it is assumed that patients with recurrent , familial , or juvenile thrombosis are very likely to have such a deficiency . methods . we studied the prevalence of isolated deficiencies of these proteins in 277 consecutive outpatients with venographically proved acute deep-vein thrombosis , as compared with 138 age-matched and sex-matched controls without deep-vein thrombosis , and calculated the positive predictive value of a history of recurrent , familial , or juvenile venous thromboembolism for the presence of such a deficiency . results . the overall prevalence of deficiencies of any of these proteins in the patients with venous thrombosis was 8.3 percent ( 23 of 277 patients ) ( 95 percent confidence interval , 5.4 to 12.4 ) , as compared with 2.2 percent in the controls ( 3 of 138 subjects ) ( 95 percent confidence interval , 0.5 to 6.1 ; p less than 0.05 for the comparison between groups ) . the positive predictive values for the presence of an isolated protein deficiency in patients with recurrent , familial , or juvenile deep-vein thrombosis , defined as the proportion of patients with the clinical finding who had a deficiency of one or more of the proteins , were 9 , 16 , and 12 percent , respectively . conclusions . the cause of acute venous thrombosis in most outpatients ( 91.7 percent ) can not be explained by abnormalities of coagulation-inhibiting and fibrinolytic proteins . the information obtained from the medical history concerning recurrent or familial venous thrombosis or the onset of the disease at a young age is not useful for the identification of patients with protein deficiencies . 
the agent of bacillary angiomatosis . an approach to the identification of uncultured pathogens background . bacillary angiomatosis is an infectious disease causing proliferation of small blood vessels in the skin and visceral organs of patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection and other immunocompromised hosts . the agent is often visualized in tissue sections of lesions with warthin-starry staining , but the bacillus has not been successfully cultured or identified . this bacillus may also cause cat scratch disease . methods . in attempting to identify this organism , we used the polymerase chain reaction . we used oligonucleotide primers complementary to the 16s ribosomal rna genes of eubacteria to amplify 16s ribosomal gene fragments directly from tissue samples of bacillary angiomatosis . the dna sequence of these fragments was determined and analyzed for phylogenetic relatedness to other known organisms . normal tissues were studied in parallel . results . tissue from three unrelated patients with bacillary angiomatosis yielded a unique 16s gene sequence . a sequence obtained from a fourth patient with bacillary angiomatosis differed from the sequence found in the other three patients at only 4 of 241 base positions . no related 16s gene fragment was detected in the normal tissues . these 16s sequences associated with bacillary angiomatosis belong to a previously uncharacterized microorganism , most closely related to rochalimaea quintana . conclusions . the cause of bacillary angiomatosis is a previously uncharacterized rickettsia-like organism , closely related to r. quintana . this method for the identification of an uncultured pathogen may be applicable to other infectious diseases of unknown cause . 
clinical and pathological features of bacillary peliosis hepatis in association with human immunodeficiency virus infection background . peliosis hepatis is characterized by cystic , blood-filled spaces in the liver and is seen in patients with chronic infections or advanced cancer and as a consequence of therapy with anabolic steroids . cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis is a bacterial infection that occurs in patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection ; its histologic appearance is that of a pseudoneoplastic vascular proliferation . methods . we studied liver tissue from eight hiv-infected patients with peliosis hepatis , two of whom also had cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis . for comparison we examined tissue from four patients who had peliosis hepatis without hiv infection . tissues were examined histologically on routine sections and with special stains and electron microscopy . results . the histologic features seen in peliosis hepatis associated with hiv infection , but not in the four cases unrelated to hiv infection , were myxoid stroma and clumps of a granular purple material that on warthin-starry staining and electron microscopy proved to be bacilli . the bacilli , which could not be cultured , were morphologically identical to those found in the skin lesions of cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis . the clinical courses of two of the patients with this " bacillary peliosis hepatis " indicate that it responds to antibiotic treatment . conclusions . hiv-associated bacillary peliosis hepatis is an unusual , treatable opportunistic infection , probably caused by the same organism that causes cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis . our failure to find bacilli in non-hiv-associated cases implies that other pathogenetic mechanisms may also be responsible for peliosis hepatis . 
regional myocardial metabolism of high-energy phosphates during isometric exercise in patients with coronary artery disease background . the maintenance of cellular levels of high-energy phosphates is required for myocardial function and preservation . in animals , severe myocardial ischemia is characterized by the rapid loss of phosphocreatine and a decrease in the ratio of phosphocreatine to atp . methods . to determine whether ischemic metabolic changes are detectable in humans , we recorded spatially localized phosphorus-31 nuclear-magnetic-resonance ( 31p nmr ) spectra from the anterior myocardium before , during , and after isometric hand-grip exercise . results . the mean ( + / - sd ) ratio of phosphocreatine to atp in the left ventricular wall when subjects were at rest was 1.72 + / - 0.15 in normal subjects ( n = 11 ) and 1.59 + / - 0.31 in patients with nonischemic heart disease ( n = 9 ) , and the ratio did not change during hand-grip exercise in either group . however , in patients with coronary heart disease and ischemia due to severe stenosis ( greater than or equal to 70 percent ) of the left anterior descending or left main coronary arteries ( n = 16 ) , the ratio decreased from 1.45 + / - 0.31 at rest to 0.91 + / - 0.24 during exercise ( p less than 0.001 ) and recovered to 1.27 + / - 0.38 two minutes after exercise . only three patients with coronary heart disease had clinical symptoms of ischemia during exercise . repeat exercise testing in five patients after revascularization yielded values of 1.60 + / - 0.20 at rest and 1.62 + / - 0.18 during exercise ( p not significant ) , as compared with 1.51 + / - 0.19 at rest and 1.02 + / - 0.26 during exercise before revascularization ( p less than 0.02 ) . conclusions . the decrease in the ratio of phosphocreatine to atp during hand-grip exercise in patients with myocardial ischemia reflects a transient imbalance between oxygen supply and demand in myocardium with compromised blood flow . exercise testing with 31p nmr is a useful method of assessing the effect of ischemia on myocardial metabolism of high-energy phosphates and of monitoring the response to treatment . 
long-term outcome after surgical repair of isolated atrial septal defect . follow-up at 27 to 32 years background . atrial septal defects have been surgically correctable for more than 30 years . the long-term survival rates among patients treated in the early era of cardiac surgery are poorly documented , but such data are of critical importance to the future medical care , employability , and insurability of these patients . methods . to determine the natural history of surgically corrected atrial septal defects , we studied all 123 patients who underwent repair of an isolated defect ( ostium secundum or sinus venosus ) at the mayo clinic between 1956 and 1960 , 27 to 32 years after the procedure . the follow-up status of all patients was determined by written questionnaires and telephone interviews . hospital records and death certificates were obtained if interim hospitalization or death had occurred . results . the overall 30-year actuarial survival rate among survivors of the perioperative period was 74 percent , as compared with 85 percent among controls matched for age and sex . the perioperative mortality was 3.3 percent ( four deaths ) . actuarial 27-year survival rates among patients in the younger two quartiles according to age at operation ( less than or equal to 11 years and 12 to 24 years ) were no different from rates among controls -- 97 percent and 93 percent , respectively . in the two older quartiles ( 25 to 41 years and greater than 41 years ) , 27-year survival rates were significantly less ( p less than 0.001 ) -- 84 percent and 40 percent , respectively -- than in controls ( 91 and 59 percent ) . independent predictors of long-term survival according to multivariate analysis were age at operation ( p less than 0.0001 ) and systolic pressure in the main pulmonary artery before operation ( p less than 0.0027 ) . when repair was performed in older patients , late cardiac failure , stroke , and atrial fibrillation were significantly more frequent . conclusions . among patients with surgically repaired atrial septal defects , those operated on before the age of 25 have an excellent prognosis , but older patients require careful , regular supervision . 
thickness of carotid artery atherosclerotic plaque and ischemic risk . noninvasive duplex scanning of carotid artery atherosclerotic plaque was performed in 286 consecutive patients referred to a cerebrovascular diagnostic laboratory . the presence and thickness of such plaque in the region of the carotid bifurcation were examined for association with the degree of vessel stenosis , age , sex , smoking history , history of prior transient ischemic attack or stroke , and systemic manifestations of atherosclerotic disease . atherosclerotic plaque thickness was positively correlated with degree of vessel stenosis ( p less than 0.0001 ) . both parameters were independent predictors of cerebrovascular events but plaque thickness was a better predictor of prior transient ischemic attacks ( p less than 0.05 ) , and vessel stenosis was a better predictor of prior stroke ( p less than 0.005 ) . patient age ( p less than 0.001 ) and pack-years of cigarette use ( p less than 0.001 ) were independent positive predictors of carotid atherosclerotic plaque thickness . the greatest effect of smoking and atherosclerotic plaque thickness was seen in heavy smokers younger than age 55 . both carotid artery plaque thickness and pack-years of smoking were significant independent predictors of other systemic manifestations of atherosclerotic disease ( p less than 0.05 ) . such noninvasive scanning of carotid artery atherosclerotic plaque demonstrates the significant role of age and smoking in the progression of disease . it also suggests a significant role for carotid atherosclerotic artery plaque in the pathophysiology of cerebrovascular events , especially transient ischemic attacks , even prior to the production of a flow-limiting stenosis . finally , noninvasive screening of carotid artery plaque may provide a useful marker for the patient at risk for systemic atherosclerotic disease and identify the patient for whom maximal atherosclerotic risk factor modification is needed . 
the frequency-dependent behavior of cerebral autoregulation . cerebral autoregulation is a complex physiological process composed of both fast and slow components that may respond differently to different rates and patterns of blood pressure variation . to assess the temporal nature of autoregulation , transcranial doppler velocity recordings of the middle cerebral artery obtained over prolonged periods were compared with blood pressure recordings in 5 patients without cerebral disease and in 13 patients with intracranial pathological changes . correlations between the velocity and pressure wave forms at various frequencies of variation were measured with systems analysis techniques . patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage had high correlations indicating pressure-dependent flow and impaired autoregulation . patients without cerebral disease had significantly lower correlations ( p less than 0.01 ) , indicating intact autoregulation . examples of increasing correlations and correlations at new frequencies emerging as the clinical condition worsened are given . these preliminary examples suggest that the application of systems analysis techniques to velocity and pressure data allow measurement of the temporal nature of cerebral autoregulation . 
acute changes in the dynamics of the cerebrospinal fluid system during experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage . early changes in intracranial pressure ( icp ) , icp volume index , and resistance to absorption of cerebrospinal fluid induced by experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage were studied in cats . after sah , the icp was slightly elevated , and there was a decrease in the buffering capacity of the intracranial space and a sharp rise in outflow resistance . during infusion of blood into the cisterna magna with a constant infusion rate , an extensive increase in icp could be demonstrated in contrast to the infusion of saline , which caused only slight elevation of icp . furthermore , during blood infusion , the icp level did not reach a plateau phase of pressure , as was demonstrated during infusion of saline . it is suggested that the marked increase in icp during blood infusion into the subarachnoid space is caused by intracranial volume loading and the simultaneous increase in cerebrospinal fluid outflow resistance . it is concluded that the reported relationship between increased cerebrospinal fluid outflow resistance and increased icp supports the hypothesis of a strong increase in icp during subarachnoid hemorrhage in human subjects . 
vagal schwannoma associated with syncopal attacks and postural hypotension : a case report . a case of vagal schwannoma in the cerebellomedullary angle is reported . preoperatively , the patient had paroxysmal episodes of postural hypotension with syncope . after total removal of the vagal tumor , her systemic blood pressure returned to normal . 
occult vascular malformations of the optic chiasm : magnetic resonance imaging diagnosis and surgical laser resection . angiographically occult vascular malformations of the optic nerve and chiasm are extremely rare . before the advent of magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) , it was difficult to diagnose these lesions preoperatively . we report mri scan findings of optic chiasm cavernous angiomas in two patients with chiasmal syndrome . mri was useful in localizing the vascular malformation and delineating its characteristics , especially chronic hemorrhage . one patient underwent biopsy of the lesion . the other patient underwent complete microsurgical resection of the malformation with the carbon dioxide laser with preservation of vision . occult vascular malformations of the optic nerve and chiasm may be a more common cause of visual deterioration than previously recognized . the mri scan is the imaging modality of choice for diagnosing and following these lesions . in certain patients , these vascular malformations may be amenable to complete surgical removal with stabilization or improvement of visual function . 
serial ultrasonographic evaluation of neonatal vein of galen malformations to assess the efficacy of interventional neuroradiological procedures . two-dimensional echocardiography complemented with color-flow imaging and pulsed doppler ultrasound was used to evaluate one fetus and five neonates with a vein of galen malformation who had severe high-output congestive heart failure and cranial bruits at birth . intracranial blood flow through the vein of galen malformations , cardiac status , and direction of aortic blood flow were assessed before and after staged interventional neuroradiological treatment with transarterial and transvenous embolization procedures . color-flow imaging in each infant displayed the major vascular anatomy including feeding vessels and the patterns of filling of the vein of galen malformations . pulsed doppler ultrasound performed on the descending aorta above the diaphragm showed the degree of diastolic flow reversal indicative of runoff into the vein of galen malformations . a reduction in blood flow through the vein of galen malformation was seen on color-flow imaging in four patients treated successfully by embolic procedures . the ratio of diastolic retrograde flow velocity in the descending aorta to systolic antegrade velocity decreased from 0.51 + / - 0.15 ( mean + / - standard deviation ) to 0.15 + / - 0.20 ( p less than 0.05 ) . color-flow imaging and pulsed doppler ultrasonography provided anatomical and pathophysiological information regarding cardiac hemodynamics and intracranial blood flow ; with the patient 's clinical status , these methods provided a reliable , noninvasive means to evaluate the effectiveness of therapy and the need for further treatment in neonates with vein of galen malformations . 
infectious intracranial aneurysms : comparison of groups with and without endocarditis . a series of 12 patients with infectious intracranial aneurysms is presented , and a number of unusual features of the disorder are emphasized . a comparison of characteristics of the aneurysms and clinical course is made between patients with and without infective endocarditis . most of the unusual characteristics of infectious aneurysms , including rare locations , causative organisms , and predisposing medical conditions , occurred in the group without endocarditis . the relationship of atypical features of infectious aneurysms to the etiology of aneurysm formation is discussed , and an approach to treatment is presented . 
distribution of angiographic vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage : implications for diagnosis by transcranial doppler ultrasonography . a study was undertaken to determine how frequently angiographic vasospasm occurs outside the normal access range of transcranial doppler ultrasound in patients who have suffered a subarachnoid hemorrhage . vasospasm located in the basal vessels is readily identifiable using transcranial doppler ultrasound whereas spasm affecting the more distal , vertically oriented arteries is outside the standard detection range . it is therefore speculated that the sensitivity of the technique would be adversely affected by a high incidence of distal vasospasm . a total of 136 angiograms performed on 68 patients after a subarachnoid hemorrhage from anterior circulation aneurysms were reviewed to determine the typical distribution of vasospasm . of the 40 cases that showed greater than or equal to 25 % vessel narrowing , 50.0 % had spasm restricted to the basal vessels , 42.5 % had spasm involving both basal and distal segments , and 7.5 % had spasm of the distal segments only . none of the patients with distal vasospasm alone developed delayed ischemic deficits . it is concluded that most patients with anterior circulation aneurysms who develop vasospasm will have involvement of the basal vessels , but a small number of patients may develop vasospasm only in distal vessels . 
hypertension as a risk factor for epilepsy after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and surgery . a prospective , consecutive series of 307 patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage ranging from grades 1 to v according to the classification of hunt and hess on admission were evaluated to determine the incidence of epilepsy 1 to 3 years ( mean , 1.4 years ) after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) and surgery . sixty-three patients had died and one patient was lost to follow-up . twenty-nine patients developed epileptic seizures after the sah and surgery . the mean time from the sah to epileptic seizure varied from 0 days ( day of the sah ) to 2 years ( mean , 6.7 months ) . the seizures were classified as focal in 9 patients ( 31 % ) and as generalized in 20 patients ( 69 % ) . all patients received anticonvulsant medication after more than one seizure . the risk factors for development of posthemorrhagic/postoperative epilepsy were , in order of importance : a history of hypertension ; an infarct on late computed tomographic scan ; and the duration of coma after the ictus . of the 85 patients with histories of hypertension , 17 ( 20.0 % ) developed epilepsy . only 12 ( 5.4 % ) of the 222 nonhypertensive patients developed epileptic seizures . the difference between the groups was significant ( p = 0.0001 ) . computed tomographic scans were undertaken in 237 patients 1 to 3 years ( mean , 1.4 years ) after the sah and surgery . postoperative epilepsy was significantly associated with infarcts visualized on computed tomographic scan ( p = 0.0005 ) . 
pharmacological reversibility of experimental cerebral vasospasm . using a morphometric technique , the pharmacological reversibility of luminal narrowing after experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) was investigated . for vasodilation , a " cocktail " consisting of 10 ( -4 ) m papaverine , 2 x 10 ( -4 ) m sodium nitroprusside , and 10 ( -5 ) m adenosine was administered intra-arterially . forty-two rabbits were divided into six groups : control ( normal animals ) ; control plus cocktail ( normal animals perfused with the cocktail before fixation ) ; sah ( animals sacrificed 48 hours subsequent to intracisternal injection of 1.5 ml/kg of arterial blood ) ; sah plus cocktail ( sah plus perfusion with the cocktail ) ; bacl2 ( animals sacrificed 10 minutes after intracisternal injection of 2 ml of 3 x 10 ( -3 ) m bacl2 ) ; and bacl2 plus cocktail ( bacl2 animals perfused with the cocktail ) . the diameter of the basilar arteries in the control and the control plus cocktail groups was not significantly different . bacl2 reduced the diameter 44 % and sah reduced the diameter 27 % . there were no significant differences between the diameter of the bacl2 plus cocktail group and sah plus cocktail group when compared with the control or the control plus cocktail group . morphological examination by light and transmission electron microscopy showed luminal narrowing and corrugation of the elastic lamina with few degenerative or proliferative changes of the vessel wall in animals with sah . these results suggest that cerebral vasospasm is caused initially by smooth muscle contraction rather than by proliferative vasculopathy and that it is not an irreversible process . 
intradural spinal cord tumor presenting as a subarachnoid hemorrhage : magnetic resonance imaging diagnosis . negative findings on four-vessel angiography after a subarachnoid hemorrhage are seen in 5 to 30 % of patients . a previously silent lesion in the spinal canal may be responsible for the ictus in a small percentage of this group . the etiological factors include tumors and arteriovenous malformations ; however , investigations of such lesions have been limited to patients with signs and symptoms of spinal cord or nerve root pathological processes . this report describes the management of a 56-year-old woman with clinical findings typical of an aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and negative findings on cerebral angiography , in whom magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium enhancement revealed an intradural extramedullary cervical schwannoma . for this reason , cervicothoracic magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium enhancement should be considered as an adjunctive scanning examination in all patients with a subarachnoid hemorrhage and negative findings on angiography . 
cavernous hemangioma of the spinal cord : report of 2 unusual cases . we present 2 cases of spinal cord intramedullary cavernous hemangioma ; 1 patient is the 1st reported case of multiple spinal cord lesions . diagnosis is greatly enhanced by the use of mri . 
whither electronic fetal monitoring ? largely based on promising animal studies , continuous electronic fetal monitoring ( efm ) was introduced into clinical practice in the early 1970s . after almost 20 years of experience , it is now apparent that the anticipated benefits of this technology have not materialized . undesirable side effects of efm include inappropriate operative intervention for some patients and increased liability for physicians and hospitals , resulting in an increase in the costs of obstetric services . after reviewing several research studies , the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists concluded that efm and intermittent auscultation are equivalent methods for intrapartum assessment . we have developed a protocol for the performance of intermittent auscultation , including indicated responses to different levels of bradycardia . this protocol has allowed us to substitute auscultation for efm in a high percentage of patients using existing nursing personnel . laboring patients should , at a minimum , receive information on both intermittent auscultation and efm to enable them to make an informed choice of method for intrapartum fetal assessment . 
vitreous changes and macular edema in central retinal vein occlusion . the condition of the posterior vitreous was determined in 56 eyes with central retinal vein occlusion ( crvo ) . using a life-table analysis , it was studied in 56 eyes . the incidence of posterior vitreous detachment ( pvd ) in the crvo eyes at the first vitreous examination did not differ significantly from that in 64 age-matched control eyes . however , the incidence of pvd in crvo eyes increased from 39.3 % at the first vitreous examination to 58.5 % after 6 months , and to 69.6 % 1 year from the examination . the incidence of pvd in crvo eyes during follow-up was statistically higher than that of the controls ( p = .009 ) . the incidence of pvd after the first vitreous examination was significantly higher in eyes with hemorrhagic retinopathy than in eyes with venous stasis retinopathy ( p = .04 ) . in the 34 eyes with macular edema , the edema lasted significantly longer in those with vitreomacular attachment ( vma ) at the first examination than in those without vma at this time ( p = .02 ) . vma may play an important role in the pathogenesis and chronicity of macular edema in crvo . 
experience with photocoagulation in behcet 's disease . between 1973 and 1987 we examined both eyes of 300 patients with the uveoretinitis-type lesions characteristic of behcet 's disease . of the 556 eyes whose fundus could be examined , 38 eyes ( 6.8 % ) in 33 patients ( 11 % ) had developed retinal capillary nonperfusion , branch retinal vein occlusion , or retinal or disc neovascularization . these eyes were treated by photocoagulation , primarily to forestall vitreous hemorrhage and the development of neovascular glaucoma , as well as to decrease the macular edema resulting from vein occlusion . the treatment , which was well tolerated , was successful in closing retinal capillary nonperfusion areas and eliminating retinal neovascularization . disc neovascularization was resolved completely in some cases , and partially in others . 
acquired retinal arteriovenous communications in occlusive disease of the carotid artery . retinal arteriovenous communications proximal to extensive areas of complete vascular closure developed in three patients with occlusive disease of the carotid arteries . in one case , the authors document the development of the arteriovenous communications through successive enlargement of small retinal vessels after progressive signs of retinal ischemia in the form of narrowed retinal arteries , venous dilation and beading , microaneurysms , retinal dot and blot hemorrhages , cotton-wool spots , and capillary nonperfusion . the development of arteriovenous communications in carotid occlusive disease has not been described previously . 
the prevalence of cardiac valvular pathosis in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus . the purpose of this study was to determine the prevalence of valvular pathosis in a population of patients with sle , to assess the candidacy of such patients for antibiotic prophylaxis before dental treatment . the hospital records of 112 patients with sle were reviewed and screened for endocarditis , heart murmurs , and other valvular pathosis . two of the 112 patients had confirmed cases of bacterial endocarditis . this prevalence is comparable to endocarditis prevalence rates in patients with prosthetic valves and is also three times that in patients with rheumatic heart disease . the high prevalence of endocarditis in this population of patients with sle suggests that according to present perspectives on patient management , patients with sle should be considered for antibiotic prophylaxis before dental therapies associated with formation of a bacteremia . 
nitrendipine-induced gingival hyperplasia . first case report . drug-induced gingival hyperplasia is well documented within the literature . it has been associated with phenytoin , cyclosporine , and calcium channel blocking agents . nitrendipine is an experimental calcium channel blocking agent that also appears to cause the side effect of drug-induced gingival hyperplasia . the clinical and histologic presentation of this side effect and possible biochemical mechanisms of pathogenesis are discussed . 
transbronchial biopsies in children after heart-lung transplantation . sixty transbronchial biopsies have been performed in eight children after heart-lung transplantation . the selection of fiber-optic bronchoscope or a small ( 4 mm ; 30 cm ) rigid bronchoscope was made according to the size of endotracheal tube required at surgery . if the endotracheal tube was size 7.5 or greater , a fiber-optic bronchoscope was used , whereas if the endotracheal tube size was below 7 , a rigid bronchoscope was used . for the diagnosis of lung rejection , the histology of biopsies revealed a sensitivity of 91 % and specificity of 69 % ( similar to the result in adults ) . the histology also distinguished lung infection from rejection . complications included three pneumothoraces and two clinically significant episodes of hemorrhage , one of which led to a cardiorespiratory arrest , which may have been caused by hypoxia . as a result , arterial oxygen saturation is now monitored during the procedure using a pulse oximeter . 
dexamethasone effects on the hospital course of infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia who are dependent on artificial ventilation . a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial was conducted to evaluate the effects of enterally administered dexamethasone on the hospital course of infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia . a total of 23 infants with a birth weight less than 1500 g who were dependent on artificial ventilation 3 to 4 weeks of age received dexamethasone ( n = 12 ) or saline placebo ( n = 11 ) . dexamethasone ( 0.5 mg/kg per day ) was given in tapering doses for 7 days followed by hydrocortisone ( 8 mg/kg per day ) which was progressively reduced for a total of 17 days of therapy . infants who received dexamethasone required less oxygen on days 8 and 17 ( p less than .05 ) and were more likely to extubate 8 days after therapy than infants in the control group ( respectively 8/12 vs 3/11 infants , p less than .05 ; p = .12 after yates correction ) . the use of dexamethasone significantly shortened median duration of mechanical ventilation ( 4 vs 22 days , p less than .05 ) but had no effect on length of oxygen therapy , hospitalization , home oxygen therapy , occurrence and severity of retinopathy of prematurity , rate of growth , and mortality . no significant complications resulted from dexamethasone therapy . measurements of plasma dexamethasone levels confirmed the absorption of drug from the gastrointestinal tract ( 23.7 ng/ml in dexamethasone vs 4.6 ng/ml in the control group , p less than .05 ) . dexamethasone administration resulted in short-term improvements in pulmonary function but did not ameliorate the hospital course of infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia . 
peripheral vascular disorders . assessment and intervention . peripheral vascular diseases are being seen with increased frequency in the health care setting today . it is imperative that nurses have a clear understanding of arterial , venous , and lymphatic circulatory mechanisms as well as the pathophysiologic changes that accompany common diseases of these systems . providing the ongoing assessment to obtain a diagnosis , establish the acute versus chronic nature of findings , monitor progression , plan care , and assess the response to treatment is an important role for the nurse in order to preserve function , life , and limb in these patients . 
arrhythmias in patients with chf . should they be treated ? ventricular arrhythmias are a major cause of death in patients with congestive heart failure . dr ellenbogen and his associates discuss the current thinking , based on recent studies , concerning use of antiarrhythmic agents to prevent sudden cardiac death in these patients . as they point out , the proper antiarrhythmic therapy may be crucial to long-term survival . 
potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias . minimizing the danger . patients with potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias are at an increased risk of sudden death . antiarrhythmic drugs , with the exception of beta blockers and possibly amiodarone , have not been particularly effective in reducing mortality . beta blockers have been used successfully to treat survivors of myocardial infarction , including patients with significant impairment of ventricular function . evidence to date suggests that use of low-dose amiodarone may be appropriate for selected patients with chronic heart failure and potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias . 
mitral valve prolapse . when is it serious ? mitral valve prolapse can best be diagnosed with careful clinical evaluation , including dynamic auscultation . treatment consists of reassurance , pharmacotherapy for troublesome symptoms , and careful monitoring for signs of complications . most complications can be either prevented or treated . 
a 47-kda human nuclear protein recognized by antikinetochore autoimmune sera is homologous with the protein encoded by rcc1 , a gene implicated in onset of chromosome condensation . several autoimmune sera from patients with raynaud phenomenon decorated mammalian kinetochores and bound to a 47-kda protein on immunoblots of nuclear lysates . antibody affinity-purified from immunoblots of the 47-kda band recognized kinetochores , but due to crossreaction with an 18-kda protein , localization remains elusive . we used one of these sera to purify the antigen from hela cells synchronized in mitosis as a noncovalent complex with a 25-kda protein . the antigen was released from dna by intercalation with 25 mm chloroquine . ion-exchange chromatography yielded the pure complex with an apparent molecular size of 68 kda , which was separated into its components by gel filtration in 6 m guanidinium chloride . upon two-dimensional gel electrophoresis the 47-kda protein gave two main spots of pi 6.6 and 6.7 , respectively . posttranslational modification is indicated by additional antigenic spots , by lack of a free alpha-amino group , and by chromatographic behavior of peptides on reversed-phase chromatography . the amino acid sequence for 205 residues of the 47-kda protein has been established . this sequence is highly homologous with the translated reading frame of rcc1 , a gene reportedly involved in regulating onset of mammalian chromosome condensation . 
direct monitoring of capillary perfusion following normovolemic hemodilution in an experimental skin-flap model . the effects of normovolemic hemodilution on skin flap survival are studied in a recently developed skin-flap model ( homozygous hairless mouse ear ) in which nutritional capillary flow is monitored directly by means of intravital microscopy from the time of flap creation throughout the establishment of necrosis . two diluting agents ( dextran 60 and hydroxyethyl starch 200 ) are utilized . our quantitative findings demonstrate that the amount of nonperfused tissue following flap creation in both the dextran ( n = 23 ) and starch ( n = 13 ) groups was significantly decreased as compared with controls ( n = 19 ) . our qualitative observations suggest that improved hemorrheologic properties at the microcirculatory level are responsible for the observed decreased necrosis . various mechanisms by which hemodilution may act to prevent necrosis are discussed . 
factors determining success and energy requirements for cardioversion of atrial fibrillation . factors thought to affect the success of and energy requirements for cardioversion of atrial fibrillation were studied in 80 ( 49 male , 31 female ) patients aged 21-88 ( mean 61.5 years ) . transthoracic impedance was measured in advance of the countershock using a 30 khz low amplitude ac current passed through self-adhesive ecg/defibrillator pads ( diameters 8-12 cm ) applied to the chest in the antero-posterior ( ap ) position in 57 patients and the anteroapical ( aa ) position in 23 patients . mean transthoracic impedance for all patients was 69.3 + / - 16 ( sd ) ohms ( range 39-131 ohms ) , but transthoracic impedance was significantly greater in the aa than the ap position ( 75.4 + / - 13 vs. 66.7 + / - 16 ohms , p = 0.02 ) . initial energy was 50 j ( delivered ) and was gradually increased to a maximum of 360 j if required . cardioversion was successful in 73 of 80 ( 91.2 per cent ) , and low energy shocks ( less than or equal to 200 j ) were successful in 45 of 80 ( 56.2 per cent ) patients . using single factor analysis , sex , left atrial enlargement , electrode pad positions , aetiology of atrial fibrillation , presence of left ventricular failure , and prior treatment with verapamil or beta-adrenergic blockers were not significant determinants of cardioversion success or success of low energy shocks but prior treatment with digoxin was , both for cardioversion success and success at low energies . in patients with transthoracic impedance less than or equal to 70 ohms , low energy shocks were more often successful ( 33 or 50 , 66 per cent ) than in patients with transthoracic impedance greater than 70 ohms ( 12 of 30 , 40 per cent ) , p = 0.04 . using univariate analysis , cardioversion success with low energy shocks was not only significantly associated with prior treatment with digoxin but also with the duration of atrial fibrillation ( 24 hours to one month and one month to three years ) and for shocks of less than or equal to 100 j , with prior treatment with amiodarone . multifactorial linear regression analysis selected , in rank order , only duration of atrial fibrillation of 24 hours to less than one month and one month to three years as significant predictors of both cardioversion success irrespective of shock strength , and success of low energy shocks . 
in vitro colony culture and chromosomal studies in hepatic and portal vein thrombosis -- possible evidence of an occult myeloproliferative state . we have studied the prevalence of an underlying myeloproliferative state in 20 patients with either hepatic or portal vein thrombosis . using conventional clinical and laboratory criteria , an underlying myeloproliferative state was identified as the cause of the thrombosis in five patients ( 25 % ) . a further 10 of the remaining 15 cases were found to have characteristic in vitro bone marrow culture studies and cytogenetic abnormalities suggestive of an underlying myeloproliferative disorder . although none of these 10 cases have developed overt clinical and laboratory features of such a myeloproliferative disorder after a median observation period of two years , the presence of clonal karyotypic abnormalities in three cases , increased megakaryocyte colony growth in three cases and endogenous erythropoietin independent colony growth of the marrow erythroid progenitors in seven cases , argues strongly in favour of a primary haematological disorder . this has important therapeutic implications , particularly in cases being considered for orthotopic liver transplantation . 
the management of atypical non-cardiac chest pain . atypical , non-cardiac chest pain is common and disabling , and often persists despite negative medical investigations . aetiology is disputed and management is difficult . a multi-causal model in which both psychological and physical factors play a part is helpful ; a fundamental factor is continued misinterpretation of minor physical symptoms as evidence of heart disease . we report supportive evidence and describe a psychological treatment derived from the model . in a randomized trial , cognitive behavioural methods were effective in reducing chest pain , disability and use of medication , in patients both with and without psychiatric disorder . the clinical implications are discussed . 
brucella endocarditis : the role of combined medical and surgical treatment . brucella endocarditis , although a rare complication of brucellosis , is the main cause of death related to this disease . this report describes a case of aortic endocarditis due to brucella abortus in an elderly farmer with known aortic stenosis . urgent valve replacement was performed because of progressive heart failure despite appropriate antimicrobial treatment . the infection was cured with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and rifampin given for 3 months after surgery . a review of the literature reports on the 38 other cases of cured brucella endocarditis made clear the need for combined antimicrobial treatment and surgical valve replacement . 
endocarditis due to ampicillin-resistant nontyphoid salmonella : cure with a third-generation cephalosporin . a case of ampicillin-resistant salmonella bacteremia complicated by endocarditis in a 78-year-old man is presented . previous rheumatic valvular heart disease and the lack of response to initial treatment with chloramphenicol prompted us to consider this diagnosis . there was a good clinical response after treatment with ceftriaxone alone and corresponding improvement on the echocardiogram . this case demonstrates the possible endovascular complications of salmonella bacteremia in elderly people and that endocarditis should be included among the invasive infections due to ampicillin-resistant salmonella that could potentially be treated with the newer cephalosporins . 
listerial myocarditis in cardiac transplantation . clinical signs of heart failure developed in two cardiac transplant recipients and were interpreted initially as graft rejection . morphologic examination of explanted hearts revealed myocarditis with abscess formation and necrosis consistent with a bacterial process ; listeria monocytogenes was isolated from myocardial tissue in the first case and from blood in both . the first patient also developed signs of meningoencephalitis , but the second had no signs of infection outside the heart . antimicrobial therapy and retransplantation were successful in eradicating listeriosis . the differential diagnosis of heart failure in cardiac transplant recipients includes infectious myocarditis due to l. monocytogenes . 
primary prevention of coronary artery disease through a family-oriented cardiac risk factor clinic . primary prevention of coronary artery disease in children and young adults is important and can be instituted through a family-oriented cardiac risk factor clinic . such a clinic was initiated at the medical college of georgia in march 1988 . children whose total cholesterol level ( tc ) exceeded 200 mg/dl when screened by their primary care physician were referred with their siblings and parents for fasting lipid profile and further evaluation . data are available for the initial 21 families , including 30 children and 36 adults . the mean tc level was 258 mg/dl for index cases , 195 mg/dl for siblings , and 233 mg/dl for parents . follow-up data obtained after therapy at a mean of 6 months are available for 12 families , including 14 children and 14 adults . the mean change in tc was from 265 to 246 mg/dl ; 82 % of the patients had a decrease in tc . only one index case was documented as having neither a sibling nor a parent with an elevated cholesterol level . family-oriented cardiac risk factor clinics are important for the identification and treatment of hypercholesterolemia in asymptomatic young people when primary prevention is possible . 
postural hypotension : pressor effect of octreotide not mediated by norepinephrine . orthostatic hypotension of the shy-drager syndrome is a chronic incapacitating condition characterized by lack of an appropriate increase in the plasma norepinephrine level in response to standing . recently , the somatostatin analogue octreotide has been reported to induce a pressor response in patients having this syndrome . we have reported a case of shy-drager syndrome in which octreotide was effective , but the rise in blood pressure was not accompanied by an increase in the plasma norepinephrine level . hence , the pressor effect of octreotide is not mediated by stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system , but probably through splanchnic vasoconstriction . 
arteriovenous malformation of the tongue . polyvinyl alcohol particles used to embolize an arteriovenous malformation of the tongue were only temporarily successful . additional embolization therapy was necessary and was complicated by ischemic ulcers of the tongue . we conclude that embolization therapy can be used , but the efficacy of this therapy in the longer term remains to be determined . 
neurologic abnormalities in a patient with human ehrlichiosis . human ehrlichiosis is a tick-borne rickettsial disease characterized by fever , headache , myalgias , anorexia , and occasionally rash . in our patient , changes in mental status , upper motor neuron signs , cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis , and increased serum protein levels were found in association with serologically confirmed ehrlichiosis and were most likely due to vasculitis involving the central nervous system . intraleukocytic inclusions , although observed in our case , have been infrequently found in other reported cases of ehrlichiosis . 
left ventricular pseudoaneurysm complicating mitral valve replacement in a 4-year-old child with acute bacterial endocarditis . a 4-year-old child with acute bacterial endocarditis required mitral valve replacement . a left ventricular pseudoaneurysm developed following surgery . the etiology and diagnosis of this complication are discussed . 
deleterious effects of testicular venous occlusion in young rats . to determine the differences between testicular arterial and venous obstruction , the spermatic artery or vein , or both , were occluded for varying periods of time in young rats . two months later , at the conclusion of the study , the testes were examined . histologic degeneration after vascular obstruction was graded by a modified johnsen 's tubular biopsy score ( tbs ) . the testicular concentrations of enzymes ( lactic dehydrogenase and sorbitol dehydrogenase ) , known to decrease with testicular injury , were measured . tbs and seminiferous tubule diameter ( std ) were found to decrease significantly after two hours of vascular occlusion and were similar regardless of whether the obstruction was produced by occlusion of arterial inflow or venous drainage , or both . testicular concentration of enzymes decreased significantly after permanent ligation of the spermatic artery and vein , but decreased minimally when the vascular obstruction lasted less than 120 minutes . testicular injury produced by venous occlusion was equally severe and occurred as rapidly as injury produced by arterial or combined arteriovenous occlusion . no significant injury was noted in the contralateral testes in any group . 
an overview of intimal hyperplasia . many hypotheses have been postulated for the development of intimal hyperplasia in vein and prosthetic grafts . in these hypotheses , the central theme seems to be endothelial injury , but not always denuding injury . as we progress into the biologic era with more sophisticated research tools , the study of the endothelial cell may give us the answers to the problem of intimal hyperplasia . in addition , the leukocyte is still a relatively unknown entity and further modification of their function may hold promise . 
hepatic resection for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma with removal of portal vein tumor thrombi . in 13 of 398 patients who underwent hepatectomy , tumor thrombi of the remnant portal vein was concomitantly removed by the balloon catheter method in 8 , an open method under hepatic vascular exclusion in 1 , and resection of the occlusive portal segment followed by portal reconstruction in 4 . in 8 of these patients the liver was cirrhotic . the mode of hepatectomy consisted of bisegmetectomy or trisegmentectomy in 11 , segmentectomy in one , and partial resection in one patient . two patients died of portal thrombosis or hepatic failure in the hospital . the mean survival in four patients was 12 months . seven are still alive ( mean , 16 months ) . in the corresponding period , nine patients with occlusive tumor thrombi of the portal confluence were hospitalized without operation and survived up to 4 months ( mean , 64 days ) after detection of the tumoral occlusion . the causes of death of the nine patients were bleeding esophageal varices , rupture of the tumor , or hepatic failure . it was revealed that removal of tumor thrombi in the remnant portal vein contributes to ( 1 ) portal decompression , ( 2 ) feasibility of arterial embolization , and ( 3 ) increase in resectability of the main tumor . at present , this procedure might be regarded as an emergency procedure for the avoidance of the above lethal impendence , but it may open the door to an adjuvant therapy . 
sequential gradient pneumatic compression enhances venous ulcer healing : a randomized trial . the treatment of venous ulcers has remained largely unchanged for centuries . the application of properly applied graduated compression bandages , the use of graduated compression stockings , and surgery have been shown to achieve healing . however , some ulcers persist despite appropriate management . a randomized study was undertaken to compare two regimens of treatment for such patients . both regimens included ulcer debridement , cleaning , nonadherent dressing , and graduated compression stockings . in one regimen , sequential gradient intermittent pneumatic compression was applied for 4 hours each day . only one of 24 patients in the control group had complete healing of all ulcers compared with 10 of 21 patients healed in the intermittent pneumatic compression group . the median rate of ulcer healing in the control group was 2.1 % area per week compared to 19.8 % area per week in the intermittent pneumatic compression group . the results indicate that sequential gradient intermittent pneumatic compression is beneficial in the treatment of venous ulcers . 
portal vein resection with a new antithrombogenic catheter . curative resection of pancreatic and hepatobiliary tumors is rarely possible because of local invasion , especially into the portal vein . we developed a new antithrombogenic catheter using a heparinized hydrophilic polymer to allow portal vein bypass during resection of tumors invading the portal vein . pancreatectomy or hepatectomy accompanied by portal vein resection was performed for pancreatic or hepatobiliary cancer , with an intraoperative shunt from the superior mesenteric vein to the femoral vein or from the superior mesenteric vein to the intrahepatic portal vein through the umbilical vein or the hepatic hilar portal vein . use of the shunt prevented stasis in the superior mesenteric vein and hepatic ischemia even during prolonged occlusion of the portal vein , and portal vein resection was performed in 81 patients with hepatobiliary and pancreatic disease with greater safety and ease . 
gastric outlet obstruction caused by traumatic pseudoaneurysm of superior mesenteric artery . traumatic pseudoaneurysms of the superior mesenteric artery ( sma ) are extremely rare . we describe two cases of posttraumatic proximal sma pseudoaneurysms with symptoms of gastric outlet obstruction . repair was accomplished by aorta-sma bypass with saphenous vein . injuries to the proximal sma are easily missed at laparotomy , especially if intestinal ischemia or hematomas are absent . recognition and repair are stressed to avoid the complications associated with pseudoaneurysm formation . 
high ethanol consumption as risk factor for intracerebral hemorrhage in young and middle-aged people . we examined the prevalence of high ethanol intake , hypertension , and other risk factors for intracerebral hemorrhage in a case-control study of 24 young and middle-aged patients with intracerebral hemorrhage . we recorded ethanol consumption , history of hypertension , liver disease , cigarette smoking , and mild or severe coagulation disorder in each case of intracerebral hemorrhage and in 48 control patients matched by sex and age . in univariate matched analyses , the frequencies of high ethanol intake ( p = 0.009 ) , hypertension ( p = 0.05 ) , and coagulation disorder ( p = 0.05 ) were higher in the cases than in the controls . after controlling for possible confounding factors , we found that high ethanol intake and hypertension were the only independent risk factors for intracerebral hemorrhage ( p = 0.02 and p = 0.05 , respectively ) . the hemorrhagic lesion found in cases with a high ethanol intake tended to be located in the cerebral lobes ( p = 0.01 ) , contrasting with the typical basal ganglia location of hypertensive hematomas ( p = 0.009 ) . we conclude that chronic , high ethanol intake should be considered as an important risk factor for lobar hematomas in young and middle-aged people . 
stroke in systemic lupus erythematosus [ published erratum appears in stroke 1991 mar ; 22 ( 3 ) :417 ] we investigated the clinical and pathologic characteristics of stroke in 234 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus . thirteen patients ( 5.6 % ) developed cerebrovascular disease . cerebral infarction was noted in eight , cerebral hemorrhage in two , and subarachnoid hemorrhage in three . in seven ( 54 % ) of these 13 patients , stroke occurred less than or equal to 5 years after systemic lupus erythematosus was diagnosed . among the predisposing risk factors for stroke , hypertension was the most important . lupus anticoagulant was detected in three ( 38 % ) and anticardiolipin antibody in three ( 43 % of seven investigated ) of the patients with infarction . evaluation of the clinical manifestations and autoantibodies indicated that renal involvement and high titers of anti-deoxyribonucleic acid antibody were more frequent in the stroke group than in the non-stroke group . autopsy studies on six of the patients with stroke revealed small infarcts and hemorrhages in all , but in no case was true angiitis observed . libman-sacks endocarditis was found in two of the three patients with infarction . in conclusion , the important contributory factor to the development of stroke in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus is considered to be hypertension mediated by immunologic abnormalities . antiphospholipid antibodies and libman-sacks endocarditis are closely associated with occlusive cerebrovascular disease . 
regression of intracardiac thrombus after embolic stroke . using two-dimensional echocardiography , we studied the pathophysiology of intracardiac thrombus regression accompanied by anticoagulant therapy in 82 consecutive patients with acute cardiogenic cerebral embolism . we noted intracardiac thrombus in 15 patients ; nine of the 15 were started on anticoagulant therapy with warfarin potassium to maintain the prothrombin time between 2.5 and 3.5 ( international normalized ratio ) . serial two-dimensional echocardiograms were obtained for these nine patients before and after anticoagulation , with the plasma levels of fibrinopeptide a , fibrinopeptide b beta 15-42 , and d-dimer measured at the same time . in eight of the nine patients the intracardiac thrombi gradually decreased in size while the plasma level of fibrinopeptide a fell to within the normal range and the plasma levels of fibrinopeptide b beta 15-42 and d-dimer remained above the normal ranges . in the other patient the thrombus disappeared , with embolization to the right arm immediately after starting anticoagulant therapy . mobile or small thrombi regressed earlier than nonmobile or large ones . we conclude that regression of intracardiac thrombi after anticoagulation may be based on the relative predominance of plasma fibrinolytic activity over anticoagulation-inhibited thrombin activity . 
surgical experience with cerebral amyloid angiopathy . cerebral amyloid angiopathy can present as lobar intracerebral hemorrhage in an elderly person , presumably due to increased fragility of the vessels affected by amyloid deposition . for this reason , patients presenting with intracerebral hemorrhage and suspected of having cerebral amyloid angiopathy have often been treated nonsurgically . since 1983 we have evaluated 11 patients with cerebral amyloid angiopathy ( nine women and two men , mean age 73 years ) who have undergone either intracerebral hematoma evacuation or brain biopsy . nine of the 11 patients presented with intracerebral hemorrhage , which was unilobar in three patients and multilobar in six and involved the parietal lobes seven times , the frontal lobes four times , the temporal lobes four times , and the occipital lobes twice . these nine patients underwent hematoma removal , with no cases of abnormal intraoperative bleeding or recurrent hemorrhage . six patients improved neurologically , and two were unchanged after hematoma evacuation ; the remaining patient had a fatal cardiopulmonary arrest during the immediate postoperative period . during follow-up in seven patients ( median 11 months , range 1 week to 74 months ) none experienced a recurrent intracerebral hemorrhage and four continued to improve . two of the 11 patients had cerebral amyloid angiopathy diagnosed by brain biopsy as part of an evaluation for dementia , also without surgical complications . this series suggests that patients with cerebral amyloid angiopathy may safely undergo operative procedures , and patients presenting with intracerebral hemorrhage may show neurologic improvement following evacuation of the hematoma . 
ultrasonic evaluation of early carotid atherosclerosis . we investigated the prevalence of carotid atherosclerosis , including mild early lesions , and its association with cervical bruits and various risk factors ( age , male sex , hypertension , hyperlipidemia , diabetes mellitus , obesity , and cigarette smoking ) in 232 consecutive japanese patients . high-resolution real-time b-mode ultrasonography was performed to determine the extent of atherosclerosis , and it was quantified by using a scoring system . the prevalence of carotid atherosclerosis was 49 % , 59 % , and 41 % in all 232 patients , the 100 symptomatic patients , and the 132 asymptomatic patients , respectively . although carotid lesions were detected frequently ( 87 % ) in the 30 patients with cervical bruits , bruits were noted in only 30 % of the 88 examined patients with carotid atherosclerosis . independent risk factors for carotid atherosclerosis in these patients were found to be age , male sex , and hyperlipidemia ; diabetes mellitus was a possible risk factor for carotid atherosclerosis . our study did not show a close association between hypertension and carotid atherosclerosis , and this might be caused by the high prevalence of hypertension in our patients . our findings suggest an increasing prevalence of carotid atherosclerosis in the japanese , though this should be confirmed in a population-based study . our study demonstrates the clinical usefulness of high-resolution b-mode ultrasonography for the evaluation of early carotid atherosclerosis . 
moderate hypothermia after cardiac arrest of 17 minutes in dogs . effect on cerebral and cardiac outcome . moderate hypothermia ( 30 degrees c ) induced before circulatory arrest is known to improve neurologic outcome . we explored , for the first time in a reproducible dog outcome model , moderate hypothermia induced during reperfusion after cardiac arrest ( resuscitation ) . in three groups of six dogs each ( n = 18 ) , normothermic ventricular fibrillation cardiac arrest ( no blood flow ) of 17 minutes was reversed by cardiopulmonary bypass -- normothermic in control group i ( 37.5 degrees c ) and hypothermic to 3 hours in groups ii ( 32 degrees c ) and iii ( 28 degrees c ) . defibrillation was achieved in less than or equal to 5 minutes and partial bypass was continued to 4 hours , controlled ventilation to 20 hours , and intensive care to 96 hours . all 18 dogs survived . electroencephalographic activity returned significantly earlier in groups ii and iii . mean + / - sd best neurologic deficit between 48 and 96 hours was 44 + / - 8 % in group i , 38 + / - 12 % in group ii , and 35 + / - 7 % in group iii ( differences not significant ) . best overall performance category 2 ( good outcome ) between 48 and 96 hours was achieved in none of the six dogs in group i and in four of the 12 dogs in the combined hypothermic groups ii and iii ( difference not significant ) . mean + / - sd brain total histologic damage score was 130 + / - 22 in group i , 93 + / - 28 in group ii ( p = 0.05 ) , and 80 + / - 26 in group iii ( p = 0.03 ) . gross myocardial damage was greater in groups ii and iii than in group i -- numerically higher overall and significantly higher in group iii for the right ventricle alone ( p = 0.02 ) . moderate hypothermia after prolonged cardiac arrest may or may not improve cerebral outcome slightly and can worsen myocardial damage . 
effect of ischemia induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion on superoxide dismutase activity in rat brain . acute cerebral ischemia increases the generation of free radicals , causing cell damage , and theoretically may decrease the activity of the scavenging enzyme superoxide dismutase . to investigate the role of superoxide dismutase in cerebral ischemia , we used a model of middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats . in this model an infarct is produced in the pyriform and frontoparietal cortices , extending into the lateral basal ganglia . we measured superoxide dismutase activity by using the xanthine oxidase cytochrome c reduction assay in these areas of rat brains . tissue samples were analyzed 20 minutes , 2 , 6 , or 24 hours , or 7 days after middle cerebral artery occlusion and 2 or 24 hours or 7 days after sham operation ( n = 8-10 at each time ) . there was no significant change in superoxide dismutase activity relative to control values in any brain area at any time up to 24 hours after surgery . however , 7 days after middle cerebral artery occlusion a significant decline in superoxide dismutase activity , to 55 % -68 % ( p less than 0.05 ) of that in unoperated controls , was observed in all brain areas . our results do not support an important role for changes in the activity of endogenous superoxide dismutase during the acute phase of cerebral ischemia . however , the decrease in superoxide dismutase activity 7 days after ischemia could indicate ongoing additional damage to peri-infarct tissue . 
rebleeding from intracranial dissecting aneurysm in the vertebral artery . we describe two patients with rebleeding from intracranial vertebral artery dissecting aneurysms during the acute stage . one patient had excellent results after emergency surgery . a review of recent reports including 60 patients with this disorder revealed a rebleeding rate of 30 % , mostly during the acute stage . this suggests that a ruptured dissecting aneurysm in the vertebral artery is at risk for rebleeding during the acute stage , similar to a saccular aneurysm in the same location . 
protein phosphorylation during ischemia . many investigations have shown that calcium and adenosine triphosphate are crucial to central nervous system functions . it is probable that alterations of these substances during central nervous system ischemia are involved in the processes that cause irreversible neural damage . calcium regulates several protein kinases that are responsible for phosphorylation of proteins vital for many central nervous system functions . using a rabbit spinal cord ischemia model , we found protein kinase c and calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase were severely affected during the first hour of ischemia . protein kinase a was not significantly affected . the time course of lost protein kinase c enzyme activity closely corresponded to irreversible loss of neurologic function , and there is evidence that protein kinase c inhibitor activity is generated . also , drugs that inhibit protein kinase c increased neurologic damage when administered during the early phases of ischemia . these results suggest that protein phosphorylation , particularly by protein kinase c , is critical to maintenance of neurologic function . 
progress report of the stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation study . the stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation study recently found and reported ( spaf investigators , n engl j med , 1990 ; 322:863 -868 ) a beneficial effect of both warfarin and aspirin compared with placebo in the primary prevention of ischemic stroke and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation . among warfarin-eligible patients , the event rates were 1.6 % / yr for those receiving active antithrombotic therapy ( warfarin or aspirin ) and 8.3 % / yr for those receiving placebo ( p less than 0.00005 ) ( risk reduction 81 % , 95 % confidence interval 56-91 ) . ironically , we did not find a beneficial effect of aspirin in warfarin-ineligible patients . on the basis of these results , the study has been reshaped to directly compare these two antithrombotic agents . insight into the apparent aspirin unresponsiveness noted in some patients also is being sought . interpretation of the preliminary results and the reshaping of the study have been made more complex by the continued blinding of the investigators to certain portions of the data . presented is an account of the study from its inception through its recent redesign . 
modification of stroke susceptibility by genotype-dependent maternal influences . the influence of the prenatal and postnatal maternal environment on stroke susceptibility was evaluated by reciprocally crossing the spontaneously hypertensive ( shr ) and the dahl salt-sensitive ( ss/jr ) inbred rat strains to produce reciprocal f1 hybrids that were nurtured , respectively , during prenatal and postnatal life by shr or ss/jr mothers . following placement on a high-salt diet containing 8 % nacl at 35 days of age , f1 rats reared by shr mothers had shorter survival times and were more likely to die with cerebral hemorrhage than f1s reared by ss/jrs . across reciprocal f1 female groups , enhanced susceptibility to stroke was associated with greater elevations of systolic blood pressure , but this association was not seen across reciprocal f1 male groups . there was also an association between blood pressure and stroke within each f1/gender subgroup : rats eventually suffering strokes developed higher blood pressure after placement on the high-salt diet than rats that did not suffer stroke . lower day 35 body weights ( before exposure to the high-salt diet ) were associated with greater likelihood of stroke both across the reciprocal f1 groups , and within three of the four f1/gender subgroups . the differences in stroke susceptibility between the reciprocal f1 groupings may be due to systematic differences in the prenatal and/or postnatal environments of shr and ss/jr mothers and may be mediated by variations in the nutritive capacity of the two inbred mothers . 
neurogenic control of the cerebral circulation during global ischemia . the influence of the trigeminal nerve on the cerebral circulation was investigated in chronically denervated cats during and after reversible four-vessel occlusion for 10 minutes combined with controlled hypotension ( 50 mm hg ) . postocclusive hyperemia 30 minutes after reperfusion was attenuated by up to 48 % in cortical gray matter of the anterior , middle , and posterior cerebral artery territories on the side of trigeminal ganglionectomy . similar results were observed for denervation accomplished by direct surgical ablation and by the topical application of capsaicin to a cortical branch of the middle cerebral artery . denervation did not alter basal cerebral blood flow or the duration of hyperemia , nor did it impair the cerebrovascular response to hypercapnia . these data demonstrate the importance of neurogenic mechanisms in the development of postischemic hyperperfusion and suggest that strategies directed at blocking axon reflex-like mechanisms may be beneficial in reducing the morbidity that follows severe cortical hyperemia . 
coarctation of the aorta . coarctation of the aorta is a common cardiovascular disorder with an unknown etiology . in the preductal type , blood flows from a patent ductus into the distal aorta . when the coarctation is juxtaductal or postductal , blood flows to the lower extremities by way of the subclavian arteries and collaterals . plain films may show the reverse sign in postductal coarctation . arteriography is the gold standard for making the diagnosis . however , magnetic resonance imaging will probably become an increasingly important diagnostic tool . the treatment of choice is surgery , with complete resection of the stenosed segment . 
venous ulcers : pathophysiology and medical therapy . venous ulcers may occur as a result of lower extremity calf pump failure , with ensuing edema , trapping of white blood cells and deposition of pericapillary fibrin . acute , smaller lesions are easily treated with adequate compression and occlusive dressings . larger , more chronic wounds often benefit from some form of external compression . occlusive dressings and local wound care are most effective when used simultaneously with compression . sequential compression pumps merit study and may prove to be of therapeutic and prophylactic value . in refractory cases , long-term use of compression devices may be required to prevent ulcer recurrence . 
silent myocardial ischemia : dilemma or blessing ? developing an optimal strategy for the evaluation and management of patients with silent myocardial ischemia is extremely difficult . although otherwise healthy , asymptomatic individuals may be at risk of dying suddenly during exercise , neither exercise testing nor holter monitoring reliably identifies those at greatest risk . in patients with underlying coronary artery disease , silent ischemia increases the risk of an adverse outcome . 
persistent uptake of indium-111-antimyosin monoclonal antibody in patients with myocardial infarction . indium-111 ( 111in ) - antimyosin scintigraphy was investigated in 27 patients with myocardial infarction . 111in-antimyosin fab was administered intravenously , and planar and single photon emission computed tomographic images were obtained 48 hours later . uptake of 111in-antimyosin was present in 9 of 10 patients ( 90 % ) studied within 6 days of infarction . during the second week positive scans were seen in 16 of 16 patients ( 100 % ) including 13 ( 81 % ) who had normal creatine kinase levels . the mechanism of persistent positive antimyosin images in the subacute stage of myocardial infarction remains to be clarified . 111in-antimyosin scintigraphy may be useful as a noninvasive method for the detection of myocardial injury late and early after a suspected acute myocardial infarction . 
coronary perfusion catheter : its effectiveness in an experimental model of acute coronary occlusion . the effectiveness of a coronary perfusion catheter was studied in an animal model of acute coronary occlusion . systemic hemodynamic variables , regional myocardial blood flow ( rmbf ) in the subepicardium and subendocardium , and regional systolic function ( systolic segmental shortening ) of the area perfused by the circumflex coronary artery ( cx ) were measured in eight anesthetized dogs . after baseline measurements , the cx coronary artery was occluded with a silk snare and measurements were repeated after 5 minutes of ischemia ( occlusion no . 1 ) . the snare was released and 1 hour later the snare occlusion was repeated after placement of a perfusion catheter in the cx coronary artery . after 5 minutes , measurements were repeated ( occlusion no . 2 ) . to determine the long-term effectiveness of the catheter , hemodynamic variables and regional function measurements were then obtained every 15 minutes for a total of 60 minutes . during occlusion no . 1 , rmbf decreased from 1.30 + / - 0.20 to 0.41 + / - 0.13 ml.min-1 . gm-1 ( p less than 0.01 ) , and subendocardial rmbf decreased from 1.44 + / - .24 to 0.34 + / - 0.15 ml.min-1 . gm-1 ( p less than 0.01 ) . after insertion of the perfusion catheter ( occlusion no . 2 ) , subepicardial rmbf was maintained at 0.97 + / - 0.16 and subendocardial rmbf was maintained at 0.78 + / - 0.13 ml.min-1 . gm-1 ; during occlusion no . 2 subepicardial rmbf was greater ( p less than 0.05 ) than occlusion no . 1 and was not different from baseline . 
dose-dependent reduction of myocardial infarct size with the perfluorochemical fluosol-da . the perfluorochemical fluosol-da has been shown to reduce infarct size . however , the dose-response relationship of the agent is unknown . because perfluorochemicals ( pfc ) can potentially saturate the reticuloendothelial system and decrease carbon clearance as well as cause a transient elevation in liver enzymes , the present study was conducted to determine the lowest effective dose . new zealand white rabbits ( n = 73 ) were randomly selected prior to infarction to receive 10 , 15 , 20 , 25 , or 30 ml/kg pfc or an equivalent volume of 5 % dextran ( control ) intravenously . animals underwent 30 minutes of coronary artery occlusion with pfc or dextran infused over a 30-minute period starting at 20 minutes into the occlusion . animals were put to death at 24 hours and infarct size was determined histologically and quantitated by computerized planimetry . neutrophil infiltration into the ischemic myocardium was evaluated semiquantitatively . no hemodynamic differences were noted within groups . infarct size was similar to that of controls in animals treated with 10 or 15 ml/kg pfc. significant infarct size reduction , however , was noted in animals treated with 20 , 25 , and 30 ml/kg pfc versus controls ; ( p = 0.05 , 0.04 , and 0.02 , respectively ) . maximal infarct size reduction was seen with 30 ml/kg pfc ( 35 % ) . neutrophil infiltration was significantly decreased in all groups treated with pfc. these results show that intravenous fluosol-da significantly reduces infarct size at a minimal dose of 20 ml/kg . 
left ventricular asynchrony : an indicator of regional myocardial dysfunction . there is a marked heterogeneity of myocardial wall thickening within the left ventricle and among different individuals . it is therefore difficult to detect regional myocardial dysfunction from absolute values of systolic wall thickening . we tested whether the extent of left ventricular asynchrony during ischemia and reperfusion can be used to quantify the severity of regional myocardial dysfunction when nonischemic baseline function is not known . in six anesthetized , open-chest dogs regional myocardial wall thickness was measured by means of sonomicrometry under control conditions , at three degrees of ischemic dysfunction ( mild , moderate , and severe ) , and after release of a 15-minute occlusion of the left circumflex coronary artery , when degrees of moderate and mild reperfusion dysfunction similar to the preceding ischemic dysfunction were present . two indexes of left ventricular asynchrony were calculated : ( 1 ) postejection thickening ( pet ) and ( 2 ) the phase difference of the first fourier harmonic of posterior versus anterior myocardial wall motion ( pd ) . systolic myocardial wall thickening was decreased from 15.3 + / - 3.1 ( standard deviation ) % ( control value ) to 9.7 + / - 1.4 % ( mild ischemia ) , 4.2 + / - 1.6 % ( moderate ischemia ) , and -3.7 + / - 3.1 % ( severe ischemia ) . conversely pet increased from 0.02 + / - 0.04 mm ( control value ) to 0.15 + / - 0.22 mm ( mild ischemia ) , 0.19 + / - 0.15 mm ( moderate ischemia ) , and 0.50 + / - 0.26 mm ( severe ischemia ) . pd increased from 9 + / - 28 degrees ( control value ) to 22 + / - 19 degrees ( mild ischemia ) , 54 + / - 18 degrees ( moderate ischemia ) , and 107 + / - 21 degrees ( severe ischemia ) . after release of the 15-minute left circumflex coronary artery occlusion , pet and pd recovered to 0.34 + / - 0.19 mm and 36 + / - 24 degrees ( moderate dysfunction ) and 0.25 + / - 0.31 mm and 29 + / - 8 degrees ( mild dysfunction ) , respectively . there were inverse linear relationships between systolic wall thickening and pet ( r = -0.86 , p less than 0.001 ) and between systolic wall thickening and pd ( r = -0.87 , p less than 0.001 ) . inotropic stimulation by postextrasystolic potentiation increased regional systolic myocardial posterior and anterior wall thickening but did not alter the extent of left ventricular asynchrony . thus , when normal baseline function is not known , the severity of regional myocardial dysfunction at a given inotropic state can be determined by analysis of left ventricular asynchrony . there was no significant correlation between the extent of pet and pd during ischemia and at early reperfusion and the recovery of contractile function at late reperfusion . thus pet does not provide a prospective marker for the functional outcome of reperfusion . 
detection and quantitation of ischemic left ventricular dysfunction using a new video intensity technique for regional wall motion evaluation . eighty patients with ischemic heart disease and 17 normal subjects were evaluated for left ventricular regional wall motion by means of a new method . the wall motion analysis is based on video intensity . this technique uses a temporally sliding analysis to evaluate the cardiac cycle in 100 msec intervals . presence of coronary artery disease was defined as more than 50 % measured diameter stenosis . wall motion abnormalities in regions perfused by stenotic vessels were most common in early diastole ( 76 % ) . sensitivity of this method at rest in patients with coronary artery disease was 79.7 % ( p less than 0.0001 ) and overall accuracy was 84.2 % ( p less than 0.0001 ) . abnormalities in both systole and diastole were more common in regions perfused by severe lesions ( greater than 75 % ) than in those perfused by moderately stenotic ( less than 75 % ) vessels ( p less than 0.05 ) . a comparison of the new method with phase and amplitude analysis was performed in 15 patients and with two-frame analysis in 40 patients . this new method yielded a higher sensitivity than either of the other two methods . 
silent myocardial ischemia and infarction in diabetics with peripheral vascular disease : assessment by dipyridamole thallium-201 scintigraphy . we investigated the incidence of silent myocardial ischemia and infarction as assessed by dipyridamole thallium scintigraphy in 30 diabetic patients with peripheral vascular disease and without clinical suspicion of coronary artery disease . seventeen patients ( 57 % ) had thallium abnormalities , with reversible thallium defects compatible with ischemia in 14 patients ( 47 % ) and evidence of prior , clinically silent myocardial infarction in 11 patients ( 37 % ) . thallium abnormalities were most frequent in patients with concomitant hypertension and cigarette smoking ( p = 0.001 ) . these results suggest that unsuspected coronary artery disease is common in this particular group of patients with diabetes mellitus . 
angiography , angioscopy , and ultrasound imaging before and after percutaneous balloon angioplasty . we report two patients undergoing peripheral percutaneous transluminal angioplasty in whom angiography , angioscopy , and ultrasound imaging were performed before and after balloon angioplasty . the first case with smooth atheroma diagnosed by angiography was found to have unrecognized partially occlusive thrombus by angioscopy . after angioplasty , an intimal tear was identified by angioscopy and ultrasound but it was not seen by angiography . the intravascular ultrasound image showed the tear to extend to the adventitia . in the second case , an apparently smooth intimal surface as imaged by angiography was found by angioscopy and ultrasound to have extensive damage , including subintimal hemorrhage , intimal flaps , and arterial dissection at the angioplasty site . these data suggest that the type of information derived from the three imaging techniques is quite different , and that each may have a specific role in intravascular diagnosis . 
coronary angioplasty in symptomatic patients after bypass surgery . with the availability of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) , the management of patients who present with recurrent angina following coronary artery bypass surgery ( cabg ) has changed . from january 1987 to december 1988 , 149 symptomatic post cabg patients underwent coronary angiography at our institution . ninety were treated with medical antianginal therapy , 14 had repeat surgery , and 45 underwent ptca . complications of repeat cabg included one death , two perioperative myocardial infarctions , and four patients with postoperative supraventricular arrhythmia . ptca was performed on 42 lesions in 37 native vessels ( 88 % success rate ) , and on 24 lesions in 23 vein grafts ( 91.7 % success rate ) . complications included acute reocclusion ( one patient ) , peripheral artery occlusion ( one patient ) , hematoma formation ( one patient ) , and periprocedure myocardial infarction ( one patient ) . no deaths occurred . at a mean follow-up of 5.9 + / - 3.8 months , 10 patients had recurrent symptoms , six of whom were found to have restenosis . repeat ptca was successfully accomplished in four patients ; the other two were treated medically . it is concluded that ptca is a feasible alternative to repeat cabg in selected patients and can be achieved with a high success rate and minimal complications . 
clinical significance of simple heart rate-adjusted st segment depression in supine leg exercise in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease . to evaluate the clinical significance of simple heart rate-adjusted st segment depression ( delta st/delta hr ) in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease , 42 patients with stable exertional angina underwent supine leg exercise testing and cardiac catheterization . during exercise , heart rate , a multilead electrocardiogram , and pulmonary artery wedge pressure were recorded . the sensitivity and accuracy of the delta st/delta hr criteria ( greater than or equal to 3.0 microv/beat/min ) were significantly greater than the conventional analysis of st segment depression criteria ( greater than or equal to 0.2 mv ) for detecting three-vessel coronary artery disease at a matched specificity of 72 % ( 100 % versus 46 % , 81 % versus 64 % , p less than 0.01 ) . a significant linear correlation was found between maximum pulmonary artery wedge pressure increments during exercise ( delta pawp ) or gensini score and the delta st/delta hr ( delta pawp : r = 0.51 , p less than 0.001 ; gensini score : r = 0.47 , p less than 0.001 ) . there were no statistically significant differences in the delta pawp or gensini score between patients with three-vessel disease who had delta st/delta hr greater than or equal to 3.0 microv/beat/min and those with one - or two-vessel disease who had delta st/delta hr greater than or equal to 3.0 microv/beat/min ( delta pawp : 18.1 + / - 2.0 versus 21.9 + / - 3.3 , p = ns ; gensini score : 68.5 + / - 6.6 versus 66.3 + / - 11.3 , p = ns ) . these findings demonstrate that delta st/delta hr is more useful than a conventional analysis of st segment depression for identifying not only anatomically severe coronary artery disease but also functionally severe coronary artery disease . 
ace inhibition improves vagal reactivity in patients with heart failure . the deranged autonomic control of heart rate was studied in 34 patients with heart failure ( new york heart association [ nyha ] functional class ii to iii ) by examining the carotid sinus baroreflex . the carotid sinus baroreceptors were stimulated by graded suction . the slope of the regression line between increases in cycle length and the degree of neck suction was taken as an index of baroreflex sensitivity . the reflex response is mediated by a selective increase of vagal efferent activity . baroreflex sensitivity therefore represents a measure of vagal reactivity . using multiple regression analysis , baroreflex sensitivity ( bs ) correlated positively to stroke volume index ( svi ) and inversely to plasma renin activity ( pra ) and to age : bs = 0.47 svi - 0.38 pra - 0.23 age + constant ( r = 0.74 ; p less than 0.0005 ) . in addition to digitalis and diuretics , angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitors ( captopril or enalapril ) were given to 16 patients for a mean of 17 + / - 3 days . the patients with hemodynamic improvement ( group a ) exhibited improved baroreflex sensitivity ( 1.4 + / - 0.4 to 3.6 + / - 1.2 msec/mm hg ; p less than 0.01 ) . baroreflex sensitivity remained unchanged ( 3.1 + / - 0.8 to 2.4 + / - 1.0 msec/mm hg ; n.s. ) in the patients without hemodynamic improvement ( group b ) . the increase in reflex sensitivity did not correlate with hemodynamic alterations . baroreflex sensitivity during ace inhibition ( bsd ) was only related to the baseline baroreflex sensitivity ( bsb ) : bsd = 2.8 bsb - 0.46 ( r = 0.84 ; p less than 0.005 ) . in patients with heart failure , reflex bradycardia decreases with age and with pra and increases with stroke volume . chronic therapy with ace inhibitors enhances vagal reactivity in patients with hemodynamic improvement . 
are ioxaglate and iopamidol equally safe and well tolerated in cardiac angiography ? a randomized , double-blind clinical study . a randomized , double-blind , parallel-group study was performed in 50 patients undergoing left ventriculography and coronary arteriography to evaluate ecg changes and the effects on left ventricular function of a low-osmolar ionic contrast agent , ioxaglate , as compared with a low-osmolar nonionic contrast medium , iopamidol . twenty-five patients received ioxaglate ( group 1 ) and 25 patients received iopamidol ( group 2 ) . all patients underwent 48 hours of continuous ecg recording beginning 24 hours before the cardiac catheterization . left ventricular systolic and end-diastolic pressure , peak positive dp/dt , and dp/dt/p ratio were measured immediately before and after left ventriculography and 3 minutes later . left ventricular systolic pressure did not change after injection of either contrast medium . left ventricular end-diastolic pressure increased by 30 % in group 1 ( p less than 0.01 ) and by 22 % in group 2 ( p less than 0.01 ) immediately after left ventriculography . a further increase by 45 % in group 1 ( p less than 0.01 ) and by 24 % in group 2 ( p less than 0.01 ) was observed 3 minutes later . no differences were observed between values obtained in the two groups . peak positive dp/dt did not change immediately after injection of either contrast medium but decreased by 5 % ( not significant ) in group 1 and by 7 % ( p less than 0.02 ) in group 2 three minutes after left ventriculography . there were no significant differences between the two groups . analysis of continuous 48-hour ecgs showed that both ioxaglate and iopamidol induced a slight increase ( by 8 % and 7 % , respectively ; p less than 0.05 ) in heart rate during injection with early and complete recovery . 
transesophageal echocardiography in the awake elderly patient : its role in the clinical decision-making process . to assess the impact on the management and safety of transesophageal echocardiography ( tee ) in the elderly population , the results and limitations of this technique were retrospectively analyzed in 88 patients . tee was indicated whenever the transthoracic approach was not diagnostic or was inconsistent with the clinical setting . the most frequent clinical indications were to investigate the source of emboli , assess valvular regurgitation , and identify valvular vegetations . in 72 patients ( 82 % ) tee significantly influenced management decisions . in selected patients tee avoided the use of more invasive diagnostic procedures . adverse effects included occasional premature atrial or ventricular beats ( 11 patients ) , sinus bradycardia ( six patients ) , and protracted nausea ( one patient ) . we conclude that in elderly patients with cardiovascular diseases , tee plays a significant role in the decision-making process without adding a significant risk . 
noninvasive assessment of cardiac output in children using impedance cardiography . this study evaluated the effect of intracardiac shunting on the accuracy of thoracic bioimpedance-derived cardiac output determinations . twenty-six patients , ranging in age from 3 months to 17 years , underwent cardiac catheterization during which simultaneous fick and impedance measurements of cardiac output were obtained . the subjects were divided into three groups : 10 children with no intracardiac shunts , nine children with predominant left-to-right intracardiac shunts , and seven children with predominant right-to-left intracardiac shunts . positive correlations between impedance and fick-derived cardiac output determinations were obtained in the non-shunt group ( r = 0.84 ) , with lower correlations in the left-to-right shunt group ( r = 0.70 ) . in the right-to-left shunt group , the impedance derived cardiac output correlated with fick pulmonary flow ( r = 0.82 ) , but the variability was unacceptably large . although further study is needed , impedance cardiography appears to have validity as a methodology in pediatric critical care and cardiovascular health research . 
cardiac fluoroscopy for the diagnosis of coronary artery disease : a meta analytic review . to evaluate variability in the reported accuracy of fluoroscopically detected coronary calcific deposits for predicting angiographic coronary disease , we applied meta analysis to 13 consecutively published reports comparing the results of cardiac fluoroscopy with coronary angiography . population characteristics and technical and methodologic factors were analyzed . sensitivity and specificity for predicting serious coronary disease compare quite well with those from the literature on the exercise ecg and the exercise thallium scintigram . sensitivity increases and specificity decreases more significantly with patient age , and sensitivity is paradoxically lower in laboratories testing patients with more severe disease , as well as when 70 % rather than 50 % diameter narrowing is used to define angiographic disease . work-up and test review bias were also significantly related to reported accuracy . 
is obesity-related hypertension less of a cardiovascular risk ? the framingham study . the hypothesis that obesity-related hypertension is relatively innocuous was explored by an examination of cardiovascular events over 34 years of follow-up when related to biennially measured weights and blood pressures using time-dependent covariate proportional hazards analysis . the 5209 participants were also classified by age , cigarette smoking , and antihypertensive treatment at each of four baseline examinations with 8-year follow-up periods . over the period of follow-up , there were 978 cardiovascular events in men and 836 in women . risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in general and of chd in particular was as strongly related to hypertension at all levels of body mass index . this was also found to apply when adjustment was made for possible confounding by cigarette smoking . age and smoking-adjusted absolute risks of cardiovascular events were found to be higher in hypertensive individuals with high than with low bmis . furthermore , the relative risk of cardiovascular disease did not vary significantly with bmi . thus hypertension is at least as dangerous in obese as in lean persons at all ages in either sex , providing no support for the hypothesis that hypertension in the obese is more benign . this is important , since obesity predisposes to hypertension and most who have hypertension are obese . this report examines the hypothesis for cvd outcomes considered by previous reports and also the subcategories of cvd disease such as myocardial infarction and stroke , and includes data on both men and women and on young and old . 
experimental contrast-associated nephropathy and its clinical implications . acute renal failure after contrast media injection has been recognized for at least 35 years but the exact mechanism responsible for the renal injury remains an enigma . the clinical characteristics of contrast-induced nephropathy ( can ) are well-known although more recently the nonoliguric presentation has occurred at an increased frequency -- in 70 to 90 % of cases . for nonoliguric presentation of can , one can expect an asymptomatic increase in serum creatinine , the mean peak occurring at 4.2 days . if oliguric , the fractional excretion of sodium will be less than 1 % and resistant to either fluid challenge or loop diuretics . preexisting renal insufficiency , with or without diabetes mellitus , increases the risk of can 6 - to 10-fold but recovery is expected , with less than 10 % of all patients requiring dialytic support . despite the growing body of published reports , the lack of a suitable animal model to evaluate various proposed mechanisms of renal injury has compromised our ability to devise a technique for preventing can . a popular scheme has been proposed to describe the possible sequence by which ischemia or nephrotoxins , or both , induce acute renal failure . in particular , a vascular mechanism ( i.e. , ischemia ) , is an appealing explanation for can since acute changes in renal hemodynamics after contrast media injection have been confirmed by several animal experiments . unlike other vascular beds in which contrast media induce acute vasoconstriction followed by vasodilatation , the initial effect on the renal circulation is acute vasodilatation , followed by progressive vasoconstriction , increasing renal vascular resistance and a concomitant decrease in both renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate . 
a hematologist 's view of contrast media , clotting in angiography syringes and thrombosis during coronary angiography . while ionic contrast media ( cm ) are stronger anticoagulants and antiplatelet agents , both nonionic and ionic cm retard clotting , fibrinopeptide a generation and platelet aggregation ( at least by born-o'brien aggregometry ) . thus , nonionic cm do not cause clots and thrombi . rather , the driving force for clot or thrombus formation , when it occurs , is blood contact with and activation by the foreign surface of a syringe or catheter itself . a marked enhancement of clotting by glass syringes in comparison to plastic ones supports this view . blood in any syringe or catheter , therefore , will clot more slowly in the presence of nonionic or ionic cm , the inhibitory effects of the latter being more profound . with respect to models of thrombosis at sites of vascular injury or stenosis , the antithrombotic effects of cm may either be transient owing to the dynamic nature of blood flow ( local endothelial cell denudation model ) , or as in the case of ionic cm , actually to enhance local platelet aggregation ( stenosis model ) . in these situations , preservation of the antithrombotic functions of endothelium with nonionic cm may be quite critical . 
clinical cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging . magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) is a powerful tool providing high-resolution images of the heart and great vessels without the use of ionizing radiation or contrast agents . mri systems currently in use at many hospitals can be used effectively in the routine , clinical evaluation of many forms of cardiovascular disease , including great vessel disease , ischemic cardiac disease and congenital cardiac disease . moreover , quantitative and cine mri techniques are now available , which provide highly accurate measures of chamber size , wall motion and wall thickening . recent developments in the areas of myocardial tagging , high-speed imaging and mr assessments of flow and perfusion suggest potential for an increasing role of mri in the clinical evaluation of the cardiovascular system . 
clinical nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy : insight into metabolism . nuclear magnetic resonance ( nmr ) spectroscopy can nondestructively evaluate changes in metabolites with different disease states , as well as with therapeutic interventions . animal studies have provided the basis for understanding changes in high-energy phosphates with myocardial ischemia . studies of graded ischemia due to partial coronary stenosis have shown the sensitivity of the ratio of phosphocreatinine to inorganic phosphate to small reductions in myocardial blood flow and its relation to myocardial function . the application of nmr spectroscopy to humans requires precise localization techniques to avoid acquiring contaminating information from structures around the heart , such as the chest wall and diaphragm . with these localization techniques , metabolic evidence of ischemia has been demonstrated in patients with myocardial infarction and patients with known coronary disease , although the sensitivity of this technique for the diagnosis of inducible ischemia is unknown . at rest , patients with dilated and hypertrophic cardiomyopathies often have an elevated phosphodiester resonance , possibly signifying abnormal breakdown of membrane phospholipids . increasing oxygen demand in these patients does not usually alter high-energy phosphates , suggesting that oxidative energy metabolism is preserved under these conditions . nmr spectroscopy is a powerful tool to increase understanding of metabolic changes in a variety of pathologic conditions . 
positron emission tomography and interventional cardiology . current noninvasive diagnostic techniques have limited accuracy for detection of coronary artery disease ( cad ) in symptomatic and ( particularly ) asymptomatic patients with silent disease . furthermore , no standard noninvasive method provides reliable diagnostic information on the location of the coronary arteries involved , the severity of stenosis , the presence of collaterals and myocardial viability . based on greater than 1,000 cardiac studies at the university of texas , cardiac positron emission tomography ( pet ) with either generator-produced rubidium-82 , cyclotron-produced n-13 ammonia , or f-18 deoxyglucose is suitable for 4 routine diagnostic purposes : ( 1 ) noninvasive diagnosis of cad in either symptomatic or asymptomatic subjects with a sensitivity of 95 to 98 % and specificity of 95 to 100 % . this accuracy is now sufficient to schedule diagnostic catheterization and multivessel angioplasty with surgical backup on the basis of the pet scan . at the university of texas we carry out pet in asymptomatic and symptomatic patients to direct those with mild disease to cholesterol-lowering reversal therapy and those with severe disease to percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) ; ( 2 ) assessment of physiologic severity of coronary artery stenosis as compared to automated quantitative coronary arteriographic analysis . changes in stenosis severity are followed before and after interventions including ptca , bypass surgery , vasodilator drugs and cholesterol control regimens for reversal of coronary atherosclerosis ; ( 3 ) imaging myocardial infarction , ischemia , viability , zone at risk and sizing of these pathophysiologic processes . 
role of magnetic resonance contrast agents in cardiac imaging . improvements in magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) technology allow adequate spatial and temporal resolution to capture cardiac anatomy and contractile function in exceptional detail and with little risk . however , tissue characterization of the pathophysiologic state of the myocardium may require special indicators or mr contrast agents . these must be tailored for detection by the mri process , but available agents are effective at low dose and provide a wide range of indicator properties ( e.g. , myocardial extracellular space , blood pool , capillary permeability and membrane transport ) . each agent has a dynamic washin and washout time-intensity curve that may reflect myocardial perfusion or consequences of ischemia . the combined use of mri and mr contrast agents may provide a single diagnostic examination that fully and quantitatively assesses all indexes of cardiac performance . such information would be both global and regional , and would be well tolerated by patients . the cost , value and cost-effectiveness of such studies remain speculative . 
beta blockers and the primary prevention of nonfatal myocardial infarction in patients with high blood pressure . a population-based , case-control study was conducted to determine whether beta blockers , used for the treatment of high blood pressure , prevent first events of coronary heart disease . all study subjects were health-maintenance organization enrollees with pharmacologically treated hypertension . patients presented in 1982 to 1984 with new coronary heart disease , and control subjects were a probability sample of eligible hypertensive enrollees free of coronary heart disease . with the investigators blind to case-control status , the subjects ' medical records were reviewed for other coronary risk factors , and the health-maintenance organization 's computerized pharmacy database was used to ascertain the use of beta blockers . a larger proportion of controls than cases were using beta blockers . this difference was confined to the subgroup with nonfatal myocardial infarctions . for current use , the estimated relative risk for nonfatal myocardial infarction was 0.62 ( 95 % confidence interval , 0.39 to 0.99 ) . among current users of beta blockers , higher doses conferred greater protection . past use and total lifetime intake of beta blockers were only weakly associated with case-control status . the current use of beta blockers may prevent first events of nonfatal myocardial infarction in patients with high blood pressure . 
epidemiologic studies demonstrating increased morning incidence of sudden cardiac death . to determine if sudden cardiac death shows a circadian variation , the mortality records of the massachusetts population and the framingham heart study were analyzed . the massachusetts mortality data analysis revealed an increased morning incidence for out-of-hospital cardiac deaths similar to that previously described for nonfatal myocardial infarction . the records of the framingham heart study allowed more comprehensive analysis of the time of sudden cardiac death . in this study , a prominent circadian variation was also identified in which frequency of sudden cardiac death increased sharply between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m. ; distribution was fairly even throughout the rest of the day . this circadian pattern may be explained in part by physiologic changes that increase the likelihood of ventricular fibrillation or increase the risk of thrombosis in the morning hours . the possible role of the morning increase in physical and mental activity as a trigger of sudden cardiac death requires further investigation . 
timing and triggers of transient myocardial ischemia . use of exercise tolerance testing and new techniques of ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring to more objectively measure myocardial ischemia have enabled clinicians to better recognize the magnitude , timing and variable characteristics of transient ischemic events . these commonly occurring events in patients with coronary artery disease have a diurnal pattern strikingly similar to that reported for catastrophic cardiovascular events such as myocardial infarction , sudden cardiac death and stroke . whether those factors that contribute to reversible ischemic events are similar to those causing infarction and sudden death has not been resolved . however , the parallel increase in morning activity for these related phenomena suggests that a better understanding of the triggers of reversible myocardial ischemia may help improve understanding of the causes of myocardial infarction and sudden cardiac death . 
application of time series analysis to circadian rhythms : effect of beta-adrenergic blockade upon heart rate and transient myocardial ischemia . circadian variations of transient myocardial ischemia and heart rate have been identified , but the rhythms and their response to beta blockade have not been fully characterized . time-series analysis , a mathematical technique to describe oscillatory activity occurring within a continuous data set was used , to address these issues . nine men with coronary artery disease underwent 72 hours of ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring during therapy with placebo or metoprolol . during administration of placebo , ischemic time and heart rate showed a primary peak with a periodicity of approximately 24 hours with a tight coupling between the 2 variables and a secondary peak with a periodicity of 5 to 8 hours . during metoprolol therapy , heart rate and ischemic variation were reduced and the 24-hour periodicity for heart rate only remained . the 24-hour periodicity for ischemia was eliminated , but the data with 5 - to 8-hour periodicity became the major component of the signal . 
transient myocardial ischemia and its relation to determinants of myocardial oxygen demand . because of conflicting data and a clear need to establish the relative role of increase in myocardial oxygen demand versus reduction in coronary blood flow in the causation of transient ischemia , the role of heart rate and blood pressure changes immediately preceding and during the transient ischemic events observed during daily life were evaluated in 25 patients with coronary artery disease . elevations in heart rate before onset of ischemia were observed in 61 % of the episodes . similarly , 73 % of the ischemic events were preceded by an increase in arterial pressure . these data provide evidence for a significant role of increased myocardial oxygen demand in the genesis of transient myocardial ischemia . 
mental stress as an acute trigger of ischemic left ventricular dysfunction and blood pressure elevation in coronary artery disease . acute mental stress may be a frequent trigger of transient myocardial ischemia , myocardial infarction and sudden cardiac death . in an experimental setting , the effect of mental stress on hemodynamics and left ventricular wall motion abnormalities ( as detected by radionuclide ventriculography ) was measured in 29 patients with exercise-induced myocardial ischemia . seventy-five percent of the patients demonstrated mental stress-induced wall motion abnormalities . patients frequently exhibited greater increases in peak systolic arterial pressure during mental stress than during exercise . personally relevant mental stress is the most potent type of mental stress , both in terms of frequency and magnitude of ischemia . most mental stress-induced ischemic episodes are clinically and electrocardiographically silent and occur at heart rates significantly lower than those seen during exercise . both systolic and diastolic blood pressure increased during mental stress-induced ischemia , suggesting that increased myocardial oxygen demand plays a role in the pathophysiology of mental stress-induced transient ischemia . the significant magnitude and acute onset of this mental stress-induced blood pressure elevation may in some manner contribute to atherosclerotic plaque rupture . these findings may provide a pathophysiologic link to the epidemiologic association between mental stress and acute ischemic coronary events . a new ambulatory radionuclide detector that can concurrently monitor left ventricular ejection fraction and electrocardiographic st-segment change may enhance the detection and evaluation of transient myocardial ischemia in ambulatory coronary patients . 
triggers of transient myocardial ischemia : circadian variation and relation to plaque rupture and coronary thrombosis in stable coronary artery disease . the phenomenon of transient myocardial ischemia is common in patients with stable coronary disease and appears to be due both to increases in myocardial demand and to episodic coronary vasoconstriction . the circadian variation of transient ischemic episodes closely parallels the circadian variation of acute coronary syndromes associated with plaque rupture , such as myocardial infarction and sudden death . these concordant temporal patterns of transient ischemia , myocardial infarction and sudden cardiac death probably represent independent manifestations stemming from the consequences of increased sympathetic activity . 
cause of thrombosis in human atherosclerotic arteries . although it has been known for a long time that thrombosis nearly always develops in atherosclerotic arteries -- and almost never in normal vessels -- the mechanism through which atherosclerosis promotes thrombosis was unknown until this problem was explored through histologic examination of complete serial section sets of thrombosed atherosclerotic arteries . these studies , repeatedly confirmed , revealed that the thrombi are triggered by microscopic cracks in the collagen cap of advanced plaques . blood most often seeps from the arterial lumen through the cracks into the underlying lipid gruel before the breaks or cracks are plugged by the thrombi ( which function as hemostatic seals of the breaks ) . these results are parallel to results of experimental studies in which the synergism of endotheliotoxic and pressor agents produced thrombi over cap breaks and sub-break hemorrhages only in arteries with advanced collagen-rich plaques , not in arteries with early atherosclerosis or in normal vessels . this finding indicates that advanced atherosclerosis makes the arterial wall much more fragile and that , once broken , this wall exposes the blood to powerful thrombogenic materials that do not exist in normal arterial tissue . at present , human and experimental evidence suggest that the thrombogenic fissures of advanced plaque caps can be promoted by several factors , such as a surge in intraarterial pressure or insults that damage the caps structurally and increase their vulnerability to any type of stress such as certain metabolic , exogenous chemical and immune insults , spontaneous molecular changes of collagen with time and hemorrhages of capillaries that invade advanced plaques from the adventitia or the arterial lumen . 
rupture of coronary vasa vasorum as a trigger of acute myocardial infarction . some controversy has always existed regarding the presence and extent of the vasa vasorum -- the nutrient vessels in the wall of the human aorta -- in the coronary arteries . now , cinemicrographic studies using silicone polymer injections in cleared human hearts have identified the vasa vasorum of coronary arteries , revealing evidence of neovascularization in the region of atherosclerotic plaques . these studies suggest an important role for the vasa vasorum in the pathogenesis of coronary atherosclerosis and its sequelae , especially intramural hemorrhage and vascular spasm . the wall of the human coronary artery in regions of atherosclerotic injury may be particularly rich in capillary vessels of the vasa vasorum . from this , the evidence suggests that with the morning increase in blood pressure , fragile neovascular structures of the vasa vasorum may be more prone to rupture and may be responsible , in part , for the circadian variation in myocardial infarction . 
angiographic assessment of the culprit coronary artery lesion before acute myocardial infarction . serial angiographic studies of patients with myocardial infarction and unstable angina suggest that the culprit plaque underlying a thrombus need not have produced severe luminal obstruction before onset of the event . an atherosclerotic coronary artery lesion can , therefore , have 2 important characteristics . first , it may be obstructive . second , it may be " vulnerable " in that it has the potential to become thrombogenic if exposed to the appropriate triggering stimulus . a lesion need not be obstructive to become thrombogenic , nor do all obstructive lesions have thrombogenic potential . the cause of an infarction may thus be rupture of a nonobstructive plaque leading to occlusive thrombus formation . because it may be difficult to predict the site of a subsequent occlusion from a coronary angiogram , coronary bypass surgery or angioplasty directed only at discernible stenotic lesions may not be effective for preventing subsequent myocardial infarctions . appropriate therapy may need to be directed at the entire coronary tree . such therapy might include cholesterol lowering , beta blockade and aspirin . 
potential usefulness of combined thromboxane a2 and serotonin receptor blockade for preventing the conversion from chronic to acute coronary artery disease syndromes . evidence suggests that unstable angina , non-q-wave myocardial infarction and q-wave myocardial infarcts represent a continuum , such that transient reduction in coronary blood flow associated with platelet aggregation and dynamic vasoconstriction at sites of coronary artery stenosis and endothelial injury lead to abrupt development of unstable angina . factors potentially responsible for the conversion from chronic to acute coronary artery disease include endothelial injury at sites of stenosis . the endothelial injury may be the result of plaque fissuring or ulceration , hemodynamic factors ( including systemic arterial hypertension or flow shear stress ) , infection , smoking , coronary arteriography or balloon angioplasty . clinical and experimental animal studies suggest that interference with thromboxane and serotonin contributions to platelet aggregation and dynamic coronary artery constriction may prevent chronic coronary artery disease syndromes from converting to acute disease . to protect against this process may require both thromboxane and serotonin receptor antagonists or a combination of thromboxane synthesis inhibitor and receptor antagonist with a serotonin receptor antagonist . further studies are needed to test this hypothesis . 
propranolol and the morning increase in sudden cardiac death : ( the beta-blocker heart attack trial experience ) . to provide insight into the protective effect of propranolol on mortality after myocardial infarction observed in the beta-blocker heart attack trial , the time of occurrence of sudden cardiac death was examined in this population . between 5 a.m. and 11 a.m. , 25 of the 56 total deaths ( 38 % ) occurred in the placebo patients compared with 11 of 45 ( 24 % ) in the propranolol patients . excluding this period , there were nearly equal numbers of sudden cardiac deaths in the propranolol and placebo groups . this retrospective analysis suggests that beta blockade is protective during the morning hours when a surge of sympathetic activity may increase the risk of sudden cardiac death . 
beta-blocker duration of action and implications for therapy . two studies were conducted to measure the effect of serum half-life on beta-blocker-related heart rate reduction throughout the 24-hour period . in the first study , nadolol , atenolol and pindolol were associated with significant ( p less than 0.01 ) heart rate reduction even at 24 hours after dose . nadolol , with a plasma half-life of 15.5 hours , had the most pronounced heart rate-lowering effect 24 hours after the daily dose compared to pindolol , which had a half-life of 5.5 hours . in a randomized , double-blind , crossover study , nadolol and atenolol had similar effects 3 to 4 hours after the daily dose . nadolol , however , produced greater suppression of heart rate and double product ( blood pressure x heart rate ) than atenolol ( compared to placebo ) 24 hours after ingestion of the daily dose . on ambulatory electrocardiography 24 hours after medication administration , 80 to 100 % of the heart rate-attenuating effect of nadolol was maintained versus only 20 to 45 % of atenolol 's effect . statistically significant ( p less than 0.05 ) reductions in heart rate were produced by nadolol , but not by atenolol , between 4 and 5 a.m. , 6 and 7 a.m. , 8 and 9 a.m. and 9 and 10 a.m. furthermore , nadolol remained at 52 % of peak blood level at 24 hours , whereas atenolol was at 20 % . the data from these 2 studies indicate that significant differences in duration of action exist between beta blockers . 
effect of beta-adrenergic blocking agents on the circadian occurrence of ischemic cardiovascular events . clinical observations suggest that beta-adrenergic blocking agents can modify the circadian occurrence of a variety of ischemic events . morning awakening is associated with a rapid increase in blood pressure and pulse , serum catecholamine content and platelet activation , at a time of decreased blood thrombolytic activity . beta-adrenergic blocking agents have the potential to modify many of these events . current data indicate that these agents modify blood pressure and pulse , but do not prevent their early morning increase . in addition , beta-adrenergic blocking agents decrease ventricular ectopy and its circadian variation . recent studies in humans indicate , however , that metoprolol does not affect the circadian increase in platelet activity or serum catecholamines . the specific mechanism by which beta blockers affect the circadian occurrence of ischemic events remains uncertain . 
reduction of mortality , sudden death and non-fatal reinfarction with beta-adrenergic blockers in survivors of acute myocardial infarction : a new hypothesis regarding the cardioprotective action of beta-adrenergic blockade . beta-adrenergic blockers have been shown definitely to reduce the incidence of total mortality , cardiovascular mortality , sudden death and nonfatal reinfarction in survivors of an acute myocardial infarction . the mechanisms to explain this protective action of beta blockers have never been elucidated conclusively , and include the antiarrhythmic and myocardial oxygen demand-reducing effects of the drugs . an antithrombotic mechanism has also been suggested . however , beta blockers have relatively weak antiplatelet activity , suggesting that their antithrombotic effects may be related to prevention of coronary artery plaque rupture and the subsequent propagation of an occlusive arterial thrombus rather than direct anticoagulant action . the therapeutic ability of beta blockers to attenuate the hemodynamic consequences of catecholamine surges , may protect a vulnerable atherosclerotic plaque from fracture , thereby reducing risk of coronary thrombosis , myocardial infarction and death . 
subgroups of patients with atypical circadian patterns of symptom onset in acute myocardial infarction . circadian variation of onset of acute myocardial infarction has been noted in many studies and may carry important implications . however , only a few previous studies have attempted subgroup analysis . in 4,796 patients with documented acute myocardial infarction , the time of symptom onset was recorded . as in other studies , a peak occurred in the morning hours from 6 a.m. to noon with 28 % of the population ( 1.16 times the average percent for the other time periods ) experiencing symptom onset in that period ( p less than 0.001 ) . there was a second lower peak ( 25 % ) in the evening hours between 6:01 p.m. and midnight , also observed in some previous studies . whether the presence of subgroups with specific clinical characteristics would exhibit different patterns and thereby contribute to these peaks in the overall population was then determined . in patients with a history of congestive heart failure ( n = 606 ) or with non-q-wave infarction ( n = 832 ) , a pronounced peak ( 29 % ) occurred only in the evening hours . in patients greater than 70 years of age ( n = 1,422 ) , smokers ( n = 2,057 ) , diabetics ( n = 767 ) , women ( n = 1,213 ) and patients taking beta blocking drugs ( n = 847 ) , 2 nearly equal peaks were observed . finally , in patients with previous myocardial infarction ( n = 1,104 ) , no peaks were observed . in a subgroup of patients ( n = 1,084 ) free from the most important modifying factors , there was a single very pronounced late morning peak ( 32 % ) , 1.39 times the average percent for the other time periods ( p less than 0.001 ) , without evidence of a second evening peak . 
exercise test predictors of ambulatory silent ischemia during daily life in stable angina pectoris . the predictive value of several exercise test parameters in identifying stable angina patients at risk of silent myocardial ischemia during daily life were examined . a total of 97 patients with coronary artery disease , stable angina and ambulatory electrocardiographic data were evaluated . of the 86 patients with a positive exercise test , 39 ( group 1 ) had greater than or equal to 1 episodes of st-segment depression and 47 ( group 2 ) did not develop st changes during ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring . comparison of the exercise test parameters between the 2 groups revealed early onset of ischemia during exercise tests as the single most significant ( p less than 0.0005 ) predictor of ambulatory silent ischemia . the other exercise test parameters showing significant differences between the 2 groups were the peak exercise heart rate ( 117 + / - 23 vs 126 + / - 20 beats/min , p less than 0.05 ) and peak systolic blood pressure ( 160 + / - 27 vs 176 + / - 27 mm hg , p less than 0.01 ) , both of which were significantly lower in the group 1 patients . these data were used to derive simple mathematical formulas for calculating the risk of ambulatory silent ischemia . these results demonstrate that stable angina patients at risk of silent ischemia during daily life can be accurately identified by evaluation of selected exercise test parameters . 
effects of theophylline , atenolol and their combination on myocardial ischemia in stable angina pectoris . the effects of theophylline ( 400 mg twice a day ) , atenolol ( 50 mg twice a day ) and their combination on myocardial ischemia were studied in 9 patients with stable angina pectoris in a randomized , single-blind , triple crossover trial . placebo was administered to the patients during the run-in and the run-off periods . a treadmill exercise test and 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring were obtained at the end of each treatment period . compared with placebo , theophylline significantly improved the time to onset of myocardial ischemia ( 1 mm of st-segment depression ) from 7.8 + / - 3.7 to 9.5 + / - 3.7 minutes ( p less than 0.03 ) and the exercise duration from 9 + / - 3.4 to 10.1 + / - 3.5 minutes ( p less than 0.04 ) . during atenolol and during combination treatment , the time to the onset of ischemia and the exercise duration were similar ( 10.8 + / - 4.2 and 11.2 + / - 3.2 minutes , 11.2 + / - 3.6 and 11.5 + / - 3.2 minutes , respectively ) and longer than during theophylline administration ( p less than 0.05 ) . ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring showed that , during theophylline administration , the heart rate was higher than during placebo throughout the 24 hours ( p less than 0.05 ) . during atenolol and during combination treatment the heart rate was similar and in both cases lower than during placebo ( p less than 0.05 ) . compared with placebo , theophylline decreased the total ischemic time from 97 + / - 110 to 70 + / - 103 minutes ( p less than 0.05 ) . 
transient left ventricular cavitary dilation during dipyridamole-thallium imaging as an indicator of severe coronary artery disease . transient left ventricular ( lv ) cavitary dilation during dipyridamole-thallium imaging was reported in 45 of 510 ( 9 % ) consecutive patients referred for dipyridamole-thallium imaging . clinical and hemodynamic effects observed during dipyridamole infusion were not predictive of transient cavitary dilation on the thallium images . coronary angiography was performed in 32 of the 45 patients : 75 % had either left main , 3-vessel or " high-risk " 2-vessel coronary artery disease . although 25 of 45 patients ( 56 % ) with transient cavitary dilation were either asymptomatic or had only grade 1/4 effort angina , 16 of 25 patients ( 64 % ) not referred for coronary revascularization sustained a cardiac event during a mean follow-up of 12 months . most events were cardiac deaths ( 75 % ) and 87 % of events occurred within 4 months of the test . noncardiac surgery was performed in 187 of the 510 patients . the postoperative cardiac event rate was 2 % in the 101 patients with normal scans or fixed defects , 19 % in 75 patients with reversible perfusion defects and 58 % in 12 patients with reversible cavitary dilation ( p less than 0.0001 ) . thus , transient lv dilation during dipyridamole-thallium imaging is a marker of severe underlying coronary artery disease , denotes a poor prognosis and predicts a high risk of postoperative cardiac complications in patients who undergo noncardiac surgery . 
effects of two types of fish oil supplements on serum lipids and plasma phospholipid fatty acids in coronary artery disease . fish oil has consistently been shown to lower triglyceride levels , but its effects on low-density lipoprotein ( ldl ) cholesterol remain controversial . the current study compares the long-term effects of 2 different fish oil preparations ( ethyl ester and triglyceride ) versus olive oil in patients with coronary artery disease . eighty-nine subjects were randomly assigned to receive capsules containing 6 g/day ( triglyceride group ) or 7 g/day ( ethyl ester group ) of n-3 fatty acids , or capsules containing 12 g/day of olive oil for 6 months . mean triglyceride levels decreased by 28 % in the ester and 32 % in the triglyceride fish oil groups ( p less than 0.05 for both ) . ldl cholesterol levels increased by 3 % ( difference not significant ) in the ester and 12 % ( p less than 0.05 ) in the triglyceride fish oil groups ; in hypertriglyceridemic subjects the increase was 23 % ( p less than 0.01 ) and 14 % ( difference not significant ) , respectively . plasma phospholipid fatty acid analysis showed a fivefold increase in eicosapentaenoic acid levels in both fish oil groups ( p less than 0.001 ) , and a long-term decrease in arachidonic acid levels ( p less than 0.001 ) . achieved eicosapentaenoic acid level correlated with the degree of increase in ldl cholesterol ( r = 0.38 , p less than 0.05 ) . these data suggest that fish oil administration is associated with an increase in ldl cholesterol levels in a diverse group of patients with coronary artery disease ; this change appears to be correlated with n-3 fatty acid absorption . the impact of this increase in ldl is unknown , but should be considered as potentially adverse . 
predictive value of lipoprotein ( a ) and other serum lipoproteins in the angiographic diagnosis of coronary artery disease . to determine the relation among lipids in predicting coronary artery disease ( cad ) , 213 patients undergoing diagnostic angiography for suspected cad were prospectively studied . twenty-one patients had normal coronary arteries and 192 had cad in 1 to 3 arteries at arteriography with measurements obtained with digital calipers . lipoproteins were measured and lipoprotein ( a ) [ lp ( a ) ] was also assayed in a subset of 98 patients with cad . statistical analysis was performed using uni - and multivariate techniques to test the association among age , gender , systemic hypertension , diabetes mellitus , cigarette smoking , family history , total cholesterol , triglycerides , high-density lipoprotein ( hdl ) cholesterol , low-density lipoprotein ( ldl ) cholesterol , very low density lipoprotein cholesterol , apolipoproteins ( apo ) a-i and apo b , ratio of apo a-i to apo b , and ratio of hdl cholesterol to total cholesterol , to lp ( a ) and to cad . all factors except gender , systemic hypertension , diabetes mellitus and cigarette smoking were univariate predictors of cad . multivariate predictors were , in decreasing order of significance , family history , age , hdl/total cholesterol ratio and apo b. when lp ( a ) was included , multivariate predictors were age , family history , apo b and lp ( a ) , in that order . lipid parameters alone showed that the hdl/total cholesterol ratio and that lp ( a ) provide the best predictive tests for the detection of cad in this referral population and may ultimately become important screening tests for cad . 
voltage criteria of left ventricular hypertrophy in sudden and nonsudden coronary artery disease mortality : the italian section of the seven countries study . it is unclear whether sudden or nonsudden death can be predicted independently from other risk factors for coronary artery disease ( cad ) . therefore , this investigation was undertaken to measure 12-lead qrs voltage sum , a recently proposed ( am j cardiol 1985 ; 55:485 -494 ) index of left ventricular ( lv ) hypertrophy , and its ability to predict either subsequent sudden ( less than 2 hours ) or nonsudden cad death during 20 to 23 years of follow-up in 1,588 middle aged men ( 40 to 61 years old ) from 2 cohorts of the italian section of the seven countries study who were free of demonstrable cad ( at entry examination in 1962 ) . the sokolow-lyon and the modified sokolow-lyon indexes , 2 standard electrocardiographic methods to detect lv hypertrophy were also measured and compared . during follow-up , 67 patients died suddenly and 87 died a nonsudden cad death . in the cox proportional-hazards model , age , mean blood pressure , heart rate , body mass index , cholesterol , physical activity , smoking habit , st-t alterations ( minnesota codes 4.1 to 4.3 together with 5.1 to 5.3 ) and the 3 electrocardiographic indexes , all measured at the time of enrollment into the study , were included . the 12-lead qrs voltage sum retained significant and independent relation to sudden death ( t = 2.00 ) ; sokolow-lyon index entered the cox solution for nonsudden cad death but the association was inverse ( t = -2.10 ) . st-t alterations were significantly associated only with nonsudden cad death ( t = 2.19 ) . thus , in addition to several known risk factors , measurement of 12-lead qrs voltage sum in middle-aged men without clinical evidence of heart disease may help identify subjects at an increased risk of sudden death ; nonsudden cad death is predicted by sokolow-lyon index and by st-t alterations . the usefulness of these indexes needs to be tested in different populations . 
videodensitometry versus digital calipers for quantitative coronary angiography . single-plane left coronary angiograms in 18 patients were prospectively analyzed using videodensitometry ( xr-70 system ) and handheld digital calipers to compare arterial dimensions , stenosis dimensions , intraobserver variability and interobserver variability for the methods . a total of 648 arterial segments were measured , yielding a highly significant correlation between videodensitometry and caliper-determined cross-sectional area ( r = 0.96 , p = 0.0001 ) . similarly , a highly significant linear relation was observed between videodensitometry and caliper-determined diameter ( r = 0.95 , p = 0.0001 ) . when data subsets for small , medium and large arterial segments were examined , higher variability in the correlation between videodensitometry and caliper-determined area was observed in the large segments ( greater than 10 mm2 ) . in addition , caliper-estimated areas tended to be slightly smaller than videodensitometry-estimated areas in these segments . for diameter estimations , correlations between caliper and videodensitometry data were similar for the entire range of arterial segment sizes . intra - and interobserver variability was low for both caliper and videodensitometry determination of diameter or area . thus , over a wide range of arterial dimensions , results obtained with caliper estimates of luminal area and diameter are comparable to those obtained with videodensitometry using the xr-70 system . 
frequency of myocardial indium-111 antimyosin uptake after uncomplicated coronary artery bypass grafting . the reported incidence of myocardial damage after coronary artery bypass grafting ( cabg ) is highly related to the methods used . since indium-111 monoclonal antimyosin antibody scintigraphy has been shown to be highly specific and sensitive for myocardial necrosis , even in small lesions , uptake of this radiotracer was evaluated after cabg . in 23 consecutive patients without previous myocardial infarction who underwent cabg for stable angina , 80 mbq indium-111 antimyosin was injected on the third postoperative day . planar images were obtained 48 hours later and analyzed for myocardial uptake of indium-111 antimyosin . scintigraphic results were related to creatine kinase mb levels , duration of both aortic cross-clamping and cardiopulmonary bypass , and electrocardiographic changes . in all patients surgical procedure and postoperative course was uncomplicated . indium-111 antimyosin uptake was present in 19 of 23 patients ( 82 % ) . it was diffused in 7 patients and localized in 12 . no pathologic q waves occurred postoperatively . fourteen patients exhibited st-segment changes . no good relation was found among indium-111 antimyosin uptake and creatine kinase mb levels , duration of cross-clamping or bypass , and st-t changes . it is concluded that some degree of myocardial damage , though silent , is common after cabg . 
time course and prognostic significance of serial signal-averaged electrocardiograms after a first acute myocardial infarction . the prognostic significance of serial signal-averaged electrocardiograms recorded during the first 3 days ( period 1 ) , in the second week ( period 2 ) after a first acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) and 6 months later ( period 3 ) was prospectively assessed in 190 patients . no patients were treated with thrombolytic therapy . patients with conduction disturbances were excluded . mean age of the 190 patients was 57 years ( range 34 to 74 ) and mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 40 + 6 % ( range 12 to 70 ) . eighty-four patients had an anterior wall ami and the remaining 106 patients an inferior wall ami . after a mean follow-up of 24 months , 16 patients developed sustained symptomatic monomorphic ventricular tachycardia , 7 patients were resuscitated from an episode of ventricular fibrillation , and 10 patients died suddenly . multivariate regression analysis using continuous variables showed that the strongest predictor of sustained ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation was the left ventricular ejection fraction ( p less than 0.0001 ) followed by the duration of qrs complex on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram recorded during the first 3 days of ami ( p less than 0.0005 ) . sudden death was only predicted by left ventricular ejection fraction ( p less than 0.02 ) . 
prognostic value of predischarge low-level exercise thallium testing after thrombolytic treatment of acute myocardial infarction . low-level exercise thallium testing is useful in identifying the high-risk patient after acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) . to determine whether this use also applies to patients after thrombolytic treatment of ami , 64 patients who underwent early thrombolytic therapy for ami and 107 patients without acute intervention were evaluated . the ability of both the electrocardiogram and thallium tests to predict future events was compared in both groups . after a mean follow-up of 374 days , there were 25 and 32 % of cardiac events in the 2 groups , respectively , with versus without acute intervention . these included death , another ami , coronary artery bypass grafting or angioplasty with 75 % of the events occurring in the 3 months after the first infarction . the only significant predictors of outcome were left ventricular cavity dilatation in the intervention group and st-segment depression and increased lung uptake in the nonintervention group . the sensitivity of exercise thallium was 55 % in the intervention group and 81 % in the nonintervention group ( p less than 0.05 ) . therefore , in patients having thrombolytic therapy for ami , nearly half the events after discharge are not predicted by predischarge low-level exercise thallium testing . the relatively weak correlation of outcome with unmasking ischemia in the laboratory before discharge may be due to an unstable coronary lesion or rapid progression of disease after the test . tests considered useful for prognostication after ami may not necessarily have a similar value if there has been an acute intervention , such as thrombolytic therapy . 
prognosis of acute myocardial infarction complicated by primary ventricular fibrillation . principal investigators of the sprint study . in 5,839 consecutive patients with acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) , hospitalized between july 1981 and july 1983 in 14 coronary care units in israel , the incidence of primary ventricular fibrillation ( vf ) was 2.1 % . patients with primary vf resembled counterparts without vf in terms of age , gender , frequency of previous ami and past cigarette smoking habits . the hospital course of patients with primary vf revealed increased incidence of primary atrial fibrillation and atrioventricular block . increased serum levels of glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase and lactic dehydrogenase were noted among the patients with primary vf . in-hospital mortality rate was 18.8 % in 122 patients with primary vf compared with 8.5 % in 3,707 patients forming the reference group ( p less than 0.01 ) . adjustment by age using logistic function yielded an estimate of 2.86 for relative mortality odds associated with primary vf , and further adjustment by gender , history of ami , systemic hypertension , and by enzymatically estimated infarct size slightly reduced the estimated odds , at 2.52 ( 95 % confidence interval , 1.42 to 4.46 ) . prognosis after discharge from the hospital was independent of primary vf . in conclusion , primary vf exerts an independent , significant effect on in-hospital mortality . 
usefulness of labetalol in chronic atrial fibrillation . beta-adrenergic blocking agents are useful in controlling excessive ventricular rate in chronic atrial fibrillation ( af ) but often reduce exercise capacity . to investigate the advantage of labetalol -- a unique beta blocker with alpha-blocking property -- in chronic af , 10 patients without underlying structural heart disease were studied with treadmill test , 12-minute walk and 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring . patients were randomized and crossed over to receive 4 phases of treatment ( placebo , digoxin , digoxin with half-dose labetalol , and full-dose labetalol ) . exercise durations were 14.1 + / - 1.5 , 14.2 + / - 1.5 , 16.1 + / - 1.1 and 15.6 + / - 1.1 minutes , respectively , indicating that labetalol did not reduce exercise tolerance . although digoxin had no advantage over placebo in controlling maximal heart rate ( 177 + / - 2 vs 175 + / - 3 beats/min ) , labetalol , both as monotherapy or as an adjunct to digoxin , was advantageous ( 156 + / - 4 vs 177 + / - 2 beats/min , p less than 0.01 , and 154 + / - 4 vs 177 + / - 2 beats/min , p less than 0.01 , respectively ) . the rate-pressure product was consistently lowered by labetalol at rest and during exercise . at peak exercise , the addition of labetalol to digoxin reduced the maximal rate-pressure product achieved from 30,900 + / - 1300 to 24,100 + / - 2,000 mm hg/min ( p less than 0.01 ) and the maximal rate-pressure product was lowest with full-dose labetalol ( 22,300 + / - 1,600 mm hg/min ) . during submaximal exercise on treadmill or during the 12-minute walk , the combination of labetalol and digoxin produced the best heart rate control , whereas labetalol monotherapy was comparable to digoxin therapy . 
long-term effect of mexiletine on left ventricular function and relation to suppression of ventricular arrhythmia . the effects of oral mexiletine on left ventricular ( lv ) ejection fraction ( ef ) and ventricular arrhythmias -- and a possible relation between these effects -- were evaluated during 3 months of therapy in 29 patients with chronic ventricular premature complexes ( vpcs ) and a moderately reduced to normal lvef by 24-hour holter monitoring and by radionuclide ventriculography at rest and during maximum tolerable exercise testing . after an average titration period of 13 days , a mean daily mexiletine dose of 739 mg was maintained throughout the treatment . at the end of titration and after 3 months of treatment , patients with a baseline lvef less than or equal to 40 % ( group 2 ) responded with a median reduction of the hourly vpc rate by 90 and 81 % , respectively , compared with 79 and 72 % in those with a baseline lvef greater than 40 % ( group 1 ) . couplets and runs of ventricular tachycardia were almost completely suppressed in nearly all patients . a single patient had a proarrhythmic increase in vpcs during treatment . compared with baseline , there were no significant changes in resting or exercise lvef after 1 or 3 months of treatment in either of the 2 groups of patients . no correlation was found between treatment-induced changes in arrhythmia frequency and in resting ef . no symptoms of congestive heart failure developed . the study confirms that long-term use of mexiletine is efficacious and relatively free of cardiac depressant effects even in patients with diminished lv function . 
effectiveness of the once-daily calcium antagonist , lacidipine , in controlling 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure . the efficacy of the new once-daily dihydropyridine calcium antagonist , lacidipine , in reducing ambulatory intraarterial blood pressure ( bp ) was examined in 12 untreated hypertensive patients . the intraarterial recording was commenced 24 hours before the first 4-mg dose and was continued for a further 24 hours thereafter . after dose titration and chronic therapy , a second 24-hour ambulatory bp recording was made . there was a steady onset of drug action , maximal at 2 hours , but with reflex tachycardia after the first dose . chronic administration reduced bp throughout the 24-hour period , without tachycardia . mean daytime reduction in bp was 20 mm hg systolic ( p less than 0.005 ) and 12 mm hg diastolic ( p less than 0.02 ) . mean nighttime reduction was 8-mm hg systolic ( p less than 0.05 ) and 6-mm hg diastolic ( difference not significant ) . there was no postural decrease in bp on 60 degrees head-up tilting and hypotensive action was maintained during isometric exercise ( reduction at peak of 32/18 mm hg , p less than 0.05 ) and throughout dynamic exercise ( reduction at peak of 23/14 mm hg , p less than 0.05 ) . lacidipine is an effective once-daily antihypertensive agent , with good control of stress response . 
atenolol therapy for exercise-induced hypertension after aortic coarctation repair . after successful repair of coarctation of the aorta in childhood , exercise-induced upper body systolic hypertension is well documented . beta blockade has been shown to reduce the arm/leg gradient in untreated coarctation of the aorta ; treatment before coarctation repair has decreased paradoxical hypertension after repair . ten patients with successful surgical repair of coarctation , defined as a resting arm/leg gradient of less than or equal to 18 mm hg , were evaluated by treadmill exercise before and after beta blockade with atenolol . mean age was 5.5 years at repair and 18 at study . at baseline evaluation , systolic blood pressures at termination of exercise ranged from 201 to 270 mm hg ( mean 229 mm hg ) . arm/leg gradients at exercise termination ranged from 30 to 143 mm hg ( mean 84 ) . follow-up treadmill exercise studies were performed after beta blockade . upper extremity systolic pressures at exercise termination were normalized in 9 of 10 patients . maximal systolic blood pressure recorded at exercise termination ranged from 163 to 223 mm hg ( mean 196 mm hg , p less than or equal to 0.005 ) . arm/leg gradient at termination of exercise also decreased significantly to a mean of 51 mm hg ( p less than 0.05 ) . no patient had symptoms on atenolol and exercise endurance times were unchanged . the study results in this small series suggest that cardioselective beta blockade can be used to treat exercise-induced upper body hypertension effectively after surgical repair of coarctation . because a high incidence of premature cardiovascular disease has been well documented after satisfactory surgical repair , the findings are of importance for this group of postoperative patients . 
risk of cardiovascular mortality in alcohol drinkers , ex-drinkers and nondrinkers . lower cardiovascular mortality rates in lighter drinkers ( versus abstainers or heavier drinkers ) in population studies have been substantially due to lower coronary artery disease ( cad ) mortality . controversy about this u-shaped curve focuses on whether alcohol protects against cad or , because of other traits , whether abstainers are at increased risk . inclusion of ex-drinkers among abstainers in some studies has led to speculation that this might be the trait increasing the risk of abstainers . this new prospective study among 123,840 persons with 1,002 cardiovascular ( 600 cad ) deaths showed that ex-drinkers had higher cardiovascular and cad mortality risks than lifelong abstainers in unadjusted analyses , but not in analyses adjusted for age , gender , race , body mass index , marital status and education . use of alcohol was associated with higher risk of mortality from hypertension , hemorrhagic stroke and cardiomyopathy , but with lower risk from cad , occlusive stroke and nonspecific cardiovascular syndromes . subsets free of baseline cardiovascular or cad risk had u-shaped alcohol-cad curves similar to subsets with baseline risk . among ex-drinkers , maximal past intake and reasons for quitting ( medical versus non-medical ) were unrelated to cardiovascular or cad mortality . these data show that : ( 1 ) alcohol has disparate relations to cardiovascular conditions ; ( 2 ) higher cardiovascular mortality rates among ex-drinkers are due to confounding traits related to past alcohol use ; and ( 3 ) the u-shaped alcohol-cad relation is not due to selective abstinence by persons at higher risk . the findings indirectly support a protective effect of lighter drinking against cad . 
subnormal parasympathetic activity after cardiac transplantation . heart period variability ( standard deviation of 120 consecutive rr or pp intervals ) was used to assess baseline parasympathetic activity in 18 patients with congestive heart failure before and after orthotopic cardiac transplantation , and was compared to that of 16 age-matched control subjects . mean heart period variability ( + / - standard error of the mean ) was significantly greater ( p less than 0.05 ) in control subjects ( 58 + / - 5 ms ) than in the patients at any time before or after transplantation . heart period variability of innervated recipient atria did not change significantly early ( 1 to 4 weeks ) after transplantation ( 16 + / - 2 to 24 + / - 5 ms ; p = 0.11 ) , but increased significantly between weeks 15 and 37 after transplantation ( 30 + / - 5 ms , p less than 0.002 versus before transplantation ) . a stepwise regression model ( r2 = 0.35 ; p = 0.01 ) showed that heart period variability was directly related to time after transplantation and inversely related to systolic arterial pressure after transplantation and degree of rejection . heart period variability of the denervated donor atria did not change from early to late periods after transplantation , suggesting that vagal reinnervation of the donor heart had not occurred . these data indicate that baseline parasympathetic activity does not increase significantly during the first month after transplantation but increases significantly between months 3 and 6 . 
erythrocyte fatty acids , plasma lipids , and cardiovascular disease in rural china . cardiovascular disease ( cvd ) mortality ( coronary heart disease , hypertensive heart disease , and stroke ) , plasma lipids , and red blood cell fatty acid composition were examined in an ecologic study in 65 rural counties in the people 's republic of china . means of plasma total cholesterol , triglyceride , low-density-lipoprotein ( ldl ) cholesterol , and high-density-lipoprotein ( hdl ) cholesterol concentrations were substantially lower and the ratio of hdl cholesterol to total cholesterol was higher in this chinese population than in western populations . mortality rates for cvd in china were well below western values . within china neither plasma total cholesterol nor ldl cholesterol was associated with cvd . a strong inverse correlation between red blood cell oleate concentrations and cvd was observed . however , red blood cell oleate concentrations were not associated with plasma cholesterol but were strongly negatively associated with arachidonate concentrations , suggesting potential diminution of cvd by oleate through reduced platelet aggregability . the results indicate that geographical differences in cvd mortality within china are caused primarily by factors other than dietary or plasma cholesterol . 
effects of fish-oil ingestion on cardiovascular risk factors in hyperlipidemic subjects in israel : a randomized , double-blind crossover study . effects of a daily fish-oil supplement on serum lipids , apolipoproteins , and some platelet functions and hemorheologic variables were examined in 27 hyperlipidemic subjects in a randomized , controlled , double-blind , crossover fashion with an identically encapsulated vegetable oil serving as the control treatment . despite the habitual high linoleic acid intake of the study population , significant incorporation of n-3 ( omega-3 ) fatty acids into the serum , platelet , and erythrocyte lipids was observed after the fish-oil supplement . ingestion of fish oil resulted in a 40 % decrease in the triglyceride concentration , a 12 % increase in hdl cholesterol , and a significant decrease in plasma viscosity , whereas the vegetable-oil placebo had no significant effect . we conclude that a moderate intake of fish oil ( 15 g/d ) is a feasible treatment for hypertriglyceridemia even in patients with a background of high linoleic acid intake and that it may have a beneficial effect on several cardiovascular risk factors . 
disproportionate septal hypertrophy associated with erythroblastosis fetalis . we retrospectively reviewed clinical and echocardiographic data on 10 newborns with erythroblastosis fetalis who were admitted to our nurseries between 1984 and 1988 and who required a double-volume exchange transfusion and neonatal intensive care . echocardiograms were performed in the first 48 hours of life . in 5 patients , disproportionate septal hypertrophy was demonstrated ; 1 additional patient had biventricular hypertrophy with a thickened septum but not disproportionate septal hypertrophy . the mean septal : left ventricular free-wall ratio for the group ( n = 10 ) was 1.37 . no correlation was apparent between the occurrence of disproportionate septal hypertrophy and newborn glucose , bilirubin , or hematocrit values . when analyzed separately , the 4 patients who did not receive intrauterine blood transfusions had a ratio of 1.73 + / - 0.21 ( mean + / - sem ) ; this was significantly greater than the ratio in the 6 patients who were transfused in utero ( 1.13 + / - 0.24 ) . in patients who underwent transfusions , there was no correlation between the number of transfusions and the septal : left ventricular ratio . this study reports a significant but previously unrecognized cardiac hypertrophy with disproportionate septal hypertrophy in patients with erythroblastosis fetalis . our data suggest a sparing effect of intrauterine fetal transfusions . the mechanism by which these transfusions may affect the hypertrophic development of the myocardium remains to be determined . 
hepatic portal venous gas : an unusual presentation of crohn 's disease . hepatic portal venous gas is associated with numerous conditions and traditionally has been regarded as an ominous prognostic sign . there are several reports of hepatic portal venous gas occurring in patients with inflammatory bowel disease after or during the performance of colonic diagnostic studies . we report an unusual case of crohn 's disease whose initial presentation included hepatic portal venous gas . the literature of hepatic portal venous gas associated with inflammatory bowel disease is reviewed . 
autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease -- more than a renal disease . autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease ( adpkd ) is the most common genetic disease , affecting a half million americans . the clinical phenotype can result from at least two different gene defects . one gene that can cause adpkd has been located on the short arm of chromosome 16 . this discovery has made possible new methods for diagnosing the disorder in gene carriers prior to the development of renal cysts . although renal cysts are clearly an important manifestation of the gene defect , other systemic manifestations are both common and clinically important . cardiac valvular lesions , intracranial aneurysms , hepatic cysts , and diverticula are included in the array of systemic manifestations . moreover , renal cysts are only one of a myriad of renal manifestations . although adpkd was long considered an adult cystic disease , it is also a common cause of childhood cystic disease and must be considered in the differential diagnosis in that setting . 
body fluid spaces and blood pressure in hemodialysis patients during amelioration of anemia with erythropoietin . blood pressure ( bp ) may increase in hemodialysis patients during treatment of anemia with recombinant human erythropoietin ( r-huepo ) . since fluid volume is a determinant of bp in dialysis patients , changes in body fluid spaces during r-huepo therapy could affect bp . thus , 51cr-labeled red blood cell ( rbc ) volume , inulin extracellular fluid ( ecf ) volume , and urea total body water ( tbw ) , as well as cardiac output , plasma renin activity ( pra ) , and plasma aldosterone concentration were determined postdialysis before and after r-huepo therapy in patients in whom changes in bp could be managed by ultrafiltration alone . eleven patients entered the study : one had a renal transplant and two required addition of antihypertensive drug therapy and were excluded ; eight , of whom two required antihypertensive drug therapy following the study , were included in the analyses . results revealed an increase in predialysis hemoglobin from 67 to 113 g/l ( 6.7 to 11.3 g/dl ) ( p = 0.001 ) during 18 + / - 6 weeks of therapy . predialysis diastolic bp increased from 80 to 85 mm hg ( p = 0.07 ) , while postdialysis diastolic bp was unchanged at 73 mm hg . 51cr-rbc volume increased , from 0.7 to 1.3 l ( p = 0.004 ) . ecf tended to decrease , from 13.7 to 10.8 l ( p = 0.064 ) , while tbw decreased to a similar extent , but not significantly , 34.3 to 31.2 l ( p = 0.16 ) . postdialysis ecf volume was positively correlated with mean arterial bp at baseline ( r = 0.89 , p = 0.007 ) and after therapy ( r = 0.74 , p = 0.035 ) . however , the regression lines for this relationship were different ( p = 0.022 ) before and after therapy . 
tubulointerstitial changes in systemic vasculitic disorders : a quantitative study of 18 biopsy cases . tubulointerstitial alterations were studied in 18 biopsy cases of systemic vasculitis . to evaluate the changes more objectively , two indexes , the number of interstitial inflammatory cells and tubulitis percentage , were used . the group means of both of these indexes were statistically higher than those of the autopsy control group , while 14 of the cases ( 77.8 % ) showed a significant difference ( p less than 0.01 ) between individual means and the control group means . on the other hand , tubulointerstitial changes in systemic vasculitis seemed to be less prominent than drug-induced tubulointerstitial nephritis ( tin ) according to these indexes . however , comparing these indexes with those of drug-induced tin , six cases ( 33.3 % ) of systemic angiitis could be regarded as having developed pathologic changes similar to tin . statistical difference was not shown in the indexes between those patients with histologic evidence of necrotizing angiitis and those without it . clinically , urinary n-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase ( nag ) was abnormally high in all three examined cases , reflecting the damage of renal tubular epithelial cells . not only the vascular and glomerular lesions , but also tubulointerstitial changes , should be evaluated in the renal biopsy specimen of systemic vasculitis . 
the future of nephrology . the cellular and molecular age of nephrology has dawned and the future is remarkably exciting . the successful attack on the major causes of renal disease , including genetic diseases , glomerulonephritis , diabetes , vasculitis , acute renal failure , and hypertension , will necessitate improved knowledge about pathogenesis . this new knowledge will allow early detection and target-specific therapies , the array of which is only limited by our imagination . the challenge to be an active player in this exciting future as a physician-scientist in the field of nephrology is indeed a rare opportunity . 
sudden death in young competitive athletes : clinicopathologic correlations in 22 cases . purpose : to investigate the pathologic substrates of sudden death in young competitive athletes . patients and methods : twenty-two cases of sudden death in young competitive athletes occurring in the veneto region ( northern italy ) in the period january 1979 to december 1989 were studied by postmortem examination . the athletes included 19 males and three females , ranging in age from 11 to 35 years ( mean , 23 years ) . results : in 18 cases , sudden death occurred during ( 16 cases ) or immediately after ( two cases ) a competitive sport activity . in 10 subjects , sudden death was apparently the first sign of disease . postmortem examination disclosed that this fatality was due to arrhythmic cardiac arrest in 17 cases ; among these , right ventricular cardiomyopathy , also known as " right ventricular dysplasia , " was the most frequently encountered cardiovascular disease ( six cases ) , followed by atherosclerotic coronary artery disease ( four cases ) , conduction system pathology ( three cases ) , anomalous origin of right coronary artery from the wrong aortic sinus ( two cases ) , and mitral valve prolapse ( two cases ) . in two athletes , the abrupt lethal complication was " mechanical " and consisted of pulmonary embolism and rupture of the aorta ; in three athletes , death was due to a cerebral cause . all athletes with right ventricular cardiomyopathy died during effort , and most had a history of palpitations and/or syncope . whenever available , electrocardiographic ( ecg ) tracings showed inverted t waves in precordial leads and/or left bundle branch block ventricular arrhythmias . conclusions : clinicopathologic correlations indicate that in the veneto region of italy , right ventricular cardiomyopathy is not so rare among the cardiovascular diseases associated with the risk of arrhythmic cardiac arrest , and seems to account for the majority of cases of sudden death in young athletes ; this disorder can be suspected during life on the basis of prodromal symptoms and ecg signs . 
beta 2-microglobulin predicts survival in primary systemic amyloidosis . purpose : the study assessed whether beta 2-microglobulin levels predict survival or response in patients with primary systemic amyloidosis without associated multiple myeloma . patients and methods : the study group consisted of 131 untreated patients with biopsy-proven primary systemic amyloidosis diagnosed and evaluated at the mayo clinic . no patient had multiple myeloma . the minimum follow-up of surviving patients is 8 years . no patient was lost to follow-up . results : the median survival of patients with an increased beta 2-microglobulin level was 10.8 months , compared with patients with a normal beta 2-microglobulin level ( less than or equal to 2.7 micrograms/ml , 0.23 mumol/l ) of 32.9 months ( p less than 0.001 ) . in a multivariate proportional-hazards model , the best model included congestive heart failure ( p less than 0.0001 ) and increased beta 2-microglobulin levels ( p less than 0.05 ) . after adjustment for the presence of congestive heart failure , beta 2-microglobulin level remained significant . when the analysis was restricted to those patients with normal renal function , the median survival of those with an elevated beta 2-microglobulin level was 9.1 months versus 39.4 months for those with a normal level ( p less than 0.001 ) . the serum level of beta 2-microglobulin was increased in patients with nephrotic-range proteinuria with or without renal insufficiency ( p = 0.05 ) . conclusion : the serum beta 2-microglobulin level should be measured routinely in all patients with primary systemic amyloidosis because it provides a useful objective factor to identify subsets of patients with this disease who have unfavorable outcomes . 
developing improved observational methods for evaluating therapeutic effectiveness . therapeutic efficacy is often studied with observational surveys of patients whose treatments were selected nonexperimentally . the results of these surveys are distrusted because of the fear that biased results occur in the absence of experimental principles , particularly randomization . the purpose of the current study was to develop and validate improved observational study designs by incorporating many of the design principles and patient assembly procedures of the randomized trial . the specific topic investigated was the prophylactic effectiveness of beta-blocker therapy after an acute myocardial infarction . to accomplish the research objective , three sets of data were compared . first , we developed a restricted cohort based on the eligibility criteria of the randomized clinical trial ; second , we assembled an expanded cohort using the same design principles except for not restricting patient eligibility ; and third , we used the data from the beta blocker heart attack trial ( bhat ) , whose results served as the gold standard for comparison . in this research , the treatment difference in death rates for the restricted cohort and the bhat trial was nearly identical . in contrast , the expanded cohort had a larger treatment difference than was observed in the bhat trial . we also noted the important and largely neglected role that eligibility criteria may play in ensuring the validity of treatment comparisons and study outcomes . the new methodologic strategies we developed may improve the quality of observational studies and may be useful in assessing the efficacy of the many medical/surgical therapies that can not be tested with randomized clinical trials . 
effects of calcium channel blockade on calcium homeostasis in mild to moderate essential hypertension . calcium channel blockers may alter parathyroid hormone secretion in vitro , which would alter calcium homeostasis . to determine the chronic effect of calcium channel blockade in vivo , we conducted a randomized , double blind , 16 week study comparing the effects of two pharmacologic antihypertensive agents , the calcium channel blocker diltiazem and the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor captopril on parameters of calcium homeostasis . both diltiazem and captopril lowered blood pressure to a similar degree . neither drug produced any significant change in blood levels of total and ionized calcium , magnesium , or phosphorus , which affect the regulation of parathyroid hormone and vitamin d. in addition , at eight or 16 weeks following initiation , neither drug altered the serum levels of parathyroid hormone ( pth ) or 1,25 - ( oh ) 2-vitamin d3 ( 1,25-d ) . chronic calcium channel blockade with diltiazem does not alter serum parameters of calcium homeostasis and , thus , should not affect bone mineralization . 
an assault on old friends : thiazide diuretics under siege . the adverse biochemical effects of thiazide use are of uncertain clinical significance . thiazides raise ldl cholesterol only slightly in long-term studies and do not decrease hdl cholesterol . the evidence linking thiazide-induced hypokalemia with arrhythmias and sudden death is tenuous at best . thiazide diuretics cause glucose intolerance , but no strong evidence has been advanced to suggest that this is dangerous . because these effects are probably related to hypokalemia , a randomized trial comparing the effects of thiazides with thiazides plus a potassium-sparing diuretic on ldl cholesterol , ectopy on 48 hour ambulatory cardiac monitoring , fasting glucose and insulin , and post-glucose tolerance glucose and insulin would be of interest . the most compelling reason for continuing to use thiazides is that they have been shown in long-term randomized studies to reduce cardiovascular risk . beta-blockers are the only other class of anti-hypertensive agent for which this claim can be made . the importance of long-term clinical trials in assessing the efficacy and toxicity of therapeutic agents is illustrated by the study that found clofibrate reduced cholesterol levels and coronary disease but increased total mortality . this finding remained undetected until a large randomized long-term trial was completed . thiazide diuretics have not reduced the rate of coronary disease to the degree expected from epidemiologic studies , but the short length of the randomized trials may be responsible . it is not clear that other anti-hypertensive agents will be superior . thiazides are less expensive than other anti-hypertensive agents being touted as metabolically safer ; the cost issue is not a trivial matter . 
a simplified technique for the production of heart failure in the dog by rapid ventricular pacing . prolonged rapid ventricular pacing ( vp ) in dogs produces low output heart failure ( hf ) characterized by cardiomegaly , ascites , and elevated plasma renin and norepinephrine levels . commercially available pacemaker generators have a protective circuit that prevents pacing at rapid rates . previously , investigators have had to use either external temporary pacemakers or customized generators to pace at rates greater than 130 beats per minute ( bpm ) . the authors have developed a simple method to perform rapid vp by gluing magnets on medtronic vvi generators , which allows programming in a temporary mode to sustain rates up to 400 bpm . our results using 10 generators in 55 dogs demonstrates that hf is produced in all dogs when vp is maintained at 250 bpm for an average of 28 days . technical difficulties during our early experience with this technique included magnets becoming unglued , loss of capture , and wound complications requiring generator removal . thus , our method reuses commercially available generators to rapidly pace the ventricles and induce hf . 
molecular biology in cardiology : recent developments and opportunities for clinical applications . the revolution in molecular biology that has taken place in the last decade has provided powerful research methods that are changing our understanding of cardiovascular physiology and disease . this editorial commentary will highlight several areas of current research activity within the broad and expanding field of molecular cardiology , with a special emphasis on prospects for clinical applications in cardiovascular medicine . 
prevalence and determinants of estrogen replacement therapy in elderly women . to better understand which women use estrogen replacement therapy , we examined the prevalence and determinants of estrogen replacement therapy in 9704 nonblack women , age greater than or equal to 65 years , who participated in the multicenter prospective study of osteoporotic fractures . overall , 13.7 % of women reported current use of oral estrogen ; 10.9 % took estrogen alone and 2.8 % took estrogen opposed by progestin . four percent currently used parenteral estrogen compounds . current use declined sharply with age from 17 % at age 65 to 4 % at age greater than or equal to 85 . the primary determinant of estrogen replacement therapy was the type of menopause ; the odds of using estrogen replacement therapy in current users compared with never users were approximately five times higher in women with a surgical menopause . estrogen use was more common among women who had higher levels of education and were less obese . furthermore , estrogen replacement therapy users were more likely to drink alcohol and to participate in sports and recreation . a diagnosis of osteoporosis was the major determinant of continued estrogen use , but only 24 % of women with a diagnosis of osteoporosis used estrogen replacement therapy . we conclude that only a small proportion of elderly women in the united states use estrogen replacement therapy . selection factors for use of estrogen are evident and may introduce bias in studies of estrogen and disease . in consideration of the distribution of these selection factors , estrogen users will tend to be at lower risk of coronary disease and possibly breast cancer but at greater risk for hip fractures . 
ultrasonographic diagnosis of a large placental intervillous thrombosis associated with elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein level . a placental lesion associated with elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein level and a positive kleihauer-betke test is reported . serial ultrasonograms showed a progressive increase in the echogenicity of the lesion that corresponded to a large intervillous thrombosis after delivery . this case illustrates the importance of detailed ultrasonographic and pathologic placental investigations in pregnancies with unexplained elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein . 
hyperadrenergic orthostatic intolerance as a result of postpartum blood loss . this article describes a young women in whom orthostatic intolerance developed as a result of protracted postpartum vaginal bleeding . the cardiovascular abnormalities were unresponsive to usual treatment measures , and she required combination therapy directed at increasing plasma volume and decreasing sympathetic nervous system activity . after resolution of her symptoms , the patient required no long-term therapy . chronic blood loss has not been reported as a cause of this syndrome . 
ultrasonographic assessment of placental abnormalities . current ultrasonographic techniques offer a novel approach for the identification of a wide variety of placental abnormalities usually described postnatally by the pathologist . placental vascular lesions , placental tumors , and abnormal placentation are potentially associated with perinatal complications and their diagnosis in utero may influence the pregnancy management . an ultrasonographic classification of placental lesions that is based on their location , size , echogenicity , and number is proposed . repeated ultrasonographic examination , together with biologic investigations , is important for the prenatal differential diagnosis of most these lesions and for full understanding of their pathophysiologic characteristics and significance . 
clustering of atherogenic behaviors in coffee drinkers . we studied the clustering of coffee consumption and selected atherogenic behaviors in older adults living in a southern california community . men were somewhat more likely to drink caffeinated coffee while women were more likely to drink decaffeinated coffee . in men , but not women , caffeinated coffee drinking decreased with age and decaffeinated coffee drinking increased . caffeinated coffee drinkers drank more alcohol , consumed more dietary saturated fats and cholesterol , were more likely to be current smokers and less likely to be current exercisers than were non-coffee drinkers . smoking and exercise also showed a dose-response relationship to the amount of caffeinated coffee consumed . risk factor levels among drinkers of decaffeinated coffee were more like those of caffeinated coffee than non-drinkers . these data illustrate the clustering of atherogenic behaviors with coffee drinking and highlight their potential importance in interpreting the growing body of literature about coffee and health . 
the association between type a behavior and change in coronary risk factors among young adults . the association of type a/b behavior pattern and changes in blood pressure , total serum cholesterol , serum triglyceride , body mass , and smoking was estimated in a cohort of 375 young black and white men and women from a rural county in central kentucky between 1978-79 and 1985-88 . type a participants experienced significant increases in systolic ( 2.90 + / - 1.29 mmhg ) and diastolic ( 3.80 + / - 1.17 mmhg ) blood pressure and in cigarette smoking ( 3.26 + / - 0.89 cigarettes per day ) over the eight-year follow-up period , but type b participants experienced no change . type a and b individuals showed similar changes in total serum cholesterol , serum triglyceride , or body mass . differences between behavioral types in blood pressure were present for women but not men , and for blacks but not for whites . these findings suggest a possible significance of the type a pattern for the development of cardiovascular risk of young adults . 
the framingham disability study : relationship of various coronary heart disease manifestations to disability in older persons living in the community . the relation between coronary heart disease and disability was examined in 2,576 community-dwelling women and men ages 55-88 years . these framingham study participants were originally recruited in 1948-51 for an examination of cardiovascular disease . twenty-seven years later , remaining members of the cohort were interviewed to ascertain physical abilities , and a score on a disability scale was assigned . multivariate logistic analyses examined disability in relation to uncomplicated angina pectoris ( ap ) , complicated ap , and coronary heart disease other than ap , controlling for possible confounders . in younger and older women and men , uncomplicated and complicated ap were associated with disability . coronary heart disease other than ap was associated with disability only in the younger men . congestive heart failure predicted disability only in the women . these results suggest that onset of ap should be recognized as a critical point in the development of disability and that ap is a better predictor of disability than is myocardial infarction or coronary insufficiency . 
hypertension prevalence and the status of awareness , treatment , and control in the hispanic health and nutrition examination survey ( hhanes ) , 1982-84 the prevalence rates of hypertension among adult ( ages 18-74 ) mexican americans , cuban americans , and puerto ricans were estimated using data from the 1982-84 hispanic health and nutrition examination survey ( hhanes ) . hypertension is defined as diastolic greater than or equal to 90 mm hg , or systolic greater than or equal to 140 mm hg , or currently taking antihypertensive medication . among mexican americans in the southwestern united states , 16.8 percent of the males and 14.1 percent of the females were found to be hypertensive . among cuban americans in dade county , florida 22.8 percent of the males and 15.5 percent of the females were hypertensive . among puerto ricans in the new york city area 15.6 percent of the males and 11.5 percent of the females were hypertensive . the age-adjusted rates are significantly lower than comparable rates for whites and blacks as measured in the second national health and nutrition examination survey ( nhanes ii ) , 1976-80 . control of hypertension in the hhanes populations fall short of the 1990 objectives for the nation established by the us public health service 60 percent ( 34 percent controlled mexican american hypertensives , 27.8 percent controlled cuban american hypertensives , and 29 percent controlled puerto rican hypertensives . 
a note on the measurement of hypertension in hhanes using data from the hhanes , we found the rates of elevated blood pressure readings on clinical examination to be extremely low for a sample of mexican american and puerto rican women . the prevalence rates were one-fourth to one-fifth the rates found for a comparable sample of white women from nhanesii . these findings are discrepant with the little that is known about hypertension prevalence among hispanics and with estimates of hypertension prevalence for mexican americans and puerto ricans drawn from nhanesii . while our hhanes samples women had much lower rates of clinical high blood pressure than whites , they reported hypertension histories in excess of whites . rates of medicine usage among hispanics were insufficiently large for effective treatment to explain the disparity . the prevalence estimates increased , but the relative discrepancies remained when we altered our sample specifications and clinical high blood pressure measure . a possible explanation for these discrepancies is that few physicians performed the majority of blood pressure readings in our hhanes sample . this may have been statistically inefficient . the discrepancies noted suggest that hhanes may not be a reliable source of information on hypertension among hispanic women . 
long-term impact of smoking cessation on the incidence of coronary heart disease . using a simulation model of the us male population , we estimated the long-term impact that future smoking cessation programs would have on the distribution and occurrence of coronary heart disease in males ages 35-84 . for interventions that reduce the number of smokers by 25 percent in 1990 , the number of men free of coronary heart disease is projected to increase by 416,787 ( 0.7 percent ) in 2015 , and the age-standardized absolute incidence to decline by 2.3 percent . incidence rates and absolute incidences are projected to fall in men under age 65 , but absolute incidence would rise in men over age 65 , in large part because of the increased number of men who were at risk for coronary heart disease because of a reduction in non-coronary smoking-related mortality . these trends were more marked for greater smoking reductions and were generally unaffected in a variety of analyses using alternative assumptions , which considered smoking as a risk factor in the elderly , a lag-time before benefits from smoking cessation were realized and secular declines in smoking prevalence . subject to the assumptions of our model , we conclude that smoking reductions will markedly reduce coronary heart disease , especially in younger age groups , and that this benefit will be slightly offset by a small increase in absolute incidence in elderly men . 
physical activity , opportunity for reinfection , and sibling history of heart disease as risk factors for chagas ' cardiopathy . a case-control study was conducted to examine whether physical activity , sibling history of heart disease ( hhd ) , and length of residence in an area endemic for chagas ' disease were associated with the risk of developing chagas ' cardiopathy . two hundred forty-seven cases of chagas ' heart disease and 345 seropositive subjects with normal ecg ( controls ) were selected in a population survey in goiania , brazil . prevalence ratios for exposure variables were estimated for cases in relation to controls and for subgroups of seropositives with selected ecg abnormalities in relation to controls . increasing age and male sex were consistently and significantly related to an increased risk of ecg abnormalities . hhd was significantly associated with ecg alterations in 3 of the 5 comparison subgroups ( any ecg alteration , right bundle branch block , and left anterior hemiblock ) . no association was found between length of residence in an area endemic , physical activity , and ecg abnormalities . a sample of 529 seronegative subjects were also examined and the interaction between exposure variables and seropositivity was tested to assess whether the associations found were specific for seropositives . males were at greater risk of any ecg alteration and left anterior hemiblock in relation to females if they were seropositive . an increasing risk of ventricular premature beats with age was clearer for seropositive than for seronegative subjects . subjects with hhd were at an increased risk of ecg abnormalities and this was greater in those with a positive serological test ( p less than 0.05 ) . the findings suggest a possible geographical clustering or a familial aggregation of cases of chagas ' heart disease . 
fish oil supplementation in patients with stable claudication . increased blood viscosity occurs in patients with claudication . this increase in viscosity , which is mainly due to elevated fibrinogen levels and a decreased red cell deformability , adversely influences blood flow . in addition to a positive effect on blood pressure , blood lipids , and platelet responsiveness , fish oil may improve blood flow due to a favorable influence on hemorrheology . in a prospective , randomized , double-blind study , we evaluated the effect of six capsules of fish oil ( 1.8 g eicosapentaenoic acid and 1.2 g docosahexaenoic acid ) versus six capsules of corn oil ( 3 g linoleic acid ) , administered for 4 months , on walking distances , pressure indices during rest and after exercise , blood pressure , red cell deformability , fibrinogen , and lipid levels in 32 patients with stable claudication . no significant changes in walking distances and pressure indices during rest and after exercise occurred , despite a significant increase in red cell deformability in the fish oil group . fibrinogen levels did not change in either group . in the fish oil group , a favorable change in blood lipids was noted ; high-density cholesterol increased and triglycerides decreased . mean arterial blood pressure declined to a similar extent in both groups . thus , short-term supplementation with fish oil does not lead to clinically significant improvement of symptoms in patients with stable claudication . this suggests that red cell deformability is of minor importance in the arterial blood flow in the legs of these patients . 
an outpatient anticoagulation protocol managed by a vascular nurse-clinician . lifetime anticoagulation has become a therapeutic option for surgical patients with hypercoagulable states or prosthetic arterial bypass grafts . however , physicians may not achieve optimal anticoagulation or may attempt to limit the length of the therapy period because of the perceived morbidity from hemorrhagic complications of coumadin therapy . a protocol for anticoagulant therapy monitored and regulated by a vascular nurse-clinician was reviewed . coumadin was prescribed for 1,891 patient-months to 93 patients to maintain their prothrombin time 1.5 to 2 times control ( range : 18 to 24 seconds ) . the mean ( + / - sd ) prothrombin time for the study population was 19.8 + / - 1.8 seconds . during follow-up , 472 ( 14 % ) of 3,479 prothrombin times measured were below the therapeutic range ( n = 232 ) or prolonged ( n = 240 ) , prompting an adjustment in the coumadin dose in 82 ( 88 % ) patients . four patients developed recurrent vascular graft thrombosis while receiving anticoagulation . there were 6 major and 11 minor hemorrhagic complications . patients with a chronic risk for arterial or venous thrombosis can have out-patient anticoagulant therapy administered at optimal intensity and regulated safely with a low incidence of hemorrhagic and thrombotic events . 
comparison of blood flow assessment between laser doppler velocimetry and the hydrogen gas clearance method in ischemic intestine in dogs . blood flow of the colon and the ileum was measured before and after intestinal devascularization by laser doppler velocimetry and the hydrogen gas clearance technique in 10 dogs in order to evaluate the clinical usefulness of laser doppler velocimetry . the submucosal blood flow of the colon and the ileum measured by the hydrogen gas clearance method was significantly decreased , as was the subserosal blood flow of both sites measured by laser doppler velocimetry . there was a linear relationship between the flow values using the two methods both in the colon ( r = 0.7192 , p less than 0.001 ) and in the ileum ( r = 0.7646 , p less than 0.001 ) . these data suggested laser doppler velocimetry may be a useful method to assess the degree of intestinal ischemia because of its noninvasiveness and good correlation with submucosal blood flow by the hydrogen gas clearance technique . 
admissions to the intensive care unit after complications of anaesthetic techniques over 10 years . 2 . the second 5 years compared with the first 5 years there was a 19 % increase in general anaesthetics , a 171 % increase in local and ( or ) sedation techniques and a 9 % increase in obstetric epidurals with no increase in anaesthetic staffing . in this second 5-year period , 46 patients were admitted to the intensive care unit as a result of a complication of an anaesthetic technique . these patients represented 1 in 2371 anaesthetic techniques carried out in the district compared with the previous 5 years where the incidence was 1 in 1543 . seven patients died ( 15.2 % ) . the complication was considered to be wholly or partially avoidable in 14 instances ( 30.4 % ) . four of these subjects died . 
severe hypotension due to intramyometrial injection of prostaglandin e2 treatment of postpartum haemorrhage because of uterine atony with intramyometrial prostaglandin e2 1 mg , in an anaesthetised patient resulted in life-threatening hypotension . anaesthetists should be aware of the potential cardiovascular side effects of prostaglandins . 
adverse haemodynamic effects of high-dose aprotinin in a paediatric cardiac surgical patient . high-dose aprotinin for reduction of intra - and postoperative blood loss was associated with profound hypotension and flushing in a 3.5-year-old child who underwent cardiac surgery . treatment with noradrenaline and intravenous fluid was required . cardiovascular stability was restored after 10 minutes . 
autonomic dysfunction and guillain-barre syndrome . the use of esmolol in its management . a 17-year-old girl with guillain-barre syndrome and autonomic dysfunction was treated successfully with esmolol . esmolol may be an appropriate drug for the rapid assessment and control of tachyarrhythmias in critically ill patients . 
no finding of increased myocardial ischemia during or after carotid endarterectomy under anesthesia with nitrous oxide . nitrous oxide ( n2o ) has been implicated as a cause of myocardial ischemia . we investigated whether substitution of n2o for a portion of the anesthesia supplied by isoflurane increased myocardial ischemia in patients at risk for such ischemia . seventy patients having carotid endarterectomies ( 63 patients ) or other carotid surgery ( seven patients ) were prospectively , randomly assigned to an anesthetic regimen that included or excluded n2o . all other aspects of anesthetic management were similar , except for greater concentrations of oxygen and isoflurane in patients not given n2o . perioperative monitoring for myocardial ischemia and infarction included 12 - or 5-lead electrocardiography , transesophageal echocardiography , and creatine kinase isoenzyme levels . by transesophageal echocardiographic or electrocardiographic criteria , 44 % of patients given oxygen but only 21 % of those given n2o had myocardial ischemia intraoperatively ( p = 0.065 ) . similarly , myocardial infarction , identified by changes in creatine kinase isoenzymes , occurred in only one patient given n2o but in three given oxygen ( not significantly different ) . thus we found no trend indicating a greater incidence of myocardial ischemia or infarction associated with the use of n2o . 
thoracic epidural anesthesia improves global and regional left ventricular function during stress-induced myocardial ischemia in patients with coronary artery disease . the aim of the present investigation was to study the effects of high thoracic epidural anesthesia ( tea ) , including the cardiac sympathetic segments , on ischemic st-segment changes and left ventricular global and regional wall motion abnormalities . ten patients with a two - or three-vessel coronary artery disease , all treated with the beta-adrenergic blocker metoprolol because of severe stable angina pectoris , performed two identical exercise stress tests , the first without tea ( control exercise ) and the second with tea ( tea exercise ) . before each stress test , intravenous metoprolol was given to achieve maximal or near maximal beta-adrenoceptor blockade . systolic and diastolic arterial pressures ( radial artery cannula ) , heart rate , and rate-pressure product , as well as global and regional ejection fractions , using equilibrium radionuclide angiography in the left anterior oblique projection , were measured at rest and during maximal exercise . st-segment analysis ( v3 or v5 ) was performed , and the regional wall motion score was calculated at control exercise and tea exercise . intravenous metoprolol or intravenous metoprolol plus tea at rest did not cause any significant changes of any of the variables . during tea exercise , systolic arterial pressure , diastolic arterial pressure , and rate-pressure product , but not heart rate , were significantly lower compared to control exercise . the global and anterolateral ejection fractions were significantly higher ( 52.8 % versus 46.5 % and 53.2 % versus 46.0 % , respectively , p less than 0.05 ) , and the regional wall motion score was significantly lower ( 8.8 versus 11.8 , p less than 0.01 ) during tea exercise than during control exercise . st-segment depression was significantly lower during tea exercise ( -1.03 versus -1.84 mv , p less than 0.01 ) . 
pulmonary hypertension after heparin-protamine : roles of left-sided infusion , histamine , and platelet-activating factor . severe pulmonary hypertension after protamine neutralization of heparin is an infrequent but life-threatening event following cardiopulmonary bypass . the effect of left ventricular infusion of protamine on pulmonary hypertension as well as a possible role of platelet-activating factor ( paf ) or histamine in the heparin-protamine reaction was investigated in 30 pigs in four different groups during general anesthesia . group 1 animals received 250 iu/kg heparin , followed by 100 mg protamine intravenously after 15 min . in group 2 protamine was infused into the left ventricle . group 3 animals received the histamine h1 - and h2-antagonists clemastine and ranitidine 5 min before protamine infusion . in group 4 the paf receptor blocker web 2086 was given 5 min before protamine . platelet-activating factor was measured by a bioassay in serum samples of group 1 and group 4 animals . in all four groups protamine caused severe pulmonary hypertension , thromboxane a2 release , and a transient decrease in leukocyte counts . no paf release was detected after protamine infusion . neither left ventricular infusion of protamine nor histamine or paf antagonists prevented or attenuated the reactions after protamine infusion . the authors conclude that left ventricular infusion of protamine provides no protection from pulmonary hypertension , and that histamine and paf are not involved in the acute pulmonary vasoconstriction after protamine neutralization of heparin . 
electroencephalographic changes during brief cardiac arrest in humans . slowing and attenuation of the dominant frequency of the electroencephalogram ( eeg ) are changes commonly used to detect cerebral ischemia . to assess the validity of this method , the eegs recorded during 93 episodes of circulatory arrest in ten normothermic , lightly anesthetized patients undergoing implantation of automatic internal cardioverting defibrillators ( aicds ) were visually inspected for change . the number of events recorded for each patient varied from 5 to 18 and was a function of the duration and success of aicd testing in each patient . in 82 of 93 ( 88 % ) episodes , eeg changes were identified , and occurred an average of 10.2 s after the last normal heart beat . of these 82 , 67 ( 82 % ) illustrated slowing and attenuation . however , 15 ( 18 % ) of the hemodynamic events showed changes not previously described as indicative of cerebral ischemia : 6 ( 7 % ) showed a loss of delta-wave activity and 9 ( 11 % ) showed an increase in the amplitude of theta activity . time to onset of these unusual changes ( 10.6 and 9.2 s , respectively ) was not significantly different from that for eeg slowing and attenuation ( 10.2 s ) . five of the ten subjects showed more than one pattern of eeg change . there was no significant difference in the time to onset of eeg change among individual patients , and neither were there differences in patterns of change associated with particular anesthetic agents . these results indicate that in normothermic , lightly anesthetized individuals , cerebral ischemia may cause changes in eeg pattern other than slowing and attenuation of dominant frequencies . these alternative patterns should be recognized as indicative of cerebral ischemia when intraoperative eeg monitoring is performed . 
effects of thoracic epidural anesthesia on coronary arteries and arterioles in patients with coronary artery disease . the effect of cardiac sympathetic blockade by high thoracic epidural anesthesia ( tea ) ( t1-t6 , bupivacaine ) on the luminal diameter of normal and diseased portions of epicardial coronary arteries was determined by quantitative coronary angiography in patients ( n = 27 ) with severe coronary artery disease ( cad ) . in a separate group of patients ( n = 9 ) with severe cad , the effects of tea on coronary arterioles ( resistance vessels ) were studied , by measuring total and regional myocardial blood flow and metabolism with the retrograde coronary sinus thermodilution technique . at the stenotic segments , tea induced an increase in luminal diameter from 1.34 + / - 0.11 to 1.56 + / - 0.13 mm ( p less than 0.002 ) , but did not change the diameter of the nonstenotic segments ( 3.07 + / - 0.13 to 2.99 + / - 0.13 mm ) . in the second group of patients , tea induced no changes in coronary perfusion pressure , total or regional myocardial blood flow , coronary venous oxygen content , coronary blood flow distribution , regional myocardial oxygen consumption , or lactate extraction or uptake . two patients had chest pain in the control situation and had regional myocardial lactate production that was attenuated by tea . we conclude that tea may increase the diameter of stenotic epicardial coronary artery segments in patients with cad without causing a dilation of coronary arterioles . these effects may be beneficial when high tea is used to treat severe ischemic chest pain in patients at rest . 
effects of ketamine on the cardiac papillary muscle of normal hamsters and those with cardiomyopathy . the effect of ketamine ( 10 ( -5 ) and 10 ( -4 ) m ) on the intrinsic contractility of left ventricular papillary muscle from normal hamsters and those with cardiomyopathy ( bio 82.62 , 6-month old ) was investigated . at these concentrations , ketamine induced a positive inotropic effect on normal papillary muscle , as shown by an increase in maximum unloaded shortening velocity ( +19 + / - 4 and +34 + / - 5 % , p less than 0.05 ) , active isometric force ( +32 + / - 8 and +57 + / - 11 % , p less than 0.05 ) , and peak power output ( +40 + / - 8 and +80 + / - 16 % , p less than 0.05 ) , and induced a slight decrease in sarcoplasmic reticulum function . ketamine had no effect on the curvature of the total force-velocity curve , suggesting that it does not modify myothermal economy . contractility of papillary muscle from hamsters with cardiomyopathy was less than that of controls , as shown by the decrease in isometric active force ( -41 % , p less than 0.02 ) , peak power output ( -33 % , p less than 0.05 ) , and sarcoplasmic reticulum function . the positive inotropic effect of ketamine on papillary muscle from hamsters with cardiomyopathy was less marked than in controls and almost suppressed in some cases : only the maximum unloaded shortening velocity was significantly increased with 10 ( -5 ) m ketamine ( +7 + / - 6 % , p less than 0.05 ) , whereas no significant changes were observed in active isometric force ( +14 + / - 8 and +13 + / - 11 % ; nonsignificant [ ns ] ) and peak power output ( +9 + / - 5 and +13 + / - 8 % ; ns ) with ketamine ( 10 ( -5 ) and 10 ( -4 ) m , respectively ) . 
differential protective effects of halothane and isoflurane against hypoxic and reoxygenation injury in the isolated guinea pig heart . the authors investigated the effects of halothane ( hal ) and isoflurane ( iso ) on cardiac depression produced by global hypoxia and the recovery of function following reoxygenation is isolated guinea pig hearts perfused with krebs ' solution at constant pressure . isovolumetric left ventricular systolic ( lvsp ) and end-diastolic pressures ( lvedp ) were measured by placing a saline filled , latex balloon into the left ventricle . bipolar electrodes were placed in the right atrium and right ventricle for measurements of heart rate ( hr ) , atrioventricular conduction time ( avct ) , and determination of the incidence and severity of dysrhythmias occurring during hypoxia and reoxygenation . hearts were divided into three groups : control ( n = 20 ) , halothane ( n = 12 ) , and isoflurane ( n = 13 ) . all hearts were exposed in sequence to oxygenated perfusate ( po2 , 530 mmhg ) , moderately hypoxic perfusate ( po2 , 91 mmhg ) for 30 min , and then to oxygenated perfusate for 40 min . halothane ( 1 % , 0.4 mm ) or isoflurane ( 1.5 % , 0.5 mm ) were administered 10 min before hypoxia , during hypoxia , and during the first 10 min of reoxygenation . exposure to halothane and isoflurane before hypoxia produced a 14 and 11 % decrease in heart rate , a 32 and 23 % increase in avct , and a 47 and 28 % decrease in lvsp ( all p less than or equal to 0.001 ) for halothane and isoflurane , respectively , and no significant change in lvedp . during hypoxia , hr decreased and avct increased similarly in both groups . left ventricular systolic pressure ( lvsp ) decreased sharply with a narrowing of the prehypoxic differences among the groups . in the control and isoflurane groups , lvedp increased during hypoxia but remained unchanged in the halothane group . 
hemodynamic determinants of subdiaphragmatic venous return during closed-chest cpr in a canine cardiac arrest model . objective : to assess the hemodynamic determinates of peripheral subdiaphragmatic venous-to-right-heart return during closed-chest cpr . model : seven anesthetized dogs subjected to electrically induced ventricular fibrillation for five minutes . interventions : conventional closed-chest cpr and closed-chest cpr with continuous abdominal binding at a chest compression rate of 60 per minute , a compression-to-relaxation ratio of 50:50 , and a ventilation-to-compression ratio of 1:5 . methods : solid-state catheters were positioned in the ascending aorta , right atrium ( ra ) , and inferior vena cava ( ivc ) . cannulating electromagnetic flow probes were inserted into the ivc and a carotid artery . analog-to-digital conversion was performed electronically . five minutes after ventricular fibrillation was induced , interventions were performed in an alternating sequence . systolic , diastolic , and mean pressures and flows were measured and compared . statistical methods : two-tailed , unpaired t test applied to equal sample size , linear regression analysis , and multiple regression analysis . results : abdominal binding during cpr significantly increased ( p less than .05 ) all measured systolic and diastolic cpr intravascular pressures compared with cpr without abdominal binding but did not affect ivc-to-right-heart venous return . during conventional cpr without abdominal binding , venous return was dependent on the diastolic ivc pressure ( r = .86 , p = .014 ) , mean ivc pressure ( r = .80 , p = .03 ) , and carotid blood flow ( r = .99 , p = .001 ) but not on the ivc-to-ra pressure gradient . with abdominal binding , venous return was not correlated with any study hemodynamic variable , including the peripheral venous-to-ra pressure gradient . conclusion : venous return from the subdiaphragmatic venous bed during cpr is dependent on venous pressure , not on the peripheral venous-to-right-heart pressure gradient . abdominal binding during cpr does not affect venous return . venous return during cpr diastole is highly dependent on central venous capacitance ( left heart outflow during cpr systole ) . 
survival rates from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest : recommendations for uniform definitions and data to report . survival rates for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest vary widely among locations . we surveyed the definitions used in published studies of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest . data from 74 studies involving 36 communities showed survival rates ranging from 2 % to 44 % . there were five different case definitions and 11 different definitions of survivors . the absence of uniform definitions prevents meaningful intersystem comparisons , prohibits explorations of hypotheses about effective interventions , and interferes with the efforts of quality assurance . the most satisfactory numerator for a survival rate appears to be survival to hospital discharge ; the most appropriate denominator appears to be witnessed adult cardiac arrest of presumed heart disease etiology , with ventricular fibrillation as the initial identified rhythm . proposed definitions for the data emergency medical services systems should report as they examine their cardiac arrest survival rates are presented . 
prehospital cardiac arrest : the impact of witnessed collapse and bystander cpr in a metropolitan ems system with short response times . objective : numerous studies have shown initiation of bystander cpr to significantly improve survival from prehospital cardiac arrest . however , in emergency medical services ( ems ) systems with very short response times , bystander cpr has not been shown to impact outcome . the purpose of this study was to determine the effect of bystander cpr on survival from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in such a system . design : prehospital , hospital , and death certificate data from a medium-sized metropolitan area were retrospectively analyzed for adult , nontraumatic cardiac arrest during a 16-month period . results : a total of 298 patients met study criteria . one hundred ninety-five arrests ( 65.4 % ) were witnessed , and 103 ( 34.6 % ) were unwitnessed . twenty-five witnessed victims ( 12.8 % ) were discharged alive , whereas no unwitnessed victims survived ( p less than .001 ) . patients suffering a witnessed episode of ventricular fibrillation/tachycardia ( vf/vt ) were more likely to survive ( 21.9 % ) than were other patients ( 2.0 % , p less than .0001 ) . among witnessed patients , initiation of bystander cpr was associated with a significant improvement in survival ( 20.0 % ) compared with the no-bystander cpr group ( 9.2 % , p less than .05 ) . bystander cpr was also associated with improved outcome when witnessed patients with successful prehospital resuscitation were evaluated as a group ; 18 had bystander cpr , of whom 13 ( 72.2 % ) survived compared with only 12 of 38 patients with no bystander cpr ( 31.6 % , p less than .01 ) . conclusion : our data revealed improved survival rates when bystander cpr was initiated on victims of witnessed cardiac arrest in an ems system with short response times . 
successful cpr in a severely hypothermic patient using continuous thoracostomy lavage . severe hypothermia with cardiopulmonary arrest often requires prolonged resuscitation while rewarming procedures are implemented . a 63-year-old male in cardiopulmonary arrest with a core body temperature of 23.7 c was resuscitated successfully after core rewarming by means of a two-chest-tube continuous thoracostomy lavage procedure . this lavage procedure resulted in effective and rapid rewarming after other conventional rewarming methods had failed . 
early detection of acute myocardial infarction in patients presenting with chest pain and nondiagnostic ecgs : serial ck-mb sampling in the emergency department [ published erratum appears in ann emerg med 1991 apr ; 20 ( 4 ) :420 ] study objectives : patients presenting to the emergency department with chest discomfort are a difficult problem for emergency physicians . nearly 50 % of patients with acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) will initially have nondiagnostic ecgs on ed presentation . the purpose of this study was to determine if patients with ami having nondiagnostic ecgs could be identified using new immunochemical assays for serial ck-mb sampling in the ed . design : chest pain patients , more than 30 years old , with pain not caused by trauma or explained by radiographic findings , were eligible for the study . serial serum samples were drawn on ed presentation ( zero hours ) and three hours after presentation , then analyzed for ck-mb using four immunochemical methods and electrophoresis . standard world health organization criteria were used to establish the diagnosis of ami , including new q-wave formation or elevation of standard in-hospital serum cardiac enzyme markers . setting : a tertiary cardiac care community hospital . measurements and main results : the serum from 183 patients hospitalized for possible ischemic chest pain was collected and analyzed . thirty-one of 183 patients ( 17 % ) were found to have ami by standard in-hospital criteria . sixteen of the 31 patients ( 52 % ) with ami had nondiagnostic ecgs on presentation . immunochemical determination of serial ck-mb levels provided a sensitive and specific method for detecting ami in patients within three hours after ed presentation compared with standard electrophoresis . the four immunochemical methods demonstrated a range in sensitivity from 50 % to 62.1 % on ed presentation versus 92 % to 96.7 % three hours later . the immunochemical tests demonstrated specificities ranging from 83.0 % to 96.4 % at three hours , with three of the four tests having specificities of 92 % or greater . electrophoresis had a sensitivity of 34.5 % on ed presentation , increasing to 76.9 % at three hours , with a specificity of 98.6 % . conclusions : immunochemical ck-mb methods allowed rapid , sensitive detection of ami in the ed . early detection of ami offers many potential advantages to the emergency physician . early detection of ami , while the patient is in the ed , could direct disposition of this potentially unstable patient to an intensive care setting . such information may prevent the ed discharge of patients with ami having nondiagnostic ecgs . the diagnosis of ami within a six-hour period after symptom onset may allow thrombolytic therapy to be given to patients with ami not having diagnostic ecgs . this study served as a pilot trial for a multicenter study of the emergency medicine cardiac research group , which is currently ongoing . 
transtelephonic defibrillation . study objectives : this study was undertaken to assess the safety and reliability of a device for transtelephonic defibrillation . design : the transtelephonic system consists of a patient unit and a base station . the patient unit contains a monitor-defibrillator , electrode pads , microphone , microprocessor , and dc defibrillator . the base station comprises a control panel , computer , and ecg display . setting : fifteen patients who were treated in our emergency department for cardiac arrest were placed on patient units that activated our base station in a remote location within the ed . type of participants : thirteen patients were treated for ventricular fibrillation , and two patients were treated for ventricular tachycardia . interventions : thirty-one shocks were delivered transtelephonically . measurements and main results : in all cases , voice and ecg transmission were established without difficulty . conclusions : we conclude that this system represents a safe and reliable method for the treatment of ventricular fibrillation , and we advocate additional use to study the prehospital applications of transtelephonic defibrillation . 
distinguishable types of dyspnea in patients with shortness of breath . dyspnea frequently accompanies a variety of cardiopulmonary abnormalities . although dyspnea is often considered a single sensation , alternatively it may encompass multiple sensations that are not well explained by a single physiologic mechanism . to investigate whether breathlessness experienced by patients represents more than one sensation , we studied 53 patients with one of the following seven conditions : pulmonary vascular disease , neuromuscular and chest wall disease , congestive heart failure , pregnancy , interstitial lung disease , asthma , and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . patients were asked to choose descriptions of their sensation ( s ) of breathlessness from a dyspnea questionnaire listing 19 descriptors . cluster analysis was used to identify natural groupings among the chosen descriptors . we found that patients could distinguish different sensations of breathlessness . in addition , we found an association between certain groups of descriptors and specific conditions producing dyspnea . these findings concur with those in an earlier study in normal volunteers in whom dyspnea was induced by various stimuli . we conclude that different types of dyspnea exist in patients with a variety of cardiopulmonary abnormalities . furthermore , different mechanisms may mediate these various sensations . 
dissecting aneurysm of the pulmonary artery with pulmonary hypertension . pulmonary artery dissection was observed in a 64-yr-old female patient with severe pulmonary hypertension , which was probably primary ( pulmonary vascular resistance , 817 dyn.s.cm-5 ; normal range less than or equal to 200 dyn.s.cm-5 ) . the patient was admitted to the hospital because of severe dyspnea on exertion . echocardiography demonstrated a dissecting aneurysm of the pulmonary artery . right heart catheterization revealed severe pulmonary hypertension ( mean pulmonary artery pressure , 64 mm hg ; normal range , 10 to 22 mm hg ) ; dissection of the pulmonary artery was confirmed by pulmonary arteriography . one-year follow-up was uneventful . in the literature , 28 patients with dissecting aneurysm of the pulmonary artery are reviewed . the dissection has only been diagnosed in life in one patient ( by echocardiography ) . 
ponderal index as a predictor of postoperative complications . four hundred sixty-eight patients undergoing elective surgery were prospectively followed for the development of postoperative complications . there was a trend toward increasing complication rate with a lower ponderal index . however , lower ponderal indices were associated with increasing rates of diabetes mellitus and hypertension . of these patients , forty cases with postoperative complications were matched to 40 control cases for sex , age , concomitant illness and operation performed . the cases of postoperative complications had a statistically significantly lower ponderal index than the controls ( 11.98 versus 12.43 ) . the increased risk of postoperative complications in those patients with a ponderal index of less than 11 was 3.36 , and less than 13 was 3.44 . surgeons who treated patients with lower ponderal indices need to have a high index of suspicion for the development of postoperative complications in these patients . 
lower extremity revascularization via the lateral plantar artery . lower extremity bypass grafts to the tibial and crural arteries are commonly employed to treat patients with atherosclerotic limb-threatening ischemia . although occasional series have mentioned bypasses to a plantar artery , few of these specifically examine the results of arterial reconstructions using these vessels . six patients underwent femoral to lateral plantar artery ( lpa ) bypass within a 19-month period for gangrene of the forefoot . there was one early graft failure and in the five completely autogenous reconstructions , graft patency and limb salvage had been achieved during a follow-up ranging from three to 22 months . the lpa is an acceptable site for anastomosis of lower extremity bypass grafts and the early results presented herein support its more liberal use when proximal sites are unavailable . 
normal angiograms and carotid pathology . nonstenotic ulcerated atherosclerotic plaques of the carotid arteries may be associated with symptoms of transient ischemic attacks , amaurosis fugax , and stroke . preoperative evaluation of patients with these symptoms has traditionally included ultrasound and arch aortography angiograms of the area of the carotid bifurcation . recent evidence has shown that ultrasound is more accurate in detection and morphologic delineation of these nonstenotic lesions . we analyzed the hospital records of 21 patients with ultrasonographic evidence of disease in whom arteriograms were negative . the patient group comprised 15 men and six women , with an average of 66 years . all patients had symptoms of hemispheric transient ischemic attacks and were evaluated with b-mode ultrasound and arteriography . ultrasound was positive and arteriogram " negative " in all of the patients ( i.e. , described by the radiologist as without hemodynamic significant disease or ulceration , or as normal ) . the ultrasound diagnosis was confirmed at operation with findings of 20 to 50 per cent stenosis and ulcerative plaques . at retrospective review of the arteriograms , three ulcerations were found in the 21 patients . we conclude that b-mode ultrasound better defines nonstenotic ulcerative lesions and decisions to perform carotid endarterectomy may be based on either positive test . an ulcerative plaque by b-mode ultrasound and appropriate symptoms , therefore , may not require angiography before operation . 
carotid endarterectomy for elderly patients : predicting complications objective : to determine whether the complication or death rate from carotid endarterectomy can be predicted from hospital and physician structural variables , such as the hospital 's teaching status or the number of endarterectomies done by the surgeon per year . design : survey of medical records . after controlling for the severity of the patient 's condition on the basis of data in the medical record at the time of the endarterectomy , regression analyses were used to predict the postoperative stroke , heart attack , and 30-day death rate as a function of patient , physician , and hospital characteristics . setting : three geographic areas ( states or large parts of states ; average population , 3 million ) in the united states . patients : random sample of 1302 patients 65 years of age or older having carotid endarterectomy in 1981 . intervention : carotid endarterectomy . measurements and main results : of 1302 patients , 11.3 % had a postoperative stroke or heart attack or died within 30 days of the operation . patient age , race , income , and gender ; physician volume , board certification status , and age ; and hospital size , for-profit status , ownership , and teaching status were not significantly related to the postoperative complication or death rate . if the surgeon was a graduate of a foreign , but not a western european or canadian , medical school , however , the average complication or death rate rose from 10.4 % to 19.6 % ( p less than 0.05 ) . conclusions : the effectiveness of carotid endarterectomy depends heavily on its complication rate . because complications after surgery can not , in general , be predicted from structural variables , referring physicians can not rely solely on the surgeon 's experience and qualifications when recommending a carotid endarterectomy . the surgeon 's and the hospital 's actual postoperative complication and death rate should be considered . 
serum and tissue magnesium concentrations in patients with heart failure and serious ventricular arrhythmias . objective : to compare magnesium concentrations in serum and tissue from patients with heart failure . two groups of patients were compared , those with or without serious ventricular arrhythmias . design : consecutive enrollment . blinded laboratory analyses . setting : referral inpatient service of the cardiology division of a university hospital . patients : twenty-three patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and mild to moderately severe congestive heart failure ( new york heart association functional class ii to iv ) were divided into two groups : 9 patients with sustained ventricular tachycardias and 14 patients without serious ventricular arrhythmias ( control ) . interventions : medications for heart failure were withdrawn 12 hours or more before study . antiarrhythmic therapy was continued throughout the study . measurements and main results : the patients had skeletal muscle biopsies , myocardial biopsies , and blood sampling for the analysis of magnesium concentrations . no statistically significant differences in the mean magnesium concentrations in serum , circulating mononuclear cells , skeletal muscle , and myocardium were found when the 9 patients with ventricular arrhythmias were compared with the 14 control patients without serious ventricular arrhythmias . conclusions : in a general , ambulatory sample of patients with heart failure , magnesium depletion in serum and tissue does not appear to occur more commonly in patients with serious ventricular arrhythmias than in patients without serious ventricular arrhythmias . 
high blood cholesterol in elderly men and the excess risk for coronary heart disease . objective : to determine whether high blood cholesterol is an important risk factor for mortality from coronary heart disease in elderly men . design : cohort study with a mean follow-up of 10.1 years . setting : a health maintenance organization . patients : the cohort included 2746 white men 60 to 79 years of age who had no self-reported history of coronary heart disease . measurement and main results : a total of 260 deaths occurred during 27,842 person-years of follow-up . the relative risk for mortality from coronary heart disease in men 60 to 79 years of age in the highest serum cholesterol quartile was 1.5 ( 95 % ci , 1.2 to 2.0 ) compared with those in the three lower quartiles combined . the relative risk did not change greatly with age , ranging from 1.4 in men 60 to 64 years of age to 1.7 in men 75 to 79 years of age . however , because mortality from coronary heart disease increased with age , the excess risk for such mortality attributable to elevated serum cholesterol levels increased fivefold over these 20 years , from 2.2 deaths per 1000 person-years to 11.3 deaths per 1000 person-years . conclusions : our results support those of other observational studies in elderly men . if treatment of high blood cholesterol is as effective in reducing cholesterol-related risk for coronary heart disease after 65 years of age as it is in middle-aged men , it might actually produce greater reductions in mortality due to coronary heart disease . a clinical trial is needed to confirm this extrapolation . 
cardiovascular effects of the somatostatin analog octreotide in acromegaly . objective : to determine the cardiovascular effects of the somatostatin analog octreotide in patients with acromegaly . design : prospective nonrandomized study . setting : referral-based endocrinology clinic . patients : seven patients with active acromegaly , three of whom had refractory congestive heart failure . the other four patients were free of symptoms associated with heart failure . interventions : all patients were treated with octreotide , 100 to 500 micrograms subcutaneously three times daily . the three patients with heart failure continued to receive cardiovascular therapy ( angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors , digitalis , diuretics ) . measurements and main results : during octreotide therapy , patients showed a rapid decrease in growth hormone and insulin-like growth factor 1 ( igf-1 ) : mean levels ( + / - sd ) fell from 28.1 + / - 32.7 micrograms/l to 5.2 + / - 8.3 micrograms/l and 740 + / - 126 micrograms/l to 372 + / - 64 micrograms/l , respectively ( p less than 0.025 ) . plasma volume returned to normal and heart rate decreased significantly . in the four patients without heart failure , right-heart catheterization done before and after 3 months of octreotide therapy showed an 18.3 % + / - 11 % reduction in stroke volume and a return to normal of the cardiac index . the three patients with congestive heart failure , evaluated before and after 40 days and up to 2 years of therapy , showed a dramatic clinical improvement that was associated with an increase in stroke volume ( by 24 % to 51 % ) . in these patients , the cardiac index remained in the normal range , filling pressures were markedly decreased , and pulmonary wedge pressure returned to normal . this improvement was sustained for up to 3 years in the two patients with heart failure who were receiving long-term treatment . conclusion : the rapid and sustained cardiac improvement seen in our patients shows that octreotide therapy for patients with acromegaly may be highly beneficial , even in those patients with advanced cardiac failure . 
selection of patients with acute myocardial infarction for thrombolytic therapy purpose : to critically review the current recommendations regarding the eligibility of patients with myocardial infarction for thrombolytic therapy . data identification : relevant studies published from january 1980 to january 1990 were identified through a computerized search of the english-language literature using medline and by a manual search of the bibliographies of all identified articles . study selection : all randomized , controlled trials of intravenous thrombolysis in acute myocardial infarction and unstable angina were reviewed . smaller , observational studies and previous review articles were included when relevant to the discussion . data extraction : key data were extracted from each article , including the proportions of patients eligible for thrombolysis , the reasons for exclusion from thrombolytic therapy , and the clinical outcomes of patients treated and of those excluded from treatment . the validity of certain exclusion criteria was examined using subgroup analysis from the large , randomized mortality trials of intravenous thrombolysis and observations from smaller , nonrandomized studies . results of data synthesis : to date , relatively few patients with myocardial infarction have been considered eligible for fibrinolytic therapy . in this group , both early and late mortality have been significantly reduced . patients excluded from thrombolysis , however , continue to have a high early mortality . the data suggest that the potential benefits of this treatment might be extended to selected high-risk subgroups . in particular , the risk-benefit ratio may favor the inclusion of otherwise healthy elderly patients ; certain patients presenting more than 6 hours after the onset of symptoms ; and patients with a history of controlled systolic hypertension or brief , nontraumatic cardiopulmonary resuscitation . the data do not support the use of fibrinolytic therapy as primary treatment in patients with unstable angina or suspected myocardial infarction in the absence of confirmatory electrocardiographic changes . conclusions : the full potential of thrombolytic therapy to alter the natural history of acute myocardial infarction can only be realized through the continued evaluation of selection criteria and the identification and treatment of the greatest possible number of eligible patients . 
effect of intravenous streptokinase on early mortality in patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction . a meta-analysis by anatomic location of infarction [ published erratum appears in ann intern med 1991 mar 15 ; 114 ( 6 ) :522 ] purpose : to determine the effect of intravenous streptokinase on early mortality in patients with suspected acute anterior and acute inferior myocardial infarctions . data identification : a literature search of english-language studies on the use of intravenous streptokinase in the treatment of suspected acute myocardial infarction for the period 1966 to 1989 using medlars ii and the bibliographies of relevant articles . in a number of instances , additional details on early mortality by location of myocardial infarction were provided by the authors . study selection : of 140 originally identified articles , 6 that specifically met our inclusion criteria were selected : randomized trials that used intravenous streptokinase in a dose of 1.5 million units , with or without additional agents , compared with a group that differed only by the absence of streptokinase . trials were selected by review of the methods section without regard for the results . data extraction : data were extracted independently by two observers using specific methodologic criteria for infarct location and early mortality . after they conferred , the observers agreed completely on the data . results of data synthesis : among the 9155 patients with suspected acute anterior myocardial infarction , the mortality rate in the control group was 17.4 % . in contrast , patients treated with streptokinase had a 12.5 % mortality . the mean risk difference was -4.8 % ( 95 % ci , -7.5 % to -2.1 % ) and the summary risk ratio was 0.72 ( ci , 0.65 to 0.79 ) . a total of 9650 patients with suspected inferior infarction had a mortality rate in the control group of 7.6 % [ corrected ] . the mortality for streptokinase-treated patients was 6.6 % . the mean risk difference was -0.8 % ( ci , -1.8 % to 0.2 % ) and the summary risk ratio was 0.87 ( ci , 0.76 to 1.01 ) . conclusions : intravenous streptokinase clearly confers a protective effect against early mortality in patients with suspected acute anterior myocardial infarction . the magnitude of this effect is on the order of a 5 % absolute reduction in risk of death by 21 to 35 days . for these patients , 21 need to be treated to save 1 additional life . for patients with suspected acute inferior infarction , the benefit of treatment on reducing early mortality is of smaller magnitude and less certain . these patients have an estimated absolute reduction of early mortality of approximately 1 % , which would require treating 125 patients to save 1 additional life . 
electroencephalography laboratory diagnosis of prolonged qt interval . patients with prolongation of the qt interval are at risk for significant neurological morbidity and mortality secondary to ventricular tachyarrhythmias . these patients frequently undergo electroencephalographic ( eeg ) examination to evaluate episodes of loss of consciousness , which may be associated with convulsions . electrocardiogram recording as a part of the eeg is a simple and common practice , but analysis for possible qt prolongation is not routinely performed by electroencephalographers . this is , in part , due to the fact that while calculation of the corrected qt interval is straight forward , a calculator is generally required . a nomogram that is presented simplifies determination of the corrected qt interval , facilitating diagnosis of prolongation of the qt interval in the eeg laboratory . 
intraoperative blood pressure . what patterns identify patients at risk for postoperative complications ? while monitoring blood pressure is a routine part of intraoperative management , several methods have been proposed to characterize intraoperative hemodynamic patterns as predictors of postoperative complications . in this prospective study of a high-risk population of hypertensive and diabetic patients undergoing elective noncardiac surgery , one objective was to compare different approaches to the assessment of intraoperative hemodynamic patterns to identify those patterns most likely to be associated with postoperative complications . twenty-one per cent of the 254 patients sustained cardiac or renal complications after operation . patients with more than 1 hour of greater than or equal to 20-mmhg decreases in mean arterial pressure ( map ) or patients with less than 1 hour of greater than or equal to 20-mmhg decreases and more than 15 minutes of greater than or equal to 20-mmhg increases were at highest risk for postoperative complications . together these two patterns had a 46 % sensitivity rate and a 70 % specificity rate in predicting postoperative complications . using 20 % change in intraoperative map produced results nearly identical to 20-mmhg changes . when the duration of 20-mmhg changes was accounted for , changes of a greater magnitude ( e.g. , 40 mmhg ) were not significant independent predictors of complications . the use of the mean difference from preoperative map was misleading because patients who experienced both high and low maps tended to have nearly normal mean maps , but high complication rates . the absolute magnitude of intraoperative maps , regardless of the preoperative levels , also was evaluated . the overall mean intraoperative map was not a significant predictor of complications . specific intraoperative maps ( e.g. , less than 70 mmhg and more than 120 mmhg ) also were evaluated . while neither was a significant predictor , there was a trend for increased complications among patients whose maps decreased to less than 70 mmhg . intraoperative blood pressure should be analyzed in relation to the patient 's preoperative blood pressure . prolonged changes of more than 20 mmhg or 20 % in relation to preoperative levels were significantly related to complications . 
surgical management of pheochromocytoma with the use of metyrosine . despite recommended preoperative preparation with alpha-adrenergic blockers , severe hemodynamic instability may occur during operations to resect pheochromocytoma . we combined the alpha-blocker phenoxybenzamine with the tyrosine hydroxylase inhibitor metyrosine in an attempt to better manage the hypertension of patients with pheochromocytoma undergoing surgical resection . this report reviews the cases of 25 consecutive patients undergoing surgery for known intra-abdominal pheochromocytoma . each patient had elevated serum or urine levels of catecholamines or their metabolites . nineteen patients were prepared before operation with phenoxybenzamine and metyrosine and six patients were given phenoxybenzamine alone . there were no significant differences in maximum , minimum , or mean blood pressure before or after tumor resection between patients who received metyrosine and those who did not . however careful review suggested that those who received metyrosine had more severe disease as judged by biochemical criteria . study of selected patients matched for age and severity of disease suggested that the intraoperative blood pressure management of patients prepared with phenoxybenzamine and metyrosine was facilitated . in addition metyrosine-prepared patients lost less blood and required less volume replacement during surgery than did non-metyrosine-prepared patients . there were no apparent differences in postoperative fluid requirements . although the study is not a prospective randomized trial , a retrospective review of patients managed with the combination of phenoxybenzamine and metyrosine suggests that surgery to resect pheochromocytoma can be better performed with both drugs than with phenoxybenzamine alone . the combination regimen appears to result in better blood pressure control , less blood loss , and the need for less intraoperative fluid replacement than does the traditional method of single-agent alpha-adrenergic blockade . 
does carotid restenosis predict an increased risk of late symptoms , stroke , or death ? the identification of carotid restenosis as an unexpected late complication of carotid endarterectomy has prompted concerns regarding its importance as a source of new cerebral symptoms , stroke , and death . to investigate these concerns , we analyzed a consecutive series of 507 patients undergoing 566 carotid endarterectomies , each documented as technically satisfactory . post-operative duplex doppler examination data at 3 days , 1 , 3 , 6 , 12 months , and annually thereafter in 484 arteries ( 85.5 % ) permitted classification of these arteries according to the most severe degree of postoperative stenosis : normal ( n = 306 ) ; 1 % to 19 % ( n = 89 ) ; 20 % to 50 % ( n = 40 ) ; more than 50 % ( n = 49 , including 8 occluded ) . the incidence of more than 50 % restenosis was 14.5 % in female and 7.7 % in male patients ( p = 0.003 ) . life table analyses to 10 years revealed a significantly greater life expectancy among those with restenosis ( p = 0.05 ) . stroke was also less likely in patients with restenosis , although this difference did not reach statistical significance . when survival and stroke were both endpoints , the likelihood of patients with more than 50 % restenosis remaining alive and stroke free was also greater than the less than 20 % stenotic group ( p = 0.03 ) . thus patients with carotid restenosis were less likely than patients with normal postoperative scans to have late symptoms , stroke , or early death . 
repair of supravalvar aortic stenosis : cardiovascular morphometric and hemodynamic results . supravalvar aortic stenosis is associated with normal systolic pressure in the aorta and its branches with the singular exception of the coronary arteries , which are hypertensive . this uncommon lesion has been treated by patch aortoplasty of several types . we examined hemodynamics and morphometrics in 13 patients who underwent operation for supravalvar aortic stenosis from 1979 through 1988 . they ranged in age from 2 to 43 years ( mean age , 14.5 + / - 3.8 years [ + / - standard error of the mean ] ) . there were no operative deaths . preoperative and postoperative ( 1 to 5 years ) catheterization or echocardiography or a combination of these was done in all but 3 patients ( 1 died late suddenly without a postmortem examination ; 1 was lost to follow-up ; and 1 has not yet been restudied ) . pressure gradients across the stenosis in patients treated with a single-sinus patch ( n = 4 ) were 65 + / - 18 mm hg preoperatively and 5 + / - 3 mm hg postoperatively ( p less than 0.05 ) and in patients with a bisinus patch ( n = 6 ) , 83 + / - 15 mm hg preoperatively and 6 + / - 2 mm hg postoperatively ( p less than 0.05 ) ; the two groups were not significantly different . measurements of the diameters of the coronary arteries , aortic annulus , and descending aorta were made , and calculation of the ratio of the coronary artery and annulus diameters to the descending aortic diameters both preoperatively and postoperatively was possible in 5 patients . the left coronary artery was larger than normal before and after operation . preoperatively there was a disproportionate increase in left coronary artery and annulus size during systole . left ventricular wall thickness decreased significantly postoperatively ( p less than 0.05 ) . repair of supravalvar aortic stenosis ( localized and diffuse ) by both single sinus and bisinus patch repair is safe and hemodynamic results are good . 
prognostic determinants in extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for respiratory failure in newborns . extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ecmo ) is becoming an accepted therapeutic modality for newborn respiratory failure , but there is little information available regarding the prognostic determinants with this technique . one hundred thirty-five newborns treated with ecmo over a 4-year period were critically analyzed with regard to the influence that birth weight , gestational age , age at initiation of ecmo , best blood gases before ecmo , number of hours on ecmo , renal failure , intracerebral hemorrhage , and long-distance air transport had on survival . infants with meconium aspiration and those undergoing long-distance transfer showed significant differences in blood gases before ecmo , with survivors having more normal ph and carbon dioxide tension values . intracerebral hemorrhage and renal failure that developed during ecmo were grave prognostic signs , with few survivors in either group . these data show that ability to ventilate patients before ecmo , giving normal carbon dioxide tension and ph values , is an important prognostic sign in infants with meconium aspiration and undergoing long-distance transfer for ecmo , whereas renal failure and intracerebral hemorrhage are usually lethal complications of ecmo . each center performing ecmo should continually reevaluate this invasive technique and its results and complications . 
correction of truncus arteriosus with truncal valvar stenosis or insufficiency using two homografts . surgical correction of truncus arteriosus requires the creation of right ventricular to pulmonary artery continuity and closure of the ventricular septal defect . a variety of conduits have been used including valved and nonvalved . despite a significant incidence of truncal valvar stenosis and insufficiency , this valve has seldom been replaced . we present 4 cases of truncus arteriosus with truncal valvar stenosis or insufficiency that were repaired using two valved homografts : one to create the pulmonary outflow tract and the other to replace the abnormal truncal valve . two of these patients are doing well after 4 months . another child survived the operation and did well for 2 months when she died suddenly . the last child died 14 hours postoperatively from low cardiac output syndrome secondary to diabetic hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . when truncal valvar abnormalities are present , the primary repair of truncus arteriosus in an infant should include replacement of the truncal valve . total correction can be successfully achieved using two valved homografts , resulting in long-term palliation and freedom from thromboembolic events and the use of anticoagulants . 
influence of prosthetic design on durability of the liotta porcine valve in the mitral position . from march 1979 to december 1984 , the liotta low-profile porcine bioprosthesis was employed for mitral valve replacement in 71 patients to avoid potential left ventricle-prosthesis mismatch occasionally observed with the standard , high-profile , hancock porcine xenograft . follow-up of 61 operative survivors showed at 10 years an actuarial survival of 67 % + / - 7 % , freedom from thromboemboli of 96 % + / - 2 % , freedom from structural deterioration of 63 % + / - 11 % and freedom from all liotta bioprosthesis-related complications of 53 % + / - 10 % . complications related to excessive protrusion of the stent into the left ventricular cavity were eliminated with the liotta bioprosthesis ; the peculiar stent configuration , however , was responsible for an increased rate of structural deterioration requiring reoperation in 10 patients ( 2.8 % + / - 0.9 % / patient-year ) at a mean interval of 76 + / - 18 months after mitral valve replacement ( range , 45 to 106 months ) . common findings in all explants were cusp prolapse , cusp tears , and commissural rupture related to various degrees of tissue calcification , constantly leading to severe prosthetic incompetence . as also shown experimentally , such structural changes have been attributed to increased systolic stresses on the closed cusps , favored by excessive reduction of the stent height . our experience shows that the liotta bioprosthesis used for mitral valve replacement does not provide any clear-cut advantage over standard porcine bioprostheses and that its long-term durability appears affected by the unique prosthetic design . 
clinical performance of st. jude and medtronic-hall prostheses : a randomized comparative study . newer and improved models of mechanical prostheses are regularly added to surgeons ' armamentarium . this study was designed to compare the clinical performance of two of the most used current models of mechanical prostheses . from august 1983 through july 1985 , 182 white patients were prospectively randomized to implantation of the st. jude medical ( 95 patients ) or medtronic-hall ( 87 patients ) prostheses . there were 84 mitral , 85 aortic , and 13 double ( mitral and aortic ) valve replacements . there were no differences between the two groups with regard to sex distribution , age , functional class , emergency operation , and site of implantation . early mortality was 3.2 % for patients with the st. jude valve and 5.7 % for those with the medtronic-hall ( p = ns ) . the survivors were followed for 3 to 5 years ( mean , 4.2 + / - 0.6 years ; cumulative follow-up , 559 patient-years ) . late mortality was 7.1 % / patient-year for the st. jude group and 3.2 % / patient-year for the medtronic-hall group ( p less than 0.05 ) . however , the valve-related mortality was equal ( 1.4 % / patient-year ) for both groups . noncardiac causes accounted for most of the difference between the st. jude and medtronic-hall groups ( 2.5 % / patient-year and 0.4 % / patient-year , respectively ) . there were no cases of thrombotic obstruction , whereas serious systemic thromboembolism occurred at the rate of 1.8 % / patient-year ( 5 episodes ) for the st. jude group and 2.5 % / patient-year ( 7 episodes ) for the medtronic-hall group ( p = not significant ) ; there were another nine episodes of systemic embolism that left no sequelae . three patients ( st. jude , 2 ; medtronic-hall , 1 ) , all of whom had aortic valve replacement , required reoperation ( 0.5 % / patient-year ) because of prosthetic endocarditis , with two deaths . 
clinical experience with the medtronic-hall valve prosthesis . medtronic-hall valves were implanted during 204 procedures performed between 1982 and 1988 . mean population age was 54.4 years ; 96 % of patients were in new york heart association functional class iii or greater . emergency operations constituted 16 % of the procedures . rheumatic heart disease was the single most common indication for valve replacement . in 18 % of patients , operation was performed to replace a previous prosthetic valve . the mean follow-up was 3.2 years . overall operative mortality was 10.3 % , the highest mortality being for double-valve replacements ( 24 % ) . valve-related mortality , by position , was 5.3 % for aortic valves , 6.0 % for mitral valves , and 4.0 % for multiple-valve replacements . actuarial 5-year freedom from events were : survival , 68 % ; thromboembolism , 90 % ; prosthetic valve endocarditis , 98 % ; paravalvular leak , 95 % ; and reoperation , 92 % . complications with the highest mortality were thromboembolism ( 36 % ) and endocarditis ( 33 % ) . the complication rates in this series are high but the patients were more severely ill than in other reports , and operative survivors experienced a considerable improvement in new york heart association functional class . 
aortic dissection with the entrance tear in transverse aorta : analysis of 12 autopsy patients . clinical and autopsy findings are described in 12 patients who had fatal aortic dissection with the entrance tear in the transverse aorta . the 12 patients represent 7 % of 182 autopsies of spontaneous aortic dissection studied by us . the ages of the 12 patients at death ranged from 37 to 87 years ( mean , 67 years ) . eight were men ; 8 had a history of systemic hypertension , and 10 had hearts of increased weight . diagnosis of aortic dissection was made during life in only 4 of the 12 patients . all 12 patients died of rupture of the false channel within 2 weeks of onset of signs or symptoms compatible with dissection . the direction of aortic dissection from the entrance tear was entirely retrograde in 4 patients , entirely anterograde in 4 patients , and in both directions in 4 patients . hemopericardium occurred in the first group , left hemothorax in the second group , and either in the last group . of the 8 patients in whom the ascending aorta was involved , the retrograde dissection in each extended to the aortic root , 6 had pulmonary adventitial hemorrhage , and 4 had involvement of the arch arteries by dissection . in the 4 patients with strictly anterograde dissection , none had dissection in the arch arteries . thus , tear in the transverse aorta causes a dissection that is usually fata , that often dissects retrogradely , and that may mimic dissection from a tear in ascending aorta . aortic dissection from a tear in transverse aorta requires early operative intervention . 
unusual opening of coronary sinus in atrioventricular septal defects . the coronary sinus is an important landmark for the position of the atrial component of the atrioventricular conduction axis and , thus , assumes special relevance to the surgeon in the operating room . we describe here 2 patients with atrioventricular septal defect characterized by an unusual termination of the coronary sinus within the left atrium . we discuss the potential importance of this finding to the disposition and surgical avoidance of the conduction tissues . 
myocardial preservation using lidocaine blood cardioplegia . prevention of ventricular fibrillation after aortic unclamping using lidocaine hydrochloride as an additive to cold potassium blood cardioplegia was studied prospectively in 46 patients undergoing elective myocardial revascularization . patients were similar with respect to age , ventricular function , severity of coronary artery disease , cross-clamp time , completeness of revascularization , frequency of internal thoracic artery grafting , systemic temperature at the time of cross-clamp removal , and mean infusate volume and temperature . patients receiving lidocaine blood cardioplegia ( group 1 , 23 patients ) had a significant reduction in the incidence of ventricular fibrillation ( 22 % versus 74 % ; p less than 0.0005 ) and in the mean number of cardioversion attempts required to defibrillate the heart ( 0.5 + / - 1.3 versus 1.9 + / - 0.97 ; p less than 0.0005 ) after cross-clamp removal compared with controls ( group 2 , 23 patients ) . there were no differences between the two groups postoperatively with regard to cardiac enzyme release , hemodynamic measurements , or clinical outcome . patients receiving lidocaine blood cardioplegia tended to have a lower incidence of new postoperative atrial fibrillation ( 9 % versus 26 % ) . ventricular function was preserved equally in both groups . we conclude that lidocaine is a safe additive to potassium blood cardioplegia and significantly reduces the incidence of ventricular fibrillation after aortic unclamping . 
timing of operation for aortic regurgitation : relation to postoperative contractile state . with angiography and pressure measurement , we determined left ventricular volume , wall stress , and systolic performance in 30 patients with aortic regurgitation before and after successful aortic valve replacement . end-systolic wall stress was greatly elevated preoperatively and decreased to normal postoperatively . systolic pump performance assessed as ejection phase indexes was severely depressed preoperatively and improved to normal or near-normal postoperatively in most patients . the ratio of end-systolic wall stress to end-systolic volume index ( ess/esvi ) , an index of myocardial contractility , was greatly decreased before operation . postoperatively , the ratio increased in all patients , becoming normal in 12 of the 13 patients who had a preoperative ess/esvi of 2.9 or greater . however , 15 of 17 patients in whom the ess/esvi ratio was less than 2.9 still had subnormal ratios , which indicates the presence of irreversible contractile dysfunction . stepwise multivariate analysis showed that preoperative ess/esvi was the only independent discriminator of postoperative normalization of the contractile function as assessed by ess/esvi . after aortic valve replacement , myocardial contractile state does not return to normal in a considerable number of patients . it is important to offer aortic valve replacement for aortic regurgitation before the chance for a good functional result is lost . the ess/esvi ratio may be a useful index in determining the timing of operation in patients with aortic regurgitation . 
prolonged extracorporeal life support of pediatric and adolescent cardiac transplant patients . options for mechanical support of pediatric patients with severe heart failure who are awaiting transplantation or have undergone transplantation are limited . this report examines 3 patients placed on extracorporeal life support ( ecls ) while awaiting transplantation and 3 patients who underwent transplantation and suffered subsequent heart failure due to rejection or postoperative myocardial dysfunction . the overall survival rate was 2 of 6 . the 2 surviving patients had a failing transplanted heart . there were no survivors among the patients placed on ecls as a bridge to transplantation . in each case a contraindication to transplantation developed before a donor heart could be obtained . the mean time of ecls support was 147.5 hours ( range , 70 to 370 hours ) . the ecls circuit did not affect cyclosporin levels or antirejection therapy . extracorporeal life support can be used to support pediatric cardiac transplant patients with biventricular failure due to acute rejection or postoperative dysfunction . although the results have been discouraging , ecls may still have a role as a bridge to transplantation . however , complications can develop during ecls that may preclude transplantation . 
pulmonary resection combined with cardiac operations . surgical management of patients with concomitant critical cardiac disease and resectable lung lesions is controversial . during a 7-year period ( 1982 to 1988 ) , 21 patients underwent combined cardiac and pulmonary operations . patients had cardiac symptoms only ; the lung lesions were found on preoperative chest roentgenograms . the pathological diagnosis was established in only 2 of the patients before operation . all underwent concurrent pulmonary resection during cardiac operations requiring extracorporeal circulation . the pulmonary operations included 17 wedge resections and four lobectomies . the final diagnoses in 8 patients with stage i non-small cell lung cancer included epidermoid carcinoma ( 4 ) , adenocarcinoma ( 3 ) , and bronchoalveolar carcinoma ( 1 ) . postoperatively , 1 patient required a permanent pacemaker and 1 patient died . the actuarial survival at 5 years for all patients who underwent combined procedures was 95 % . the 5-year survival for the 8 patients with lung cancer was 88 % compared with 100 % for those with benign pulmonary pathology ( p = 0.172 ) . this experience suggests that combining pulmonary resection with cardiac operations is safe and offers a favorable prognosis to a select group of patients . 
tension pneumopericardium as a complication of single-lung transplantation . tension pneumopericardium is distinctly uncommon in the adult population . we present a case of tension pneumopericardium as a complication of lung transplantation in a 54-year-old woman with thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension who underwent single-lung transplantation . 
catastrophic thrombosis of porcine aortic bioprostheses . hemodynamically critical thrombotic stenosis of porcine bioprosthetic valves in the aortic position without thrombotic predisposition is rare . two patients at our institution abruptly manifested thrombotic stenosis of porcine bioprosthetic valves in the aortic position within 3 months of implantation without apparent predisposing factors . clinicians should consider this rare but catastrophic complication in the appropriate setting . 
combined repair of transposed great arteries and total anomalous pulmonary venous connection . we report an unusual association of transposition of the great arteries and total anomalous pulmonary venous connection in the right atrium that was successfully repaired by a modified mustard procedure . 
circumflex artery ventricular fistula and pseudoaneurysm after mitral reoperation . prosthetic mitral valve reoperation complicated by atrioventricular groove pseudoaneurysm and circumflex ventricular fistula is presented . ligation of the circumflex artery during mitral valve replacement is implicated after review of a previous cardiac angiogram . 
new technique for the arterial switch operation in difficult situations . the technique described here , a modification of the aubert operation , avoids coronary reimplantation and also eliminates the need to use artificial material to transfer coronary circulation . 
postinfarction ventricular septal defect repair : retrospective thoughts and historical perspectives . evolution of surgical techniques for repair of postinfarction ventricular septal rupture initially involved differentiation of these lesions from prior experience with surgical approaches to congenital ventricular septal defects , which were in the main not applicable . second , understanding of the differing anatomical locations of postinfarction ventricular septal defects required innovation in terms of the location of the cardiotomy and type of repair necessary to achieve a successful result in any given patient . the gradual appreciation of different clinical courses pursued by patients after postinfarction ventricular septal rupture both in terms of location of the defect and the degree of right ventricular functional impairment has led to increased urgency relative to the timing of surgical repair . the incorporation of specific anatomical concepts of surgical repair and better understanding of the time course of physiological deterioration of patients can ultimately lead to an integrated approach aimed toward improved salvage of patients suffering this catastrophic complication of acute myocardial infarction . 
treatment of postoperative infection of ascending aorta and transverse aortic arch , including use of viable omentum and muscle flaps . postoperative infection of the ascending aorta and aortic arch in 40 patients was treated by antibiotic therapy alone ( 4 patients ) or by operation and lifelong suppressive antibiotic therapy ( 36 patients ) . complications of infection included antibiotic-resistant infection , infected false aneurysm , rupture of suture line , aortocutaneous fistulas , aortic-right ventricular fistulas , arterial embolus , aortic valve insufficiency , aortobronchial fistula , mediastinal abscess , and chest wall problems . these were treated by a variety of operations including composite valve-graft replacement , graft replacement , patch-graft closure of false aneurysm , simple suture of disrupted suture lines and false aneurysm , and debridement of mediastinum and chest wall . the area of reconstruction was covered , and mediastinal dead space was reduced by mobilization of viable tissue , including local tissue and distant structures such as flaps of muscle and omentum . thirty-three patients ( 83 % ) were early survivors , and 28 patients ( 70 % ) were alive and well at last follow-up 4 months to 6.5 years after operation . 
role of perfusion pressure and flow in major organ dysfunction after cardiopulmonary bypass . the role of perfusion pressure and flow during cardiopulmonary bypass with moderate hypothermia and hemodilution in the development of new postoperative renal or clinically apparent cerebral dysfunction was examined in 504 adults . cardiopulmonary bypass flow was targeted at greater than 40 ml.kg-1 . min-1 and pressure at greater than 50 mm hg . flows and pressures less than target occurred in 21.6 % and 97.1 % of patients , respectively . fifteen patients ( 3.0 % ) suffered new renal and 13 ( 2.6 % ) new central nervous system dysfunction . low pressure or flow during cardiopulmonary bypass , expressed in absolute values or in intensity-duration units , were not predictors of either adverse outcome . multivariate analysis identified use of postoperative intraaortic balloon counterpulsation ( p less than 10 ( -6 ] , excessive blood loss in the icu ( p less than 10 ( -4 ] , need for vasopressors before cardiopulmonary bypass ( p less than 10 ( -4 ] , postoperative myocardial infarction ( p less than 10 ( -3 ] , emergency reoperation ( p less than 0.002 ) , excessive postoperative transfusion ( p less than 0.02 ) , and chronic renal disease ( p less than 0.03 ) as independent predictors of postoperative renal dysfunction . independent predictors of postoperative central nervous system dysfunction were cardiopulmonary resuscitation in the intensive care unit ( p less than 10 ( -6 ] , intracardiac thrombus or valve calcification ( p less than 0.02 ) , and chronic renal disease ( p less than 0.03 ) . age greater than 65 years ( 40.7 % of patients ) did not predict either outcome . we conclude that failure of the native circulation during periods other than cardiopulmonary bypass rather than the flows and pressures considered here is the major cause of renal and clinically apparent central nervous system dysfunction after cardiac operations . 
ultrasonic debridement during mitral valve reconstruction for calcified mitral stenosis . an ultrasonic device in conjunction with open mitral commissurotomy was applied in 8 patients with heavily calcified , stenosed mitral valves . in 6 patients , reconstruction of the mitral valve by debridement of the leaflet calcification with the device was successful . two patients required valve replacement because of an increase in preexistent mitral regurgitation caused by excessive decalcification . the ultrasonic device proved to be a useful and effective adjunct for salvaging the heavily calcified mitral valve , which would otherwise have to be replaced . 
repair of flail anterior leaflets of tricuspid and mitral valves by cusp remodeling . we present an alternative approach to extensive rupture of the chordae tendineae leading to flail anterior leaflets . resection of the affected cusp segment , suture of the cut edges , and extensive plication of the segment of annulus devoid of leaflets abolished massive regurgitation while maintaining an adequate valve orifice . 
thoracic spinal fractures and aortic rupture : a significant and fatal association . we analyzed the frequency of occurrence of traumatic aortic rupture ( tar ) in patients with and without thoracic spinal fractures . among 4,676 blunt chest trauma victims admitted to the hospital between 1972 and 1988 , 148 ( 3.2 % ) suffered one or more thoracic vertebral fractures . there were 73 patients with one or more fractures of the first eight thoracic vertebrae ( t1 to t8 ) ; of these 73 , 4 also suffered tar ( 5.5 % ) . there were 4,603 patients without fractures of t1 to t8 , and 64 of these patients also suffered tar ( 1.4 % ) . this difference was significant by the chi2 and fisher exact tests , p = 0.00378 and p = 0.021003 , respectively . additionally , all 5 patients with tar and thoracic vertebral fractures died . we conclude that patients with one or more fractures of t1 to t8 have a statistically significant increase in the incidence of tar . 
cardioplegia-induced damage to ischemic immature myocardium is independent of oxygen availability . the known benefits of hypothermic pharmacological cardioplegia in protecting the ischemic adult heart may not extend to children . protection of the ischemic immature rabbit heart with hypothermic krebs-henseleit bicarbonate buffer is better than with hypothermic st. thomas ' ii cardioplegic solution . we investigated whether the availability of oxygen in the preischemic perfusate is responsible for the increased tolerance to ischemia of immature ( 7 - to 10-day-old ) hearts perfused with krebs buffer in comparison with st. thomas ' ii solution immediately before ischemia . after obtaining preischemic control data in the " working " mode , we perfused hearts ( n = 8 per group ) for 3 minutes with hypothermic ( 14 degrees c ) krebs buffer or hypothermic st. thomas ' ii solution saturated with 0 % , 25 % , or 95 % oxygen . this was followed by 2 hours of global ischemia at 14 degrees c. hearts were reperfused for 15 minutes in the langendorff mode and 35 minutes in the working mode , and recovery of function was measured . for preischemic oxygen concentrations of 0 % , 25 % , and 95 % , recovery of aortic flow in hearts protected by hypothermia alone during ischemia was 74 % + / - 9 % , 82 % + / - 4 % , and 99 % + / - 2 % of preischemic values , respectively . in hearts protected by hypothermia plus cardioplegia , the values were 69 % + / - 6 % , 72 % + / - 3 % , and 86 % + / - 5 % , respectively . thus , at equal oxygen concentrations , recovery of postischemic function was better in hearts protected by hypothermia alone compared with hypothermia plus cardioplegia . we conclude that factors other than oxygen availability are responsible for the damaging effect of st. thomas ' ii solution on the ischemic immature rabbit heart . 
five-year results of coronary bypass grafting for patients older than 70 years : role of internal mammary artery . despite numerous references to the superiority of the internal mammary artery ( ima ) over the saphenous vein for myocardial revascularization , its role in the elderly is still in question . from january 1984 through december 1988 , 1,081 patients older than 70 years ( mean age , 74.9 years ) underwent bypass grafting , 354 ( 33 % ) receiving left ima grafts based on the surgeon 's preference and 727 ( 67 % ) receiving vein grafts only . selection bias resulted in a higher incidence of known risk factors ( such as cardiomegaly , arrhythmias , left ventricular failure , wall motion abnormalities , and preoperative combined new york heart association/canadian cardiovascular association functional class iv ) in patients in whom the ima was not used . however , unstable angina , acute myocardial infarction , left ventricular dysfunction , and left main disease were not contraindications for using ima grafts . the operative mortality rate was significantly lower in ima patients ( 2.8 % versus 7.6 % ) . the actuarial 5-year survival rate ( standard error ) was higher in patients with ima grafts , 89 % ( 3 % ) versus 78 % ( 2 % ) , and postoperative functional class improved to a greater extent in ima patients ( 87 % of patients were in classes i and ii ) . arrhythmias and myocardial infarction were significant causes of late death only in patients with vein grafts . when patients are older than 70 years , patient selection factors clearly play an important role in the differential results between patients in whom the ima is used and patients in whom vein grafts are used . as in younger patients , excellent results can be achieved in the elderly . 
morphological and histopathological aspects of aneurysms after patch aortoplasty for coarctation . repair of coarctation of the aorta by synthetic patch grafting has been complicated by late aneurysm formation . these aneurysms differ macroscopically from atherosclerotic thoracic aortic dilatations . specimens for microscopic examination were taken from 14 of 20 patients undergoing aneurysm resection . histological analysis of the specimens showed medionecrosis in 13 patients of the specimens showed medionecrosis in 13 patients ( 93 % ) , foreign body reaction in 11 patients ( 78 % ) , and intimal thickening in 3 patients ( 21 % ) . the three layers of the aortic wall could be identified in the aneurysms . on the basis of these results , we discuss the etiologic factors and pathogenetic mechanisms involved in the development of these aneurysms . 
medical management of acute traumatic rupture of the aorta . surgical reconstruction is the treatment for acute traumatic aortic rupture and should be accomplished immediately in most patients . in patients in whom concomitant injuries or the development of life-threatening complications preclude safe and successful aortic reconstruction , pharmacological intervention to reduce the risk of free aortic rupture may be considered . surgical reconstruction can then be more safely performed under controlled elective circumstances . 
surgical epicardial ablation of left ventricular pathway using sling exposure we report our experience with 43 consecutive patients with left free wall pathways operated on since december 1988 using a modified direct epicardial approach through a medial sternotomy , without the adjunct of normothermic cardiopulmonary bypass . the left atrioventricular sulcus is exposed by dislocating the heart cephalad and to the right using a sling made of a large sponge passed around the ventricle through the transverse sinus . while the arterial pressure is monitored , the heart is positioned to obtain adequate exposure without compromising the ventricular function . the left atrioventricular junction is exposed using a direct approach . the epicardium is incised along the ventricular edge and a plane of dissection is identified and opened using blunt dissection over the ventricular wall . the entire left atrioventricular junction can be exposed . after dissection , electrophysiological testing is repeated to assess accessory pathway conduction . epicardial cryoablation was used when accessory pathway conduction was not present ( 42 patients ) . transmural cryoablation was used under normothermic cardiopulmonary bypass when accessory pathway conduction persisted after dissection ( subendocardial pathway ) . in all , cardiopulmonary bypass was not used in 41 patients . there was one early relapse that required transmural cryoablation . there were no complications . 
management of aortobronchial fistula with graft replacement and omentopexy . massive hemoptysis due to a recurrent aortobronchial fistula after repair of a thoracic aortic aneurysm developed in a 64-year-old woman . the infected aortic tissue was resected and replaced with an in situ dacron graft covered by omentum . the patient is alive and well 15 months later . 
aortobronchial fistula after an aortic operation . a 71-year-old man with a postoperative aortobronchial fistula was successfully treated . the fistula occurred between the left lower lobe and the descending thoracic aorta , to which a distal anastomosis of a temporary bypass graft had been placed during thoracic aortic aneurysmectomy 3 years before . for saving patients with this complication , early surgical treatment during episodes of intermittent hemoptysis is important . the use of an omentum pedicle flap for the isolation of the suture line is a important adjunct . 
management of mycotic rupture of the ascending aorta after heart-lung transplantation . a 19-year-old woman underwent heart-lung transplantation for obstructive bronchiolitis . eleven days later mycotic rupture of the ascending aorta occurred . emergency cardiopulmonary bypass was instituted via the femoral vessels and the chest was reopened under cardiac massage . perforation of the aorta at the site of insertion of the cardioplegic cannula in the donor aorta was seen . under circulatory arrest the infected area was excised , a pericardial patch plasty was performed , and the region was covered with a muscle flap . postoperatively , candida albicans was found in the excised specimen of the aorta , in drainage fluid , and in the bronchoalveolar lavage . high doses of antimycotics were administered intravenously and for irrigation of the mediastinum , which resulted in an eradication of fungi in all cultures 7 days later . six weeks after reoperation the patient was discharged home , and she remains well 9 months postoperatively . 
malignant thymoma presenting as intracardiac tumor and superior vena caval obstruction . a case of malignant thymoma with intracardiac infiltration and intrinsic superior vena caval obstruction due to the tumor is reported . intracardiac invasion by a thymoma is rare and for this reason is believed worthy of a report . 
easy dissection of hard and thickened pericardium on constrictive pericarditis . the keys to successful pericardiectomy for constrictive pericarditis are early operation and as complete a pericardiectomy as possible . with the high-speed burr it is easy and safe to dissect the calcified pericardium and define the epicardium even in a small operative field such as the inferior or posterior portion of the heart . this method has the important ability to perform very complete pericardiectomy . 
the relationship between sex hormones and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels in healthy adult men . the objective of this study was to clarify the complex and uncertain relationship between endogenous sex hormones and high-density lipoprotein ( hdl ) cholesterol levels in healthy men . fifty-five healthy adult men were consecutively recruited from an ongoing cross-sectional study of cardiovascular disease risk factors from a lipid research clinic at the university of washington , seattle . subjects receiving medication were excluded . multiple linear regression analysis identified several factors that correlated highly significantly with hdl cholesterol levels , including alcohol intake ; frequency of strenuous exercise ; age ; levels of total cholesterol , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol , and triglyceride ; and carbohydrate intake . nearly 80 % of the heterogeneity in hdl cholesterol levels could be accounted for by these factors . despite finding significant correlations with factors known to influence hdl cholesterol levels , no correlation with estradiol level , testosterone level , or the ratio of estradiol to testosterone levels was apparent . in conclusion , endogenous sex hormones do not appear to influence hdl cholesterol levels in healthy adult men . alternatively , a large proportion of the heterogeneity in hdl levels in this group of men can be accounted for by environmental factors . the disparity between this conclusion and others may be partially due to differences in accounting for these confounding variables . 
epidemiologic features of asymptomatic cerebral infarction in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation . we performed unenhanced computed tomographic scans on 141 asymptomatic patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation . thirty-six patients ( 26 % ) had hypodense areas consistent with cerebral infarction . the majority of these were small deep infarcts , seen in 29 patients ( 21 % ) , but 13 patients ( 9 % ) had cortical or large deep infarctions . twelve patients had more than one infarct on computed tomographic scan . increasing age and increased left atrial diameter were the only clinical features associated with asymptomatic infarction . patients older than 65 years with a left atrial diameter greater than 5.0 cm ( n = 23 ) had a 52 % prevalence of asymptomatic infarction . patients younger than 65 years with a left atrial diameter less than 5.0 cm ( n = 38 ) had an 11 % prevalence of silent infarction . patients with only one of these risk factors ( n = 72 ) had a 24 % prevalence of silent infarction . infarction was more common in those with chronic ( 34 % ) as opposed to intermittent ( 22 % ) nonvalvular atrial fibrillation , but this difference was not significant . hypertension , diabetes , duration of atrial fibrillation , congestive heart failure , history of myocardial infarction , and echocardiographic evidence of left ventricular dysfunction were not associated with asymptomatic infarction . a history of hypertension was present in only 35 % of our patients with small-deep asymptomatic infarction , similar to the percentage in patients without stroke . asymptomatic cerebral infarction is common in nonvalvular atrial fibrillation . the association with enlarged left atria and the lack of correlation with major cerebrovascular risk factors suggests a cardioembolic mechanism . further study is needed to determine the functional and prognostic significance of these strokes . 
medical comorbidity of major depressive disorder in a primary medical practice . despite much speculation about the relationship between depression and medical comorbidity in primary care settings , few investigators have examined this issue empirically . using a two-stage screening procedure , we assessed 618 patients aged 18 to 64 years in an academic general medicine clinic . forty-one patients ( 6.6 % ) suffered from a current episode of major depressive disorder ( mdd ) . we compared this group with a 20 % random sample of nondepressed patients . while patients with mdd were younger ( mean age , 41.1 vs 47.2 years ) , they were assessed by the duke university severity of illness scale as having more severe medical illness . patients with mdd were more likely to have malignant tumors and " ill-defined conditions " than nondepressed patients . the 18 patients with mdd ( 44 % ) who were correctly diagnosed by their physicians had less severe medical illness than those whose depression was clinically undetected . a logistic regression model predicting mdd group membership included female gender , younger age , higher duke university severity of illness scale score , and more frequent inactive ill-defined diagnoses . these findings are consistent with assertions : ( 1 ) patients with mdd have more physical illness than nondepressed patients and/or ( 2 ) somatic symptoms and disability caused by mdd add to the burden of physical illness . 
acute autonomic neuropathy . two cases and a clinical review . acute autonomic neuropathy is an uncommon syndrome , usually affecting healthy young people . presentation is often dramatic and initial misdiagnosis is common . we describe two young women with acute autonomic neuropathy who presented with gastrointestinal involvement heralding widespread dysautonomia and review 26 additional cases of acute autonomic neuropathy from the english language literature . acute autonomic neuropathy can be primarily cholinergic without orthostatic hypotension ( 26 % ) or pandysautonomic ( 74 % ) involving sympathetic adrenergic functions . onset has been temporally related to viral syndromes in 20 % of cases , with autonomic deficits usually evolving over 1 to 3 weeks . gastroparesis ( 69 % ) and syncope ( 12 % ) are frequent presenting complaints . spinal fluid protein levels are often ( 75 % ) elevated in pandysautonomic subtypes . prolonged and incomplete recovery is the rule ( 60 % ) , with persistent gastroparesis and orthostatic hypotension . other specific diseases that occasionally mimic acute autonomic neuropathy include botulism , porphyria , amyloidosis , and paracarcinomatous neuropathies . acute autonomic neuropathy shares several clinical features with acute idiopathic polyneuropathy ( guillain-barre syndrome ) , suggesting an immune-mediated pathogenesis . 
thyrotoxicosis induced by topical iodine application . we describe an elderly man who was admitted with congestive cardiac failure and found to have thyrotoxicosis . he did not have goiter , and he had normal radioiodine uptake in his neck . serum iodine levels were elevated , explaining the lack of increase in radioiodine uptake in the thyroid gland . he had multiple pressure sores , which were treated with povidone-iodine ( betadine ) soaks . biochemical data were consistent with graves ' disease unmasked by topical iodine application . povidone-iodine soaks are commonly used in decubitus ulcer care and warrant special attention in patients with preexisting thyroid disorders . we have reviewed the literature on this unusual complication . 
lovastatin . warfarin interaction . two patients who developed hypoprothrombinemia and bleeding due to lovastatin-warfarin drug interaction are described . because of the wider use of lovastatin and warfarin , heightened clinical awareness of this potentially serious interaction must be publicized . therefore , prothrombin time should be monitored diligently when warfarin is prescribed to patients receiving lovastatin . 
evaluation of methods for detecting venous reflux . perspectives in venous insufficiency . using 793 limbs with nonobstructive venous reflux , we evaluated a number of techniques used for the assessment of venous reflux . the venous doppler examination was found to be a reliable screening tool with excellent sensitivity and good specificity . photoplethysmography was 97 % sensitive in patients with ambulatory venous hypertension ; however , in milder forms of reflux , it was less sensitive . the major drawback of photoplethysmography was the large number of false-positive results obtained . ambulatory venous pressure measurement and another pressure-based technique , valsalva-induced foot venous pressure measurement , defined overlapping but different normal and abnormal limbs . descending venography , when performed as described by kistner et al , was found to be a reliable tool to assess reflux with more than a 90 % sensitivity . the horizontal technique of performing descending venography and nucleotide descending venographies had unacceptably low sensitivity and were abandoned . features of venous reflux as outlined by these modern technical tools are described . 
the post-occlusive hyperemic response in patients with systemic sclerosis . we investigated post-ischemic hyperreactive cutaneous blood flow in patients with primary raynaud 's phenomenon and raynaud 's phenomenon secondary to systemic sclerosis ( ssc ) . reactive hyperemia was measured over a locally warmed area of skin , using a laser doppler flowmeter , following 5 minutes of suprasystolic occlusion of blood flow . we found that patients with primary raynaud 's phenomenon had normal post-ischemic blood flow compared with normal controls . in contrast , patients with ssc had reduced levels of baseline and peak blood flow compared with either the primary raynaud 's phenomenon patients or the normal subjects . infusion of carbaprostacyclin , a potent prostacyclin analog vasodilator , did not increase blood flow in the ssc patients , nor did it restore the reactive hyperemic response . these findings are consistent with the hypothesis that patients with the nonvasoconstricted condition of ssc have fixed structural defects that limit cutaneous microvascular blood flow . 
diffusing capacity of the lung and nifedipine in systemic sclerosis . lung involvement in systemic sclerosis may be due in part to a functional abnormality of the pulmonary vasculature . to investigate the possible role of a pulmonary vasospastic process in this disorder , 21 non-smoking patients who had no evidence of cardiac disease or pulmonary hypertension were evaluated with pulmonary function tests prior to administration of nifedipine , 30 minutes after a single oral dose of nifedipine ( 20 mg ) , and after 4 weeks of treatment with nifedipine ( 10 mg 3 times daily ) . treatment with nifedipine did not significantly change any of the pulmonary function values , except for the carbon monoxide diffusing capacity ( dlco ) . the linear trend between the individual dlco values at baseline and their changes immediately following the initial 20-mg dose of nifedipine ( r = -0.603 , p = 0.02 ) and after 4 weeks of treatment ( r = -0.636 , p = 0.01 ) showed that the lower the dlco value at baseline , the greater the improvement caused by nifedipine . these findings support the hypothesis of a potentially reversible pulmonary vasospasm in systemic sclerosis and suggest that nifedipine may be useful in the treatment of lung disease in these patients ; however , further studies are needed . 
igg and iga antibodies to the collagen-like region of c1q in rheumatoid vasculitis . we investigated the presence of igg and iga antibodies to c1q in serum samples from 80 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) , 31 patients with rheumatoid vasculitis , and 80 healthy controls . igg and iga antibodies to c1q , as measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay , were found in less than 5 % of the sera from ra patients and from healthy controls . in contrast , igg and iga antibodies to c1q were found in 29 % and 61 % , respectively , of the sera from patients with rheumatoid vasculitis . the occurrence of iga antibodies to c1q has not been previously demonstrated . these results also demonstrate that igg antibodies to c1q do not occur exclusively in systemic lupus erythematosus patients : sera of patients with rheumatoid vasculitis frequently contain igg or iga antibodies to c1q , which contribute to immune complex formation . 
prediction of pregnancy-induced hypertensive disorders by angiotensin ii sensitivity and supine pressor test . an angiotensin ii sensitivity test and a supine pressor test were done consecutively at 28 weeks gestation in 90 healthy , normotensive nulliparous women . none of the supine pressor tests was positive , applying the predefined threshold of a rise of 20 mmhg in diastolic blood pressure after rolling over ; nine tests were positive using a corrected 9 mmhg cut-off level . ten women had a positive angiotensin sensitivity test using a threshold of the effective pressor dose of 8 ng/kg/min ; 22 women were positive using an effective pressor dose of less than or equal to 10 ng/kg/min . later in pregnancy 12 women ( 13 % ) developed pregnancy-induced hypertensive disease ( pih ) . the specificity of both tests of predicting the development of pih was about 90 % . the sensitivity of the angiotensin sensitivity test at the 10 ng/kg/min level was 92 % . because of its low sensitivity of 25 % the supine pressor test appears to have no value for the prediction of pih . there was a significant positive association between angiotensin ii refractoriness and birthweight . 
development of antibodies to thrombin and factor v with recurrent bleeding in a patient exposed to topical bovine thrombin . a 65 year old patient who was exposed to topical bovine thrombin during cardiac surgery developed markedly prolonged clotting times and a severe bleeding diathesis . mixing studies with normal plasma failed to correct the clotting times . platelet transfusions , immunosuppressive and immunomodulatory therapies were ineffective , but plasmapheresis was effective in decreasing clotting times and in the resolution of clinical bleeding events . the patient 's purified igg reacted with bovine thrombin by immunoblotting and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) . however , the igg reacted minimally with human thrombin . in view of the severe bleeding , a coexisting inhibitor was sought . the patient 's factor v activity was 1 % of normal and was not corrected by mixing with normal plasma , demonstrating the presence of an inhibitor against factor v. the patient 's igg reacted with both bovine and human factor v. immunoblotting localized the site of antibody binding to the light chain of activated bovine factor v. detectable amounts of bovine factor v were found in commercial bovine thrombin preparations by elisa . the data suggest that patients exposed to topical bovine thrombin may develop antibodies to thrombin and factor v. anti-thrombin antibodies may mask coexisting factor v inhibitors responsible for clinical bleeding . 
atenolol in essential hypertension during pregnancy objective -- to determine the effect of atenolol on the outcome of pregnancy in women with essential hypertension . design -- prospective , randomised , double blind , placebo controlled study . setting -- hospital clinic . patients -- 33 women with mild essential hypertension ( systolic blood pressure 140-170 mm hg or diastolic pressure 90-110 mm hg on two occasions at least 24 hours apart ) consecutively referred to two obstetric medical clinics . four patients in the placebo group were withdrawn from the study : control of blood pressure was inadequate in two , one developed breathlessness , and one changed her mind about participating . the mean gestation in the 29 remaining women on entry to the study was 15.9 weeks . main outcome measures -- blood pressure and birth weight . intervention -- 14 women received placebo . 15 women received atenolol 50 mg daily initially , increasing until either the blood pressure was less than 140/90 mm hg or a dose of 200 micrograms daily was reached . results -- the mean blood pressure on entry was 148/86 mm hg in the group given atenolol and 144/86 mm hg in the group given placebo . during treatment the mean diastolic pressure was significantly reduced by atenolol compared with placebo ( to 74 v 81 mm hg ; difference in means ( 95 % confidence interval ) 7.0 ( 2.9 to 10.0 ) mm hg ) but the effect on systolic pressure was marginal ( 132 v 136 mm hg ; 4.0 ( -1.4 to 8.6 ) mm hg ) . babies in the atenolol group had a significantly lower birth weight than those in the placebo group ( 2620 g v 3530 g ; 910 ( 440 to 1380 ) g ) . conclusion -- atenolol given from the end of the first trimester in patients with mild hypertension is associated with intrauterine growth retardation . when taken in conjunction with the results of a previous study in which methyldopa was given these findings indicate that benefit is unlikely to result from treating mild essential hypertension in pregnancy . 
prevalence of symptoms of raynaud 's phenomenon in general practice . objective -- to investigate the prevalence of raynaud 's phenomenon in the populations of five general practices . design -- two populations studied . a questionnaire was given to all new patients attending five general practices over four weeks , and the same questionnaire was sent by post to a random sample of adults from two of the practices . setting -- general practices in inner london , merseyside , and cheshire . subjects -- 1532 patients who completed questionnaires ( 1119 who attended the surgeries ( response rate unknown ) and 413 respondents to the postal survey ( response rate 69 % ) ) . main outcome measures -- response to questionnaire on symptoms of raynaud 's phenomenon : patients were regarded as having the disease if they had episodes of blanching of the fingers that were precipitated by cold and accompanied by sensory symptoms ( pins and needles or numbness ) . subsequent interview and clinical appraisal of patients with the disease according to their responses to the questionnaire . results -- the prevalence of raynaud 's phenomenon was 11 % ( 26/231 ) and 19 % ( 34/182 ) respectively in men and women who completed the postal questionnaire and 16 % ( 56/357 ) and 21 % ( 157/762 ) respectively in those who completed the questionnaire when attending their general practice . thus the overall rates were slightly higher in women , but there was no effect of age even after adjustment of the rates for practice and method of survey . conclusion -- the prevalence of raynaud 's phenomenon is high compared with the low number of patients who seek treatment for the disease . 
resuscitation of patients with cardiac arrest by ambulance staff with extended training in west yorkshire objective -- to investigate the results of resuscitation of patients with cardiac arrest by ambulance staff with extended training in west yorkshire . design -- study of all such attempts at resuscitation over 32 months , based on the standard report form for each call made by the ambulance staff and the electrocardiogram that showed the initial rhythm in each patient . setting -- area covered by west yorkshire ambulance service . subjects -- 1196 patients with cardiac arrests attended by 29 ambulance staff with extended training . main outcome measure -- result of resuscitation . results -- the initial rhythm was asystole or electromechanical dissociation in 740 patients and ventricular fibrillation in 456 patients ; overall 65 patients survived to be discharged from hospital . sixty four of the 456 patients in whom ventricular fibrillation was the initial rhythm recorded , and 46 in whom ventricular fibrillation persisted after the ambulance staff arrived , survived . only one of the 740 patients who initially had asystole or electromechanical dissociation survived . factors associated with a greater chance of ventricular fibrillation occurring were : age less than 71 , the arrest being witnessed by a bystander , resuscitation by a bystander , the arrest occurring in a public place , and a response time by the ambulance staff of less than six minutes . for patients found in ventricular fibrillation a shorter response time was associated with improved survival but resuscitation by a bystander was not . additional skills learnt during extended training were used for 51 of the 65 patients who survived . conclusions -- ambulance staff with extended training can save the lives of patients with cardiac arrest due to fibrillation , though asystole and electromechanical dissociation have a poor prognosis and should perhaps receive little attention during extended training . 
current status of antitachycardia devices . with the limitations of currently available modalities for treating clinically important tachycardias , the role of implanted antitachycardia devices will continue to expand . the challenge of the future will not only involve continued technological advances but the socioeconomic impact of this efficacious but expensive mode of therapy in an era of increasing financial restraints . further studies to definitively prove the efficacy of more widespread use of antitachycardia device therapy will be needed . 
pathophysiological insights into the cardiomyopathy of chagas ' disease . the evidence gained from both human and animal studies of chronic chagasic cardiomyopathy suggests that the disease occurs as a consequence of several discrete and progressive pathophysiological processes occurring after infection , the ultimate expression of which depends on a host of unidentified factors . collectively , the infection-associated events compromise microvasculature function and result in hypoperfusion , with consequences indistinguishable from those observed in other , nonparasitological cardiomyopathic diseases secondary to hypoperfusion . therefore , chronic chagasic cardiomyopathy may share similar pathophysiological abnormalities with other chronic congestive cardiomyopathic states . 
catheterization laboratory events and hospital outcome with direct angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction to assess the safety of direct infarct angioplasty without antecedent thrombolytic therapy , catheterization laboratory and hospital events were assessed in consecutively treated patients with infarctions involving the left anterior descending ( n = 100 patients ) , right ( n = 100 ) , and circumflex ( n = 50 ) coronary arteries . the groups of patients were similar for age ( left anterior descending coronary artery , 59 years ; right coronary artery , 58 years ; circumflex coronary artery , 62 years ) , patients with multivessel disease ( left anterior descending coronary artery , 55 % ; right coronary artery , 55 % ; circumflex coronary artery , 64 % ) , and patients with initial grade 0/1 antegrade flow ( left anterior descending coronary artery , 79 % ; right coronary artery , 84 % ; circumflex coronary artery , 90 % ) . cardiogenic shock was present in eight patients with infarction of the left anterior descending coronary artery , four with infarction of the right coronary artery , and four with infarction of the circumflex coronary artery . major catheterization laboratory events ( cardioversion , cardiopulmonary resuscitation , dopamine or intra-aortic balloon pump support for hypotension , and urgent surgery ) occurred in 10 patients with infarction of the left anterior descending coronary artery , eight with infarction of the right coronary artery , and four with infarction of the circumflex coronary artery ( 16 of 16 shock and six of 234 nonshock patients , p less than 0.001 ) . there was one in-laboratory death ( shock patient with infarction of the left anterior descending coronary artery ) . 
an analysis of randomized trials evaluating the effect of cholesterol reduction on total mortality and coronary heart disease incidence . the primary aim of this study was to estimate the relation between cholesterol reduction and total mortality and coronary heart disease ( chd ) incidence . secondarily , the clinical issues of whether the efficacy of cholesterol lowering is dependent on the treatment modality , presence of chd at baseline , or the simultaneous introduction of other interventions was explored . all randomized clinical intervention trials of cholesterol reduction were used in an overview analysis of total mortality rate and chd incidence ; analysis was performed with weighted linear regression . the trials include those that used primary and secondary intervention , diet and drugs , and single or multifactor design . nineteen trials were analyzed for total mortality , and of the 19 , 16 were analyzed for chd incidence rate . net difference in cholesterol change between study groups was used as the independent variable , and the three previously mentioned dichotomous design characteristics were used as additional independent variables . for every 1 % reduction in cholesterol , an estimated 2.5 % reduction in chd incidence is indicated ( 95 % cl : 1.1 , 3.9 ) . with regard to chd drug trials tended toward better efficiency in cholesterol lowering than did dietary trials . with regard to total mortality , this efficiency was higher in secondary than in primary preventive trials . the efficiency was also somewhat dependent on the baseline cholesterol level . this study shows that cholesterol reduction is effective in lowering chd incidence , but cholesterol reduction must be at least 8-9 % to be effective in lowering total mortality . 
intermittent claudication , heart disease risk factors , and mortality . the whitehall study in the whitehall study , 18,388 subjects aged 40-64 years completed a questionnaire on intermittent claudication . of these subjects , 0.8 % ( 147 ) and 1 % ( 175 ) were deemed to have probable intermittent claudication and possible intermittent claudication , respectively . within the 17-year follow-up period , 38 % and 40 % of the probable and possible cases , respectively , died . compared with subjects without claudication , the probable cases suffered increased mortality rates due to coronary heart disease and cerebrovascular disease , but the mortality rate due to noncardiovascular causes was not increased . possible cases demonstrated increased mortality rates due to cardiovascular and noncardiovascular causes . this difference in mortality pattern may be due to chance . possible and probable cases still showed increased cardiovascular and all-cause mortality rates after adjusting for coronary risk factors ( cardiac ischemia at baseline , systolic blood pressure , plasma cholesterol concentration , smoking behavior , employment grade , and degree of glucose intolerance ) . intermittent claudication is independently related to increased mortality rates . it is not a rare condition , and simple questionnaires exist for its detection . the latter can be usefully incorporated in cardiovascular risk assessment and screening programs . 
sotalol versus quinidine for the maintenance of sinus rhythm after direct current conversion of atrial fibrillation this open , parallel-group study compares quinidine and sotalol treatment for maintenance of sinus rhythm after direct current conversion of patients with chronic atrial fibrillation . the patients from 15 centers in sweden were randomized to sotalol ( 98 patients ) or quinidine ( 85 patients ) after 2 hours of sinus rhythm after direct current conversion . according to primary efficacy assessment , 52 % of the patients in the sotalol group and 48 % of the patients in the quinidine group remained in sinus rhythm during the following 6-month treatment period ( ns ) . furthermore , 34 % of the patients treated with sotalol and 22 % of the patients treated with quinidine relapsed into atrial fibrillation ( ns ) . heart rate after relapsing into atrial fibrillation was higher in the patients treated with quinidine ( 109 beats/min ) than in the patients treated with sotalol ( 78 beats/min , p less than 0.001 ) . patients treated with sotalol were found to be less symptomatic at the time of relapse compared with relapsing patients in the quinidine group . in terms of safety , more patients were withdrawn from quinidine than from sotalol treatment ( 26 % vs. 11 % , p less than 0.05 ) , and sotalol was generally better tolerated than quinidine . twenty-eight percent of the patients treated with sotalol and 50 % of the patients treated with quinidine reported side effects ( p less than 0.01 ) . the difference was primarily a result of early ( within the first month of treatment ) gastrointestinal and skin side effects in the group of patients treated with quinidine . 
a controlled clinical trial to assess the effect of a calcium channel blocker on the progression of coronary atherosclerosis to determine whether calcium channel blockers influence the progression of coronary atherosclerosis , 383 patients age 65 years or less with 5-75 % stenoses in at least four coronary artery segments were selected at random within 1 month of coronary arteriography to participate in double-blind therapy with a placebo or nicardipine 30 mg three times daily . coronary events ( 5 deaths , 22 myocardial infarctions , and 28 unstable anginas ) occurred in 28 of 192 nicardipine patients and 23 of 191 placebo patients ( p = ns ) . at 24 months coronary arteriography was repeated in 335 patients . progression , defined as a 10 % or more worsening in diameter stenosis , measured quantitatively , was found in 147 of 1,153 lesions ( 12.7 % ) in 168 nicardipine patients and in 170 of 1,170 lesions ( 14.5 % ) in 167 placebo patients ( p = ns ) . ninety-two nicardipine patients ( 55 % ) and 95 placebo patients ( 57 % ) had progression at one or more sites ( p = ns ) . regression , that is , an improvement by 10 % or more in diameter stenosis , was seen in 140 of 2,323 lesions ( 6.0 % ) overall , with no significant intergroup difference . among the 217 patients with 411 stenoses of 20 % or less in the first study , such minimal lesions progressed in only 15 of 99 nicardipine patients compared with 32 of 118 placebo patients ( 15 % versus 27 % , p = 0.046 ) . in this subgroup , 16 of 178 minimal lesions in nicardipine patients and 38 of 233 minimal lesions in placebo patients progressed ( p = 0.038 ) . by stepwise logistic-regression analysis , baseline systolic blood pressure ( p = 0.04 ) and the change in systolic blood pressure between baseline and 6 months ( p = 0.002 ) correlated with progression of minimal lesions . this suggested blood pressure reduction may account for the beneficial action of nicardipine . these results suggested nicardipine has no effect on advanced coronary atherosclerosis but may retard the progression of minimal lesions . 
a prospective , randomized , double-blind , crossover study to compare the efficacy and safety of chronic nifedipine therapy with that of isosorbide dinitrate and their combination in the treatment of chronic congestive heart failure we performed a prospective , randomized , double-blind , crossover study to compare the efficacy and safety of vasodilation with the calcium entry blocker nifedipine with that of isosorbide dinitrate ( isdn ) and their combination as treatment for heart failure . twenty-eight patients with new york heart association functional class ii or iii chronic heart failure due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction were studied . all patients were maintained on a constant dose of digitalis and diuretics throughout the study . eight weeks of therapy with nifedipine alone or in combination with isdn resulted in a significantly higher incidence of heart failure deterioration necessitating hospitalizations and/or additional diuretics . twenty-four percent of patients required hospitalization during nifedipine therapy and 26 % required hospitalization during nifedipine-isdn combination therapy in comparison to 0 % requiring hospitalization during isdn therapy alone . the total number of heart failure-worsening episodes was nine among patients on nifedipine , three among patients on isdn ( p less than 0.09 versus nifedipine ) , and 21 among patients on nifedipine-isdn combination ( p less than 0.001 versus nifedipine , p less than 0.0001 versus isdn ) . premature discontinuation of drug administration due to clinical deterioration or other side effects occurred in 29 % of patients during nifedipine therapy , 5 % of patients during isdn therapy ( p = 0.05 versus nifedipine ) , and 19 % of patients during the combination therapy . a comparison of eight patients who demonstrated clinical deterioration on nifedipine with the remainder of the patients demonstrated no significant difference in left ventricular ejection fraction ( 0.24 + / - 0.06 versus 0.23 + / - 0.07 ) or maximal oxygen uptake during exercise ( 13 + / - 3 versus 14 + / - 2 ml/kg/min ) . 
inotropic effects of angiotensin ii on human cardiac muscle in vitro . the direct effects of angiotensin ii ( ang ii ) on human cardiac muscle were investigated using isolated trabecular muscles from failing and functionally normal hearts . atrial and ventricular trabeculae were studied . results demonstrated a positive inotropic effect of ang ii on human cardiac muscle . comparison of the effects of ang ii among groups indicated that the responsiveness tended to be greater in atrial and normal muscle compared with failing muscle . results of this study also demonstrated heterogeneity in the responsiveness to ang ii among human muscles , which was not correlated with patient age , sex , diagnosis , prior treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor , or heart function . a significant correlation between response to ang ii and response to isoproterenol was demonstrated in failing ventricular trabeculae , which may suggest that defects in beta-adrenergic responsiveness in the failing human ventricle are accompanied by a loss of responsiveness to ang ii . studies were extended to the syrian cardiomyopathic hamster and its control . a dose-dependent inotropic response occurred in normal hamster ventricular muscle but was significantly diminished in cardiomyopathic muscle . ang ii did not shorten the timing of contraction , and pretreatment with adrenergic-blocking agents did not shift the dose-response curve , indicating that the response was not cyclic amp mediated . this study demonstrates for the first time that ang ii can exert an inotropic effect directly on human cardiac muscle and confirms that there is a direct effect of ang ii on hamster cardiac muscle . the study further suggests , however , that the inotropic response to ang ii in cardiac muscle is heterogeneous and may be diminished by heart failure . 
functional chiral asymmetry in descending thoracic aorta to determine whether rotational blood flow or chiral asymmetry exists in the human descending thoracic aorta , we established the ability of color doppler ultrasound to detect rotational flow in a tornado tube model of a vortex descending fluid column . in a model of the human aortic arch with a pulse duplicator , color doppler was then used to demonstrate that rotational flow occurs first in the transverse arch and then in the proximal descending thoracic aorta . with the use of color doppler esophageal echocardiography , 53 patients ( age range , 25-78 years ; mean age , 56.4 years ) were prospectively examined for rotational flow in the descending thoracic aorta . at 10 cm superior to retro-left ventricular position , 22 of 38 patients ( 58 % ) revealed rotational flow with obvious diastolic counterclockwise rotation but less obvious systolic clockwise rotation . at 5 cm superior to retro-left ventricular position , 29 of 46 patients ( 63 % ) revealed rotational flow with a tendency toward systolic clockwise and diastolic counterclockwise rotation . at the retro-left ventricular position , 47 of 53 patients ( 89 % ) revealed rotational flow , usually of a clockwise direction , occurring in systole . our data suggest that aortic flow is not purely pulsatile and axial but has a rotational component . rotational flow begins in the aortic arch and is carried through to the descending thoracic aorta , where flow is chirally asymmetric with systolic clockwise and diastolic counterclockwise components . these data demonstrate an aortic rotational flow component that may have physiological implications for organ perfusion . 
abnormal blood pressure response during exercise in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . to investigate the incidence of abnormal exercise blood pressure responses in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ( hcm ) and the potential role of hemodynamic instability as a mechanism of sudden death , 129 consecutive patients with hcm underwent maximal symptom-limited treadmill exercise testing with blood pressure recording . four patterns of blood pressure response were observed . forty-three patients had significant exercise hypotension , with either a continuous fall in systolic blood pressure ( n = 5 ) from the start of exercise or a sudden fall in systolic blood pressure ( 20-100 mm hg ; mean , 40 mm hg ) from the peak value ( n = 38 ) , 23 patients had a normal response during exercise but an abnormal blood pressure response in the recovery period , and the remaining 62 patients demonstrated a normal blood pressure response . patients with exercise hypotension were younger ( 33 + / - 14 versus 46 + / - 14 years ) and more of them had a family history of hcm and sudden death compared with those with a normal blood pressure response ( 15 of 43 versus 6 of 62 patients ) . similarly , the 23 patients with abnormal recovery blood pressure responses were younger ( 43 + / - 16 versus 46 + / - 14 years ) and had a higher incidence of a family history of sudden death ( 10 of 24 versus 6 of 62 patients ) . left ventricular cavity dimensions were smaller in those with exercise hypotension , but 11 other clinical , echocardiographic , and arrhythmic variables were similar . to assess the mechanism of exercise hypotension , 14 patients who demonstrated exercise hypotension and 14 symptomatic patients with a normal exercise blood pressure response underwent invasive hemodynamic exercise testing . 
beta-adrenergic receptors in lymphocyte subsets after exercise . alterations in normal individuals and patients with congestive heart failure . dynamic exercise increases the number of beta-adrenergic receptors in mixed lymphocytes by a mechanism that is incompletely understood . in a set of in vivo studies , we have investigated the effects of dynamic exercise on the subset distribution of circulating lymphocytes and on the number of beta-adrenergic receptors in each of these subsets in two groups of patients . in healthy subjects , exercise increased plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine and caused lymphocytosis . whereas the number of thelper cells increased only modestly , the number of tsuppressor/cytotoxic and natural killer cells more than tripled . the number of beta-adrenergic receptors varied among subsets but was not significantly altered by dynamic exercise in any subset except natural killer cells ( 35 % increase , p = 0.0302 ) . in a group of patients with congestive heart failure , dynamic exercise increased plasma norepinephrine but did not alter plasma epinephrine and did not cause significant lymphocytosis . we did not detect any significant alterations of circulating leukocyte subsets or beta-adrenergic receptors in any of these subsets after exercise . a combined analysis of healthy patients and heart failure patients revealed a significant correlation between increases in plasma epinephrine and increases in circulating lymphocytes . we conclude that the exercise-induced increase in beta-adrenergic receptors of mixed lymphocytes is predominantly caused by a redistribution of circulating cell subsets that differ in their beta-adrenergic receptor number . this appears to be mediated by epinephrine rather than norepinephrine . 
airway hyperresponsiveness in patients with microvascular angina . evidence for a diffuse disorder of smooth muscle responsiveness . anginal chest pain in patients with angiographically normal coronary arteries may be caused by a limited coronary flow response to stress because of abnormal function of the coronary microcirculation ( microvascular angina ) . studies of forearm arterial function suggested that patients with microvascular angina may have a diffuse disorder of smooth muscle tone . because dyspnea is common in these patients and seems disproportionate to the severity of myocardial ischemia , we studied air flow ( forced expiratory volume in 1 second , or fev1 ) in the basal state and after methacholine inhalation to determine whether bronchial smooth muscle is affected in this syndrome . five of 36 patients with microvascular angina had a basal fev1 of less than 70 % of that predicted and did not receive methacholine . of the remaining 31 patients , 14 ( 45 % ) had a more-than-20 % reduction in fev1 after methacholine inhalation ( as much as 25 mg/ml ) , a response significantly greater than that of nine patients with heart disease ( 0 % , p less than 0.025 ) and 24 normal volunteers of similar age and gender distribution ( 13 % , p less than 0.025 ) . furthermore , the product of the methacholine dose inhaled and the magnitude of decline in fev1 from baseline ( methacholine response score ) was significantly lower in patients with microvascular angina than in normal volunteers ( 16 + / - 8.6 versus 22.2 + / - 3.7 , p = 0.026 ) . we conclude that airway hyperresponsiveness is frequently demonstrable in patients with microvascular angina ; these findings are consistent with our hypothesis that this syndrome may represent a more generalized abnormality of vascular and nonvascular smooth muscle function . 
prostacyclin and acetylcholine as screening agents for acute pulmonary vasodilator responsiveness in primary pulmonary hypertension . epoprostenol sodium ( prostacyclin ) administered intravenously is considered the standard for assessing the ability of the pulmonary circulation to vasodilate . at present , epoprostenol sodium is an investigational drug that has limited availability . in contrast , acetylcholine , also a pulmonary vasodilator , is readily available . therefore , we assessed the feasibility of using acetylcholine as an alternative to prostacyclin in testing for the capacity of the pulmonary vasculature to vasodilate . twenty-three patients with primary pulmonary hypertension ( mean pulmonary arterial pressure , 58.5 + / - 13.4 mm hg ) received incremental infusions of prostacyclin and acetylcholine to predetermined maximal infusion rates as part of a battery of vasodilator agents administered according to standard protocols ( mean , 5.4 + / - 1.2 agents/patient ; range , 3-8 agents/patient ) ; the administration of the different agents was timed to avoid synergistic effects . of all the agents tested , prostacyclin and acetylcholine were most consistently effective in evoking acute pulmonary vasodilation , and both seemed to distinguish patients capable of manifesting acute pulmonary vasodilation from those who were not . however , at maximal doses set by protocol , prostacyclin generally elicited a greater vasodilator response than acetylcholine . the difference in magnitude of response may have been due to use of prescribed dosages of acetylcholine that were submaximal . in other respects , the two agents were similar ; both were equally well-tolerated , and side effects were mild and resolved rapidly when the vasodilator infusions were stopped . we conclude that in the majority of patients with primary pulmonary hypertension , acetylcholine appears to be an effective and available substitute for prostacyclin in screening for pulmonary vasodilator responsiveness . 
effect of epinephrine and lidocaine therapy on outcome after cardiac arrest due to ventricular fibrillation . one hundred ninety-nine patients with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest persisted in ventricular fibrillation after the first defibrillation attempt and were then randomly assigned to receive either epinephrine or lidocaine before the next two shocks . the resulting electrocardiographic rhythms and outcomes for each group of patients were compared for each group and also compared with results during the prior 2 years , a period when similar patients primarily received sodium bicarbonate as initial adjunctive therapy . asystole occurred after defibrillation with threefold frequency after repeated injection of lidocaine ( 15 of 59 , 25 % ) compared with patients treated with epinephrine ( four of 55 , 7 % ) ( p less than 0.02 ) . there was no difference in the proportion of patients resuscitated after treatment with either lidocaine or epinephrine ( 51 of 106 , 48 % vs. 50 of 93 , 54 % ) and in the proportion surviving ( 18 , 19 % vs. 21 , 20 % ) , respectively . resuscitation ( 64 % vs. 50 % , p less than 0.005 ) but not survival rates ( 24 % vs. 20 % ) were higher during the prior 2-year period in which initial adjunctive drug treatment for persistent ventricular fibrillation primarily consisted of a continuous infusion of sodium bicarbonate . the negative effect of lidocaine or epinephrine treatment was explained in part by their influence on delaying subsequent defibrillation attempts . survival rates were highest ( 30 % ) in a subset of patients who received no drug therapy between shocks . we conclude that currently recommended doses of epinephrine and lidocaine are not useful for improving outcome in patients who persist in ventricular fibrillation . 
differentiation of ventricular tachyarrhythmias . implantable devices capable of several modes of therapy will require differentiation of various ventricular tachyarrhythmias . three methods of arrhythmia analysis , magnitude-squared coherence , ventricular rate , and irregularity of cycle length were performed for 45 episodes of induced ventricular tachyarrhythmia in 15 patients . differentiation of monomorphic ventricular tachycardia from polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation was possible by mean magnitude-squared coherence , less possible by rate , and not possible by beat-to-beat irregularity . faster monomorphic ventricular tachycardia overlapped with rates of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation . differentiation of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation was not possible by rate or irregularity . a progressive decrease in mean magnitude-squared coherence from monomorphic ventricular tachycardia to polymorphic ventricular tachycardia to ventricular fibrillation strengthens previous observations that coherence is a measure of rhythm " organization . " . 
adaptation to ischemia during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . clinical , hemodynamic , and metabolic features the clinical , electrocardiographic , and coronary hemodynamic responses to sequential 90-second occlusions of the left anterior descending coronary artery in 12 patients undergoing elective percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty were examined . transmyocardial lactate metabolism was examined in an additional group of seven patients with clinical and hemodynamic features similar to the first group . we noted that in comparison with the initial balloon occlusion the second occlusion was characterized by less subjective anginal discomfort , less st segment shift ( 0.44 + / - 0.13 versus 0.21 + / - 0.07 mv , p = 0.01 ) , and lower mean pulmonary artery pressure ( 25 + / - 1.0 versus 20 + / - 1.7 mm hg , p = 0.005 ) . in addition , for the same heart rate-blood pressure product , cardiac vein flow during the second inflation was significantly lower than that recorded during the first inflation ( 96 + / - 1.4 versus 83 + / - 2.4 ml/min , p = 0.005 ) . finally , there was significantly less myocardial lactate production during the second inflation ( lactate extraction ratio : first inflation , -0.11 + / - 0.03 ; second inflation , -0.03 + / - 0.02 ; p = 0.04 ) . we conclude that the lessened clinical , electrocardiographic , hemodynamic , and metabolic evidence of myocardial ischemia during the second of two periods of coronary artery occlusion during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty supports the concept of adaptation to myocardial ischemia ( ischemic preconditioning ) . 
intracoronary urokinase for intracoronary thrombus accumulation complicating percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in acute ischemic syndromes . intracoronary urokinase was used to treat flow-limiting intracoronary thrombus accumulation that complicated successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) during acute ischemic syndromes in 48 patients who were followed up through the acute phase of their illness . the study group comprised 10 patients with unstable angina pectoris , 18 patients with an evolving acute myocardial infarction , and 20 patients with postinfarction angina . the initial mean percent coronary diameter stenosis for the entire population was 95 + / - 7 % and decreased with initial ptca to 41 + / - 20 % ( p less than 0.001 ) , with improved corresponding coronary flow by thrombolysis in myocardial infarction trial ( timi ) grade . however , thrombus accumulation then resulted in a significant increase in percent diameter stenosis to 83 + / - 17 % ( p less than 0.001 ) ; a corresponding significant reduction in coronary flow also occurred by timi grade . after administration of intracoronary urokinase ( mean dose , 141,000 units ; range , 100,000-250 ,000 units during an average period of 34 minutes ) , with additional ptca , mean percent diameter stenosis significantly decreased to 34 + / - 17 % ( p less than 0.001 ) ; a correspondingly significant improvement in mean coronary flow by timi grade occurred to 2.9 + / - 0.2 . overall , the angiographic success rate was 90 % . there were no ischemic events requiring repeat ptca and no procedure-related myocardial infarctions or deaths before hospital discharge . one patient was referred for urgent coronary artery bypass graft surgery after a successful ptca . plasma fibrinogen levels were obtained in 15 patients , and in no patient was the level below normal for our laboratory . 
coronary atherosclerosis is associated with left ventricular dysfunction and dilatation in aortic stenosis . patients with aortic stenosis develop widely variable patterns of left ventricular hypertrophy and dysfunction . we postulated that coronary atherosclerosis ( cad ) may be associated with impaired left ventricular function and chamber dilatation in patients with aortic stenosis . left ventricular mass and volumes were quantified from two-dimensional echocardiography and correlated with coronary angiography in 78 patients with severe aortic stenosis and no previous myocardial infarction or regional wall motion abnormalities . eighteen patients ( group 1 ) had smooth coronary arteries , 25 patients had irregular coronary arteries with 50 % or less stenosis ( group 2 ) , and 35 patients had obstructive cad ( group 3 ) . even though the calculated valve area was similar in all three study groups , group 1 patients had higher values for ejection fraction ( 65 + / - 9 % , 51 + / - 17 % , and 48 + / - 13 % ; p = 0.0002 ) , systolic mass-to-volume ratio ( 9.2 + / - 3.9 , 5.6 + / - 2.8 , and 5.2 + / - 2.2 ; p = 0.0001 ) , and cardiac index ( 2.9 + / - 0.7 , 2.5 + / - 0.7 , and 2.3 + / - 0.6 l/min . min2 ; p = 0.015 ) than patients in groups 2 and 3 , respectively ( mean + / - sd ) . mean circumferential wall stress was inversely related to severity of cad . multivariate analysis showed that cad is an independent predictor of ejection fraction and mass-to-volume ratio in this group of patients . thus , in an elderly population with severe aortic stenosis , patients with both obstructive and nonobstructive cad have an increased incidence of left ventricular enlargement and systolic dysfunction . 
left ventricular regional wall stress in dilated cardiomyopathy . left ventriculography with simultaneous pressure micromanometry was performed in 11 normal control subjects and 17 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy ( dcm ) . left ventricular silhouettes in the right anterior oblique projection were divided into eight areas , and regional wall stress was computed by janz 's method in each area excluding the two most basal areas . wall stress was higher in dcm patients than in control subjects ( p less than 0.01 ) . the percent area changes from end diastole to end systole in each area were lower in dcm patients than in control subjects ( mean for six areas , 22 + / - 14 % versus 54 + / - 9 % , respectively , p less than 0.01 ) , but the coefficient of variation for the percent area changes in the six areas of the left ventricle in dcm patients was greater than that in control subjects ( 32 + / - 17 % versus 15 + / - 4 % , respectively , p less than 0.01 ) , indicating regional differences in hypokinesis . there was a significant negative correlation between end-systolic regional wall stress and percent area change ( r = -0.60 to -0.86 , p less than 0.05 ) in each area . thus , excessive regional afterload may play an important role in causing regional hypokinesis in dcm . 
body surface mapping of high-frequency components in the terminal portion during qrs complex for the prediction of ventricular tachycardia in patients with previous myocardial infarction . to study the clinical significance of terminal qrs high-frequency components for the prediction of ventricular tachycardia , an 87-lead body surface signal-averaged mapping was performed in 21 healthy subjects ( control ) and in 41 patients with previous myocardial infarction ( anterior , 20 ; inferior , 21 ) . mapping data were analyzed and averaged ( 129.7 + / - 26.5 beats ) for 160 seconds , and the signal-averaged beat was filtered with a bidirectional bandwidth ( 80-250 hz ) digital filter . j-point was determined from the 87-lead rms voltage of nonfiltered qrs . for each lead , we calculated the sum of the absolute value of filtered qrs from 20 msec ahead of the j-point to the j-point ( a-20 ) . the body surface distribution of a-20 was expressed as a-20 map . the maxima in a-20 maps were mainly located on the upper sternal region in healthy subjects , on the left anterior chest in patients with previous anterior myocardial infarction , and on the central anterior chest in patients with previous inferior myocardial infarction . in the patients in both the group with anterior myocardial infarction and the group with inferior myocardial infarction , the value of maximum was significantly greater than in the subjects in the control group ( 0.181 + / - 0.086 and 0.138 + / - 0.048 , respectively , vs. 0.075 + / - 0.031 mv.msec ; p less than 0.01 ) . in patients with myocardial infarction ( n = 41 ) , the value of maximum was significantly greater with ventricular tachycardia ( n = 11 ) than without ventricular tachycardia ( n = 30 ) ( 0.240 + / - 0.076 vs. 0.130 + / - 0.043 mv.msec ; p less than 0.01 ) . 
long-term results of catheter ablation of idiopathic right ventricular tachycardia ten consecutive patients with recurrent episodes of symptomatic , idiopathic , sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) originating in the right ventricle underwent an attempt at catheter ablation of the ventricular tachycardia . there were seven women and three men , with a mean age of 39 + / - 14 years ( + / - sd ) . none of the patients had any evidence of structural heart disease . the vt had a left bundle branch block configuration and an inferior axis in each patient , and the mean cycle length was 313 + / - 75 msec . based on the methods of induction of the vt and the response of the vt to verapamil , the vt mechanism was presumed to be reentry in six patients , triggered activity in three patients , and catecholamine-sensitive automaticity in one patient . sites for ablation were guided by pace mapping , and an appropriate target site was identified in the right ventricular outflow tract in each patient . from one to three shocks of 100-360 j ( mean total , 336 + / - 195 j ) were delivered from a defibrillator between the tip of the ablation catheter ( cathode ) and a patch electrode on the anterior chest ( anode ) . an electrophysiology test 7-9 days after ablation demonstrated that vt was still inducible in only one patient , who was treated with amiodarone . one other patient had a recurrence of vt 3 weeks after ablation and was treated with verapamil . eight of 10 patients were not treated with antiarrhythmic medications and have had no episodes of symptomatic vt during 15-68 months of follow-up ( mean follow-up , 33 + / - 18 months ) . there were no acute or long-term complications . 
area-at-risk determination by technetium-99m-hexakis-2-methoxyisobutyl isonitrile in experimental reperfused myocardial infarction in a canine model of reperfused myocardial infarction , we tested the hypothesis that after reperfusion , technetium-99m-hexakis-2-methoxyisobutyl isonitrile ( tc-mibi ) tomographic imaging still reflects occlusion blood flow when the tracer is injected before reperfusion . nine anesthetized dogs underwent 2 hours of coronary occlusion followed by 3 hours of reperfusion ending by being killed . reference coronary blood flow was determined by radioactive microspheres injected during occlusion and after reperfusion . biopsies in normal and ischemic myocardium and single photon emission computed tomography were obtained during occlusion and after reperfusion . circumferential profiles were applied to axial slices divided into 5-degree sectors . the sectors were divided into 3 groups selected on the occlusion acquisition ( normal , mildly reduced , and severely reduced ) and compared with the postreperfusion acquisition . tissular tc-mibi kinetics was assessed both by tc-mibi time-activity curves of normal and ischemic tissue obtained by biopsy and by the relative gradient between normal , ischemic , and necrotic postmortem tissue samples . in biopsy samples , tc-mibi content remained unchanged during occlusion and after reperfusion in normal as well as in ischemic tissue ( 4,662 + / - 2,237 counts/min/mg vs. 4,599 + / - 1,577 counts/min/mg in normal tissue , ns ; 941 + / - 903 counts/min/mg vs. 1,087 + / - 721 counts/min/mg in ischemic tissue , ns ) . in postmortem tissue samples , there was a good correlation between occlusion microsphere blood flow and tc-mibi activity ( r = 0.91 ) . in the necrotic samples , mean normalized tc-mibi activity ( 10 + / - 17 % ) was slightly higher than the normalized microsphere blood flow ( 3 + / - 3 % , p less than 0.001 ) but markedly lower than the normalized microsphere reperfusion blood flow ( 63 + / - 31 % , p less than 0.001 ) . comparing the single photon emission computed tomographic acquisitions before and after reperfusion , tc-mibi activity remained unchanged in normal as well as in mildly reduced or severely reduced segments . thus , our data are consistent with the hypothesis that tc-mibi traces blood flow , does not redistribute significantly despite reperfusion , and can be used for imaging the area at risk . 
effects of brief coronary occlusion and reperfusion on porcine coronary artery reactivity . the loss of coronary vasodilator reserve after ischemia-reperfusion may be due to endothelial injury , and this vascular dysfunction may contribute to functional alterations observed after ischemia . to determine whether endothelial dysfunction occurs after relatively brief periods of moderate low-flow ischemia in vivo , open-chest swine were subjected to 15 minutes of critical , subtotal left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion ( 80 % ) followed by 60 minutes of reperfusion . serial measurements of regional coronary flow were made with the radiolabeled microsphere technique . after 60 minutes of reperfusion , the left anterior descending coronary artery was excised together with a section of the normally perfused left circumflex coronary artery to examine in vitro the relaxations to the endothelium-dependent dilators adp and bradykinin and to the endothelial-independent dilators sodium nitroprusside and adenosine . contractions to serotonin in quiescent rings were also examined . endocardial and transmural blood flows recovered to preocclusion levels within 60 minutes of reperfusion , as did the epicardial-to-endocardial ratio . vascular responses in isolated , reperfused left anterior descending coronary artery rings were significantly different from responses in control left circumflex coronary artery rings . endothelium-dependent relaxations to adenosine diphosphate and bradykinin were significantly depressed in the left anterior descending coronary artery rings compared with left circumflex coronary artery rings ( p less than 0.05 ) . serotonin-induced contractions were significantly greater in occluded-reperfused left anterior descending than in left circumflex coronary arteries ( p less than 0.05 ) . relaxations to adenosine and sodium nitroprusside were not significantly different between the two groups . 
significance of discordant st alternans in ventricular fibrillation . with the use of epicardial mapping , we investigated the electrical alternans of the st segment during acute myocardial ischemia and studied the difference in st alternans between dogs with resultant ventricular fibrillation and those without it . during the 7-minute occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery below its first diagonal branch , 60 epicardial unipolar electrograms were recorded simultaneously at 1-minute intervals by a computerized mapping system . st alternans was found in the eight dogs we observed . the amplitude of st alternans ( difference in the st segment elevation of two consecutive electrograms ) was greater in dogs with ventricular fibrillation ( n = 4 ) than in those without it ( n = 4 ) ( 3.92 + / - 1.24 versus 0.58 + / - 0.49 mv , p less than 0.05 ) . three of the four dogs with ventricular fibrillation demonstrated discordant st alternans ( i.e. , adjacent leads were out of phase ) . results from the present study indicate that an increased amplitude and discordance of st alternans during acute myocardial ischemia are related to ventricular fibrillation and act as indicators of time and spatial unevenness of ventricular repolarization . 
restenosis after balloon angioplasty . a practical proliferative model in porcine coronary arteries . a model of proliferative human restenosis was developed in domestic pigs by using deep injury to the coronary arterial media . metal wire coils were delivered percutaneously to the coronary arteries of 11 pigs with an oversized , high-pressure ( 14 atm ) balloon and were left in place for times ranging from 28 to 70 days . during placement , the balloon expanded the coils and delivered them securely within the arterial lumen . light microscopic examination of the vessels confirmed fracture of the internal elastic lamina by the coil . an extensive proliferative response occurred in 10 of the 11 pigs and was associated with a luminal area narrowing of at least 50 % in all but one pig . the histopathologic features of the proliferative response were identical to those observed in human cases of restenosis after angioplasty . immunohistochemical studies confirmed the prominence of smooth muscle cells in the proliferative tissue . a similar response was obtained in two of five porcine coronary arteries in which balloon inflation only was performed , without coil implant . this model is practical and inexpensive and closely mimics the proliferative portion of human restenosis both grossly and microscopically . thus , it may be useful for understanding human restenosis and for testing therapies aimed at preventing restenosis after balloon angioplasty or other coronary interventional procedures . 
fibrinopeptide a is released into the coronary circulation after coronary spasm . to examine whether acute myocardial ischemia activates the coagulation system and platelet activation in the coronary circulation , we measured plasma levels of fibrinopeptide a and beta-thromboglobulin in the coronary sinus and the aortic root simultaneously in 15 patients with coronary spastic angina before and after the left coronary spasm induced by intracoronary injection of acetylcholine and in 15 patients with stable exertional angina before and after acute myocardial ischemia induced by rapid atrial pacing . fifteen patients with chest pain but normal coronary arteries and no coronary spasm served as controls . the coronary sinus-arterial difference of fibrinopeptide a increased markedly ( p less than 0.001 ) from 0.1 + / - 0.2 to 4.3 + / - 0.7 ng/ml after the anginal attacks in the coronary spastic angina group . however , fibrinopeptide a levels remained unchanged after the attacks in the stable exertional angina group and after intracoronary injection of acetylcholine in the control group . plasma beta-thromboglobulin levels remained unchanged after the attacks in both patient groups and after acetylcholine in the control group . our data indicate that coronary spasm induces thrombin generation and may lead to thrombus formation in the coronary artery involved , but pacing-induced ischemia does not activate the coagulation system . 
increased endothelin in experimental heart failure . recent studies demonstrate that endothelin , a potent endogenous vasoconstrictor peptide , circulates in plasma of normal animals and humans . however , the role of this peptide in pathophysiological states remains unclear . the present study was designed to test the hypothesis that circulating endothelin concentrations are increased in experimental congestive heart failure ( chf ) , a pathophysiological state characterized by activation of vasoconstrictor mechanisms . in anesthetized dogs with chf produced by 8 days of rapid ventricular pacing ( n = 28 ) , circulating plasma endothelin was increased compared with values for normal controls ( n = 28 ; 20.4 + / - 1.4 versus 9.7 + / - 0.9 pg/ml , respectively ; p less than 0.0001 ) . a plasma endothelin level of more than 14.0 was a sensitive and specific indicator of significant chf . moreover , within the group with experimental chf , right atrial pressure and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure correlated independently with circulating endothelin levels . based on recent studies demonstrating the physiological actions of twofold increases in circulating endothelin , as observed in the present study , a possible role for endothelin in the pathophysiology of chf is advanced . 
neurologic complications in chronic renal failure : a retrospective study . we have retrospectively examined 324 patients with chronic renal failure and evaluated the probable underlying causes of neurologic complications , laboratory data and therapeutic interventions . the common neurologic problems in our patients were alterations in consciousness ( 40.7 % ) and convulsions ( 35.1 % ) . when bun concentration was above 135 mg/dl and creatinine clearance was below 8 m/min/1 .73 m2 , alteration of consciousness was observed and when bun concentration was 200 mg/dl and creatinine clearance was below 7 m/min/1 .73 m2 , abnormal convulsives appeared . changes in deep tendon reflexes and pathologic reflexes were associated with hypertension . all of the patients with cortical atrophy using computerized cranial tomography aluminum hydroxide at least for 18 months , and six of them had hemodialysis . fourteen patients who underwent dialysis developed convulsions and were thought to have disequilibrium syndrome . these findings are consistent with the suggestion that the metabolic and biochemical derangements associated with crf may be particularly detrimental to the still developing cns of the child . 
role of cytochrome p-450 in reperfusion injury of the rabbit lung . reactive oxygen species are a major cause of damage occurring in ischemic tissue after reperfusion . during reperfusion transitional metals such as iron are required for reactive oxygen species to mediate their major toxic effects . xanthine oxidase is an important source of reactive oxygen species during ischemia-reperfusion injury , but not in all organs or species . because cytochrome p-450 enzymes are an important pulmonary source of superoxide anion ( o2 - . ) generation under basal conditions and during hyperoxia , and provide iron catalysts necessary for hydroxyl radical ( . oh ) formation and propagation of lipid peroxidation , we postulated that cytochrome p-450 might have a potential role in mediating ischemia-reperfusion injury . in this report , we explored the role of cytochrome p-450 enzymes in a rabbit model of reperfusion lung injury . the p-450 inhibitors 8-methoxypsoralen , piperonyl butoxide , and cimetidine markedly decreased lung edema from transvascular fluid flux . cimetidine prevented the reperfusion-related increase in lung microvascular permeability , as measured by movement of 125i-albumin from the vascular space into lung water and alveolar fluid . p-450 inhibitors also prevented the increase in lung tissue levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive products in the model . p-450 inhibitors did not block enhanced o2 - . generation by ischemic reperfused lungs , measured by in vivo reduction of succinylated ferricytochrome c in lung perfusate , but did prevent the increase in non-protein-bound low molecular weight chelates of iron after reperfusion . thus , cytochrome p-450 enzymes are not likely a major source of enhanced o2 - . generation , but serve as an important source of iron in mediating oxidant injury to the rabbit lung during reperfusion . these results suggest an important role of cytochrome p-450 in reperfusion injury to the lung and suggest potential new therapies for the disorder . 
noncoordinate regulation of alpha-1 adrenoreceptor coupling and reexpression of alpha skeletal actin in myocardial infarction-induced left ventricular failure in rats . to determine the effects of myocardial infarction-induced left ventricular failure on the regulation of surface alpha-1 adrenoreceptors and signal transduction , large infarcts were produced in rats and the animals killed seven days later . after the documentation of impaired left ventricular pump performance , radioligand binding studies of the alpha-1 adrenoreceptor , norepinephrine-stimulated phosphoinositol turnover , and adp ribosylation of 41 kd substrate by pertussis toxin were examined in the hypertrophying unaffected myocardium . moreover , the expression of sarcomeric actin isoforms was analyzed by northern blots and hybridization with specific oligonucleotide probes . alpha-1 adrenoreceptor density was found not to be altered in membranes obtained from the spared left ventricular tissue , whereas phosphoinositol turnover was increased 3.1-fold in the viable myocytes of infarcted hearts . furthermore , pertussis toxin substrate was augmented 2.5-fold in membranes prepared from the surviving left ventricular myocardium . finally , an upregulation of the skeletal actin isoform was detected in the tissue of the failing left ventricle . in conclusion , the possibility is raised that in the presence of severe myocardial dysfunction and ongoing reactive hypertrophy , effector pathways linked to the alpha-1 adrenoreceptor may stimulate the myocyte hypertrophic response which would tend to normalize cardiac hemodynamics . the reexpression of alpha skeletal actin may be a molecular indicator of the persistance of an overload on the myocardium . 
transforming growth factor-beta activity in sheep lung lymph during the development of pulmonary hypertension . chronic pulmonary hypertension is associated with extensive structural remodeling of the pulmonary arterial bed . the structural changes in the arterial walls include increased production of extracellular matrix components and smooth muscle cell hypertrophy , changes that have been similarly induced by transforming growth factor-beta ( tgf-beta ) in culture . in the present study , experiments were performed to determine whether tgf-beta is present in sheep lung lymph , and whether tgf-beta levels were altered in an animal model of chronic pulmonary hypertension induced by continuous air embolization . several standard biological assays for tgf-beta activity were used for these determinations including soft agar assays , inhibition of epithelial cell proliferation , and a tgf-beta-specific radioreceptor assay . in each case , control lung lymph contained high concentrations of tgf-beta ( 100 ng/ml ) which required transient acidification for detection . samples of lung lymph from hypertensive sheep showed a transient and early two - to threefold increase in concentrations of latent tgf-beta . this activity could be partially blocked by tgf-beta antibodies . these studies indicate that sheep lung lymph contains tgf-beta and that the level of tgf-beta increases early during the development of pulmonary hypertension . thus , tgf-beta may contribute to the development of the structural changes in the pulmonary arteries that occur during the onset of chronic pulmonary hypertension . 
a mutation in the gene for type iii procollagen ( col3a1 ) in a family with aortic aneurysms . experiments were carried out to test the hypothesis that familial aortic aneurysms , either thoracic or abdominal , are caused by mutations in the gene for type iii procollagen ( col3a1 ) similar to mutations in the same gene that have been shown to cause rupture of aorta and other disastrous consequences in the rare genetic disorder known as ehlers-danlos syndrome type iv . a family was identified through a 37-yr-old female captain in the united states air force who was scrutinized only because many of her direct blood relatives had died of ruptured aortic aneurysms . the woman was heterozygous for a single-base mutation that converted the codon for glycine 619 of the alpha 1 ( iii ) chain of type iii procollagen to a codon for arginine . studies on cultured skin fibroblasts demonstrated the mutation caused synthesis of type iii procollagen that had a decreased temperature for thermal unfolding of the protein . the same mutation was identified in dna extracted from pathologic specimens from her mother who had died at the age of 34 and a maternal aunt who died at the age of 55 of aortic aneurysms . examination of dna from samples of saliva revealed that the woman 's daughter , her son , a brother , and an aunt also had the mutation . the results demonstrated that mutations in the type iii procollagen gene can cause familial aortic aneurysms and that dna tests for such mutations can identify individuals at risk for aneurysms . 
pathogenesis of hyperadrenergic orthostatic hypotension . evidence of disordered venous innervation exclusively in the lower limbs . the pathogenesis of hyperadrenergic orthostatic hypotension was studied in eight patients . correction of the abnormal orthostatic changes by an inflated pressure suit ( mast ) confirmed previous evidence of excessive gravitational pooling of blood in the leg veins . intravenous l-norepinephrine infusion raised diastolic blood pressure in the same relationship to the infusion-induced increments in plasma norepinephrine concentrations as in normal subjects , indicating normal arteriolar responses . contractile responses of the veins to infused l-norepinephrine were measured with a linear variable differential transformer ( lvdt ) . the venous responses of hand veins in the patients fell within the 95 % confidence limits of the responses of normal hand veins , as did the responses of foot veins in the seven normal subjects . however , foot veins of the patients with hyperadrenergic orthostatic hypotension , and both hand and foot veins of patients with " diffuse " autonomic failure , were supersensitive to norepinephrine , as reflected by a steeper slope of the regression of log ( norepinephrine infusion rate ) on percentage reduction in venous distensibility , and a significantly lower ed50 ( i.e. , norepinephrine infusion rate that induced 50 % reduction in venous distensibility ) . the findings suggest anatomical or functional postganglionic denervation of lower limb veins causing excessive gravitational blood pooling with consequent orthostatic hypotension in these patients . 
mapping of a functional autoimmune epitope on the beta 1-adrenergic receptor in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy . the presence and properties of serum autoantibodies against beta-adrenergic receptors in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy were studied using synthetic peptides derived from the predicted sequences of the human beta-adrenergic receptors . peptides corresponding to the sequences of the second extracellular loop of the human beta 1 - and beta 2-adrenergic receptors were used as antigens in an enzyme immunoassay to screen sera from patients with dilated cardiomyopathy ( n = 42 ) , ischemic heart disease ( n = 17 ) , or healthy blood donors ( n = 34 ) . the sera of thirteen dilated cardiomyopathy patients , none of the ischemic heart disease patients , and four of the healthy controls monospecifically recognized the beta 1-peptide . only affinity-purified antibodies of these patients had a inhibitory effect on radioligand binding to the beta 1 receptor of c6 rat glioma cells . they recognized the receptor protein by immunoblot and bound in situ to human myocardial tissue . we conclude that a subgroup of patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy have in their sera autoantibodies specifically directed against the second extracellular loop of the beta 1-adrenergic receptor . these antibodies could serve as a marker of an autoimmune response with physiological and/or pathological implications . 
adverse mortality experience of a southwestern american indian community : overall death rates and underlying causes of death in pima indians . as part of an ongoing epidemiologic study , the death rate and causes of death during 1975 through 1984 were determined in pima indians who resided in the gila river indian community ( gric ) in 1965 and later . death certificates were available for 677 of the 681 deaths . in 78 % of the deaths , the underlying cause recorded on the death certificate agreed with the cause determined after review of all available relevant records . the age - and sex-adjusted average annual death rate for the gric population ( 1639/100 ,000 ) was 1.9 times ( 95 % ci 1.7-2 .0 ) the 1980 rate for the u.s. all races ( 878/100 ,000 ) . in pima males , whose death rate was substantially higher than that of pima females , the age-adjusted death rate was 2.3 times that in u.s. males , all races . moreover among males 25-34 years of age , the pima death rate was 6.6 times that for the u.s. all races . diseases of the heart and malignant neoplasms caused 59 % of u.s. deaths in 1980 , but only 19 % of gric deaths . by contrast , the age - and sex-adjusted mortality rate in the gric pima was 5.9 times the rate of the u.s. all races for accidents , 6.5 times for cirrhosis , 7.4 times for homicide , 4.3 times for suicide , and 11.9 times for diabetes . tuberculosis and coccidioidomycosis were important causes of death in the pima , for whom infectious diseases was the tenth leading cause of death . the findings indicate that programs to improve the adverse mortality experience of the gric population should emphasize factors related to fatal accidents , alcoholic cirrhosis , homicide , suicide , diabetes mellitus , and infectious diseases . young pimas , especially the males , should be the primary focus of such preventive efforts . these findings and recommendations probably apply to many native american populations . 
is baldness a risk factor for coronary artery disease ? a review of the literature . a literature search identified eight articles containing data on both baldness and coronary artery disease ( cad ) . three of these articles described case-control studies that showed a positive relationship between baldness and cad when controlling for cad risk factors . three other case-control studies showed no such relationship , but these did not control for cad risk factors . the results of two cohort studies were inconclusive . insufficient data were available from these studies to analyze possible relationships between baldness and cad risk factors themselves . overall , the data reviewed suggest that a small risk of cad due to baldness may exist , but this risk is smaller than that of well-known cad risk factors such as smoking and hypertension . future research should emphasize proper control for age and cad risk factors . 
protective effect of a novel calcium blocker , s-312-d , on ischemic acute renal failure in rat . the effect of the calcium blocker s - ( + ) - methyl 4,7-dihydro-3-isobutyl-6-methyl-4 - ( 3-nitro-phenyl ) thieno [ 2,3-b ] pyridine - 5-carboxylate ( s-312-d ) on ischemic acute renal failure ( arf ) was studied in rats . ischemic arf was induced by temporary ( 30-60 min ) clamping of the left kidney 2 weeks after contralateral right nephrectomy . plasma creatinine , creatinine clearance , urinary osmolality and fractional excretion of sodium were used to test the effectiveness of the drug . s-312-d ( 0.01-0 .1 mg/kg b.wt . i.v. ) administration before ischemia offered dose-dependent protection against the functional impairment induced by ischemia . this effect was accompanied by an increase in the survival rate of ischemic rats . s-312-d given after ischemia was not effective . the renal cortical edema induced by ischemia was significantly reduced by pretreatment with s-312-d . the increase in renal tissue calcium content observed after ischemia was also suppressed by s-312-d . comparison with other established calcium blockers indicated s-312-d to be a good candidate for protection against ischemic arf . these findings indicate that s-312-d may be clinically useful against renal ischemia . 
both d-cis - and l-cis-diltiazem have anti-ischemic action in the isolated , perfused working rat heart . the effect of diltiazem ( d-cis-diltiazem ) on the ischemic myocardium was compared with that of l-cis-diltiazem , an optical isomer having less potent calcium channel-blocking action , in the isolated , perfused working rat heart . ischemia decreased mechanical function and tissue levels of atp and creatine phosphate , and increased tissue levels of nonesterified fatty acids ( nefa ) , amp and lactate . reperfusion did not restore mechanical function , but restored incompletely the levels of metabolites ( except nefa ) that had been altered by ischemia . the ischemia-induced changes in nefa were prevented by d-cis-diltiazem completely and by l-cis-diltiazem incompletely . other metabolic changes induced by ischemia were attenuated by d-cis-diltiazem but not by l-cis-diltiazem . in heart pretreated with d-cis - or l-cis-diltiazem , both the mechanical function and the levels of metabolites recovered during reperfusion , the degree of recovery with both drugs being similar . these results indicate that not only d-cis-diltiazem but also l-cis-diltiazem has an anti-ischemic action probably due to inhibition of the tissue nefa accumulation . these results also suggest that the mechanism of the protective effect of d-cis-diltiazem on the ischemic myocardium is not entirely due to the calcium channel-blocking action . treatment with low ca2 + ( 1.0 mm cacl2 ) also attenuated the ischemia-induced changes . the interval between reoxygenation and start of function in the reperfused heart that had been treated with low ca2 + was significantly longer than that with d-cis - or l-cis-diltiazem . the effect of these isomers to shorten this interval may contribute to their common anti-ischemic action . 
interruption of critical aortoiliac collateral circulation during nonvascular operations : a cause of acute limb-threatening ischemia . in patients with aortoiliac occlusive disease interruption of critical collaterals during another nonvascular or cardiac operation may threaten limb viability . this occurred in four patients whose limb-threatening ischemia was precipitated by radical cystectomy with bilateral hypogastric artery ligation , left colon resection , or coronary artery revascularizations by means of the internal mammary artery . important collateral pathways , the interruption of which may account for this phenomenon , are detailed , and approaches are outlined for prevention and management of acute ischemia in this setting . 
atheroemboli to the lower urinary tract : a marker of atherosclerotic vascular disease -- a case report . atheroemboli to the lower genitourinary tract may serve as a marker for disseminated atheroembolic disease , a highly lethal condition . a case presentation and review of our institional experience is presented . 
one hundred percent oxygen reverses muscle hypoxia in a rat hindlimb model of acute arterial occlusion . significant morbidity results from extremity ischemia after acute arterial occlusion . reestablishment of arterial flow is considered to be the ideal treatment , yet substantial tissue loss can occur before this is accomplished . using a rat hindlimb model we investigated whether the administration of 100 % oxygen would decrease tissue hypoxia from acute arterial occlusion . adult male sprague-dawley rats were used , and po2 recordings were taken from the gastrocnemius muscle by use of an oxygen electrode . baseline muscle po2 was recorded , and then the femoral artery was occluded . repeat recordings were made after 20 minutes of ventilation with room air and after an additional 20 minutes of ventilation with 100 % oxygen ( n = 10 ) . control groups consisted of animals undergoing occlusion but continued on room air ( n = 3 ) and animals undergoing sham occlusion but receiving the period of 100 % oxygen ventilation ( n = 3 ) . femoral artery occlusion produced a reduction in muscle po2 from 28.0 + / - 1.4 to 6.1 + / - 2.0 ( mean + / - sem , p less than 0.001 ) . ventilation with 100 % oxygen reversed the tissue hypoxia produced by occlusion ( 27.3 + / - 2.0 , p less than 0.001 ) . the administration of 100 % oxygen without femoral artery occlusion resulted in a higher tissue po2 than the occluded + oxygen group ( 94 + / - 12 vs 27.3 + / - 2.0 , p less than 0.001 ) . mean arterial blood pressure increased in the experimental group concomitant with the administration of 100 % oxygen , but there was no correlation between final blood pressure and final tissue oxygen tension . 
end-stage renal disease -- is infrainguinal limb revascularization justified ? reports of reconstructive surgery for peripheral vascular disease have been relatively uncommon in patients with end-stage renal disease . between 1980 and 1989 , 39 patients with end-stage renal disease underwent revascularization of 56 limbs . fifty-two primary infrainguinal and four secondary infrainguinal bypass grafts were performed . in addition , nine thrombectomies were performed . at the time of surgery 37 patients were on dialysis ; three had functioning kidney transplants . the indications for revascularization were gangrene , rest pain , or ulceration in all except three limbs with disabling claudication . reversed , nonreversed , or in situ vein was used in 25 of the 52 primary infrainguinal revascularizations performed . polytetrafluoroethylene was used in 25 . two procedures used a combination of polytetrafluoroethylene and vein . the primary patencies for all infrainguinal procedures at 1 and 2 years were 77 % and 68 % , respectively . four perioperative deaths occurred in the infrainguinal group ( 7.7 % ) . an additional death occurred after thrombectomy for late graft closure . three deaths were a result of myocardial infarction . one patient on peritoneal dialysis developed uncontrolled sepsis . at 3 years 39 % of patients were alive , and 84 % of the limbs were salvaged . among the cases studied no group was identified that represented unacceptable operative risk . results compared well with reported patencies for patients subjected to infrainguinal revascularization procedures . limb revascularization in patients with end-stage renal disease may be performed by use of similar criteria to those used for other patients with peripheral vascular disease . 
transaortic endarterectomy of renal visceral artery lesions in association with infrarenal aortic surgery . the complexity of infrarenal aortic reconstruction increases when bypass grafts to revascularize associated renal and visceral arteries are needed . lesions in these vessels , however , are usually limited to their aortic orifices and therefore are amenable to retroperitoneal transaortic endarterectomy . a combined infrarenal aortic reconstruction and transaortic endarterectomy of the renal/visceral vessels was used in 18 ( 16 % ) of 120 patients undergoing elective infrarenal aortic reconstruction over a 2-year-period . transaortic endarterectomy was performed primarily for renal preservation in 11 patients with bilateral , high-grade renal artery stenoses and abnormal renal function ( serum creatinine greater than or equal to 1.9 mg/dl ) . in seven patients transaortic endarterectomy was performed as a secondary procedure during the course of complex reconstruction of aneurysmal or occlusive aortic disease . mean serum creatinine , which was elevated preoperatively in 14 ( 78 % ) patients ( 3.3 mg/dl ) , decreased significantly after the operation ( 2.0 mg/dl , p less than 0.01 ) . a single death occurred in the 18 patients undergoing transaortic endarterectomy . renal function preservation can be achieved by renal revascularization in patients with bilateral renal artery stenoses and decreased renal function . the retroperitoneal approach to aortic reconstruction and the use of transaortic endarterectomy allows correction of most renal/visceral vessel involvement in complex aortic revascularization procedures . 
combined aortic and visceral arterial reconstruction : risks and results . the indications , morbidity , and efficacy of combined reconstruction of the abdominal aorta and visceral arteries ( renal and superior mesenteric ; excluding suprarenal aortic aneurysms ) were analyzed retrospectively in 29 consecutive patients who underwent surgery from june 1984 through february 1990 . seventeen men and 12 women ages 32 to 76 years ( mean , 66 years ) were studied . follow-up was complete in all patients to either death or calendar year 1989 to 1990 ( mean , 31.9 months ; range , 2 to 66 months ) . all patients underwent bypass of angiographically proven severe lesions of one renal artery ( 19 patients ) , both renal arteries ( 8 patients ) , or the superior mesenteric artery and renal arteries ( 2 patients ) , in concert with synthetic distal aortic replacement for occlusive disease ( 10 patients ) or aneurysm ( 19 patients ) . indications for renal artery repair included severe hypertension in 13 patients , ischemic renal insufficiency in 8 patients , and lesion morphology alone in 8 patients . operative mortality rate was 3 of 29 ( 10.3 % ) , and each death was the result of multisystem organ failure . nonfatal complications occurred in 11 of the 26 survivors ( 42 % ) , and this group differed significantly from the uncomplicated 15 patients only in having a higher mean preoperative serum creatinine ( 2.5 + / - 1.1 mg/dl vs 1.6 + / - 0.9 mg/dl , p = 0.04 , t test ) . the mortality rate of patients with preoperative serum creatinine greater than or equal to 2.0 mg/dl , was 15.4 % ( 2/13 patients ) , compared to 6.2 % ( 1/16 ) in patients with creatinine less than 2.0 mg/dl . three late deaths occurred ( 2 stroke , 1 cancer ) . hypertension control improved in 64 % of patients overall , and in 7 of 9 patients whose major operative indication was renovascular hypertension . renal function remained stable or improved in 12 of 15 patients ( 80 % ) with renal insufficiency , but 3 patients progressed to require dialysis . long-term graft patency was demonstrated by angiography or on duplex scan in all studied survivors ( 21 patients ) . although operative risks are clearly increased compared to less complex vascular procedures , careful patient selection and management will yield a favorable outcome in most patients with such combined lesions . 
carotid-subclavian bypass -- a decade of experience . from august 1979 to august 1989 , carotid-subclavian bypass or transposition procedures were performed on 18 women and 13 men ranging in age from 19 to 75 ( mean , 58.2 ) years . indications for surgery included symptoms of vertebrobasilar insufficiency in 16 ( 52 % ) , upper extremity ischemia in six ( 19 % ) , both vertebrobasilar insufficiency and extremity ischemia in four ( 13 % ) , and stroke and/or hemispheric transient ischemic attacks in four ( 13 % ) patients . one patient ( 3 % ) had angina pectoris caused by " coronary-subclavian steal . " formal bypass grafts were performed in 28 ( 90 % ) cases by means of polyterafluoroethylene ( 24 ) , dacron ( 2 ) , or saphenous vein ( 2 ) , and carotid-subclavian transposition was performed in three ( 10 % ) cases . synchronous procedures included carotid endarterectomy ( 4 ) , carotid-carotid bypass ( 1 ) , and axillobrachial bypass ( 1 ) . there was no operative mortality . thirty-day primary patency was 97 % . follow-up has ranged from 1 to 121 ( mean , 42 ) months . three grafts ( polytetrafluoroethylene ) have occluded during follow-up yielding long-term primary patency of 92 % at 5 years and 83 % at 8 years . relief of symptoms was initially achieved in 30 ( 97 % ) patients . recurrent symptoms have developed in six ( 20 % ) patients from 2 to 55 ( mean , 26 ) months after surgery , including two with occluded and four with patent grafts . symptom-free survival is 89 % at 1 year , 84 % at 2 years , and 71 % at 7 years of follow-up . six patients have died during follow-up yielding overall survival of 88 % at 5 years , and 48 % at 10 years . 
the role of carotid screening before coronary artery bypass . five hundred thirty-nine patients with no symptoms of cerebral ischemia undergoing coronary artery bypass were preoperatively evaluated for presence of carotid stenosis by noninvasive methods ( duplex scanning and ocular pneumoplethysmography-gee ) . overall prevalence of carotid stenosis greater than 75 % was higher ( 8.7 % ) than that generally reported . age greater than 60 years was significantly related to presence of carotid stenosis greater than 75 % ( 11.3 % vs 3.8 % , p = 0.003 ) . risk factors such as hypercholesterolemia , hypertension , diabetes mellitus , and smoking were not predictive for carotid stenosis , postoperative stroke , or death . carotid stenosis greater than 75 % ( odds ratio 9.87 , p less than 0.005 ) and coronary artery bypass redo ( odds ratio 5.26 , p less than 0.05 ) were both independent predictors of stroke risk . patients were divided into four groups : group 1 , minimal or mild degree of carotid stenosis ( less than 50 % ) , not submitted to prophylactic carotid endarterectomy ( 432 patients , 80.1 % ) ; group 2 , moderate degree of stenosis ( 50 % to 75 % ) , no prophylactic carotid endarterectomy ( 60 patients , 11.2 % ) ; group 3 , severe carotid stenosis ; ( greater than 75 % ) , submitted to prophylactic carotid endarterectomy ( 19 patients , 3.5 % ) , group 4 , severe carotid stenosis ( greater than 75 % ) no prophylactic carotid endarterectomy ( 28 patients , 5.2 % ) . patients in group 4 had significantly higher stroke rate ( 14.3 % ) compared to the other three groups ( 1.1 % ) ( p = 0.0019 ) . the finding of carotid stenosis greater than 75 % in patients over 60 years of age was associated with occurrence of stroke in 15 % of cases . carotid screening is helpful to determine patients at increased risk of stroke and should be performed in patients greater than 60 years . 
carotid endarterectomy : a ten-year analysis of outcome and cost of treatment . between 1978 and 1988 , 215 patients with an average age of 67 years , underwent 246 carotid endarterectomies . two hundred ten ( 85.4 % ) patients were symptomatic , and 36 ( 14.6 % ) were asymptomatic . six patients ( 2.4 % ) had a postoperative stroke , and all had immediate reoperation . one of these patients died ( 30 day mortality rate , 0.4 % for the series ) , and two ( 0.8 % ) recovered completely , whereas three ( 1.2 % ) had a mild permanent neurologic deficit . two patients ( 0.8 % ) had nonfatal myocardial infarction . mean follow-up of 42.2 months ( range , 1 to 126 months ) was achieved . at 5 and 8 years actuarial survival rates of 82 % and 66 % and stroke-free survival rates of 67 % and 37 % were observed . actuarial stroke free rates of 90 % at 5 and 8 years were noted . by introducing and observing guidelines that required preoperative study of most clearly defined classes of patients before admission for surgical treatment , the average length of stay for carotid endarterectomy was lowered from 9.5 days in the first 5 years of the study to 5.8 days in the second 5 years ( p = 0.001 ) . average hospital charges , expressed in constant dollars , decreased from $ 3113 in the first 5 years to $ 2620 in the second 5 years ( p = 0.02 ) despite an 88 % inflationary increase in medical consumer price index . this experience shows that the length of hospitalization of patients with carotid endarterectomy can be reduced and the cost of admission lowered without untoward effect on perioperative morbidity and mortality rates . 
the value of pulmonary artery and central venous monitoring in patients undergoing abdominal aortic reconstructive surgery : a comparative study of two selected , randomized groups . one hundred two patients undergoing abdominal aortic reconstructive surgery were prospectively , randomly allocated to two groups , one of which was monitored with a central venous catheter and the other with a pulmonary artery catheter . patients with uncompensated cardiopulmonary or renal disease were excluded from the study . general anesthesia was administered for the surgical procedure , and the patients were followed through hospital discharge . no statistically significant differences occurred between the two groups with regard to morbidity ( perioperative cardiac , pulmonary or renal sequelae ) , mortality rate , duration of intensive care , postoperative hospital stay , or cost of hospitalization . the one statistically significant difference between groups was the professional fee charged for anesthetic care , which was higher for patients with pulmonary artery catheters than for those with central venous catheters . in conclusion , we prospectively gathered data from most patients presented for abdominal aortic reconstructive surgery . our data seem to indicate that the choice of central venous catheter or pulmonary artery catheter monitoring makes little difference in outcome after abdominal aortic reconstructive surgery , and that for many patients pulmonary artery catheters are not necessary to give appropriate , adequate care . because of the size of the sample , however , declarations of epidemiologic significance would be unfounded . therefore large-scale , multicenter studies addressing such outcomes remain necessary . 
regression of coronary atherosclerosis during treatment of familial hypercholesterolemia with combined drug regimens . we conducted a randomized , controlled trial in 72 patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia to test whether reducing plasma low-density lipoprotein levels by diet and combined drug regimens can induce regression of coronary lesions . four hundred fifty-seven lesions were measured before and after a 26-month interval by computer-based quantitative angiography . the primary outcome variable was within-patient mean change in percent area stenosis . mean low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels decreased from 7.32 + / - 1.5 to 4.45 + / - 1.6 mmol/l . the mean change in percent area stenosis among controls was +0.80 , indicating progression , while the mean change for the treatment group was -1.53 , indicating regression ( p = .039 by two-tailed t test for the difference between groups ) . regression among women , analyzed separately , was also significant . the change in percent area stenosis was correlated with low-density lipoprotein levels on trial . we conclude that reduction of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels can induce regression of atherosclerotic lesions of the coronary arteries in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia . the anticipation of benefit from treatment applies to women and men alike . 
beneficial effects of colestipol-niacin on coronary atherosclerosis . a 4-year follow-up . the cholesterol lowering atherosclerosis study ( clas ) was a randomized , placebo-controlled , angiographic trial testing combined colestipol-niacin therapy in 162 subjects . two-year results ( clas-i ) showed decreased atherosclerosis progression and increased regression . we now describe a subgroup of 103 subjects treated for 4 years ( clas-ii ) . changes in blood lipid , lipoprotein-cholesterol , and apolipoprotein levels were maintained , and at 4 years significantly more drug-treated subjects demonstrated nonprogression ( 52 % drug - vs 15 % placebo-treated ) and regression ( 18 % drug - vs 6 % placebo-treated ) in native coronary artery lesions . significantly fewer drug-treated subjects developed new lesions in native coronary arteries ( 14 % drug - vs 40 % placebo-treated ) and bypass grafts ( 16 % drug - vs 38 % placebo-treated ) . these results confirm clas-i findings and indicate that regression can continue for 4 years . they reaffirm the need for early initiation of vigorous long-term lipid lowering therapy in coronary bypass subjects . 
relationship of atherosclerosis in young men to serum lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations and smoking . a preliminary report from the pathobiological determinants of atherosclerosis in youth ( pday ) research group investigators in eight communities collected aortas , right coronary arteries , blood , and associated information from 390 males , 15 to 34 years of age , who died of violent causes . pathologists at central laboratories graded the arteries for atherosclerotic lesions , and serum lipoprotein cholesterol and thiocyanate concentrations were measured . the percentage of intimal surface involved with atherosclerotic lesions in both the aorta and the right coronary artery was positively associated with serum very low-density lipoprotein + low-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration and negatively associated with serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration . the serum thiocyanate concentration , a marker for smoking , was strongly associated with prevalence of raised lesions , particularly in the abdominal aorta . the effect of smoking was not explained by lipoprotein levels . blacks had more extensive total surface involvement of the aorta after adjustment for lipoprotein cholesterol levels and smoking . these associations indicate that serum lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations and smoking are important determinants of the early stages of atherosclerosis in adolescents and young adults . 
the case against childhood cholesterol screening because some authorities have proposed blood cholesterol screening for children to prevent coronary heart disease , we reviewed published studies to estimate the potential risks and benefits of such screening . childhood cholesterol levels are a poor predictor of high cholesterol levels in young adulthood and will be an even poorer predictor of coronary heart disease later in life . there is no evidence that blood cholesterol levels can be lowered more easily in children than in adults , and it seems unlikely that cholesterol reduction in childhood will be much more effective at preventing coronary heart disease than cholesterol reduction begun in middle age . screening and interventions to lower blood cholesterol levels for millions of children would be expensive , could lead to labeling and family conflicts , and may cause malnutrition and increased noncardiovascular mortality . because the benefits of cholesterol screening are unlikely to exceed these risks , we conclude that children should not be screened for high blood cholesterol levels . 
a single cholesterol measurement underestimates the risk of coronary heart disease . an empirical example from the lipid research clinics mortality follow-up study . in prospective epidemiologic studies of coronary heart disease , a single measurement of cholesterol is made to assess its relationship to the risk of coronary disease . statistical theory states that if this measurement is subject to within-individual variability , the strength of the relationship will be underestimated . this is empirically shown for the example of plasma cholesterol . for the lipid research clinics follow-up study population ( comprising 2170 white men over 30 years of age ) , the age-adjusted coronary heart disease mortality regression coefficient increases from .453 to .496 if the average of two cholesterol measurements is used instead of a single measurement . since the correlation between the two repeated cholesterol measurements is .815 , an increase in the regression coefficient up to .556 would be expected if the true cholesterol values were available . thus , epidemiologic studies have substantially underestimated the strength of the relationship between cholesterol levels and the risk of coronary disease by calculating the relationship on the basis of a single cholesterol determination . 
cholesterol and coronary heart disease . future directions . the importance of high serum cholesterol levels as a risk factor for coronary heart disease and the benefit of lowering cholesterol levels for reducing risk are being increasingly accepted . a broad consensus to this effect has led to the establishment of the national cholesterol education program . although the available evidence fully justifies this program , its practical application to the american public has generated a series of new questions that must be explored . for example , it can be questioned whether reduction in coronary risk through lowering cholesterol levels extends to both sexes and all age groups . for people with high cholesterol levels , dietary modification is undoubtedly the first step of management , but the fraction of people responding adequately to dietary change remains to be determined . finally , indications for drug therapy and choice of drugs need further exploration , particularly in the area of cost vs benefit . thus , continuing research must be carried out in parallel with clinical and public health application of cholesterol education . 
experimental retinal branch vein occlusion in miniature pigs induces local tissue hypoxia and vasoproliferative microangiopathy . in miniature pigs , retinal veins were experimentally occluded using argon laser coagulation . microvascular modifications leading to retinal hemorrhages and retinal edema were observed some hours after the occlusion . these lesions resolved progressively within 3 weeks after the occlusion , but in most cases ischemic retinal territories persisted . preretinal partial pressure of oxygen ( po2 ) measurements , using double barrelled o2-sensitive microelectrodes , showed that all the ischemic areas were indeed hypoxic . in half of the experiments , preretinal and intravitreal new vessels grew on the ischemic territories . tissue hypoxia appears to be a key step in triggering neovascularization . however , the critical level of hypoxia was not determined . 
scatter photocoagulation restores tissue hypoxia in experimental vasoproliferative microangiopathy in miniature pigs . experimental retinal branch vein occlusion using argon laser photocoagulation in miniature pigs induced the development of ischemic retinal territories associated with preretinal neovascularization . preretinal partial pressure of oxygen ( po2 ) measurements on the ischemic territories , using o2-sensitive microelectrodes , established that the ischemic retinal areas were hypoxic . scatter photocoagulation of these ischemic hypoxic territories restores the local po2 to the normal values within 2 weeks . hence , the reported inhibitory effect of photocoagulation on the development of retinal neovascularization could be due to a reversal effect on tissue hypoxia . 
emergent signs of cancer . recognizing them early in the office or er . primary care physicians have a crucial role in recognition of potentially emergent conditions in patients with known or suspected cancer . this task presents a significant challenge because the initial manifestations of these conditions are usually nonspecific . in most cases , therapy is far more effective when diagnosis is made at the earliest possible point . thus , physicians should become familiar with conditions commonly seen in cancer patients , such as superior vena cava syndrome , malignant pericardial effusion , spinal-epidural metastasis , and altered mentation from brain metastases , metabolic encephalopathy , or hypoglycemia . 
hormone replacement therapy . how to select the best preparation and regimen . hormone replacement therapy is a mainstay of preventive healthcare for the maturing female population . estrogen deficiency that comes with menopause can have serious effects and is especially important in light of the increasing life expectancy of women . various estrogen and progesterone preparations are available , and their best application requires understanding of the different potencies and metabolic effects . daily maintenance therapy without a drug-free interval is becoming the standard method of the 1990s . no doubt the future will bring even better delivery regimens . 
embolization with particles in thoracic intramedullary arteriovenous malformations : long-term angiographic and clinical results . to evaluate the long-term results of endovascular treatment with particles in the management of thoracic intramedullary arteriovenous malformations ( avms ) , the authors retrospectively reviewed the angiographic and clinical findings in 35 patients . follow-up was 1-15 years ( mean , 6 years ) in 28 patients and 6-10 months ( mean , 7 months ) in seven . a total of 158 embolization procedures were performed in 35 patients . revascularization occurred frequently , necessitating multiple endovascular sessions . long-term clinical evaluation showed clinical improvement , compared with the initial status before treatment , in 63 % of the patients . clinical aggravation due to embolization was observed in seven patients ( 20 % ) after 12 of the 158 endovascular sessions ( 8 % ) . these results are better than those reported after surgery and indicate that embolization with particles is an efficient and safe tool in the treatment of thoracic intramedullary avms . 
renal artery stenosis : evaluation with color doppler flow imaging . renal artery stenosis ( ras ) is the most common correctable cause of hypertension . the current study was undertaken to evaluate the usefulness of color doppler flow imaging as a screening examination in the detection of significant ras . fifty-five kidneys in 30 patients were examined with aortography and color doppler flow imaging in a double-blind fashion . the peak systolic velocity ( psv ) in the renal artery , the renal-aortic ratio ( rar ) ( ie , the ratio of the psv in the renal artery to the psv in the aorta ) , and the renal artery resistive index were determined and compared with the percentage of stenosis as determined with angiography . ultrasound ( us ) criteria used to diagnose ras were ( a ) an rar of 3.5 or greater and/or ( b ) a renal artery psv of greater than 100 cm/sec . doppler tracings were obtained in 25 ( 69 % ) of 36 kidneys with a patent single renal artery . rar and psv each yielded a sensitivity of 0 % in the diagnosis of ras . doppler tracings were obtained in three ( 50 % ) of six occluded renal arteries . accessory arteries were present in 13 ( 24 % ) of 55 kidneys , but none were visualized with color doppler flow imaging . the authors conclude that with current technical capability , color duplex us is not an adequate screening method for the detection of ras . 
penetrating aortic ulcers : diagnosis with mr imaging . the authors studied seven patients with penetrating aortic ulcers with use of magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging . all patients were evaluated for acute chest symptoms , and the presence of aortic ulcers was confirmed by means of angiography in all seven patients . five patients also underwent computed tomography ( ct ) . three patients underwent surgical repair of the thoracic aorta . mr findings included intramural hematoma and focal aortic wall ulceration in four patients , focal ulceration in one , focal intramural hematoma in one , and focal intramural hematoma with rupture in one . the diagnosis of intramural hematoma was made by the detection of increased signal intensity on t1 - and t2-weighted mr images . mr imaging was superior to angiography in depicting the extent of intramural thrombus , although one ulceration diagnosed at angiography was missed at mr imaging . mr imaging was superior to ct in differentiating acute intramural hematoma from atherosclerotic plaque and chronic intraluminal thrombus , although it did not depict displaced intimal calcification in one patient with extensive intramural hematoma . 
inferior vena caval filter thrombi : evaluation with intravascular us . a 20-mhz intravascular ultrasound ( us ) transducer inside a percutaneously inserted catheter was used to evaluate inferior vena caval ( ivc ) filters for thrombi in vitro and in vivo . six different ivc filters were studied with intravascular us in a saline-filled model . each filter had a characteristic , recognizable us pattern . experimental thrombi as small as 0.5 cm3 were easily detected . intravascular us was used clinically 25 times to evaluate the ivc in 23 patients with 24 ivc filters . positive-contrast cavograms were available for comparison in all 25 cases . in 13 cases , no thrombi were identified in the filter or ivc with either intravascular us or cavography ; in five of 12 cases with thrombi , intravascular us and cavography demonstrated the thrombi equally well . in six cases , intravascular us was superior to cavography in detection or delineation of thrombus in the ivc or filter . intravascular us was considered superior to external duplex us in evaluation of caval thrombi in all 21 cases available for comparison . no complications from intravascular us were noted . 
iliac artery stenosis and occlusion : preliminary results of treatment with gianturco expandable metallic stents . ten patients with atherosclerotic stenosis or occlusion of the iliac artery were treated with gianturco expandable metallic stents . in the five cases of stenosis , only balloon dilation was performed prior to placement of stents . the five patients with occluded arteries were given intraarterial infusions of urokinase before balloon dilation and stent placement . clinical symptoms improved in all patients , and no technical failures or complications occurred . doppler ankle-brachial index studies were performed in nine cases , and in all nine cases the indexes improved after stent placement . during follow-up of 2-18 months ( mean , 10.3 months ) , all arteries remained patent . follow-up angiograms showed slight intimal thickening and no restenosis . long-term follow-up and more clinical experience will be necessary to evaluate the efficacy of this stent . however , preliminary results suggest that the gianturco expandable metallic stent is of value in the treatment of arterial occlusive disease . 
the role of preoperative radionuclide ventriculography in defining outcome after revascularization of the extremity . revascularization of the extremity was performed upon 110 patients after preoperative radionuclide ventriculography ( rnvg ) . mean ejection fraction ( ef ) was 50 + / - 13 per cent . ventricular wall motion abnormalities were present in 46 per cent . revascularization included inflow procedures , such as aortofemoral ( n = 25 ) or extraanatomic bypass ( axillofemoral or femorofemoral , n = 11 ) ; infrainguinal reconstruction , including femoropopliteal or distal bypass ( n = 43 ) , and other procedures to improve perfusion of the limb or correct complications after previous vascular reconstruction upon the extremity ( n = 31 ) . perioperative ( 30 days ) mortality rate was 0.9 per cent and 97.0 per cent of the patients were discharged alive from the hospital . myocardial infarction ( mi ) occurred in 3.6 per cent , new ventricular arrhythmia in 1.8 per cent and congestive heart failure in 6.4 per cent of the patients during the perioperative period . during follow-up study ( 607 + / - 363 days ) , 7.3 per cent required major amputation , ipsilateral to reconstruction , 5.5 per cent required surgical or angiographic revision for hemodynamic failure of the reconstruction prior to thrombosis and 12.7 per cent thrombosed part or all of the reconstruction . revascularization failure did not appear to be related to the level of cardiac function . those with normal ( greater than 50 per cent ) ef had greater over-all survival by life table analysis than those with ef less than or equal to 50 per cent ( p = 0.0006 , mantel-cox test ) . ventricular wall motion abnormalities were associated with reduced over-all survival ( p = 0.008 , mantel-cox test ) . the presence of angina or previous mi , singularly or in combination , did not have an adverse effect on over-all survival , whereas diabetes ( p = 0.0058 , mantel-cox test ) and cigarette smoking ( p = 0.0137 , breslow test ) were associated with significantly diminished over-all survival . preoperative rnvg can identify subgroups at a survival disadvantage after revascularization of the extremity in a population in which the presence of angina or previous mi does not predict survival . 
carotid endarterectomy for chronic retinal ischemia . carotid arterial disease may result in a variety of ischemic ocular problems that can eventually lead to permanent blindness . from 1984 to 1988 , 18 patients underwent reconstruction of the carotid artery in an attempt to restore normal retinal arterial flow and , thereby , reverse or prevent progression of ischemic oculopathy . during a mean period of 21 months after carotid arterial reconstruction , subjective improvement in vision as well as a resolution in eye and periorbital pain was reported in 87.5 per cent of the patients . measured visual acuity improved or stabilized in 94.4 per cent ; macular photostress recovery times improved in 87.5 per cent , funduscopic examinations noted improvement or resolution in ischemic signs in 93.3 per cent and intraocular pressures improved in two of three patients . one patient experienced recurrent episodes of amaurosis fugax , which resolved after two weeks and did not recur . a second patient experienced an increase in intraocular pressures with visual deterioration , required laser photocoagulation after which the condition of the patient stabilized but only after significant visual impairment . carotid arterial reconstruction is effective for the treatment of ischemic oculopathy and is most beneficial if performed early , before the onset of irreversible neovascular glaucoma . 
regional ischemia in cerebral venous hypertension due to embolic occlusion of the superior sagittal sinus in the rat . to determine the pathophysiological changes in brain tissue that characterize damage following cerebral venous hypertension , a model of cerebral venous hypertension in the rat was devised . this experimental model has the advantage of simultaneously measuring the regional changes in cerebral blood flow as well as the metabolism . the ischemic area demonstrated by the accumulation of nadh is confined to the cerebral cortex and becomes enlarged in proportion to the increase in venous pressure . this metabolic disturbance appears even in the very early period following cerebral venous hypertension . these pathophysiological features are different from those observed in the case of intracranial hypertension . 
third ventricle cavernous angioma : report of two cases . cavernous angioma arising in the third ventricle is an extremely rare disease . we have reviewed five cases previously reported , as well as our own two cases , and discuss the clinical characteristics of and surgical approach to cavernous angioma at this site . the bifrontal craniotomy and interhemispheric translamina terminalis approach minimize the damage to the brain and allow for an approach to the third ventricle in a wide operative field with minimal compression of the brain itself . we have found this approach to be suitable for surgery on angiomas of the anterior half of the third ventricle . 
medical management of congestive heart failure . the syndrome of congestive heart failure can result from a variety of cardiac disorders of which left ventricular dysfunction is the most common . the clinical presentation is determined by the interaction between cardiac dysfunction and a series of compensatory mechanisms that are activated throughout the body . therapy for this disorder is best approached through an understanding of this complex relationship and an appreciation for the influence of preload , afterload , and contractility on cardiac performance . recent important advances in therapy include the use of combined diuretic therapy , a better understanding of the value of the digitalis glycosides , and evidence that angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitors can relieve symptoms and prolong life . more intensive therapy earlier in the course of congestive heart failure appears to have some clinical benefit . the use of ace inhibitors during this phase may delay progression of the underlying left ventricular dysfunction . future therapy will be influenced by the results of ongoing trials that are testing both new agents and expanded indications for drugs that are currently available . 
a case of lisinopril-induced lithium toxicity we describe a patient who developed lithium toxicity when lisinopril was substituted for clonidine . possible mechanisms of angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitor-induced lithium toxicity are discussed . aggressive serum lithium concentration monitoring and a reduction in the dose of lithium is advised when using ace inhibitors because of disturbances and shifts in fluid and electrolyte balance . 
usefulness of antithrombotic therapy in resting angina pectoris or non-q-wave myocardial infarction in preventing death and myocardial infarction ( a pilot study from the antithrombotic therapy in acute coronary syndromes study group ) . in a prospective pilot trial of antithrombotic therapy in the acute coronary syndromes ( atacs ) of resting and unstable angina pectoris or non-q-wave myocardial infarction , 3 different antithrombotic regimens in the prevention of recurrent ischemic events were compared for efficacy . ninety-three patients were randomized to receive aspirin ( 325 mg/day ) , or full-dose heparin followed by warfarin , or the combination of aspirin ( 80 mg/day ) plus heparin and then warfarin . trial antithrombotic therapy was added to standardized antianginal medication and continued for 3 months or until an end point was reached . analysis , by intention-to-treat , of the 3-month end points , revealed the following : recurrent ischemia occurred in 7 patients ( 22 % ) after aspirin , in 6 patients ( 25 % ) after heparin and warfarin , and in 16 patients ( 43 % ) after aspirin combined with heparin and then warfarin ; coronary revascularization occurred in 12 patients ( 38 % ) after aspirin , in 12 patients ( 50 % ) after heparin and warfarin , and in 22 patients ( 60 % ) after aspirin combined with heparin and then warfarin ; myocardial infarction occurred in 1 patient ( 3 % ) after aspirin , in 3 patients ( 13 % ) after heparin and warfarin , and in no patient after aspirin combined with heparin and then warfarin ; no deaths occurred after aspirin or after aspirin combined with heparin and then warfarin , but 1 patient ( 4 % ) died after warfarin alone ; major bleeding occurred in 3 patients ( 9 % ) after aspirin , in 2 patients ( 8 % ) after heparin and warfarin , and in 3 patients ( 8 % ) after aspirin combined with heparin and then warfarin . recurrent myocardial ischemia occurred at 3 + / - 3 days after randomization . 
angiographic progression to total coronary occlusion in hyperlipidemic patients after acute myocardial infarction . posch group . the progression of coronary artery stenosis to total occlusion was assessed in 413 hyperlipidemic patients with a previous myocardial infarction . coronary angiograms were recorded at baseline , 3 ( n = 312 ) , and 5 years ( n = 248 ) after initial study and analyzed by 2 independent readers . there were 177 ( 43 % ) patients with 1 - , 130 ( 31 % ) with 2 - , and 61 ( 15 % ) with 3-vessel disease ( greater than or equal to 50 % diameter narrowing ) , whereas 45 ( 11 % ) did not have significant disease within a major coronary vessel at baseline . a new finding of total occlusion occurred in 4 % ( 30 of 748 ) and 7 % ( 40 of 605 ) of major coronary artery segments at 3 and 5 years , respectively . the risk of progression to total occlusion was higher if the initial stenosis was greater than 60 % compared to lesions less than or equal to 60 % both at 3 years ( 19 of 143 = 13 % vs 11 of 605 = 2 % ; p less than 0.001 ) and 5 years ( 27 of 91 = 30 % vs 13 of 514 = 3 % ; p less than 0.001 ) . the frequency of occlusion was highest for the right coronary artery by 5 years ( 18 of 167 = 11 % for right vs 8 of 225 = 4 % for circumflex vs 14 of 213 = 7 % for left anterior descending coronary arteries ; p less than 0.02 ) . clinical and laboratory data revealed that myocardial infarction was associated with a new total occlusion in 23 % of patients ( 7 of 30 ) at 3 years and in 64 % ( 25 of 39 ) at 5 years . 
ability of calcium-entry blockade by felodipine to disclose different pathogenetic mechanisms behind hyperventilation-induced myocardial ischemia in men . to verify that myocardial ischemia occurring during either the overbreathing or recovery phase of the hyperventilation test is based on different pathogenetic mechanisms , 2 consecutive series of patients , selected on the basis of their response to a run-in hyperventilation test , were studied . group i comprised 15 patients who developed st-segment depression early during overbreathing , whereas group ii consisted of 12 patients showing st-segment depression late during the recovery phase . a single oral dose of felodipine 10 mg or of placebo was administered on 2 consecutive days according to a randomized , double-blind , crossover design , and the hyperventilation test was repeated , on both days of the study , 3 to 5 hours after drug intake . in group i , st-segment depression occurred after placebo in all patients during overbreathing , with an increase in rate pressure product ( from 112 + / - 31 at baseline to 168 + / - 55 mm hg x beats/min/100 at the onset of st-segment depression ; p less than 0.01 ) . after felodipine , 13 patients continued to show st-segment depression during overbreathing , together with an increase in rate pressure product ( from 107 + / - 24 at baseline to 158 + / - 46 mm hg x beats/min/100 at the onset of electrocardiographic changes ; p less than 0.01 ) . in group ii , all 12 patients showed st-segment depression during recovery after placebo , with a rate pressure product comparable to baseline conditions ( 112 + / - 35 at baseline vs 102 + / - 27 mm hg x beats/min/100 at the onset of st-segment depression ; difference not significant ) . after felodipine , no patient developed st-segment depression or chest pain . 
long-term prognosis of myocardial ischemia detected by holter monitoring in peripheral vascular disease . to assess the long-term prognostic significance of myocardial ischemia , as measured by ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring , in patients with occlusive peripheral arterial disease , 176 eligible patients scheduled for elective peripheral arterial surgery at brigham and women 's hospital were prospectively studied . all patients were monitored preoperatively without alterations to baseline medications . prospective follow-up was obtained during routine medical care as provided by blinded , independent physicians and by subsequent telephone contact with the patients . thirty-two patients ( 18 % ) had a total of 75 episodes of myocardial ischemia , 73 ( 97 % ) of which were asymptomatic . during a mean follow-up period of 615 days , there were 9 cardiac deaths , 1 occurring in-hospital after peripheral vascular surgery , and 13 nonfatal myocardial infarctions , 4 occurring in-hospital after peripheral vascular surgery . cardiac events occurred in 12 of 32 patients with ischemia ( 38 % ) , including 6 cardiac deaths , and in 10 of 144 patients without ischemia ( 7 % ) , including 3 cardiac deaths ( risk ratio 5.4 , 95 % confidence interval 2.6 to 11.4 ) . the sensitivity of ischemia was 55 % , the specificity was 87 % , the positive predictive value was 38 % , and the negative predictive value was 93 % . in a multivariate cox proportional-hazards model controlling for age , gender , coronary risk factors , history of angina , myocardial infarction , coronary artery disease and antianginal medications , the presence of ischemia was the only independent predictor of outcome . in patients with peripheral arterial disease , who often are unable to perform adequate exercise testing , ambulatory monitoring for myocardial ischemia is a significant independent predictor of 1 - to 2-year prognosis . 
usefulness of tomographic thallium-201 imaging for detection of restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . the role of tomographic thallium-201 exercise and redistribution imaging in the detection of restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) was evaluated in 116 patients : 61 ( 53 % ) with 1 - and 55 ( 47 % ) with multivessel ptca , with a total of 185 dilated vessels . complete revascularization was performed in 89 ( 77 % ) and partial revascularization in 27 ( 23 % ) of the patients . restenosis was angiographically demonstrated in 69 ( 60 % ) of the patients and 85 ( 46 % ) of the vessels 6.4 + / - 3.1 months after ptca . disease progression in previously normal vessels was noted in 11 patients . the results were : ( 1 ) for detection of restenosis in the group of patients , single-photon emission computed tomographic ( spect ) versus exercise electrocardiographic sensitivity was 93 vs 52 % ( p less than 0.001 ) , specificity 77 vs 64 % , and accuracy 86 vs 57 % ( p less than 0.001 ) . the results were similar in the complete and partial revascularization groups . ( 2 ) spect was 86 % sensitive , specific and accurate for restenosis detection in specific vessels with comparable results for 1-versus multivessel ptca and complete versus partial revascularization . sensitivity , specificity and accuracy were : 89 , 95 and 92 % for the left anterior descending coronary artery ; 88 , 79 and 82 % for the right coronary artery ; and 76 , 83 and 85 % for the left circumflex coronary artery . eighty-one percent of the diseased nondilated vessels were correctly identified . ( 3 ) disease progression to greater than 50 % stenosis was detected with 91 % sensitivity , 84 % specificity and 85 % accuracy . spect thallium-201 imaging is an excellent tool for the detection of restenosis and disease progression after ptca in the settings of 1 - and multivessel angioplasty and complete and partial revascularization . 
coronary artery disease in the octogenarian : angiographic spectrum and suitability for revascularization . the angiographic findings of 84 consecutive octogenarians presenting with symptoms of coronary artery disease ( cad ) were examined to determine the extent of cad as well as suitability for both coronary artery bypass grafting ( cabg ) and percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) . the frequency of 0 - , 1 - , 2 - , and 3-vessel and left main cad was 7 , 14 , 21 , 57 and 13 % , respectively . based on angiographic criteria , 69 of 78 patients ( 88 % ) with significant cad had suitable coronary anatomy for cabg . only 24 patients ( 31 % ) had coronary anatomy amenable to ptca . cabg was performed in 19 patients with an operative mortality of 16 % and major complication rate of 37 % . ptca was performed in 12 patients with a clinical success rate of 83 % , mortality of 8 % and major complication rate of 8 % . it is concluded that in octogenarians with cad , cardiac catheterization will often reveal coronary anatomy that is suitable for cabg but less suitable for ptca . the morbidity and mortality associated with these interventions are high . 
prevalence and correlates of increased lung/heart ratio of thallium-201 during dipyridamole stress imaging for suspected coronary artery disease . there is little information concerning the prevalence and clinical correlates of increased pulmonary thallium-201 uptake during dipyridamole thallium-201 stress imaging . accordingly , the clinical characteristics and quantitative thallium-201 findings were correlated with quantitative lung/heart thallium-201 ratio in 87 patients undergoing dipyridamole thallium-201 stress testing . nineteen patients ( 22 % ) had an elevated ratio ( greater than 0.51 ) . these patients were more likely to have had an infarction , to be taking beta blockers , and have a lower rate-pressure product after dipyridamole administration than those with a normal ratio ( p less than 0.03 ) . an elevated ratio was associated with a greater likelihood of initial , redistribution and persistent defects , as well as left ventricular cavity dilatation on thallium-201 imaging ( p less than 0.05 ) . in addition , the number of myocardial segments demonstrating initial , redistribution and persistent defects was also greater in patients with increased ratios ( p less than 0.03 ) . multivariate analysis demonstrated that the presence of redistribution and left ventricular cavity dilatation were the most significant correlates of lung/heart thallium-201 ratio . it is concluded that the prevalence of increased lung/heart thallium-201 ratio with dipyridamole thallium-201 stress imaging is similar to that seen with exercise stress imaging . as with exercise thallium-201 imaging , increased pulmonary thallium-201 uptake may be a marker of functionally more significant coronary artery disease . 
sudden death behind the wheel from natural disease in drivers of four-wheeled motorized vehicles . the heart was studied in 30 persons who died suddenly from natural causes in the driver 's seat of an automobile , truck or bus . twenty had cardiac arrest while driving and the other 10 while sitting in the driver 's seat of a parked vehicle . of the 20 drivers , 16 died from atherosclerotic coronary artery disease ( cad ) : 12 ( 75 % ) had minor collisions and 4 did not . of the 16 with fatal cad , an average of 2.3 + / - 0.8 of the 4 major coronary arteries were narrowed greater than 75 % in cross-sectional area ( csa ) by plaque ; of 668 five-mm segments of the 4 major ( right , left main , left anterior descending , left circumflex ) coronary arteries in 13 of these 16 cases , 27 ( 4 % ) were narrowed 96 to 100 % and 127 ( 19 % ) were narrowed 76 to 95 % in csa by plaque . the remaining 4 drivers died from noncoronary conditions : aortic rupture associated with the marfan syndrome in 1 ; cardiac sarcoidosis in 1 ; thoracic aortic dissection in 1 ; and severe mitral regurgitation from infective endocarditis , which had healed in 1 . the other 10 persons were found dead in the driver 's seat of a parked vehicle and 8 of them had fatal cad . of the 8 cad victims , an average of 2.5 + / - 1.2 of the 4 major coronary arteries was narrowed greater than 75 % by plaque ; of the 283 five-mm segments of coronary arteries in 7 of the 8 cases , 44 ( 16 % ) were narrowed 96 to 100 % and 69 ( 24 % ) were narrowed 76 to 95 % in csa by plaque . 
changes in plasma free fatty acids and glycerols during prolonged exercise in trained and hypertensive persons taking propranolol and pindolol . the extent to which lipolysis is attenuated during prolonged submaximal exercise during beta blockade was determined in 12 normotensive endurance-trained and 12 hypertensive sedentary men using nonselective drugs with and without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity ( isa ) . initially , subjects performed a graded treadmill test to determine maximal oxygen uptake ( vo2max ) . this was followed by 2-hour walks at 25 and 45 % of the subject 's vo2max under each of 3 treatments : pindolol ( isa ) , propranolol ( non-isa ) and placebo . the distribution of medication was randomized and double blinded . blood samples taken at rest and every 30 minutes during the 2-hour walks were analyzed to determine the concentrations of free fatty acids ( ffa ) and glycerol . on the basis of the respective changes in ffa , glycerols and the respiratory exchange ratio , beta-adrenergic blockade did not attenuate lipolysis in the untrained hypertensive subjects when compared with the placebo administration . however , beta blockade did demonstrate a tendency to attenuate lipolysis in the trained , normotensive subjects when compared with results after placebo administration . this was particularly evident at 30 minutes of exercise , when both glycerol and ffa concentrations were not increased above resting values under both conditions of beta blockade . no differences between pindolol and propranolol were observed . therefore , a beta-blocking agent with isa properties appears to have no clear benefit with respect to lipid metabolism during low and moderate intensity exercise . furthermore , these data demonstrate that beta blockade does not inhibit exercise-induced lipolysis at low and moderate intensities of exercise as formerly believed , and is unlikely to be the cause of fatigue normally observed during work in patient populations taking beta-blocking medication . 
effects of renin inhibition in systemic hypertension . the effect of the direct renin inhibitor enalkiren ( abbott laboratories ) was examined in 8 healthy patients with essential hypertension . with an unrestricted sodium diet , plasma renin concentration was inhibited within 10 minutes by intravenous enalkiren and remained essentially undetectable for greater than or equal to 6 hours ( 11.9 + / - 4 to 1.0 + / - 0.6 ng angiotensin i/ml/hour , p less than 0.05 ) . mean arterial blood pressure declined gradually ( 108 + / - 5 to 84 + / - 4 mm hg , p = 0.02 ) , as did plasma aldosterone concentration ( 14.4 + / - 3.8 to 4.4 + / - 0.8 ng/dl , p = 0.03 ) , whereas plasma immunoreactive active renin concentration increased progressively ( 35 + / - 14 to 160 + / - 60 pg/ml , p greater than 0.05 ) . urinary excretion of the stable metabolite of prostacyclin ( 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha ) decreased slightly , but not significantly ( 42 + / - 10 to 33 + / - 11 ng/g creatinine , p = 0.13 ) . the addition of a diuretic decreased baseline blood pressure and increased baseline plasma renin and aldosterone values . blood pressure responses to enalkiren were slightly ( though not significantly ) greater than those observed before diuretic administration . we conclude that enalkiren is effective in decreasing blood pressure and in inhibiting the renin system , without significantly altering urinary prostacyclin excretion , in patients with essential hypertension . these results suggest that the renin system contributes to the maintenance of elevated blood pressure in some patients with essential hypertension . 
importance of hemodynamic response to therapy in predicting survival with ejection fraction less than or equal to 20 % secondary to ischemic or nonischemic dilated cardiomyopathy . to identify patients with left ventricular ejection fractions less than 20 % who are likely to survive on tailored medical therapy after referral to transplantation , this study of 152 patients addressed the hypotheses that ( 1 ) severely elevated filling pressures initially measured at referral would not necessarily predict poor outcome , ( 2 ) survival would be best when low pulmonary wedge pressures could be achieved with therapy tailored for hemodynamic goals , and ( 3 ) coronary artery disease would be an independent risk factor for early mortality . despite an average initial ejection fraction of 0.15 , cardiac index of 2.0 liters/min/m2 and pulmonary artery wedge pressure of 28 mm hg , the actuarial survival with tailored therapy was 63 % at 1 year , with 34 of 41 ( 83 % ) deaths occurring suddenly . survival was not related to initial filling pressure elevation , but was best predicted by the pulmonary artery wedge pressures during therapy ; patients achieving pressure of less than or equal to 16 mm hg had 1-year survival of 83 vs 38 % ( p = 0.0001 ) . the other independent predictors were serum sodium and coronary artery disease . patients with high filling pressures during therapy and coronary artery disease had 21 % survival at 1 year . survival after referral to transplantation with an ejection fraction less than or equal to 20 % is better than previously described . patients in whom left ventricular filling pressures can not be adequately reduced by tailored therapy , particularly if coronary artery disease is present , should be considered for early transplantation . 
use of auscultation to follow patients with mitral systolic clicks and murmurs . mitral systolic clicks and murmurs together with associated symptoms constitute a major reason for cardiologic referral . although echocardiography with doppler study enables characterization of the mitral valve apparatus and quantification of regurgitation , its use has resulted in an overemphasis of the technical diagnosis of mitral valve prolapse and an undervaluation of diagnosis based on physical examination . to determine the clinical significance of an auscultatory classification of mitral systolic clicks with or without precordial systolic murmurs , 1 consultant 's medical records of 291 patients with these signs were reviewed . based on initial auscultatory findings , patients were divided into : ( 1 ) single or multiple apical systolic clicks with no murmur ( n = 99 ) ; ( 2 ) single or multiple apical systolic clicks and a late systolic murmur ( n = 129 ) ; and ( 3 ) single or multiple apical clicks and an apical pansystolic murmur or murmur beginning in the first half of systole ( n = 63 ) . the average duration of patient follow-up was 8 years ( range 1 to 30 ) . the prognosis was excellent for patients from all 3 classes . two cardiac-related deaths occurred : 1 each from classes 1 and 2 . mitral valve surgery was performed in 3 class 2 patients ( 2 % ) and in 2 class 3 patients ( 3 % ) . no patients developed endocarditis during follow-up . palpitations , with varying anxiety overlay , constituted a major indication for cardiologic referral in all 3 classes . auscultatory findings were valuable to the physician for explanation and relief of patient anxiety . for patient management , use of an auscultatory classification may be preferable to the technically generated term " mitral valve prolapse . " . 
angiocentric lymphoma with histologic features of neoplastic angioendotheliomatosis presenting with predominant respiratory and hematologic manifestations . report of a case and review of the literature neoplastic angioendotheliomatosis ( nae ) is a rare fatal disease characterized by widespread intravascular proliferations of neoplastic mononuclear cells . clinically , dermatologic and bizarre neurologic manifestations usually predominate . the origin of the neoplastic cells remains still undetermined . the authors report a patient with nae peculiar with respect to the following points : ( 1 ) the patient predominantly manifested respiratory symptoms and hematologic findings and lacked cutaneous or neurologic manifestations ; and ( 2 ) immunohistochemical and molecular genetic studies showed the b-cell nature of the neoplastic cells , although previous cases with predominant respiratory or hematologic manifestations were reported to be of endothelial origin . despite the rarity , this type of nae or angiocentric lymphoma should be recognized because it is easily confused with other disorders , particularly vasculitis or thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura . 
sudden death from acute cocaine intoxication in virginia in 1988 . a review of medical examiners ' autopsy records revealed that in 1988 , 33 residents of virginia died of acute cocaine intoxication . the subjects were 19 to 45 years old ; most were men , used cocaine intravenously , and used other toxic substances with the lethal dose of cocaine . 
cardiogenic hepatorenal syndrome . a variant of hepatorenal syndrome occurring in patients with chronic congestive heart failure following an episode of cardiogenic pulmonary edema , and in the absence of hypotension , is described . this was observed in 13 patients during an eleven-year period . the clinical picture is characterized by hepatic injury and functional renal impairment . increase of serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase levels as high as 2100 iu ; prolongation of prothrombin time ; elevation of serum bilirubin , creatinine , blood urea nitrogen , and potassium levels ; decrease in urinary sodium excretion ; and a normal urinary sediment are the salient laboratory abnormalities of this entity . treated with conventional medication , the patients ' course was fatal in 4 cases . when the splanchnic vasodilator dopamine was added to the patients ' management , 5 of 9 patients recovered . cardiogenic hepatorenal syndrome is a severe but potentially reversible complication of heart failure . the apparently beneficial effect of low-dose dopamine needs further evaluation . 
circumferential quantitative analysis of planar 201t1 myocardial scintigraphy in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease . methodology for the computer analysis of 201t1 myocardial perfusion images has been developed by several laboratories . substantial evidence of the advantage of this approach over visual inspection alone has been reported . the currently available computer analyses use different algorithms to analyze 201t1 kinetics in the myocardium . the authors evaluated and compared two widely used software programs , medical data system ( mds ) : a mean-count profile , and the cedars sinai ( cs ) : a maximal-count profile , of planar 201t1 scintigraphy for their ability to detect coronary artery disease ( cad ) . 
b-mode imaging and histomorphometric evaluation of carotid atherosclerosis . the quantitative and qualitative evaluation of atherosclerotic lesions by the ultrasonography has presented several problems , above all , the determination of accuracy and reproducibility of this methodology in humans . the present study aims to evaluated the results of b-mode imaging of extracranial carotid arteries in patients selected for surgery as compared with histologic results of the observations of the samples obtained by endarterectomy . shrinkage effects of the histologic samples were taken into consideration . several bidimensional images of atherosclerotic lesions , as obtained by ultrasound at different incident angles , were used to establish their maximum thickness . the maximum degree of the vessel stenosis calculated by ultrasound showed a high correlation ( y = 0.47 x + 42.4 , se = 0.11 , r = 0.5 , p less than 0.001 ) compared with the one obtained by histology . the imaging methodology provided however , a mean overestimation of the stenosis of about 7 % . relationships among the amount of calcium ( p less than 0.03 ) ; necrotic core p less than 0.056 ) ; and echogenic types , ie , soft , mixed , and hard ; have been suggested by a statistical trend . the results suggested that of the vascular lumen due to advanced atherosclerotic lesions . qualitative interpretation of atherosclerosis by b-mode imaging , ie , morphologic characteristics , seem , at present , to be of value , but more investigations in depth are needed . 
doppler diagnostics , indications , and control of surgical treatment in patients with carotid pathology . major stroke is a relatively common cause of death or disabling invalidism in patients with atherosclerosis . in a large percentage of cases it is caused by stenotic/thrombotic processes in carotid arteries and this emphasizes the importance of the problem of early diagnosis and treatment of carotid pathology . recently doppler sonography has become a leading non-invasive method of early screening of stenotic processes in carotid arteries . the aim of the present study was to ascertain the diagnostic abilities of doppler sonography for screening of carotid pathology , assessment of extra-cranial and intracranial hemodynamics , defining of indications , and control of vascular reconstructions of carotids . 
significance of u wave polarity in patients with a prior inferior myocardial infarction . sixty consecutive patients who underwent coronary angiography and left ventriculography from six to eight weeks after the onset of definite inferior myocardial infarction were divided into three groups according to the polarity of u waves in ( 1 ) leads ii , iii , a vf and ( 2 ) in leads v4 to v6 ( positive = group p , flat or isoelectric = group f , and negative = group n ) . the following parameters were analyzed : ( 1 ) ecg score ; ( 2 ) global ejection fraction : ( 3 ) regional area change : ( 4 ) number of asynergic , and akinetic segmental radii ; ( 5 ) number of asynergic and akinetic areas : and ( 6 ) number of diseased coronary arteries and the incidence of left anterior descending artery ( lad ) disease . there were no significant differences among the three groups according to the polarity of u waves in two subgroups by the site of u waves in age , gender , systemic blood pressure , and ecg scores . the polarity of u waves in leads ii.iii.a vf ( subgroup 1 ) correlated with the size of myocardial infarction ; regional area changes in inferior segment ( area 2 ) were 64.1 + / - 8.2 in group p1 , 31.8 + / - 14.7 in group f1 , and 21.0 + / - 15.8 in group n1 ( p less than 0.01 , f = 32.8 ) . the polarity of u waves in leads v4-6 ( subgroup2 ) correlated with anterolateral wall motion ; regional area changes in anterolateral segments ( area 5 ) were 76.8 + / - 11.6 in group p , 66.5 + / - 18.5 in group f , and 48.9 + / - 17.1 in group n ( p less than 0.01 , f = 18.6 ) . the incidence of multivessel disease increased from group p2 ( 36.4 % ) , to group f2 ( 54.5 % ) , to group n2 ( 75.0 % ) , and the incidence of lad disease increased from 27.3 % , to 45.5 % , to 68.8 % , respectively . a negative u wave in either location suggested severely decreased apical wall motion , and there was a tendency for global ejection fractions to decrease in the following order : group p , group f , and group n. from these results , the authors conclude that the polarity of u waves may be one of the parameters correlating with the wall motion and left ventricular function in prior inferior myocardial infarction . 
patency rate of implantable devices during long-term intraarterial chemotherapy . intraarterial implantable drug delivery systems have been considered as an alternative method for treating patients with unresectable liver malignancies . however , catheter problems with external implanted devices have resulted in limited application of chemotherapy . the introduction of subcutaneous devices offers an opportunity for long-term locoregional chemotherapy . twelve external intraarterial catheters were implanted into 12 patients and 52 subcutaneously placed devices into 51 patients , all with various hepatic malignancies . retrospective analyses comparing those two intraarterial systems were conducted taking into account the function and complication rate ( hepatic artery thrombosis , infection , leaking , hemorrhage , and dislocation ) . the follow-up time for the external system was two to eight months ( median five weeks ) , the thrombosis rate 33.3 % , and the infection rate 25 % . one instance of severe bleeding from the hepatic artery occurred during chemotherapy . one catheter dislocated . for the subcutaneously implanted intraarterial devices the follow-up time was five to forty-one months ( median sixteen months ) , the thrombotic complication rate 17.3 % , and the infection rate 7.6 % ( all patients with simultaneous bowel surgery ) . catheter dislocation one year later required reimplantation ; in 1 patient therapy had to be discontinued because of a catheter leak . the overall function rate was 71.3 % with a median follow-up time of eight months . anticoagulation therapy for subcutaneously implanted devices starting from the beginning of intraarterial chemotherapy is recommended to achieve long-term patency . no implantation should be preformed simultaneously with bowel surgery . the subcutaneously placed intraarterial devices had a higher function rate and were available for a longer period as compared with external implanted catheters . 
bronchiolar morphology after systemic arterial interruption . to assess ischemic lesions as a factor in obliterative bronchiolitis after lung transplantation , the authors severed the left bronchial arteries of 15 dogs , together with the left stem bronchus , the latter being immediately reanostomosed . they examined the bronchioles at weekly interfals up to three and a half months . on the week chosen each dog was anesthetized , totally heparinized , and exsanguino-perfused with saline . just after heart arrest , the thoracic aorta was injected with a barium solution until this white medium appeared in the bronchial arteries . the heart-lung blocs were excised en bloc , submitted to soft-tissue x ray , fixed , and then sliced to 1 cm . corresponding right and left 5-mm-thick samples of these slices were prepared for contact microradiography followed by histologic 5-to-20-micron-thick , stained , correlated specimens . for two weeks the left bronchial arteries remained empty , but there was no necrosis or edema . between two and four weeks barium solution appeared in the bronchial arteries , and the bronchiolar epithelium had become multistratified . later the left bronchiangiogram became similar to the right , but there were more folds of the mucosa and a little submucosal fibrosis . these studies provide proof that no significant ischemic lesions occurred during repermeation of the bronchiolar vascular bed . ischemia , if existent , is not a significant factor in obliterative bronchiolitis . 
steroid anabolic drugs and arterial complications in an athlete -- a case history . serious side effects and complications have been attributed to anabolic and androgenic steroids when used for medical reasons or when taken in sports in hopes of increasing strength and , hence , performance . the author presents a case of an athlete who experienced two metachronous arterial complications after taking these drugs : a cerebrovascular accident caused by a carotid artery thrombus that partially embolized to the brain and , later , a severe ischemic episode in a lower limb caused by a diffused distal arterial thrombosis . this patient represents the first reported case of vascular events in an otherwise healthy athlete taking androgens to increase his skeletal muscle mass . 
platelet aggregation is not necessary for occurrence of raynaud 's phenomenon : a clinical history and laboratory results . " raynaud 's phenomenon ( r.p. ) is characterized by a spastic vasoconstriction of hand and/or feet extremities leading to painful ischemic attacks . in the pathogeny of this syndrome the role of a platelet hyperactivation was evidenced . nevertheless , the responsibility of platelet aggregation remains controversial . we report here the case of a patient presenting with a glanzmann thrombasthenia defined by the complete lack of platelet aggregation , and showing a typical rp which was confirmed by the measurement of hand temperature and the decrease of digital and hand blood flow . thus , the description of this case shows that platelet aggregation by itself is not necessary for the occurrence of rp , and encourages for therapeutic purposes the development of vasodilatators rather than platelet antiaggregants agents . " . 
large arteries involvement in scleroderma -- a case report . the authors describe a thirty-nine-year-old woman patient presenting with progressive systemic sclerosis and an unusual angiographic picture of an impairment of large arteries , which in their opinion is due to the primary disease . the review literature reports about similar arterial involvement in scleroderma . 
evaluation of ketotifen in corticosteroid-dependent idiopathic anaphylaxis . to study the possible efficacy of ketotifen ( k ) in the treatment of idiopathic anaphylaxis ( ia ) , k was administered in an open-label trial to six patients with ia who required corticosteroids at doses below which their disease could not be controlled . during the study , patients continued to receive noncorticosteroid medications ( eg , antihistamines , oral adrenergic agents ) that had been used on a regular basis for treatment of ia before study , but periodic attempts to reduce corticosteroid doses were made . a reduction of prednisone dose with continued control of disease was judged to be evidence for a beneficial effect of k. after 7 to 16 months of k administration , three patients were judged to have had probable benefits from k ( reductions in alternate day prednisone dose requirement from 40 mg to none , 35 mg to 15 mg , and 30 mg to none ) , and one patient had a possible benefit from k ( dose reduction from 100 to 120 mg to 77 mg ) . two other patients were unable to tolerate major decreases in prednisone without developing symptoms or signs of ia . within the limitations of this study design , we conclude that k may be efficacious in the treatment of some patients with ia , and that further trials of k in the treatment of ia are indicated . 
estrogen replacement and coronary artery disease . effect on survival in postmenopausal women . the relationship among postmenopausal estrogen use , coronary stenosis , and survival was examined retrospectively in 2268 women undergoing coronary angiography . the patients were selected for study if their age was 55 years or older at the time of angiography or if they had previously undergone bilateral oophorectomy . postmenopausal estrogen use in 1178 patients with coronary artery disease ( greater than 70 % stenosis ) and 644 patients with mild to moderate coronary artery disease ( 5 % to 69 % stenosis ) was compared with 446 control subjects ( 0 % stenosis ) using life-table analysis . over 10 years of follow-up , there was no significant difference in survival among patients initially free of coronary lesions on arteriography who had either never used ( 377 ) or ever used ( 69 ) estrogens . among patients with mild to moderate coronary stenosis , 10-year survival of those who had never used estrogens was 85.0 % and it was 95.6 % among 99 " ever users . " survival was 60.0 % among those with more than 70 % coronary stenosis who had never used estrogen and it was 97.0 % among 70 ever users . the " never users " group were older ( 65 vs 59 years ) , had a lower proportion of cigarette smokers ( 40 % vs 57.1 % ) , a higher proportion of subjects with diabetes ( 21.7 % vs 12.9 % ) and hyperlipidemia ( 58 % vs 44 % ) , and approximately equal numbers of hypertensives ( 56.0 % vs 54.3 % ) . cox 's proportional hazards model was used to estimate survival as a function of multiple covariables . estrogen use was found to have a significant , independent effect on survival in women . we conclude that estrogen replacement after menopause prolongs survival when coronary artery disease is present , but it has less effect in the absence of coronary artery disease . 
impact of a public cholesterol screening program . the national cholesterol education program ( ncep ) has endorsed physician case finding as the primary method to detect individuals with elevated cholesterol levels . despite this recommendation , promotional and for-profit public screening programs have flourished . we surveyed participants of a mall-based cholesterol screening program 1 year after their screening . sixty-four percent of those screened had not previously known their cholesterol levels . those who were newly screened were less likely to benefit from this testing than the general public , since they were older ( mean age , 55.3 years ) , more likely to be female ( 67.4 % ) , and nonsmokers ( 88 % ) . screenees had excellent recall of their cholesterol level ( mean absolute reporting error , 0.24 mmol/l [ 9 mg/dl ] ) and a good understanding of cholesterol as a coronary heart disease risk . those with elevated cholesterol levels reported high distress from screening but no reduction in overall psychosocial well-being and an actual decrease in absenteeism . only 53.7 % of all who were advised to seek follow-up because of an elevated screening value had done so within the year following the screening program . however , of those with values greater than 6.2 mmol/l ( 240 mg/dl ) , 68 % had sought follow-up . many of those who participate in public screening programs have been previously tested , fall into low-benefit groups , or fail to comply with recommended follow-up . we therefore conclude that cholesterol screening programs of the type now commonly offered are unlikely to contribute greatly to the national efforts to further reduce coronary heart disease . 
venous hemodynamics in a chronic venous valvular insufficiency model . to develop a large-animal model of chronic venous valve incompetence , 13 greyhound dogs underwent unilateral hindlimb venous valve lysis with a valve cutter apparatus pulled retrograde through the iliac , femoral , and lateral saphenous veins . bilateral venous pressures in the lateral saphenous vein were recorded before valve lysis , immediately after valve lysis , and at intervals from 1 to 14 weeks after valve lysis , with the dogs in the supine position and elevated 80 degrees semierect , as well as after stimulated hindlimb muscle contraction to empty the hindlimb veins . passive venous filling time with elevation and 90 % venous refilling time after muscle contraction were calculated . from immediately after through 14 weeks after valve lysis , a shortened venous filling time and 90 % venous refilling time as well as an elevated poststimulation venous pressure were noted . this valve lysis method successfully produced a hemodynamically verified model of venous valvular insufficiency . 
cardiac risk in vascular surgery . the oral dipyridamole-thallium stress test . the value of the oral dipyridamole-thallium stress test in identifying patients at high risk of myocardial infarction after vascular procedures has not been documented . we studied prospectively 46 patients who underwent an oral dipyridamole-thallium stress test before undergoing vascular operations . twenty patients ( 43 % ) had a positive test result , defined by a thallium defect with reperfusion , while 26 patients had a negative test result . myocardial infarctions were documented postoperatively in 5 ( 25 % ) of 20 of the group with positive results and 1 ( 4 % ) of 26 of the group with negative results . three of the six myocardial infarctions were clinical ; all three were in the group with positive results . no correlation was identified between dipyridamole-thallium stress test results and clinical cardiac history . a positive dipyridamole-thallium stress test result is a more sensitive predictor of postoperative myocardial infarction than ejection fraction or history of coronary artery disease . the oral dipyridamole-thallium stress test is as useful as the intravenous test in this setting . 
the natural history of intimal flaps in a canine model . the natural history of arterial intimal flaps has not been well defined . this study characterizes the natural history of unrepaired intimal flaps . thirty-nine 1 - , 2 - , and 3-mm hemispheric , distally based intimal flaps were made in 4 - to 5-mm diameter canine femoral and carotid arteries . twenty arteries had 2 - and 3-mm intimal flaps and were monitored for short-term arterial thrombosis and flap extension . nineteen had 1 - and 2-mm intimal flaps and were monitored for thrombosis , long-term development of neointimal hyperplasia , arterial stenosis , and persistence of the flap . while 40 % of the arteries with 3-mm intimal flaps developed thrombosis in 3 to 5 days , only 3 % of the arteries with 1 - or 2-mm intimal flaps developed thrombosis . most 1 - to 2-mm intimal flaps resolved and the subsequent development of neointimal hyperplasia or arterial stenosis was minimal . arteries with hemodynamically significant stenoses from intimal flaps warrant repair , while arteries with smaller intimal flaps may not require repair . 
biplane transesophageal echocardiography : technique , image orientation , and preliminary experience in 131 patients . transesophageal echocardiography with use of a uniplane phased-array transducer with a transverse or horizontal scanning plane has become a well-established tool for evaluating cardiovascular diseases . recent introduction of biplane probes has enhanced the diagnostic capability of this imaging technique . this article discusses the technique of biplane transesophageal echocardiographic examination and image orientation . the diagnostic value and advantages of various biplane transesophageal images of the heart , aorta , and aortic arch from various esophageal positions are described . 
transesophageal echocardiography in the diagnosis of ostial left coronary artery stenosis . the diagnosis of ostial stenosis of the left main coronary artery is usually made by use of coronary angiography . however , positioning of the catheter across the obstruction may obscure this diagnosis during contrast injection . although a damping of arterial pressure when the catheter enters the left coronary artery may suggest ostial stenosis , it may not be possible to make this diagnosis with certainty during cardiac catheterization . we report a series of four patients in whom the left coronary ostium and proximal left coronary arteries were visualized by means of transesophageal echocardiography . both ostial narrowing by plaque and abnormally fast flow velocities were seen . in each case the echocardiographic findings contributed to the subsequent management of the patients . 
transesophageal echocardiography during percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty . to ascertain the value of transesophageal echocardiography during percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty , the present study was undertaken in 26 anesthesized patients ( 21 women and 5 men ; mean age , 47 years ) with symptomatic rheumatic mitral valve stenosis . in all but one patient the balloon dilation of the mitral valve was successful and doppler-derived valve area increased ( 0.9 + / - 0.3 to 1.9 + / - 0.4 cm2 ) . transesophageal echocardiography provides continuous monitoring , as well as guidance of the procedure . crossing the arterial septum , as well as delivery of the sheath through the mitral valve orifice and correct positioning of the balloon , was highly facilitated and reduced x-ray exposure time . the degree of mitral regurgitation and the presence of interatrial shunting at the end of the procedure could be readily assessed , making cineangiography not necessary . complications of the procedure , such as pericardial effusion , could be detected before hemodynamic deterioration had occurred ( one patient ) . the advantages of transesophageal echocardiography for routine monitoring of percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty , however , should be weighted against the added risk and expense of this support . 
surgical resection of cor triatriatum in a 74-year-old man . review of echocardiographic findings with emphasis on doppler and transesophageal echocardiography . a 74-year-old man was admitted to the hospital with congestive heart failure secondary to cor triatriatum . he also had sick sinus syndrome with complete heart block and syncope that had been treated with a permanent pacemaker 20 years earlier . the patient underwent successful surgical resection of the atrial membrane with closure of an atrial septal defect . m-mode , two-dimensional , doppler , and transesophageal echocardiographic findings are reviewed . a unique " spike and dome " pattern on continuous-wave doppler echocardiography is described that may suggest diagnosis of cor triatriatum . 
transesophageal echocardiography in the diagnosis of left atrial appendage aneurysm . intrapericardial left atrial appendage aneurysm is rare . we describe the transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiographic findings in a 42-year-old man with atrial arrhythmia and an abnormal left atrial appendage on chest roentgenogram . presence of an intrapericardial left atrial appendage aneurysm was confirmed at surgery . 
severe tricuspid regurgitation after mitral valve repair : diagnosis by intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography . transesophageal echocardiography facilitates the evaluation of valvular repair in the operating room . the functional valvular morphology and degree of valvular regurgitation can be assessed before and after repair . this technique can also identify unsuspected findings -- in this case , severe tricuspid regurgitation complicating cardiopulmonary bypass . we report a previously undescribed cause of traumatic tricuspid regurgitation . 
evidence of hibernating myocardium by a new transesophageal echocardiographic technique . reversal of resting wall motion abnormalities after successful coronary angioplasty were documented in a patient with the use of a novel approach to stress testing . transesophageal stress echocardiography utilizes transesophageal atrial pacing to provoke myocardial ischemia while the left ventricular contractility is being monitored by means of transesophageal echocardiography . the potential use of this technique is illustrated in this report . 
streptococcal endocarditis temporally related to transesophageal echocardiography . a case of streptococcal sanguis endocarditis temporally related to a transesophageal echocardiogram is reported ; and the literature on the incidence of bacteremia occurring during transesophageal echocardiography is reviewed . on the basis of this case and review of the literature , a reevaluation of the current guidelines for endocarditis prophylaxis during this procedure is recommended . 
prevalence of coronary heart disease in scotland : scottish heart health study data from 10,359 men and women aged 40-59 years from 22 districts in the scottish heart health study were used to describe the prevalence rates of coronary heart disease in scotland in 1984-1986 and their relation to the geographical variation in mortality in these districts . prevalence was measured by previous history , rose chest pain questionnaire , and the minnesota code of a 12 lead resting electrocardiogram . the prevalence of coronary heart disease in scotland was high compared with studies from other countries that used the same standardised methods . a history of angina was more common in men ( 5.5 % ) than in women ( 3.9 % ) , though in response to the rose questionnaire 8.5 % of women and 6.3 % of men reported chest pain . a history of myocardial infarction was three times more common in men than women , as was a q/qs pattern on the electrocardiogram . there were significant correlations between the different measures of coronary prevalence . district measures of angina correlated well with mortality from coronary heart disease , and these correlations tended to be stronger in women than in men . there was no significant correlation between mortality from coronary heart disease and measures of myocardial infarction . the study provides data on the prevalence of coronary heart disease in men and women that are valuable for the planning of cardiological services . 
transient myocardial ischaemia after acute myocardial infarction . the prevalence and characteristics of transient myocardial ischaemia were studied in 203 patients with recent acute myocardial infarction by both early ( 6.4 days ) and late ( 38 days ) ambulatory monitoring of the st segment . transient st segment depression was much commoner during late ( 32 % patients ) than early ( 14 % ) monitoring . most transient ischaemia ( greater than 85 % episodes ) was silent and 80 % of patients had only silent episodes . during late monitoring painful st depression was accompanied by greater st depression and tended to occur at a higher heart rate . late transient ischaemia showed a diurnal distribution , occurred at a higher initial heart rate , and was more often accompanied by a further increase in heart rate than early ischaemia . thus in the first 2 months after myocardial infarction transient ischaemia became increasingly common and more closely associated with increased myocardial oxygen demand . because transient ischaemic episodes during early and late ambulatory monitoring have dissimilar characteristics they may also have different pathophysiologies and prognostic implications . 
relation between intraventricular pressure and volume in diastole . the pressure-volume curves for 10 patients with various types of heart disease were studied throughout mid to late diastole when both pressure and volume were increasing . the results were used to test a currently held theory that the form of this relation is exponential . it was found that for the patients examined this hypothesis was not valid . 
operative findings after percutaneous pulmonary balloon dilatation of the right ventricular outflow tract in tetralogy of fallot . since 1983 percutaneous balloon dilatation of the right ventricular outflow tract has been performed as an alternative to surgical palliation in selected cases of tetralogy of fallot at the royal liverpool children 's hospital . from 31 december 1984 to 31 december 1988 , 27 of these patients underwent subsequent surgical correction . age at operation ranged from 7 to 58 months ( median 2.7 years ) . the mean interval between balloon dilatation and correction was 15.6 months ( range 3-39 months ) . two patients had a systemic pulmonary shunt operation performed before dilatation and a further five required one afterwards . overall 20 ( 74 % ) patients had some anatomical alteration as the result of balloon dilatation , while in seven ( 26 % ) there was no discernible change in the right ventricular outflow tract . there was no consistent relation between the ratio of balloon size to pulmonary annulus diameter and the morphological findings . balloon dilatation may obviate the need for systemic-pulmonary shunt at the expense of some structural damage , particularly to the posterior cusp . the present data suggest that dilatation does not bring about growth of the annulus to such an extent that transannular patch is no longer needed at intracardiac repair . 
tetralogy of fallot with anomalous pulmonary venous connections : a rare but clinically important association . anomalous pulmonary venous connections were found in seven ( 0.6 % ) of 1183 patients with tetralogy of fallot . three patients had totally anomalous connections ( one supracardiac , one direct to coronary sinus , and one mixed supracardiac and infracardiac ) and four patients had partially anomalous pulmonary venous connections . all patients presented with the clinical features of tetralogy of fallot . anomalous pulmonary venous drainage was suspected clinically in only one patient in whom there was a scimitar sign on the chest radiograph . the exact diagnosis was established by cross sectional echocardiography ( one ) , preoperative or postoperative angiography ( five ) , or at necropsy ( one ) . surgery was performed in six patients . total correction without re-routing of the anomalously draining veins was successful in all those with partially anomalous connections , with no significant long term sequelae ( follow up median 17 years ) . of those with totally anomalous connections , the full diagnosis was made only at necropsy in one patient , successful one-stage correction was performed in one , and the other patient , who had partially obstructed mixed drainage , died shortly after one-stage correction . histological examination of the lung biopsy specimen in this patient showed grade 2 pulmonary vascular disease . tetralogy of fallot with anomalous pulmonary venous connections is a rare association . careful preoperative assessment is required in those with totally anomalous connections . 
diagnostic echocardiographic features of the sinus venosus defect . to establish the diagnostic criteria for a sinus venosus atrial septal defect cross sectional echocardiograms , cineangiograms , and surgical notes of all patients with this diagnosis seen at the children 's hospital of pittsburgh between 1986 and 1988 were reviewed . seven patients were identified . in each the extent of the atrial septum and the nature of the junction of the superior vena cava with the atria were evaluated echocardiographically from the subcostal position . all had overriding of the superior vena cava and abnormally connected right pulmonary veins . six patients had undergone cardiac catheterisation and cineangiography . five patients underwent surgical repair . the operative findings were consistent with the expected morphology in all five , and these features were additionally confirmed in a specimen from the cardiopathological museum . therefore , the basic anatomical feature of a superior sinus venosus interatrial communication is a biatrial connection of the superior vena cava . this , together with anomalous drainage of the right sided pulmonary veins , results in an interatrial communication outside the confines of the true atrial septum . overriding of the superior vena cava across the upper rim of the oval fossa is suggested as the pathognomonic diagnostic feature that can clearly be demonstrated echocardiographically from the subcostal position . in essence the lesion is an interatrial communication rather than an atrial septal defect . 
coarctation of the aorta and post-stenotic aneurysm formation . despite earlier angiography , post-stenotic aneurysm of the aorta was an unexpected finding at operation in two patients with coarctation . one aneurysm was found in an intercostal artery in a 19 year old man and the other was a false aneurysm just distal to the coarctation site in a 7 year old boy . these aneurysms are fragile , apt to rupture , and difficult to diagnose preoperatively . though local factors such as jet streams and bacterial endocarditis may influence their formation there must be an underlying generalised weakness in the arterial wall . a coarctation should not be regarded as an isolated arterial abnormality because it may be a feature of a more generalised disease . because of the risk of rupture , which may not be prevented by antihypertensive treatment , operation should not be delayed in any age group . 
supravalvar aortic stenosis : a complication of aortic valve surgery . after a patient had aortic valvotomy and aortotomy for the relief of valvar aortic stenosis supravalvar stenosis developed over the next six years . 
restoration of sinus rhythm during two consecutive pregnancies in a woman with congenital complete heart block . in a woman with congenital complete heart block atrioventricular conduction was normal during two successive pregnancies . pregnancy , labour , and delivery were uncomplicated on both occasions and complete heart block returned post partum . 
eustachian valve endocarditis . m mode and cross sectional echocardiography showed a highly mobile globular pedunculated mass ( 3.0 cm long with a maximum diameter of i. 5 cm ) attached to the eustachian valve in a heroin addict with staphylococcal endocarditis . 
balloon dilatation of the mitral valve by a single bifoil ( 2 x 19 mm ) or trefoil ( 3 x 15 mm ) catheter . the efficacy of balloon dilatation of the mitral valve by a bifoil ( 2 x 19 mm ) or trefoil ( 3 x 15 mm ) catheter ( single catheter technique ) was assessed in 53 patients ( mean age 28 ) with mitral stenosis , most of whom were women . the procedure was unsuccessful in three patients . after balloon dilatation the left atrial pressure decreased from 22 mm hg to 13 mm hg and the mitral valve gradient from 12 mm hg to 4 mm hg . the mitral valve area increased from 0.7 cm2 to 2.1 cm2 . exercise time on the standard bruce protocol increased from 3.9 minutes to 7.2 minutes . in 22 ( 44 % ) patients mitral regurgitation developed or the grade of regurgitation increased . left to right shunts with pulmonary to systemic flow ratios greater than 1:5 were detected in four patients . transient cerebrovascular episodes developed in two patients . one patient died after emergency valve replacement for severe mitral regurgitation . balloon dilatation of the mitral valve by the single catheter technique with the bifoil or trefoil catheters is an effective treatment for patients with mitral stenosis . mild mitral regurgitation is a frequent complication of the procedure . 
familial paroxysmal kinesigenic ataxia and continuous myokymia . a large family with paroxysmal ataxia and continuous myokymic discharges is described . the disorder is of autosomal dominant inheritance . during attacks coordination of movements and balance are disturbed ; often a postural tremor of the head and the hands and fine twitching in some of the facial and hand muscles are present . the attacks usually last a few minutes and may occur several times per day . they first appear in childhood and tend to abate after early adulthood . the attacks are frequently precipitated by kinesigenic stimuli similar to those in paroxysmal kinesigenic choreoathetosis . their occurrence can be reduced or prevented by carbonic anhydrase inhibitors . between attacks a slight postural tremor and ataxia was found in a few of the elderly affected members . fine rippling myokymia was obvious in a few and could be detected on close inspection in about half of the adults . electromyography ( emg ) showed myokymic discharges in all affected members . the characteristics and reactivity of this myokymic activity suggest multiple impulse generation in the peripheral nerves . 
interleukin-2-induced lung permeability is mediated by leukotriene b4 . interleukin ( il ) -2 therapy leads to respiratory dysfunction due to increased vascular permeability . this study examines the role of the chemoattractant , immunomodulator , and permeability-promoting agent leukotriene ( lt ) b4 in this setting . sheep with chronic lung lymph fistulae were given il-2 , 10 ( 5 ) u/kg as an iv bolus ( n = 6 ) . within 2 hours this led to a significant increase in ltb4 levels in both plasma and lung lymph . the mean pulmonary artery pressure ( mpap ) rose while the pulmonary artery wedge pressure was unchanged . arterial oxygen tension ( pao2 ) fell . lung lymph flow ( ql ) was tripled ( p less than 0.05 ) at 3 hours , coinciding with an increase in the lymph/plasma ( l/p ) protein ratio ( p less than 0.05 ) resulting in an increase in the lymph protein clearance ( p less than 0.05 ) , data documenting increased microvascular permeability to protein . mild leukopenia and thrombocytopenia ( p less than 0.05 ) occurred . body temperature rose and shaking chills were common . pretreatment with the lipoxygenase inhibitor diethylcarbamazine ( dec ; n = 6 ) reduced baseline plasma ltb4 levels and prevented the il-2-induced increases in ltb4 in plasma and lung lymph ( p less than 0.05 ) . in contrast to il-2 treatment alone , dec blunted the increase in mpap and prevented the rises in ql ( p less than 0.05 ) , l/p protein ratio ( p less than 0.05 ) , and lymph protein clearance ( p less than 0.05 ) . dec also prevented the il-2-induced leukopenia , the fall in platelet count , and the rise in body temperature ( p less than 0.05 , respectively ) . infusion of il-2 excipient control ( n = 5 ) did not affect plasma or lymph ltb4 levels but there were mild increases in mpap ( p less than 0.05 ) . the ql also rose but this occurred while the l/p protein ratio fell ( p less than 0.05 ) . body temperature rose moderately . the pao2 , leukocyte , and platelet counts were unaffected . these data indicate that il-2 administration leads to pulmonary dysfunction manifest by pulmonary hypertension and increased vascular permeability , events associated with ltb4 synthesis and prevented by dec . leukotriene b4 appears therefore to mediate the il-2-induced lung injury . 
baroreflex control of renal sympathetic nerve activity is potentiated at early phase of two-kidney , one-clip goldblatt hypertension in conscious rabbits . conscious normotensive and two-kidney , one-clip goldblatt hypertensive rabbits were studied to determine the sensitivity of the arterial baroreflex control of renal sympathetic nerve activity ( rsna ) and heart rate . the relations of the mean arterial pressure-rsna and mean arterial pressure-heart rate were examined over a wide range of blood pressures produced by infusions of phenylephrine and nitroglycerin . the maximum slope obtained by logistic function analysis was considered to represent the baroreflex sensitivity . in the early hypertensive group ( n = 8 ; mean arterial pressure + / - sem , 88 + / - 2 mm hg ) on day 5 after renal clip application , the maximum slope of the mean arterial pressure-rsna relation was -11.3 + / - 1.2 , which was significantly greater than that of the sham normotensive group ( -6.9 + / - 0.3 , p less than 0.05 ) . the maximum slope ( -4.3 + / - 0.2 ) of the mean arterial pressure-rsna relation in the late hypertensive group ( n = 8 ; mean arterial pressure , 96 + / - 3 mm hg ) on day 21 after renal clipping was significantly smaller than that of another sham group ( -7.2 + / - 0.2 , p less than 0.05 ) . in contrast to these changes in the baroreflex control of rsna , the control of heart rate was attenuated according to the magnitude of mean arterial pressure . to elucidate the mechanisms underlying the potentiated baroreflex , the effects of endogenous neuropeptides were investigated . first , plasma concentrations of angiotensin ii and arginine vasopressin that are known to affect the baroreflex were determined . plasma concentrations of vasopressin ( 3.1 + / - 0.6 pg/ml ) as well as of angiotensin ii ( 34 + / - 7 pg/ml ) were increased in the early hypertensive group , and the plasma vasopressin returned to a similar level to the sham group in the late hypertensive group ( 1.3 + / - 0.4 pg/ml ) . second , to study endogenous effects of these neuropeptides on the baroreflex , the maximum slopes of the baroreflex curves during infusions of antagonists for the peptides were determined in the early hypertensive group . the maximum slope of mean arterial pressure-rsna during intravertebral arterial [ sar1 , ala8 ] - angiotensin ii ( -16.4 + / - 1.5 ) was significantly greater ( p less than 0.05 ) , whereas the maximum slope during intravertebral arterial infusion of d ( ch2 ) 5tyr ( me ) arginine vasopressin ( -4.7 + / - 0.5 ) was significantly smaller ( p less than 0.05 ) than that during vehicle infusion ( -11.3 + / - 1.2 ) . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
regional changes in creatine kinase and myocyte size in hypertensive and nonhypertensive cardiac hypertrophy . several intracellular enzymes have been shown to have altered total activity or isoenzyme composition in cardiac hypertrophy . this study tests the hypothesis that the accumulation of the fetal-type ( bb + mb ) creatine kinase ( ck ) isoenzymes in hypertrophied adult myocardium is related to an increase in blood pressure . consideration was made for the location , size , and hemodynamic load of the myocytes . by using the two-kidney , one-clip ( 2k1c ) rat model of renal hypertension with and without hydralazine treatment , ck ( total and isoenzyme ) , lactate dehydrogenase , and citrate synthase activities and myocyte size were measured . an increased heart weight/body weight ratio occurred in both untreated 2k1c rats ( 4.15 + / - 0.09 ) and hydralazine-treated 2k1c rats ( 4.12 + / - 0.13 ) as compared with control rats ( 3.25 + / - 0.10 ) . blood pressure was high only in untreated 2k1c rats ( 196 + / - 9 mm hg ) , as compared with hydralazine-treated 2k1c rats ( 142 + / - 6 mm hg ) and control rats ( 135 + / - 3 mm hg ) . myocytes were isolated from five ventricular regions : left ventricular epicardial and endocardial free wall , left and right halves of the interventricular septum , and right ventricular free wall . regional differences in normal and hypertrophied myocardium were demonstrated for morphological and biochemical parameters , with the greatest changes occurring in left ventricular endocardium . the shift in ck isoenzyme expression toward accumulating more bb + mb was greater in " hypertensive hypertrophy " ( untreated 2k1c rats ) than in " nonhypertensive hypertrophy " ( hydralazine-treated 2k1c rats ) . calculations incorporating isolated myocyte volume showed that the cellular content of total ck remained the same during the hypertrophic process , accounting for a decrease in the tissue activity . measurement of lactate dehydrogenase and citrate synthase activities suggests that hypertrophied myocardium has relatively higher glycolytic capacity and that this effect is exacerbated in the presence of high blood pressure . we conclude that increased blood pressure is more closely linked to the fetal ck isoenzyme shift than is hypertrophy alone . 
remodeling of the rat right and left ventricles in experimental hypertension . pathological left ventricular hypertrophy in renovascular hypertension is associated with the accumulation of fibrillar collagen within the extracellular space and around intramyocardial coronary arteries . even though the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor captopril was previously found to attenuate this interstitial and perivascular fibrosis , the relative importance of arterial and ventricular systolic pressures versus circulating angiotensin ii ( aii ) and aldosterone ( al ) in promoting hypertrophy and collagen accumulation in renovascular hypertension is uncertain . by drawing on the in-parallel arrangement of the right and left ventricles , with respect to their coronary circulation , and the in-series mechanical alignment of the ventricles , with a pressure-overloaded left and a normotensive right ventricle , this study sought to address this uncertainty . three models of experimental hypertension , each having a different circulating aii and al profile , were examined and compared with their controls : renovascular hypertension , where both aii and al are increased ; infrarenal aorta banding , where aii and al are normal ; and a chronic infusion of al , where aii is suppressed or normal and al is increased . in renovascular hypertension , as well as with al , we found a significant rise in the interstitial collagen volume fraction and perivascular collagen area of the pressure-overloaded , hypertrophied left ventricle as well as the normotensive , nonhypertrophied right ventricle . this remodeling was not seen in either ventricle with infrarenal aorta banding despite comparable systemic hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy . thus , in experimental arterial hypertension in the rat , myocyte and nonmyocyte compartments of the myocardium are under separate controls : myocyte hypertrophy is most closely related to ventricular loading while circulating aii and al , acting alone or in concert with other humoral factors , regulate the accumulation of collagen within the right and left ventricles . 
chronic calcium channel blockade prevents the progression of myocardial contractile and electrical dysfunction in the cardiomyopathic syrian hamster . the programmed onset of myocardial dysfunction and its progression to congestive heart failure in the cardiomyopathic syrian hamster is hallmarked by alterations in myocellular calcium regulation . to determine whether calcium channel blockade is effective in halting the progressive depression of myocardial contractile performance in this animal model of congestive heart failure , oral verapamil therapy was instituted at 50 days of age , and treatment continued for various durations until the time of study at either 150 or 250 days of age . left ventricular papillary muscle isometric and isotonic performance , as well as transmembrane electrical characteristics , was depressed in diseased hamsters at 150 days of age and deteriorated further by 250 days of age . these changes were evidenced by prolongation of contraction duration , a marked depression in the load-velocity relation , and a significant prolongation in the repolarization phase of the transmembrane action potential . myocardial functional and electrical alterations associated with the progression of life in myopathic hamsters were completely halted by verapamil therapy that was continuous from 50 days after birth until death by diastolic arrest , at 150 or 250 days of age . however , premature termination of verapamil treatment before death resulted in a progressive renewal of the functional and electrical alterations for the duration of drug termination . it is concluded that the pathological changes seen during the lifetime of the cardiomyopathic hamster can be prevented by continuous calcium channel blockade and that intermediate prevention can be attained by protracted verapamil therapy . thus , chronic verapamil therapy may be a useful adjunct in the prevention of human congestive heart failure of similar etiology . 
enhanced chemiluminescence as a measure of oxygen-derived free radical generation during ischemia and reperfusion . it has been suggested that oxygen-derived free radicals may contribute to the myocardial injury associated with ischemia and reperfusion . as the presence of enhanced free radical generation is a prerequisite for such damage , several techniques have been used to provide evidence of increased oxygen free radical production during reperfusion ; however , all such techniques have substantial limitations . in this study , we used enhanced chemiluminescence to evaluate oxygen free radical generation during ischemia and reperfusion in the isolated langendorff-perfused rat heart . the chemiluminescent technique , which has high sensitivity and can monitor radical generation continuously , avoids some of the limitations of earlier methods . chemiluminescence ( expressed as counts per second ) decreased from 219 + / - 11 at baseline to 142 + / - 9 during ischemia and markedly increased to a peak of 476 + / - 36 during the first 3-5 minutes of reperfusion . this was followed by a slow decline over 11-16 minutes to a steady-state level of 253 + / - 14 ( each sequential change in chemiluminescence was highly significant ; p less than 0.001 ) . superoxide dismutase ( 2,000 units/min ) significantly decreased peak reperfusion chemiluminescence to 316 + / - 17 ( p less than 0.01 ) . hearts subjected to a second period of ischemia and reperfusion had a higher peak chemiluminescence ( 626 + / - 62 ) , which also was significantly attenuated by 1,000 units/min superoxide dismutase ( 398 + / - 16 ; p less than 0.01 ) . 
collagen phenotypes during development and regression of myocardial hypertrophy in spontaneously hypertensive rats . the myocardium contains collagen matrix that is a major determinant of its architecture , structural integrity , and mechanical properties . this fibrillar matrix consists primarily of type i and type iii collagens having epimysial , perimysial , and endomysial components . the present study shows the alteration of collagen phenotypes during the evolution of hypertensive hypertrophy . therapy with captopril , an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor that regresses cardiac hypertrophy , not only reduces the total amount of collagen but reverses the altered distribution of type i and type iii collagen . in normotensive rats , captopril did not significantly reduce collagen content or alter the ratio of type i to type iii collagen . 
regeneration of myocardial phosphocreatine in pigs despite continued moderate ischemia . the effects of 1 hour of mild and moderate reductions in coronary blood flow on myocardial high-energy phosphate levels were evaluated . thirty anesthetized pigs were instrumented with left anterior descending arterial and venous catheters , crystals for instantaneous wall thickness , and a fluid-filled occluder . measurement of myocardial blood flow was performed with microspheres , and a series of myocardial biopsies also was performed . in 10 pigs , overall coronary blood flow was lowered by 22 % , with a fall in subendocardial-to-subepicardial flow ratio from 1.11 to 0.54 and in wall thickening from 33 % to 15 % . subendocardial flow fell 48 % . coronary blood flow and thickening were constant during 1 hour of ischemia . phosphocreatine ( mumol/g wet wt ) in the subendocardial third of the ischemic zone fell from 7.6 to 3.8 at 5 minutes of ischemia ( p less than 0.005 versus control ) and returned to normal ( 7.9 ) at 60 minutes ( p = ns ) , despite ongoing ischemia . subendocardial atp ( mumol/g wet wt ) fell slowly from 4.3 and leveled off at 2.1 at 60 minutes of ischemia ( p less than 0.001 versus control ) . similar regeneration of phosphocreatine was found in seven additional pigs , with a 43 % transmural reduction in coronary blood flow and a 66 % reduction in subendocardial flow . no significant changes in atp and phosphocreatine were noted in two different control groups ( n = 13 pigs ) . the regeneration of phosphocreatine despite ongoing ischemia and low atp levels was not related to changes in myocardial oxygen demand or consumption , or in regional function during the period of ischemia . this may reflect 1 ) a successful downregulation of the energy needs of the ischemic myocardium to maintain cell viability , or 2 ) a metabolic abnormality in the ability of the cells to produce atp primarily or by use of phosphocreatine . 
the fat embolism syndrome . a review . while fat embolism occurs in most ( more than 90 % ) patients with traumatic injury , the fat embolism syndrome ( fes ) occurs in only 3 % -4 % of patients with long-bone fractures . fes involves multiple organ systems and can cause a devastating clinical deterioration within hours . the major clinical features of fes include hypoxia , pulmonary edema , central nervous system depression , and axillary or subconjunctive petechiae . improvements have been made in supporting the respiratory compromise and adult respiratory distress syndrome that these patients develop . aggressive measures to improve the pulmonary function , i.e. , positive pressure ventilation and effective fluid management , are important and expedite fixation of bone fractures . 
femoral artery cannulation for monitoring in critically ill children : prospective study . seventy-seven attempted percutaneous femoral artery cannulations were prospectively evaluated in 74 children . artery cannulation was successfully accomplished in 73 ( 95 % ) cases and lasted for a mean of 6 days . sixty percent of the catheters were inserted on the first attempt . fifty-two ( 71 % ) patients weighed less than 10 kg and 55 ( 75 % ) patients were less than 12 months old . fifty-one ( 70 % ) patients received inotropic support at the time of cannulation , and 27 ( 37 % ) eventually died from causes unrelated to catheter insertion . there was one episode each of line-associated infection and transient distal ischemia not resulting in tissue loss , and two episodes of catheter malfunction . in eight ( 11 % ) patients , signs of distal vascular insufficiency developed shortly catheter placement and resolved after catheter removal . the development of this complication correlated significantly ( p less than .05 ) with younger age ( 5.5 vs. 22.3 months ) . we conclude that femoral artery cannulation has a high degree of success in very small , critically ill children . it should be considered an acceptable alternative to small-vessel cannulation when the latter is not technically achievable , or in the unstable patient where rapid establishment of reliable arterial access is necessary . 
platelet-activating factor : evidence against a role in hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction . the mechanism of hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction ( hpv ) remains unknown . the platelet-activating factor ( paf ) antagonist web 2086 attenuated hpv in the isolated lung model of the rat . we evaluated the effect of web 2086 on hpv in an intact animal . pigs were anesthetized , mechanically ventilated , and had their hemodynamic variables monitored with a pulmonary artery catheter and arterial line . cardiac output was measured by thermodilution . initial studies determined that paf ( 0.03 to 1.0 micrograms ) injected iv dose-dependently increased pulmonary vascular resistance ( pvr ) with a 262 + / - 58 % increase in pvr 5 min after a dose of 1.0 microgram . web 2086 ( 25 mg/kg iv ) completely blocked the increase in pvr caused by iv paf . additionally , indomethacin ( 2 mg/kg followed by 2 mg/kg . h iv ) treatment of the animals attenuated the paf-induced increase in pvr . to evaluate the effect of web 2086 on hpv , animals were alternately ventilated with 21 % oxygen and 10-min periods of 10 % oxygen to induce hpv . after three initial control episodes of hypoxic ventilation , web 2086 ( 25 mg/kg ) was injected iv and two more episodes of ventilation with 10 % oxygen were given . during the three control hpv episodes the increases in pvr were 80 + / - 10 % , 108 + / - 10 % , and 107 + / - 22 % ( n = 5 ) . after web 2086 , the increase in pvr during two episodes of hypoxia were 96 + / - 28 % and 99 + / - 19 % , respectively , which was not significantly different from the control response to hypoxia . we conclude that iv paf dose dependently increases pvr in pigs , and can be blocked by web 2086 , that its effect is partially mediated through cyclooxygenase products , and that paf does not appear to mediate hpv in this species . 
cardiac involvement in aids . cardiac involvement in aids may occur at any stage of hiv disease and may manifest as congestive cardiomyopathy , potentially lethal arrhythmia , or pericardial effusion and tamponade . the heart may be affected by nearly all of the opportunistic infections and many of the malignancies associated with the syndrome . although often clinically unobtrusive , cardiac lesions may be important in the pathogenesis of significant clinical symptoms and play an often unrecognized role in the prognosis and natural history of aids . 
use of pulmonary artery catheters in patients with acute myocardial infarction . analysis of experience in 5,841 patients in the sprint registry . sprint study group this study analyzes the use of pac in a registry comprising 5,841 hospitalized patients with ami . a total of 371 patients received pac . in-hospital mortality was higher in patients with chf who received pac , while there was no difference in patients with cardiogenic shock or persistent hypotension . mortality in patients receiving pac was higher irrespective of the presence or absence of " pump failure . " a separate analysis of discharge summaries of 364 patients with chf showed that pac was used more frequently in sicker patients and that when severity of chf was assessed , no difference in mortality was found in patients with mild or moderate chf . we conclude that while a higher in-hospital mortality is found in patients receiving pac , this excess is likely related to difference in severity of chf , which had not been assessed in every individual . it is unlikely that pac increases mortality . 
diagnostic value of maximal exercise tidal volume . though breathing pattern is frequently analyzed during clinical exercise testing , there is little information regarding its usefulness in the differential diagnosis of impaired exercise tolerance . this study tested the hypothesis that differences in peak tidal volume during exercise between patients with different cardiorespiratory diseases are related largely to differences in severity of respiratory mechanical impairment ( vital capacity ) , not to differences in disease state . patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , restrictive lung disease , bronchial asthma , and heart disease ( mitral valve disease or left ventricular dysfunction ) were studied . subjects selected had one and only one of the above diagnoses . all subjects performed maximal ( symptom-limited ) incremental exercise on a cycle ergometer . multiple linear regression of all subjects ( n = 30 ) in all four groups showed a significant correlation between vtmax and vc : vtmax = 0.55 , vc -0.09 l ( r = 0.827 , p less than 0.0001 ) . the vtmax/vc ( x 100 ) was ( mean + / - sd ) 44 + / - 15 , 54 + / - 11 , 56 + / - 11 , and 54 + / - 12 for the copd , rld , ba and hd patients respectively . there was no significant difference between any of the groups . we concluded that differences in vtmax between different patients are related largely to differences in vc ( ie , differences in severity of respiratory mechanical impairment ) , not to differences in disease state . measurement of vtmax or the vtmax/vc ratio has little value in the differential diagnosis of exertional dyspnea . 
systemic hypertension in sleep apnea syndrome . relationship with sleep architecture and breathing abnormalities . to examine the possible relationship between systemic ht and sas we compared 21 hypertensive ( ht + ) and 29 normotensive ( ht - ) patients for morphologic characteristics , sleep disturbances and respiratory events monitored during a full night polysomnography . there was no significant difference between ht + and ht - patients with respect to age , weight , bmi , sleep stage distribution and disorganization , apnea-hypopnea index ( number of episodes per hour of sleep ) and duration ( minutes per hour of sleep ) nor o2 saturation indices : mean nocturnal and minimum o2 saturation . we conclude therefore that ht in sas patients is not directly related to morphologic characteristics , sleep disturbances and breathing abnormalities . 
optimal interpretation of the supine exercise electrocardiogram in patients with right bundle branch block . a detailed analysis of the exercise ecg was performed in 82 patients with right bundle branch block who underwent supine exercise equilibrium radionuclide angiography . the sensitivity and specificity of each individual electrocardiographic lead for the detection of a positive radionuclide angiogram was determined . leads v5 and v6 had a sensitivity of 58 percent and a specificity of 89 percent . the limb leads and lead v4 had a lower sensitivity , but an equivalent specificity . leads v1 and v3 each had a clearly lower specificity that ranged from 56 to 67 percent . receiver operating characteristic curve analysis demonstrated that the optimal interpretation of the exercise ecg included the limb leads and v4 to v6 , but not v1 to v3 . the results of coronary angiography in the subset of 16 patients who underwent this procedure confirmed these findings . 
clinical antecedents to in-hospital cardiopulmonary arrest . while the outcome of in-hospital cardiopulmonary arrest has been studied extensively , the clinical antecedents of arrest are less well defined . we studied a group of consecutive general hospital ward patients developing cardiopulmonary arrest . prospectively determined definitions of underlying pathophysiology , severity of underlying disease , patient complaints , and clinical observations were used to determine common clinical features . sixty-four patients arrested 161 + / - 26 hours following hospital admission . pathophysiologic alterations preceding arrest were classified as respiratory in 24 patients ( 38 percent ) , metabolic in 7 ( 11 percent ) , cardiac in 6 ( 9 percent ) , neurologic in 4 ( 6 percent ) , multiple in 17 ( 27 percent ) , and unclassified in 6 ( 9 percent ) . patients with multiple disturbances had mainly respiratory ( 39 percent ) and metabolic ( 44 percent ) disorders . fifty-four patients ( 84 percent ) had documented observations of clinical deterioration or new complaints within eight hours of arrest . seventy percent of all patients had either deterioration of respiratory or mental function observed during this time . routine laboratory tests obtained before arrest showed no consistent abnormalities , but vital signs showed a mean respiratory rate of 29 + / - 1 breaths per minute . the prognoses of patients ' underlying diseases were classified as ultimately fatal in 26 ( 41 percent ) , nonfatal in 23 ( 36 percent ) , and rapidly fatal in 15 ( 23 percent ) . five patients ( 8 percent ) survived to hospital discharge . patients developing arrest on the general hospital ward services have predominantly respiratory and metabolic derangements immediately preceding their arrests . their underlying diseases are generally not rapidly fatal . arrest is frequently preceded by a clinical deterioration involving either respiratory or mental function . these features and the high mortality associated with arrest suggest that efforts to predict and prevent arrest might prove beneficial . 
pulmonary vascular steal in chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension . after pulmonary thromboendarterectomy , performed for relief of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension , perfusion lung scans have frequently disclosed new perfusion defects in segments served by undissected pulmonary arteries . our hypotheses were that these new postoperative defects occurred with great frequency and did not represent postoperative vessel occlusion . we retrospectively reviewed the preoperative and postoperative perfusion scans of 33 consecutive patients undergoing pulmonary thromboendarterectomy . new postoperative perfusion defects were noted in 23 of 33 patients . the incidence of new defects was increased tenfold in segments that had ( 1 ) normal preoperative angiographic findings , ( 2 ) normal preoperative radionuclide perfusion , and ( 3 ) not been entered at the time of surgery . postoperative angiograms , available in 15 of 33 patients , documented the nonembolic , nonocclusive nature of the new perfusion scan defects . the most plausible alternate explanation for this previously undescribed finding is a redistribution of pulmonary arterial resistance induced by the thromboendarterectomy , namely , a pulmonary vascular " steal . " . 
acute myocardial infarction resulting from the migration of a greenfield filter . a paraplegic patient who underwent the placement of greenfield filters to prevent pulmonary emboli had one of the filters migrate proximally to the junction of the inferior vena cava and right atrium , then into the right atrium a few months later . this resulted in an acute myocardial infarction by apparently causing an intimal dissection of the posterior descending artery . treatment , follow-up and causes of filter migration are discussed . 
management of brucella endocarditis with aortic root abscess . three cases of brucella endocarditis with aortic root abscess are reported . two patients were successfully managed by a combination of medical therapy and surgery . the third patient died suddenly 36 hours after admission to hospital . 
influence of obesity , impaired glucose tolerance , and niddm on ldl structure and composition . possible link between hyperinsulinemia and atherosclerosis . the possible causes of the enhanced risk for coronary heart disease ( chd ) were examined in morbidly obese women with normoglycemia , impaired glucose tolerance ( igt ) , and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) before and after gastric bypass surgery . compared with age-matched lean women , plasma lipid and apolipoprotein concentrations of the obese women before surgery favored atherogenesis . the risk for chd may further be exacerbated in the igt and niddm groups by the prevalence of smaller and denser low-density-lipoprotein ( ldl ) particles . ldl size correlated negatively with plasma insulin levels independent of triglyceride levels , age , or body mass index ( bmi ) . after surgery , bmi , plasma insulin , and triglyceride levels decreased , but ldl size increased , and ldl density decreased . neither cholesterol nor ldl cholesterol levels were affected after surgery , but high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol was increased in all patients after surgery . although the mechanisms underlying the changes in the properties of ldl could not be determined from this study , these changes appear to be of benefit in reducing chd risk in these patients . 
recognition of hypertension and abnormal blood pressure burden with ambulatory blood pressure recordings in type i diabetes mellitus . ambulatory blood pressure ( ambp ) measurements were obtained at 20-min intervals for 24 h in 25 subjects with insulin-dependent ( type i ) diabetes mellitus and 21 control subjects . the diabetic patients had normal kidney function ( glomerular filtration rate 112.1 + / - 7.2 ml.min-1 .1.73 m-2 , renal plasma flow 459.0 + / - 23.4 ml.min-1 .1.73 m-2 ) and were normotensive according to standard sphygmomanometer examinations . mean + / - se ambp ( systolic/diastolic in mmhg ) measurements in diabetic patients ( 24 h , 131.7 / 77.2 + / - 2.9 / 1.8 ; 0600-2200 , 132.3 / 78.4 + / - 2.9 / 3.4 ; 2200-0600 , 125.1 / 75.7 + / - 3.9 / 3.4 ) significantly exceeded control values during all times ( 24 h , 121.8 / 70.3 + / - 2.9 / 1.9 ; 0600-2200 , 120.7 / 71.8 + / - 2.6 / 2.0 ; 2200-0600 , 108.2 / 61.5 + / - 6.6 / 2.7 ) . mean 24-h ambp exceeded 135/85 mmhg in 49 % of diabetic patients . the same threshold of 135/85 mmhg was used to determine the prevalence of abnormal measurements per time period ( pressure burden ) . pressure burden was increased twofold in diabetic patients compared with control subjects . mean ambp was significantly reduced at night in control subjects but not in diabetic patients . changes in blood pressure were not related to kidney function in diabetic patients . ambp recordings uncovered an increased prevalence of abnormal mean blood pressure , increased pressure burden , and a lack of diurnal variation of blood pressure in subjects with type i diabetes mellitus . these findings have important implications for early intervention strategies in diabetes mellitus because ambp recordings correlate well with end-organ damage . 
nephropathy in model combining genetic hypertension with experimental diabetes . enalapril versus hydralazine and metoprolol therapy . we compared the effects of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril and a conventional antihypertensive regimen ( hydralazine and metoprolol ) on kidney function , albuminuria , and glomerular ultrastructure in hypertensive diabetic and nondiabetic rats . diabetes was induced with streptozocin at 8 wk of age in spontaneously hypertensive ( shr ) rats . antihypertensive drugs were administered in drinking water from the time of induction of diabetes in all groups . blood pressure reduction was equal in the diabetic and nondiabetic shr rats receiving either enalapril or hydralazine plus metoprolol . in diabetic shr rats , there was a rise in serum creatinine after 32 wk , which did not occur in diabetic rats treated with either antihypertensive regimen or in nondiabetic rats . both drug regimens reduced albuminuria in diabetic and nondiabetic shr rats to a similar degree . enalapril and the combination of hydralazine and metoprolol were associated with decreased glomerular basement membrane thickness and glomerular volume in diabetic and nondiabetic shr rats without significant effect on fractional mesangial volume . thus , antihypertensive therapy retards the development of albuminuria , glomerular basement membrane thickening , and glomerular hypertrophy in the rat in the presence or absence of diabetes . no specific benefit of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition was observed in these hypertensive models of nephropathy . human studies comparing the effects of different classes of antihypertensive drugs on kidney function , proteinuria , and glomerular morphology are warranted . 
should family doctors screen asymptomatic children for high blood pressure ? whereas the united states task forces on blood pressure control in children have recommended annual blood pressure screening in all children , a working party of the british hypertension society has formed the opposite opinion . relevant literature is reviewed here , and the conclusion reached that on epidemiological and ethical grounds , screening children for hypertension can not at present be justified . 
brief angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor treatment in young spontaneously hypertensive rats reduces blood pressure long-term our study examines the long-term cardiovascular effects after a brief period of angiotensin converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitor treatment in young spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shr ) . shr were treated with perindopril ( 3 mg/kg/day ) by gavage from 2 to 6 , from 6 to 10 , or from 2 to 10 weeks of age . systolic blood pressure was measured in the tail weekly until 25 weeks of age . corresponding control groups received distilled water for the same periods . in each treatment group blood pressure was reduced significantly during treatment , rose when treatment stopped , but plateaued significantly below control shr thereafter . this difference in blood pressure at 25 weeks of age was due to reduced total peripheral resistance as determined by microsphere methods , but plasma renin activity and angiotensin ii concentrations were not different . cardiac hypertrophy was also reduced in treated shr . in a separate experiment , perindopril treatment from 6 to 10 weeks of age resulted in a significant reduction in the media/lumen ratios of mesenteric resistance vessels at 32 weeks of age . concomitant administration of angiotensin ii with perindopril from 6 to 10 weeks of age not only prevented the long-term effects on blood pressure seen with perindopril treatment alone but was associated with cardiovascular hypertrophy in excess of untreated control shr . finally , perindopril given for a shorter period ( 6 to 7 weeks ) or later in life ( 20 to 24 weeks ) had no significant long-term effects on blood pressure . these results demonstrate that a 4-week period of ace inhibitor treatment in young shr is sufficient to prevent the full expression of genetic hypertension and cardiovascular hypertrophy and that angiotensin ii might be important in the development of hypertension in this model , its role in later life being less important . 
" white coat " versus " sustained " borderline hypertension in tecumseh , michigan during a survey of young subjects not receiving treatment for hypertension in tecumseh , michigan , clinic and self-monitored blood pressures taken at home ( 14 readings in 7 days ) were obtained in 737 subjects ( 387 men , 350 women , average age 31.5 years ) . hypertension in the clinic was diagnosed if the clinic blood pressure exceeded 140 mm hg systolic or 90 mm hg diastolic . in the absence of firm criteria for what constitutes hypertension at home , subjects whose average home blood pressure was in the upper decile of the whole population were considered to have hypertension at home . by these criteria , 7.1 % of the whole population had " white coat " hypertension ( i.e. , high clinic but not elevated home readings ) . the prevalence of " sustained " hypertension ( i.e. , high readings in the clinic and at home ) was 5.1 % . subjects with white coat and sustained borderline hypertension in tecumseh were very similar . both groups showed , at previous examinations ( at ages 5 , 8 , 21 , and 23 years ) , significantly higher blood pressure readings than the normotensive subjects . as young adults ( average age 33.3 years ) , the parents of both hypertensive groups had significantly higher blood pressure readings than the parents of normotensive subjects . both hypertensive groups had faster heart rates , higher systemic vascular resistance , and higher minimal forearm vascular resistance . both hypertensive groups were more overweight , had higher plasma triglycerides , insulin , and insulin/glucose ratios than normotensive subjects . the white coat hypertensive group also had lower values of high density lipoprotein than the normotensive group . white coat hypertension is a frequent condition . 
psychosomatic factors in borderline hypertensive subjects and offspring of hypertensive parents . psychosomatic factors , sympathoneural and sympathoadrenal as well as cardiovascular mechanisms , were studied in 24 patients 18-24 years of age with borderline hypertension , 50 age-matched normotensive offspring of hypertensive parents , and 49 controls with no family history of hypertension . they were compared by projective and questionnaire-based psychological tests and their circulatory and neurohormonal reactivity to mental ( stroop color-word conflict test and arithmetic test ) and physical stressors ( orthostasis and bicycle ergometry test ) were measured . borderline hypertensive subjects externalized aggression less ( p less than 0.05 ) but internalized it more ( p less than 0.05 ) and were more submissive ( p less than 0.05 ) when compared with controls . offspring of hypertensive parents showed a similar but weaker pattern . both risk groups reported more positive interactions with their parents ( genetic risk subjects versus controls , p less than 0.05 ; borderline hypertensive patients versus controls , p = 0.08 ) and had higher state-anxiety levels ( p less than 0.05 ) . there were more subjective symptoms of beta-adrenergic receptor-mediated functions ( e.g. , tachycardia , tremor ) in borderline hypertensive subjects and offspring of hypertensive parents , elevated heart rates ( analysis of repeated measures , p less than 0.001 ) , and enhanced plasma norepinephrine concentrations ( p less than 0.05 ) when compared with controls . these findings in subjects at risk for the development of hypertension suggest that psychosomatic factors and sympathetic overactivity are involved in the early phase of hypertension . 
thromboxane a2 and development of genetic hypertension in the lyon rat strain . to determine whether the increased renal biosynthesis of thromboxane a2 observed in young genetically hypertensive rats of the lyon strain could be involved in the development of their hypertension , lyon hypertensive female rats received either thromboxane synthetase inhibitors ( dazmegrel or oky 046 ) or a thromboxane a2 receptor antagonist ( ah 23848 ) during their prehypertensive stage . treatment from 5 to 9 weeks of age with dazmegrel failed to reduce systolic blood pressure . when given from 3 to 9 weeks of age , dazmegrel and oky 046 induced a similar progressive and specific reduction ( 60 % ) in the urinary excretion of thromboxane b2 that was associated with a transient decrease in blood pressure level with dazmegrel and a longer lasting blood pressure-lowering effect with oky 046 . ah 23848 , given according to the same schedule , normalized the blood pressure level . this effect persisted 1 week after the cessation of the treatment . interestingly , active doses of thromboxane synthetase inhibitors or of thromboxane a2 receptor blocker required a 3-week delay to exhibit their antihypertensive properties . it is concluded that 1 ) the elevated production of thromboxane a2 observed in young lyon hypertensive rats is likely to participate actively in their blood pressure regulation and 2 ) this effect may be independent of its direct vasoconstrictor properties . 
renal secretion and hepatic clearance of human multiple renin forms . human active renin can be separated into at least five forms by isoelectric focusing . the present study assessed the preferential renal secretion and hepatic degradation of renin forms in humans . the renin form profile of secreted renal renin was determined before transplant in an ex vivo kidney donor perfusion system and compared with the peripheral plasma multiple renin form profile of normal subjects . the effect of hepatic degradation on renin forms was assessed in hepatic vein plasma in comparison with infrarenal vena cava plasma in hypertensive patients during renal vein renin studies . the results revealed a significantly greater proportion of the more basic forms in the perfusate of donor kidneys compared with normal plasma . in hypertensive patients the proportion of the more basic renin forms in the hepatic vein was significantly decreased in comparison with the infrarenal vena cava . thus , the human kidney may preferentially secrete the more basic renin forms . in contrast , the liver preferentially degrades the more basic forms , giving these forms a shorter plasma half-life . the preferential secretion and clearance of the more basic forms of renin may contribute to short-term control of human renin-angiotensin system activity . 
role of endothelium in the response to endothelin in hypertension . the relation between endothelin and acetylcholine ( ach ) was examined and compared in aortas from wistar-kyoto ( wky ) rats and from stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shrsp ) . the relaxation produced by ach in an endothelin-induced contraction was less in aortas from wky rats than in those from shrsp . in aortas from wky rats but not in those from shrsp , the contraction produced by endothelin was augmented when the intact aortic rings were treated with methylene blue ( 10 ( -5 ) m ) . this augmentation was also found in preparations of the wky rat aortic rings in which the endothelium had been removed . the augmentation was not present in shrsp aortic rings that had been similarly denuded . treatment with indomethacin ( 5 x 10 ( -6 ) m ) had no effect on endothelin-induced contraction in either wky rat or shrsp aortic rings . our findings indicate that endothelin and ach have in common the ability to release endothelium-derived relaxing factor ( edrf ) in wky rat aortic rings . the reduced endothelium-dependent relaxation in response to ach in the wky rat probably reflects the fact that endothelin had already released the edrf in rings from this strain of rats . the release of edrf by endothelin is less in shrsp than it is in wky rats . because of this failure of endothelin to release edrf in shrsp , endothelin may contribute to the increase in total peripheral resistance in this form of hypertension . 
fish oil amplifies the effect of propranolol in mild essential hypertension . forty-seven male patients with mild essential hypertension were randomly allocated to three subgroups . after a run-in period of 4 weeks , the first subgroup ( n = 16 ) received propranolol ( 80 mg/day ) for 36 weeks followed by a placebo period of 4 weeks . the second subgroup ( n = 15 ) , after a run-in period of 4 weeks , was given a supplement of encapsulated fish oil ( 9 g/day ) for 36 weeks with a subsequent period of 4 weeks in which fish oil placebo was given . the third subgroup ( n = 16 ) , after a run-in period of 4 weeks , was given propranolol ( 80 mg/day ) for 12 weeks , propranolol ( 80 mg/day ) plus fish oil capsules ( 9 g/day equivalent to 1.8 g/day of eicosapentaenoic acid and 1.1 g/day of docosahexaenoic acid ) for 12 weeks , propranolol plus fish oil placebo ( same doses for 12 weeks ) with a subsequent period of 4 weeks when propranolol placebo was administered . the results indicate a blood pressure-lowering effect of fish oil , which was comparable with that of propranolol . the simultaneous intake of fish oil plus propranolol was more effective than propranolol or fish oil alone . propranolol treatment resulted in a decrease of plasma norepinephrine , plasma renin activity , and thromboxane b2 formation . after fish oil supplementation , plasma norepinephrine and thromboxane b2 formation were likewise reduced , whereas plasma renin activity appeared increased . the decrease of serum triglycerides , total and low density lipoprotein cholesterol as well as the rise of high density lipoprotein cholesterol are concomitant beneficial effects , which justify the consideration of fish oil alone or in combination with antihypertensive drugs for the treatment of mild hypertension . 
silent cerebrovascular disease in the elderly . correlation with ambulatory pressure . does the average daily blood pressure correlate with hypertensive cerebrovascular disease better than the casual pressure , as has been reported in other target organ involvement ? we investigated the associations of two abnormal findings on brain magnetic resonance imaging suggestive of a vascular etiology , low intense foci ( lacunae ) , and periventricular hyperintense lesions on t1 - and t2-weighted images , with both office and average daily blood pressure values in a population of 73 healthy normotensive and hypertensive elderly individuals ( 70 + / - 6 years old ) . lacunae were detected in 34 subjects ( 47 % ) ; the number per subject ranged from 0 to 19 and was significantly correlated with advancing age . furthermore , these changes were supposedly related to the average of noninvasive ambulatory ( 24-hour and during awake and asleep periods ) pressure recordings but not to office pressures . the grade of periventricular hyperintensity was also significantly associated with advancing age and the average of ambulatory systolic pressure recordings , particularly during sleep , but not with office blood pressure . in comparisons of normotensive , " office hypertensive , " and hypertensive subgroups , abnormalities on magnetic resonance imaging were appropriate to the level of the 24-hour blood pressure measurements but not to that of clinic pressure . in hypertensive patients , the presence of electrocardiographic evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy was also associated with greater abnormalities on magnetic resonance imaging . we conclude that ambulatory blood pressure monitoring is superior to casual pressure measurements in predicting latent cerebrovascular disease , which is unexpectedly common in apparently healthy elderly subjects . 
effect of age on the efficacy of blood pressure treatment strategies . to study whether the proportion of excess cardiovascular events attributable to various levels of systolic blood pressure varies with age , we calculated the population-attributable risk of all-cause mortality , fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events ( stroke , coronary heart disease , angina , congestive heart failure , and peripheral vascular disease ) , and stroke incidence due to systolic blood pressure in men and women 45 years of age or older in the united states during 1980 . our estimates are based on us census counts , blood pressure prevalence distributions from the second national health and nutrition examination survey , and the annual risk of cardiovascular complications during 18 years of follow-up in the framingham cohort . we then determined the impact of age on the relative efficacy of mass treatment and case-finding strategies in preventing systolic blood pressure-related events . at 45-54 years of age , only 30-40 % of systolic blood pressure-related excess events occur in hypertensive individuals ( systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 160 mm hg ) . with increasing age , however , the percentage of systolic blood pressure-related events that occur in hypertensive individuals rose substantially ; in the older age group ( greater than or equal to 75 years ) , 65-70 % of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular disease events occur in hypertensive persons . the pattern is similar for men and women . the potential impact of a mass treatment strategy designed to shift the distribution of blood pressure downward by a small amount is greater in younger than in older groups , whereas an opposite trend is seen for a high-risk , hypertensive case-finding and treatment approach . 
insulin resistance and blood pressure in young black men . insulin resistance , independent of obesity or non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , has been demonstrated to be associated with high blood pressure . to determine if insulin resistance could be an antecedent to hypertension in a high-risk population , we studied normotensive ( 112 + / - 12/70 + / - 10 mm hg ) and borderline hypertensive ( 135 + / - 8/85 + / - 5 mm hg ) lean young black men ( 22-26 years old ) with the euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp technique . all subjects had clinically normal oral glucose tolerance . body mass index and percent adipose mass were the same in both groups . fasting plasma insulin concentration was significantly higher in the borderline hypertensive group ( p less than 0.01 ) . insulin-directed exogenous glucose metabolism at the same degree of steady-state hyperinsulinemia was significantly lower in the borderline hypertensive group ( 5.98 + / - 2.22 versus 8.22 + / - 1.96 mg/kg/min ; p less than 0.01 ) . for the total population , a significant inverse correlation existed between the glucose infusion rate and systolic blood pressure ( p less than 0.01 ) . these data indicate that there is a relation between insulin-mediated glucose uptake and blood pressure . furthermore , in this high-risk population insulin resistance may precede the onset of established essential hypertension . 
similar frequencies of renin gene restriction fragment length polymorphisms in hypertensive and normotensive subjects . a prospective study was conducted to compare the frequency of renin gene polymorphisms in normotensive and hypertensive subjects . hypertensive ( n = 102 , blood pressure 168 + / - 17/103 + / - 9 mm hg ) and normotensive ( n = 120 , blood pressure 122 + / - 10/75 + / - 9 mm hg ) subjects were white , had similar age and sex distributions ( hypertensive group , 45 + / - 10 years old and 52 % female ; normotensive group , 44 + / - 9 years old and 55 % female ) and similar body mass index ( hypertensive group , 23.2 + / - 2.6 ; normotensive group , 22.5 + / - 2.4 kg/m2 , p = 0.048 ) . the familial susceptibility to hypertension was defined as at least one parent and one sibling who were hypertensive before age 65 ; subjects in the normotensive group had no familial history of hypertension . renin gene polymorphisms located throughout the renin gene were identified by using three restriction enzymes ( taq i , hinfi , hindiii ) . for each polymorphic restriction site , allele frequencies were similar in the hypertensive and the normotensive groups . in the absence of parental genotypes , the haplotype frequencies combining the three restriction fragment length polymorphisms were estimated by using maximum likelihood techniques and were similar in both groups ( hypertensive group , 0.429 , 0.277 , and 0.177 ; normotensive group , 0.453 , 0.245 , and 0.195 for the three most common haplotypes ) . a rare haplotype detected by taq i/hind iii was apparently more frequent in the hypertensive than in the normotensive group ( hypertensive group , th 0.086 , th 0.022 ; normotensive group , th 0.038 , th 0.050 ) , but the difference was not statistically significant . in conclusion , no association between renin gene polymorphisms and essential hypertension was demonstrated in the present study . 
the surprising kidney-fluid mechanism for pressure control -- its infinite gain ! in this short paper , i have tried to explain the elation that we felt when we first realized that the kidney-fluid mechanism for controlling the arterial pressure has an infinite feedback gain property . because of this , all the other pressure control mechanisms , none of which has ever been shown to have a similar infinite gain property , must themselves alter the kidney-fluid mechanism if they are to succeed in causing long-term changes in the arterial pressure . we have not been able to refute this principle despite many experiments over the last 2 decades . for this reason , our first understanding of the infinite gain property of the kidney-fluid mechanism was like a light at the end of the tunnel . i hope that i can explain to the reader the excitement of those few seconds when we first recognized the principle in 1966 . 
segmental vascular resistance in postobstructive pulmonary vasculopathy . chronic unilateral pulmonary arterial ligation has been touted as a model of arteriopathy resulting in a tremendous increase in anastomotic bronchial flow ( qbr ) via collaterals . to investigate its effects on the pulmonary vasculature , we ligated the left main pulmonary artery of seven dogs and 120 days later pump perfused their left lower lobes ( lll ) via a cannula in the pulmonary artery at pulmonary arterial flow ( qpa ) of 250 ml/min . we measured qbr ( 330 ml/min ) and compared lll with control contralateral right lower lobes ( rll ) and three lll from normal dogs . pressure-flow ( p-q ) curves were obtained by varying qpa . with arterial and venous occlusion we measured total , arterial , venous , and middle segment resistances under baseline conditions , after serotonin and histamine , either with or without qpa and with antegrade and retrograde qbr . light microscopy was done postmortem . the slope of the p-q curve was 33.4 mmhg.l-1 . min in the ligated lobes compared with 15.9 in the controls , attributable by the occlusion technique mainly to a rise in arterial resistance ( 22.4 mmhg.l-1 . min compared with 7.4 in the controls ) with a small rise in venous resistance . this was explained by significant arterial medial muscle thickening and some loss of lll volume . the arterial segment was markedly hypersensitive to serotonin , and the venous segment was mildly hypersensitive to histamine compared with controls . the occlusion data also enabled us to model the point of entry of the bronchial circulation into the pulmonary circuit at the precapillary level and to calculate bronchial vascular resistance . we conclude that postobstructive vasculopathy substantially raises pulmonary vascular resistance , mainly upstream from the site of entry of the bronchial circulation . the role of the latter may be to keep it from rising excessively in the segments it perfuses , i.e. , the middle and venous ones . 
vascular flow capacity of hindlimb skeletal muscles in spontaneously hypertensive rats . total and regional skeletal muscle flows ( radiolabeled microspheres ) were determined in isolated maximally vasodilated hindquarters of spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shr ) and age-matched ( 11-12 mo ) normotensive wistar-kyoto rats ( wky ) to assess the vascular flow capacity of the skeletal muscle vascular beds . vascular flow capacity was estimated by measuring total hindquarters and regional muscle blood flows ( under conditions of maximal vasodilation with papaverine or papaverine plus isoproterenol ) over a wide range of perfusion pressures in wky and shr . capillary exchange capacity was estimated by determining the capillary filtration coefficient . isogravimetric capillary pressures and segmental vascular resistances were determined in each hindquarter . isogravimetric flows and capillary pressures were not different between wky and shr . however , total and precapillary vascular resistances were significantly elevated in shr , and postcapillary resistances were not different compared with wky . maximal capillary filtration coefficient values for the shr group averaged 20 % lower than wky values , suggesting that hypertension was associated with a reduction in the microvascular surface area available for fluid exchange and , therefore , the capillary exchange capacity . over the perfusion pressures studied , total hindquarters flows averaged 60 % lower in shr than in wky . flows to individual skeletal muscles averaged 76 % lower in shr than in wky regardless of the muscle fiber type . thus , modifications exist in the hindlimb skeletal muscle vasculature of shr that reduces the capillary exchange capacity and limit the capacity of deliver flow at a given perfusion pressure gradient . 
human dose-response relationship for decompression and endogenous bubble formation . the dose-response relationship for decompression magnitude and venous gas emboli ( vge ) formation in humans was examined . pressure exposures of 138 , 150 , and 164 kpa ( 12 , 16 , and 20.5 ft of seawater gauge pressure ) were conducted in an underwater habitat for 48 h. the 111 human male volunteer subjects then ascended directly to the surface in less than 5 min and were monitored for vge with a continuous-wave doppler ultrasound device over the precordium or the subclavian veins at regular intervals for a 24-h period . no signs or symptoms consistent with decompression sickness occurred . however , a large incidence of vge detection was noted . these data were combined with those from our previously reported experiments at higher pressures , and the data were fit to a hill dose-response equation with nonlinear least-squares or maximum likelihood routines . highly significant fits of precordial vge incidences were obtained with the hill equation ( saturation depth pressure at which there is a 50 % probability of detectable vge [ d ( vge ) 50 ] = 150 + / - 1.2 kpa ) . subclavian monitoring increased the sensitivity of vge detection and resulted in a leftward shift [ d ( vge ) 50 = 135 + / - 2 kpa ] of the best-fit curve . we conclude that the reduction in pressure necessary to produce bubbles in humans is much less than was previously thought ; 50 % of humans can be expected to generate endogenous bubbles after decompression from a steady-state pressure exposure of only 135 kpa ( 11 ft of seawater ) . this may have significant implications for decompression schedule formulation and for altitude exposures that are currently considered benign . these results also imply that endogenous bubbles arise from preexisting gas collections . 
experimental cardiac tamponade : correlation of pressure , flow velocity , and echocardiographic changes . seven episodes of experimental cardiac tamponade were induced in five anesthetized closed-chest dogs . simultaneous pericardial and intracavitary pressures were synchronized with superior vena caval and transvalvular pulsed-doppler flow tracings . the earliest indication of tamponade was the development of a negative transmural right atrial pressure that occurred during early ventricular diastole and was associated with echocardiographic evidence of right atrial collapse . this was also associated with reversal of diastolic flow in the superior vena cava and with diminished early diastolic flow velocity across the tricuspid as well as the mitral valve . during more advanced cardiac tamponade , the transmural right atrial pressure became negative during both early and late ventricular diastole as well as during isovolumic ventricular systole . this was associated with a disappearance of early diastolic ventricular filling and right ventricular diastolic collapse as observed on two-dimensional echocardiography . in hypotensive cardiac tamponade ( cardiac output diminished by 70 % ) , the decreased transmural right atrial pressure that developed during ventricular systole was accompanied by diminished antegrade flow in the superior vena cava . in advanced and hypotensive tamponade , ventricular filling occurred mainly during atrial contraction . 
production of thrombi on intact endothelium by use of antiheparin agents in vivo . it had been suggested that antithrombin activity on the surface of intact endothelial cells may play a role in inhibiting platelet adhesion and thrombus formation . the antithrombin activity may be due to thrombomodulin or to activation of antithrombin iii by glycosaminoglycans or thrombomodulin , or possibly a combination of these . this inhibitory activity has been shown to be affected by such antiheparin agents as protamine , hexadimethrine bromide ( polybrene ; aldrich chemical co. , milwaukee , wis. ) and platelet factor 4 , as well as by such enzymes as heparinase and heparitinase . we have used a hamster cheek pouch preparation to observe thrombus formation in vivo in a normal vascular flow , to determine whether the production of thrombi by thrombin can be enhanced by antiheparin agents . after intra-arterial injection or topical application of protamine or hexadimethrine bromide , platelet adhesion and thrombus formation on intact arteriolar endothelium was produced by a dose of thrombin , which when injected alone had no effect . no thrombi were found in venules or capillaries . injection of heparin before or after the antiheparin agents necessitated a larger dose to enhance the action of thrombin . on electron microscopy the thrombi were found to consist primarily of platelets adherent to an intact endothelium . the possible clinical implications of these observations are discussed . 
temporal arteritis presenting as a submandibular swelling . temporal arteritis ( giant cell arteritis ) is a disease of protean manifestation . a case which presented as a submandibular swelling is reported . 
rigid spine syndrome with respiratory failure . the pathogenesis and therapy of respiratory failure in the rigid spine syndrome are discussed in two cases who improved with respiratory assistance . in both cases , the partial pressures of oxygen and carbon dioxide were reversed in arterial blood gas analysis and % vc was less than 30 % . remission from respiratory failure has been obtained by the use of a ventilator during the night . the cause of the respiratory failure in both cases was severe restrictive respiratory dysfunction due to extreme flattening of the chest and fixation of the thorax during respiration as a result of contracture of costovertebral joints . all the previously reported cases of the rigid spine syndrome with respiratory failure died . appropriate use of the ventilator can improve the prognosis . 
clues to the electrocardiographic diagnosis of subtle wolff-parkinson-white syndrome in children . the electrocardiographic diagnosis of wolff-parkinson-white syndrome ( wpw ) may be missed because delta waves can be subtle in children , so we examined 66 electrocardiograms from patients with proven wpw , 24 from those with questionable wpw ( " subtle wpw " ) , and 369 consecutive electrocardiograms from control patients to identify additional clues that wpw might be present . three features were notable in wpw : no q wave in left chest leads ( 88 % ) , pr interval less than 100 milliseconds ( 80 % ) , and left axis deviation ( 33 % ) . in subtle wpw these findings were similar : 79 % , 67 % , and 46 % , respectively . by comparison , 5 % of control subjects had no q wave , 16 % had a pr interval of less than 100 milliseconds , and 4 % had left axis deviation ( all p less than 0.001 ) . the coexistence of two of these features was common ( 74 % ) in wpw and subtle wpw ( 63 % ) but rare ( 2 % ) in control subjects ( p less than 0.001 ) . a pr interval of less than 100 milliseconds was less specific before 1 year of age , but 89 % of patients with wpw had a qrs duration of greater than 80 milliseconds versus 2 % of control subjects ( p less than 0.001 ) . obvious wpw disappeared later in 11 patients ; however , left axis deviation or lack of a q wave persisted in eight ( p less than 0.01 ) . we conclude that the diagnosis of wpw in children , even when subtle , is suggested by the presence of these four changes . preexcitation may persist in some patients in whom overt delta waves are no longer present . 
hypoplastic transverse arch and coarctation in neonates . surgical reconstruction of the aortic arch : a study of sixty-six patients . from jan . 1 , 1983 , to jan . 1 , 1988 , 66 consecutive neonates with coarctation and severe hypoplasia of the transverse arch underwent coarctation repair by resection of the coarctation and reconstruction of the aortic arch . mean age at operation was 14 + / - 8 days , ranging from 2 to 30 days ; 63 % of the newborn infants were less than 2 weeks of age . the coarctation was isolated in 23 % , associated with a ventricular septal defect in 39 % , and associated with complex anomalies in 38 % , including 16 cases of transposition of the great arteries or doublet-outlet right ventricle plus ventricular septal defect , two cases of simple transposition , two of corrected transposition plus ventricular septal defect , and five cases of " hypoplastic " left ventricle . the surgical technique comprises a wide resection of the coarctation extended to the contiguous ductal tissue followed by the reconstruction of the aortic arch in bringing the descending aorta into the concavity of the aortic arch . this technique is able to relieve the obstruction of the aortic arch provided that ( 1 ) the descending aorta is widely dissected to allow mobilization and ( 2 ) the incision of the transverse arch is extended proximal to the ostium of the left carotid artery . the operation was performed through a left thoracotomy in 62 patients and through a sternotomy in four additional neonates with transposition and ventricular septal defect who underwent a one-stage repair with aortic reconstruction , closure of the defect , and arterial switch . the overall early mortality rate ( less than 30 days ) was 14 % ( 9/66 ; 95 % confidence limits = 5 % to 22 % ) , including four deaths occurring within the first month , at a concomitant or subsequent repair of the associated anomaly . there were six late deaths , all related to the associated lesions . the overall mortality rate was 23 % ( 15/66 ; 95 % confidence limits = 13 % to 33 % ) . the mean follow-up was 21 + / - 10 months , ranging from 6 to 66 months . actuarial survival rates at 5 years are 72 % + / - 10 % for the overall group ; 87 % + / - 17 % for simple coarctation ; 88 % + / - 12 % for coarctation and ventricular septal defect ; and 52 % + / - 18 % for complex coarctation . the rate of recurrent coarctation was 12.5 % ( 95 % confidence limits = 2 % to 23 % ) , leading to five reoperations with no deaths . freedom from reoperation was 89.5 % + / - 9 % at 5 years . this technique of coarctation repair offers several advantages : low operative mortality , complete relief of the left ventricular obstruction , wide resection of the ductus tissue , absence of prosthetic material , and preservation of the left subclavian artery . 
a comparison of coarctation resection and subclavian flap angioplasty using ultrasonographically monitored postocclusive reactive hyperemia the reported relatively high incidence of early restenosis at the coarctation repair site with subclavian flap angioplasty , especially in infants less than 3 months of age , prompted a physiologically oriented analysis of relief of obstruction from coarctation after subclavian flap angioplasty versus resection and end-to-end anastomosis in infancy . twenty-one patients who had undergone repair of coarctation in infancy by either subclavian flap angioplasty ( nine patients ) ( median age 8 years ) or resection and end-to-end anastomosis ( 12 patients ) ( median age 8 years ) were evaluated by doppler spectrum analysis of the blood flow velocities in the femoral artery at rest and during reactive hyperemia . the median resting right upper to lower limb systolic pressure difference ( with interquartile range ) was similar in the angioplasty , resection and anastomosis , and control groups : -5 mm hg ( 18 mm hg ) , 0 mm hg ( 12 mm hg ) , and -2.5 mm hg ( 10 mm hg ) , respectively . also , similar resting values for the maximum frequency of the advancing curve and the pulsatility and resistance indices were measured in the three groups . during reactive hyperemia of the leg , however , a significant hemodynamic obstruction across the repair site became clinically manifest in the angioplasty group only , as documented by a lower pulsatility index in comparison with the control group ( p = 0.01 , mann-whitney u test ) . comparison of the hemodynamic results between the angioplasty and resection and anastomosis groups in subdivisions of infants operated on at an age of less or greater than 3 months , both at rest and during reactive hyperemia , showed , already at rest , a significantly lower value for the pulsatility index in the former angioplasty subdivision ( p = 0.05 , student 's t test ) , indicating a significant resistance at the coarctation repair site in the angioplasty patients operated on before the third month of life . a disadvantage of angioplasty ( compared with resection and anastomosis ) was noted when angioplasty was performed before the third month of life , and an unequivocal lack of advantage was noted when performed beyond that period regarding relief of obstruction from coarctation . in addition , a definite potential for adverse long-term effects on the hemodynamics of the left upper limb after subclavian flap angioplasty in infancy has been documented . for these reasons we prefer to perform resection and end-to-end anastomosis for repair of coarctation in infancy . 
studies of myocardial protection in the immature heart . i. enhanced tolerance of immature versus adult myocardium to global ischemia with reference to metabolic differences . this study compares the metabolism and functional responses of adult and immature hearts to a standard ischemic insult . ten adult dogs ( 25 to 27 kg ) and 10 puppies ( 6 to 10 weeks old ) underwent 45 minutes of aortic clamping on bypass . preoperative and postoperative ventricular performance ( starling curves ) , biochemical factors , and water content were measured . global ischemia in adults produced a 30 % mortality rate ( 3/10 ) and low output syndrome in survivors ( 33 % recovery of stroke work index ) . conversely , all puppies survived and stroke work index returned to 85 % of control , with less edema developing ( 0.4 % versus 2 % water gain , p less than 0.05 ) . puppies expended comparable glycogen stores but used more glutamate ( 15.4 versus 8.6 mumol/gm dry weight ) , produced more alanine ( 18.9 versus 6.4 mumol , p less than 0.05 ) , succinate ( 19 versus 8.2 mumol , p less than 0.05 ) , and malate ( 2.6 versus 0.15 mumol , p less than 0.05 ) during ischemia , and recovered better postischemic aerobic metabolism ( 410 versus 255 nmol tissue pyruvate , p less than 0.05 ) . we conclude that tolerance of immature hearts to ischemia is related to amino acid utilization by transamination and increased substrate level phosphorylation , as occurring in diving mammals , suggesting retention of intrautero adaptive mechanisms . 
studies of myocardial protection in the immature heart . ii . evidence for importance of amino acid metabolism in tolerance to ischemia . this study tests the importance of amino acid transamination in determining the tolerance of immature hearts to ischemic damage . amino acid transamination was inhibited metabolically by pretreatment with aminooxyacetic acid . the aminooxyacetic acid dose and duration were determined by incubating in vitro tissue homogenate and showing that an 8 mmol/l aoa dose for 5 minutes blocked 90 % of alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase activity . control studies in nonischemic hearts showed that coronary perfusion with aminooxyacetic acid for 5 minutes did not impair myocardial performance . in contrast , pretreatment of immature puppies with aminooxyacetic acid severely impaired recovery after 45 minutes of normothermic global ischemia ( 30 % versus 85 % recovery in untreated hearts , p less than 0.05 ) . biochemical analyses of hearts undergoing ischemia showed aminooxyacetic acid to limit lactate production , impair glutamate utilization , prevent alanine production , and limit succinate accumulation ( p less than 0.05 ) . these data suggest that amino acid transamination is an important adaptive process in the immature heart that improves its resistance to ischemic damage . 
warm induction blood cardioplegia in the infant . a technique to avoid rapid cooling myocardial contracture . the use of profound hypothermia and total circulatory arrest for repair of heart defects in neonates usually involves a period of systemic and myocardial bypass cooling . rapid cooling of muscle ( skeletal , smooth , and myocardial ) can result in contracture through elevation of cytosolic calcium levels . the increased myocardial tone caused by cooling might render the heart more vulnerable to a subsequent period of cardioplegic ischemic arrest . infants may be more susceptible to contracture because their small body mass allows more rapid myocardial temperature change when prearrest bypass cooling is used . the influence of avoiding rapid myocardial cooling before induced cardioplegic arrest was analyzed in a group of infants weighing less than 6 kg at the time of open cardiac operation . myocardial ischemic arrest by warm ( 37 degrees c ) induction blood cardioplegia was used in 57 infants and compared with results in 440 infants treated with standard blood cardioplegia . multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed that patient diagnosis , weight , and age at operation were significant risk factors for operative mortality . the use of warm induction blood cardioplegia had a strongly positive independent effect on survival ( p = 0.0003 ) for any patient weight , age , or diagnostic group . we recommend the avoidance of rapid myocardial cooling on bypass in all patients before induction of cardioplegic ischemic arrest . 
long-term cardiopulmonary bypass by peripheral cannulation in a model of total heart failure . the decompression of the left heart through a percutaneous helical spring positioned within the lumen of the tricuspid and pulmonary artery valves . we performed long-term closed-chest cardiopulmonary bypass in an animal model of total heart failure ( induced ventricular fibrillation ) . the extracorporeal system included a venous reservoir , a roller pump , a membrane lung , and a blood pulsator system . we cannulated the right external jugular vein for venous drainage and the right subclavian artery for arterial return . to decompress the left heart we passed by percutaneous cannulation a special helical spring mounted on a swan-ganz catheter ( baxter edwards divisions , irvine , calif. ) and positioned it to rest within the pulmonary artery and tricuspid valves , which rendered them partly incompetent . after induced ventricular fibrillation , blood flow was raised to keep the central venous pressure at baseline values . the lungs were ventilated with 5 % carbon dioxide in room air . during bypass , mean pulmonary artery pressure was 10.0 + / - 1.7 mm hg , mean wedge pressure 11.9 + / - 1.8 mm hg , and mean blood pressure 95.2 + / - 5.6 mm hg . after 2 days ( four animals ) and 3 days ( two animals ) the hearts were defibrillated . there was immediate ejection from both sides of the heart . all sheep were weaned from bypass within 29 + / - 11 minutes and their lungs were ventilated with room air within 42 + / - 34 minutes . at autopsy hearts and lungs grossly appeared normal . we conclude that the percutaneous helical spring resting within right heart valves provided excellent decompression throughout the study , with full recovery of heart and lung function on defibrillation . 
efficacy and safety of low - and high-dose sotalol versus propranolol in the prevention of supraventricular tachyarrhythmias early after coronary artery bypass operations . supraventricular tachyarrhythmias are reported in up to 40 % of patients early after coronary artery bypass graft operations . in a randomized study , we compared the efficacy and safety of the class iii antiarrhythmic beta-blocking drug sotalol versus propranolol at low and high doses in the prevention of supraventricular tachyarrhythmias in 429 consecutive patients after coronary artery bypass graft operations . patients with severely depressed left ventricular function and other contraindications for beta-blockers were excluded . from the fourth hour up to the sixth day after coronary artery bypass , 74 patients received low-dose sotalol ( 40 mg every 8 hours ) , 66 patients low-dose propranolol ( 10 mg every 6 hours ) , 133 patients high-dose sotalol ( 80 mg every 8 hours ) , and 156 patients high-dose propranolol ( 20 mg every 6 hours ) . baseline characteristics were comparable in all groups . supraventricular tachyarrhythmia was observed in 10 of 72 ( 13.9 % ) who received low-dose sotalol , 12 of 64 ( 18.8 % ) who received low-dose propranolol , 13 of 119 ( 10.9 % ) who received high-dose sotalol , and 19 of 139 ( 13.7 % ) who received high-dose propranolol ( not significant ) . drug-related adverse effects necessitating discontinuation of the drug occurred in four receiving low doses ( 2.9 % ) and in 31 receiving high doses ( 10.7 % ) ( p less than 0.02 ) . in conclusion , no medication was found to be superior , although supraventricular tachyarrhythmias tended to be less prevalent in patients treated with sotalol than in those treated with propranolol . moreover , significantly fewer adverse effects were noted in both low-dose groups . therefore , low-dose beta-blocking treatment , especially low-dose sotalol , seems preferable . 
echocardiographic evaluation of patients with clinically suspected arterial emboli . 153 patients ( mean age 42 years , range 16-60 ) who had arterial embolic events were examined prospectively by transthoracic and transoesophageal echocardiography . patients older than 60 years and those with evidence of extracranial carotid artery occlusive disease were excluded . 84 patients had a cerebral ischaemic event , 50 patients had embolic events in an abdominal organ or limb , and 19 patients had acute retinal ischaemia . the transthoracic echocardiographic examination was normal in 92 patients ( 60 % ) , whereas only 65 patients ( 42 % ) had normal findings after both transthoracic and transoesophageal examination ( p less than 0.005 ) . intracardiac masses , including valvular vegetations , were found in 39 patients ( 25 % ) , including 27 % of patients with cerebral embolism and 32 % of these with peripheral embolism , but in none of the patients with retinal ischaemia ( p less than 0.001 ) . 47 patients ( 31 % ) had valvular disease , 10 ( 7 % ) had wall motion abnormalities , 23 ( 15 % ) had abnormalities of the interatrial septum , and 9 patients ( 6 % ) had diseases of the thoracic aorta . cardiovascular abnormalities were frequently found by echocardiography in patients with arterial emboli . the transesophageal technique significantly increased the chance of detecting such abnormalities , especially intracardiac masses . 
association of perioperative myocardial ischemia with cardiac morbidity and mortality in men undergoing noncardiac surgery . the study of perioperative ischemia research group background . adverse cardiac events are a major cause of morbidity and mortality after noncardiac surgery . it is necessary to determine the predictors of these outcomes in order to focus efforts on prevention and treatment . patients undergoing noncardiac surgery sometimes have postoperative cardiac events . it would be helpful to know which patients are at highest risk . methods . we prospectively studied 474 men with coronary artery disease ( 243 ) or at high risk for it ( 231 ) who were undergoing elective noncardiac surgery . we gathered historical , clinical , laboratory , and physiologic data during hospitalization and for 6 to 24 months after surgery . myocardial ischemia was assessed by continuous electrocardiographic monitoring , beginning two days before surgery and continuing for two days after . results . eighty-three patients ( 18 percent ) had postoperative cardiac events in the hospital that were classified as ischemic events ( cardiac death , myocardial infarction , or unstable angina ) ( 15 patients ) , congestive heart failure ( 30 ) , or ventricular tachycardia ( 38 ) . postoperative myocardial ischemia occurred in 41 percent of the monitored patients and was associated with a 2.8-fold increase in the odds of all adverse cardiac outcomes ( 95 percent confidence interval , 1.6 to 4.9 ; p less than 0.0002 ) and a 9.2-fold increase in the odds of an ischemic event ( 95 percent confidence interval , 2.0 to 42.0 ; p less than 0.004 ) . multivariate analysis showed no other clinical , historical , or perioperative variable to be independently associated with ischemic events , including cardiac-risk index , a history of previous myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure , or the occurrence of ischemia before or during surgery . conclusions . in high-risk patients undergoing noncardiac surgery , early postoperative myocardial ischemia is an important correlate of adverse cardiac outcomes . 
conjugal temporal arteritis . we report the simultaneous occurrence of biopsy-proven temporal arteritis in husband and wife . serologic and viral studies were negative , including viral culture of the wife 's temporal artery . the concurrent incidence of giant cell arteritis in a married couple would suggest a common exogenous exposure . 
lovastatin decreases coenzyme q levels in humans . lovastatin is clinically used to treat patients with hypercholesterolemia and successfully lowers cholesterol levels . the mechanism of action of lovastatin is inhibition of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme a reductase , an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of cholesterol from acetyl-coa . inhibition of this enzyme could also inhibit the intrinsic biosynthesis of coenzyme q10 ( coq10 ) , but there have not been definitive data on whether lovastatin reduces levels of coq10 as it does cholesterol . the clinical use of lovastatin is to reduce a risk of cardiac disease , and if lovastatin were to reduce levels of coq10 , this reduction would constitute a new risk of cardiac disease , since it is established that coq10 is indispensable for cardiac function . we have conducted three related protocols to determine whether lovastatin does indeed inhibit the biosynthesis of coq10 . one protocol was done on rats , and is reported in the preceding paper [ willis , r. a. , folkers , k. , tucker , j. l. , ye , c.-q. , xia , l.-j . & tamagawa , h. ( 1990 ) proc . natl. acad . sci . usa 87 , 8928-8930 ] . the other two protocols are reported here . one involved patients in a hospital , and the other involved a volunteer who permitted extraordinary monitoring of coq10 and cholesterol levels and cardiac function . all data from the three protocols revealed that lovastatin does indeed lower levels of coq10 . the five hospitalized patients , 43-72 years old , revealed increased cardiac disease from lovastatin , which was life-threatening for patients having class iv cardiomyopathy before lovastatin or after taking lovastatin . oral administration of coq10 increased blood levels of coq10 and was generally accompanied by an improvement in cardiac function . although a successful drug , lovastatin does have side effects , particularly including liver dysfunction , which presumably can be caused by the lovastatin-induced deficiency of coq10 . 
evaluation of metastatic cardiac calcification in a model of chronic primary hyperparathyroidism . recent reports have fueled an interest in the prevalence and significance of metastatic calcium deposition in patients with chronic hyperparathyroidism . experimental data are limited by the lack of suitable in vivo animal models . we have developed a model of marked hypercalcemia and overproduction of parathyroid hormone using somatic gene transfer . briefly , the process involves infection of cultured rodent fibroblasts ( rat-1 cells ) with a retroviral expression vector that contains the gene encoding human parathyroid hormone . fibroblasts are grown to confluence on collagen-coated dextran microcarrier beads and are injected into the peritoneal cavities of syngeneic fisher rats . human parathyroid hormone production in rat serum is quantified by an immunoradiometric assay for human parathyroid hormone ( 1-84 ) , which does not recognize rat parathyroid hormone . these rats consistently show production of human hormone within a week . levels increase progressively , often to 1 ng/ml within 60 days of injection . serum calcium showed a concomitant rise to an average of 15.5 mg/dl . in this study , 13 rats that had been transplanted with parathyroid hormone-producing fibroblasts were killed 80 days after injection . examination of the skeleton revealed demineralization and histopathologic sequelae of parathyroid hormone excess with extensive osteoclastic bone resorption . examination of the hearts revealed calcification in five of 13 hearts . there was no involvement of major coronary arteries or conducting systems , but there was calcification of cardiac myocytes , primarily in subepicardial region . this model may permit an understanding of the mechanisms for sudden cardiac death in severe hypercalcemia . 
cardiac calcific deposits in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism : preliminary results of a prospective echocardiographic study . to explain the incidence and significance of mitral and aortic valve calcification and calcific deposits in the myocardium , a prospective echocardiographic study was performed with 21 consecutive patients who had primary hyperparathyroidism ( php ) and with 21 age - and sex-matched control subjects with normocalcemia . calcific deposits in the myocardium were seen in 13 patients ( 62 % ) with php , mainly in the interventicular septum , and in one control subject . aortic valve calcification was observed in 12 patients ( 57 % ) with php and in one control subject . calcification of the mitral valve was found in seven patients with php ( 33 % ) and three controls ( 14 % ) . calcification led to mild or moderate stenosis of the aortic valve in three patients with php and of the mitral valve in two patients with php . no stenosis was found in the subjects in the control group . both calcification of the aortic and mitral valves and calcific deposits in the myocardium are common in patients with php and can be detected noninvasively by echocardiography . because of the potential relationship of elevated calcium , calcification , and valvular heart disease , clinical evaluation of php should include echocardiographic studies before surgery is performed and during follow-up examination . 
screening 1140 fifth graders for hypercholesterolemia : family history inadequate to predict results cholesterol screening was performed on 1140 fifth-grade students in scottsdale , az , as part of a school-affiliated , health-education program . the goals were to determine whether family history of heart disease or high cholesterol can predict which children have high cholesterol levels and to examine the feasibility of screening large numbers of elementary school students . among the children studied , the mean cholesterol level was 168.3 mg/dl ( 4.35 mmol/l ) , and 13 percent had cholesterol levels above 200 mg/dl ( 5.20 mmol/l ) . fifty-four percent had a family member with high cholesterol or a heart attack before age 60 years , but 36 percent of the students with cholesterol levels greater than 200 mg/dl ( 5.20 mmol/l ) had a negative family history . family history was neither sensitive nor specific as a predictor of elevated cholesterol levels ( sensitivity 0.64 , specificity 0.47 , and positive predictive value 0.16 for predicting cholesterol levels greater than 200 mg/dl [ 5.20 mmol/l ] ) . large numbers of children were screened safely and efficiently with good student and parental cooperation . results of this study do not support the current recommendations to screen children for hypercholesterolemia based upon their family histories . 
the relation of serum cholesterol to risk of coronary heart disease : implications for the elderly . elevated cholesterol is a known risk factor for coronary heart disease ( chd ) in young and middle-aged persons . because of the high prevalence of chd in a growing elderly population , physicians must decide whether to devote clinical attention to this condition in older patients . longitudinal cohort studies show that while the association between serum cholesterol and chd decreases after age 55 years , it still persists . primary prevention trials performed mostly on middle-aged men have reduced the incidence rate of chd through cholesterol lowering but they have yet to show a reduction in overall mortality . secondary prevention studies of lipid alteration have reported decreased mortality and slowed progression of coronary stenoses , again in predominantly male subjects aged less than 60 years . implications of these findings for care of older patients are discussed along with recommendations for clinical management and future research . 
penetration of the pericardium by a gastric ulcer -- survival after pericardiocentesis . elderly patients often have unusual manifestations of common illnesses . we describe a geriatric patient having a pneumopericardium from pericardial penetration by a gastric ulcer . benign gastric ulceration causing perforation of the pericardium or other cardiac structures was recognized as early as 1854 ; however , until 1964 , the condition was invariably fatal . our patient survived the episode after early pericardiocentesis and medical treatment . aspects of this uncommon clinical entity and a brief review of the literature are described . 
development and prospective application of quantitative 2-day stress-rest tc-99m methoxy isobutyl isonitrile spect for the diagnosis of coronary artery disease . the clinical diagnostic accuracy of 2-day stress/rest quantitative technetium-99m ( tc-99m ) methoxy-isobutyl-isonitrile ( tc-sestamibi ) single photon emission computerized tomography ( spect ) was assessed in a validation population of 61 patients from two different sites using two different camera/computer systems . the study population was made up of 53 catheterized patients , 29 from cedars-sinai medical center ( csmc ) and 24 from the university of texas southwestern medical center ( utsmc ) , and eight utsmc patients with a less than 5 % pre-test likelihood of coronary artery disease . interpretation employed gender-specific normal limits developed in an additional 15 men and 8 women at csmc with less than a 5 % likelihood of significant coronary artery disease . the results from csmc compared with those from utsmc were not different from each other . the overall sensitivity for detection of patients with coronary artery disease ( greater than or equal to 50 % stenosis ) was 94 % ( csmc : 92 % , utsmc : 95 % ) . overall specificity in the five patients with normal coronary arteriograms was 80 % ( csmc : 67 % , utsmc : 100 % ) . the normalcy rate in patients with a low likelihood of coronary artery disease was 88 % . vessel sensitivity was 85 % ( csmc : 84 % , utsmc : 85 % ) , while vessel specificity was 71 % ( csmc : 72 % , utsmc : 69 % ) . there was also no significant difference in the sensitivities and specificities between male and female populations . in addition , the agreement with coronary angiography for assessment of disease extent ( normal coronary arteriogram , single or multivessel disease ) was 75 % ( kappa = 0.6 + / - 0.1 ) . this study demonstrated that tc-sestamibi spect by quantitative analysis is accurate for the detection and localization of coronary artery disease . furthermore , the csmc quantitative method was shown to provide similar diagnostic accuracy when applied to data acquired at a different site using a different camera/computer system . 
clinical characteristics and coronary angiographic findings of patients with unstable angina , acute myocardial infarction , and survivors of sudden ischemic death occurring during and after sport . the clinical characteristics and coronary angiographic findings of 42 well-conditioned subjects with an acute ischemic event related to sport are reported . five patients had unstable angina , 25 had acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) , and 12 were resuscitated victims of sudden ischemic death . twenty-two events occurred during sport ( group a ) and 20 after sport ( group b ) . there were two women and 40 men . the mean age was 46 years ( range 25 to 65 ) . twelve out of 30 patients who smoked cigarettes had an adjunctive risk factor for coronary artery disease . twelve others ( 28 % ) had no identifiable risk factor . prodromal cardiac symptoms were detected in three patients ( group a ) . two patients had previous myocardial infarction ( group b ) . coronary angiography was performed acutely in 39 patients . the distribution of the ischemia-related coronary artery was comparable in both groups . the lesion morphology of 35 culprit coronary arteries was described as concentric in six patients and eccentric with regular borders ( type i lesion ) in 11 and irregular borders ( type ii lesion ) in 18 . eccentric lesions consistent with ruptured plaques prevailed in both groups . associated coronary artery disease was present in 10 patients . there was no relationship between the number of risk factors and the extent of diseased coronary arteries . clinical characteristics and coronary angiographic findings of patients with unstable angina , ami , and sudden death either during or after sport are similar and indicate a common pathogenesis . the probable mechanism of a coronary event related to sport is exercise-induced plaque rupture . in most instances such an event is unexpected and unpredictable . identification of some subjects at risk is possible . 
effects of exercise on myocardial catecholamine content and ischemic injury in dogs with gradual coronary occlusion . the effects of exercise on catecholamine content and the extent of myocardial damage in dogs with ameroid constrictor occlusion of the left circumflex coronary artery were determined . tissue samples from both the anterior and posterior walls of the left ventricle were obtained for determination of catecholamine content , and the rest of the ventricles were processed for histologic examination . when subjected to treadmill exercise for 40 days after surgery , obstructed animals performed significantly less exercise than sham-operated animals and showed significantly higher percentages of ischemia and necrosis in the left ventricle than sedentary , obstructed , sham-operated , or control dogs . levels of norepinephrine and epinephrine in the posterior wall of the left ventricle were significantly lower than in the other groups . our data show that exercise in this well-known model of chronic coronary artery stenosis produced deleterious effects on the myocardium and suggest a marked heterogeneity of catecholamine stores in the myocardium that may have important functional and electrophysiologic consequences . 
the estimation of post-test probability of coronary disease following exercise testing using the sequential application of two bayesian methods . recent studies have revealed that bayesian methods to estimate post-test probability following exercise testing differ in their sensitivity and specificity across the range of post-test probability . to take advantage of the relative strengths of each method , we combined two of these methods into a single method ( dual bayes ) and compared it with the two original methods in 436 patients who underwent stress testing followed within 2 months by coronary arteriography . all patients had post-test probabilities determined using cadenza ( better sensitivity ) . those cadenza-derived probabilities greater than or equal to 50 % were substituted with post-test probabilities determined by diamond and forrester 's original tabular method ( better specificity ) . mean post-test probabilities were as follows : tabular 34 , cadenza 48 , dual bayes 37 ( actual incidence 38 % ) . comparison of sensitivity and specificity at every fifth percentile of post-test probability revealed that the sensitivity of dual bayes was better than that of tabular and equal to that of cadenza at thresholds less than or equal to 10 and that the specificity was better than that of cadenza and equal to that of tabular at thresholds greater than or equal to 60 . therefore using both methods as indicated above was better than using either method alone . 
follow-up results of balloon angioplasty of native coarctation in neonates and infants . the purpose of this study is to present intermediate-term results of balloon angioplasty of native aortic coarctation in neonates and infants less than 1 year of age . during a 60-month-period that ended in january 1990 , 19 infants ages 3 days to 12 months ( median , 2.5 months ) , underwent balloon angioplasty of native coarctation with resultant reduction in peak-to-peak systolic pressure gradient from 39 + / - 12 mm hg ( mean + / - sd ) to 11 + / - 7 mm hg ( p less than 0.001 ) and increase in coarctation segment size from 2.2 + / - 0.8 mm to 4.7 + / - 1.0 mm . none required immediate surgical intervention . thirteen of the 19 ( 68 % ) had severe associated cardiac defects . there was one death ( 5 % ) 2 days after balloon angioplasty , and it was related to associated cardiac defect . one infant was lost to follow-up . it is too soon to restudy one infant . the remaining 16 infants had clinical ( 36 + / - 18 months ) and catheterization ( 12 + / - 4 months ) follow-up data . the residual coarctation gradient ( 22 + / - 15 mm hg ) and coarcted segment size ( 4.4 + / - 1.6 mm ) remain improved ( p less than 0.01 ) when compared with pre-balloon angioplasty values . five of the 16 ( 31 % ) infants ( four were neonates at the time of balloon angioplasty ) had evidence for recoarctation ( defined as gradient greater than 20 mm hg ) and underwent surgical resection ( two ) or repeat balloon angioplasty ( three ) , all with success . none developed aneurysms . 
immediate and follow-up results of balloon angioplasty of postoperative recoarctation in infants and children . the purpose of this article is to present immediate and follow-up results of balloon angioplasty of aortic recoarctations following previous surgery in infants and children . during a 45-month period that ended in june 1989 , nine infants and children , ages 6 months to 7 years , underwent balloon angioplasty of recoarctation with resultant reduction in peak-to-peak systolic pressure gradient from 52 + / - 20 mm hg ( mean + / - sd ) to 16 + / - 8 mm hg ( p less than 0.001 ) and increase in coarctation segment size from 3.4 + / - 1.4 mm to 6.1 + / - 1.6 mm ( p less than 0.01 ) . none required surgical intervention . there were no significant complications . follow-up catheterization ( 16 + / - 7 months ) data in six children and follow-up clinical ( 17 + / - 6 months ) data in all children were available for review . both the residual coarctation pressure gradient ( 6 + / - 6 mm hg ) and coarctation segment size ( 8.2 + / - 2.4 mm ) remain improved ( p less than 0.001 ) when compared with pre-balloon angioplasty values and the pressure gradient fell further ( p less than 0.01 ) when compared with that measured immediately after balloon angioplasty . none developed restenosis , although one child required surgical relief of severe narrowing of isthmus of the aortic arch . none developed aneurysms . on the basis of this experience and that reported in the literature and because of high morbidity and mortality rates associated with repeat surgery for postoperative recoarctation , we recommend balloon angioplasty as the procedure of choice for relief of postoperative recoarctation with significant hypertension . 
clinical evaluation of high-frequency ( ultrasonic ) mechanical debridement in the surgical treatment of calcific aortic stenosis . repair of aortic valve stenosis due to calcific degeneration may lead to hemodynamic and clinical improvement without the problems inherent with prosthetic valves . we have evaluated the use of a device capable of debriding calcium , the cavitron ultrasonic aspirator ( cusa ) , as an adjunct to mechanical debridement in the repair of calcific aortic stenosis . ten patients ( five women ) , ages 63 to 83 years , were studied by m-mode , two-dimensional , and doppler echocardiography before and an average of 26 ( range 3 to 124 ) days after this procedure . the degree of calcification of the valve cusps was clearly reduced . the maximal cusp excursion increased from 0.7 + / - 0.1 cm preoperatively to 1.5 + / - 0.4 cm postoperatively ( p = 0.006 ) . the peak aortic gradient fell from 80 + / - 36 mm hg to 28 + / - 10 mm hg ( p = 0.0007 ) . the mean aortic gradient fell from 53 + / - 20 mm hg to 16 + / - 5 mm hg ( p less than 0.0001 ) . aortic valve area calculated by the continuity equation increased from 0.6 + 0.2 cm2 to 1.6 + / - 0.6 cm2 ( p = 0.0009 ) . no patient had more than mild aortic insufficiency preoperatively . postoperatively , color doppler flow mapping revealed severe aortic insufficiency in two patients . seven patients had further echocardiographic evaluation 99 ( range 33 to 196 ) days after the procedure . these studies revealed the development of severe aortic insufficiency in an additional four patients . four patients with severe symptomatic aortic insufficiency eventually underwent aortic valve replacement . pathology revealed scarring and retraction of the aortic cusps . widening of the commissures was responsible for the severe aortic insufficiency . 
clinical and electrophysiological characteristics of ventricular tachycardia in children with normal hearts . characteristics of 18 patients with clinical ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) and normal hearts documented by physical examination , echocardiography , and angiocardiography were analyzed . there were 13 males and 5 females , aged 1 to 16 years ( mean + / - sd , 9.7 + / - 4.8 years ) . six patients had hemodynamic instability during vt and the other 12 patients were hemodynamically stable . two patients ( 11 % ) presented with sustained vt and 16 ( 89 % ) with episodes of nonsustained vt at varying intervals ( 3 of 16 with repetitive monomorphic vt ) . among 14 patients on whom exercise tests were performed , seven had exercise-induced vt . during electrophysiologic studies , vt was induced in 16 of 18 ( 89 % ) ( in 13 patients with morphology identical to clinical vt ) . vt was induced by programmed stimulation ( single , double , and burst stimulation of the right atrium or right ventricular apex during sinus rhythm or during pacind for eight beats ) in 5 of 18 ( 28 % ) patients ; with isoproterenol , vt was aggravated spontaneously in 6 of 15 ( 40 % ) patients ; and during stimulation vt was induced in 8 of 15 ( 53 % ) patients . among patients whose vt was not induced during programmed stimulation , vt was induced with the addition of isoproterenol in 11 of 12 ( 92 % ) . all 14 patients in follow-up are in stable condition , seven patients with medication and seven without medication . pediatric patients with normal hearts and clinically detected vt usually have vt induced by programmed stimulation , either with or without isoproterenol stimulation . 
the long-term prognosis of patients with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest but no inducible ventricular tachycardia . the long-term prognosis of patients successfully resuscitated from cardiac arrest who do not have acute precipitating factors and in whom ventricular arrhythmias can not be induced during baseline electrophysiologic testing is controversial . the purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the long-term risk of recurrent sudden death and determine the clinical , angiographic , hemodynamic , and electrophysiologic predictors of recurrent cardiac arrest in such patients . twenty-six ( 37 % ) of 71 consecutive patients with a single episode of aborted sudden death did not have inducible ventricular arrhythmias ( less than 7 intraventricular responses ) during baseline drug-free electrophysiologic study and they form the basis of this report . their mean age was 54 + / - 13 ( mean + / - sd ) years and the left ventricular ejection fraction ( lvef ) was 0.47 + / - 0.17 . after a mean follow-up period of 16 months , 11 patients ( 42 % ) had a recurrent cardiac arrest ( fatal in 10 patients ) . the actuarial incidence of recurrent cardiac arrest was 30 + / - 10 % at 1 year and 55 + / - 13 % at 3 years . patients with lvef less than or equal to 0.40 had a significantly higher occurrence of recurrent cardiac arrest than those with lvef greater than 0.40 ( p = 0.02 ; 1-year actuarial incidence of 57 + / - 17 % versus 13 + / - 19 % ) . patients with recurrent sudden death had a significantly greater incidence of dilated cardiomyopathy ( 55 % versus 7 % ; p = 0.02 ) and baseline frequent premature ventricular contractions ( pvcs greater than 10/hr ; 64 % versus 17 % , p = 0.036 ) or nonsustained ventricular tachycardia ( 36 % versus 0 % ; p = 0.37 ) than patients without these characteristics . 
the role of beta-blockade therapy for ventricular tachycardia induced with isoproterenol : a prospective analysis . isoproterenol is sometimes required for ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) induction . however , the role of beta-blockade for treatment of such vt has not been critically assessed . the use of beta-blockade was evaluated prospectively in 14 consecutive patients who required isoproterenol 2.4 + / - 1.3 ( + / - s.d. ) micrograms/min to induce sustained monomorphic vt ( greater than 30 seconds , or requiring termination due to hemodynamic collapse ) after a negative baseline study . the vt mechanisms were enhanced automaticity ( group a , six patients ) , triggered automaticity ( group b , three patients ) , and reentry ( group c , five patients ) . groups a and b had serial intravenous electropharmacologic tests with propranolol alone ( 0.2 mg/kg ) , verapamil alone ( 0.15 mg/kg ) , and propranolol plus verapamil , and group c had serial tests with propranolol alone , procainamide or quinidine ( class ia drug ) alone , and propranolol plus a class ia drug until vt could no longer be induced . all six patients in group a responded to propranolol alone . in group b , one patient responded to verapamil alone , and two patients responded to propranolol plus verapamil . in group c , three patients responded to propranolol alone , one patient responded to a class ia drug alone , and one patient responded to propranolol plus a class ia drug . during a follow-up of 7 to 37 ( 17.9 + / - 10.7 ) ( + / - s.d. ) months , vt has not recurred in any patient . three patients treated initially with propranolol alone have required substitution of amiodarone due to refractory congestive heart failure . in patients requiring isoproterenol for vt induction , beta-blockade alone appears to be effective in preventing reinduction of vt caused by enhanced automaticity . a heterogeneous response occurs when the vt mechanisms are triggered automaticity or reentry . 
rapid control of refractory atrial tachyarrhythmias with high-dose oral amiodarone . to shorten the delay in the onset of antiarrhythmic effect when using amiodarone for the conversion of refractory atrial tachyarrhythmias to sinus rhythm , 19 patients were given oral amiodarone according to a high-dose loading protocol . in 18 of 19 patients ( 95 % ) , sinus rhythm was restored 36 hours ( range , 0 to 96 hours ) after starting amiodarone . the conversion occurred as a result of amiodarone therapy alone within 48 hours in 12 patients ( 63 % ) , and by amiodarone therapy plus electrical cardioversion at 48 to 96 hours in six patients ( 32 % ) . minor side effects were noted in eight patients ( 42 % ) . no major side effects were encountered . the length of hospital stay after initiating amiodarone therapy was 3.6 days ( range , 2 to 5 days ) . high-dose oral amiodarone loading is a safe and effective method for the rapid conversion of atrial tachyarrhythmias to sinus rhythm . 
double-peaking circadian variation in the occurrence of sustained supraventricular tachyarrhythmias . we studied 251 patients less than or equal to 65 years of age admitted for treatment of symptomatic supraventricular tachyarrhythmia to assess whether these arrhythmias begin evenly throughout the day or manifest circadian variation in occurrence . the arrhythmias included 152 episodes of atrial fibrillation , 50 episodes of supraventricular reentry tachycardia , 30 episodes of atrial flutter , and 19 cases of ectopic atrial tachycardia . a total of 209 patients could tell the exact time their symptoms had started . in 38 of them ( 18 % ) , the arrhythmia had begun between midnight and 6:00 am , in 63 ( 30 % ) between 6:01 am and noon , in 46 ( 22 % ) between noon and 6:00 pm , and in 62 ( 30 % ) between 6:01 pm and midnight . this distribution differed significantly from uniform occurrence ( chi square 8.7 , p less than 0.05 ) . fifty patients were using beta-adrenoceptor blocking agents when the arrhythmia occurred . compared with the other 159 patients , they had no morning surge of arrhythmias ( 20 % versus 33.3 % of episodes between 6:01 am and noon ) , but instead a much higher incidence at night ( 34 % versus 13.2 % of episodes between midnight and 6:00 am ) ( chi square 14.4 , p less than 0.005 ) . we conclude that the frequency of onset of sustained supraventricular tachyarrhythmias varies with the time of day , showing nearly equal peaks in the morning and in the evening and a trough at night . the modifying effect of beta-adrenoceptor blockage suggests that many morning arrhythmias are of adrenergic origin while other , probably vagal arrhythmogenic mechanisms , prevail at night . 
the incidence of myocarditis in endomyocardial biopsy samples from patients with congestive heart failure . we present the combined experience of three yugoslavian cardiovascular centers in the application of endomyocardial biopsy for the diagnosis of myocarditis in patients who present clinically with congestive heart failure . the study group comprised 107 patients ( mean age , 40.8 years ; range , 19 to 61 years ) . on the basis of patient history and diagnostic tests , the following clinical diagnoses were established : dilated cardiomyopathy ( 85 ) , myocarditis ( 16 ) , and alcohol-induced heart disease ( 6 ) . emb samples were taken from the left ventricle ( 95 ) or both ventricles ( 12 ) by use of a king 's college bioptome , with a mean of 3.2 samples per patient . histologic evidence of myocarditis was noted in 10 of 85 patients ( 12 % ) with a clinical diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy , in 2 of 6 patients ( 33 % ) with alcohol-induced heart disease , and in 12 of 16 patients ( 75 % ) with a clinical diagnosis of myocarditis . there was confirmation of the clinically suspected diagnosis in 63 % of cases , a change of diagnosis based on histology in 15 % of cases , and nonspecific findings in 22 % . however , useful information was obtained in 78 % of the cases , and there was a 22 % incidence of histologically proven myocarditis for the entire group . our results indicate that endomyocardial biopsy is beneficial in determining the true incidence of myocarditis in patients with a clinical presentation of dilated cardiomyopathy . 
effect of delayed captopril therapy on left ventricular mass and myonecrosis during acute coxsackievirus murine myocarditis . the effect of captopril on coxsackievirus b3 murine myocarditis was investigated . thirty-two , 3-week-old mice were infected with coxsackievirus b3 on day 0 of the study , then randomized into a placebo group or a captopril group starting on day 3 of infection . on day 9 of infection , the mice were put to death . hearts were weighed and processed for light microscopic examination . heart weight was 125 + / - 19 mg in the control group versus 102 + / - 14 mg in the captopril group ( p less than 0.0003 ) . amount of necrosis as a percentage of left ventricular section was 3.5 % ( 2.0 % to 7.5 % ) in the placebo group versus 2.0 % ( 0.0 % to 5.0 % ) in the captopril group ( p less than 0.01 ) . the amount of dystrophic calcification was 5.0 % ( 0.0 % to 27.5 % ) in the placebo group versus 1.3 % ( 0.0 % to 20.0 % ) in the captopril group ( p less than 0.01 ) . the extent of the histopathologic involvement by planimetry was 10.2 % in the placebo group versus 5.4 % in the captopril group ( p = 0.052 ) . we conclude that captopril is beneficial in decreasing left ventricular mass and the amount of myocardial necrosis and calcification in the short term in the murine myocarditis model . 
effects of xamoterol on inotropic and lusitropic properties of the human myocardium and on adenylate cyclase activity . the purpose of the present study was to characterize the effects of xamoterol in the human myocardium . in the presence of forskolin or milrinone , xamoterol increased isometric force of contraction , contraction velocity , and relaxation velocity in isolated , electrically driven preparations from human myocardium , but had no effect alone . there was no difference in the effect of xamoterol between right atrial myocardium and left ventricular myocardium from nonfailing ( nf ) , moderately failing ( nyha ii-iii ) , and severely failing ( nyha iv ) human hearts . the positive inotropic and lusitropic effects of isoprenaline were reduced depending on the severity of heart failure in left ventricular myocardium ( i.e. , nf greater than nyha ii-iii greater than nyha iv ) . in the presence of norepinephrine , xamoterol produced negative inotropic effects similar to those of the beta-adrenoceptor antagonists pindolol and propranolol . xamoterol alone had no effects on force of contraction , whereas pindolol and propranolol markedly reduced contractile force . in nyha class iv , isoprenaline stimulated adenylate cyclase about twofold but xamoterol , like pindolol or propranolol , had no effect . experiments with the beta 1 - and beta 2-selective antagonists cgp 207.12 a and ici 118.551 , respectively , showed that the positive inotropic and lusitropic effects of xamoterol were mediated by beta 1-adrenoceptors . consistently , xamoterol had a selectivity of 13.8 at beta 1-adrenoceptors as measured in radioligand binding experiments . it is concluded that xamoterol acts as a beta 1-adrenoceptor antagonist with a selectivity of 13.8 in human ventricular myocardium . the compound has an intrinsic sympathomimetic activity , as it produces beta 1-adrenoceptor-mediated positive inotropic and lusitropic effects in the presence of forskolin . the beneficial effects of xamoterol in patients with heart failure could be due to prevention of the detrimental effects of norepinephrine such as beta 1-adrenoceptor downregulation of an increase of gi ( inhibitory guanine-nucleotide binding protein ) . 
pericardial effusion in primary hypothyroidism . pericardial effusion is reported to occur in 30 % to 80 % of subjects with hypothyroidism . however , these earlier studies were conducted when the diagnosis of hypothyroidism was only suspected and was confirmed only in the presence of classic clinical features . in contrast , the diagnosis has recently been established in the early mild stage or more often in an asymptomatic stage because of more frequent or routine determinations of thyroid function tests , especially in the elderly . thus the subjects in the older studies were severely hypothyroid at the time of diagnosis and may not be representative of the present hypothyroid population . for this reason , 30 subjects with hypothyroidism were evaluated with echocardiography to reassess the evidence of pericardial effusion in this disorder . only two subjects demonstrated pericardial effusion , and in only one of them with severe disease could the pericardial effusion be attributed to hypothyroidism , since it resolved on the patient 's attaining the euthyroid state . thus the incidence of pericardial effusion was only 3 % to 6 % , depending on the inclusion of one or both subjects , an extremely infrequent occurrence when compared with that of previous studies . moreover , the occurrence of pericardial effusion in hypothyroidism appears to be dependent on the severity of the disease . thus pericardial effusion may be a frequent manifestation in myxedema , an advanced severe stage , as previously found , but a rare association of hypothyroidism , an early mild stage , because of the timeliness with which the latter condition is nowadays detected . 
new calcium antagonists : relevance of vasoselectivity . the calcium antagonists are a heterogeneous class of drugs used to treat a number of cardiovascular disorders . a new generation of calcium antagonists under development have a higher degree of selectivity for vascular smooth muscle and coronary vasculature compared with verapamil , nifedipine , and diltiazem . the clinical relevance of vasoselectivity and its impact on drug selection are discussed . the newer calcium antagonists are important alternatives to older agents and may be associated with improved tolerance and a reduced incidence of adverse effects . their place in therapy has yet to be defined by comparative studies of efficacy and safety . 
peripheral arterial occlusive disease of the extremities in the united states : hospitalization and mortality . paode is an important cause of morbidity and health care expenditures among the elderly . data from the nhds and national vital statistics system were used to assess its impact in the u.s. in 1985 to 1987 , an estimated 229 thousand men and 184 thousand women per year were discharged with any diagnosis of chronic paode . discharge rates were much higher in men and increased sharply with age . lower extremity arteriography was performed during 88 thousand hospitalizations and aorta-iliac-femoral bypass procedures were done during 31 thousand hospitalizations per year . numbers of procedures increased markedly since 1979 . an estimated 60 thousand men and 50 thousand women per year were discharged with any diagnosis of acute paode . embolectomy or thrombectomy of lower limb arteries was listed for 28 thousand discharges per year . few deaths were attributed to paode . although these data are limited by likely incomplete reporting and by the nonspecificity of diagnostic codes , they provide an indication of the magnitude of the problem . an aging population and advances in surgical techniques suggest continued monitoring using multiple data sources . vigorous primary prevention programs are needed to lessen the impact of all atherosclerotic diseases . 
epidemiologic aspects of heart failure . the prevalence of heart failure in northwest london is 0.4 % , a lower figure than that quoted for the united states . heart failure is a common reason ( 5 % ) for medical admission to the hospital in the london area . the problem of heart failure is predominantly in persons over 65 years . coronary artery disease is the most frequent cause , and hypertension is relatively uncommon . in those patients admitted to the hospital , the prognosis is poor . 
can heart failure be prevented , delayed , or reversed ? a review of the clinical course of chronic heart failure demonstrates that current outcomes remain highly unsatisfactory both in mortality and perhaps more important in morbidity . the extraordinary satisfactory functional responses seen in patients who undergo cardiac transplantation clearly identify the primary cause as the status of the heart itself , whatever the pathophysiologic adjustments of the neuroendocrine system , and interventions of the wide variety of drugs . since donor hearts are unlikely to be available even from younger sufferers of these clinical syndromes , prevention must be the hallmark . protection of the viability of myocytes , such as in acute myocarditis and acute infarction , is essential . myocardial collagen undergoes continual synthesis , and production is greatly stimulated in the presence of hypertrophy caused by increased wall stress . it is possible that excess collagen is intimately involved with diastolic ventricular dysfunction , but that this may be a reversible process if the collagen-producing stimulus is removed . thus reduction in wall stress and reversibility of ventricular hypertrophy appear to be promising directions . however , to limit the catastrophic effects of chronic heart failure , early recognition of the precursors of these syndromes , prevention of progression , and surgical intervention in valvular heart disease at an optimal point in time are essential . 
regional blood flow supply and demand in heart failure . heart failure results not only in a fall in cardiac output but also in a redistribution of blood flow favoring some regional beds ( the brain and the heart ) at the expense of others ( the kidney and working skeletal muscle ) . the chronic resting hypoperfusion of striated muscle is further compromised with exercise . maladaptive vasoconstrictor control mechanisms prevent the redirection of blood flow from nonworking muscle and liver to working muscle . this inappropriate preservation of nonworking organ perfusion further compromises the functional capacity of working muscle and is associated with evidence for metabolic deconditioning with reduced oxygen extraction and impaired oxidative phosphorylation . it is becoming increasingly clear that the clinical response to the inotropic and vasodilator therapy used in heart failure is in part dependent on the differing regional blood flow profiles of the various agents studied . the ability of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors to redirect blood flow away from nonworking regional beds to exercising muscle , and thereby to reestablish an appropriate physiologic response to changing metabolic needs , may be the overriding reason for their long-term efficacy . certainly in the future the comprehensive therapy of heart failure will have to take into consideration not only central hemodynamic but also regional blood flow/supply and demand issues . 
compensation and overcompensation in congestive heart failure . the compensatory mechanisms that develop in response to heart failure have been well defined . in this review , it is argued that each compensatory mechanism leads to overcompensation and that there is no way to distinguish between the beneficial aspects of the former and the harmful effects of the latter . therapeutic agents that maintain rather than decrease blood pressure might perhaps be more beneficial because of the crucial role of hypotension in initiating both compensation and overcompensation . 
medical management of chronic heart failure : inotropic , vasodilator , or inodilator drugs ? on the basis of pathophysiologic mechanisms , the medical therapy of today for chronic heart failure is reviewed . the advantages and disadvantages of the vasodilator drugs and the inotropic drugs are presented . finally , the therapeutic value of the inodilator drugs , which combine the central myocardial effects of positive inotropic agents with those of peripheral vasodilators , is discussed . in particular , the orally available dopaminergic agents , such as ibopamine , which interact with beta-receptors in the heart ( mediating a positive inotropic effect ) as well as with dopaminergic receptors in the peripheral vessels ( mediating a systemic vasodilator effect ) and in the kidneys ( potentiating the natriuretic effect of diuresis ) , seem to be an advancement in the modern medical therapy of chronic heart failure . data are shown during long-term treatment with ibopamine , in which the sustained clinical benefit in heart failure was not diminished , despite a decrease of the adrenergic receptors in blood cells . dopamine plasma concentration was permanently normalized during long-term treatment . the discrepancy between clinical improvement and the measured adrenergic downregulation may be due to the interference of the inodilator with neurohormonal systems at multiple sites and is probably independent of receptor activation . it is suggested that the biosynthesis of noradrenaline is improved by increasing intracellular dopamine transport . 
physiology and pharmacology of cardiovascular catecholamine receptors : implications for treatment of chronic heart failure . in the sympathetic nervous system the physiologic effects of the endogenous catecholamines noradrenaline ( na ) and adrenaline ( a ) are mediated by alpha - and beta-adrenoreceptors ( ars ) . both ar-types can be subdivided into two major subtypes : alpha-ars into alpha-1 ( predominant effect : vasoconstriction ) and alpha-2 ( presynaptic : inhibition of na-release ; postsynaptic : vasoconstriction ) , beta-ars into beta-1 ( cardiac effects , renal renin release , and lipolysis ) and beta-2 ( presynaptic : facilitation of na-release ; postsynaptic : vascular , bronchial , and uterine smooth muscle relaxation , glycogenolysis and possibly part of the a-mediated cardiac effects ) . during the last 30 years growing evidence has accumulated that dopamine ( da ) , the third endogenous catecholamine and the immediate precursor of na , may also cause peripheral effects through stimulation of specific da-receptors , in addition to its known action at alpha - and beta-ars . it is now well accepted that at least two different da-receptors are present in many peripheral tissues ( da1 and da2 ) , including those of the cardiovascular and autonomic nervous system . they seem to be involved in dilation of certain vascular beds , inhibition of na-release during nerve stimulation , natriuresis , and aldosterone release . in chronic heart failure cardiac beta-ar function decreases ( presumably due to endogenous " down-regulation " by the elevated catecholamines ) , and this decrease is related to the severity of heart failure ( judged clinically by new york heart association functional class ) . the human heart contains both functional beta-1 and beta-2 ars ; cardiac beta-1 and beta-2 ars seem to be differentially affected by different kinds of heart failure ; in end-stage dilated cardiomyopathy beta-1 ars are selectively reduced , whereas beta-2 ars are nearly normal . 
how to select a drug for the long-term treatment of chronic heart failure . first-line drugs for the treatment of chronic congestive heart failure should produce immediate symptomatic benefit , improve exercise tolerance , and thereby improve the quality of life . they should preferentially be active as monotherapy or at least reduce the need for comedication . the drugs must be safe and well tolerated by patients and change , in the end , the natural history of the disease , so that sudden death will be prevented and life expectancy improves . none of the currently available drugs satisfies all these criteria . diuretics , digitalis , converting-enzyme inhibitors , and ibopamine come close to the described ideal . 
the placebo effect in heart failure . many patients who are enrolled in controlled clinical trials of new drugs for the treatment of heart failure show favorable hemodynamic and clinical responses to placebo therapy . this " placebo effect " results from both the creation of a supportive therapeutic environment and the spontaneous improvement that is commonly seen when measurements of symptoms and cardiac function are repeated frequently over long intervals of time . three months of treatment with a placebo produces a reduction in symptoms in 25 % to 35 % of patients , an increase in cardiac output and a decrease in pulmonary wedge pressure , and an increase in exercise tolerance of up to 90 to 120 seconds . physicians commonly seek to maximize the " placebo effect , " since the goal of treatment in the clinical setting is to improve the quality of the patient 's life . on the other hand , clinical investigators seek to minimize the " placebo effect , " since the goal of a research study is to test the hypothesis that the new drug is superior to a placebo . 
efficacy of ibopamine in the treatment of heart failure . loss of myocardial contractility , reflexly enhanced vasoconstriction , and neuroendocrine excitation are the pathophysiologic hallmarks of low-output heart failure . drugs that counter both consequences afford considerable therapeutic potential in retarding and perhaps even in staying the consequences of the syndrome . ibopamine possesses such potential through its unique ability to stimulate both dopaminergic - and beta-adrenoreceptors in the heart and circulatory system . stimulation of dopaminergic - receptors and beta 2-adrenoreceptors results in vasodilatation in all regional vascular territories . beta 2-adrenoreceptor agonist activity also affords mild positive inotropic activity in the heart , whereas stimulation of presynaptic dopaminergic - receptors ( da2 ) attenuates the increased sympathetic neural outflow . the drug also suppresses the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system in addition to having a direct natriuretic activity . the pharmacodynamic effects of ibopamine , exerted through its metabolite epinine , are translated into measurable therapeutic benefits in patients with chronic heart failure . the increase in peripheral blood flow induced in all regional vascular territories , including the kidneys , is associated with increased cardiac output and stroke volume and reduction in left ventricular pressure work , wall stress , and myocardial oxygen consumption . plasma norepinephrine , angiotensin , and aldosterone are also reduced , and renal sodium excretion is enhanced . these hemodynamic and neuroendocrine activities , which are not subject to tolerance during sustained administration of the drug , are accompanied by clinically significant improvement in symptoms , exercise tolerance , and the new york heart association classification of disability . more important , no proarrhythmic effects have been observed during sustained treatment , and the minimal side effects observed during long-term treatment enhance the safety profile of the drug . 
cardioprotective effects of amlodipine on ischemia and reperfusion in two experimental models . the cardioprotective effect of amlodipine , a long-acting dihydropyridine derivative , was studied in 2 experimental models of ischemia and reperfusion . isolated and blood-perfused feline hearts were made globally ischemic for 60 minutes and then reperfused for 60 minutes . alterations of left ventricular developed pressure and compliance were monitored in both amlodipine-treated hearts and saline-treated control animals . changes in perfusion pressure indicated that amlodipine significantly reduced myocardial oxygen consumption and coronary vascular resistance . furthermore , a progressive increase in resting left ventricular diastolic pressure indicated that amlodipine , administered before the onset of global ischemia , attenuated the development of ischemic contracture . return of contractile function 60 minutes after reperfusion and maintenance of tissue concentrations of electrolytes were significantly better in the amlodipine-treated group than in the control animals . in intact canine hearts , regional myocardial ischemia was induced for 90 minutes , followed by 6 hours of reperfusion . although the hemodynamic variables and the size of the region of risk did not differ significantly between treated animals and control animals , the infarct size was significantly smaller in the amlodipine-treated group than in the control animals , and a gradual reduction in coronary blood flow was observed in the control group that was prevented in the amlodipine group . a comparison of these findings with those observed with oxygen radical scavengers also is discussed . a detailed report of these studies was published in the american journal of cardiology ( 1989 ; 64:101 i-116i ) . this review is included here to maintain continuity of the symposium for the convenience of the reader . 
role of echocardiography in acute myocardial infarction . interventional therapies such as thrombolytic agents , angioplasty and surgery have emerged as important options in the management of patients with myocardial infarction . these therapies are aimed at improving myocardial perfusion with the ultimate improvement or restoration of myocardial function . two-dimensional echocardiography with digital storage and display is an ideal technique for temporally monitoring regional ventricular function and the effectiveness of interventional therapy . by design , 2-dimensional echocardiography is noninvasive and can be performed conveniently at the bedside . for these reasons , echocardiography is the principal imaging technique at indiana university hospital for patients with acute myocardial infarction . computer retrieval of echocardiograms can be achieved in about 10 seconds at the nurses ' station in the coronary care unit . with the availability of such an examination , the physician has a better understanding of the site , size and function of the infarct area . the state of the noninfarcted myocardium is also assessed and may be critical to the patient 's prognosis . with the digital recordings , serial studies can be displayed side-by-side , making it easier for the physician to follow the natural history or to judge the effect of therapy . echocardiography also is useful in identifying many complications that can occur with myocardial infarction . for these reasons , and because echocardiography will also show related cardiac problems , it is indispensable in the management of acute myocardial infarction . 
progress in cardioprotection : the role of calcium antagonists . calcium antagonists are now widely used for the treatment of clinical hypertension and angina pectoris . they are efficacious for the treatment of vasospastic , fixed atherosclerotic and mixed angina ; they reduce the incidence of silent ischemia ; and they have been shown to reduce postmyocardial infarct angina . experimental data suggest that they may have certain cardioprotective properties in cases of acute myocardial ischemia and infarction , stunned myocardium , diastolic dysfunction , left ventricular hypertrophy and atherosclerosis . moreover , they have been shown to improve exercise performance , as well as the diastolic abnormalities in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . in animals , they may delay or reduce the extent of myocardial necrosis after coronary occlusion or coronary occlusion followed by reperfusion , and in low doses that do not alter the hemodynamic profile , they have been shown to enhance the return of ventricular function in animals with stunned myocardium . however , the early first-generation calcium antagonists ( nifedipine , verapamil , diltiazem ) have not been shown to reduce myocardial infarct size or to enhance survival in patients with acute myocardial infarction . there now are clinical studies that suggest that , unlike beta blockers or nitrates , nifedipine may slow the development of atherosclerotic progression in humans over a 2-year period , and it seems likely that in the 1990s there will be further expansion of the use of calcium antagonists for not only angina and hypertension but also for aspects of cardioprotection . that calcium antagonists may delay , prevent or possibly regress atherosclerotic lesions is an exciting possibility . 
protecting the vasculature : an eye toward the future . although calcium antagonists were originally developed for use in the management of patients with angina pectoris , they are now used in the management of other cardiovascular disorders , including hypertension . more recently , the calcium antagonists have been under investigation for their potential protective role in atherosclerosis . coupled with these new possibilities for therapeutic use are the development of new , long-acting , tissue-specific calcium antagonists . amlodipine belongs to this group , and although it is a dihydropyridine-based calcium antagonist , its pharmacologic profile differs from that of other dihydropyridine-based calcium antagonists . differences include : different ph optimum for receptor binding , different rates of association and dissociation , and differences in allosteric interaction with the diltiazem and verapamil binding sites . amlodipine , when given orally to rabbits receiving a high-cholesterol diet , reduces atheroma formation . evidence of its ability to protect the vasculature is provided by its ability to significantly increase ( p less than 0.001 ) survival in stroke-prone hypertensive rats . 
bone mineral density in spontaneous hypertension : differential effects of dietary calcium and sodium . dietary calcium and sodium have been postulated to modify both bone mineral status and blood pressure regulation in humans and animals . the spontaneously hypertensive rat ( shr ) manifests several defects in calcium metabolism that may contribute to its hypertension . blood pressure and bone mineral status were measured in shr and normotensive wistar-kyoto rats ( wky ) as a marker of whole animal calcium metabolism . in addition , the effect of alterations in dietary calcium and sodium on bone status were examined . at 6 weeks of age , seven male shr and seven male wky were placed on a control diet . at the same age , 28 shr and 28 wky were randomized to four diets containing either 2.0 % or 0.1 % calcium and 1.0 % or 0.25 % sodium . four markers of bone mineral status were analyzed : bone density measured by direct photon absorptiometry , and total bone calcium , phosphorus , and magnesium content measured by atomic absorption spectrophotometry . the shr exhibited significantly lower levels ( p less than 0.001 ) of bone density and bone magnesium content than the wky , whereas bone phosphorus and calcium did not differ between the two strains . the 2.0 % calcium diets resulted in increased bone density and bone calcium content , and lower bone magnesium in both strains . the 1.0 % sodium diets were associated with decreased bone density in the shr , but not in the wky . these findings identify another indicator of disturbed calcium metabolism in the shr that may be related to impaired renal calcium handling . they are consistent with previously reported reductions in renal calcium reabsorption and decreased intestinal calcium transport in older shr . 
possible triggering of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation in normal hearts by psychological stressors : a report of two cases . paroxysmal atrial fibrillation was triggered by psychological stress in two patients , both of whom had normal echocardiograms and coronary angiography . neither patient was alcoholic or had ingested ethanol in relation to the onset of atrial fibrillation and both were free of metabolic derangements . possible mechanisms involved in the triggering of atrial fibrillation are discussed . 
incidence of perioperative myocardial ischemia detected by different electrocardiographic systems to determine the extent to which different electrocardiographic systems account for differences in reported incidence of perioperative myocardial ischemia , the authors simultaneously recorded in 109 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting ( cabg ) the v5 or modified cm5 lead on five ecg systems by means of a specially constructed common v5 lead . the systems included a spacelabs alpha 14 model series 3200 ecg cardule at bandwidths of 0.05-125 hz and 0.5-30 hz ( a typical operating room monitor ) , a marquette electronics mac ii ecg at 0.05-40 hz and 0.05-100 hz ( a standard ecg ) , and a del mar holter recorder at 0.1-100 hz . relative st-segment position and incidence of new ischemia compared to the preoperative ecg were determined in 109 sets of preinduction traces and 877 sets of intraoperative traces . st-segment position on the three recording systems conforming with the american heart association ( aha ) low-frequency response recommendations ( 0.05 hz ) were similar . compared to the standard ecg , st-segment position on the spacelabs at 0.5-30 hz was consistently more negative . displacement on the holter was consistently less negative and less positive . by the 0.1-mv displacement criterion for diagnosis of myocardial ischemia on any one ecg system , 16.5 % of patients on arrival and 32.1 % of patients intraoperatively suffered new myocardial ischemia . based on the operating room monitor , arrival and intraoperative ischemia were present in 15.6 and 27.5 % of patients , respectively . ischemia at the same periods was less frequent by the standard ecg system ( 5.5 and 12.8 % , respectively ) and least frequent by the holter recorder ( 4.6 and 8.3 % , respectively ) . 
effect of halothane and isoflurane on postischemic " stunned " myocardium in the dog . short periods of coronary artery occlusion are known to produce prolonged periods of ventricular dysfunction . the effects of halothane or isoflurane on contractility and metabolism in postischemic " stunned " myocardium were studied in an open-chest canine model in which the left anterior descending artery ( lad ) was occluded for 15 min and then reperfused . regional function in the lad and circumflex artery ( circ ) areas were measured with sonomicrometry , and metabolic data were determined from simultaneous arterial and venous measurements of oxygen and lactate . halothane and isoflurane produced equivalent decreases in systolic shortening in both normal ( circ ) and stunned ( lad ) areas of the heart . furthermore , the amount of depression was similar with either halothane or isoflurane . halothane 0.75 mac significantly decreased systolic shortening in both the lad region ( from 38.8 + / - 25.9 % to 11.0 + / - 21.8 % ) and in the circ region ( from 116.7 + / - 24.7 % to 87.5 + / - 23.3 % ) . at equivalent mac concentrations of isoflurane , the values were 42.5 + / - 45.7 to -7.0 + / - 49.9 % in the lad region and 91.5 + / - 11.9 % to 66.9 + / - 23.9 % in the circ area . at 1.5-mac halothane , systolic shortening in the lad region decreased from 47.9 + / - 47.2 % to -0.6 + / - 20.3 % and in the circ area from 114.6 + / - 16.8 % to 76.0 + / - 18.7 % . isoflurane at 1.5 mac produced significant decreases , from 23.4 + / - 54.5 % to -15.6 + / - 27.1 % in the lad region and from 94.4 + / - 33.2 % to 61.3 + / - 28.2 in the circ area . 
intravenous nicardipine : an effective new agent for the treatment of severe hypertension . fifty-six patients with severe hypertension were treated with intravenous nicardipine for infusion periods of eight to twenty-four hours . each patient achieved satisfactory blood pressure control during the infusion period with a mean controlling dose of 7.85 mg/hr . the dose of nicardipine needed for sustained blood pressure control correlated with untreated diastolic blood pressure but not with untreated systolic blood pressure . these results demonstrate the potential usefulness of intravenous nicardipine for the treatment of severe hypertension requiring rapid lowering , and they suggest also that the severity of pretreatment diastolic hypertension might be a useful indicator of the dose required for blood pressure control . 
calcium antagonists in the management of patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage : a review . cerebral arterial vasospasm and infarction is the leading cause of death and disability among patients who reach a major medical center after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) . recent evidence suggests that two calcium antagonists , nimodipine or nicardipine , may be useful in preventing this important complication of sah . this paper reviews the current status of these two calcium antagonists in the management of sah . 
cardiovascular effects of nicardipine . nicardipine , a new 1-4 dihydropyridine calcium antagonist , has chemical properties that allow oral and stable intravenous preparations . it is the first intravenous dihydropyridine calcium antagonist available in the united states . among its drug class it has a unique chemical structure that affords properties useful in the treatment of acute cardiovascular conditions , such as myocardial ischemia , congestive heart failure , hypertension , cerebrovascular disease , and other related disorders . in patients with coronary artery disease , intravenous nicardipine has been found to reduce myocardial oxygen demand by reducing afterload and increasing myocardial oxygen supply through coronary vasodilatation . it enhances left ventricular performance and augments coronary blood flow beyond that required by increased myocardial oxygen consumption . nicardipine may also offer protection from ischemic injury to the heart and central nervous system . alone and in combination with other antihypertensive agents , nicardipine has been shown to be effective in the treatment of mild to moderate hypertension . it is safe for use in patients with certain types of conduction disturbances because it does not greatly affect sinoatrial and atrioventricular conduction . additional advantages for nicardipine 's use in the management of acute cardiovascular disorders are its rapid onset and short duration of action . 
postoperative hypertension : a prospective , placebo-controlled , randomized , double-blind trial , with intravenous nicardipine hydrochloride . nicardipine hydrochloride , a new calcium channel blocker for intravenous use , has been compared with placebo in a prospective , randomized , double-blind trial on postoperative hypertension . of 175 patients who signed preoperative consent , 24 ( 13.7 % ) met entry criteria . hypertension was significantly better controlled in nicardipine-treated patients compared with those receiving placebo ( 93 % versus 30 % , p less than 0.05 ) . all the placebo failures were subsequently successfully treated with nicardipine . there were no significant complications in either group . the authors conclude that nicardipine hc1 is an effective , safe therapy for postoperative hypertension . further studies are now indicated comparing it with other drugs currently used to treat this condition . 
anterior segment ischemia : a complication of retinal detachment repair in a patient with sickle cell trait . anterior segment ischemia ( asi ) is a dreaded complication of retinal detachment surgery particularly in patients with predisposing factors such as sickle cell disease . we report a case of asi after scleral buckling in an otherwise healthy black patient with sickle cell trait . conditions of relative hypoxia intraoperatively from either anesthesia or surgical manipulation may precipitate vasoocclusive phenomena in these normally asymptomatic patients . since the incidence of sickle cell trait in the black population in the united states is 8.5 % , we recommend these patients have a preoperative sickle test followed by hemoglobin electrophoresis with quantification if positive . the presence of sickle cell trait should alert the surgeon to the risk of asi , and factors predisposing to hypoxia should be minimized when possible . 
central retinal artery obstruction in herpes zoster ophthalmicus and cerebral vasculopathy . we present a case of acute central retinal artery obstruction in association with herpes zoster ophthalmicus and delayed cerebral vasculopathy . retinal vascular obstruction is rare in zoster , and its occurrence during postherpetic cerebral vasculopathy has not been reported previously to our knowledge . the syndrome of delayed cerebral vasculopathy is discussed as is its possible relationship to central retinal artery obstruction . 
kawasaki disease : echocardiographic features in 91 cases presenting in the united kingdom . ninety-one patients with kawasaki disease were examined by cross sectional echocardiography between 1980 and 1988 . in the 75 patients evaluated during the acute phase of the illness ( the first month ) , the first echocardiographic examination was carried out at a mean time of 16 days ( range 5-30 ) and coronary arterial lesions were seen in 21 ( 28 % ) . two patients with medium sized aneurysms had myocardial infarctions , and one died . coronary arterial lesions persisted in 17 ( 23 % ) patients , most often in younger children . the remaining 16 patients were examined from one month to four years after their acute illnesses , and this group did not have coronary arterial abnormalities . seven patients with coronary artery lesions have reached school age and require regular echocardiographic examination and exercise electrocardiography . selective coronary arteriography may be indicated in some patients to identify coronary artery stenosis , which the japanese experience has shown may progress for several years after the acute illness . 
severe hypertension after liver transplantation in alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency . five children with alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency and terminal liver disease received liver grafts ; all five became hypertensive and four developed hypertensive encephalopathy . there was evidence of renal disease preoperatively and renal biopsy specimens showed variable glomerulonephritic histology with iga nephropathy in one , mesangial-proliferative changes in two , and mesangio-capillary glomerulonephritis type i in two . four hypertensive episodes were preceded by a fall in creatinine clearance . the association of glomerulonephritis with alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency in children is more common than has been recognised . affected patients are prone to severe hypertension of probable renal origin after liver transplantation and the renal lesion may affect long term prognosis . 
central nervous system vasculitis after chickenpox -- cause or coincidence ? a 7.5 year old boy , known to have a seizure disorder , presented with an infarct in the left middle cerebral artery territory , 10 weeks after severe chickenpox . immunofluorescent antibody titre to the varicella zoster virus in the cerebrospinal fluid was 1:32 . cerebral angiography showed evidence of focal vasculitis . he presented again seven months later with an acute exacerbation of seizures . magnetic resonance imaging of the brain showed an old posterior extension of the infarct , but a repeated angiography demonstrated an improvement in the vasculitic process . cerebrospinal fluid antibody titre was again 1:32 . although this may have been an unfortunate coincidence , a possible association between chickenpox and vasculitis , similar to that reported with herpes zoster , and with potentially significant clinical implications , should be considered . as a definite proof can be obtained only by a brain biopsy , however , which is generally not indicated in such cases , only additional clinical reports can lead to delineation of this association as a definite entity . 
patient profiling : individualization of hypertension therapy . although the stepped-care approach remains the cornerstone of antihypertensive therapy , the patient 's profile must also be considered . important issues include the patient 's age , race and activity level , potential for hypertensive complications , presence of other diseases , cost of medications and probability of adherence to the recommended drug regimen . nonpharmacologic treatment based on lifestyle changes is a useful adjunct to drug therapy , but it is not sufficient to control hypertension in most patients . selection of pharmacologic therapy must be based on a knowledge of each drug 's mode of action and side effects , as well as the characteristics of special patient populations . 
acute pulmonary oedema following administration of ornithine-8-vasopressin . we report the case of a patient who developed acute pulmonary oedema following a short and uneventful surgical procedure . among the differential diagnoses , the role of ornithine-8-vasopressin is emphasized . 
comparison of pulse oximeters : accuracy at low arterial pressure in volunteers . a laboratory model was developed of limb hypoperfusion in volunteers , using parital occlusion of the brachial artery with consequent reduction in radial artery pulse pressure . this was used to compare the function of 13 pulse oximeters and the effect of reduced pulse pressure and mild hypoxia on these devices . with the exception of one device , all the pulse oximeters studied demonstrated similar accuracies at pulse pressures exceeding 20 mm hg . there were however , significant differences between several of the pulse oximeters in both ability to display readings and accuracy of readings displayed when brachial artery occlusion reduced radial artery pulse pressures equal to or less than 20 mm hg . 
non-invasive monitoring of finger arterial pressure in patients with raynaud 's phenomenon : effects of exposure to cold . we studied the effects of exposure to cold on finger arterial pressure ( fap ) measured by a finger arterial pressure monitor in 15 patients with raynaud 's phenomenon and in 15 healthy volunteers . the cold exposure induced vasoconstriction of the peripheral vascular bed as judged by the plethysmograph of a pulse oximeter and had marked effects on fap values compared with upper arm arterial pressure . immediately after the cold exposure , fap decreased significantly ( p less than or equal to 0.01 ) in both groups . however , during the subsequent 20 min , fap values increased in relation to upper arm pressure . finally , fap values were greater than upper arm pressure in the control individuals , but not in patients with raynaud 's phenomenon . these results have implications for non-invasive monitoring of arterial pressure by the finger pressure device . clinically , significant problems may arise in the monitoring of fap in patients with a systemic connective tissue disease affecting peripheral circulation . 
preanaesthetic medication with clonidine . the purpose of this study was to evaluate oral clonidine in a dose of 0.3 mg as a routine premedicant . sixty-nine normotensive female patients were studied in a randomized double-blind investigation in which clonidine was compared with an inert treatment . clonidine produced a significant reduction in anxiety ( p less than 0.05 ) and sedation and a reduction in the sleep dose of methohexitone ( p less than 0.05 ) . tachycardia in response to intubation was attenuated by clonidine ( p less than 0.05 ) . however , the magnitude of the increase in arterial pressure after intubation was not affected . intraoperative and postoperative hypotension were common after premedication with clonidine 0.3 mg and caution is urged in its use as a premedicant . 
sinus arrest induced by trivial nasal stimulation during alfentanil-nitrous oxide anaesthesia . a case is reported of bradycardia and sinus arrest induced by insertion of a nasal temperature probe . other possible causes of bradycardia and sinus arrest under anaesthesia are reviewed briefly . evidence for the neurological basis of a nasocardiac reflex , similar to the oculocardiac reflex , is presented . a minor , trivial stimulus may elicit this reflex . 
anaesthetic hazards of aortocaval fistula . a 66-yr-old man was anaesthetized for repair of a suspected ruptured aortic aneurysm . he became deeply cyanosed and suffered two episodes of asystole as the surgeons entered the abdomen . after the aorta was cross-clamped his condition improved markedly and no further problems ensued . surgical exploration demonstrated intact aneurysms of the aorta and left iliac artery , the former containing a 3-4 cm long aortocaval fistula . the aneurysms and fistula were repaired and his further course was uncomplicated . potential causes for the cyanosis and cardiac arrest in this patient are discussed . 
conjunctival involvement in pemphigus vulgaris : a clinical , histopathological and immunofluorescence study . eleven patients with pemphigus vulgaris and with eye complaints had histopathological and direct immunofluorescence ( dif ) studies on biopsies of their conjunctivae . in eight of the patients the ocular symptoms preceded the other manifestations of pemphigus . none of the 11 patients had any detectable conjunctival blisters or erosions . the conjunctivitis in three of the patients proved on histopathology and dif to be a manifestation of pemphigus vulgaris . in the remaining patients , conjunctival hyperaemia with or without a mucoid discharge was observed , but there were no specific histopathological features , although one of them had a positive dif . 
treatment of severe acne with isotretinoin in patients with inflammatory bowel disease . four patients with inflammatory bowel disease and severe cystic acne were treated with isotretinoin . two patients had a successful course of treatment without any gastrointestinal side-effects . one patient had two episodes of profuse rectal bleeding that were probably related to pre-existing haemorrhoids . the fourth patient had a flare-up of his crohn 's disease after starting isotretinoin . 
the population mean predicts the number of deviant individuals objective -- to examine the relation between the prevalence of deviation and the mean for the whole population in characteristics such as blood pressure and consumption of alcohol . design -- re-examination of standardised data from the intersalt study , an international , multicentre study on the determinants of blood pressure . setting and subjects -- samples of adults representing 52 populations in 32 countries . main outcome measures -- the relations , expressed as correlation coefficients , between the mean population values for blood pressure , body mass index , alcohol consumption , and sodium intake and the prevalence of , respectively , hypertension ( greater than or equal to 140 mm hg ) , obesity ( body mass index greater than or equal to 30 kg/m2 ) , high alcohol intake ( greater than or equal to 300 ml/week ) , and high sodium intake ( greater than or equal to 250 mmol/day ) . results -- there were close and independent associations between the population mean and the prevalence of deviance for each of the variables examined : correlation coefficients were 0.85 for blood pressure , 0.94 for body mass index , 0.97 for alcohol intake , and 0.78 for sodium intake . conclusions -- these findings imply that distributions of health related characteristics move up and down as a whole : the frequency of " cases " can be understood only in the context of a population 's characteristics . the population thus carries a collective responsibility for its own health and well being , including that of its deviants . 
combined alpha/beta-blockade versus beta 1-selective blockade in essential hypertension in black and white patients . the purpose of this multicenter investigation was to determine the efficacy and safety of the alpha/beta-blocker labetalol versus the beta 1-selective beta-blocker atenolol in white and black patients with essential hypertension . equal numbers of black and white patients were enlisted to form four treatment groups ( white patients taking either labetalol or atenolol and black patients taking either labetalol or atenolol ) . two hundred ninety-two patients ( 152 white and 140 black patients ) with essential hypertension characterized by a standing diastolic blood pressure of 105 to 119 mm hg ( inclusive ) were recruited for this trial . patients were randomized to either labetalol ( dosage titrated from 200 to 1600 mg/day ) or atenolol ( dosage titrated from 50 to 100 mg/day ) . the therapeutic goal was achievement of a standing diastolic blood pressure of 90 mm hg or less or a fall of 15 mm hg in diastolic pressure from baseline value at the end of the placebo run in period . at the end of the study there were no significant differences in blood pressure or heart rate changes in the supine position between the labetalol and atenolol groups . in contrast , labetalol produced greater reduction in both the standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure ( -12 / -13 mm hg , respectively ) compared with atenolol ( -7 / -9 mm hg ; p less than 0.05 ; p less than 0.005 , respectively ) . the greatest decrease in blood pressure was observed in white patients receiving labetalol . in black patients the decrease in blood pressure was greater in those treated with labetalol compared with atenolol , particularly with respect to the systolic blood pressure . we conclude that the alpha 1-blocking property of labetalol provides an additional lowering of the blood pressure over that seen with beta 1-blockade alone , especially in the standing position , and this enhanced efficacy is not confined to one radical group . 
elevated plasma noradrenaline concentrations in patients with low-output cardiac failure : dependence on increased noradrenaline secretion rates . 1 . plasma noradrenaline concentrations are elevated in patients with congestive heart failure ; however , the pathogenesis of these elevated noradrenaline levels is controversial . 2 . possible mechanisms for elevated noradrenaline concentrations in patients with congestive heart failure include increased noradrenaline secretion , decreased clearance of noradrenaline , and a combination of increased secretion and decreased clearance . 3 . in the present study , plasma noradrenaline clearance and apparent secretion rates were determined using a whole-body steady-state radionuclide tracer method in six otherwise healthy patients with moderate degrees of low-output cardiac failure and in six normal control subjects . 4 . the venous plasma noradrenaline level was elevated in the patients with congestive heart failure as compared with the control subjects ( 4.18 + / - 1.34 versus 1.54 + / - 0.16 nmol/l , p less than 0.05 ) . there was no stimulation of the adrenal medulla as evident by normal plasma adrenaline levels in both groups ( 0.19 + / - 0.04 versus 0.18 + / - 0.02 nmol/l , not significant ) . the apparent secretion rate of noradrenaline was elevated in the patients with congestive heart failure ( 4.75 + / - 1.95 versus 1.78 + / - 0.18 nmol min-1 m-2 , p less than 0.05 ) , whereas the clearance rate of noradrenaline was similar in the two groups ( 1.26 + / - 0.27 versus 1.16 + / - 0.02 l min-1 m-2 , not significant ) . 5 . we conclude that the high peripheral venous plasma noradrenaline concentrations in patients with mildly decompensated low-output cardiac failure are initially due to increased secretion , rather than to decreased metabolic clearance , perhaps in response to diminished effective arterial blood volume . 
pineal hyperactivity in spontaneously hypertensive rats : muscarinic regulation of indole metabolism . 1 . choline acetyltransferase activity and [ 3h ] quinuclidinyl benzylate-binding sites were detected in the pineal gland of normotensive wistar-kyoto rats and of spontaneously hypertensive rats . 2 . in vitro , muscarinic activation by pilocarpine increased the pineal metabolic production of hydroxyindole derivatives up to 5-hydroxytryptamine and produced a less marked stimulation of melatonin biosynthesis . 3 . electrical field stimulation of pineal gland slices caused similar metabolic effects . 4 . muscarinic blockade with atropine inhibited the effects on hydroxyindole metabolism . 5 . [ 3h ] quinuclidinyl benzylate-binding sites , indicative of muscarinic receptors , were more numerous , and basal 5-hydroxytryptamine and melatonin levels were higher , in the pineal gland of spontaneously hypertensive rats compared with wistar-kyoto rats . 6 . the atropine-sensitive metabolic effects of pilocarpine and electrical field stimulation on the pineal gland were increased in spontaneously hypertensive rats compared with wistar-kyoto rats . 
evidence for abnormal na + / h + antiport activity detected by phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy in exercising skeletal muscle of patients with essential hypertension . 1 . exercise-induced ph changes in skeletal muscle were studied in a group of eight subjects with essential hypertension by using 31p n.m.r. spectroscopy . 2 . leucocyte na + / h + antiport activity was measured in vitro in the same subjects using a ph-sensitive fluorescent dye . 3 . resting skeletal muscle ph and unstimulated leucocyte ph values were similar to those in control subjects , but increased na + / h + antiport activity was demonstrated in the leucocytes from hypertensive subjects by acid loading in vitro . decreased skeletal muscle acidification and an increased rate of ph recovery was also demonstrated in vivo in these same patients during an acid load induced by isotonic exercise . 4 . these findings suggest that the increased cellular na + / h + antiport activity , which has been demonstrated in vitro in essential hypertension , also affects the biochemical response of skeletal muscle to physiological levels of exercise . this strengthens the argument that increased na + / h + antiport activity in hypertension is a generalized and physiologically relevant cellular abnormality . 
stimulation of active renin release in normal and hypertensive pregnancy . 1 . active plasma renin concentration but not total renin concentration is reduced in women with pregnancy-induced hypertension compared with normotensive pregnant women . this study was conducted to determine whether women with pregnancy-induced hypertension are able to stimulate release of active renin . 2 . active plasma renin concentration was measured as the generation of angiotensin i at physiological ph in the presence of excess renin substrate , and total renin concentration was determined in the same way after trypsin activation . inactive plasma renin concentration was calculated as the difference between total renin and active plasma renin concentrations . 3 . resting active plasma renin concentration was significantly greater in third-trimester primigravidae compared with normotensive non-pregnant women and active plasma renin and total renin concentrations rose significantly without a fall in inactive plasma renin concentration in both groups after 2 h ambulation , suggesting increased release of active plasma renin and not conversion of circulating inactive to active renin . these responses were blunted in women taking oral contraceptives . 4 . although the active plasma renin concentration was significantly reduced in third-trimester primigravidae with pregnancy-induced hypertension , total renin concentration was not significantly different compared with normotensive women of similar gestation and in both groups 30 min 60 degrees head-up tilt increased active but not inactive plasma renin concentration . 5 . these studies show that in normal pregnancy active plasma renin concentration can be stimulated to a similar extent as in non-pregnant women , despite a higher resting level . this appears to be due to increased secretion of active plasma renin rather than conversion of circulating inactive to active renin . 
vascular hypertrophy , renin and blood pressure in the young spontaneously hypertensive rat . 1 . cardiovascular reactivity , blood vessel morphology , blood pressure and the activity of the renin-angiotensin system were determined in the 3-week-old spontaneously hypertensive ( shr ) , wistar-kyoto ( wky ) and outbred wistar ( wis ) rat . 2 . in an isolated perfused mesenteric artery preparation the shr had a significantly increased maximum response to kcl and noradrenaline ( p less than 0.02 ) compared with the wky . using a myograph , vascular structure was measured over a range of resistance arteries and showed a significant correlation between lumen diameter and both media cross-sectional area and thickness , with the regression line for the shr shifted upwards indicating both increased media area and thickness . this was associated with a slight , but significant , narrowing of the lumen ( p less than 0.01 ) and an increased media/lumen ratio ( 0.049 + / - 0.01 , 0.034 + / - 0.007 , 0.036 + / - 0.008 for shr , wky and wis , respectively , means + / - sd p less than 0.001 ) . the shr had a greater heart/body weight ratio than either the wky or the wis ( p less than 0.001 ) . 3 . both mesenteric artery and membrane protein content were higher in the shr , indicating an increase in cell size or number . 4 . plasma renin activity ( means + / - sd ) was lower in the shr ( 1.0 + / - 0.7 pmol of angiotensin i h-1 ml-1 ) than in the wky ( 2.2 + / - 1.2 pmol of angiotensin i h-1 ml-1 , p less than 0.001 ) but not different from that in the wis ( 1.2 + / - 0.8 pmol of angiotensin i h-1 ml-1 ) . mesenteric artery vascular renin concentration was also lower in the shr ( p = 0.06 ) . 
symptomatic pericardial effusion in breast cancer patients : the role of fluid cytology . clinical and cytologic findings in 21 breast cancer patients with symptomatic pericardial effusion are presented . the etiology of the pericardial effusion was definitely malignant , by cytology/histology in 13 patients ( 62 % ) , and suspected malignant by cytology in 2 patients ( 9 % ) . one patient ( 5 % ) with definitely nonmalignant pericardial effusion by cytology was found to be histologically positive at autopsy . in 5 patients ( 24 % ) there was no histological/cytological evidence of malignancy ; radiation pericarditis could be the etiology in 4 of these 5 patients . the median time from the diagnosis of breast cancer to the development of symptomatic pericardial effusion was 60 months ( range : 1-219 months ) . ten patients developed cardiac tamponade ; they were treated by either pericardiocentesis or pericardiectomy . the mean survival of patients with negative cytology/histology was 12 months ; patients with suspicious cytology had a mean survival of 9 months ; patients with malignant effusion , treated by pericardiectomy , had a mean survival of 22.3 months , while patients with malignant pericardial effusion , who were not subjected to surgery , had a mean survival of 4.7 months , only . it is concluded that the etiology of symptomatic pericardial effusion in breast cancer patients is not always malignant , which emphasizes the role of fluid cytology in establishing definite diagnosis . the survival probability is a function of the extent of extracardiac disease ; among patients with malignant pericardial effusion those selected for pericardiectomy have a longer than average survival . 
central retinal vein obstruction and axial length . the axial lengths of 24 consecutive adult eyes with unilateral central retinal vein obstruction ( crvo ) were compared with those of contralateral unaffected eyes and those of a control population . the lengths of the two eyes of persons with a unilateral crvo were not significantly different . by contrast , eyes of persons with crvo averaged 0.67 mm ( approximately 2 diopters ) shorter than their control counterparts ( p = .03 ) . this anatomic difference may be a factor in the development of crvo . 
delayed detection of coarctation in infancy : implications for timing of newborn follow-up . during a recent 5-year period , 74 patients younger than 6 months of age were diagnosed with coarctation of the aorta . coarctation was correctly diagnosed in only 22 % of patients prior to referral despite readily apparent femoral pulse abnormalities in 86 % . infants whose symptoms were detected between 5 and 14 days of age were significantly more ill than infants outside this age range and had a high mortality rate ( 25 % ) . the number of associated cardiac defects was not related to the severity of clinical illness in this group , suggesting that closure of the ductus arteriosus is the primary determinate of disease severity . observations in two patients suggested that a detectable pulse discrepancy occurs between 3 and 5 days postnatally . upper extremity hypertension was found commonly in infants after 5 days of age despite the presence of congestive heart failure . earlier detection of coarctation in the newborn requires a diligent cardiovascular and peripheral pulse examination between 3 and 7 days of life , upper extremity and lower extremity blood pressure measurement , and a high index of suspicion . 
response to diet and cholestyramine in a patient with sitosterolemia . in this report , an 11-year-old boy with diffuse tendinous and tuberous xanthomatosis and a plasma sterol concentration of 555 mg/dl , consisting primarily of cholesterol , is described . three months after changing from an unrestricted diet to a cholesterol-lowering diet , his plasma sterol concentration decreased to 221 mg/dl . because of the degree and rapidity of his response to diet , sitosterolemia was suspected . according to results of capillary gas-liquid chromatography of his plasma sterols , there was a sitosterol concentration of 31.3 mg/dl ( normal less than 1.0 mg/dl ) , establishing the diagnosis of sitosterolemia . addition of cholestyramine therapy ( 8 g/d ) to a low sterol diet further lowered his plasma sterol concentration to 173 mg/dl and led to complete regression of all tuberous xanthomata . tendinous xanthomata regressed at a slower rate . these findings show that the diagnosis of sitosterolemia should be suspected in severely hypercholesterolemic children ( total cholesterol greater than 400 mg/dl ) whose plasma cholesterol level is highly responsive to dietary manipulation . the rapid and sustained lowering of plasma cholesterol and regression of xanthomata after treatment with diet and cholestyramine suggest that sitosterolemia is a treatable cause of premature atherosclerosis . 
femorofemoral bypass : a profile of graft failure . we have reviewed our experience with 71 patients who had a femorofemoral bypass for unilateral iliac artery occlusion or stenosis . we analyzed morbidity , mortality , initial relief of symptoms , early patency , and long-term primary and secondary patency ; and we attempted to identify the cause of graft failure . the overall hospital mortality after operative repair was 4 % . one-year survival was 84 % and 2-year survival was 81 % . early patency was 98.5 % at 1 month , late patency was 91 % at 1 year and 82 % at 5 years . the major cause of graft failure was inadequate run-off and outflow disease progression . 
deep femoral to anterior tibial bypass after failed femoropopliteal reconstructions . deep femoral to anterior tibial artery bypass is a reconstructive technique occasionally applicable when more conventional attempts at revascularization of the distal portion of the leg have failed . three such patients , in whom the anterior tibial was the only distal patent branch of the popliteal artery , had severe symptoms of arterial insufficiency . deep femoral to anterior tibial bypass was done using autogenous the distal portion of the deep femoral artery was exposed through an anteromedial distal thigh approach . the three patients have been followed up for a mean of 20.3 months , and each maintains graft patency and marked symptomatic improvement . 
angiodysplasia : characterization , diagnosis , and advances in treatment . gastrointestinal bleeding accounts for 2 % of all adult hospital admissions each year . angiodysplasia is one of the most frequently reported causes of lower gastrointestinal bleeding . in 80 % of patients with bleeding angiodysplasia , the bleeding will stop spontaneously , but will often recur . although angiography may detect bleeding in 86 % of actively bleeding patients , the bleeding rate must be at least 0.5 ml/min . the treatment of choice for control of bleeding has been resection of the suspected segment of bowel , but this procedure is associated with a 10 % rebleeding rate and 7 % to 8 % mortality . superselective catheterization with infusion of vasoconstrictors has been used to control bleeding , but effects are short-lived . superselective embolization occludes an offending vessel , but is difficult to perform accurately and is associated with risk of infarction . laser photocoagulation controls bleeding in 84 % of patients , with a 6 % complication rate . this method of controlling bleeding offers distinct advantages , especially for the hemodynamically unstable patient . except for cases in which surgical resection is indicated , nd : yag laser photocoagulation is the safest , least invasive , and probably most effective means of treating angiodysplasia . 
apical hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in a non-oriental man . japanese investigators first described apical hcm in 2.9 % of patients who had diagnostic left ventricular catheterization for suspected ischemic heart disease or cardiomyopathy . this entity was initially thought to be limited to individuals of asian origin and has been uncommonly described in patients of western origin . patients of western origin differ in several ways from those in the original description of yamaguchi et al , but they both share the same classic criterion of hypertrophy of the left ventricular apex . the major differences probably relate to the anatomic variation in the distribution of the left ventricular hypertrophy as described by maron et al . it is not known whether racial , genetic , or environmental factors account for the variation of disease expression in asian and western patients . our case illustrates that this diagnosis should be considered in patients who have chest pain ( anginal or atypical ) and markedly abnormal findings on electrocardiograms in the absence of hypertension or significant coronary artery disease . 
pheochromocytoma and acute myocardial infarction . when a pheochromocytoma is manifested as an acute myocardial illness , diagnosis may be difficult to make . if the tumor is suspected early enough , a workup can be done while the complications of the myocardial illness are being controlled ( as in our case ) . the tumor can then be expeditiously removed before any further problems develop . the case presented here underscores the importance of maintaining a high index of suspicion for a pheochromocytoma in any patient who has an unexpected myocardial event . 
cerebrospinal fluid endothelin-1 and endothelin-3 levels in normal and neurosurgical patients : a clinical study and literature review . endothelins are a family of structurally related , potent , long-lasting vasoconstrictor peptides . there are no established normal human levels of endothelin-1 or endothelin-3 in the cerebrospinal fluid . we measured cerebrospinal fluid endothelin-1 and endothelin-3 levels in five groups of patients : normal controls , patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage and cerebral vasospasm , patients with severe head injuries , patients undergoing temporal lobectomy for intractable epilepsy , and a patient with a gunshot injury to the thoracic spine . endothelin-3 levels were significantly elevated in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage and may participate in cerebral vasospasm and subsequent neurologic deterioration . 
multiple arterial fenestrations , multiple aneurysms , and an arteriovenous malformation in a patient with subarachnoid hemorrhage . we report the case of a 49-year-old , right-handed man with multiple vascular pathologies , including a fenestrated anterior communicating artery and middle cerebral artery , an aneurysm of the anterior communicating artery , multiple aneurysms of the middle cerebral artery , and an arteriovenous malformation . diagnoses were made through computed tomography , cerebral angiography , magnetic resonance imaging , and intraoperative dissection . the lesions were managed surgically in stages with satisfactory results . congenital and hemodynamic factors may have combined to manifest in the anomalies present in this unique case . we believe that no similar combination of vascular pathology has been reported previously . 
changes in myocardial ischemic threshold during daily activities . this study assesses the variations in myocardial ischemic threshold ( heart rate at the onset of ischemia ) during daily activities in patients with ischemic episodes on holter monitoring . eighty patients with known coronary artery disease , positive treadmill stress test results and greater than or equal to 2 ischemic episodes during a 24-hour period of holter monitoring were studied . the lowest and the highest ischemic thresholds were determined for each patient . the mean lowest ischemic threshold was 85 beats/min , and the mean highest ischemic threshold was 109 beats/min . the highest ischemic threshold was identical to ischemic threshold values noted during exercise . of the 895 ischemic episodes , 654 ( 74 % ) were preceded by a moderate ( greater than 10 % ) increase in heart rate . the variability of ischemic threshold ( difference in percentage between the highest and lowest ischemic thresholds ) increased with the number of ischemic episodes ( range 2 to 60 % ) . however , in different patients with a similar number of ischemic episodes , different variability was observed . these differences in ischemic thresholds are probably indirect indicators of the vasomotor activity of the coronary arteries in different patients . 
determinants and significance of diltiazem plasma concentrations after acute myocardial infarction . the multicenter diltiazem postinfarction trial research group . a total of 1,975 plasma diltiazem concentrations were obtained from 1,067 patients enrolled in a multicenter secondary intervention study of diltiazem after acute myocardial infarction . to evaluate the determinants and significance of diltiazem concentrations in this patient population , we related drug concentrations to a variety of clinical variables recorded on the case history forms . multiple linear regression analysis showed that ( 1 ) time from the last drug dose , ( 2 ) drug dose taken , ( 3 ) patient height ( an index of lean body weight ) , and ( 4 ) patient age were important determinants of plasma concentration . for an equivalent dose , plasma diltiazem concentrations in a 75-year-old patient were about double those of a 25-year-old patient . total weight and drug dose prescribed did not significantly affect plasma concentrations . whereas drug concentrations were higher ( p = 0.01 ) among patients with left-sided heart failure , they were not altered by renal dysfunction , hepatic disease or beta blockers . diltiazem concentrations were a significant determinant of diastolic arterial pressure ( p less than 10 ( -9 ) , but neither systolic pressure nor heart rate were significantly related to diltiazem concentration . the overall incidence of adverse experiences was not related to drug concentrations , but the occurrence of second - and third-degree atrioventricular block in the coronary care unit and the need for a temporary pacemaker were substantially higher among patients with a drug concentration greater than 150 ng/ml ( 7.4 and 1.9 % , respectively ) than among patients with lower concentrations ( 2.6 % for atrioventricular block , 0.3 % for pacemaker ; p = 0.02 for each ) . the risk of atrioventricular block was particularly increased by high diltiazem concentrations in the face of acute inferior infarction . these results suggest that diltiazem 's pharmacologic and clinical effects in a large population are concentration-related , and that the consideration of patient size , age , and left ventricular function in selecting a diltiazem dose may allow for effective drug therapy with a reduced likelihood of adverse effects . 
prehospital thrombolysis in acute myocardial infarction . the benefit and risk of prehospital thrombolysis for acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) were evaluated in a double-blind randomized trial . patients presenting less than 4 hours after symptom onset received 2 million units of urokinase as an intravenous bolus either before ( group a , n = 40 ) or after ( group b , n = 38 ) hospital admission . the mean time interval from onset of symptoms to thrombolytic therapy was 85 + / - 51 minutes in group a and 137 + / - 50 minutes in group b ( p less than 0.0005 ) . in 91 % of the patients , thrombolytic therapy was administered less than 3 hours after symptom onset . complication rates during the pre - and in-hospital period were low and did not differ between groups . three patients died ( 1 in group a , 2 in group b ) from reinfarction 7 to 14 days after admission . left-sided cardiac catheterization before discharge revealed a patency rate in the infarct-related artery of 61 % in group a and 67 % in group b ( difference not significant ) . global left ventricular function and regional wall motion at the infarct site did not differ significantly between group a and b ( ejection fraction 51 + / - 10 % , n = 28 vs 53 + / - 14 % , n = 28 ; wall motion -2.3 + / - 1.3 vs -2.2 + / - 1.1 standard deviation , respectively ) . also , peak creatine kinase did not differ significantly ( 838 + / - 634 u/liter in group a vs 924 + / - 595 u/liter in group b ) . prehospital thrombolysis using a bolus injection of urokinase has a low risk when performed by a trained physician with a mobile care unit . the saving of 45 minutes in the early stage of an acute infarction through prehospital thrombolysis did not appear to be important for salvage of myocardial function . 
acute myocardial infarction and chest pain syndromes after cocaine use . seventy patients hospitalized with chest pain after cocaine use were retrospectively evaluated to define the risk and clinical course of acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) . ami developed in 22 patients ( 31 % ) and transient myocardial ischemia was seen in an additional 9 patients ( 13 % ) . coronary risk factors did not distinguish those who developed ami from those who did not . the presenting electrocardiogram was abnormal in 20 of 22 patients who evolved ami and in 19 of 48 of those who did not . creatine kinase levels were elevated in 75 % of the patients , including 65 % of those who did not develop ami , but creatine kinase-mb elevations were only observed in the ami group . the route of cocaine administration did not predict ami and there was no predilection for a particular coronary vascular bed . the length of time between drug use and onset of ami pain was often quite prolonged ( median interval , 18 vs 1 hour in the non-ami group ) . eight of the patients with ami underwent cardiac catheterization and 4 had significant coronary narrowing . 
comparison of thallium-201 and technetium-99m hexakis 2-methoxyisobutyl isonitrile single-photon emission computed tomography for estimating the extent of myocardial ischemia and infarction in coronary artery disease . single-photon emission computed tomography ( spect ) using thallium-201 ( tl-201 ) was compared with technetium-99m hexakis 2-methoxyisobutyl isonitrile ( tc-99m mibi ) in 24 patients with coronary artery diseaes . patients exercised to the same work load as each isotope was studied . normal and hypoperfused left ventricular mass was determined with an automated method . estimated total left ventricular mass was similar for both stress/redistribution tl-201 and stress/rest tc-99m mibi images . the mean estimated defect size in the redistribution tl-201 images was 32 + / - 34.7 vs 33 + / - 38.4 g in the resting tc-99m mibi studies ( difference not significant ) . the individual determinations of defect mass were highly correlated ( r = 0.93 ; p less than 0.0001 ) . estimated defect size in the stress tl-201 images ( 52 + / - 46.2 g ) was significantly larger than the exercise tc-99m mibi estimates of defect mass ( 42 + / - 39.9 g ; p less than 0.05 ) . a linear correlation existed between stress thallium and technetium estimates of defect size ( r = 0.85 ) but 15 of 24 tc-99m mibi defects were smaller than the tl-201 defects . partial redistribution of tc-99m mibi could explain the discordance . stress tc-99m mibi spect defect size determined by visual interpretation or by the use of isocount analysis may be smaller than what is seen with stress tl-201 spect . 
recanalization of chronic total coronary arterial occlusions by percutaneous excimer-laser and laser-assisted angioplasty . a low primary success and high restenosis rate after recanalization of chronic total occlusions by conventional coronary angioplasty have encouraged the application of new interventional techniques like excimer-laser angioplasty . in 39 patients with a coronary occlusion for 1 to 12 months , recanalization was attempted by laser angioplasty through a multifiber-catheter coupled to a pulsed xecl excimer laser . after successful passage of the occlusion by a standard guidewire in 27 patients ( 69 % ) , the laser catheter was advanced over the central guidewire and crossed the occlusion in 25 patients ( 64 % ) . in 2 patients with unsuccessful passage of the laser catheter , the subsequent attempt with a low profile balloon catheter also failed . in 19 of the 25 patients with successful laser recanalization , the residual stenosis exceeded 50 % and was therefore followed by additional balloon angioplasty . the average residual stenosis after laser was 61 + / - 17 % of the vessel diameter , and after balloon angioplasty 28 + / - 9 % ( n = 19 ) , whereas after laser angioplasty alone it was 38 + / - 5 % ( n = 6 ) . no complications associated with the laser application were observed . angiographic control after 24 hours showed a reocclusion of 2 ( 8 % ) recanalized vessels . in this pilot study , laser angioplasty proved to be a safe and feasible method for the treatment of chronic total coronary occlusions . because it was necessary to guide the catheter by a central wire , the primary success was limited by a successful passage of the wire of the occlusion . the rate of stand-alone laser angioplasty has to be increased by future improvements of the technique to enable a comparative evaluation of this method with conventional angioplasty . 
temporal relation between left ventricular dysfunction and chest pain in coronary artery disease during activities of daily living . forty-three ambulatory patients with angina of increasing frequency underwent continuous monitoring of left ventricular ( lv ) function for an average of 2.9 + / - 1.9 hours to determine the incidence and temporal sequence of lv dysfunction , st-segment depression and chest pain . indicators of ischemia were : a decrease in ejection fraction greater than 5 % lasting greater than 1 minute ; horizontal or downsloping st-segment depression of greater than or equal to 1 mm ; or onset of the patient 's typical chest pain complex , or a combination of these . during the monitoring interval , subjects performed daily activities such as sitting , walking , climbing stairs and eating . in 11 patients , 22 episodes of chest pain or st-segment depression , or both , were observed . eighteen episodes were accompanied by a decrease in ejection fraction ( 9 patients ) ; chest pain accompanied the decrease in ejection fraction during 13 episodes , whereas st-segment changes occurred during 7 . in 12 of 13 episodes the decrease in ejection fraction began earlier than the onset of chest pain , whereas in 1 patient ejection fraction decrease and chest pain onset started at the same time . the average interval from a decrease in ejection fraction to the onset of chest pain was 56 + / - 41 seconds ( range 0 to 120 ) . st changes occurred after the onset of a decrease in ejection fraction in 6 of 7 episodes . the average interval from the onset of ejection fraction decrease and the onset of st change was 99 + / - 91 seconds . these data suggest that lv dysfunction manifested by a decrease in ejection fraction is an earlier indicator of myocardial ischemia than is angina pectoris or electrocardiographic evidence of ischemia . 
recanalization of chronic , totally occluded coronary arteries by new angioplasty systems . the benefit and safety of new angioplasty equipment as compared with the conventional guidewire approach was evaluated in 154 consecutive patients . with chronic , totally occluded coronary arteries . the protocol followed a stepwise design : first , conventional guidewires and low-profile balloons were used , followed by " balloon-on-the-wire " systems ( probe , ace ) or by a shaft-enforced , tip-deflecting catheter ( omniflex ) . in 97 patients with occlusions of 2 to 12 weeks ' duration , recanalization was achieved in 51 patients ( 53 % ) with the conventional approach and in 29 patients with the new devices ( balloon-on-the-wire [ n = 5 ] , omniflex [ n = 24 ] ) , thereby raising the success rate to 82 % . in 57 occlusions of greater than 12 weeks ' duration , the recanalization attempt was successful in 58 % , mediated in 16 patients ( 28 % ) by the omniflex catheter and in 5 patients by balloon-on-the-wire systems . there were no life-threatening complications and only 1 ( 0.6 % ) emergency bypass operation was necessary . new angioplasty devices are therefore of considerable value in the attempt to improve the results of coronary angioplasty in chronic total occlusions . 
arterial vasodilator effects of the dihydropyridine calcium antagonist amlodipine alone and in combination with verapamil in systemic hypertension . the arterial vasodilator properties of the dihydropyridine calcium antagonist amlodipine were compared with the effects of vascular muscle cyclic guanosine monophosphate production by sodium nitroprusside and with the effects of a combined infusion of amlodipine and the nondihydropyridine calcium antagonist verapamil in 8 untreated patients with primary hypertension . arterial vasodilation was assessed by measurement of changes of forearm blood flow by mercury in silastic strain-gauge plethysmography during brachial artery drug infusions . forearm blood flow increased during amlodipine infusions ( 0.4 to 45 micrograms/min/100 ml forearm tissue ) from 2.9 + / - 1.7 to a maximum of 23.6 + / - 7.6 ml/min/100 ml ( 687 % ) , while sodium nitroprusside caused an increase from 3.0 + / - 1.8 to 16.2 + / - 5.4 ml/min/100 ml ( 449 % ) , attesting to the importance of transmembrane calcium influx for the maintenance of vascular tone . the addition of verapamil 40 micrograms/min/100 ml to an infusion of amlodipine 44.5 micrograms/min/100 ml resulted in a further increase of forearm blood flow , from 23.6 + / - 7.6 to 34.4 + / - 9.8 ml/min/100 ml ( p less than 0.05 ) . the precise mechanisms of this finding have yet to be elucidated but may be due to interactions of the effects of the binding of these 2 chemically and pharmacologically different calcium antagonists to distinct binding sites at calcium channels . the clinical relevance of this observation for the treatment of coronary artery disease and systemic hypertension needs further study . 
left ventricular filling impairment in asymptomatic chronic alcoholics . systolic left ventricular dysfunction is relatively common in even asymptomatic alcoholics , but whether diastolic function is also altered is much less well-studied . we used m-mode and doppler echocardiography to study left ventricular size , mass , systolic function and diastolic filling in 32 alcoholics free of clinically detectable heart disease and in 15 healthy control subjects . left ventricular mass index and posterior wall thickness were higher in alcoholics than in controls , but there was no statistically significant difference either in end-diastolic size or in systolic ventricular function . more abnormalities were found in the doppler indexes of diastolic function , however . the alcoholics had a prolonged relaxation time ( 200 + / - 6 vs 184 + / - 5 ms [ mean + / - standard error ] , p less than 0.05 ) , a decreased peak early diastolic velocity ( 52 + / - 2 vs 60 + / - 3 cm/s , p less than 0.05 ) , a slower acceleration of the early flow ( 410 + / - 18 vs 552 + / - 43 cm/s2 , p less than 0.01 ) , and a higher atrial-to-early peak velocity ratio ( 0.74 + / - 0.04 vs 0.60 + / - 0.05 , p less than 0.05 ) . this pattern of changes suggests a primary abnormality in the relaxation of the left ventricle . in multivariate analyses , the abnormalities in the doppler indexes were independent of the duration of alcoholism , the quantity of the most recent ethanol exposure and the increased mass of the left ventricle . impaired early filling of the left ventricle due to delayed relaxation is common in asymptomatic alcoholics and may in fact be the earliest functional sign of preclinical alcoholic cardiomyopathy . 
physiologic peripheral pulmonic stenosis in infancy . we studied 14 premature infants with the clinical diagnosis of peripheral pulmonic stenosis ( pps ) and 15 normal full-term neonates by echocardiographic doppler examinations . the pps group had an average main pulmonary artery ( pa ) diameter similar to the control group ( 0.91 vs 0.96 cm , difference not significant ) , but had smaller branch pa diameters : right pa = 0.41 vs 0.50 cm , p less than 0.001 , and left pa = 0.41 vs 0.49 cm , p less than 0.001 . the pps group also had greater peak velocities in the main pa ( 76 vs 63 cm/s , p less than 0.05 ) , right pa ( 193 vs 118 cm/s , p less than 0.001 ) and left pa ( 187 vs 123 cm/s , p less than 0.001 ) . similarly , the ratio of peak velocity in the branch/main pa was greater for the pps group : right/main pa peak velocity = 2.91 vs 1.92 , p less than 0.01 , and left/main pa peak velocity = 2.73 vs 1.99 , p less than 0.05 . the calculated right ventricular output for the pps group was more than the control group : 437 vs 261 ml/min/kg , p less than 0.001 . hematocrits were not done on the control group , but the pps group had an average hematocrit which was low ( 34 % ) . it is concluded that patients with pps have mild underdevelopment of the pa branches , with consequent increased flow velocity and turbulent flow . this turbulent flow may be contributed to by increased cardiac output and mild anemia . 
coronary arteries in truncus arteriosus . the origin and distribution of the coronary arteries was described in 39 autopsy specimens of truncus arteriosus ( ta ) . the specimens were classified according to the number and the patterns of the truncal cusps . the position of the truncal cusps was defined in relation to intracardiac structures , namely , the atrioventricular orifices . bicuspid truncal valves were observed in 8 cases ( 21 % ) , tricuspid in 22 cases ( 56 % ) and quadricuspid in 9 cases ( 23 % ) . all tricuspid valves had 2 anterior and 1 posterior cusp . great variability in the origin of the coronary arteries was observed , with a tendency for the right coronary artery to arise from the anterior right quadrant and for the left coronary artery to arise from the anterior and left quadrant . such a tendency was observed in 50 % of the bicuspid , in 59 % of the tricuspid and in 66 % of the quadricuspid valves . the anatomic right ventricle was always observed to be vascularized by a right coronary artery , and the anatomic left ventricle by a left coronary artery , even in cases in which there was a single coronary trunk . the anterior surface of the right ventricle was crossed by a right coronary artery in 5 cases . a single coronary artery was observed in 7 cases ( 18 % ) . embryologic considerations are offered , especially regarding the relation between the observed variability in coronary artery patterns in ta and the absence of the truncal septation . 
spectrum of hemodynamic changes in cardiac tamponade . to investigate the pathophysiology of cardiac tamponade , the hemodynamics of 77 consecutive patients with greater than 150 ml of pericardial effusion were studied . patients were classified into 3 groups based on the equilibration of intrapericardial with right atrial and pulmonary arterial wedge pressures ( mm hg ) : group i ( n = 16 ) , intrapericardial pressure was less than right atrial and pulmonary arterial wedge pressures ; group ii ( n = 13 ) , intrapericardial pressure was equilibrated with right atrial but not pulmonary arterial wedge pressures ; group iii ( n = 48 ) , intrapericardial pressure was equilibrated with right atrial and pulmonary arterial wedge pressures . pericardiocentesis produced the following changes : group i -- significant ( p less than 0.03 ) decreases in intrapericardial pressure ( 7 + / - 2 mm hg ) , right atrial pressure ( 3 + / - 2 mm hg ) , pulmonary arterial wedge pressure ( 2 + / - 2 mm hg ) , and the inspiratory decrease in arterial systolic pressure ( 3 + / - 4 mm hg ) but no significant change in cardiac output ; group ii -- significant ( p less than 0.02 ) decreases in intrapericardial pressure ( 11 + / - 5 mm hg ) , right atrial pressure ( 6 + / - 4 mm hg ) , pulmonary arterial wedge pressure ( 4 + / - 5 mm hg ) , and inspiratory decrease in arterial systolic pressure ( 8 + / - 7 mm hg ) , and increase in cardiac output ( 1.1 + / - 1.2 liters/min ) ; group iii -- significant ( p less than 0.001 ) decreases in intrapericardial pressure ( 16 + / - 7 mm hg ) , right atrial pressure ( 9 + / - 4 mm hg ) , pulmonary arterial wedge pressure ( 8 + / - 5 mm hg ) , inspiratory decrease in arterial systolic pressure ( 17 + / - 11 mm hg ) , and increase in cardiac output ( 2.8 + / - 1.5 liters/min ) . the changes after pericardiocentesis in all parameters were significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) greater in group iii than in groups i or ii except for the change in right atrial pressure , which was not significantly different in groups ii versus iii . the changes after pericardiocentesis indicate pericardial effusion caused the greatest abnormalities in group iii but also caused significant abnormalities of pressure and flow in group ii and of pressure alone in group i. 
transesophageal echocardiography in critically ill patients . the feasibility , safety and clinical impact of transesophageal echocardiography were evaluated in 51 critically ill intensive care unit patients ( 28 men and 23 women ; mean age 63 years ) in whom transthoracic echocardiography was inadequate . at the time of transesophageal echocardiography , 30 patients ( 59 % ) were being mechanically ventilated . transesophageal echocardiography was performed without significant complications in 49 patients ( 96 % ) , and 2 patients with heart failure had worsening of hemodynamic and respiratory difficulties after insertion of the transesophageal probe . the most frequent indication , in 25 patients ( 49 % ) , was unexplained hemodynamic instability . other indications included evaluation of mitral regurgitation severity , prosthetic valvular dysfunction , endocarditis , aortic dissection and potential donor heart . in 30 patients ( 59 % ) , transesophageal echocardiography identified cardiovascular problems that could not be clearly diagnosed by transthoracic echocardiography . in the remaining patients , transesophageal echocardiography permitted confident exclusion of suspected abnormalities because of its superior imaging qualities . cardiac surgery was prompted by transesophageal echocardiographic findings in 12 patients ( 24 % ) and these findings were confirmed at operation in all . therefore , transesophageal echocardiography can be safely performed and has a definite role in the diagnosis and expeditious management of critically ill cardiovascular patients . 
major depression , panic disorder , and mitral valve prolapse in patients who complain of chest pain . purpose : patients with chest pain but without angiographic evidence of significant atherosclerotic coronary artery disease ( cad ) are often found to have other medical or psychiatric disorders , including mitral valve prolapse , panic disorder ( pd ) , and major depressive disorder ( mdd ) . the purpose of this study was to determine the degree of comorbidity between mdd/pd and mitral valve prolapse in a group of patients with non-cad chest pain . patients and methods : patients referred for cardiac catheterization and coronary angiography for suspected cad who were 70 years of age or younger and without other significant medical illnesses or cardiac complications were eligible for study . the first 100 patients who agreed to a psychiatric diagnostic interview were recruited . results : forty-eight of the 100 patients were found to be without significant cad . forty-two percent of these patients , compared to 19 % of the patients with significant cad , were found to have either mdd , pd , or both . eighty percent of the patients without cad who had mitral valve prolapse also had either mdd or pd ( p less than 0.006 ) . conclusions : the finding that mitral valve prolapse was significantly associated with mdd/pd has implications for the diagnosis and treatment of patients with non-cad chest pain , and may explain why these patients complain of symptoms . 
cigarette smoking , adiposity , non-insulin-dependent diabetes , and coronary heart disease in japanese-american men . purpose : coronary heart disease has been described to be increased with both glucose intolerance and cigarette smoking . all three of these have also been reported to be associated with central adiposity ( disproportionate deposition of fat on the trunk compared to the extremities ) . the purpose of this analysis was to determine the relationship of cigarette smoking to glucose intolerance and coronary heart disease , the relationship of cigarette smoking to risk factors such as adiposity , body fat distribution , and plasma lipoprotein and insulin levels , the relationship of cigarette smoking to these risk factors independent of disease status , and whether these risk factors could account for any of the relationship between cigarette smoking and disease status . patients and methods : the study design was cross-sectional . the study sample contained 219 middle-aged and elderly japanese-american men : 77 with normal and 74 with impaired glucose tolerance and 68 with type ii diabetes . there were 54 men with coronary heart disease . a detailed smoking history was obtained . glucose tolerance status was established by medical history and a 75-g oral glucose tolerance test . coronary heart disease was determined by medical history and a resting electrocardiogram . adiposity and fat distribution measurements were body mass index ( kg/m2 ) , skinfold thicknesses , body circumferences , and cross-sectional fat areas by computed tomography . levels of insulin , c-peptide , cholesterol ( total , low-density lipoprotein [ ldl ] , high-density lipoprotein [ hdl ] , hdl2 , hdl3 , very-low-density lipoprotein [ vldl ] ) , and triglyceride ( total , vldl ) were measured in fasting blood specimens . results : a central pattern of body fat was associated with both non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and coronary heart disease . smoking history was related to both adiposity and body fat distribution , and was strongly related to coronary heart disease but not to diabetes . past smokers who had smoked up to a month ago were the heaviest while present smokers who were currently smoking or had smoked within the past month were the leanest . however , although present smokers had reduced amounts of fat , this was attributable to those present smokers without heart disease . present smokers with heart disease were not as lean and had increased amounts of intra-abdominal fat . past smokers had the greatest amount of central fat and this was attributable to those with heart disease . by two-way ( smoking history and coronary heart disease status ) analysis of covariance , smoking history was significantly related only to subcutaneous fat disposition on the chest and abdomen independent of coronary heart disease , while coronary heart disease status was strongly related to plasma levels of insulin c-peptide , vldl , hdl , hdl2 , and hdl3 cholesterol , and total and vldl triglyceride , independent of smoking history . further analysis showed that none of the body fat variables could account for the risk of coronary heart disease associated with smoking history . higher fasting plasma c-peptide levels in past smokers accounted statistically for part of the risk of coronary heart disease associated with cigarette smoking . however , this effect was not mediated by any of the body fat measurements . conclusions : disproportionately increased intra-abdominal fat is related to coronary heart disease but not to smoking history . smoking history is related to coronary heart disease but not to diabetes . weight gain is associated with smoking cessation and appears to be concentrated in the central subcutaneous regions , especially for those who have coronary heart disease . weight gain associated with cessation of smoking appears to be unrelated to atherogenic changes in lipids , lipoproteins , or insulin . other pathogenic processes must be considered in the association between smoking and coronary heart disease . 
aspirin in the primary prevention of angina pectoris in a randomized trial of united states physicians . purpose : the objective of this study was to examine the effect of low-dose aspirin ( 325 mg on alternate days ) on the primary prevention of angina pectoris in the united states physicians ' health study . despite a postulated role of platelets in atherogenesis and myocardial ischemia , the effect of chronic platelet inhibition on the development of clinical angina pectoris is unknown . subjects and methods : the physicians ' health study is a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial among 22,071 male physicians aged 40 to 84 years , free from previous myocardial infarction , stroke , and transient cerebral ischemia at entry , and followed for an average of 60.2 months . the 21,738 physicians who were also free from angina pectoris at baseline constituted the study population for the present analyses . results : during 106,652 person-years of follow-up , 331 patients with confirmed angina pectoris were diagnosed , 194 of whom underwent a coronary revascularization procedure ( coronary artery bypass graft surgery or coronary angioplasty ) . as compared to participants assigned placebo , the relative risk of confirmed angina pectoris in the aspirin group was 1.10 ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 0.88 to 1.38 ) . for coronary revascularization , the relative risk was 1.19 ( 95 % ci , 0.88 to 1.59 ) . after simultaneous control for other coronary risk factors in a proportional-hazards model , these relative risks remained near unity at 1.07 ( 95 % ci , 0.84 to 1.36 ) and 1.11 ( 95 % ci , 0.81 to 1.52 ) , respectively . when the risks of angina pectoris were examined according to year of randomization in the trial , there was no pattern of increasing benefit with longer duration of treatment . conclusion : these randomized trial data indicate that chronic platelet inhibition with low-dose aspirin for an average duration of 60.2 months does not reduce the incidence of angina pectoris . 
admission and mid-stay medisgroups scores as predictors of death within 30 days of hospital admission . we examined the ability of medisgroups , a severity measure based on clinical data abstracted from the medical record , to predict mortality 30 days following admission . medisgroups measures severity both on admission and approximately one week into the hospital stay . the data base was a random sample of 20,985 admissions of medicare beneficiaries with one of six conditions from 833 hospitals in seven states between january 1985 and may 1986 . in all six conditions , higher admission and mid-stay severity scores were generally associated with higher risk of death . across the six conditions , the r-squared values for predicting death using admission scores ranged from 0.01 to 0.16 ; r-squared values using mid-stay scores ranged from 0.03 to 0.34 ; and r-squared values from combining admission and mid-stay scores ranged from 0.05 to 0.41 . admission medisgroups score was thus only modestly predictive of 30-day mortality . while the mid-stay score was more powerful , it may not be an appropriate severity adjuster to screen for quality using hospital mortality rates because it could be influenced by substandard care . 
arterial abnormalities of the hand in athletes . vascular lesions of the hand may be seen in athletes exposed to repetitive blunt trauma . thirteen athletes seen from 1983 to 1988 experienced symptoms related to hand ischemia . nine were professional baseball catchers . the majority of patients complained of chronic symptoms , including cold hypersensitivity ( four patients ) , finger numbness ( one ) , finger coolness ( three ) , and finger blanching ( three ) . two patients had acute symptoms with sudden posttraumatic hand ischemia with finger and palmar pain . diagnosis was established by history and physical examination and confirmed by noninvasive testing . testing included use of doppler examination and cold tolerance examination with thermistors . two athletes required angiographic evaluation because of severe ischemia and continuous pain . all patients in this group were managed nonoperatively . those with chronic complaints were counseled regarding cold avoidance and instructed to increase their glove padding . the two patients with acute symptoms required vasodilator ( papaverine chloride ) infusion , followed by intravenous heparin and dextran . all baseball catchers returned to their sport with dissipation of symptoms . 
edgar j poth lecture . pathogenesis , diagnosis , and treatment of thrombosis . thrombosis and its major sequela , embolism , continue to contribute significantly to morbidity and mortality , both as primary disorders and as complications of other systemic systems . the understanding of the etiology of thromboembolism and the role of platelets , endothelium , and the plasma proteins in the development of thrombotic disorders has recently improved . other blood cells , in particular neutrophils , have been suggested as possible mediators of thrombosis in clinical disorders characterized by decreased capillary blood flow . newer imaging techniques such as duplex scanning have improved the accuracy and ease of diagnosis . thrombolytic therapy is a more physiologic approach to the management of thrombosis , but its role is limited by systemic fibrinolysis . the development of fibrin-specific agents and better delivery techniques in combination with thromboembolectomy and anticoagulation should improve the management of patients with thrombosis . 
the " all-autogenous " tissue policy for infrainguinal reconstruction questioned . in 33 % of patients referred for infrainguinal reconstruction for limb-threatening ischemia ( mean preoperative ankle-arm index [ aai ] = 0.26 ) , no suitable autogenous reconstruction was possible . in 40 % of cases , intraoperative pre-bypass contrast arteriography was necessary to identify a graftable tibial or pedal artery . the results of polytetrafluoroethylene ( ptfe ) and autogenous bypasses were compared after 1 to 3 years . after 1 year , patency was 85 % and 67 % for autogenous and ptfe bypasses , respectively . limb salvage was 90 % for autogenous bypass and 70 % for ptfe bypass . cumulative patency rates at 3 years were 80 % for autogenous and 57 % for ptfe grafts . graft surveillance with duplex scanning and aai was valuable in detecting failing grafts . for both types of reconstruction , secondary procedures were required to maintain patency . we attribute the excellent results with ptfe in part to long-term aspirin and warfarin therapy . in cases of combined superficial femoral and severe infra-popliteal occlusive disease , ptfe bypass is an excellent alternative when no autogenous conduit is available . 
in vitro and in vivo evaluation of intraluminal ultrasound in normal and atherosclerotic arteries . this study evaluated the dimensional and morphologic precision of arterial images obtained using intraluminal rotating a-scan ultrasound catheters [ 5.0 f ( 30 mhz ) and 8.0 f ( 20 mhz ) ] . dimensions of in vitro ultrasound images from human arteries ( eight normal and nine arteriosclerotic ) were compared with those from histologic sections of the vessels . in addition , in vivo ultrasound studies ( 23 normal and 22 arteriosclerotic ) of canine femoral arteries were compared with luminal dimensions obtained from angiograms of the vessels . the correlation of in vitro ultrasound images to luminal diameters ( n = 22 , r = 0.96 ) , adventitial diameters ( n = 19 , r = 0.83 ) , and wall thickness ( n = 19 , r = 0.68 ) in normal human vessels was significant ( p less than 0.05 ) . in vitro measurements of images and histologic specimens from human atherosclerotic arteries also correlated significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) with luminal diameters ( n = 27 , r = 0.91 ) , adventitial diameters ( n = 24 , r = 0.60 ) , and wall thickness ( n = 24 , r = 0.62 ) . morphologically , in vitro images of the wall of normal human arteries had a concentric laminated appearance and atherosclerotic vessels had patchy echodense and echolucent areas . in vivo studies showed significant correlation of diameters for both normal ( n = 16 , r = 0.91 , p less than 0.05 ) and arteriosclerotic ( n = 16 , r = 0.57 , p less than 0.05 ) canine arteries compared with luminal dimensions measured from uniplanar angiograms . we conclude that rotating a-scan intraluminal ultrasound accurately defines both normal and atherosclerotic arterial wall morphology and dimensions . this technology may be valuable for intravascular guidance of angioplasty devices by identifying the location and consistency of lesions . 
current status of duplex doppler ultrasound in the examination of the abdominal vasculature . duplex doppler ultrasound has come to play a central role in the diagnosis of a broad spectrum of vascular diseases such as carotid artery occlusive disease and deep vein thrombosis . the role of duplex doppler in the evaluation of intra-abdominal vascular disease remains unclear . this article summarizes the current status of duplex scanning in the investigation of the mesenteric arteries , the renal arteries , and the portal venous system . the examination is technically demanding , operator-dependent , time-consuming , and frequently unsatisfactory due to bowel gas , obesity , complex anatomy , or postoperative alterations in the normal anatomic patterns . its advantages reside primarily in the absence of toxicity and in the generation of physiologic as well as anatomic information . in centers with the proper instrumentation and a skilled technician , duplex examination can be useful in the diagnosis and management of abdominal vascular disease and avoids the inherent dangers of contrast angiography . 
stunned myocardium during extracorporeal membrane oxygenation . the " stunned myocardium " is a syndrome of reversible myocardial dysfunction that may be mediated by oxygen-derived free radicals . this phenomenon has been seen in some neonates undergoing extracorporeal membrane oxygenation . we performed echocardiograms and measured creatine phosphokinase isoenzymes and lipid peroxide levels in 16 neonates before , during , and after extracorporeal membrane oxygenation . infants who developed stunned myocardia by echocardiography did so shortly after initiation of bypass and exhibited concurrent elevations of the mb fraction of creatine phosphokinase . lipid peroxide levels did not simultaneously rise . these data suggest that oxygen-derived free radicals may not cause the stunned myocardium seen in neonates undergoing extracorporeal membrane oxygenation . 
life-threatening complications during anaesthesia in a patient with a ventriculo-atrial shunt and pulmonary hypertension [ published erratum appears in anaesthesia 1991 mar ; 46 ( 3 ) :241 ] a 6-year-old patient with hydrocephalus who underwent revision of a ventriculo-atrial shunt is described . anaesthesia was complicated by the occurrence of systemic hypertension and arterial hypoxaemia . the patient was subsequently found to have pulmonary hypertension secondary to recurrent pulmonary thromboembolism . the pathophysiological mechanisms for the patient 's deterioration are discussed and the anaesthetic management of children with pulmonary hypertension is outlined . it is concluded that patients with a ventriculo-atrial shunt who present for surgery should be screened carefully for the presence of pulmonary hypertension . 
embolism during caesarean section . we investigated the occurrence of gas embolism during caesarean section using a doppler ultrasound probe and found that it occurs between uterine incision and delivery . embolism is less common during general anaesthesia than has been reported during regional anaesthesia . both ruptured membranes and a protracted uterine incision to delivery interval predispose to embolism . 
isolated lung transplantation for pulmonary fibrosis . the peri-operative anaesthetic management of 11 patients with pulmonary fibrosis undergoing single-lung transplantation is presented . intra-operative problems , the early postoperative phase of recovery and intensive care , and other incidents in which general anaesthesia was required for the management of complications , are featured . results , both short - and long-term , are mentioned . major intra-operative events that cause concern appear to be related to the severity of the presenting illness and the development of respiratory failure . others have reported the development of intra-operative cardiac failure . all cases were successfully managed operatively using conventional one-lung anaesthesia , although resort to partial cardiopulmonary bypass may have been indicated in some . the indications and attitudes to utilising cardiopulmonary bypass in the evolution of techniques for facilitating single-lung transplantation are reviewed . 
circulating plasma platelet activating factor in persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn . platelet activating factor ( paf ) is an endogenous phospholipid mediator that causes pulmonary hypertension and thrombocytopenia in experimental animal models . to investigate circulating paf in persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn ( pphn ) , we studied paf and its degradative enzyme , acetylhydrolase . thirteen neonates with pphn , diagnosed by routine clinical methods including echocardiography , were compared to six age-matched control patients with respiratory distress . overall , plasma paf levels were elevated in patients with pphn compared to control patients ( 20.1 + / - 3.9 versus 1.6 + / - 0.7 ng/ml , p less than 0.01 ) . in addition , plasma paf concentrations in patients with pphn correlated with the severity of disease as defined by the delta aapo2 ( r = 0.65 , p = 0.015 ) . in three patients with elevated paf levels , as the clinical status improved , the plasma paf values decreased . acetylhydrolase activity was similar in both groups ( 3.96 + / - 0.90 versus 3.78 + / - 1.44 nmol/ml/min , p = ns ) . we conclude that paf production is increased in pphn and that abnormal production of paf may be associated with pulmonary hypertension . 
alpha 1-antichymotrypsin as a possible biochemical marker for alzheimer-type dementia . we measured serum alpha 1-antichymotrypsin levels in 38 patients with alzheimer-type dementia , 89 control subjects , 2 subjects with down 's syndrome , 20 with vascular dementia , 18 with parkinson 's disease , 14 with spinocerebellar degeneration , 15 with cerebrovascular disease without dementia , and 14 with duchenne muscular dystrophy . cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin were also measured in 15 patients with alzheimer-type dementia , 26 control subjects , 6 with vascular dementia , 7 with cerebrovascular disorder , and 11 with degenerative disorders . in control subjects , there were no age-related changes or sex differences . serum and csf levels were significantly and specifically higher in patients with alzheimer-type dementia than in other subjects ( serum , p less than 0.001 ; csf , p less than 0.05 ) . serum levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin were significantly elevated in the early stage of alzheimer-type dementia , whereas there was no definite correlation between serum levels and the degree of dementia . csf levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin tended to parallel the severity of dementia . serum levels were not correlated with csf levels . these data indicate that serum and csf levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin might be independently upregulated in alzheimer-type dementia . we concluded that the measurement of serum levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin could be useful as a screening marker for alzheimer-type dementia . in addition , csf levels also could be a useful marker for alzheimer-type dementia , because they might reflect the state of dementia . 
an analysis of outcome following percutaneous transluminal coronary artery angioplasty . an autopsy series . we analyzed autopsy findings on 26 patients who died following percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) . twenty-one patients died within 3 weeks of undergoing ptca ; demonstrable cardiac complications were found in 19 patients : platelet-fibrin thrombi ( 10 patients [ 48 % ] ) , coronary artery dissections ( 17 patients [ 81 % ] ) , thromboemboli ( 13 patients [ 62 % ] ) , atheroemboli ( seven patients [ 33 % ] ) , and myocardial infarcts ( 17 patients [ 81 % ] ) . an increased incidence of coronary platelet-fibrin thrombi was noted when compared with a non-ptca cardiac autopsy population ( five of 53 patients ) . apparently there was an increased incidence of coronary atheroemboli and thromboemboli in the patients with coronary platelet-fibrin thrombi ( eight patients ) when compared with patients who did not have platelet-fibrin thrombi ( five patients ) , although this was not statistically significant . there was no evidence of a systemic hypercoagulable state or of disseminated intravascular coagulation . the pathogenesis of this is unclear ; however , vasospasm and a disruption of the endothelial surface induced by ptca with subsequent platelet activation are possible causes . although not statistically significant , there was a proponderance of female subjects ( seven patients ) and an increased incidence of diabetes mellitus ( six patients ) and hypertension ( 13 patients ) when compared with a control population of all patients undergoing ptca at the cleveland ( ohio ) clinic foundation in 1987 , suggesting that diabetes mellitus , hypertension , and female sex may be clinical risk factors for fatal complications following ptca . 
overestimation of myocardial infarct size by histologic measurement in a model of occlusion followed by reperfusion . we studied 32 transverse left ventricular slices of myocardium from 16 pigs after 45 to 100 minutes of coronary artery occlusion followed by 180 minutes of reperfusion . infarct area for each slice was determined as follows : ( 1 ) grossly , by triphenyl tetrazolium chloride staining of each slice , and ( 2 ) microscopically , by complete histologic sectioning of the triphenyl tetrazolium chloride-stained surface of each slice . planimetry of necrotic and nonnecrotic areas was performed from tracings and photographs of triphenyl tetrazolium chloride-stained slices and from actual histologic sections . when triphenyl tetrazolium chloride and histologic measurements were compared , necrotic tissue area had decreased 11.4 % + / - 15.0 % ( 2.59 + / - 1.04 vs 2.09 + / - 0.86 cm2 ) . nonnecrotic tissue area decreased 20.6 % + / - 24.0 % ( 8.31 + / - 3.79 vs 5.16 + / - 2.73 cm2 ) . in this model of ischemia followed by reperfusion , with fixation and processing , viable tissue shrank almost twice as much as necrotic tissue . this differential shrinkage introduces an error resulting in overestimation of infarct size by histologic quantitation . 
pulmonary capillaritis and glomerulonephritis in an antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-positive patient with prior granulomatous aortitis . a 59-year-old man showed asynchronous development of noninfectious granulomatous aortitis with aneurysm , followed 9 months later by pulmonary capillaritis and glomerulonephritis in association with elevated serum antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody levels . to our knowledge , the combination of large artery vasculitis and small vessel systemic vasculitis ( capillaritis ) has not been previously reported . this case may represent a hybrid type of systemic vasculitis combining features of giant cell arteritis and wegener 's granulomatosis . 
disseminated conidiobolus infection with endocarditis in a cocaine abuser . a crack cocaine abuser developed disseminated infection caused by a species of conidiobolus not known to cause disease in vertebrates . the fungus gained entry via skin abrasions on the lower extremities , spread through the hematogenous route , and caused endocarditis . there was evidence of fungal infection in the lungs , heart , kidneys , skeletal muscles , and brain . an additional complication was extensive rhabdomyolysis , with a marked elevation of creatine kinase of up to 1.2 million u/l . 
cumulative aids incidence and altered mortality from bacterial infections . to determine whether populations with high cumulative incidence of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) experienced increased deaths from sepsis , central nervous system abscess , or endocarditis , new jersey aids patients were grouped according to their age , sex , race , and residence-specific cumulative incidence of aids since the onset of the aids epidemic . between 1980 and 1986 , among 25-44 year olds in the highest cumulative incidence group for aids , sepsis mortality increased from 3.3 to 15.2 deaths/100 ,000 / year , an increase of 11.9 deaths/100 ,000 / year ( 95 % confidence interval ( 6.9 , 17.0 ) deaths/100 ,000 / year ) ; mortality from central nervous system abscesses increased from zero to 1.7 ( 0.1 , 3.2 ) deaths/100 ,000 / year ; and mortality from endocarditis increased from 0.8 deaths/100 ,000 / year to 2.4 deaths/100 ,000 / year , an increase of 1.6 ( -0.5 , 3.7 ) deaths/100 ,000 / year . age-matched new jersey patient populations with low cumulative incidence of aids did not sustain a similar increase . the hiv disease-associated increase in sepsis mortality among young populations represents a new component of the substantial increase in u.s. sepsis mortality that occurred over the last two decades , but was previously limited to older populations . 
the real impact of mechanical bridge strategy in patients with severe acute infarction . results obtained in the past 3 years in patients referred with acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) and cardiogenic shock for a mechanical bridge to urgent transplantation permit one to assess the real impact of the present strategy in clinical practice . ten patients ( mean age = 49 ) were admitted in serious condition ( ci = 1.8 + / - 0.2 l/min/m2 , pcwp = 28 + / - 6 mmhg , systolic aortic pressure = 88 + / - 20 mmhg , urine output 11 + / - 20 ml/hr ) and were treated by maximal sympathomimetic support and i.v. enoximone . two had to be implanted with a total artificial heart ( tah ) and one with a left ventricular assist device ( lvad ) for recurrent fibrillation despite hemodynamic improvement , within 8 hr . two have received transplants and are living well after 20 months . seven who initially improved markedly have been listed as urgent transplant candidates : two of these have been successfully transplanted , and three died suddenly after 6 , 25 , and 45 days , respectively . one has undergone successful coronary surgery . one patient ( age 62 , diabetic ) was secondarily rejected for a transplant and died . this experience clearly shows that despite initial spectacular hemodynamic improvement , which was due to optimized medical management , death rate before transplant because of sudden ventricular fibrillation remains unacceptably high . this should prompt early mechanical support , with less invasive systems , in patients with ami . 
complement activation and use of a cell saver in cardiopulmonary bypass . complement activation was evaluated in ten patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass ( cpb ) and intraoperative blood salvage with a cell saver ( cs ) to assess the inflammatory response related to the cs . the washed red blood cell concentrate was reinfused after protamine injection . plasma c3a was measured by radioimmunoassay preoperatively , 5 min before cpb , at 5 , 60 , and 90 min during cpb , 5 min after protamine infusion , at the end of surgery , and after 24 hr . in addition , a clinical score based on renal , pulmonary , neurologic , and myocardial postoperative evolution was given ( 0-8 ) to every patient . results were compared with the c3a changes and clinical scores obtained from 26 routine ( no cs ) cardiac surgical patients . results showed maximal c3a generation after protamine and no further activation in cases of cs concentrate reinfusion , which ranged from 400 ml to 2,000 ml . no difference in clinical score was observed between the cs ( 1 + / - 1 ) and control ( 0.85 + / - 0.6 ) groups . the authors conclude that the cs does not enhance complement activation resulting from extracorporeal circulation and can be safely used as a blood saving strategy in cardiac surgery . 
differential light scattering cuvettes for the measurement of thromboemboli in high shear blood flow systems . newly developed optical scattering cuvettes were constructed as a modification of our existing 1.0 mm and 3.0 mm internal diameter ( id ) cuvettes to facilitate the measurement of platelet microemboli ranging from 20 microns to 1,000 microns diameter in whole blood in 0.9 mm id flows ranging from 250 to 4,000 ml/min . a perturbation solution to the one-speed radiative transport equation was used in the design and calibration of these cuvettes . a series of tests were performed with these cuvettes in an extracorporeal left ventricular assist device bovine model , and in a recirculating closed-loop flow system containing anticoagulated whole baboon blood , to determine to what extent they affect platelet and erythrocyte function ex vivo and in vitro . serial hemolysis tests , thromboxane radioimmunoassay measurements , platelet counts , and activated partial thromboplastin times were measured . all of these tests with cuvettes in the extracorporeal and in vitro circuits were statistically indistinguishable from baseline measurements , suggesting the usefulness of this system for the measurement of microemboli in blood-contacting materials of extracorporeal circuits and cardiac assist devices . 
effects of retrovenous myocardial drug delivery after coronary artery occlusion in sheep . retrovenous ( rv ) myocardial delivery of blood and drugs into the coronary sinus ( cs ) through a 3 lumen balloon catheter was evaluated in sheep ( no coronary collaterals ) for protection from ventricular fibrillation ( vf ) during coronary artery occlusion . the balloon was asynchronously inflated ( cs occlusion ) for 5 sec and then deflated for 5 sec with 1 cc/sec of flow . the left anterior descending coronary artery was occluded with inflation of a percutaneous transluminal coronary angiography balloon and therapy started immediately . in a control group ( no therapy , n = 4 ) all developed vf by 30 min after coronary artery occlusion . the drugs lidocaine ( l ) , esmolol ( e ) , adenosine ( a ) , and deferoxamine ( d ) were evaluated for effects on eliminating developing vf with intravenous ( i.v. ) administration compared with rv administration with venous blood ( vb ) or arterial blood ( ab ) . the percent survival after ca occlusion ( no vf ) was : l i.v. , 0 % ; l rv with vb , 43 % ; l rv with ab , 17 % ; e i.v. , 50 % ; e rv with vb , 70 % ; a. i.v. , 29 % ; a rv with vb , 88 % ; d i.v. , 17 % ; and d rv with ab , 80 % . there was a trend toward lower myocardial necrosis ( seen by tetrazolium stain and/or light microscopy ) in the rv survivors ( especially with vb ) compared with the group i.v. survivors . these data suggest that rv antiarrhythmic drug delivery is a feasible alternative to i.v. administration during ca occlusion . 
cardiac arrest after hypertonic citrate anticoagulation for chronic hemodialysis . the use of regional citrate anticoagulation as an alternative to standard therapy in hemodialysis patients at risk for bleeding complications has been well described . recently , a method using hypertonic citrate has been reported as being safe and efficacious , and having several advantages over the usual techniques . two patients who suffered cardiac arrests after dialysis using hypertonic citrate are discussed . both received anticoagulation as described in the literature , although the citrate infusion rate was lower than recommended . electrocardiograms obtained during the first such session showed no change in the q-tc interval with initiation of the infusion in either patient . both were noted to have cardiac arrest within 5 minutes of discontinuation of dialysis , without warning symptoms , following the second and fifteenth treatments , respectively . the initial rhythm of ventricular fibrillation did not respond to standard advanced cardiac life support therapy , and the patients were not successfully resuscitated until they received intravenous calcium . the authors postulate that the loss of positive calcium flux from the dialysate , in conjunction with circulating unmetabolized citrate , caused an electrolyte imbalance leading to the potentially fatal arrhythmia . caution is recommended in using this method of regional anticoagulation . 
design mediated thrombus reduction in the utah-100 total artificial heart . the utah-100 total artificial heart was initially designed and tested in 1983 . general design goals , including improved fit for human application , improved reliability , and elimination of thrombus formation , were identified as improvements over the clinically used jarvik-7 artificial heart , previously developed at the institute for biomedical engineering , university of utah . specific design goals included 1 ) elimination of connector and valve-associated thrombus formation and 2 ) elimination of gross mineralization , thrombus formation , and creases on the blood-pumping diaphragm of the device . explant retrieval results from 29 calves and sheep implanted with the jarvik-7 artificial heart were compared with results from 25 calves and sheep implanted with the utah-100 artificial heart . macroscopic thrombus formation was found in 44 % of the connectors of the jarvik-7 artificial-hearts , compared with 2 % ( p less than or equal to 0.01 ) in animals with the utah-100 artificial heart . subvalvular and supravalvular thrombi were observed in 33 % of the valves in the jarvik-7 artificial heart and 10 % ( p less than or equal to 0.01 ) of the valves in the utah-100 artificial heart . mineralization of the pumping diaphragm was observed in 12 % of the animals implanted with the jarvik-7 artificial heart and in 4 % of the animals with the utah-100 diaphragms . thrombus formation in the diaphragm-housing interface occurred in 2 % of jarvik-7 ventricles and in 6 % of the utah-100 ventricles . there were no identifiable diaphragm creases in the utah-100 diaphragms , but a 10 % incidence was found in jarvik-7 devices . these results validate substantial progress toward improved design and fabrication methods in the utah-100 total artificial heart . 
estimation of reynolds stresses within the penn state left ventricular assist device . fluid velocities were measured using a two-component laser doppler anemometery ( lda ) system at 129 locations within a plexiglas model of a 70 cm3 penn state electric left ventricular assist device ( lvad ) . the lvad was driven by a pulsatile piston pump acting on an attached segmented polyurethane diaphragm . bjork-shiley tilting disc valves were used to provide unidirectional flow through the inlet and outlet ports . a seeded blood analog fluid , which matched the kinematic viscosity of blood at high shear rates and the refractive index of plexiglas , was used to make the measurements . at each location , 250 instantaneous velocity realizations were collected at eight instances during the pump cycle . the maximum reynolds shear and normal stresses were calculated for each pump cycle time and location after filtering the data . the results reveal that the highest reynolds shear and normal stresses occur in the near wall region just proximal to the aortic valve during diastole , and reach values of 5,300 dynes/cm2 and 10,800 dynes/cm2 , respectively . the elevated turbulent stresses are observed during the period of regurgitant flow through the aortic valve , with peak stress values arising during the period of peak regurgitant flow . this supports the hypothesis that a regurgitant turbulent jet is formed near the wall of the prosthetic aortic valve and may be contributing to blood damage . 
low-dose heparinization can be used with deae-cellulose hemodialysis membranes . the ability of deae-cellulose ( hemophan ) membranes to bind heparin may reduce bioavailable heparin and predispose to dialyzer clotting , thus preventing use of hemophan with low-dose heparin . to examine this possibility , residual blood volumes were determined following 95 treatments with dialyzers containing hemophan membranes in 11 patients . no heparin was added to the saline used to prime the dialyzers . the anticoagulant effect of heparin was measured using recalcified activated clotting times ( ract ) . two heparin doses , calculated by a pharmacokinetic model to increase baseline ract by 12.5 % and 25 % , were used for each patient . the mean heparin loading doses were 10.2 + / - 2.8 and 15.3 + / - 2.2 iu/kg , respectively , and the mean infusion rates were 11.1 + / - 3.2 and 14.7 + / - 3.2 iu/kg/h , respectively . residual blood volumes were determined by red cell lysis and hemoglobinometry . in 88 treatments , residual blood volume averaged 1.6 + / - 1.5 ml . in the other seven treatments , residual blood volume greater than 10 ml was seen . in five of these cases , clotting appeared to propagate from the arterial drip chamber . residual blood volume did not correlate with the level of heparin . the data show that low-dose heparin can be used with hemophan membranes , and suggest that blood tubing design may be an important factor in blood circuit clotting during hemodialysis . 
in vivo rheologic effects of lipid apheresis techniques : comparison of dextran sulfate ldl adsorption and heparin induced ldl precipitation . the effects of two different ldl apheresis techniques , heparin-induced ldl precipitation ( help ) and dextran sulfate ldl adsorption ( dsa ) , were compared in six patients with familial hypercholesterolemia . total and ldl cholesterol were effectively lowered with both techniques . the reduction of serum triglycerides was more pronounced with dsa , whereas the reduction of hdl cholesterol was more pronounced with help . single sessions using both techniques immediately reduced whole blood and plasma viscosity , as well as erythrocyte aggregation . serum fibrinogen decreased by 62 % ( help ) and 11 % ( dsa ) . maintenance lipid apheresis administered 1 time per week resulted in a sustained reduction of total and ldl cholesterol and was associated with a sustained improvement in blood flow properties . data suggest that besides serum fibrinogen , serum lipoproteins may adversely effect the rheologic characteristics of blood . 
( a ) typical symptoms during single needle dialysis . in 5 elderly patients , an abnormally high occurrence of some symptoms was noted during dialysis . all patients were dialyzed with biocompatible membranes , bicarbonate dialysate , and a blood flow of 250 to 300 ml/min by a single needle system , on a fistula 14 gauge catheter-needle . these symptoms were : 1 ) " angina , " resistant to o2 and nitrates , with biochemical stigmata of infarction , but without electrocardiogram ( ecg ) localization ; 2 ) intractable persistent hypotension , not hypovolemic , lasting 1 or 2 days ; 3 ) esophagal spasms , with inability to swallow solid food . because we knew that these symptoms were compatible with hemolysis ( biochemically proven by the increase in serum ldh during dialysis and by a fall in haptoglobin ) due to red cell fragmentation ( rcf ) , we switched these patients from fistula dialysis ( a ) to central catheter dialysis ( b ) , with the same apperture , blood flow , etc . the total number of sessions of a versus b were 512 and 891 ; the mean ldh ratios ( serum ldh postdialysis divided by predialysis ) were 1.8 and 1.0 ( = no rcf ) ; angina events were 132 ( 26 % ) for a , and 25 ( 3 % ) for b ; persistent hypotension was seen 37 ( 7 % ) times in a and 5 ( 0.6 % ) times in b ; esophagal spasms were noted 65 ( 13 % ) times for a , and 0 times for b. this clinical improvement was so overwhelming that 3 patients refused to be dialyzed again using their well functioning fistulae . this study also proved the need for a better designed and manufactured peripheral dialysis catheter-needle . 
events following implantation of an intraluminal ringed prosthesis in the ascending , transverse , and descending thoracic aorta . from march 1978 through july 1985 , 23 patients underwent implantation of 24 intraluminal ringed prostheses ( irp ) . there were 18 men and 5 women , with a mean age of 54.7 years , range 15-74 years . eleven irp were placed in the ascending aorta , two in the transverse arch , and 11 in the descending aorta . pathology included acute aortic dissection in four patients , chronic dissection in four , and aortic aneurysm in 16 . there were eight hospital deaths ( 35 % ) . causes of death included acute cardiac failure in seven patients , and ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm in one . irp complications requiring revision included right coronary artery occlusion in three of 11 patients ( 27 % ) with an irp in the ascending aorta . graft revision was also required in three of 11 irp implanted in the descending aorta ( 27 % ) , due to graft occlusion in one and graft stenosis in two . of the six patients with irp complications , there were three hospital deaths ( 50 % ) . all 15 hospital survivors were followed for a mean of 68.5 months , range 5-112 months . there were four late deaths ( 26.7 % ) . causes of late death included hemoptysis in one , cardiomyopathy in one , and aortic redissection and rupture in two . we conclude that patients undergoing repair of aortic pathology with irp have an important risk of early phase events , as technical problems can occur due to malposition and slippage of the securing rings . 
in vitro and in vivo testing of a new valved intravascular catheter design . long-term intravascular catheterization carries a finite risk of catheter occlusion . a catheter tip valve design is presented ( buchwald-wigness , strato medical corporation , beverly , ma ) which incorporates features designed to decrease the risk of thromboembolism and reduce the need for maintenance procedures . aspiration and infusion are controlled by separate valves , making it possible to engineer optimized inlet and outlet parameters . the outlet valve is an elastic sleeve expanded around the sidewall outlet ports which opens under injection pressure . the inlet valve is a tubular elastic element compressed against the inlet port from within the lumen , opening under aspiration pressure . a series of valves were prototyped with outlet pressures ranging from 2 to 100 " h2o , and inlet pressures ranging from -40 -70 " h2o , and flowrates at 36 " h2o of greater than 1,400 ml/hr . dog implants of two prototypes with outlet valve pressures of 10 " h2o , and inlet pressures of -40 " h2o , demonstrated that dormant periods of up to 7.5 weeks could be achieved without detectable blood cell entry into the lumen . no significant hemolysis was observed in blood samples aspirated with a 6 cc syringe ( 8 % scored " slightly hemolyzed " vs. 44 % with the nonvalved controls ) indicating that a hemodialysis application is likely . 
in vitro and in vivo evaluation of a right ventricular assist device . a simple right ventricular assist device ( rvad ) has been developed . this device will be useful in situations where biventricular failure has been partially treated by placement of a left ventricular assist device , or when right ventricular failure occurs in isolation . this pneumatically actuated , r-wave synchronized , sac type pump contains no valves , and is connected by a graft to the pulmonary artery . the rvad was tested in a circulation simulator to verify its hemodynamic efficacy and then implanted in six calves for 2-4 weeks to evaluate its biocompatibility . in vitro testing of the rvad demonstrated that it restored normal hemodynamics in the presence of severe simulated rvf . in six animal implantations , a small amount of thrombus was found in one pump . no anticoagulants were employed . thrombus was present in the connecting graft in three animals ; in two this was clearly related to technical implant errors . no evidence of significant hemolysis was found . this simple rvad has been found to be hemodynamically effective , is simple to use , and is well tolerated . refinements in the interconnection graft between the pulmonary artery and the device are necessary . 
pulmonary artery counterpulsation with a skeletal muscle power source . we evaluated the feasibility of using skeletal muscle ( sm ) to provide pulmonary artery ( pa ) counterpulsation in an acute pulmonary hypertension ( pht ) model . pa counterpulsation was achieved in six dogs with a dual chambered pump powered by the latissimus dorsi muscle . a rate-responsive stimulator was used to make the muscle contract in counterpulsation . graded pht was induced by infusing 150 microns glass beads into the pa , while rv and pa pressures were monitored . with pa pressures ranging from 19/10 to 115/62 mmhg , effective counterpulsation was observed . the degree of counterpulsation was influenced by the extent of pht induced , with the amount of rv tension-time index ( tti ) unloading correlated with the level of pa systole ( r = 0.92 ) . therefore , results were divided into two groups ( group 1 : pa systole less than or equal to 40 mmhg , and group 2 : pa systole greater than 40 mmhg ) . in group 1 , rv tti decreased from 11.29 + / - 0.76 to 9.99 + / - 0.72 mmhg.sec , pa diastole increased from 20 + / - 2.3 to 31 + / - 3.0 mmhg , and pa mean increased from 24 + / - 2.2 to 2.9 + / - 2.2 mmhg ( all p less than 0.05 ) . in group 2 , rv tt1 decreased from 15.12 + / - 1.83 to 10.99 + / - 0.90 mmhg.sec , pa diastole increased from 41 + / - 3.5 to 64 + / - 6.2 mmhg , and pa mean increased from 49 + / - 4.8 to 55 + / - 5.7 mmhg ( all p less than 0.05 ) . 
novacor left ventricular assist filling and ejection in the presence of device complications . in order to better understand the relationship among certain device related complications and novacor left ventricular assist system ( lvas ) pumping parameters , a mock circulatory loop was utilized to simulate the following clinically realistic conditions : 1 ) inflow valve regurgitation , 2 ) inflow cannula obstruction , 3 ) outflow valve regurgitation , and 4 ) outflow cannula obstruction . various pumping parameters ( e.g. , pump rate , stroke volume , pump output ) were recorded at baseline ( control ) and during each simulation . additionally , pump volumes were continuously recorded and differentiated for calculation of rates of pump filling ( fr ) and ejection ( er ) . the results indicate that perfusion pressures and rates of filling and ejection change significantly in the presence of device complications . the implications of these findings , as relates to assessment of pump operation in lvas patients , are discussed . 
limitation of myocardial infarct size by a right ventricular assist device . to evaluate the effects of an rvad on myocardial ischemic injury during right coronary artery ( rca ) ligation , a pneumatically driven pusher plate pump was inserted between the right atrium and pulmonary artery , and the rca was ligated at its origin for two hr . there were 18 sheep , of which nine each served as the control and rvad groups . hemodynamic parameters and blood samples were collected from the coronary sinus . area at risk and area of infarct were detected by gentian violet injection and triphenyltetrazolium ( ttc ) staining . hemodynamic parameters ( left ventricular systolic pressure ( lvsp ) , cardiac output ( co ] , and creatine kinase levels in coronary sinus blood tended to be beneficial , to some degree , in the rvad group . electron microscopic examination revealed chromatin clumping and mitochondrial destruction , however this ultrastructural damage was more severe in the control group . the ratio of area of infarct to area at risk in the rvad group was significantly less than that in the control group , being 20.25 + / - 6.93 % vs. 47.24 + / - 10.53 % ( p less than 0.05 ) . the infarct size induced by rca occlusion was significantly reduced by the rvad , due to the right ventricular unloading via reduced myocardial oxygen demand . 
a novel mechanical cardiac assist device for reversing left ventricular failure . diastolic augmentation of aortic pressure is an efficacious means of improving coronary perfusion in heart failure . a novel mechanical cardiac assist device ( mcad ) , that has advantages over a conventional intraaortic balloon pump and left ventricular assist devices , has been developed . it consists of a high efficiency rotary solenoid , coupled to a pair of actuator plates that clamp on a shunt aortic graft section , and operates in a diastolic counterpulsation mode . the system has been evaluated in six anesthetized , thoracotomized dogs with myocardial ischemia . the mcad was activated 30-40 min after coronary artery occlusion and synchronized with the r-wave . as illustrated by a representative sample of the data obtained from one of several trials , the preliminary experimental results demonstrated that the mcad worked effectively to fulfill the primary functions of a counterpulsation assist device , i.e. , augmentation of coronary perfusion and reduction in the vascular impedance to ventricular ejection . 
change in sympathetic activity before , during , and after dialysis-induced hypotension . during the hemodialyses of eight patients with end-stage renal failure , who often had sudden-onset dialysis-induced hypotension , catecholamine ( ca ) levels were measured in the ultrafiltrate obtained by a mini-filter placed in series upstream of the dialyzer . the water evaporation rate from the skin ( reflecting the perspiration rate ) was also monitored . results showed a temporary elevation in ca levels in the ultrafiltrate before hypotension occurred . this rise did not continue for long , returning to baseline when hypotension actually occurred . the temporary elevation may reflect transient compensation by the sympathetic nervous system for the decrease in vascular wall tension . it was also found that there was considerable water evaporation from the skin during hypotension . because sweat gland activity is reflexively modulated by the baroreceptor , perspiration after a drop in blood pressure may reflect the normal diminiution in baroreceptor activity . 
ecmo assisted angioplasty for cardiomyopathy patients with unstable angina . patients who are otherwise unsuitable candidates for coronary bypass surgery or standard coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) may be successfully treated with ptca during ecmo . five patients ( 3 men , 2 women ) , with a mean age of 57 years , are reported on here . they were not considered good candidates for standard therapy because of poor left ventricular function ( mean ef , 24 ; range , 16 to 28 % ) . patients were supported by percutaneous femoral bypass using a bard cps machine , and underwent successful ptca of either two vessels ( three patients ) or three vessels ( two patients ) ; in addition , one patient had dilatation of a stenotic aortic valve . patients were supported with ecmo for 26 to 140 ( mean 104 ) minutes , and required transfusion with 0 to 4 ( mean 2 ) units of blood during or after the procedure . complications included groin hematoma in two patients . all were discharged within 4 days of the procedure . follow-up of the patients has been completed ( 4-7 mo ) with no further hospitalizations for unstable angina . all patients remain in nyha class ii or iii . these data suggest that ecmo-assisted angioplasty is a safe and effective method of palliation of unstable angina associated with cardiomyopathy . 
bioenergetic recovery processes of injured myocardium . we employed cervically transplanted nonworking myocardium to simulate the condition of a heart supported by a ventricular assist device , and to investigate the bioenergetic recovery processes of injured myocardium with 31p nuclear magnetic resonance ( nmr ) techniques . a heterotopic graft was placed in the cervical portion of a recipient rat . one week later , a control 31p nmr spectrum was obtained from the graft . on the same day , the aorta of the graft was clamped for 30 minutes at room temperature . after this procedure , 31p nmr measurements of the graft were performed for 1 week . the phosphocreatine ( pcr ) / inorganic phosphate ( pi ) ratio , and beta-phosphate from adenosine triphosphate ( beta-atp ) / pi ratio on the first and second day after injury were significantly lower than control ( p less than 0.05 ) . however , these ratios recovered to a significant extent on the third and fourth day . these results suggest that 3 or 4 days are required for bioenergetic recovery of reversibly injured myocardium , even under nonworking conditions . 
additional salutary hemodynamic effects of the combined use of the paraaortic counterpulsation device and intraaortic balloon pump versus a paraaortic counterpulsation device alone . the hemodynamic effects of the combined use of the paraaortic counterpulsation device ( pacd ) ( stroke volume 65 ml ) implanted on the ascending aorta , and a 20 ml intraaortic balloon pump ( iabp ) placed in the descending aorta , were compared with the pacd working alone in 12 dogs after the induction of heart failure . heart failure was characterized by left ventricular end-diastolic pressure ( lvedp ) greater than 18 mmhg and systolic aortic pressure ( sap ) in stage a : 116 mmhg greater than or equal to sap greater than 70 mmhg ; in stage b : 70 mmhg greater than or equal to sap greater than 30 mmhg ; and in stage c : sap less than or equal to 30 mmhg . both modalities of mechanical assistance produced significant salutary hemodynamic effects in stages a and b. no difference was observed in stage c. in conclusion , the combined use of pacd and iabp is more effective than the use of either of these devices alone . this modality of mechanical assistance may easily be applied in patients that can not be weaned from extracorporeal circulation , and in whom iabp was unsuccessfully applied . 
a composite driving system for lvas and iabp : practical and effective driving and weaning . we have devised a new method , termed alternate synchronous driving ( asd ) , to wean patients from a left ventricular assist system ( lvas ) to a pressure assist intraaortic balloon pump ( iabp ) . we have built a new drive unit , vct200 , to apply asd easily and automatically . after iabp insertion in the final weaning stage , this method drives the lvas and iabp alternately , with electrocardiogram ( ecg ) synchronization . the pumping ratio of iabp increases while that of lvas decreases according to recovery of natural heart function . in in vitro studies , asd was effective when bypass flow ( bf ) was less than 50 % of total flow ( tf ) ( tf : bf + cardiac output [ co ] ) , and its advantages increased under lower bf conditions . mean aortic pressure ( map ) and co increased 10 mmhg and 15 % , respectively , with this method ( iabp : lvas = 1:1 ) when bf was 30 % of tf . during in vivo studies , map increased 75.7 + / - 6.7 mmhg to 80.1 + / - 3.6 mmhg ( p less than 0.001 ) , and the co increased from 3.1 + / - 0.5 l/min to 3.3 + / - 0.5 l/min ( p less than 0.001 ) , while the endocardial viability ratio ( dpti/tti ) increased 20-30 % . this method was used in a 62-year-old man in which lvas was applied after ventricular aneurysmectomy , bf was reduced from 2.2 l/min to 1.1 l/min by using asd without any change in systemic perfusion . this reduction of bf could not be achieved with lvas alone . from these data , this system could wean patients from lvas and then switch to iabp smoothly , easily , and automatically , without hemodynamic instability . 
hemodynamic effects of a new right ventricular assist device . a right ventricular assist device ( vad ) based on the principle of counterpulsation has been developed at our institution . the device is a valveless , pneumatically actuated , 40 cc , sac-type pump , with a single inlet-outlet port . for right ventricular support , the " uniport " pump is anastamosed end-to-side to the pulmonary artery . in previous experimental trials , the device has been shown to impart minimal trauma to blood components . in this study , biventricular failure was induced in eight holstein calves by normothermic ischemia during cardiopulmonary bypass . a pierce-donachy left vad ( lvad ) was used for left ventricular support following the ischemic insult . hemodynamic measurements were obtained throughout the study , and each animal served as its own control . a significant increase in post injury cardiac output ( 33.5 + / - 11.4 % ) was obtained with use of the uniport and lvad , as compared to use of the lvad alone ( p less than or equal to 0.005 ) . other hemodynamic parameters of right heart failure , including right atrial pressure ( rap ) , pulmonary artery pressure ( pap ) , and left atrial pressure ( lap ) were not significantly affected . these data suggest that the uniport right ventricular assist device significantly improves cardiac output in this model of moderate right ventricular failure . additional studies are required , however , to optimize pump stroke volume , and to further define the performance envelope of the device . 
light scattering detection of microemboli in an extracorporeal lvad bovine model . thromboembolization studies were performed on two calves supported by extracorporeal left ventricular assist devices ( lvad ) using a light scattering ( he ne laser ) microemboli detector ( lsmd ) . the lsmd system was placed on the outflow cannula of the lvad in the extracorporeal loop of each animal . the measurements included the size , number , and rate of production of circulating microemboli in the range 20 microns less than microemboli diameter less than 1,000 microns . these data were compared to independently and concurrently obtained measurements of emboli shear rate ( cpf ) , platelet count , red blood count ( rbc ) , leukocyte count ( wbc ) , plasma free hemoglobin , factors xiii , x , and v , and sorbitol dehydrogenase . embolic number and volume were seen to be most dynamic in the very early phases of acute thromboembolization ( 0-40 minutes ) with a peak embolic response within the first 30 minutes . the dynamics of reduced emboli volume , rather than number , may be implicated in the later stages of the thromboembolic passivation of these ventricles . the lsmd results generally showed an inverse correlation of microemboli volume rate with cpf measurements for each ventricle . lsmd , cpf , and leukocyte and platelet counts , showed a direct correlation with reduced counts for each additional ventricle for both calves . factor xii was seen to have a more direct correlation in time with lsmd measurements for each ventricle than other parameters under investigation . this study represents the first time laser scattering and filtration methods have been applied simultaneously with hematologic assays in order to study the dynamics of device associated thrombogenesis . 
comparison of right ventricular and biventricular circulatory support in a porcine model of right heart failure . the effects of right ventricular ( rvad ) and biventricular assist devices ( bvad ) in an acute porcine model of right heart ischemic failure produced by occluding the right coronary artery for 2 min ( rcao ) were compared . right and left ventricular pressures were measured with millar transducers and respective septal-to-free wall dimensions ( rvsfwd , lvsfwd ) with ultrasonic crystals . rcao alone resulted in significant right heart failure , marked by a 36 + / - 5 % reduction in cardiac output ( pulmonary artery flow ) and a 54 + / - 16 % reduction in rv stroke work . isolated rvad significantly improved the hemodynamic conditions by restoring pulmonary blood flow and left heart filling to control levels . rvad also resulted in reduced rvsfwd to control levels and increased lvsfwd via a rightward septal shift due to right heart unloading . biventricular support resulted in the same hemodynamic improvement , but estimated lv peak systolic wall stress was reduced by 65 + / - 15 % compared with control , due to concomitant lv unloading and reductions in lvsfwd . therefore , either right or biventricular devices are effective in treating rv failure . the advantage of biventricular support is that the left ventricle is also unloaded , thus allowing improved circulatory support with minimal lv wall stress . 
thromboembolytic complications during circulatory assistance with a centrifugal pump in patients with valvular prostheses . this article describes two patients with artificial heart valves who suffered thromboembolytic complications during circulatory assistance using a biomedicus centrifugal pump . the first case involved a 25-year-old man who presented acute blockage of a mechanical aortic valve . emergency surgery was performed to replace this valve with a bioprosthesis . postoperatively the patient developed severe left heart insufficiency and a biomedicus centrifugal pump was placed between the left atrium and the ascending aorta . after 3 days of total left ventricular assistance , weaning was started and successfully completed with explanation on the 5th day . two days later the patient died of multiple coronary embolism with thrombosis of the valve . the second case involved a 30-year-old man . six months before , he underwent surgical procedure with placement of bio-prosthesis for dissecting aortic aneurysm due to annuloectasia . upon admission for terminal dilated myocardiopathy , the patient was in kidney failure almost requiring dialysis . because of this patient 's size ( marfan syndrome ) , no donor heart was immediately available and left circulatory assistance with a biomedicus pump had to be initiated . the patient lived without mechanical ventilation , in good clinical condition until day 23 when he presented acute right heart failure due to extensive valvular and coronary thrombosis . from these two cases , several important comments can be made about anticoagulation therapy , partial unloading of left ventricle , or need for biventricular assistance , and efficiency of centrifugal devices in these clinical applications . 
hemodynamic influence of lvad on right ventricular failure . left ventricular assist device ( lvad ) pumping has hemodynamic and anatomic influences on right ventricular performance . a total artificial heart ( tah ) model was employed to better understand the hemodynamic influence of an lvad on the failing right ventricle . biventricular failure was simulated by reducing both ventricular drive pressures of the tah . after getting hemodynamic data , lvad pumping in the case of right ventricular failure was simulated by increasing just the left ventricular drive pressure . in the lvad-simulating condition , cardiac output increased and right atrial pressure decreased significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) compared with the biventricular failure condition , whereas right ventricular function and minute work were the same in these two conditions . even though changes were accompanied by adaptive increases in pulmonary resistance , substantially lower pulmonary artery and left atrial pressures resulted in the lvad-simulating condition . from a hemodynamic perspective , these results indicate that an lvad can increase right ventricular volume work by decreasing right ventricular pressure work , whereas right ventricular net pressure-volume work is unchanged and right ventricular failure is not worsened . 
left ventricular versus left atrial cannulation for the thoratec ventricular assist device . in a retrospective study of 28 patients ( 23 men , 5 women ) supported with ventricular assist devices greater than 3 days , the effect of lv cannulation versus la cannulation on device performance was compared . patients ranged in age from 12 to 67 years ( mean 46 years ) and were supported for 3-81 days ( mean 15 years ) . fifteen patients were supported with left vads ( 6 lv and 9 la ) , and 13 patients were supported with bvads ( 5 lv and 8 la ) . the mode of operation 91 % of the time was the fill-to-empty mode . ten data points were taken for each patient . lv cannulation results in higher vad flow index at decreased preload , lower vad systolic and vacuum pressures , and shorter diastolic durations . eleven of the 28 patients survived . although survival was greater in patients with lv cannulation , survival was more dependent upon reversibility of myocardial damage , eligibility for transplantation , or the development of complications . these data indicate that lv cannulation provides better vad performance than la cannulation in the fill-to-empty mode . 
early and late tamponade with the novacor left ventricular assist system . cardiac tamponade can be a major complication after implantation of the novacor left ventricular assist system ( lvas ) . between 1987 and 1989 , 14 patients received an lvas as a bridge to cardiac transplantation : 3 developed early tamponade ( 33 + / - 12 hr postoperatively ) and 5 were diagnosed with a late tamponade ( 9.4 + / - 3.2 days postoperatively ) . one patient had both early and late tamponade . early tamponade was more common in those with increased perioperative blood loss ( 5,270 + / - 1,942 ml vs. 1,420 + / - 1,160 ml in other patients , p less than 0.05 ) . early tamponade was suggested by reduction in mean arterial pressure ( 74 + / - 1 to 64 + / - 3 mmhg ) , lvas output ( 5 + / - 0.5 to 2.7 + / - 0.7 l/min ) , lvas stroke volume ( 55 + / - 4 to 23 + / - 5 ml ) , and an increase in central venous pressure ( 13 + / - 1 to 21 + / - 1 mmhg , p less than 0.05 for all values ) . late tamponade was associated with a marked rise in central venous pressure ( 14 + / - 1 to 22 + / - 2 mmhg , p less than 0.05 ) , with only a mild decrease in lvas output ( 4.9 + / - 1 to 3.8 + / - 0.9 l/min ) and stroke volume ( 49 + / - 8 to 36 + / - 3 ml ) , without a significant change in mean arterial pressure . two of these five late episodes occurred in patients who were anticoagulated with heparin ( ptt 52 and 100 sec ) , and in one other with warfarin ( pt 27 sec , ptt 55 sec ) ; two patients were not on any anticoagulants . surgical drainage of pericardial effusions , and especially of clotted blood found frequently posterior to the left ventricle in the space created by the lvas decompressed left ventricle , resulted in an immediate return of all hemodynamic measurements to normal in both early and late tamponade . 
prognosis of hospital survivors after salvage from cardiopulmonary bypass with centrifugal cardiac assist . since october 1986 , 6 hospital survivors who were salvaged from cardiopulmonary bypass ( cpb ) with the sarns centrifugal pump were observed . centrifugal assist was employed only after failure to wean with usual resuscitative measures , including multiple high dose inotropes and intraaortic balloon pumping . there were five men and one woman , 46-59 years of age ( mean 61 years ) . all patients had undergone coronary artery bypass grafting , with two patients having had concomitant left ventricular aneurysmectomy and two aortic valve replacement . five patients had left ventricular assist only and one had biventricular assist . duration of assist ranged from 26 to 72 hr ( mean 48 hr ) . complications were ubiquitous , and the resultant prolonged hospitalization was resource intensive . all hospital survivors remain alive and are in new york heart association functional class ii , with an average follow-up of 24 months , ( 6-41 months ) . compared with preoperative values , current left ventricular function is improved in 2 patients , has deteriorated in 3 , and is unchanged in 1 . thus , the sarns centrifugal pump will allow salvage of some patients who otherwise are not weanable from cpb . survivors can expect a reasonable functional capacity as reflected by this experience . 
experience with the sarns centrifugal pump as a ventricular assist device . the authors used the sarns centrifugal pump ( sarns 3m , ann arbor , mi ) as a ventricular assist device ( vad ) in 30 patients between may 1985 and february 1990 . sixteen patients were unweanable from cardiopulmonary bypass at the time of surgery ; nine were patients who developed cardiogenic shock postoperatively in the intensive care unit . one was a donor organ failure ; one had a failed ptca ; and one an acute myocardial infarction with cardiogenic shock preoperatively . two patients were bridged to cardiac transplantation . of the 28 nontransplant candidates , 20 ( 71.4 % ) were weaned successfully , 14 ( 50 % ) were discharged from the hospital , and 13 ( 46 % ) are alive from 1 to 46 months postoperatively ( mean , 21.1 months ) . three patients received right ventricular support alone ; all three were weaned , and two ( 66.7 % ) were discharged . ten patients received left ventricular assistance alone . six ( 60 % ) were weaned , and four ( 40 % ) were discharged . two patients received left ventricular support initially but were taken back for right vad insertion because of right-sided heart failure ; one ( 50 % ) is alive . fifteen patients received biventricular support . eleven ( 77.3 % ) were weaned , and eight ( 53.3 % ) were discharged . patient ages ranged from 19 to 73 years , with a mean age for men of 59 years and 50.5 years for women . there were no thromboembolic events . various clinical parameters were evaluated to determine effect on weanability and survival . these results show survival equivalent to any other vad at this time . the centrifugal pump is a convenient and effective means of maintaining ventricular support in individuals who are believed to have salvageable myocardium . 
hemopump ventricular support for patients undergoing high risk coronary angioplasty . prophylactic implantation of a hemopump ( johnson and johnson , skillman , nj ) has been evaluated in nine patients selected for high risk coronary angioplasty . they were unstable patients , refractory to maximal pharmacology , with indications for revascularization , but contraindications for surgery such as low ejection fraction and lack of material for bypass . in all , the target lesion was located on the last patent vessel . the pump was inserted under local anesthesia , without any graft . a specially designed occluder permitted avoidance of retrograde bleeding during implantation . the bypass flow ranged from 2.5 to 3.2 l/min , and permitted a rise in cardiac index from 2.05 to 2.55 l/min/m2 , with a drop in capillary wedge pressure from 13 ( 7-18 ) to 10 ( 7-13 ) mmhg . during balloon inflation , no electrocardiographic changes were observed , because only minor ventricular arrhythmias occurred . no significant hemolysis was seen ( plasma free hemoglobin less than 10 mg/dl in all ) after 2 hr of pumping . the only limitation of the technique appears to be difficulty at the time of implantation from narrow , stenosed , or tortuous iliofemoral arteries ( 3 patients ) . this experience strongly supports the benefit of temporary left ventricular hemopump support in high-risk situations and clearly shows the need for a smaller pump . 
improved survival after hemopump insertion in patients experiencing postcardiotomy cardiogenic shock during cardiopulmonary bypass . immediate placement of a hemopump ( hp ) ventricular assist device was undertaken in nine patients ( seven men , two women ) after other attempts at weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass ( cpb ) after coronary bypass surgery had failed . all nine patients ( 100 % ) were successfully weaned from cpb , and six ( 63.3 % ) gradually improved enough to permit removal of hp support . five ( 83.3 % ) of the six who were weaned from cpb survived beyond hospital discharge . hp support was evaluated in terms of vital organ function , incidence of complications , and clinical outcome . in both survivors ( s ) and nonsurvivors ( ns ) , serial hemodynamic measurements were taken . although there were few differences in hemodynamic parameters between groups at 4 hr , by 24 hr the s group had markedly improved cardiac index , glasgow coma scale , urinary output , and pulse pressure and required far less inotropic support than did the ns group . all four patients who required high dose inotropic agents to maintain acceptable end-organ perfusion on hp support died ; three were unable to tolerate weaning from the hp , and all died within 72 hr of surgery because of ineffective myocardial recovery . none of the survivors required additional early inotropic augmentation . renal perfusion appeared to be well maintained , even with mean arterial pressures below 60 mmhg during hp support . there were no episodes of hemolysis , infection , or limb ischemia in either group . thus , the hemopump provided excellent circulatory support for those patients who could not be weaned from cpb by traditional methods . 
hemopump support for the failing heart . under fluoroscopy , the hemopump is passed through the aortic valve into the left ventricle through a gortex ( wf gore , denver , co ) chimney sewn to a surgically exposed femoral artery . the system aspirates the left ventricular blood and actively pumps it into the aorta . five patients ( four men , one woman ) , aged 47-71 years ( mean , 62 years ) , were candidates for hemopump support because of refractory cardiogenic shock . three were recovering from repeated coronary artery bypass graft ( cabg ) surgery , and two required postoperative emergency cabg for failed percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) . one patient died during insertion , and four had the hemo-pump successfully placed . all patients had low cardiac out-put and had intraaortic balloons in place . average insertion time took 20 min , with maintenance on the hemopump for an average of 13 hr . one patient was maintained on the hemopump for 12 hr , but because of continued deterioration , was placed on a total artificial heart ( harvik 7-70 ) . patients 3 ( hemopump inserted transthoracically ) and 4 had the hemopump discontinued because of brain death , and the fifth survived . this patient is alive and working 1 yr later . the hemopump is an effective left ventricular support system that is less invasive than conventional transthoracic systems . 
clinical experience with the nimbus pump . the nimbus pump is an indwelling , electromagnetic powered left ventricular ( lv ) assist device inserted transfemorally . the inflow cannula ( 7 mm ) is positioned across the aortic valve and the pump in the descending aorta . indications for insertion include cardiogenic shock despite maximal medical support and pcwp greater than 18 mmhg , map less than 90 mmhg , and cl less than 2 l/min/m2 . twelve patients underwent the attempt at surgical insertion of the nimbus pump . diagnoses included eight acute myocardial infarctions ( ami ) , two ischemic cardiomyopathy , one postpartum cardiomyopathy , and one transplanted heart rejection . eight ( 67 % ) of twelve patients had successful insertion . one patient had peripheral vascular disease preventing passage , and three had femoral vessels too small for insertion ( less than 7.5 hagar dilator ) . five patients with the diagnosis of ami had successful insertion and three ( 60 % ) underwent sufficient lv recovery for removal of the device ; the other two patients died of stroke and ventricular arrhythmias , respectively . three patients with the diagnosis of cardiomyopathy had progression of the disease process , and their needs exceeded the capabilities of the pump and they died of multiorgan failure . the nimbus pump is an attractive lv assist device because of its pumping capacity ( 3.5 l/min ) and minor surgical procedure for insertion . however , its application is limited because of access route and size . the device appears to work well for patients in cardiogenic shock after ami ( 60 % recovery ) but does not appear indicated for patients with cadiomyopathy . 
a blood-liquid interface for prolonged extracorporeal oxygenation with excellent antithrombogenicity . the authors verified the excellent antithrombogenicity of a blood-liquid interface ( bli ) and introduced an oxygenator based on the principle of gas exchange across direct bli . in a newly developed oxygenator , three layers of liquid flowed horizontally , contacting one another : o2 saturated silicone oil on the top , o2 saturated fluorcarbon at the bottom , and blood in the middle . gas exchange was carried out across both direct blis . this system provided excellent antithrombogenicity as well as good gas exchange . the results indicate that this method will become a promising modality for prolonged extracorporeal oxygenation . 
increase of intraplatelet free calcium ion during extracorporeal circulation with a hollow fiber oxygenator : arterial filter and dynamics of platelet thrombosis on oxygenator and filter in a pig model . intraplatelet free calcium ( ipfc ) ions provide a common pathway for platelet activation leading to thrombosis and embolization . ipfc levels were determined by chlorotetracycline fluorometry during extracorporeal circulation ( ecc ) with systemic heparin in eight yorkshire pigs ( weighing 30-40 kg ; 3 control and 5 ecc ) ; the ratio of slow phase organelle calcium sequestration to fast phase platelet-membrane binding is an index of free calcium . during 3 hr of ecc with a hollow fiber oxygenator ( hfo ) ( bentley cm-50 ) and af ( bentley 1025 ) , seven blood samples were collected 5 min before and during ecc . the platelet deposition ( cpm/microci ) on hfo ( pdhfo ) was simultaneously measured with in-111-labeled autologous platelets ( 300-400 microci ) and a geiger probe detector at -5 , 0 , 5 , 30 , 45 , 60 , 120 , and 180 min . during ecc , ipfc and hfo thrombus increase significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) at 45 min with respect to control ipfc values of 0.4 + / - 0.1 , suggesting direct participation of calcium activated platelets in thrombosis on hfo . the decline of ipfc is due to extrusion and sequestration by dense granules , and decline in hfo thrombus is due to embolization . on the other hand , the embolus in the arterial filter was trapped in a linear fashion , with a consistent increase with time of ecc . 
lvas pump performance following initiation of left ventricular assistance . prevention of disturbed flow ( e.g. , flow stasis ) and consequent thrombosis in heart pumps is based upon design characteristics determined during laboratory bench tests . these tests employ optimal filling and emptying characteristics , such as the full-fill to complete empty mode in the novacor left ventricular assist system . filling characteristics of the novacor lvas were examined during the first 48 hours after implantation in 14 patients . fill volume of the pump was reduced in pathologic states , such as cardiac tamponade , and following the initiation of right ventricular mechanical circulatory support . in addition , multiple regression analysis revealed that right ventricular function measured by the amount of inotropic support required , the right ventricular ejection fraction , and the total pulmonary resistance , significantly predicted left ventricular assist pump fill volume during the first 48 hours of support . flow visualization simulating these clinical conditions of incomplete filling suggest inadequate valve washing , particularly around the inlet valve and its conduit , which may predispose to thrombus formation . 
clinical use of the berlin biventricular assist device as a bridge to transplantation . the berlin artificial heart system/biventricular assist device ( bvad ) was used in 38 patients . 1 ) twenty-eight patients were awaiting cardiac transplantation ( tx ) ( age 23-56 yrs ) . all patients had contraindications not allowing immediate tx . 2 ) five patients were emergency cases not on our tx list ( postcardiotomy cardiac failure , acute myocarditis ) ( age 28-59 ) . 3 ) five patients were post tx patients with graft failure ( age 22-52 ) . extracorporal circulation was used for implantation of the bvad . in group 1 , 21 of 28 patients ( pts ) recovered , and all were subsequently transplanted after 6 hours to 39 days , when all organ function was restored . in 7 pts , mechanical circulation was terminated after 1-40 days because of further deterioration . five of the transplanted pts died , 14 pts survived ( greater than 30 days ) , and 2 pts were just transplanted with satisfactory postoperative courses . of group 2 and 3 pts , two were successfully weaned . in one patient the allograft recovered after 11 days of support . 
multi-institutional evaluation of the tokyo university ventricular assist system . a total of 61 vass developed in tokyo university were evaluated at 21 institutions in the period 1985-1989 for determination of its reliability and effectiveness . the system is comprised of a pneumatic sack-type pump ( nippon zeon co. ) , and its driving console ( aishin seiki co. ) . the stroke volume of the pump is 40 ml and blood contacting surfaces are coated with cardiothane . ages of the patients ( pts ) ranged from 12-82 yrs ( mean 58 yrs ) . vass were used in the assist mode of lvad ( 54 pts ) , rvad ( 5 pts ) and bvad ( 2 pts ) . most of the cases ( 58 pts ) included postocardiotomy cardiogenic shock after surgery for ischemic ( 28 pts ) , valvular ( 22 pts ) , both ischemic and valvular ( 7 pts ) and congenital ( 1 pt ) heart diseases . average duration of the assist ranged from 1 hr-20 days ( mean 5.6 dys ) . the vads could be weaned in 34 cases ( 56 % ) and among these , 13 cases ( 21 % ) survived to discharge from the hospital . causes of death in cases which could be weaned from the vad included multiple organ failure/due to delayed institution of adequate circulatory support , renal failure and systemic infection . small and minute thrombus formations were noted in 7 cases however , no pump originated thromboembolism were complicated . no troubles of the pump including leakage nor breakage , no mechanical failures of the driving consoles were experienced in any of the cases . thus , it is concluded that the system was proved to be clinically effective and reliable . 
thrombus in a natural left ventricle during left ventricular assist : another thromboembolic risk factor . systemic thromboembolism is one of the serious complications during use of a left ventricular assist system ( lvas ) . the authors ' original lvas has excellent antithrombogenicity to reduce this risk , but thrombus formation in a natural left ventricle ( lv ) is another risk factor for systemic embolization . we used our lvas in 22 patients . of these , lv wall motion was studied in 15 , and a smoke-like echo disclosed thrombus in the lv in eight . when lvas sufficiently supported the systemic circulation , lv wall motion was irregular upon closure of the aortic valve . upon recovery of lv function and decrease of lvas flow , the smoke-like echo diminished and lv thrombus decreased in one , but lv thrombus remained unchanged or increased in seven . systemic administration of antithrombotic agents had an unclear effect . seven of eight patients with lv thrombus on echo died during or after lvas . in these seven , a high incidence of lv thrombus ( 71 % ) , and systemic embolism to the brain ( 29 % ) or kidney ( 86 % ) , were revealed at necropsy . we subsequently used local heparinization to prevent lv thrombus formation . one patient with a smoke-like echo had no evidence of lv thrombus or systemic embolism . during lv assist , careful management of the lvas , and intra-lv heparinization should be considered to reduce the risk of thrombus formation in the natural lv . 
effect of a leukocyte-platelet removal filter on ischemia induced reperfusion injury . the effect of leukocyte and platelet depletion on reperfusion injury using a leukocyte-platelet removal filter ( lrf ) in intracoronary thrombolysis is reported . to better define the usefulness of lrf in evaluating the effectiveness of intracoronary thrombolysis with this device , several cardiovascular variables were examined in rabbits during ischemia followed by reperfusion . the rabbits underwent cytoapheresis with lrf ( n = 5 ) and were compared with controls without lrf ( n = 5 ) . lrf was composed of a nonwoven polyester fabric ( 1.8 microns , 4.6 gm ) . removal of leukocytes and platelets by lrf was 98 % for both . a period of 30 min equilibration was allowed before any experimental intervention , at which time the diagonal artery was occluded for 20 min and then reperfused . all arrhythmias were defined and quantified in accordance with the lambeth convention . regional wall thickening was examined by a pulsed doppler dimension system . no significant differences were observed in hemodynamic variables between the two groups ; however , rabbits treated with a lrf demonstrated greater regional wall thickening ( lrf group : 17 + / - 0.9 % , control group : 11 + / - 0.3 % , p less than 0.01 ) , as well as significant improvement in the frequency of ventricular arrhythmias ( lrf group : 12.5 % , control group : 47.2 % , p less than 0.01 ) . the data suggest that lrf may help prevent arrhythmias , and preserve left ventricular contraction , during and after intracoronary thrombolysis . 
the dynamics of platelet thrombus formation rate , thrombus retention time , and rate of embolization on a control and heparin bonded polyurethane angio-catheter . the dynamics of platelet deposition and embolization from control and heparin bonded polyurethane catheters ( cpc and hbpc ) was evaluated with in-111 labeled autologous platelets ( in-plt ) and a computerized gamma camera ( cgc ) . ten non-heparinized dogs ( 18-25 kg ) were catheterized in both femoral arteries with 10 cm of cpc and hbpc ( 5 fr. , cordis ) 24 hr after injection of 300-420 microci of in-plt , and imaged for 3 hr with the computerized gamma camera . the regional platelet deposition curves ( rpdc ) indicated multiple peaks and valleys ; the curves were analyzed for early rate of thrombus formation ( upswing ) , thrombus retention time ( full width at half maxima of the rpdc-peak ) , and rate of embolization ( downswing ) on both catheters . the four parameters ( mean + / - sd ) of thrombosis on catheters and integral of the radioactivity time curve for the 3 hr duration of imaging were calculated from normalized counts/sec . the rate of thrombus formation and rate of embolization are higher for the control than hbpc , suggesting that heparin-bonding decreases the early rate of thrombosis and embolization . the thrombus adhesivity and retention time appear shorter for the control catheter , indicating that the control thrombogenic catheter forms multiple thrombi and emboli than hbpc . the integral appears larger for the control catheter than hbpc . in vivo ( dynamic ) studies , in vitro studies , and critical analyses of the radioactivity time curve were essential for complete evaluation of thrombogenicity of catheters and other cardiovascular prostheses . 
recombinant human erythropoietin does not increase clotting in vascular accesses . the incidence of vascular access clotting was evaluated over 5.25 years . the first 32 months served as a control period . during the second period of 31 months , recombinant human erythropoietin ( epoetin ) was used for an average duration of 13 months ( range , 2-32 months ) in 79 patients . the overall incidence of vascular access clotting decreased from a monthly rate of 0.06 to 0.03 events per patient-month over the 5 year period . distribution of the number of events per patient did not differ between the two periods , with 55 % to 60 % of patients having no clotting episode . patients with recurrent clotting ( two or more events ) accounted for 68 % of episodes . during the second period , there were no differences in the incidence of vascular access clotting in epoetin treated patients vs untreated patients ( 0.38 events per patient-year vs. 0.46 events per patient-year , both slightly lower than in period 1 [ 0.52 events per patient-year ] ) . it is concluded that epoetin does not increase vascular access clotting . 
socioeconomic conditions in childhood and ischaemic heart disease during middle age objective -- to examine the association between socioeconomic conditions in childhood and ischaemic heart disease in middle aged men , including the role of physiological and behavioural risk factors . design -- prevalence study with extensive examination and testing and with recall of childhood conditions . setting -- population based study in kuopio , finland . subjects -- representative sample of 2679 men aged 42 , 48 , 54 , and 60 . main outcome measures -- ischaemic findings on progressive maximal exercise test . results -- low socioeconomic style in childhood was associated with significantly higher prevalence of findings indicating ischaemias . compared with those in the highest tertile of childhood socioeconomic conditions , the age adjusted odds ratio for subjects in the lowest tertile was 1.44 and for those in the middle tertile 1.35 . adjustment for years of cigarette smoking times the average number of cigarettes smoked , ratio of high density lipoprotein to low density lipoprotein cholesterol , fibrinogen and serum selenium concentrations , and adult height did not appreciably weaken the association . adjustment for adult socioeconomic state resulted in a 16 % decline in the association . the association was reduced to non-significance by adjustment for measures of prevalent cardiovascular illness . conclusions -- socioeconomic state in childhood was significantly associated with ischaemic heart disease in middle aged men . levels of risk factors measured at middle age did not account for this association , nor did adult height . because childhood socioeconomic conditions precede the development of ischaemic heart disease the substantial impact of prevalent illness on the observed association suggests that ischaemic heart disease develops earlier in those with lower socioeconomic state during childhood . 
pancreatic ischaemia in experimental acute pancreatitis : mechanism , significance and therapy . much clinical and experimental evidence suggests that pancreatic ischaemia in the early phase of acute pancreatitis is important in the development of pancreatic necrosis . while depletion of intravascular volume has often been assumed to be the main circulatory defect , an additional disturbance of pancreatic microcirculation has been demonstrated experimentally . possible contributory mechanisms include chemical-induced vasoconstriction , direct injury of vessel wall , intravascular coagulation and increased endothelial permeability resulting in pancreatic oedema , haemoconcentration and impaired venous drainage . pancreatic ischaemia as a consequence of these local effects seems to be responsible for the transition of mild pancreatitis to parenchymal necrosis . in experimental models the beneficial effect of various drugs and of sympathetic blockade has been ascribed to an improvement in pancreatic perfusion . although effective volume therapy is generally accepted as the mainstay of conservative treatment in acute pancreatitis , the efficacy of different fluid preparations is still controversial , and simple fluid resuscitation has not been shown to prevent the development of parenchymal necrosis . the specific impairment of pancreatic microcirculation can not be prevented merely by replenishment of intravascular volume with crystalloids , albumin or plasma despite normalization of macrohaemodynamics . in contrast , partial replacement of blood by dextran preparations has been shown to increase pancreatic perfusion by improving blood fluidity . isovolaemic haemodilution in conjunction with conventional fluid therapy may provide a new and effective means of protecting the pancreas from secondary injury due to the early ischaemic phase of acute pancreatitis . 
surgical presentation of kawasaki disease ( mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome ) . five patients with kawasaki disease ( mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome ) are reported whose varied presentations included acute abdominal pain , peripheral arterial aneurysms , digital gangrene and sterile pyuria and whose presenting pathology ranged from hydrops of the gallbladder to enteric pseudo-obstruction . as the complications of the disease can usually be managed without resort to surgery , which is associated with a mortality rate of up to 25 per cent , the recognition of kawasaki disease will prevent hazardous and unnecessary laparotomy . 
buerger 's colour . cyanosis of the hands and feet in buerger 's disease is known as ' buerger 's colour ' . this characteristic skin colour is produced by the subpapillary venous plexus . the reactions of the subpapillary venous plexus in patients with buerger 's disease were observed by analysing the fractional blood volume of tissue using a visible light reflective spectrophotometer . capillary morphology was investigated using an intravital video-microscopic system . twenty-seven subjects , comprising 13 normals and 14 patients with buerger 's disease , were studied . in the nailbeds of patients with buerger 's disease , an increase in the number of loops , cyanotic colour change and dilatation were observed . in this condition there was incompetence of venular tonus and regurgitation at venular valves . buerger 's colour is probably due to excessive congestion of venous blood in the subpapillary venous plexus which is produced by these mechanisms . 
plasma therapy for severe hemolytic-uremic syndrome in children in atlantic canada . clinical reports have suggested that therapy with fresh frozen plasma is a useful adjunct in the management of the hemolytic-uremic syndrome ( hus ) . we reviewed the charts of 36 children with severe hus who were treated at the izaac walton killam hospital for children , halifax , over 10 years to assess the effectiveness of plasma therapy . all children who required specific supportive therapy for renal dysfunction , hemolysis or serious extrarenal complications were included . we compared the outcome of 18 children who received plasma therapy from 1982 to 1987 with that of 18 children who did not . the two groups were similar with regard to the severity of hus , the length of hospital stay , the duration of renal dysfunction and the incidence of disease-related complications , such as seizures , enterocolitis and cardiomyopathy . at discharge the prevalence of hypertension was higher in the plasma therapy group than in the control group . plasma therapy did not demonstrate any benefit that would outweigh the risk of fluid overload , hyperproteinemia and transmission of viral infection . 
cardiovascular response of a continuous variable rate alfentanil infusion for abdominal aortic surgery . a prospective study was undertaken to determine the cardiovascular response of a continuous alfentanil infusion during abdominal aortic surgery ( aas ) . each subject ( n = 20 ) received a beta-blocking drug preoperatively , and was premedicated with oral lorazepam . anaesthesia was induced with alfentanil 50 micrograms.kg-1 and thiopentone 3 mg.kg-1 , and was maintained with a variable rate infusion of alfentanil and 66 per cent nitrous oxide in oxygen . during the infusion , boluses of alfentanil , 7.5 micrograms.kg-1 , were administered to maintain heart rate and blood pressure within 20 per cent of awake baseline values . haemodynamic stability during surgery was achieved with infusion rates varying between 0.5 and 2.5 micrograms.kg-1 , which resulted in mean alfentanil serum concentrations ranging from 186 + / - 53 to 315 + / - 98 ng.ml-1 . the mean cumulative alfentanil dose was 15.4 + / - 6.2 mg.patient-1 for surgery which lasted an average of 141 + / - 41 min . throughout surgery , no patient required inhalational anaesthetic agents or vasoactive drugs . fifteen of the 20 patients had perioperative holter monitoring . no myocardial ischaemia was detected during the intraoperative period . however , there was a 33 per cent incidence of myocardial ischaemia on the first postoperative day . there were no myocardial infarcts and no deaths . we conclude that in beta-blocked patients undergoing aortic reconstructive surgery , a variable rate alfentanil infusion administered with 66 per cent nitrous oxide provides anaesthesia characterized by good haemodynamic control without the need for supplemental agents or vasoactive drugs . 
post-cannulation radial artery aneurysm -- a rare complication . the following case report describes an expanding aneurysmal dilatation of the radial artery which developed 17 days following cannulation . possible causes of this complication are : abnormal state of the vessel wall , multiple attempts at cannulation , and haematoma or infection at cannulation site . other major and minor sequelae following arterial cannulation are reviewed . 
crico-tracheal disruption and common carotid artery occlusion : a case of blunt trauma . a case of blunt trauma to the neck is presented . while driving an all terrain vehicle ( atv ) , a 20-yr-old male was struck across the anterior neck by a cord suspended between two poles . initial findings were suggestive of an isolated laryngeal injury ; 48 hours later , however , a dense left hemiplegia became manifest . a ct scan demonstrated a large right frontoparietal cerebral infarct , and an angiogram confirmed occlusion of the right common carotid artery . intractable cerebral oedema developed , and the patient died five days after the initial insult . such injuries should alert the clinician to the possibility of major vascular injury , and if suspected , angiography is warranted . 
the effect of intravenous fixed-dose heparin during total hip arthroplasty on the incidence of deep-vein thrombosis . a randomized , double-blind trial in patients operated on with epidural anesthesia and controlled hypotension . heparin was given in fixed doses intravenously during unilateral primary total hip-replacement operations in a prospective , double-blind trial to assess the effect on the incidence of deep-vein thrombosis . one hundred and fifty patients were randomly assigned to one of two groups before the operation . twenty-four patients were excluded from the study , leaving 126 patients . group i consisted of sixty-six patients who received saline solution intravenously , and group ii comprised sixty patients who received heparin . all patients had epidural anesthesia with controlled hypotension . fixed doses of heparin were administered five minutes before the operative incision was made and every thirty minutes throughout the operation . mean arterial pressures were maintained at between fifty and sixty millimeters of mercury in all patients . ascending venography was done on the seventh day after the operation . the incidence of deep-vein thrombosis was 24 per cent ( sixteen of sixty-six patients ) in group i and 8 per cent ( five of sixty patients ) in group ii ; the difference is significant ( p = 0.03 ) . the intraoperative loss of blood averaged 220 + / - 79 milliliters in group i compared with 269 + / - 109 milliliters in group ii . an average of less than one unit of blood was transfused for each patient in each group . postoperatively , there was no difference between the groups with regard to the amount of drainage that was collected in a hemovac device or the values for hematocrit . 
increased rat cardiac angiotensin converting enzyme activity and mrna expression in pressure overload left ventricular hypertrophy . effects on coronary resistance , contractility , and relaxation . we compared the activity and physiologic effects of cardiac angiotensin converting enzyme ( ace ) using isovolumic hearts from male wistar rats with left ventricular hypertrophy due to chronic experimental aortic stenosis and from control rats . in response to the infusion of 3.5 x 10 ( -8 ) m angiotensin i in the isolated buffer perfused beating hearts , the intracardiac fractional conversion to angiotensin ii was higher in the hypertrophied hearts compared with the controls ( 17.3 + / - 4.1 % vs 6.8 + / - 1.3 % , p less than 0.01 ) . ace activity was also significantly increased in the free wall , septum , and apex of the hypertrophied left ventricle , whereas ace activity from the nonhypertrophied right ventricle of the aortic stenosis rats was not different from that of the control rats . northern blot analyses of poly ( a ) + purified rna demonstrated the expression of ace mrna , which was increased fourfold in left ventricular tissue obtained from the hearts with left ventricular hypertrophy compared with the controls . in both groups , the intracardiac conversion of angiotensin i to angiotensin ii caused a comparable dose-dependent increase in coronary resistance . in the control hearts , angiotensin ii activation had no significant effect on systolic or diastolic function ; however , it was associated with a dose-dependent depression of left ventricular diastolic relaxation in the hypertrophied hearts . these novel observations suggest that cardiac ace is induced in hearts with left ventricular hypertrophy , and that the resultant intracardiac activation of angiotensin ii may have differential effects on myocardial relaxation in hypertrophied hearts relative to controls . 
clinical association of autoantibodies to fibrillarin with diffuse scleroderma and disseminated telangiectasia . circulating autoantibodies against a variety of nuclear and nucleolar antigens are characteristic serologic findings in systemic scleroderma . some of these antibodies correlate with clinical subsets of the disease . we describe three patients with systemic scleroderma and high autoantibody titers against u3 ribonucleoprotein-associated fibrillarin , a recently identified 34 kd nucleolar protein . these patients showed a progressive course with multiple organ and diffuse skin involvement with disseminated telangiectasia . 
coronary angioplasty in young adults : initial results and late outcome . the initial and late outcome of coronary angioplasty was studied in 148 patients less than 40 years of age ( mean 36.4 + / - 3 ) . angioplasty was performed on a single vessel in 70 % of patients and on multiple vessels in 30 % ; it was performed on a totally occluded vessel in 20 % . angioplasty was successful in 90.5 % of patients , unsuccessful but uncomplicated in 7.4 % and complicated by myocardial infarction in 0.7 % , emergency bypass surgery in 0.7 % and death in 0.7 % . at late ( mean 3.7 + / - 3 years ; range 0.5 to 11.5 ) follow-up study after successful angioplasty , 94 % of patients were alive , 79 % were free of angina and 85 % had returned to work ; late myocardial infarction occurred in 4 % . actuarial survival at 5 years was 95 % , and 85 % of patients were free from death , infarction or bypass surgery . a second angioplasty was performed in 29 patients ( 22 % ) ( mean 6.1 + / - 8.4 months ) and was successful in 27 ( 93 % ) , with no deaths . elective coronary bypass surgery was performed in 8.5 % of patients , with perioperative infarction in 9 % and no deaths . by univariate analysis , late death was more likely to occur in hypertensive patients ( 15 % versus 2.5 % ; p less than 0.01 ) and diabetic patients ( 21.4 % versus 3.6 % ; p less than 0.01 ) . cox proportional hazard regression analysis identified hypertension ( p = 0.007 ) and diabetes ( p = 0.04 ) as independent time-related predictors of subsequent death . thus , early and late results after coronary angioplasty in young adults are favorable , but certain risk factors are important predictors of outcome . late revascularization procedures ( repeat angioplasty or surgery ) for restenosis or disease progression are common . 
decreased operative risk of surgical treatment of mitral regurgitation with or without coronary artery disease . the consecutive 2 year experience with patients undergoing first-time surgery for mitral regurgitation with and without coronary artery disease was reviewed . from january 1988 to january 1990 , 127 patients with pure mitral regurgitation undergoing first-time operation were surgically treated . no other valve lesion , no reoperation and no congenital defects were included . the mean patient age was 62 years with 26 % of the patients greater than 70 years . twenty-six percent of the entire group was in functional class iv . seventy-five patients received mitral valve repair and 52 underwent mitral valve replacement with a st. jude or hancock valve . in patients undergoing mitral valve repair , there was a higher incidence of those greater than 70 years old and of coronary artery disease and in patients undergoing mitral valve replacement there was a higher incidence of functional class iv . the operative mortality rate was 2.3 % ( 3 of 127 patients ) . no patient failed to be discontinued from cardiopulmonary bypass and all three deaths occurred after mitral valve replacement , with one from complications of chronic renal failure and dialysis . there was no significant difference in patients who either did or did not have a concomitant coronary artery bypass graft and there was no difference related to age or functional class . postoperative complications occurred in five patients in the valve repair group , including recurrent mitral regurgitation in two necessitating reoperation , and in three patients in the valve replacement group . with newer operative and postoperative management techniques , especially preservation of the papillary muscle annular continuity , the risk of mitral valve surgery , particularly of valve repair , is considerably lower than in previous years . 
apical segmental dysfunction in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy : subgroup with unique clinical features . a segmental wall motion abnormality is an unusual finding in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . to clarify its clinical significance , 48 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy were analyzed . eight patients ( group a ) had apical segmental dysfunction ; 40 ( group b ) had normal wall motion . no patient in either group had coronary artery stenosis on selective coronary arteriography . in all patients in group a , apical segmental dysfunction was revealed by left ventriculography ; however , it could be detected by echocardiography in only two patients in group a. left ventricular hypertrophy by electrocardiogram ( ecg ) was more common in group b ( p less than 0.05 ) . abnormal q waves were more frequently discovered in group a ( p less than 0.005 ) and were recognized predominantly in the lateral leads . on serial ecgs , a gradual development of abnormal q waves was noted in six of eight patients in group a. malignant arrhythmias were more common in group a ( p less than 0.001 ) . in two patients in group a , left ventricular dilation and congestive heart failure developed during the follow-up period . thus , the presence of a q wave in the lateral leads on an ecg in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy may indicate the presence of apical segmental dysfunction . left ventriculography should be performed to examine the presence of this abnormality and 24 h ambulatory ecg monitoring should be done to detect malignant arrhythmias in patients who have abnormal q waves in the lateral leads . patients with this unique type of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy need careful follow-up evaluation . 
contrast echocardiographic mapping of collateralized myocardium in humans before and after coronary angioplasty conventional coronary arteriography is able to demonstrate the presence of coronary collateral vessels but can not delineate the specific region of myocardium to which they supply blood . to test the hypothesis that contrast echocardiography can specifically identify collateralized myocardium , contrast echocardiographic perfusion " maps " were compared in patients with ( n = 12 ) and without ( n = 12 ) angiographic evidence of coronary collateral flow , both before and after coronary angioplasty . contrast echocardiographic images of the mid-left ventricle in the short-axis view at end-diastole were obtained after separate injections of a sonicated contrast agent into both the right and the left coronary arteries . a computer-based contouring system was used to determine the individual areas of myocardium perfused by each of the two coronary arteries and then to superimpose the images of the two perfusion beds . the resulting area of overlapping perfusion represented myocardium receiving blood flow from both coronary systems and was defined as collateralized myocardium . to normalize for heart size , overlap area was expressed as a percent of total myocardial area , which was the area between endocardium and epicardium in the short-axis view . to adjust for differences in vascular distribution , overlap area was expressed as a percent of the perfusion area of the recipient vessel . in patients with angiographic collateral flow , the recipient vessel was that vessel receiving the collateral flow . in patients without angiographic collateral flow , the right coronary artery was considered the recipient vessel . overlap area was 1.3 + / - 0.4 % of total myocardial area and 6.6 + / - 1.7 % of recipient vessel area in patients without angiographic evidence of collateral flow compared with 30.6 + / - 2.5 % and 89.2 + / - 6.4 % , respectively , in patients with angiographic collateral flow ( p less than 0.001 for both ) . in four patients in whom angiographic collateral flow was abolished by angioplasty , overlap area decreased from 30.3 + / - 5.3 % to 6.8 + / - 2.7 % of total myocardial area and from 100 % to 18.5 + / - 5.4 % of recipient vessel area ( p less than 0.05 for both ) . thus , contrast echocardiography is able to map the specific myocardial territory perfused by coronary collateral flow and document an immediate reduction in perfusion in this territory when collateral flow is abolished by angioplasty . 
ventricular stroke work loss : validation of a method of quantifying the severity of aortic stenosis and derivation of an orifice formula because aortic stenosis results in the loss of left ventricular stroke work ( due to resistance to flow through the valve and turbulence in the aorta ) , the percentage of stroke work that is lost may reflect the severity of stenosis . this index can be calculated from pressure data alone . the relation between percent stroke work loss and anatomic aortic valve orifice area ( measured by planimetry from videotape ) was investigated in a pulsatile flow model . thirteen valves were studied ( nine human aortic valves obtained at necropsy and four bioprosthetic valves ) at stroke volumes of 40 to 100 ml , giving 57 data points . valve area ranged from 0.3 to 2.8 cm2 and mean systolic pressure gradient from 3 to 84 mm hg . percent stroke work loss , calculated as mean systolic pressure gradient divided by mean ventricular systolic pressure x 100 % , ranged from 7 to 68 % . it was closely related to anatomic orifice area with an inverse exponential relation and was not significantly related to flow ( r = -0.15 ) . an orifice formula was derived that predicted anatomic orifice area with a 95 % confidence interval of + / - 0.5 cm2 ( orifice area [ cm2 ] = 4.82 [ 2.39 x log percent stroke work loss ] , r = -0.94 , see = 0.029 ) . these results support the clinical use of percent stroke work loss as an easily obtained index of the severity of aortic stenosis . 
reduced atrial contribution to left ventricular filling in patients with severe tricuspid regurgitation after tricuspid valvulectomy : a doppler echocardiographic study . patients undergoing valvulectomy for isolated tricuspid valve endocarditis offer the unique opportunity to study the effects of acquired right ventricular volume overload on left ventricular filling in persons free of pulmonary hypertension and preexisting left heart disease . eleven patients who had undergone total or partial removal of the tricuspid valve were compared with 11 age-matched control subjects ; doppler echocardiographic techniques were used to quantify changes in left ventricular filling and to relate them to changes in left ventricular and left atrial geometry caused by right ventricular and right atrial distension . the late diastolic fractional transmitral flow velocity integral , a measure of the left atrial contribution to left ventricular filling , was significantly decreased in patients undergoing tricuspid valvulectomy compared with control subjects ( 0.22 + / - 0.11 versus 0.32 + / - 0.09 ; p less than 0.04 ) . severe tricuspid regurgitation in these patients resulted in marked right atrial distension , reversal of the normal interatrial septal curvature and compression of the left atrium such that left atrial area was significantly smaller than in control subjects ( 5.9 + / - 2.2 versus 8.6 + / - 1.2 cm2/m2 ; p less than 0.005 ) . acting as a receiving chamber , the left ventricle was maximally compressed by the volume-overloaded right ventricle in late diastole , coincident with the timing of atrial systole , resulting in a significant increase in the left ventricular eccentricity index compared with that in control subjects ( 1.35 + / - 0.14 versus 1.03 + / - 0.1 ; p less than 0.001 ) . thus , right ventricular volume overload due to severe tricuspid regurgitation results in left heart geometric alterations that decrease left atrial preload , impair left ventricular receiving chamber characteristics and reduce the atrial contribution to total left ventricular filling . 
origin and significance of diastolic doppler flow signals in the left ventricular outflow tract . diastolic doppler flow signals ( greater than or equal to 0.2 m/s ) in the left ventricular outflow tract have not been well characterized , and their origin and significance remain controversial . fifty-nine patients ( 55 + / - 16 years of age ) with technically good doppler echocardiographic studies were studied prospectively . there were 14 normal subjects , 21 patients with left ventricular hypertrophy , 10 with dilated cardiomyopathy and 14 with other cardiac disease . the rhythm was sinus in 55 and atrial fibrillation in 4 . two distinct doppler flow signals were detected in the left ventricular outflow tract during diastole . these were termed e ' ( early ) and a ' ( active ) because they occurred 40 to 100 ms after higher velocity mitral inflow e ( passive filling ) and a ( atrial contraction ) signals . among 59 patients , e ' signals were present in 48 ( 81 % ) and had a mean velocity of 0.41 + / - 0.23 m/s . in 55 patients with normal sinus rhythm , a ' signals were present in 52 ( 95 % ) and had a mean velocity of 0.52 + / - 0.24 m/s . no a ' signals were present in the four patients with atrial fibrillation . the e ' and a ' velocities by pulsed wave doppler ultrasound were low at the left ventricular apex and increased along the basal septum in the left ventricular outflow tract . prominent a ' velocities ( greater than or equal to 0.45 m/s ) were seen in 62 % of patients with left ventricular hypertrophy , 50 % of normal subjects and 10 % of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy . the a ' velocity was higher in patients with left ventricular hypertrophy ( 0.63 + / - 0.26 m/s ) than in those with a normal heart ( 0.45 + / - 0.16 m/s ; p less than 0.05 ) or dilated cardiomyopathy ( 0.25 + / - 0.13 m/s ; p less than 0.01 ) . the major determinants of diastolic outflow tract velocity were the mitral inflow e and a velocities and left end-diastolic dimension , particularly when combined ( r = 0.64 , p less than 0.0001 for e ' ; r = 0.72 , p less than 0.0001 for a ' ) . distinctive e ' and a ' doppler outflow tract signals result from mitral inflow and may be detected in most patients with normal heart size . these e ' and a ' velocities increase from apex to base and are more prominent in patients with a small , normally contracting heart or left ventricular hypertrophy . 
noninvasive detection of patients with ischemic and nonischemic heart disease prone to ventricular fibrillation . abnormalities in the fast fourier transforms of signal-averaged electrocardiograms ( ecgs ) obtained during sinus rhythm appear to distinguish patients with ischemic heart disease and sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia from those without ventricular tachycardia . this study was performed to determine the power of frequency analysis to detect patients with a history of ventricular fibrillation , to determine the extent to which spectra of signal-averaged ecgs from patients with ischemic and nonischemic heart disease are comparable and to compare results of signal-averaged ecg analysis in patients with ventricular fibrillation with results of programmed ventricular stimulation . signal-averaged ecgs were obtained during sinus rhythm from 60 patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia ( group i ) and 34 patients with ventricular fibrillation ( group ii ) . results of signal-averaged ecg analysis were abnormal in 92 % of patients with ventricular tachycardia and 85 % of patients with ventricular fibrillation ( p = ns ) . abnormal spectra were detected in the signal-averaged ecgs from 90 % of patients with ischemic and from 86 % of patients with nonischemic heart disease ( p = ns ) . in contrast , the results of programmed stimulation differed markedly between the two patient groups . sustained ventricular arrhythmias were induced in 91 % of the patients with ventricular tachycardia compared with only 46 % of those with ventricular fibrillation ( p less than 0.0001 ) . moreover , ventricular tachycardia was inducible in 81 % of patients with ischemic heart disease compared with only 50 % of those with nonischemic heart disease ( p less than 0.02 ) . thus , abnormalities in the spectra of signal-averaged ecgs were found in the majority of patients with ventricular fibrillation and were detectable even in those whose arrhythmia was not inducible by programmed stimulation . these results broaden the potential clinical application of noninvasive interrogation of signal-averaged ecgs to include the prospective identification of patients with ischemic or nonischemic heart disease prone to ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation . 
restenosis after directional coronary atherectomy : differences between primary atheromatous and restenosis lesions and influence of subintimal tissue resection . rates of restenosis were evaluated in 70 patients ( 74 lesions ) after successful directional coronary atherectomy . the extent of vascular tissue resection was correlated with restenosis rates for coronary ( n = 59 ) and vein bypass graft ( n = 15 ) lesions . after 6 months , the overall restenosis rate was 50 % ( 37 of 74 lesions ) ; it was 42 % ( 15 of 36 lesions ) when intima alone was resected , 50 % ( 7 of 14 lesions ) when media was resected and 63 % ( 15 of 24 lesions ) when adventitia was resected . subintimal tissue resection increased the restenosis rate for vein grafts ( 43 % with intimal resection versus 100 % with subintimal resection , p = 0.01 ) but not for coronary arteries ( 50 % versus 48 % ) . there was no overall difference in restenosis rates after atherectomy between primary lesions and restenosis lesions that occurred after balloon angioplasty ( 46 % versus 54 % ) . among postballoon angioplasty restenosis lesions , a higher rate of restenosis after atherectomy was found with subintimal than with intimal resection ( 78 % versus 32 % , p = 0.01 ) . tissues from patients undergoing a second atherectomy for restenosis after initial atherectomy ( n = 8 ) demonstrated neointimal hyperplasia that appeared histologically identical to restenotic tissue developing after balloon angioplasty ( n = 37 ) . these data suggest that the cellular response to directional coronary atherectomy is characterized by neointimal proliferation similar to that which may develop after balloon angioplasty . the extent of fibrous hyperplasia appears to be related to the depth of tissue resection in vein graft lesions and coronary artery restenosis lesions that occur after balloon angioplasty but not in primary atheromatous coronary artery lesions . 
reduction in incidence of inducible ventricular tachycardia after myocardial infarction by treatment with streptokinase during infarct evolution . the aim of this study was to determine whether intravenous streptokinase administered with or without oral aspirin to patients with evolving myocardial infarction reduces the inducibility of ventricular tachycardia at electrophysiologic study and thus the risk of sudden death in infarct survivors . of 159 patients randomized at westmead hospital to the multicenter second international study of infarct survival ( isis-2 ) after streptokinase and aspirin in acute myocardial infarction , 87 underwent electrophysiologic testing 6 to 28 days after infarction to determine their risk of subsequent ventricular arrhythmias ( streptokinase 20 patients ; aspirin 25 patients ; streptokinase and aspirin 21 patients ; both placebos 21 patients ) . patients who underwent electrophysiologic testing had similar clinical characteristics to those of patients who did not . the stimulation protocol comprised up to and including four extrastimuli applied to the right ventricular apex at twice diastolic threshold . an abnormal result was defined as ventricular tachycardia with a cycle length greater than or equal to 230 ms lasting greater than or equal to 10 s. ventricular tachycardia was inducible at electrophysiologic study in 8 patients who received placebo streptokinase , but in no patient who received active streptokinase ( 8 of 46 versus 0 of 41 ; p = 0.005 , fischer 's exact test ) . ventricular tachycardia was inducible in 4 patients who received aspirin therapy and 4 who did not ( 4 of 41 versus 4 of 46 ; p = ns ) . during a mean follow-up period of 39 + / - 9 months , there were no spontaneous episodes of ventricular tachycardia , ventricular fibrillation or witnessed sudden death in the streptokinase-treated group compared with three such events in the placebo-treated group ( p = 0.13 ) . when compared with placebo therapy , intravenous streptokinase substantially reduced the incidence of inducible ventricular tachycardia in infarct survivors . no similar benefit was attributable to aspirin therapy . 
effect of antiarrhythmic therapy on mortality in survivors of myocardial infarction with asymptomatic complex ventricular arrhythmias : basel antiarrhythmic study of infarct survival ( basis ) in view of the high risk of sudden cardiac death and the prognostic importance of complex ventricular ectopic activity , the effects of prophylactic antiarrhythmic treatment were investigated prospectively in patients with persisting asymptomatic complex arrhythmias after myocardial infarction . end points were total mortality and arrhythmic events ( sudden death , sustained ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation ) . of 1,220 consecutively screened survivors of myocardial infarction , 312 had lown class 3 or 4b arrhythmia on 24 h electrocardiographic recordings before hospital discharge and consented to the study . they were randomized to individualized antiarrhythmic treatment ( group 1 , n = 100 ) , treatment with low dose amiodarone , 200 mg/day ( group 2 , n = 98 ) or no antiarrhythmic therapy ( group 3 [ control group ] , n = 114 ) . during the 1 year follow-up period , 10 patients in group 1 died , as did 5 in group 2 and 15 in group 3 . on the basis of an intention to treat analysis , the probability of survival of patients given amiodarone was significantly greater than that of control patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . in addition , arrhythmic events were significantly reduced by amiodarone ( p less than 0.01 ) . these effects were less marked and not significant for individually treated patients ( group 1 ) . these findings suggest that low dose amiodarone decreases mortality in the 1st year after myocardial infarction in patients at high risk of sudden death . 
effects of nicardipine , a calcium antagonist , on myocardial salvage and high energy phosphate stores in reperfused myocardial injury . the current study determined the effectiveness of nicardipine , a 1,4-dihydropyridine calcium antagonist , in preserving reperfused myocardium in a cat model of temporary coronary occlusion and ascertained if replenishment of myocardial phosphate stores during reperfusion as defined by phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance ( nmr ) spectroscopy was indicative of salvage . twenty open chest , anesthetized cats were studied with use of a snare ligature around the proximal left anterior descending coronary artery , with a coil sutured to the epicardial surface overlying the distribution of the artery . peak areas of phosphocreatine , inorganic phosphate and adenosine triphosphate ( atp ) nmr signals were measured during 1 h of occlusion followed by 1.5 h of reperfusion . infarct size and jeopardy area were determined in vitro by simultaneous infusion of phthalocyanine blue dye and triphenyltetrazolium chloride into the aorta and the left anterior descending coronary artery , respectively , after 5 h of myocardial reperfusion . nicardipine-treated and control groups had similar jeopardy area values ( 41.2 + / - 1.6 % versus 47.4 + / - 3.1 % of the left ventricle ) , but infarct area was significantly reduced in the nicardipine-treated group ( 3.2 + / - 1.1 % versus 24.9 + / - 7.5 % of jeopardy area , p less than 0.01 ) . high energy phosphate compounds remained markedly altered during reperfusion in both groups . no significant improvement in phosphocreatine or inorganic phosphate recovery was observed in animals pretreated with nicardipine despite an 87 % reduction in infarct size . myocardial atp was greater during reperfusion in the nicardipine-treated compared with the control group ( average over initial 90 min of reperfusion 58 + / - 6 % versus 46 + / - 3 % of baseline values , p less than 0.05 ) , suggesting improved recovery of atp . however , the measured levels of high energy phosphate compounds during reperfusion and their ratios did not correlate with infarct size and thus were not predictive of myocardial salvage . 
hemodynamic efficacy of rapid saline infusion and dobutamine versus saline infusion alone in a model of cardiac rupture . despite recent reports describing survival after cardiac rupture , the effectiveness of circulatory support while awaiting definitive surgical treatment is controversial . to assess the efficacy of volume expansion and pharmacologic support in cardiac tamponade due to cardiac rupture , a model of hemorrhagic cardiac tamponade was developed and treatment with rapid saline infusion and dobutamine was compared with rapid saline infusion alone in 15 closed chest dogs . a right ventricular wound of reproducible size was produced by deflating an aortic valvuloplasty balloon that had previously been passed by way of the internal jugular vein into the pericardial space and through a stab wound in the right ventricular free wall . hemodynamic values were compared at baseline , during tamponade and after a rapid infusion ( 1 liter at 100 ml/min ) of either saline solution alone or saline solution plus dobutamine ( 20 micrograms/kg per min ) . atrial and pericardial pressures increased significantly in both groups . mean arterial pressure , cardiac output and stroke volume increased with combined saline and dobutamine infusion to values similar to those at baseline ( 91 + / - 19 % , 114 + / - 43 % and 94 + / - 37 % of baseline , respectively ) . in contrast , saline infusion alone caused a small increase in cardiac output but failed to significantly increase mean arterial pressure or stroke volume ( 76.8 + / - 14.2 % , 55 + / - 18 % and 51 + / - 17 % of baseline , respectively ) . combined rapid infusion of saline solution and dobutamine infusion has a more beneficial hemodynamic effect and may be more effective than rapid saline infusion alone in resuscitating patients with hemorrhagic cardiac tamponade due to cardiac rupture . 
alterations in endocardial vascular resistance after reperfusion in a low flow , high demand model of ischemia : effects of dipyridamole and web-2086 , a platelet-activating factor antagonist . to determine if alterations in regional coronary vascular resistance could occur in the type of myocardial ischemia present in severe angina pectoris , regional perfusion and function were studied in 35 conscious sedated dogs . a stenosis producing severe hypokinesia of the perfused segment was created for 2 h on the left anterior descending coronary artery and 10 episodes of 1 min of high demand ischemia ( atrial pacing at a rate sufficient to induce dyskinesia in the hypoperfused segment ) were superimposed before reperfusion . the dogs were randomized into three treatment groups : control ( n = 13 ) , dipyridamole ( n = 10 ) or web-2086 ( n = 12 ) , an antagonist of the effects of the endogenous platelet-activating factor . during stenosis , residual endocardial blood flow in the ischemic but nonnecrotic area averaged 0.72 + / - 0.14 , 0.38 + / - 0.13 and 0.68 + / - 0.17 ml/min per g in the control , web-2086 and dipyridamole groups , respectively . twenty-four hours after reperfusion , endocardial blood flow in the ischemic area was significantly lower in control dogs ( 1.04 + / - 0.15 ml/min per g ) than in dogs treated with web-2086 ( 1.44 + / - 0.28 ml/min per g ; p less than 0.03 ) or dipyridamole ( 3.00 + / - 0.83 ml/min per g ; p less than 0.01 ) . accordingly , in control dogs , endocardial coronary vascular resistance in the ischemic area was increased after reperfusion from 85 + / - 11 to 124 + / - 27 mm hg / ( ml/min per g ) ( p less than 0.05 ) after 24 h. in contrast , coronary vascular resistance in the ischemic area remained unchanged in dogs receiving web-2086 ( 77 + / - 8 to 79 + / - 9 mm hg / ( ml/min per g ) ; p = ns ) and it decreased significantly in dogs receiving dipyridamole ( 72 + / - 8 to 44 + / - 8 mm hg / ( ml/min per g ) ; p less than 0.01 ) . regional function after 24 h remained depressed in all three groups . these data indicate that low flow , high demand ischemia induces alterations in the subendocardial microvasculature . such alterations in regional coronary vascular resistance might play a role in several forms of ischemic heart disease such as in severe angina , but they appear susceptible to improvement by therapeutic interventions that influence granulocyte and platelet activation . 
effects of dipyridamole and aminophylline on hemodynamics , regional myocardial blood flow and thallium-201 washout in the setting of a critical coronary stenosis . experiments were performed to characterize the interaction of intravenous dipyridamole and aminophylline on thallium-201 transport kinetics , regional myocardial blood flow and systemic hemodynamics in the presence of a critical coronary artery stenosis . in 12 dogs with a critical left anterior descending coronary artery stenosis , arterial pressure decreased from a mean value ( + / - sem ) of 107 + / - 6 to 94 + / - 3 mm hg ( p less than 0.05 ) and distal left anterior descending artery pressure decreased from 70 + / - 7 to 55 + / - 4 mm hg ( p less than 0.05 ) after intravenous administration of dipyridamole ( 0.25 mg/kg body weight ) . in the left anterior descending perfusion zone , the endocardial/epicardial flow ratio decreased from 0.70 to 0.36 and the intrinsic thallium washout rate was significantly prolonged . intravenous aminophylline ( 5 mg/kg ) reversed the dipyridamole-induced systemic hypotension and transmural coronary steal and restored the thallium washout rate to baseline values . in six other dogs , aminophylline alone resulted in no alterations in systemic and coronary hemodynamics or regional myocardial blood flow . as expected , dipyridamole-induced vasodilation and coronary steal were prevented by aminophylline pretreatment . these data show that in a canine model of partial coronary stenosis , systemic hypotension , adverse regional flow effects ( coronary steal ) and prolonged thallium-201 washout consequent to intravenously administered dipyridamole are promptly reversed by intravenous aminophylline administration . aminophylline alone had no significant hemodynamic and coronary flow effects . this study provides further insight into the altered thallium kinetics occurring as a consequence of dipyridamole-induced vasodilation and suggests that the prompt reversal of symptoms and signs of ischemia with aminophylline in patients receiving intravenous dipyridamole for clinical imaging studies probably reflects the reversal of transmural coronary steal . 
early readmission of elderly patients with congestive heart failure . repetitive hospitalizations are a major health problem in elderly patients with chronic disease , accounting for up to one fourth of all inpatient medicare expenditures . congestive heart failure , one of the most common indications for hospitalization in the elderly , is also associated with a high incidence of early rehospitalization , but variables identifying patients at increased risk and an analysis of potentially remediable factors contributing to readmission have not previously been reported . we prospectively evaluated 161 patients 70 years or older that had been hospitalized with documented congestive heart failure . hospital mortality was 13 % ( n = 21 ) . among patients discharged alive , 66 ( 47 % ) were readmitted within 90 days . recurrent heart failure was the most common cause for readmission , occurring in 38 patients ( 57 % ) . other cardiac disorders accounted for five readmissions ( 8 % ) , and noncardiac illness led to readmission in 21 cases ( 32 % ) . factors predictive of an increased probability of readmission included a prior history of heart failure , four or more admissions within the preceding 8 years , and heart failure precipitated by an acute myocardial infarction or uncontrolled hypertension ( all p less than .05 ) . using subjective criteria , 25 first readmissions ( 38 % ) were judged possibly preventable , and 10 ( 15 % ) were judged probably preventable . factors contributing to preventable readmissions included noncompliance with medications ( 15 % ) or diet ( 18 % ) , inadequate discharge planning ( 15 % ) or follow-up ( 20 % ) , failed social support system ( 21 % ) , and failure to seek medical attention promptly when symptoms recurred ( 20 % ) . thus , early rehospitalization in elderly patients with congestive heart failure may be preventable in up to 50 % of cases , identification of high risk patients is possible shortly after admission , and further study of nonpharmacologic interventions designed to reduce readmission frequency is justified . 
sudden death associated with undiagnosed graves ' disease . hyperthyroidism may result in multiple symptoms attributable to an excess of thyroid hormone . we report a case of graves ' disease in association with sudden death in a previously healthy , undiagnosed young female . this case illustrates an unusual initial presentation of graves ' disease . 
the electrocardiogram in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . the electrocardiogram is often abnormal in patients who have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . the most frequent abnormalities are a rightward p-wave axis ( greater than or equal to 70 degrees ) and a rightward qrs axis ( greater than or equal to 90 degrees ) . in addition , low voltage in the limb leads , an s1s2s3 pattern , poor r-wave progression , a posterior-superior terminal qrs vector or other changes may be present . transient atrial and ventricular dysrhythmias are common . knowledge of the usual electrocardiographic manifestations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease enables the clinician to recognize uncharacteristic abnormalities , which often represent the effects of superimposed illnesses or drug toxicity . 
are blood pressure levels increasing in denmark ? the copenhagen city heart study is a prospective cardiovascular population study designed to evaluate the incidence of and risk factors for cardiovascular disease . a random population sample comprising approximately 20,000 individuals was invited to participate . blood pressure was measured , and information regarding the use of antihypertensive medication was collected in an initial survey during the period 1976-1978 ( attendance rate 74 % ) and from a second survey during the period 1981-1983 ( attendance rate 70 % ) . a significant increase in systolic and diastolic blood pressure between survey 1 and survey 2 was found among both men and women greater than 40 years of age and not using antihypertensive medication . the increase in blood pressure in the follow-up survey could not be explained by changes in methods , changes in the prescription of antihypertensive medication , or selection bias . factors associated with changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure were examined by multiple linear regression analysis . both increase in body mass index and increase in alcohol consumption were positively correlated with changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure , while use of antihypertensive medication , a high value of body mass index at survey 1 and a high level of education were negatively correlated with changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure . female sex and advanced age were also negatively correlated with changes in diastolic blood pressure . consumption of tobacco and alcohol , income and changes in consumption of tobacco were not significantly correlated with changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure . 
coronary artery disease in chinese males without hypercholesterolaemia the aim of this study was to determine the frequency of various metabolic risk factors for coronary artery disease ( cad ) in 246 male patients studied over a 2-year period . cad was diagnosed on the basis of a history indicative of angina pectoris , an electrocardiogram diagnostic of myocardial ischaemia , and a positive coronary angiogram . thirty-eight per cent of this population had diabetes , hypertension or both . of the remaining individuals , 39 % had a plasma cholesterol concentration greater than 5.2 mmol l-1 , whereas 23 % had a cholesterol concentration less than 5.2 mmol l-1 . plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels of a non-smoking subset of those subjects with a total cholesterol concentration less than 5.2 mmol l-1 were compared with values of a matched group of individuals who did not have significant vessel disease as revealed by angiography . the results of these investigations indicated that patients with cad and a plasma cholesterol concentration less than 5.2 mmol l-1 exhibited an increase in plasma triglyceride concentration and a decrease in plasma hdl-cholesterol concentration . since these subjects were not diabetic , hypertensive or hypercholesterolaemic , it is suggested that the observed changes in triglyceride and hdl metabolism made a major contribution to the cad in these individuals . 
ischaemic heart disease among men in norway during the period 1966-1985 : two counties with different mortality time trends . we have examined regional differences in mortality from ischaemic heart disease , including sudden , unexpected death ( ihd/sud ) , among norwegian men aged 30-69 years , during the period 1966-1985 . mortality time trends were considered . the two counties with the most widely differing ihd/sud mortality time trends were rogaland and oppland . rogaland , located in south-western norway , experienced a 24.1 % ihd/sud mortality rate decrease between 1966-1970 and 1981-1985 , while oppland , in central south-eastern norway , experienced a mortality rate increase of 12.4 % . marked regional differences within these counties were found . the highest ihd/sud mortality rate increase occurred in rural areas of oppland . urban areas of rogaland had sharply decreasing rates . knowledge of such regional mortality differences could provide useful information regarding aetiological factors and serve as a basis for preventive measures and health-care planning . 
elevation of skeletal muscle isoform of serum creatine kinase in heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia . serum creatine kinase ( ck ) is an important adjunct in the diagnosis of myocardial infarction or in monitoring for the side-effects of drugs . we report elevation of ck in patients with untreated heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia ( fh ) with no evidence of myocardial infarction . of a group of 30 patients , 60 % had elevated ck values on one occasion . in 40 % of patients elevated ck activity was observed on most occasions . this was not related to exercise or previous lipid-lowering therapy . these observations are of importance in view of the potential for misdiagnosis of myocardial infarction or premature withdrawal of lipid-lowering therapy . 
nisoldipine -- effects on the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system and catecholamines . studies in normotensive and hypertensive subjects . we have studied the effects of nisoldipine , a new calcium channel antagonist , on the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system and on plasma catecholamines in 10 healthy volunteers and in 29 patients with primary essential hypertension . of these 29 patients , thirteen had normal renin hypertension ( nrh ) , and sixteen had low renin hypertension ( lrh ) . eight healthy volunteers received placebo . short-term ( 24 h ) effects were measured in all subjects and long-term ( up to 6 months ) effects of 10-40 mg nisoldipine daily were monitored in the 29 hypertensive patients . plasma renin activity ( pra ) increased slightly , although this rise was not statistically significant , 1 h after the first dose of nisoldipine in both normotensive subjects and hypertensive patients . after 2 h pra had returned to the pre-treatment level . no change in pra was observed after administration of placebo . plasma angiotensin ii ( aii ) levels showed considerable variation after nisoldipine administration . plasma aldosterone levels decreased despite the increase in pra and aii concentrations . however , no concomitant reduction in urinary aldosterone excretion was observed . plasma noradrenaline levels increased slightly 2-4 h after administration of nisoldipine , and decreased again thereafter , but no changes in plasma adrenaline levels were seen . nisoldipine had no long-term effects on the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system or on serum catecholamine levels . 
components of delay time in suspected acute myocardial infarction with particular emphasis on patient delay . two hundred and thirty-four patients admitted to a coronary care unit ( ccu ) were interviewed a few days after arrival in hospital to determine reasons for patient delay and the various components of total delay time from onset of symptoms to arrival in ccu . of the three major components of delay , decision time ( time from onset of symptoms to decision to go to hospital ) , and hospital procedure time ( time from arrival in hospital to arrival in the ccu ) , were of the same magnitude , 1 h 15 min and 1 h 30 min ( median ) , whereas the median time for preparation and transportation to hospital was somewhat shorter , being 45 min . decision time appeared to be similar in patients with confirmed and non-confirmed acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) and was not associated with intensity of pain or infarct size . half of the patients hesitated to go to hospital , which resulted in a prolonged decision delay ( 3 h ) . it is concluded that patient indecision to seek medical help is the most important reason for delay in hospital arrival in patients with suspected ami . 
retroperitoneal fibrosis after surgery for aortic aneurysm in a patient with periarteritis nodosa : successful treatment with corticosteroids . a 54-year-old man with hepatitis b virus-related periarteritis nodosa developed retroperitoneal fibrosis with bilateral hydronephrosis 2.5 months after placement of an aortobifemoral prosthesis for abdominal aortic aneurysm . retroperitoneal fibrosis disappeared after treatment with corticosteroids . this observation is interesting in the light of the hypothesis that retroperitoneal fibrosis is caused by vasculitis . 
reliability of death certificate diagnoses . consistency between death certificates and clinical records from 5 general hospitals in kuwait was studied for 470 deaths with the following underlying or associated causes : hypertensive ( hyp ) , ischaemic heart diseases ( ihd ) , cerebrovascular diseases ( cvd ) and diabetes mellitus ( dm ) . direct causes were not considered since they are of little interest analytically . only deaths with definite or most probable ascertainment were included . one cardiologist , who was provided with the who criteria and relevant documents on death certification , independently reviewed the records . to test the reviewer 's bias and the reliability of his judgement , an adjudication process was effected by having one senior cardiologist re-review a random subsample of 140 records . the two reviewers showed good agreement . specific diagnoses criteria for deciding the underlying cause of death in multiple morbid conditions by the reviewer were followed . due to possible reviewer bias , we aimed at measuring the difference between initial certifiers and the reviewer rather than measuring the diagnostic accuracy of initial certifiers in reference to the reviewer . the agreement index kappa showed poor agreement between original and revised certificates . the original certificates under-estimated cvd as an underlying cause of death by 69.2 % , dm by 60 % , ihd by 33.5 % and hyp by 31.8 % in our sample . associated causes were also consistently under-estimated by initial certifiers as compared with the reviewer . this bias calls for basing mortality statistics in kuwait on hospital death committees ' reports rather than on initial certifier death certificates , use of multiple-causes of death instead of one underlying cause and adequate training of the medical profession on the value and process of death certification . 
prevalence of raynaud phenomenon in the adult population of south carolina . a prevalence estimate for raynaud phenomenon among adult residents of south carolina was based on data obtained from respondents in a statewide health survey , followed by face-to-face interviews and clinical screening for raynaud phenomenon , using a screening procedure developed by the authors . the survey obtained 5246 personal interviews from a probability sample of over 3000 households , and 494 survey subjects participated in the clinical screening . the prevalence estimates and their standard errors were computed using survey case weights , design-based estimation , and logistic modelling techniques . the prevalence of raynaud phenomenon among adult residents of south carolina was determined to be 3.5 % , with a standard error of 0.6 % . prevalence was higher for females ( 4.3 % , se = 0.7 % ) than for males ( 2.7 % , se = 0.6 % ) . these figures are much lower than most estimates in the existing literature on raynaud phenomenon . 
an inconsistent relationship between insulin and blood pressure in three pacific island populations . the evidence linking insulin to blood pressure is controversial , and results for groups similarly categorized by body mass , glucose tolerance and hypertensive status are often contradictory . we have investigated the relationship in three population-based samples of micronesian ( nauru ) , polynesian ( western samoa ) and melanesian ( new caledonia ) pacific islanders , who are known to be susceptible to obesity , non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) , hyperinsulinaemia and hypertension . after controlling for age and body mass index ( bmi ) , mean fasting and 2-hr ( post 75 g glucose ) insulin levels were not significantly different between hypertensive and non-hypertensive subjects , in any population or glucose tolerance sub-group , excepting 2-hr insulin in new caledonians with normal glucose tolerance . similarly , there were no strong trends for a higher prevalence of hypertension amongst those with insulin levels in the upper quartile of the distribution of each population , although it was apparent in some bmi/glucose tolerance sub-groups of two populations . multiple linear regression analyses also showed an inconsistent and where present , weak , independent association between insulin and blood pressure in models predicting both systolic and diastolic blood pressure . we therefore conclude that the hypothesis implicating insulin as a major determinant of blood pressure and as the pathophysiological link between obesity , niddm and hypertension is not strongly supported either by the literature or the present data . 
alcohol consumption and blood pressure : a comparison of native japanese to american men . we compared the cross-sectional association of alcohol consumption with blood pressure in 810 japanese men ( jm ) living in tokyo and 946 white men ( wm ) living in new york . mean systolic ( jm and wm , p less than 0.001 ) and diastolic blood pressure ( jm , p less than 0.002 ; wm , p less than 0.001 ) were associated with alcohol consumption in both groups . compared to abstainers , the heaviest drinkers had the highest systolic ( jm , p = 0.001 ; wm , p less than 0.01 ) and diastolic ( jm , p less than 0.002 ; wm , p less than 0.05 ) blood pressures . the relation of blood pressure to alcohol intake was j-shaped in the americans , but linear in the japanese . exploratory analyses revealed that the j-shape may have been due to under-reporting of heavy alcohol ingestion by american abstainers . when abstainers were excluded , the relationships were similar in both the american and japanese . the positive association between blood pressure and alcohol consumption persisted after adjustment for age , cigarette smoking , use of antihypertensive medications , body mass index , heart rate , abdominal skinfold thickness , hematocrit , fasting blood glucose , serum uric acid levels and urinary sodium/potassium ratio . alcohol use was also related to prevalence of hypertension . these findings confirm the presence of an independent association between alcohol intake and blood pressure in both jm and wm and suggest that , despite differences in the metabolism of alcohol , the relation of alcohol consumption to blood pressure is similar in both nationalities . 
orthostatic hypotension in human immunodeficiency virus infection may be the result of generalized autonomic nervous system dysfunction . we used an autonomic nervous system ( ans ) testing battery to determine if generalized ans dysfunction was present in five human immunodeficiency virus-positive ( hiv + ) patients presenting with severe orthostatic hypotension ( oh ) . all five patients had abnormal ans testing , which demonstrated both sympathetic and parasympathetic defects , i.e. , generalized ans dysfunction . treatment with fludrocortisone effectively reversed the oh in four of the five patients . the oh was transient in these four patients . we believe it is important to recognize that oh may be the result of generalized ans dysfunction in hiv-positive patients and that it can be effectively treated . 
restricted dose and duration of corticosteroid treatment in patients with polymyalgia rheumatica and temporal arteritis . to analyze whether corticosteroids in low doses during limited time periods could be safely used in the treatment of patients with polymyalgia rheumatica ( pmr ) or temporal arteritis ( ta ) the records of 91 patients diagnosed between 1980 and 1987 were reviewed . the mean initial prednisolone dose was in patients with pmr 18 mg/day and the mean duration of treatment was 17 months . in patients with ta the mean initial dose was 31 mg/day and the mean duration of treatment 16 months , and in all the corticosteroid treatment was terminated within 24 months . patients with coexisting ta and pmr demanded longer treatment compared to patients with either ta or pmr and thus 18/91 patients were treated for more than 2 years . no visual or neurological complications occurred after treatment with corticosteroids had been initiated . our study indicates that most patients with pmr or ta can be treated safely with an initial prednisolone dose of 10 mg given twice daily . with few exceptions corticosteroid treatment can be terminated within 24 months . 
severe cerebral and systemic necrotizing vasculitis developing during pregnancy in a case of systemic lupus erythematosus . we describe a fatal case of systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) developing cerebral and systemic necrotizing vasculitis during pregnancy . the patient was discovered to have sle at 14 weeks ' gestation . although the symptoms disappeared without treatment with corticosteroid in the 2nd trimester , she presented with meningoencephalitis due to vasculitis in the 3rd trimester . polyarteritis nodosa ( pan ) - like necrotizing vasculitis of the small muscular arteries and arterioles , with acute and healing lesions in the leptomeninges , brain parenchyma and visceral organs was observed at postpartum autopsy . pan-like vasculitis in the central nervous system is quite rare in sle . this case is also suggestive in terms of the influence of pregnancy on the activity of sle . 
a lethal complication of papaverine-induced priapism . a large series of patients was treated for impotence with intracorporeal injections of papaverine and phentolamine with no major complications and no deaths reported . we report on a 45-year-old black man with advanced multiple sclerosis who died after such therapy . when the first self-administered injection of phentolamine and papaverine failed to produce an adequate erection the patient injected a second dose that resulted in priapism and death of massive pulmonary embolism . 
