the role of bacterial adherence in otitis media with effusion . adherence of nontypable haemophilus influenzae and streptococcus pneumoniae to nasopharyngeal epithelial cells was investigated in vitro . both strains had higher affinity to the epithelial cells of children than to those of adults . in children , the adherence was significantly greater in patients with otitis media with effusion than in normal subjects . secretory iga in nasopharyngeal secretions was found to have antibody activity against the bacteria . adherence of both bacteria was significantly smaller in the group having secretory iga antibody activity than in the group having no activity . these results suggest that bacterial adherence to the nasopharynx may play an important role in the pathogenesis of otitis media with effusion in children , and that secretory iga in nasopharyngeal secretions may be related to the decrease of adherence . 
induction chemotherapy with a new regimen alternating cisplatin , fluorouracil with mitomycin , hydroxyurea and bleomycin in carcinomas of nasopharynx or other sites of the head and neck region . sixty-six patients with locally advanced ( stages iii and iv ) carcinoma of the head and neck were treated with three cycles of induction chemotherapy , consisting of cisplatin , fluorouracil ( fu ) infusion , bleomycin , mitomycin , and hydroxyurea , followed by radiotherapy and/or surgery . there were 48 men and 18 women with a median age of 55 years ( range , 18 to 75 years ) and karnofsky performance status of 80 ( range , 40 to 90 ) . primary site was nasopharynx ( 28 patients ) , followed by larynx ( 12 ) and others ( 26 ) . forty-one ( 62 % ) patients were presented with stage iv disease . the response rate to induction chemotherapy was 27 % complete response , 50 % partial response , 20 % stable disease , and 3 % progressive disease . there was no significant difference in response rate between patients with cancer of nasopharynx or other sites ( p greater than 0.1 ) . survival was 61 % at 24 months . patients with cancer of nasopharynx had a better survival than those with other primaries ( p = 0.033 ) . toxicities from chemotherapy included alopecia ( 73 % ) , nausea/vomiting ( 66 % ) , leukopenia ( 54 % ) , stomatitis ( 36 % ) , anemia ( 32 % ) , thrombocytopenia ( 16 % ) , and diarrhea ( 9 % ) . grade iv toxicity was not observed . induction chemotherapy with this new regimen resulted in a high response rate but may not be superior to cisplatin and fu alone . it can be safely combined with radiotherapy as a potentially curative therapy in squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck . chemotherapy followed by radiation therapy may yield survival similar to radical surgery in laryngeal and other head and neck cancers . 
relationship of 4f2 antigen with local growth and metastatic potential of squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx . the 4f2 antigen is a cell-membrane glycoprotein which arises early in the g0-g1 phases of the cell cycle . this molecule is present in all established human cell lines and most malignant human cells . the authors used an indirect immunophosphatase method to study 50 squamous cell carcinomas of the larynx and ten lymph-node metastases , corresponding to six primary tumors , for 4f2 expression . the tumors showed several patterns of 4f2 staining which were correlated with different behaviors and prognoses of the neoplasms . three different patterns ( no staining , peripheral staining , and diffuse 4f2 expression ) are described as are their relationships with metastatic behavior of the carcinomas . tumors with metastases were found only in the third group ( p = 0.0001 ) . these results led to the following conclusions : ( 1 ) the 4f2 antigen is present in squamous cell carcinomas ; ( 2 ) its distribution reflects the tumor-spreading pattern ; and ( 3 ) it correlates with differentiation and metastatic behavior . 
pyoderma gangrenosum complicating felty 's syndrome . the case of a 54-year-old woman with felty 's syndrome whose course was complicated by mucocutaneous lesions clinically typical of pyoderma gangrenosum is described . necrotizing sinusitis and saddle nose deformity were distinctive clinical features . lymphocytic vasculitis and rheumatoid nodule formation observed within panniculus at the base of a cutaneous lesion and in a nasal mucosal lesion were unexpected histopathologic findings . 
conservation surgery for glomus jugulare tumors : the value of early diagnosis . the results of lateral cranial base surgery for glomus jugulare tumors are gratifying when normal anatomy and function can be preserved . the goal of conservation surgery is to preserve normal ear anatomy and cranial nerve function . in general , conservation surgery is tumor-size dependent . thus , excellent states of functional recovery depend upon accurate early diagnosis . this paper reviews the technical aspects of transtemporal conservation skull base tumor surgery while also reviewing our experience with nearly 100 glomus jugulare patients . adjuvants to early diagnosis will be highlighted from a review of presenting symptoms , clinical signs , and related diagnosis . our objective is to provoke a high index of suspicion in physicians charged with the responsibility of diagnosing these tumors . diagnostic guidelines are proposed . 
surgery for sinusitis and aspirin triad . an 11-year retrospective study was conducted to evaluate the surgical treatment of sinusitis in aspirin-triad patients . twenty-five patients were selected for surgery when their sinus disease and asthma progressed despite intense medical treatment . sixteen patients had radiographic evidence of severe ethmoid disease , and their initial surgical procedures were limited ( i.e. , bilateral intranasal ethmoidectomies ) . of these 16 patients , 6 required subsequent surgery for recurrent sinusitis . nine of the 25 patients had radiographic evidence of severe antral , as well as ethmoid , disease . their initial surgical procedures were radical , i.e. , bilateral caldwell-luc operations with intranasal and transantral sphenoethmoidectomies . none of these 9 patients required further surgical treatment for control . this review indicates that if antral and sphenoid disease are detected in association with ethmoid involvement , a radical surgical approach is the operation of choice . 
lidocaine in the middle ear . anesthesia of the ear canal is produced by injection of lidocaine hydrochloride into the skin of the lateral external ear canal . ear canal , tympanic membrane , and middle ear surgeries are performed with this injection . the fluid found in the middle ear during tympanotomy was collected and analyzed . the percentage of lidocaine in the fluid was calculated by an enzyme immunoassay technique . fifteen surgical cases were undertaken in which perilymphatic fluid in the middle ear would not be suspected , such as tympanotomy for otosclerosis . lidocaine was found in all middle ears in which there was sufficient fluid to collect . the authors question the validity of using the presence of clear fluid in the middle ear , even with reaccumulation , as the sole criterion for identifying perilymph and cerebrospinal fluid . 
imaging of pharyngeal and laryngeal carcinomas with indium-111-labeled monoclonal anti-cea antibodies . localization of primary tumors , metastases , or recurrences in 13 consecutive patients with histological verification of squamous cell or adenocarcinoma was made with radioimmunodetection using monoclonal radiolabeled anti-cea antibody . all surgical specimens stained immunohistochemically , except one , were positive for cea . of the known 19 tumor sites 17 were visualized in antibody scans . there were two positive findings that did not prove to be positive during 12 month follow-up . the scintigram findings did not correlate with cea serum concentrations that , with one exception , were normal in all patients . 
stapedotomy technique and results : ten years ' experience and comparative study with stapedectomy . fifty of the 810 patients who underwent stapedotomy for otosclerosis from 1969 through 1988 were randomly chosen for follow-up of at least 5 years . most of the patients ( 65 % ) had follow-up of 10 years after stapedotomy , but another 50 patients who underwent stapedectomy had follow-ups of longer than 10 years . in 50 patients , stapedectomy under local anesthesia was performed by removal of the footplate of the stapes , using an endaural incision , and covering the oval window with gelfoam . in the other 50 patients , stapedotomy was performed under general anesthesia , using an endopreauricular incision , making a small hole in the footplate , and covering the hole only with blood from the surgical area . although both groups showed improvement in hearing after the operation , the air-bone gap in the stapedotomy group was significantly better than that in the stapedectomy group . the use of the endopreauricular incision under general anesthesia was preferable to endaural incision under local anesthesia because the operative field was wider , more convenient for the surgeon , and conducive to patient safety . there were no significant complications in either group . 
endoscopic laser surgery for early glottic carcinoma : a clinical and experimental study . the purpose of this study is to define the indications for using the co2 laser for the treatment of early glottic cancer . for this purpose , 52 consecutive laser resections of tis to t2 vocal cord carcinomas were studied prospectively . in addition , laser resection was performed in eight human cadaver larynges , which were then examined histologically using whole organ sections . both tumor size and tumor location had important influences on tumor resectability by laser . all of the tis , 78 % of t1 , and one of four t2 carcinomas were successfully treated by laser surgery alone . of the 10 carcinomas involving the anterior commissure , only four could completely be resected with the laser ; of these four , two recurred in the anterior commissure . this finding is corroborated by the histologic study , which clearly shows that anterior commissure resection poses problems . the only laser resection complication of early glottic cancer was persistent hoarseness in one third of the patients . it is concluded that co2 laser resection is a safe and effective alternative treatment for patients with tis and t1 glottic carcinoma , provided the anterior commissure is free of tumor . 
gentamicin iontophoresis in the treatment of bacterial otitis externa in the guinea pig model . pseudomonas otitis externa is one of the most common infections treated by otolaryngologists . infections induced in 30 guinea pigs appeared similar to that seen in humans . the ears were then placed into four treatment groups : group a , which received a single cleaning ; group b , which received a single cleaning followed by gentamicin drops 4 times daily ; group c , which received a single cleaning followed by a single gentamicin iontophoresis treatment ; and group d , the control group , which received no treatment . infections were analyzed by grading edema , purulence , and erythema . an average of 10.2 days was required for control group to return to normal appearance . groups a , b , and c had mean resolution times of 5.9 , 4.7 , and 4.3 days , respectively . gentamicin iontophoresis appears to be promising , with results as good as drop therapy in otitis externa in the guinea pig model . 
an improved stent method for choanal atresia repair . short intranasal stents secured sublabially have a number of advantages . they provide secure fixation without an external ligature across the columella . the short length of the stents allows them to sit only in the operative area where the atretic plate had been removed . this lessens the chance of intranasal syechiae formation and eliminates the possibility of erosion in the anterior septal and nasal alar region from pressure exerted by a stent . since the stents do not protrude from the nose , they can not be grasped by infants or young children and are not visible externally . school-aged children who have undergone repair of a unilateral choanal atresia can attend school without having to suffer the embarrassment of being teased about a tube protruding from the nose . when compared with other stenting methods , the posterior stent is more secure and less likely to become dislodged . 
understanding dizziness . how to decipher this nonspecific symptom . dizziness is a common but often nonspecific symptom . through careful history taking and physical examination , primary care physicians can usually determine the type of sensation ( vertigo or light-headedness ) and its source . although most causes of dizziness are benign , disorders of the central nervous system tend to be ominous and require immediate referral to a specialist . 
cervical lymph node metastasis : assessment of radiologic criteria . to estimate the accuracy of different radiologic criteria used to detect cervical lymph node metastasis in patients with head and neck carcinoma , seven different characteristics of 2,719 lymph nodes in 71 neck dissection specimens from 55 patients were assessed . three lymph node diameters , their location , their number , the presence of a tumor , and the amount of necrosis and fatty metaplasia were recorded . the minimal diameter in the axial plane was found to be the most accurate size criterion for predicting lymph node metastasis . a minimal axial diameter of 10 mm was determined to be the most effective size criterion . the size criterion for lymph nodes in the subdigastric region was 1 mm larger ( 11 mm ) . groups of three or more borderline nodes were proved to increase the sensitivity but did not significantly decrease the specificity . radiologically detectable necrosis ( 3 mm or larger ) was found only in tumorous nodes and was present in 74 % of the positive neck dissection specimens . shape was not a valuable criterion for the radiologic assessment of the cervical lymph node status . 
three-dimensional reconstructed mr imaging of the inner ear . the three-dimensional fourier transform fast imaging with steady precession ( fisp ) technique was used to obtain high-resolution magnetic resonance ( mr ) images of the temporal bone region and to generate three-dimensional reconstructed images of the inner ear . the three-dimensional reconstructed images of the inner ear were directly synthesized from two-dimensional images of the temporal bone region by means of an external processing computer . with use of three-dimensional reconstructed images and stereoscopic observations , structures inside the temporal bone region and the positional relationship among them were easily recognized . these structures are difficult to demonstrate with two-dimensional images . this three-dimensional method was also shown to be useful for recognition of disease and anatomic malformations in the temporal bone region . 
sphenochoanal polyps : evaluation with ct and mr imaging . a sphenochoanal polyp is a solitary mass of low attenuation on computed tomographic ( ct ) scans that arises from the sphenoid sinus and extends through the sphenoid ostium , across the sphenoethmoid recess , and into the choana ( the boundary between the nasal cavity and nasopharynx ) . more often , however , a choanal polyp is an antrochoanal polyp , which arises from the maxillary antrum , protrudes through the middle meatus , extends into the nasal cavity , and continues back to the choana . contiguous axial or coronal magnetic resonance and ct images help clearly differentiate the rare sphenochoanal polyp from the more common antrochoanal polyp . the sinus of origin is important to identify , as the surgical approach depends on the target sinus . 
relationship between asthma and seasonal allergic rhinitis in schoolchildren . the relationship between sensitization to common allergens and the development of asthma and seasonal allergic rhinitis ( sar ) was investigated in a total of 419 schoolchildren in a farming community where allergens of both dermatophagoides farinae ( df ) and orchard grass ( og ) pollen predominate . twelve subjects ( 2.9 % ) were found to have asthma and 35 subjects ( 8.4 % ) sar . there was no significant association between occurrences of asthma and sar . the incidence of asthma correlated with df-specific ige levels but not with og-specific ige levels , whereas that of sar correlated with og-specific ige levels but not with df-specific ige levels . no significant correlation was detected between ige antibody levels against df and og . these results suggest that asthma occurs independently of sar . 
fat myringoplasty in the guinea pig . fat myringoplasty is a simple office technique for repairing tympanic membrane perforations . it involves wedging a piece of fat from the ear lobule into the perforation . a search of the literature failed to reveal any controlled studies on the efficacy of this method , which may allow patients to avoid more invasive procedures . controlled perforations in guinea pig tympanic membranes were treated with fat myringoplasties , paper patches , or no intervention . four weeks following the procedures , ears were examined and photographed under the microscope and studied histologically . the fat myringoplasty healing rate exceeded the rates of both the control and paper-patch groups . results were stratified with respect to location and size of perforations . the results and histological studies suggest that controlled studies in humans are warranted . 
otolaryngologic management of patients with subdural empyema . from 1979 to 1988 , 17 patients presented to duke university medical center for treatment of subdural empyema . empyemas were caused by sinusitis in 53 % of the patients and by otitis media in 12 % . none of those with otologic causes required mastoid drainage , while all patients with sinus infections required sinus drainage . external frontoethmoidectomies were associated with a lower incidence of frontoethmoid re-exploration ( p = 0.048 ) , and antrostomies with a lower incidence of maxillary re-exploration ( p = 0.111 ) , than were more limited drainage procedures . sinus drainage performed simultaneously with neurosurgical drainage reduced the incidence of sinus re-exploration ( p = 0.167 ) , neurosurgical reexploration ( p = 0.048 ) , and length of hospitalization ( p = 0.020 ) . 
rapid sequence treatment of advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the upper aerodigestive tract : a pilot study . a review of the literature suggested that prolonged treatment time may lessen the probability of cure for patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the upper aerodigestive tract . to shorten treatment time , rapid sequence treatment ( rst ) was devised in which chemotherapy , surgery , and irradation were administered in a total treatment time of 8 weeks . twelve patients were treated and followed 3 years or longer . medical complications were minor . osteonecrosis occurred in each of the first five patients and was the only major complication of the protocol . surgical techniques were modified , and no additional patient developed osteonecrosis . no patient developed local or regional recurrence . two patients developed distant metastases and three other patients developed second primaries . absolute survival was 50 % . rapid sequence treatment is an aggressive and potentially hazardous protocol that yielded encouraging results in this pilot study . 
monothermal differential caloric testing in patients with meniere 's disease . the monothermal differential caloric test allows determination of vestibular recruitment and decruitment , variables which may help discriminate peripheral from central vestibular lesions . previous reports indicated a strong association between vestibular recruitment and meniere 's disease . this study examined patients having unilateral meniere 's disease . nystagmus beat frequency ( nbf ) and slow-component velocity ( scv ) responses were recorded by electronystagmography ( eng ) . electronystagmographic findings showing unilateral dysfunction were present in 54 % of patients by slow-component velocity and in 31 % by nystagmus beat frequency . unilateral hypofunction was the most frequent lateralizing eng finding . absolute vestibular recruitment occurred in less than 10 % of patients but relative recruitment was found in nearly 20 % of patients . slow-component velocity had higher sensitivity than nystagmus beat frequency , with excellent clinical concordance . monothermal caloric testing as described in this study best detects peripheral vestibular disease in meniere 's patients using slow-component velocity to determine unilateral hypofunction and relative vestibular recruitment . 
paranasal sinus bony anatomic variations and mucosal abnormalities : ct analysis for endoscopic sinus surgery . coronal plane computerized tomographic ( ct ) scanning has dramatically improved the imaging of paranasal sinus anatomy as compared to sinus radiographs . increasingly , subtle bony anatomic variations and mucosal abnormalities of this region are being detected . data regarding the " background " prevalence of these findings are needed to determine their clinical relevance . a detailed analysis of coronal plane ct scans of the paranasal sinuses obtained in 202 consecutively imaged patients was conducted . special attention was directed toward identifying bony anatomic variations and mucosal abnormalities . anatomic variations studied included pneumatization of the middle turbinate , paradoxical curvature of the middle turbinate , haller 's cells , and pneumatization of the uncinate process . such bony anatomic variations were detected in 131 ( 64.9 % ) of 202 patients and were found with a similar frequency in patients scanned for sinus complaints and in those scanned for nonsinus reasons . mucosal abnormalities were detected in 168 ( 83.2 % ) of 202 patients . for those patients scanned during the evaluation of sinus-like complaints , mucosal abnormalities were noted in 153 ( 92.2 % ) of 166 cases , and were predominantly detected in the anterior ethmoid region . for patients scanned during nonsinus evaluations , mucosal abnormalities were detected in 15 ( 41.7 % ) of 36 cases , without predilection for the anterior ethmoid region . discussion regarding the prevalence and clinical significance of paranasal sinus bony anatomic variations and mucosal abnormalities is included as a guide to assist the otolaryngologist and/or radiologist in the evaluation of coronal sinus ct scans . 
whole-blood filterability in sudden deafness . sixteen patients with sudden deafness ( sd ) , diagnosed on the basis of a battery of audiometric tests , but with no other medical or surgical pathology requiring drug treatment , underwent monitoring of their hemorheological profiles to see whether disturbances in the microcirculation could be linked to sd . plasma viscosity , the filterabilities , ( using a low-shear positive pressure system ) through 5-microns-diameter pore nuclepore filters , of whole blood and red and unfractionated white cells were monitored in 16 sd patients and 32 controls matched for age , sex and socioeconomic status . whole blood filterability and the filterability of the red blood cells were significantly impaired in the sd patients , which suggests that alterations in the microcirculation are linked , in some way , to sudden deafness . 
molecular pathologic study of human papillomavirus infection in inverted papilloma and squamous cell carcinoma of the nasal cavities and paranasal sinuses . nasal inverted papilloma is a rare benign tumor occasionally associated with squamous cell carcinoma . to determine the etiological role of human papillomavirus in inverted papilloma , and to clarify the relationship between human papillomavirus and malignant transformation of this benign tumor , we retrospectively analyzed inverted papillomas from 26 patients , 7 of whom had squamous cell carcinoma . we used an immunohistochemical method and molecular pathologic techniques , or dot-blot hybridization of dna extracted from paraffin-embedded tissues , in situ hybridization , and polymerase chain reaction . human papillomavirus was detected in 5 of 26 patients ( 19 % ) , 3 patients with human papillomavirus 11 and 2 patients with human papillomavirus 16 . the latter 2 patients had inverted papillomas associated with squamous cell carcinoma . we speculate that human papillomavirus may be related to the malignant transformation of inverted papillomas . 
neurotologic findings in basilar migraine . treatment of a patient with otologic symptoms and associated migraine-like headache presents the otolaryngologist with formidable problems . although clinical practice and scientific publications recognize their frequent association , relationships have yet to be well defined . this study seeks to add order to disarray by delineating symptoms and signs of a clearly identified group of migraine patients . fifty patients with well-defined basilar migraine underwent a thorough neurotologic examination , as well as comprehensive auditory and vestibular testing . patients were selected from 5880 patients seen over a 2-year period and were prospectively entered into the study after detailed questionnaires and testing were completed for each patient . the most common symptoms found were dysequilibrium , phonophobia , and head pressure . the most common signs were positional nystagmus , low-frequency hearing loss , abnormal loudness discomfort level , and an abnormality on caloric examination . advanced vestibular testing showed abnormal amplitude scaling , abnormal toes-down pertubation , and an abnormal sway ( condition 6 ) on dynamic posturography . there was frequently an asymmetry on computerized rotation . the author concludes that the majority of patients have subtle findings on testing , but a few have severe peripheral injury due to the basilar migraine . findings are consistent with the theory that basilar migraine is a central nervous system maladaptation syndrome which creates otoneurologic symptoms and , in a small percentage of cases , may injure the peripheral end-organ . 
stridor : intracranial pathology causing postextubation vocal cord paralysis . during an 18-month period in a pediatric intensive care unit , nine patients with vocal cord paralysis were identified using flexible bronchoscopy . when tracheally extubated , each child was found to have stridor . the children ranged in age from 17 days to 5 1/2 years . two patients had unilateral paralysis , but neither required tracheostomy . seven patients displayed bilateral abductor vocal cord paralysis . of these , six patients required tracheostomy . surgical injury to the recurrent laryngeal nerve was the probable cause in two patients . the other seven patients had neurologic disorders with documented or suspected increases of intracranial pressure . four of the seven patients with bilateral abductor vocal cord paralysis regained cord mobility within 4 months . both children with unilateral cord paralysis have no stridor and vocalize well 1 year later . cord paralysis in the setting of intracranial hypertension probably results from compression or ischemia of the vagus nerve before it exits the skull . early visualization of the larynx should be done in patients who become stridulous when extubated , especially those with prior thoracic procedures or with neurologic disorders associated with intracranial hypertension . 
bacteremia with otitis media . to investigate the occurrence and outcome of bacteremia associated with otitis media , charts were reviewed from patients who were 3 to 36 months of age , had temperatures greater than or equal to 39 degrees c , and were diagnosed with isolated clinical otitis media . a total of 2982 patients were identified . blood cultures were obtained from 1666 ( 56 % ) . of the 1666 patients , who had blood drawn for cultures , 50 ( 3.0 % ) had bacteremia . these included 39 with streptococcus pneumoniae , 4 with haemophilus influenzae , 2 with neisseria meningitidis , 3 with salmonella species , and 2 with staphylococcus aureus . the incidence of bacteremia increased at higher temperatures , being 1.9 % at temperatures less than or equal to 40 degrees c and 5.0 % at temperatures greater than 40 degrees c. younger children were more likely to have bacteremia ; 3.7 % less than or equal to 12 months of age , 2.4 % 13 to 24 months of age , and 1.9 % 25 to 36 months of age had blood culture results that were positive ( not significant ) . reevaluation of the 50 bacteremic patients showed that 9 patients had continued fever , 3 patients had persistent bacteremia , pneumonia developed in 1 patient , and meningitis developed in 1 patient . it was concluded that ( 1 ) 3 % of young febrile children with otitis media have bacteremia at the time of evaluation , a rate comparable to that previously reported in children with no focus of infection ; ( 2 ) the incidence of bacteremia increases at higher temperatures ; and ( 3 ) most febrile children with otitis media do well . the clinician must therefore weigh the potential benefit of drawing a blood culture to identify children at risk for complications against the inherent cost , inconvenience , and discomfort . 
delayed detection of congenital hearing loss in high risk infants objective -- to examine the methods used to investigate children at high risk of congenital hearing impairment , and to see whether the introduction of evoked response audiometry has reduced the mean age at which hearing loss is identified . design -- clinicians who notified children to the national congenital rubella surveillance programme were asked retrospectively to complete a questionnaire examining the methods used to identify hearing impairment and the age at testing in two consecutive five year cohorts . the presence or absence of hearing loss was confirmed by obtaining the results of audiometric evaluations and , whenever possible , a recent pure tone audiogram . setting -- the united kingdom . patients -- children notified to the national congenital rubella surveillance programme and born in 1978-87 in whom igm specific for rubella was detected shortly after birth . main outcome measures -- the age at which hearing loss was identified and the degree of loss in decibels at 250 , 500 , 1000 , 2000 , and 4000 hz measured by pure tone audiometry . results -- 61 ( 52 % ) of 117 children born in 1978-82 had a hearing impairment of 40 db or greater in both ears . the mean loss was 93 db . in the following five years 75 ( 47 % ) of 159 children had impaired hearing , their mean loss being 96 db . the age at which the hearing loss was confirmed decreased from 11.6 to 9.8 months as a result of earlier auditory evoked response testing . nevertheless , only eight ( 13 % ) of the children with hearing impairment born in 1978-82 and 16 ( 21 % ) of those born in 1983-7 had these tests performed in the first six months of life . conclusions -- unacceptable delays in identifying hearing loss occurred in this high risk group because of failure to arrange auditory evoked response testing in early infancy . evoked response audiometry is sensitive and specific and should be undertaken within the first few months of life for all infants known to be at risk of sensorineural hearing loss . 
human papillomavirus in oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma . thirty seven cases of oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma were studied by applying dna slot blot analysis and in situ hybridisation using type specific probes for hpv 6 , 11 , 16 and 18 . cases of condyloma accuminata , cervical carcinoma , and laryngeal papilloma were used as controls . blocks including areas of invasive carcinoma , intraepithelial neoplasia , and normal epithelium were studied in each case . no hpv genome was detectable in any of the oesophageal cases . it is concluded that these types of hpv do not have an association with oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma . 
detection of human papillomavirus type 16 dna in carcinomas of the palatine tonsil . twenty eight tonsillar carcinomas of various histological types were investigated for the presence of epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) , cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) , and human papillomavirus ( hpv ) types 6 , 11 , and 16 by in situ hybridisation using highly stringent procedures . in six cases an autoradiographic signal was obtained in the tumour cell nuclei with the hpv type 16 specific probe . no signal was obtained with any of the other probes . immunohistochemical investigations with mouse monoclonal antibodies directed against the l1 protein of hpv type and a rabbit antiserum that detects common protein determinants of hpv gave negative results , thus indicating latent infection . furthermore , a series of tonsils from controls with comparable age distribution was negative by both in situ hybridisation and immunohistology . these results indicate a possible role for hpv 16 in the aetiology of a proportion of tonsillar carcinomas . 
human papillomaviruses : pediatric perspectives on a family of multifaceted tumorigenic pathogens as summarized here human papillomaviruses are associated with a wide spectrum of epithelial lesions , ranging from benign warts to invasive carcinomas . they have been difficult to study in part because they have not yet been propagated in tissue culture . fortunately advances in molecular biology have allowed characterization of hpv genomes and identification of some hpv gene functions . in addition to their clinical importance hpvs represent an important tool for exploring virus-cell interactions , gene expression , cellular differentiation and cancer . hpv infections are not only common but also difficult to treat and prevent . depending on the hpv type and location , the modes of hpv transmission may involve casual physical contact , sexual contact and perinatal vertical transmission . hpv dna genomes replicate at a low copy number in basal cells and , as most clinicians know , are difficult to eradicate . there is often a long latent period and subclinical infections , and hpv dna can be found in normal tissue adjacent to lesions . hpvs can cause widely disseminated lesions , especially in the immunocompromised host and in epidermodysplasia verruciformis . aside from the rare carcinomas , the most serious life-threatening hpv-induced illness in children is recurrent respiratory papillomatosis . somewhat surprisingly in malignant lesions hpv dna is also found as fragments incorporated into the cellular genome . unlike retroviruses such as human immunodeficiency virus which integrate into the cellular genome as part of their life cycle , hpv integration is a terminal event for viral replication . such integration may be critical , however , for viral-induced abnormal cell growth . perhaps the most important implication of the finding that some anogenital cancers are in part sexually transmitted infectious diseases is that they may be preventable . the data overwhelmingly suggest that avoidance of exposure to hpv via abstinence or monogamy in both partners markedly reduces the risk of cervical cancer . a more realistic goal , however is prevention of hpv transmission by the use of barrier method contraceptives , which may be protective against development of cervical carcinoma . the america association of pediatrics committee on adolescents has outlined the obligation of pediatricians to be actively involved in adolescent education on sexually transmitted diseases . certainly a fundamental knowledge of hpv epidemiology , the risks of hpv-related sequelae and prevention of hpv infection are important considerations for adolescent sexuality . although helpful , such awareness alone falls far short of making an impact on sexual behaviors . a significant reduction in hpv infection rates could be achieved only by inundating adolescents at an early age with a highly visible society-wide campaign directed at these issues . 
influence of otitis media on the correlation between rectal and auditory canal temperatures . in a noninterventional , controlled , single-blinded trial , 251 children were examined in a university hospital emergency department setting to study the influence of acute otitis media on the relationship between rectal and auditory canal temperatures . bilateral auditory canal temperatures were measured using an infrared detection probe and microprocessor by nursing staff blinded to the presence of acute otitis media . correlation between rectal and auditory canal temperatures in children with ( r = .81 ) and without ( r = .75 ) acute otitis media were not significantly different . there was no significant difference between infected ( 38.1 degrees c + / - 1.0 degree c ) and uninfected ears ( 38.0 degrees c + / - 1.0 degree c ) with unilateral otitis ( n = 75 ) . although significantly higher than in uninfected children , auditory canal temperatures of children with acute otitis media reflected elevated rectal temperatures and not differences in auditory canal temperatures between ears . 
arytenoid subluxation : diagnosis and treatment . both arytenoid subluxation and recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis ( rlnp ) may result from injury to the larynx , and they may be difficult to distinguish clinically . a patient with arytenoid subluxation who was initially believed to have rlnp was treated with medialization laryngoplasty 1 year after the injury . preoperative magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography effectively demonstrated the cricoarytenoid subluxation , which was confirmed by intraoperative electromyography ( emg ) showing normal electrical activity in the thyroarytenoid muscle . photographs from preoperative fiberoptic laryngoscopy are presented to identify the appearance of arytenoid subluxation . computed tomographic findings and photographs from laryngoscopy of two patients with rlnp documented by intraoperative emg evaluation are presented to help distinguish the clinical appearance of this disorder from arytenoid subluxation . an integrated approach to the diagnosis and treatment of arytenoid subluxation is presented . 
electrical pacing for dynamic treatment of unilateral vocal cord paralysis . experiment in long-denervated muscle . in order to explore the possibility of clinical application of laryngeal pacing as a treatment for unilateral vocal cord paralysis , we examined the reactivity of atrophic muscle to electrical stimulation in dogs whose recurrent laryngeal nerves were damaged by crushing , dissection followed by resuturing , or a 3-cm neurectomy . the threshold level to induce enough vocal cord adduction reached the maximum at 2 weeks after nerve injury , decreased with time , and never surpassed 7 v in each case . on the basis of results of these preliminary probings , laryngeal pacing was conducted on a dog 15 months after resection of the laryngeal nerve . adduction of the paralyzed vocal cord for synchrony with the intact cord was achieved by 7 v of electrical stimulation of the thyroarytenoid muscle that was triggered by signals from the cricothyroid muscle . 
vertical partial laryngectomy : a critical analysis of local recurrence . the purpose of this study was to evaluate local recurrence following vertical partial laryngectomies in 416 patients with either t1n0m0 or t2n0m0 glottic carcinoma . local failure was reported according to the t stage , the precise tumor location within each stage , the true vocal cord mobility , and the surgical procedure performed . no local recurrences were observed among 42 patients who underwent thyrotomy and cordectomy when the tumor was confined to the middle third of the mobile true vocal cord . local failure occurred in 8 of 111 ( 7.2 % ) patients in whom hemilaryngectomy was performed for tumors confined to one mobile true vocal cord . there was a diverse group of lesions within each t stage that responded differently to the surgical approaches . the differences in the initial recurrence rates are discussed in terms of careful preoperative assessment and choice of surgical technique for early glottic carcinoma . 
relationship between histologic features , dna flow cytometry , and clinical behavior of squamous cell carcinomas of the larynx . flow cytometric analysis of dna content was done on 133 primary squamous cell carcinomas of the larynx . overall , 76 tumors ( 57.1 % ) were not diploid ( aneuploid or tetraploid ) . the dna index ( di ) was calculated and grouped into three levels . fifty-seven cases had a di in a range of 1.85 to 2.15 ( 44 diploid and 13 tetraploid ) . the cases were grouped in relation to ploidy , proliferative index , and the tumor-node-metastasis ( tnm ) system . every group was analyzed with respect to survival rate . ploidy was related to histocytologic grade . in well-differentiated tumors ( g1 ) survival rates at 48 months were 41.7 % in diploid cases and 27.7 % in nondiploid ones ( relative risk [ rr ] , 2.01 ; 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 0.89 , 4.52 ) . in no cases that underwent surgery , survival rates at 48 months were , respectively , 81.8 % and 49.2 % ( rr , 5.07 ; 95 % ci , 0.76 , 33.93 ) . these results suggest that ploidy may be a new independent parameter of prognosis in squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx . this is useful in clinical practice because it allows the clinician to recognize those cases with poorer prognosis among the early tumors at a stage where other prognostic parameters are not yet available . 
elective radical neck dissection in epidermoid cancer of the head and neck . a retrospective analysis of 853 cases of mouth , pharynx , and larynx cancer . a retrospective analysis of 853 patients with cancer of the mouth , pharynx , and larynx operated on over a 30-year period was performed . four hundred fifty-seven of them had a radical neck dissection ( rnd ) at some point . five hundred ninety patients had no clinically positive nodes ( n-o ) necks at the time of primary treatment ; 99 of these had elective neck dissection , whereas 95 others had a delayed rnd when nodes became clinically involved . twenty-three percent of all n-o patients had microscopically involved nodes and less than half of these were among those patients selected for elective rnd . furthermore , 58 % of those patients who had elective rnd did not have positive nodes . comparative analysis of elective rnd , delayed therapeutic rnd after clinical appearance of nodes , and composite operations for patients with n1-n3 disease indicates little difference in disease-free survival when the nodes in the elective rnd were positive microscopically for tumors ( 56 % , 49 % and 47 % respectively ) . it thus seems that elective rnd offers no real advantage over a careful watchful waiting approach in most patients . 
a comparison of ho 's , international union against cancer , and american joint committee stage classifications for nasopharyngeal carcinoma . five hundred sixty-four nasopharyngeal carcinomas ( npc ) , mostly of undifferentiated histologic type , were studied for survival , distant metastasis , and local recurrence . all had computerized tomography of the nasopharynx and skull base ( ct-np ) and fiberoptic nasopharyngoscopy for evaluation of the primary tumor . regional disease was assessed by palpation . a computer data base was formed on presentation , containing all information required for staging according to ho 's , the international union against cancer ( uicc ) , and the american joint committee ( ajc ) classifications . the three were compared for their efficacy in predicting prognosis . ho 's classification was superior to the other two because its overall stages differed from one another more significantly in the actuarial survival ( asr ) , disease-free survival ( dfs ) , and freedom from distant metastasis ( fdm ) rates , and its n staging was more accurate in predicting fdm . stages t1 and t2 of uicc/ajc were similar in the freedom from local recurrence rate ( flr ) and should be grouped together , equivalent to ho 's t1 . a more even patients number distribution among the stages also favored the use of ho 's classification . 
comparative epidemiology of cancer between the united states and japan . a second look . vital statistics were examined for the years 1955 through 1985 for japanese natives and united states whites to elucidate changes in cancer mortality and related antecedent patterns of life-style in these two populations . results show that lung cancer rates are rapidly accelerating among japanese males as a consequence of their prior history of heavy cigarette smoking . oropharyngeal cancer rates are also rising in japan paralleling increases in alcohol and tobacco utilization . as the japanese life-style and diet continue to become more " westernized , " the rates of malignancies of the breast , ovary , corpus uteri , prostate , pancreas , and colon also continue to rise . nevertheless , the mortality patterns of certain malignancies , viz. , laryngeal , esophageal , and urinary bladder cancer , are discrepant with their established risk factor associations , suggesting the existence of other differences in risk factor exposure between the two countries . epidemiologists and health educators need to develop innovative international programs of investigation and health promotion with preventive impact on common malignancies associated with risk factors of life-style . 
comparative in situ hybridisation study of juvenile laryngeal papillomatosis in papua new guinea and australia . a comparative study of cases of juvenile laryngeal papillomatosis from papua new guinea ( n = 3 ) and brisbane , australia ( n = 9 ) was carried out . in situ hybridisation reactions for human papillomavirus ( hpv ) types 6 and 11 occurred in 11 cases . all three cases from papua new guinea and eight from australia gave positive signals . a negative reaction was observed in one australian case . the intensity of the reaction was strong in seven cases , moderate in one , and weak in three . an equivocal reaction was also noted with probes for types 16 and 18 , and types 31 , 33 , and 35 in two cases from australia and one from papua new guinea . it is concluded that as similar staining patterns and intensities occurred in cases from both areas , the aetiology is the same . the equivocal reactions noted in three cases were probably due to cross hybridisation rather than multiple infection . 
conservative management of epistaxis . a retrospective study to assess the clinical usefulness of non-surgical management of epistaxis was performed on 340 patients requiring hospitalisation at the ent department of la paz hospital ( madrid ) . the previous history , type of management , hospitalisation time , and volume of transfusion were considered . nasal packing was employed in 94.1 per cent of the patients . most patients ( 82.9 per cent ) were hospitalised less than seven days , and 84.1 per cent of the patients required no transfusion . there was one death . this study supports the clinical usefulness of conservative management in the treatment of patients with epistaxis . 
vertical partial laryngectomy on demand . the author proposes the term ' vertical partial laryngectomy on demand ' for all modifications of vertical laryngectomies ( frontal , frontolateral , vertical and hemilaryngectomy ) . this term includes two conditions : the first is complete oncological removal of the tumour ( proven by histological examination and with the use of magnification or the operating microscope during the operation ) ; secondly , reconstruction of the laryngeal defect by various procedures . the author uses the sternohyoid fascia in vertical and frontolateral partial laryngectomies . from 120 operated cases , a five-year survival rate of 81 per cent was achieved . the fascia showed resistance to post-operative complications and irradiation . 
use of emla cream as an analgesic in the management of painful otitis externa . a new application of emla cream is described . relief of pain in otitis externa is difficult and systemic analgesics for this localized condition are often ineffective . meticulous cleaning of the external auditory meatus is an essential step in the treatment . emla cream is an effective analgesic which can be used to relieve pain and anaesthetize the external auditory meatus to allow cleaning in patients with intact tympanic membranes . 
mucocutaneous leishmaniasis due to leishmania ( leishmania ) infantum : biochemical characterization . a vegetative mass in the right nasal cavity of a 62-year-old man from palma de mallorca , spain , was found to be due to leishmania . the organism was isolated in culture and characterized by in situ hybridization , southern blot hybridization , and isoenzyme analysis ; it was thus demonstrated to be the most common enzyme variant 1 ( mon 1 ) of leishmania ( leishmania ) infantum . 
acquired von willebrand 's syndrome . therapeutic and diagnostic implications . acquired von willebrand 's syndrome is a newly recognized bleeding diathesis thought to be caused by autoantibodies to the von willebrand factor . acquired von willebrand 's syndrome has been reported in association with lymphoproliferative disorders and benign monoclonal gammopathies . clinical features and laboratory abnormalities of this disease are similar to congenital von willebrand 's disease , but the optimal treatment may differ . we describe a 75-year-old man with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and recurrent epistaxis and also discuss the pathogenesis , diagnosis , and treatment of both the congenital and acquired disorders . 
assessment of middle-ear status during experimental otitis media using magnetic resonance imaging . magnetic resonance imaging has proved to be a useful tool for in vivo imaging of a variety of tissues . in this study , magnetic resonance imaging was applied to the middle ear of experimental animals with otitis media . results showed that the presence and distribution of effusion within the middle-ear space could be readily determined . moreover , following injection of gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid , a contrast agent , the inflamed middle-ear mucosa could be resolved . a comparison between magnetic resonance imaging and tympanometry with respect to the diagnosis of effusion showed that negative pressure tympanograms were equivocal ( 50 % effusion ) and that flat or normal tympanograms were in error in approximately 20 % of the observations . these data document a role for magnetic resonance imaging in in vivo studies of the pathogenesis of otitis media with effusion . 
upper respiratory tract infections in young children : duration of and frequency of complications . this study was performed to determine the usual duration of community-acquired viral upper respiratory tract infections and the incidence of complications ( otitis media/sinusitis ) of these respiratory tract infections in infancy and early childhood . children in various forms of child-care arrangements ( home care , group care , and day care ) were enrolled at birth and observed for 3 years . families were telephoned every 2 weeks to record on a standardized form the type and severity of illnesses experienced during the previous interval . only children remaining in their original child-care group for the entire study period were compared . the mean duration of an upper respiratory tract infection varied between 6.6 days ( for 1 - to 2-year-old children in home care ) and 8.9 days ( for children younger than 1 year in day care ) . the percentage of apparently simple upper respiratory tract infections that lasted more than 15 days ranged from 6.5 % ( for 1 - to 3-year-old children in home care ) to 13.1 % ( for 2 - to 3-year-old children in day care ) . children in day care were more likely than children in home care to have protracted respiratory symptoms . of 2741 respiratory tract infections recorded for the 3-year period , 801 ( 29.2 % ) were complicated by otitis media . during the first 2 years of life , children in any type of day care were more likely than children in home care to have otitis media as a complication of upper respiratory tract infection . in year 3 , the risk of otitis media was similar in all types of child care . 
use of gadolinium-enhanced mr imaging for differentiating mucoceles from neoplasms in the paranasal sinuses . the purpose of this study was to determine whether additional clinically useful information could be obtained from gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging compared with the information obtained from nonenhanced mr imaging and computed tomography ( ct ) . therefore , the authors selected 41 patients , whose results at ct examinations demonstrated a variety of pathologic conditions of the paranasal sinuses , to undergo mr imaging both with and without the use of gadopentetate dimeglumine for contrast enhancement . in 22 of 35 cases of neoplasms and mucoceles occurring separately , the lesions were correctly differentiated by established mr signal criteria alone . however , 32 of these 35 cases were accurately differentiated when gadolinium-enhanced mr images were obtained . six cases demonstrated co-existing neoplasm and mucocele : gadolinium-enhanced mr enabled correct differentiation of five of these lesions , while unenhanced mr enabled correct differentiation of three . on the basis of these results , the authors conclude that the use of gadopentetate dimeglumine for contrast enhancement at mr imaging is useful for differentiating mucoceles from neoplasms in the sinonasal tract . 
assessment of nasal patency by rhinoscopic measurement of cross sectional nasal airway area : correlation with subjective nasal symptoms . assessment of nasal patency by the recording of nasal symptom scores was compared with an objective method of determining nasal airway area using a fiberoptic rhinoscope . sixty patients with active allergic rhinitis and nasal congestion requiring treatment were studied . nasal symptoms were recorded and nasal airway area was measured before and at fixed time intervals after administration of either pseudoephedrine or oxymetazoline . both methods detected a decongestant response to both drugs , and the symptom of congestion correlated with the measured nasal airway area . rhinoscopic measurement of cross sectional nasal airway area is an objective method that may be used to complement other methods for evaluation of nasal patency . 
systemic sulfonamides as a cause of bilateral , anterior uveitis . between september 1976 and may 1989 , 12 cases of uveitis attributed to the systemic use of sulfonamide derivatives were reported to the national registry of drug-induced ocular side effects and the us food and drug administration . we evaluated these reports in addition to one case previously reported in the literature and one patient seen at the uveitis clinic , oregon health sciences university , portland . the patients ' median age was 34 years . twelve of 14 patients were treated with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole . all patients for whom the location of the eye disease was specified presented with an iritis . six reports included a description of ocular symmetry , with all patients having bilateral inflammation . of the nine patients for whom data on the duration of drug use was available , seven experienced adverse effects within 8 days of beginning trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole therapy and four showed effects within 24 hours . three patients had histories of rechallenge with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole , and in each case acute iritis recurred within 24 hours of reinstitution of therapy . five patients had additional evidence of an adverse reaction manifested as stevens-johnson syndrome , erythema multiforme , diffuse macular or vesicular rashes , stomatitis , glossitis , conjunctival and scleral injection , and granulomatous hepatitis . the consistent presentation including bilateral , anterior inflammation and the recurrence with rechallenge strongly indicate a cause-effect relationship . although uveitis secondary to sulfonamides is a rarely diagnosed clinical event , recognition of the distinct presentation of this entity is important in the differential diagnosis of uveitis . 
delayed hearing loss after neurovascular decompression . we report two unusual cases of delayed hearing loss after neurovascular decompression of structures within the cerebellopontine angle . in the first case , the patient noted a unilateral hearing loss 3 weeks after undergoing vascular decompression of the trigeminal nerve for tic douloureux . this gradually improved over an 18-month period . in the second case , the patient awoke on the 4th day after vascular decompression of the facial nerve for hemifacial spasm with a bilateral hearing loss that has remained unchanged after the onset . these are examples of delayed acoustic dysfunction occurring with a shift in surgically freed vessels and may have been induced by newly directed neurovascular compression or distortion . 
improved technique for inserting a t tube in patients with subglottic stenosis . an improved method for inserting a silicone t tube through a tracheostomy stoma in patients with subglottic stenosis is presented . a silicone t tube is pulled into the trachea with a catheter that is inserted into the tracheostomy stoma , advanced through the stenotic subglottic space , and pulled out the mouth . a cone-shaped dilator is placed beforehand at the proximal end of the vertical limb of the t tube to facilitate the passage of that end through the stenotic subglottic space . this method was used in 4 patients with good results . we suggest this technique be tried when attempts to insert a t tube by the usual method fail , as it can be performed under local anesthesia without special instruments and is technically easy . 
acoustic reflectometry for assessment of hearing loss in children with middle ear effusion . we sought associations between acoustic reflectometry and hearing loss in ears with and without middle ear effusion in 137 new zealand children ages 3 to 16 years . reflectometry was significantly associated with conductive hearing loss . these associations were present in the entire sample ; correlation coefficients varied between 0.31 at 2000 hz ( p less than 0.001 ) and 0.55 for a three frequency pure tone average ( p less than 0.001 ) . the associations persisted for the sample of ears deemed to be filled entirely by effusion ; correlation coefficients varied between 0.27 at 4000 hz ( p = 0.026 ) and 0.47 at 500 hz ( p less than 0.001 ) . using a reflectivity of 6.0 or greater to detect a three frequency pure tone average loss of 30 db or more , the sensitivity was 88 % and the specificity was 44 % . the technique of acoustic reflectometry should be explored and extended to permit rational decisions about management of middle ear effusions . 
adenotonsillectomy in children with sickle cell disease . the pediatric patient with sickle cell disease risks having a vasoocclusive episode during adenotonsillectomy under general anesthesia . with proper patient selection and appropriate perioperative management , adenotonsillectomy can be accomplished safely in children with sickle cell disease . we review the management of 10 children with sickle hemoglobinopathies who had adenotonsillectomy . indications for surgery were recurrent streptococcal infections in four and obstructive sleep apnea in six of these children . no complications resulted from any of these procedures , and the mean length of postoperative hospitalization was 2.4 days . the principal feature of preoperative management was the transfusion of red blood cells to suppress the patient 's endogenous erythropoiesis and to reduce the concentration of sickle cell hemoglobin to less than 30 % . though a prospective , multi-institutional clinical trial will ultimately be required to settle the issue of the safest preoperative management of children with sickle cell disease , balancing the risks of transfusion-related complications against anesthesia-related complications , our experience supports the operative safety of hypertransfusion therapy in children with sickle cell disease . 
glossopharyngeal schwannoma : review of five cases and the literature . glossopharyngeal schwannomas are rare tumors in spite of the fact that acoustic schwannomas account for 8 % -10 % of intracranial tumors . there have been 23 reported cases in the literature . this report of five cases is the largest series of these tumors . the presentation , radiological workup , operation , and long-term postoperative results will be presented , along with a review of the literature . 
external fixation using microplates after laryngotracheal expansion surgery . an animal study . management of severe laryngotracheal stenosis requires treatment with open laryngeal surgical approaches . performing the necessary anterior , and possibly posterior , incisions to expand the cricoid and tracheal rings causes instability of the segments . placing an intraluminal stent has several disadvantages , ranging from injury of healthy tissue to airway obstruction . the availability of an external stent would avoid many of these complications . we performed expansion laryngeal surgery in dogs and explored the use of microplates for external fixation and determined the surgical outcome if no fixation is used . the results show that microplates are very effective in maintaining external fixation and that a need for placing an intraluminal stent when a posterior cricoid split is performed exists . 
single-stage laryngotracheal reconstruction . the mainstay for repairing subglottic and tracheal stenosis has been the rib graft with prolonged stenting . a refinement of this treatment was the use of the anterior cricoid decompression ( split ) . we present single-stage reconstruction of the airway as an additional refinement of the laryngotracheoplasty . this article describes the experience of two institutions with single-stage reconstruction and offers some observations on the principles of the technique . 
culture-positive allergic fungal sinusitis . allergic aspergillus sinusitis is a well-defined clinical and histologic entity , although surprisingly few reported cases have yielded any fungal growth on culture . taking advantage of recent changes in the identification and classification of certain groups of fungi , we were able to identify a specific fungal organism in 19 of 22 consecutive patients with a histologic diagnosis of allergic fungal sinusitis over the past 2 1/2 years . aspergillus was found in only one patient , while an organism in the family of dematiaceous fungi was found in 18 patients . of these patients , the genus bipolaris was the most commonly represented , while exserohilum , curvularia , and alternaria species were seen with less frequency . thus , it appears that aspergillus may not be the most common etiologic agent in allergic " aspergillus " sinusitis . allergic fungal sinusitis is not unusual and its incidence may be increasing . on initial clinical evaluation it may be easily mistaken for malignancy or invasive fungal disease with the potential for overly aggressive treatment . preoperative suspicion of allergic fungal sinusitis based on clinical and roentgenographic findings along with careful communication with the mycology laboratory about the possibility of dematiaceous fungal growth are necessary for proper diagnosis . 
bacteriology of the ethmoid bullae in children with chronic sinusitis . cultures from 105 children with chronic sinusitis who had failed aggressive medical management were retrospectively studied . patients with immunodeficiency and cystic fibrosis were excluded from the study . because the most common sites of disease were the infundibula and anterior ethmoid sinuses , samples of mucosa removed from the anterior ethmoid bullae during endoscopic ethmoidectomy were routinely cultured for aerobic and anaerobic organisms . fungal cultures were performed for 55 bullae . the principal organisms isolated were alpha-hemolytic streptococcus , staphylococcus aureus , moraxella catarrhalis , streptococcus pneumoniae , and haemophilus influenzae non-type b. only 12 anaerobic organisms and four fungi were isolated . of the 204 bullae cultured , multiple organisms were found in 61 bullae and 40 showed no growth . isolates of other less common organisms were also found . these data are analyzed on the basis of age and duration of symptoms , and antibiotic treatment is described . 
quantitation of dna ploidy in squamous intraepithelial neoplasia of the laryngeal glottis . the dna contents in 56 laryngeal glottic biopsy specimens with a spectrum of squamous intraepithelial neoplastic ( sin ) changes were evaluated by image analysis . a combination of dna histogram features were used to define abnormal dna-containing cell populations that were interpreted as representing intraepithelial neoplastic transformation . eighteen biopsy specimens were classified as dysplasia/keratosis and graded sin i , six ( 33 % ) of which were aneuploid . eighteen ( 78 % ) of 23 biopsy specimens graded sin ii were aneuploid , and all 15 biopsy specimens graded sin iii had abnormal quantities of nuclear dna . twelve biopsy specimens ( six of sin ii grade and six of sin iii grade ) were considered to represent keratinizing forms of dysplasia , and all 12 ( 100 % ) were found to contain increased ( aneuploid ) quantities of dna . we conclude that the proposed sin-grading scheme for laryngeal epithelial abnormalities exhibits strong correlations with nuclear dna content . in addition , aneuploidy was observed in all sin ii - and sin iii-graded biopsy specimens with prominent keratinization . 
plasma cell granuloma of the nasal cavity treated by radiation therapy . plasma cell granuloma is a rare , benign tumor most commonly found in the lungs in patients younger than 30 years . although presentation has been reported at a number of other anatomic sites , this report is the first of plasma cell granuloma of the nasal cavity . the tumor was initially resected , but progression was seen at 1-month follow-up . because further surgery to completely eradicate the tumor would have been extensive and disfiguring , 40-gy external beam radiation was given in 20 fractions using a three-field wedge technique . most recent clinical follow-up at 27 months showed local control . surgery remains the treatment of choice for plasma cell granuloma when the disease can be completely resected . however , irradiation can also be effective in patients with recurrent or inoperable local disease . 
receptors for epidermal growth factor and steroid hormones in primary laryngeal tumors . the authors investigated the presence of epidermal growth factor ( egf-r ) , estrogen ( er ) , progesterone ( pr ) , and androgen ( ar ) receptors in 42 laryngeal squamous cell carcinomas and 20 normal laryngeal mucosa specimens . egf-r were expressed in all tumor specimens analyzed , with significantly higher levels in tumor samples compared with normal mucosa ( p less than 0.05 ) . the immunohistochemical study demonstrated the presence of egf-r in basal and parabasal cells of normal mucosa and in most of the cancer cells . there was no correlation between egf-r and tumor localization or t classification . on the other hand , the authors did find an interesting correlation between egf-r levels and grading , egf-r levels being significantly higher in g3 than in g1-g2 tumors . moreover , the three patients whose tumors expressed the highest egf-r levels had disease recur within 8 months . among tumor specimens , 9.5 % , 35.7 % , and 9.5 % expressed very low but detectable er , pr , and ar levels , respectively . no statistically significant difference was found between the levels of steroid receptors in the tumor and normal mucosa specimens , and neither was there any correlation of er , pr , and ar with the pathologic findings . the authors ' results suggest that the egf-r system may play a role in regulating the growth of laryngeal cancer . additional studies should demonstrate whether , as in other tumor types , egf-r expression may have prognostic significance in human laryngeal cancer . 
noise-induced hearing loss in orthopaedic staff . in the light of eec proposals on the avoidance of damage to hearing caused by noise , a study was undertaken to determine the risk posed by powered orthopaedic instruments . the noise levels from a number of air-powered and electric tools were measured and analysed and found to exceed the recommended levels . the predicted daily personal noise exposure was calculated and the potential for hearing damage confirmed . twenty-seven senior orthopaedic staff were then assessed by audiometry ; evidence of noise-induced hearing loss was found in half the subjects . the increasing use of powered instruments in elective orthopaedics and fracture fixation may present a significant cumulative risk to the hearing of orthopaedic surgeons and theatre personnel . the use of ear defenders should be promoted , and manufacturers should be encouraged to develop instruments with lower noise emission levels . 
modification of the fluorescent allergosorbent test as an inhibition assay for determination of cross-reactivity among aeroallergens . the fluorescent allergosorbent test was adapted as an inhibition assay to determine cross-reactivity between aeroallergens . with this method , similar antigenic determinants were found between short ragweed and giant ragweed , cocklebur , lamb 's - quarter , rough pigweed , marsh elder , and goldenrod . cocklebur and giant ragweed were highly potent in their ability to competitively bind to short ragweed ige . the other pollens demonstrated lower potency of cross-reacting antigens . the fluorescent allergosorbent test-inhibition assay appears to be a useful method to determine cross-reactivity among aeroallergens . 
audiological findings following head trauma . traumatic head injury is the principal cause of death and serious physical disability in adolescents and young adult . hearing loss is a common sequela of head trauma . the results of pure tone and auditory brain-stem response ( abr ) assessment of minor head injury revealed that 20 per cent of these cases showed impairment of hearing including both conductive and sensorineural hearing loss mostly in the high frequencies loss . abr findings showed a significant difference of absolute wave v latency and interwave ( iii-v ) latencies at repetition rate 11.1 click/sec . , and a highly significant difference at a repetition rate of 51.1 click/sec . , compared with the control group . in severe head injury , conductive hearing loss was found in only one case , in which a longitudinal fracture of the temporal bone was identified radiologically . no abr could be recorded at a repetition rate of 11.1 click/sec . in either ear of this case ; this patient died a few days later . three cases were found with a mixed sensorineural hearing loss ; one of them showed a longitudinal fracture radiologically . abr findings in two cases showed prolongation of wave v and i-v interwave latencies , and the third case showed absence of abr recording . in comatose patients , an abr grading system is a more sensitive index of brainstem dysfunction than the simple division of normal versus abnormal abr waves and interwave latencies . presence or prolongation of wave v and interwave latency i-v even in one ear is of good prognostic value in the comatosed patient . 
point and period prevalence of otitis media with effusion evaluated by daily tympanometry . previous studies on daily tympanometric screening using an automatic impedance tympanoscope indicated relatively high incidences of type b tympanograms of one day 's duration , which is contrary to our conceptions of the pathogenesis and pathology of otitis media with effusion . we therefore repeated the study in 51 otherwise healthy children ( 100 ears ) attending kindergarten . tympanometry was performed daily for one month using both the conventional impedance apparatus az7 and the automatic impedance tympanoscope zs 331 . the impedance apparatus did not indicate any one-day type b tympanograms and only a few short-lasting episodes occurring either in the beginning or end of the study period . several ears had type b tympanograms on all days examined . the point prevalence was 15 per cent and the period prevalence 17 per cent , which accord well with findings of previous epidemiological studies of secretory otitis . the impedance tympanoscope indicated 16 cases of b-curves lasting only one day and considerably higher point and period prevalences , which make the impedance tympanoscope unsuited for both scientific and clinical purposes . 
tympano-cartilago-stapediopexy : a method to improve hearing in open technique tympanoplasty . canal wall-down technique tympanoplasty was indicated in about 41 per cent of our cases with chronic suppurative otitis media . in this series done during the last four years , of 576 tympanoplasties , 240 cases needed type iii tympanoplasty . in 145 cases , myringostapediopexy was carried out using temporalis fascia grafting over the head of the stapes . tympano-cartilago-stapediopexy was performed in the other 95 cases by using tragal cartilage and perichondrium over the stapes . a comparison between the results of both methods of grafting is discussed . improvement in hearing was achieved after tympano-cartilago-stapediopexy . this method proved to be suitable for those cases which need open technique tympanoplasty . 
inner ear cholesteatoma and the preservation of cochlear function . labyrinthine destruction by direct cholesteatoma invasion has always been considered a serious threat to the inner ear function . a number of reports in the literature have cited both patients who had preservation of hearing despite widespread erosion of the labyrinth by cholesteatoma and patients who had retained auditory function despite surgical removal of the matrix from the labyrinth . in most cases the vestibular portion of the inner ear was invaded but cases of cochlear involvement have been described as well . twelve cases with pre-operative auditory function preservation despite extensive labyrinthine destruction treated at our institution are reported . seven cases retained cochlear function post-operatively . possible explanations of this occurrence and implications of related with hearing preservation in the presence of widespread inner ear destruction by chronic inflammatory disease are discussed . 
lateral sinus thrombosis : a problem still with us lateral sinus thrombosis is now a rare complication of ear disease in the developed world , since the advent of the widespread use of antibiotics . the classic picture is often modified by previous antibiotic treatment making diagnosis and management difficult . lack of familiarity with this condition amongst present day otologists may lead to late diagnosis and treatment . we review three cases that we have managed recently and compare their clinical courses with the classic description of the disease . 
cochlear otosclerosis : statistical analysis of relationship of spiral ligament hyalinization to hearing loss . this paper presents an analysis of the relationship of the amount of hyalinization of the spiral ligament , secondary to cochlear otosclerosis ( spongiosis ) , to the amount of hearing loss . this relationship was previously studied by parahy and linthicum . it was found that the larger the amount of hyalinization , the greater the hearing loss . this hyalinization is a measure of the amount of toxic enzymes being excreted into the inner ear fluid . these enzymes are suspected to affect the metabolic function of the hair cells . 
a new syndrome : hearing loss and familial salivary gland insensitivity to aldosterone in two brothers . two male siblings presented in infancy with hyponatremia . the levels of plasma renin activity and aldosterone were elevated . sodium supplement was necessary to maintain normal sodium balance . the salivary sodium concentrations were markedly elevated , with sweat sodium levels being in the upper normal range . urinary sodium concentration and renal epithelial exchange between sodium and potassium were normal . this was felt to be due to an autosomal recessive disorder . both siblings were later diagnosed as having a bilateral moderate to severe sensorineural hearing loss with intermittent conductive overlay due to middle ear fluid . the sensorineural loss was also felt to be autosomal recessive in origin , but the possibility of a disturbance of sodium balance in the inner ear has been questioned . 
non-hodgkins lymphoma of the head and neck : experience in the grampian area . the records of 44 cases of non-hodgkins lymphoma ( nhl ) presenting to the ear , nose and throat department in the grampian area from 1980-1988 were examined in relation to site of occurrence , histology , age at presentation , clinical stage , treatment and survival . the median age was 67 years and there was a preponderance of high grade histology , especially in disease affecting the tonsil . most deaths occurred in the first year ; patients with high grade disease and those in stages three and four had a significantly poorer survival during the first year . the site of disease had no influence on survival . 
isolated congenital round window absence . an adult with unilateral round window atresia is presented . with care , ct scanning may be used to demonstrate round window occlusion . cochlear fenestration resulted in only a modest hearing improvement . previously reported cases are reviewed . 
postauricular cerebellar encephalocoele secondary to chronic suppurative otitis media and mastoid surgery . cerebellar herniation into the mastoid through the posterior aspect of the temporal bone as a result of chronic suppurative otitis media and mastoid surgery is a rare event . a case is reported in which such a hernia presented subcutaneously behind the pinna ; its repair is discussed . 
burkitt 's lymphoma of the tonsil . a case of burkitt 's lymphoma involving the tonsil in a 10-year-old bedouin boy , is presented . the biological behaviour and the clinical presentation of this unusual neoplasm are discussed and the english language literature is reviewed . the diagnosis was made by histological examination , electron microscopy and confirmed by immunohistochemistry . the patient showed an excellent symptomatic response to surgery and chemotherapy . 
correlation between antibodies to type ii collagen and treatment outcome in bilateral progressive sensorineural hearing loss . our aim was to assess whether " idiopathic " bilateral progressive sensorineural hearing loss ( bpshl ) has an immunological cause in some patients ; antibodies to native type ii collagen were sought by an elisa in eighteen patients with bpshl , before and after corticosteroid treatment , and in twelve patients with meniere 's disease , fifteen with otosclerosis , eighteen with rheumatoid arthritis , nine with fibrositis , and nine healthy controls . a positive result was defined as a mean dilution titre of 2 or more . eight of eighteen bpshl patients had positive titres -- significantly ( p less than 0.005 ) more than in any other group ( one meniere 's disease , two otosclerosis , and no others ) . the mean antibody titre was higher in the bpshl group than in any other group ( 2.02 [ sem 0.62 ] vs 0.17 [ 0.17 ] ) meniere 's disease , 0.44 [ 0.32 ] otosclerosis , 0 all others ; p less than 0.005 ) . the nine bpshl patients who showed a clinical response to corticosteroids ( improvement in at least one tone by audiogram or 25 db in speech discrimination score ) had the highest mean antibody titre ( 3.46 [ 0.88 ] vs 0.59 [ 0.59 ] for the nine non-responsive patients ; p less than 0.04 ) . we suggest that in some patients with bpshl , immunity to type ii collagen , a major constituent of the inner ear , may be important in the pathogenesis of the disorder . 
management decisions in laryngeal carcinoma in situ . twenty-one patients with laryngeal carcinoma in situ ( n = 12 ) or carcinoma in situ with microinvasion ( n = 9 ) were treated with laser mucosal dissection of the vocal cords and/or superficial laser cordectomy . the normal architecture of the vocal cords was preserved because the depth of vaporization was usually superficial in these early cases . five patients had recurrence , new tumor , or persistence of abnormal tissue that required additional laser surgical treatments . with a follow-up range of 6 months to 4 years , all patients currently are free of laryngeal abnormality , and no patient has needed open laryngeal surgery or radiation therapy . transoral endoscopic laser resection of laryngeal carcinoma in situ with or without microinvasion should be the treatment of choice for these early lesions . 
the hypotympanum and infralabyrinthine cells in chronic otitis media . despite the localization implied by the term " chronic otitis media , " little attention has been paid to the role of the hypotympanum in chronic active otitis media . most authors have emphasized the role of recurrent cholesteatoma or unexenterated cells in the mastoid cell system as causes of recurrent disease . seven cases are reported in which clinical evidence indicated that recurrent chronic otitis media was limited to the hypotympanum and infralabyrinthine cell system . in the five cases in which revision surgery was done , exenteration of this area resulted in an asymptomatic ear . the anatomy , radiographic evaluation , and surgical approach to the hypotympanum are reviewed . careful inspection of the hypotympanum in primary surgery for chronic ear disease and exenteration of the hypotympanic and proximal infralabyrinthine cell tract are advocated when these regions contain cholesteatoma or extensive granulomatous disease . 
characterization of cytokines present in middle ear effusions . retention of inflammatory mediators and cells in the middle ear cleft during chronic otitis media with effusion ( come ) , results in ongoing inflammation with the potential for pathologic changes and hearing loss . cytokines are glycoproteins produced by macrophages and other cells . activities of cytokines include fever production , osteoclast , fibroblast , phagocyte and cytotoxic cell activation , regulation of antibody formation , and inhibition of cartilage , bone and endothelial cell growth . using enzyme-linked immunospecific assays we measured levels of six cytokines in middle ear effusions ( mee ) from children with come . significant levels of four cytokines : interleukin-1-beta ( greater than 50 pg/ml ) , interleukin-2 ( greater than 300 pg/ml ) , tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( greater than 40 pg/ml ) , and gamma-interferon ( greater than 6.25 pg/ml ) were found in 51 % , 54 % , 63 % , and 19 % of mee , respectively . in contrast , levels of a fifth cytokine , granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor , and a sixth cytokine , interleukin-4 , were undetectable . age was observed to have a significant effect on the levels of specific cytokines . interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) correlated inversely ( p less than .02 ) with age such that the younger the child , the higher the level of il-1 in mee . tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf ) correlated directly ( p less than .005 ) with age such that the older the child , the higher the level of tnf in mee . children undergoing tympanostomy on multiple occasions had average mee tnf levels ( 234.2 + / - 109.1 pg/mg total protein ) that were nearly 14 times higher ( p less than .005 ) than those from children undergoing their first tympanostomy ( 16.9 + / - 3.0 pg/mg total protein ) . thus il-1 correlated with the early stages of come , while tnf correlated with persistence of disease . the presence of these cytokines in mee may be responsible for the mucosal damage , bone erosion , fibrosis , and resulting hearing loss seen in some cases of come . 
the glasgow benefit plot : a new method for reporting benefits from middle ear surgery . conventionally , the results of middle ear surgery are reported in terms of postoperative closure of the air-bone gap or the improvement in air-conduction thresholds . while these are relevant in that they assess the technical success of the procedure and the lessening of monaural disability , they do not necessarily assess whether the patient has benefited . this is determined by many factors , not least of which is the hearing in the nonoperated ear . in this paper , we suggest that preoperative and postoperative plots of the air-conduction thresholds in both ears be used as an additional method of presenting the results . first , the proportion of patients that fall into each of three main preoperative impairment groups are identified . this is important , as the potential benefits from surgery are not the same in each group . thereafter , the percentages of patients that achieve various postoperative hearing categories can be calculated , allowing surgeons to audit their results and make comparisons between series . 
the changing direction of nystagmus in acute meniere 's disease : pathophysiological implications . the direction ( s ) and pathophysiologic basis of nystagmus during an acute attack of meniere 's disease have been subject to much debate in the world literature . clinical recordings from two patients whose nystagmus was captured near the very beginning of the acute vertiginous episode are presented . previous clinical observations in meniere 's disease , experimental animal models concerned with initiation of peripheral nystagmus , and the phenomenon of recovery are discussed . 
ultrastructure of respiratory cilia of wic-hyd male rats . an animal model for human immotile cilia syndrome . the wic-hyd rat is a mutant from the csk : wistar-imamichi rat , with spontaneous hydrocephalus . in male rats , the hydrocephalus is severe and about one half of hydrocephalic male littermates possess situs inversus totalis . ependymal cilia in these animals are immotile , and this defect is regarded as a mechanical cause of hydrocephalus . this paper presents the ultrastructural features of respiratory cilia in these rats in comparison with those in human immotile cilia syndrome . the respiratory cilia in these rats also are immotile and the dynein arms are missing , as in human cases . previously only eight dogs with immotile cilia syndrome and a mutant hydrocephalic-polydactyl mouse were reported with respect to these phenomena . however the wic-hyd rat is the first useful animal model for human immotile cilia syndrome , and further studies may serve to clarify the genetic background of this condition . 
stapes surgery in osteogenesis imperfecta : analysis of postoperative hearing loss . the disappointing results in 12 of 58 stapedectomies , including 4 revision operations , performed on osteogenesis imperfecta patients were analyzed and compared with reports in the literature . it is concluded that the results described as disappointing were not always the product of the stapes operation . a progressive sensorineural hearing loss arising independently of the operation as a result of progression in the disease process of osteogenesis imperfecta appears to have a severe influence on the final hearing threshold . 
ultrastructural evidence of a merocrine secretion in the human endolymphatic sac . the results of a light and transmission electron microscopic analysis of an endolymphatic sac ( es ) from a patient suffering from episodic vertigo , tinnitus , and hearing loss are presented . a biopsy of the intraosseous portion of the es was obtained during a translabyrinthine approach to section the vestibular nerve in the internal acoustic meatus . the material consisted mainly of tubular epithelial structures filled with heavily stained material . pathologically dilated and degranulated rough endoplasmic reticuli and disaggregation of polyribosomes with accumulation of solitary ribosomes in the cytosol and endoplasmic reticulum suggested a disturbed epithelial cell protein synthesis . ultrastructural evidence of an increased merocrine secretion of glycoprotein conjugates into the es was noted . this made it possible to analyze the presumed intracellular secretory pathways . an increased number of intraepithelial lymphocytes and monocytes was observed . since the inner ear had been subjected to surgical intervention before the vestibular nerve section , no conclusions can be drawn as to whether the patient 's symptoms were related to the disturbed protein metabolism and hypersecretion of glycoprotein conjugates into the es . the findings support earlier experimental results that indicate that the es has not only a resorptive function but also a secretory one . 
tumor necrosis factor alpha in middle ear cholesteatoma and its effect on keratinocytes in vitro . tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) was found in human middle ear cholesteatoma tissues by the immunoperoxidase method using rabbit anti human tnf-alpha immunoglobulin g. it appeared to be localized in the epithelium and connective tissue of cholesteatomas studied , particularly on basal and spinous cells , and macrophages . the epithelium of normal external ear canal skin was lightly stained , but the staining was much weaker than that of the cholesteatomas observed . in vitro , recombinant mouse tnf-alpha stimulated proliferation , protein synthesis , and terminal differentiation of basal keratinocytes . these stimulatory effects were blocked by the anti-tnf-alpha immunoglobulin g , which by itself had no effect on basal keratinocytes . these findings suggest that tnf-alpha plays an important role in the development of cholesteatomas seen clinically . 
management of subglottic stenosis in the adult . twenty-one adult patients were surgically treated for severe subglottic stenosis refractory to endoscopic treatment . patients were treated by anterior or anterior and posterior cricoid division with costal cartilage grafting . seventy-six percent of the patients were successfully decannulated . success of treatment was not dependent on cause of the stenosis or age or sex of the patient . there was a significantly better outcome ( p less than .05 ) in patients with isolated subglottic stenosis versus those with combined glottic and subglottic stenosis . 
surgical treatment of laryngeal web with mucosa graft . surgical treatment of laryngeal webbing varies with the extent and site of the web . an extensive one seems to be best treated by laryngofissure and skin or mucosa transplantation . recent experiences with four cases of thick glottal webbing indicated that a mucosa graft was better for the voice result than a skin graft . for success in the airway and voice results , the salient points in surgery include 1 ) precise midline thyrotomy , 2 ) shaping of the vocal cord under fiberoptic control , and 3 ) mucosa grafting with the combined use of a pliable stent or fibrin glue for fixation . 
ototoxic reaction to erythromycin . we report a case of bilateral hearing loss in a patient treated with intravenous erythromycin lactobionate . the ototoxic reaction occurred despite the patient 's having normal renal and hepatic function and the fact that serum erythromycin levels were within the predicted normal range . in addition to hearing loss , a marked labyrinthic hyporreflexia was also observed . hearing loss improved after the treatment was discontinued , but labyrinthic abnormalities persisted suggesting that erythromycin had caused a permanent vestibular damage . 
indications for the surgical treatment of osteomas of the frontal and ethmoid sinuses . sixty-one patients with an osteoma of the frontal or ethmoid sinuses have been studied . the following indications for surgical removal of these osteomas are suggested : osteomas extending beyond the boundaries of the frontal sinus , if enlarging , if localized in the region adjacent to the nasofrontal duct , if signs of chronic sinusitis are present , osteomas of the ethmoid sinuses , irrespective of their size and if patients with osteomas complain of headache and other causes of headache have been excluded . the operation of choice is the osteoplastic flap operation . 
microdrill versus perforator for stapedotomy . the purpose of this study was to compare the hearing results of performing stapedotomy using either a microdrill or a perforator . two groups of patients , otherwise similar , were followed up for at least 2 years after the stapedotomy . it was possible to create 0.8 mm fenestra in 91.6 % of our patients . there was no significant difference between the two groups in hearing results . the results showed a continuous improvement in the first 6 post-operative months after which the hearing stabilized . in our hands , the microdrill has not proved to be more traumatic than the perforator to the inner ear . 
external ear resonance in children with otitis media with effusion . a middle ear effusion has been shown , in kemar , to increase the height of the resonant peak of the external auditory canal by 6 db spl . it has also been shown that the hearing impairment due to otitis media with effusion is related to the volume of middle ear fluid . therefore , it was hypothesized that measurement of the height of the resonant peak of the external auditory canal could be used as a method of assessing the magnitude of any hearing impairment due to otitis media with effusion . 182 ears from 182 children aged 3-12 ( mean 6.3 ) years were studied . pure-tone audiometry and impedance tympanometry were performed , and the acoustics of the external auditory canal were measured using the rastronics cc1-10 frequency response analyser . the mean height of the resonant peak ( 17.9 db spl ) of children with a type a tympanogram was significantly different from the mean value ( 23.6 db spl ) of those with a type b tympanogram . there was a significant correlation between the height of the resonant peak and the speech frequency average of the pure-tone thresholds . the sensitivity and specificity of using the height of the resonant peak to detect hearing impairments in different age groups were calculated and compared with the sensitivity and specificity of tympanometry . the test did not provide the same degree of sensitivity as tympanometry but was more specific . the additional advantages of the test are that it is quick , taking less than 1 min per ear , and is well tolerated by children in whom there was a 99 % compliance . 
chronic otitis media : the significance of nasal obstruction . the nasal airway resistance of 15 patients with unilateral chronic otitis media and 15 controls was measured by anterior active rhinomanometry . airway resistance was measured on each side before and after decongestion to differentiate resistance due to structural abnormality from that due to mucosal swelling . the nasal resistance was significantly greater ( p less than 0.01 ) on the side of the affected ear in patients with unilateral chronic otitis media before decongestion , but following decongestion the difference was not significant . nasal obstruction is a significant determinant in unilateral chronic otitis media and although septal displacement may be the underlying cause , the major component of the obstruction appears to be due to an associated mucosal oedema . 
occupational exposure and head and neck carcinoma . an epidemiological case-control study was conducted to investigate occupational risk factors in cancers of the upper respiratory and digestive tract . cases were men with squamous cell carcinoma of the oropharynx ( 667 ) , hypopharynx ( 348 ) , glottis ( 246 ) , supraglottis ( 219 ) , epilarynx ( 204 ) , and 4 subsites of the oral cavity ( 787 ) . controls were healthy patients or patients with cancer of another site or another histological type ( 147 men ) . past occupational exposures of cases and controls were compared . the analysis was performed independently for each site of cancer , controlling for age , amount and type of alcohol and tobacco consumption , and state of dentition . results showed that cancer of the supraglottis was associated with exposure to oil and grease ( odds ratio = 2.4 ; 95 % confidence interval 1.0-5 .8 ) , and with exposure to cement ( odds ratio = 4.2 ; 95 % confidence interval = 1.1-16 .4 ) . cancer of the glottis was also associated with exposure to dye ( odds ratio = 6.4 ; 95 % confidence interval = 0.7-56 .6 ) . exposure to flour occurred more frequently among controls than among patients with pharyngeal or oral cancer . this might reflect an association between this occupational exposure and some particular types of cancer included in the control group . 
nuclear medicine in otolaryngology . nuclear medicine has a distinct role to play in otolaryngological practice . accurate diagnosis of endocrine conditions is now possible using precise in-vitro hormone measurement . specific clinical questions can be answered using in-vivo investigations . 99mtco-4 / 123i scintigraphy is used to evaluate thyrotoxicosis and solitary thyroid nodules . 99mtc/201t1 subtraction scanning is of value in the preoperative localization of parathyroid adenomas and 99mtco-4 is particularly useful in assessing salivary and lachrymal gland function and drainage . 99mtc-mdp bone scanning is useful in the evaluation of osteomyelitis , temporomandibular joint dysfunction , bone graft viability and some facial fractures . the role of radioisotopes in the management of differentiated and medullary carcinoma of the thyroid is now well established . although there are many other agents available to image head and neck cancer , few can actually achieve the required diagnostic sensitivity and specificity . the introduction of monoclonal antibodies into routine imaging has been hampered by distinct practical problems and the search is now on for more sensitive non-specific diagnostic agents . it is now possible to evaluate new 99mtc labelled tumour-imaging agents using animal tumour model systems and the use of radioactivity in all aspects of otolaryngological research adds an extra quantitive dimension . together with spect , and the introduction of positron emission tomography ( pet ) to image the physiology of normal tissues and tumours , the use of radionuclide investigations can lead only to an increase in ent diagnostic sensitivity and specificity and , subsequently , to an overall improvement in the way we diagnose , stage and treat head and neck cancer . 
predictive factors for hand eczema . factors related to hand eczema were studied . their relative importance as predictors was ranked by multiple logistic regression analysis . questionnaires were sent to 20,000 individuals aged 20-65 years , randomly selected from the population register . those subjects ( 1385 ) considering themselves to have had hand eczema within the previous 12 months were invited to a dermatological examination . it was found that a history of childhood eczema was the most important predictive factor for hand eczema . second was female sex , followed by occupational exposure , a history of asthma and/or hay fever , and a service occupation . a small decrease in risk with advancing age was also found . the difference in the probability of having had eczema in a 1-year period , between individuals having the most important risk factors studied and those having none of them , proved to be for females 48 % compared to 8 % , and for males 34 % compared to 4 % . a history of childhood eczema was found to be more common among young persons , indicating an increase in the prevalence of atopic dermatitis . of those individuals who reported childhood eczema , 27 % reported hand eczema on some occasion during the last 12 months . 
alterations of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in the nasal mucosa of allergic patients in comparison with nonallergic individuals . cholinergic nasal hyperresponsiveness in nasal allergy may be due to changes of the characteristics in muscarinic cholinergic receptors . radioligand receptor binding and in vitro autoradiographic studies of nasal mucosa in nonallergic ( na ) and allergic patients were performed to investigate this hypothesis . the heterogeneous na group was subdivided into control individuals and patients with chronic sinusitis and vasomotor rhinitis . the 3h - ( - ) - quinuclidinylbenzilate binding to muscarinic receptors in human nasal mucosa membranes was saturable and of high affinity in all groups . no significant differences could be demonstrated between the subgroups of the na patients . in allergic patients the dissociation constants and receptor densities were significantly decreased in comparison with those of na and with those of control individuals . no differences in agonist binding or coupling of the muscarinic receptor to the effector system via the g protein could be observed in allergic patients . in vitro autoradiographic experiments demonstrated specific 3h - ( - ) - quinuclidinylbenzilate labeling of the glandular acini in na and allergic patients . no specific labeling could be observed in the epithelium , blood vessels , or connective tissue . in conclusion , the increased sensitivity and decreased muscarinic receptor number may reflect the cholinergic-induced hypersecretion in nasal allergy but are probably too small to explain the complex allergic reaction . 
alterations of adrenoceptors in the nasal mucosa of allergic patients in comparison with nonallergic individuals . nasal hyperreactivity in nasal allergy may be due to changes of the characteristics in adrenergic receptors . radioligand receptor-binding studies with the antagonists , 3h-prazosin ( alpha 1-adrenoceptor ) , 3h-rauwolscine ( alpha 2-adrenoceptor ) , and 125i - ( - ) - cyanopindolol ( beta-adrenoceptor ) were performed in homogenates of nasal mucosa of allergic and nonallergic ( na ) patients to investigate this hypothesis . the heterogeneous na group was subdivided into control individuals and patients with chronic sinusitis and vasomotor rhinitis . no significant differences in affinities or densities of alpha 1 - and alpha 2-adrenoceptors could be demonstrated in allergic patients in comparison with na and control individuals . the beta-adrenoceptor density was significantly reduced in allergic patients in comparison with that of control individuals . neither changes in agonist binding or in the effect of gpp ( nh ) p on the agonist binding to beta-adrenoceptors could be observed in allergic patients . the subtype selective antagonist , lk203-030 , demonstrated the presence of a homogeneous population of beta 2-adrenoceptors in human nasal mucosa of both na and allergic patients . in vitro , autoradiography demonstrated specific 125i - ( - ) - cyanopindolol labeling of the epithelium in na and allergic patients . in conclusion , no changes in characteristics of alpha 1 - or alpha 2-adrenoceptors in the nasal mucosa could be demonstrated in nasal allergy . however , a decreased number of beta-adrenoceptors may reflect a beta-adrenergic abnormality in nasal allergy . 
dexamethasone in the prevention of postextubation stridor in children . to assess whether there is any advantage in the use of corticosteroid to prevent postextubation stridor in children , we conducted a prospective , randomized , double-blind trial of dexamethasone versus saline solution . the patients were evaluated and then randomly selected to receive either dexamethasone or saline solution according to a stratification based on risk factors for postextubation stridor : age , duration of intubation , upper airway trauma , circulatory compromise , and tracheitis . dexamethasone , 0.5 mg/kg , was given every 6 hours for a total of six doses beginning 6 to 12 hours before and continuing after endotracheal extubation in a pediatric intensive care setting . there was no statistical difference in incidence of postextubation stridor in the two groups ; 23 of 77 children in the placebo group and 16 of 76 in the dexamethasone group had stridor requiring therapy ( p = 0.21 ) . we conclude that the routine use of corticosteroids for the prevention of postextubation stridor during uncomplicated pediatric intensive care airway management is unwarranted . 
emerging techniques in the diagnosis of sinusitis . in recent years , the high prevalence of chronic sinusitis has been noted in isolation and in association with bronchial asthma , aspirin sensitivity , and perennial rhinitis . many sinus-associated symptoms arise from nasal rather than sinus pathology ; thus , it is important to detect the presence , extent , and nature of any disease within the sinus cavities . conventional plain radiographs have limited sensitivity and have been supplanted by more widespread use of computerized tomography . the role of other modalities such as ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging has not yet been completely determined . other tests such as cytology and endoscopy can detect the presence of infection without the need for invasive antral puncture . practitioners should consider the impact of a negative imaging test on their therapeutic plan and order tests on that basis . 
a pilot study of pemirolast in patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis . pemirolast is a potent , long-acting , orally effective antiallergic agent evaluated for clinical activity in prevention of symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis . it was evaluated in a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled parallel group in season trials to test its safety , tolerance , and prophylactic activity . thirty-one patients with a history of fall seasonal allergic rhinitis were treated for 6 weeks with pemirolast , 50 mg bid , or placebo beginning approximately 2 weeks before the onset of the ragweed season in atlanta . daily evaluation of symptom scores disclosed statistically significantly less sneezing , rhinorrhea , and stuffy nose during treatment with pemirolast . there was , however , no difference for other evaluated symptoms or for the use of rescue medicines . there were no side effects during this short study . this preliminary study indicates that pemirolast may warrant further evaluation for the treatment of allergic rhinitis . 
central neurogenic hyperventilation in invasive laryngeal carcinoma . we describe a patient with central neurogenic hyperventilation secondary to extension of a laryngeal tumor into the base of the brain , resulting in extrinsic compression of the medulla . such an association has not been previously described . unique features which distinguish this patient from previously reported cases are emphasized . possible mechanisms involved in pathogenesis , as well as types of therapy , are outlined . 
nasopalatine duct cyst : an analysis of 334 cases . the nasopalatine duct cyst ( npdc ) is the most common cyst of nonodontogenic origin in the maxilla . however , the information reported about this lesion consists primarily of small surveys and isolated case reports . the purpose of this retrospective investigation was to gather demographic , clinical , and histologic data on a large series of npdcs , and to compare the findings with those of previous studies . in this study , the overall mean age at diagnosis was 42.5 years , and there was a slight male predilection . the mean radiographic diameter was 17.1 mm , but 75 % of the lesions were 20 mm or less in diameter . symptoms were present in at least 70 % of the cases . only 28 % of the specimens contained respiratory epithelium . there was no correlation between radiographic size , patient 's age , presenting symptoms , or type of epithelium . recurrence was noted in only 2 % of the cases . 
reversible hearing loss from cerebellopontine angle tumors . we report two patients who presented with a dramatic recovery from severe sensorineural hearing loss after total surgical removal of cerebellopontine angle tumors ( meningioma and jugular foramen neurinoma ) . the factors that differentiate these " non-acoustic tumors " in relation to the prognosis for hearing are discussed . a surgical approach that maintains the labyrinthine structure and preserves the arachnoid membrane of the superior cerebellopontine angle cistern during tumor removal is stressed . 
adult peripheral neuroepithelioma in meckel 's cave . a case of peripheral neuroepithelioma arising from the trigeminal nerve in meckel 's cave is presented . the discussion emphasizes the pathological criteria for the diagnosis of a peripheral neuroepithelioma and the current controversy about the classification of this and related tumors . 
loracarbef concentrations in middle ear fluid . loracarbef concentrations in plasma and middle ear fluid ( mef ) were measured in specimens obtained approximately 2 h after doses of 7.5 or 15 mg/kg . the mean + / - standard deviation concentrations in mef were 2.0 + / - 2.6 mg/liter ( 48 % of the concentration in plasma ) after the smaller dose and 3.9 + / - 2.6 mg/liter ( 42 % of the concentration in plasma ) after the larger dose . with the larger dose , the concentrations in mef were greater than the mic for 90 % of strains of the usual pathogens of acute otitis media tested in 16 of 17 specimens . 
nasal midline masses in infants and children . dermoids , encephaloceles , and gliomas . nasal dermoids , gliomas , and encephaloceles are uncommon congenital lesions that result from aberrant embryologic development . we have treated 46 children with these nasal lesions . in view of the potential intracranial connection , patients are at risk for intracranial infection , and early surgical correction is thus imperative . neuroimaging studies may help to predict intracranial involvement . 
endoscopic and computed tomographic findings in ostiomeatal sinus disease . previously , there has been no organized format for the documentation of the findings of the nasal endoscopy and the coronal computed tomographic sinus scan . the findings from 100 nasal endoscopies and computed tomographic scans were reviewed and summarized . the summarized findings were incorporated into two forms -- " the nasal endoscopy exam form " and the " computed tomographic scan findings [ form ] " -- utilizing computerized graphics techniques . the forms are presented along with their illustration of pathologic ostiomeatal findings . these forms represent a method of documentation of nasal endoscopic and coronal computed tomographic scan findings . they may be used in the demonstration of disease , treatment , planning , resident training , communication of information , and assisting in a future classification of degrees of severity of sinus disease . 
circulating c1q-binding macromolecules and their relationship to radiographic characteristics of laryngeal cancer . circulating macromolecules capable of binding the first component of complement ( c1qbm ) may represent subcellular components of tissue/tumor debris generated from rapidly proliferating invasive disease . thirty-eight patients were randomly selected from 74 untreated patients with laryngeal cancer on the basis of disease stage and c1qbm levels . c1qbm levels were correlated with computed tomographic evidence of tumor necrosis and/or thyroid cartilage destruction . results show that patients with stage iii/iv disease with tissue necrosis and/or cartilage invasion had demonstrably higher c1qbm levels than did individuals with similarly staged disease with no evidence of these radiographically defined characteristics ( 120 + / - 81 micrograms/ml vs 18 + / - 15 micrograms/ml ) ; the strongest association was reflected by the area of necrosis within regional lymph metastases . elevated c1qbm level in patients with stage iii/iv laryngeal cancer thus reflects highly aggressive disease , which is less responsive to therapeutic intervention . 
radiotherapy . the mainstay in the treatment of early glottic carcinoma . early squamous cell carcinoma of the glottis may be effectively treated with surgery or radiation therapy . controversy exists as to whether radiation therapy effects survival at the expense of vocal function by ultimately requiring more total laryngectomies for salvage of local tumor recurrence . this study reviewed the medical records of 185 patients with t1 or t2 , no invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the glottis treated with primary radiation therapy between 1969 and 1984 . all patients were followed up for a minimum of 5 years after completion of therapy . one hundred sixty-one patients met the criteria for local control analysis . radiation therapy controlled disease in 93 % ( 105 of 113 ) of patients with t1 lesions and 73 % ( 38 of 48 ) of those with t2 tumors . ultimate control of disease for t1 and t2 lesions , including surgical salvage , was 111 ( 98 % ) of 113 and 44 ( 92 % ) of 48 patients , respectively . the rate of successful surgical salvage was 75 % ( t1 ) and 70 % ( t2 ) . the t2 lesions with impaired vocal cord mobility or anterior commissure disease were identified as being at increased risk for recurrence after primary radiation therapy . overall voice preservation was 90 % . our data demonstrate that radiation therapy effects disease-free survival rates that are comparable to those produced by surgery , without sacrificing voice . although a small percentage of patients with selected early glottic lesions may be more effectively treated with primary conservation surgery , these data do not support a change in philosophy concerning primary treatment of early glottic cancer with radiation therapy . 
reconstruction of pediatric larynx and upper trachea with the sternohyoid rotary door flap . the sternohyoid myocutaneous flap , the rotary door flap , is optimally oriented to serve in laryngotracheal reconstruction . it provides immediate , highly vascularized lining and structural support to the augmented airway . therefore , it is one of the most versatile alternative methods available for surgical reconstruction of the stenosed larynx and trachea . thirteen of 14 patients who were managed by the rotary door flap technique have been successfully decannulated . the features of the flap and the surgical technique are described with reference to modifications in the pediatric age group . 
noncongenital hereditary hearing loss in children . prospective documentation . younger siblings of children with sensorineural hearing loss of possible hereditary cause underwent interval audiologic examination . seven siblings ( in unrelated families ) were found to have progressive sensorineural hearing loss despite early audiograms documenting normal hearing levels for age . continued testing of these children allowed for early identification and intervention . we advocate regular otolaryngologic and audiologic follow-up even after normal audiologic assessments are made for younger siblings of children with documented sensorineural hearing loss , unless a definite nongenetic origin of the hearing loss in the older child is known . recessive sensorineural hearing loss with onset in infancy or childhood may present with no antecedent family history and with normal behavioral audiograms early in life . 
usefulness of immunotherapy in patients with severe summer hay fever uncontrolled by antiallergic drugs objective -- to evaluate the efficacy and safety of immunotherapy ( hyposensitisation ) in patients with severe summer hay fever . design -- a randomised , double blind , placebo controlled study of a biologically standardised depot grass pollen extract . setting -- allergy clinic , royal brompton and national heart hospital , london . patients -- 40 adults ( mean age 35 years ) with a history of severe grass pollen allergy uncontrolled by standard antiallergic drugs . patients with perennial asthma were specifically excluded . intervention -- patients were randomised to receive either an active preparation ( alutard sq , a grass pollen ( phleum pratense ) extract ) or placebo at a rate of two subcutaneous injections a week in increasing doses until a maintenance dose was reached . this maintenance dose was given once a month . main outcome measures -- clinical efficacy was evaluated by symptom and drug diary cards , visual analogue scores during the grass pollen season , and a postseasonal assessment by the patients and a doctor . conjunctival and skin sensitivity to local allergen provocation was measured before and after eight months of treatment . results -- there was a highly significant decrease ( median alutard sq v median placebo ( 95 % confidence interval for difference between medians ] in total symptom scores ( p = 0.001 ) in the alutard sq treated group ( 360 v 928 ( 238 to 825 ] . significant differences were also found in total drug use ( p = 0.002 , 129 v 627 ( 178 to 574 ] . visual analogue symptom scores were also reduced in the active group ( p = 0.02 , 2.2 v 5.5 ( -4.8 to -0.5 ] . the postseasonal assessment , by either the doctor or the patients , showed a large improvement ( p less than 0.001 ) in favour of alutard sq . provocation tests showed a greater than 10-fold reduction for the active group in immediate conjunctival allergen sensitivity ( p = 0.001 ) , a 40 % decrease in early phase response ( p = 0.02 ) , and a 57 % decrease in the late phase ( p = 0.001 ) cutaneous response after intradermal allergen . a total of 523 active injections were given . there was one systemic reaction at 10 minutes after injection , which was rapidly reversed with intramuscular adrenaline . there was one mild delayed urticarial reaction at 2 1/2 hours . conclusion -- immunotherapy is effective in patients with severe summer hay fever , but immediate anaphylactic reactions limit its use to specialised centres . patient selection is extremely important , and chronic perennial asthma should be specifically excluded . as serious reactions occur within minutes a two hour wait for all patients after each injection seems unnecessary . 
the neck-eye reflex in patients with reduced vestibular and optokinetic function . it is accepted that the neck-eye loop ( cervico-ocular reflex , cor ) is enhanced following loss of vestibular function and that this helps to restore gaze stability during head movements . in this paper we address the question of which structures and/or mechanisms may participate in such plastic enhancement by investigating the cor in 2 patients with absent vestibular function and reduced smooth pursuit-optokinetic eye movements ( sp-okn ) . the patients had multisystem atrophy involving the vestibular system and the cerebellum . the cor ( elicited by angular motion of the trunk relative to the fixed head and angular motion of the head relative to the fixed trunk ) was not enhanced in these 2 patients when compared with normal subjects , in contrast to previous findings in a group of patients with absent vestibular function alone . measurements of slow phase eye movement velocity during sp-okn stimuli and during combined cor-okn stimulation ( head oscillation relative to the stationary trunk in the light ) showed identical values in these two conditions , which indicates that the neck-eye loop did not contribute to gaze stability during head movements . the absence of plastic enhancement of the cor in these patients may be secondary to interruption of sp-okn pathways at various possible sites and/or to involvement of the vestibulocerebellum , which is known to mediate adaptive plasticity in the vestibulo-ocular reflex . 
patrick watson-williams and the concept of focal sepsis in the sinuses : an historical caveat for functional endoscopic sinus surgery . from 1900 to 1940 the theory of focal sepsis was invoked to justify a number of dubious surgical procedures . surgeons believed they were acting rationally . patrick watson-williams advocated suction exploration of the paranasal sinuses for mental patients , claiming to cure criminal insanity by sphenoidotomy . favourable contemporary reviews showed international approval . the rational basis of treatment was emphasised , but there was little systematic evaluation of outcome . current enthusiasm for functional endoscopic sinus surgery is also based on a rational approach , logical deductions from pathophysiological ' facts ' . outcome has still not been evaluated scientifically . we should learn from history . treatment should not be based too readily on what seems to be rational now . ideas of physiology and pathology change . what seems logical today may appear ridiculous tomorrow . careful analysis of outcome , preferably by controlled clinical trials , is needed as a rational treatment requires empirical validation just as much as any other . 
management of posterior epistaxis with the use of the fibreoptic nasolaryngoscope . posterior epistaxis is usually treated by repeated nasal packing and in failed situations by ligation of feeding arteries with considerable morbidity and mortality . the most logical approach should be location of the bleeding site and arrest of haemorrhage by local treatment . the exact location of the bleeding area can be identified in actively bleeding noses with the fibreoptic naso-laryngoscope and the bleeding arrested by chemical , or thermal cautery and in failed situations by using small nasal packs confined to the bleeding site . this approach to the management of posterior epistaxis is effective and reduces the duration of hospital stay . it significantly reduces the discomfort to the patient . the current practice of indiscriminate blind nasal packing in the hope of arresting nasal haemorrhage by incidental pressure on the bleeding site should be re-evaluated . 
attachment of bacteria to tonsillar epithelium during acute tonsillitis . epithelial cells were scraped from the tonsillar surfaces of 15 patients with current acute tonsillitis ( at ) and of 15 individually matched healthy persons . the cellular mixture was stained with acridine orange and bacteria seen to be attached to the epithelial cells under the fluorescent microscope were calculated . conventional bacterial culturing was also performed simultaneously . significantly more bacteria were attached to epithelial cells from the at group than from the controls ( greater than 10 attached bacteria per cell p = 0.0103 , greater than 50 attached bacteria per cell p = 0.0212 ) . in vivo determination of bacteria attached to epithelial cells offers prospects of gaining a better understanding of the aetiopathogenesis of acute tonsillitis . 
radiation-induced cranial nerve palsy : hypoglossal nerve and vocal cord palsies . cranial nerve palsies are an unexpected complication of radiotherapy for head and neck tumours . we present a case of this radiation-induced cranial palsy . an 18-year-old female with nasopharyngeal carcinoma developed a right hypoglossal nerve palsy 42 months after cancericidal doses of radiotherapy . in addition , she developed a bilateral vocal cord palsy 62 months after therapy . follow-up over four years has demonstrated no evidence of tumour recurrence and no sign of neurological improvement . 
massive metastasis from squamous carcinoma of the tonsil . squamous carcinomas of the oro-pharynx are associated with a high incidence of distant metastases at post-mortem . a case of a massive distant metastasis from a squamous cell carcinoma of the tonsil is presented . this occurred despite excellent local control . the pathology and the possible management implications are discussed . 
ototoxicity of cis-platinum and its relationship to eye colour . the following hypothesis is presented : that the susceptibility of an individual patient to hearing loss as a result of cis-platinum administration can be predicted on the basis of eye colour . the rationale is that the melanin content of the inner ears is related to that of the eyes ; dark eyes contain more melanin than light-coloured eyes ; and melanin causes the accumulation of the ototoxic drug within the inner ear . hence those with dark eyes will suffer greater damage to the hearing than those with pale eyes . an investigation that confirmed this hypothesis is reported . in addition to cochlear damage there is a significant likelihood of damage to the auditory nerve as a result of the treatment . 
muscle fibre type and habitual snoring . although anatomical abnormalities of the upper airway have been recorded in some patients with obstructive sleep apnoea ( osa ) , a muscle tone dysregulation also seems to have an important role in this disorder . since habitual snoring is the initial stage of osa , the structural characteristics of upper airway muscles ( medium pharyngeal constrictor muscle [ mpcm ] ) from 13 men ( 9 non-snorers and 4 habitual snorers ) were studied . mpcm fibre structure in non-snorers was broadly similar to that in normal limb muscles , with the exception that fibre diameters were smaller for all fibre types . compared with limb muscles , mpcm had a smaller proportion of type iib fibres and a higher proportion of types i and iia fibres . mpcm in habitual snorers had an abnormal distribution of fibre types ( low percentage of type i and type iib fibres and high percentage of type iia fibres ) compared with non-snorers ( p less than 0.001 ) and the type iia fibres were hypertrophic . no myopathic or neurogenic changes were seen . two possible hypotheses explain the abnormal distribution of fibre types in snorers . first , a constitutionally determined reduction of slow alpha-motor neurons induces an adaptive transformation of type iib to type iia fibres and a hypertrophy of type iia fibres ; or , second , motor neurons change their patterns of discharge and , hence , of activation , and modify fibre-type distribution of mpcm as an adaptation to the anatomical characteristic of upper airway and habitual snoring . 
meniere 's disease : an immune complex-mediated illness ? the cause of meniere 's disease is unknown . recent clinical research suggests that one etiology is immune-mediated damage to the inner ear . the diagnosis of autoimmune meniere 's syndrome is largely based on history , response to steroids , or results of nonspecific laboratory tests such as serological studies . polyethylene glycol ( peg ) assay was used to determine levels of circulating immune complexes ( cic ) in 30 patients with meniere 's disease and 20 control subjects . patients with meniere 's disease had a statistically significant elevation of serum circulating immune complexes when compared to the control group . this suggests that cics may be involved in the pathogenesis of meniere 's disease , either as a direct cause of damage , or as a by-product of an underlying autoimmune abnormality . therapeutic implications include use of plasmapheresis to remove the complexes or cic monitoring to serve as a marker for treatment efficacy . 
argon laser stapedotomy . lasers have been used in otology for 10 years . there have been reports of excellent hearing results using laser energy in surgery for otosclerosis . we used the argon laser in 75 consecutive primary stapedotomy procedures . the postoperative air-bone gap was 10 db or less in 87 % of patients and 20 db or less in 95 % . one ear ( 1.5 % ) had no postoperative hearing secondary to a granulomatous reaction . complications were otherwise uncommon and mild . most patients were treated on an outpatient basis . our results compare favorably with other reports of laser surgery for otosclerosis . we conclude that excellent hearing results can be obtained using the argon laser for stapedotomy procedures . 
intracranial complications of paranasal sinusitis : a combined institutional review . intracranial complications of paranasal sinusitis constitute true surgical and medical emergencies . the charts of all patients ( n = 649 ) admitted for acute or chronic sinusitis to the university of minnesota hospital and to the university of michigan medical center during a 13-year period ( 1975 to 1988 ) were retrospectively reviewed to determine the incidence of complications . the clinical presentation , bacteriology , involved sinuses , influencing host factors , white blood cell count on presentation , length of hospitalization , and postinterventional complications are presented . twenty-four patients with intracranial complications from paranasal sinusitis are studied for an incidence of 3.7 % . aggressive medical and semi-emergent surgical intervention are required to prevent excessive morbidity and/or mortality . intracranial complications included subdural empyema , frontal lobe abscesses , intrahemispheric abscesses , cavernous and superior sagittal sinus thrombosis , and osteomyelitis . 
prognostic factors in craniofacial surgery . from 1979 to 1989 , 21 patients underwent craniofacial resection for malignancies involving the anterior skull base . histologic types included 8 squamous cell carcinomas , 3 chondrosarcomas , 2 melanomas , 2 basal cell carcinomas , 2 adenocarcinomas , 2 poorly differentiated carcinomas , 1 malignant schwannoma , and 1 malignant hemangiopericytoma . survival was 57 % , with follow-up of 41 months . a 50 % complication rate included osteomyelitis , cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea , meningitis , brain abscess , epidural abscess , and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone . recurrent disease occurred in 9 patients ( 41 % ) , the most reliable predictor being dural invasion indicated preoperatively by ct scan or at operation . patients demonstrating dural involvement ( n = 9 ) had a 22 % survival rate , while patients without ( n = 12 ) had a survival rate of 83 % . the impact of dural invasion on long-term survival is emphasized . though complications were frequent , long-term results were favorable . 
the response to human ril-1 , ril-2 , and rtnf in the middle ear of guinea pigs . human recombinant interleukin 1 ( ril-1 ) , interleukin 2 ( ril-2 ) , or tumor necrosis factor ( rtnf ) were injected transtympanically into the middle ear of normal guinea pigs . effusion volume and cellular content were determined after sacrifice and rapid dissection of the ear . by 24 hours , ril-2 ( 100 u ) had produced a cellular effusion ( 77 % to 92 % polymorphonuclear neutrophil leukocytes ) , which cleared by 72 hours . rtnf ( 10 u ) yielded a cellular effusion ( 12 % to 67 % lymphocytes ) at 24 hours , which cleared by 48 hours . ril-1 ( 100 u ) did not produce significant effusion when compared to control . ril-2 and rtnf cause an inflammatory effusion in the middle ear . to the extent they are generated in the middle ear during otitis media , these cytokines have the potential to contribute to the pathogenesis of otitis media with effusion . 
detection of epstein-barr virus dna in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue of nasopharyngeal carcinoma using polymerase chain reaction and in situ hybridization . the polymerase chain reaction method for amplification of dna in formalin-fixed , paraffin-embedded tissue sections was used to detect epstein-barr virus dna in nasopharyngeal carcinomas from japanese patients . thirty-one cases of nasopharyngeal carcinoma and 8 cases of lymph node metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma were studied . detection rates of epstein-barr virus in various types of nasopharyngeal carcinoma according to the world health organization classification were as follows : 10 of 10 undifferentiated carcinomas , 8 of 13 nonkeratinizing carcinomas , and 5 of 7 keratinizing carcinomas . eight lymph node metastases , for which the primary was positive for epstein-barr virus , also contained epstein-barr virus dna . by in situ hybridization using a biotinylated epstein-barr virus probe , it was clearly demonstrated that epstein-barr virus dna was localized in the nuclei of the neoplastic cells . the clinical features of nasopharyngeal carcinoma with or without epstein-barr virus were not different . these results demonstrate that nasopharyngeal carcinoma in japanese patients is closely associated with epstein-barr virus infection , similar to nasopharyngeal carcinoma of other endemic and nonendemic areas . 
the effect of indoor air pollutants on otitis media and asthma in children . this case-control study investigated the possible association between home environmental air pollutants and their effect on otitis media and asthma in children . patients with physician-diagnosed otitis ( n = 125 , 74 % response ) , with asthma ( n = 137 , 80 % response ) , and controls ( n = 237 , 72 % response ) from a private pediatric practice seen between october 1986 and may 1987 were studied . a questionnaire inquired about housing characteristics ( i.e. , age , insulation , heating system ) and sources of indoor air pollution such as cigarette smoking , use of woodburning stoves , household pets , etc . analysis of the responses confirmed previous findings of significant relationships between maternal smoking ( p = .021 ) , and the presence of pets ( p = .034 ) and the occurrence of asthma . a newly reported relationship between exposure to woodburning stoves and the occurrence of otitis ( p less than .05 ) was reported . this implicates yet another risk factor ( wood burning ) in the etiology of otitis media . 
immunologic defects in patients with refractory sinusitis . sixty-one patients with chronic sinusitis who were referred for an allergy evaluation were evaluated for immunologic competence including assessment of quantitative serum immunoglobulin levels , igg subclass levels , and response to pneumococcal and haemophilus influenzae vaccines . in addition to chronic sinus disease , recurrent otitis media and asthma exacerbation were common problems in this group . five patients had an elevated age-adjusted ige level and 22 patients had positive prick tests to one or more environmental inhalants ; these findings suggest an allergic component in this subgroup . twelve additional patients had highly reactive intradermal tests to common environmental allergens , which also may be clinically significant for underlying atopy . eleven patients had low immunoglobulin levels , 6 had low immunoglobulin levels and vaccine hyporesponsiveness , and 17 had poor vaccine response only . thus , 34 of 61 patients with refractory sinusitis had abnormal results on immune studies , with depressed igg3 levels and poor response to pneumococcal antigen 7 being most common . in addition to allergy , immunologic incompetence may be an important etiologic factor in patients with chronic , refractory sinusitis . 
age-related balance changes in hearing-impaired children . this study compared balance skills of hearing-impaired children with those of hearing children in order to determine whether a deficit in balance exists in hearing-impaired children and to ascertain whether this deficit is age-related . twenty-eight hearing-impaired subjects were chosen as a sample of convenience from the pennsylvania school for the deaf and placed into one of three age groups . ten subjects were in the 4.5 to 6.5-year-old age group , 8 in the 8 - to 10-year-old age group , and 10 in the 12.5 to 14.5-year-old age group . selection criteria included bilateral sensorineural hearing loss of greater than or equal to 65 db and normal intelligence ( iq greater than or equal to 80 ) . balance was measured by the use of the balance subtest of the bruininks-oseretsky test of motor proficiency . for each age group , a z test was used to compare the subjects ' scores with the balance subtest standard scores . the results showed that for each age group , the mean score for the hearing-impaired children was lower than the standard score . both older groups had significantly higher scores than the youngest group , but the mean scores of the older groups were not significantly different . no difference between the subjects ' balance scores and the balance subtest standard scores was found among the age groups , suggesting that the balance deficit was not age-related . gender differences were not found for balance scores . 
