cerebellopontine angle lipoma in a teenager . lipomas of the cerebellopontine angle are very rare lesions . to date , 18 patients have been reported , 17 of whom were adults . a second child is described with cerebellopontine angle lipoma . 
trisomy 13 : a new recurring chromosome abnormality in acute leukemia . a new recurring chromosome abnormality was identified in 8 of 621 consecutive successfully karyotyped adults with de novo acute leukemia . these eight patients had trisomy 13 as the sole cytogenetic abnormality . on central morphologic review , five cases were classified as subtypes of acute myeloid leukemia , one as acute mixed lymphoid and myeloid leukemia , one as acute lymphoid leukemia , and one as acute undifferentiated leukemia . blasts of all eight cases expressed one or more myeloid differentiation antigens . three also expressed t-lineage-associated antigens ; however , none of these had rearrangement of the t-cell receptor beta , gamma , or delta genes . four of six cases tested were tdt positive . all eight patients with trisomy 13 were treated with intensive induction chemotherapy ; only three entered a short-lived complete remission . survival of patients with trisomy 13 ranged from 0.5 to 14.7 months , and was significantly shorter than that of the remaining patients ( median 9.5 v 16.2 months , p = .007 ) . we conclude that trisomy 13 is a rare , recurring clonal chromosome abnormality in acute leukemia associated with a poor prognosis . malignant transformation of an immature hematopoietic precursor cell is suggested by the expression of antigens characteristic of both the myeloid and lymphoid lineage , the high incidence of tdt positivity , and the morphologic heterogeneity in these leukemias . 
abnormalities of the long arm of chromosome 6 in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia . to determine the biologic significance of the structural rearrangements of the long arm of chromosome 6 ( 6q ) in acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) at diagnosis , we studied 412 consecutive children whose leukemic cell chromosomes had been completely banded and identified 45 ( 11 % ) children with this abnormality . the 45 cases were divided into del ( 6q ) only ( n = 11 ) , del ( 6q ) and numerical abnormalities ( n = 4 ) , del ( 6q ) and structural abnormalities ( n = 23 ) , and 6q translocations ( n = 7 ) . the breakpoints of del ( 6q ) were subgrouped : del ( 6 ) ( q15q21 ) in 11 cases , del ( 6 ) ( q13q21 ) in six , del ( 6 ) ( q21q23 ) in four , del ( 6 ) ( q15 ) in four , del ( 6 ) ( q15q23 ) in three , and other deletions in 10 cases . notably , all these deletions encompassed the 6q21 band , suggesting that this might be the locus of a recessive tumor suppressor gene , the absence of which contributes to malignant transformation or proliferation . among the seven children with 6q translocations , a previously unidentified nonrandom translocation , t ( 6 ; 12 ) ( q21 ; p13 ) was noted in two cases with an early pre-b immunophenotype . clinical features and event-free survival were similar among children with or without 6q abnormalities . overall , children with 6q abnormalities were less likely than those without the abnormality to have a pre-b immunophenotype ( p = .03 ) . t-cell immunophenotypes were equally represented in cases with or without 6q abnormalities . however , all four children with del ( 6q ) and a 12p abnormality had early pre-b all and all three children with del ( 6q ) and a 9p abnormality had a t-cell immunophenotype . the lack of specificity for a particular immunophenotype may imply that the gene or genes affected by 6q abnormalities are broadly active in the multistep process of lymphoid leukemogenesis . the relatively high frequency of microscopically visible del ( 6q ) indicates the need for molecular studies to identify cases with submicroscopic deletions . 
the role of cellular maturation in neutrophil heterogeneity . previous studies have shown that many neutrophil ( pmn ) characteristics are heterogeneous but the origin of pmn heterogeneity is unknown . it is unclear if pmn functional heterogeneity is secondary to maturational differences or due to distinct subpopulations of cells that possess different functional capacities . the pmn 31d8 antigen is a useful probe for evaluation of pmn subpopulations . the majority of pmns ( approximately 85 % ) exhibit a high intensity fluorescence after 31d8 monoclonal antibody ( moab ) labeling ( 31d8 enriched or " bright " pmns ) as determined by flow cytometric analysis . these cells are more functional than cells with low intensity fluorescence ( 31d8 diminished or " dull " pmns ) . various immunologic , clonogenic and functional techniques were used to study the expression of the 31d8 antigen in hl-60 cells and myeloid cells in order to evaluate antigenic and functional heterogeneity during morphologic maturation . the results of this study indicate that the percentage of 31d8 antigen positive ( 31d8 antigen enriched and diminished ) bone marrow cells increases from 20 + / - 11 % in myeloblast cells to 68 + / - 10 % in promyelocytes , 93 + / - 2 % in myelocytes and 99 + / - 1 % in bands and pmns . 31d8 antigen enriched cells first appear at the myelocyte stage ( 32 + / - 10 % ) and increase in bands ( 52 + / - 13 % ) , marrow pmns ( 62 + / - 13 % ) and peripheral blood pmns ( 88 + / - 4 % ) . these data indicate that the heterogeneous expression of 31d8 antigen in pmns is due , at least in part , to maturational differences within the pmn population and raise the possibility that other heterogeneously expressed pmn characteristics are also maturationally derived . they also suggest that 31d8 antigenic expression may be a more precise indicator of myeloid functional maturation than maturation as identified by cellular morphology . 
early detection of gastric cancer objective -- to see whether investigation of dyspeptic patients aged over 40 after their first consultation with the general practitioner would increase the proportions with early and operable gastric cancers . design -- prospective study of gastric cancer in dyspeptic patients aged over 40 from a defined population . setting -- 10 general practices ( six in central birmingham , four in sandwell ) ; the queen elizabeth hospital , birmingham ; and sandwell district general hospital . patients -- 2659 patients aged 40 or over referred with dyspepsia . main outcome measure -- increase in early and operable gastric cancers detected in middle aged patients with dyspepsia . results -- disease was identified in 1992 patients ( 75 % ) . fifty seven were found to have gastric cancer , 36 being treated by potentially curative resection , including 15 with early cancer . conclusions -- the investigation of dyspeptic patients over 40 at first attendance can increase the proportion of early gastric cancers detected to 26 % and the proportion of operable cases to 63 % . such a policy has the potential to reduce mortality from gastric cancer in the population . 
renal carcinoma in a solitary kidney . we studied the clinical and pathological features of 26 patients with renal carcinoma of a solitary kidney , including 6 treated at this hospital . four patients had a contracted kidney and 22 had previously undergone nephrectomy . partial nephrectomy was performed in 16 patients , enucleation of the tumour in 5 and radical nephrectomy in 5 because of the size of the tumour . ex vivo surgery was carried out in 4 patients . the duration of ischaemia ranged from 15 to 365 min but was longer in those who underwent ex vivo surgery ( 149 to 365 min ) . of the 21 patients who underwent partial nephrectomy or enucleation , the serum creatinine level increased ( greater than or equal to 2.0 mg/dl ) post-operatively in 16 patients , of whom 9 required temporary haemodialysis . no recurrence has been noted in those who underwent partial nephrectomy , but 1 patient who underwent enucleation of the tumour developed a solitary pancreatic metastasis 2 years 6 months after surgery and was treated by a partial pancreatectomy . kidney-preserving surgical procedures are considered to improve the quality of life , but careful follow-up is necessary . 
cell cycling in bladder carcinoma determined by monoclonal antibody ki67 . current methods of predicting prognosis in transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder fail to provide consistently reliable information about future tumour behaviour . the monoclonal antibody ki67 recognises an antigen present in actively dividing cells and ki67 reactivity has been shown to correlate with conventional prognostic indicators in several tumours . in this study , ki67 antibody was used to determine the proportions of cells undergoing active division in 26 transitional cell carcinomas of the bladder . the proportion of cells stained in muscle invasive tumours ( 12.3 + / - 5.4 % ) was significantly greater than in superficial tumours ( 4.3 + / - 1.9 % ) and poorly differentiated tumours showed significantly greater proportions of cells staining compared with well or moderately well differentiated tumours . these results show that ki67 reactivity correlates with high tumour stage and poor differentiation . ki67 staining provides an easy method of determining tumour cell turnover that might provide additional prognostic information . 
superficial bladder cancer in patients under 40 years of age . efficacy of topical prophylaxis . in patients under the age of 40 years with primary superficial bladder cancer the efficacy of adjuvant topical treatment was the same as in elderly patients ( recurrences 23 % , progression rate 8 % ) . patients should therefore be treated on the basis of stage and grade of the tumour regardless of their age . 
pathological classification and follow-up of prostatic lesions initially diagnosed as " suspicious of malignancy " . sections from a series of prostatic specimens ( n = 44 ) in which the initial diagnosis implied a suspicion of malignancy were reviewed and the patients followed up ( group 1 ) . the aim was to categorise the morphological appearances according to current criteria and to determine the natural history of any pre-malignant lesions within this group . a " control " series of patients ( n = 40 ) in whom the primary diagnosis was benign were also reviewed and their course followed ( group 2 ) . the heterogeneity of the abnormalities in group 1 was striking . of the 44 cases , pre-malignant lesions were seen in 8 , microinvasive adenocarcinoma in 11 and lesions not now considered pre-malignant in the remaining 25 . none of the 8 patients with pre-malignant lesions developed clinical evidence of carcinoma over a follow-up period of 8 to 12 years . in contrast , 3 of the 11 diagnosed on review as having microscopic invasive adenocarcinoma developed clinically evident tumour within 5 years of surgery . of the 25 patients whose prostatic lesions were considered benign , 2 developed carcinoma 12 and 13 years after surgery . only 1 of the 40 patients in group 2 had a pre-malignant lesion and he did not develop tumour within 10 years . however , adenocarcinoma was diagnosed incidentally in 1 patient 3 years after surgery . it was concluded that there is a need to standardise interpretation and reporting of pre-malignant lesions and microscopic foci of adenocarcinoma in the prostate . the limited results on the course of pre-malignant lesions diagnosed incidentally in patients over 60 years of age do not indicate that follow-up would have prompted the early diagnosis of invasive disease . 
papillary cystic neoplasm of the pancreas : radiological and pathological characteristics in 11 cases . clinical charts , radiological features , macroscopic and microscopic findings , and clinical follow-up data were retrospectively reviewed in 11 patients with papillary cystic neoplasm of the pancreas ( pcnp ) . the patients were nine women and two men , aged from 13 to 51 years with a mean age of 25 years . the greatest diameter of the pcnps ranged from 2.5 cm to 14.0 cm with a mean size of 7.5 cm . six tumours were located in the tail of the pancreas , two in the body and three in the head . most patients complained of abdominal pain or a mass . ultrasonographic and/or computed tomography findings showed five solid , four mixed ( solid and cystic ) and two cystic types of tumour . angiographically , pcnp was either a hypovascular or mild hypervascular mass with a displacement of the surrounding vessels . no vascular encasement was seen . macroscopically all 11 tumours consisted of a well defined solid mass with degenerative change of various widths , including haemorrhage , necrosis or dystrophic calcification , and were represented by three radiological types of pcnp . the 11 patients with pcnp survived for from 3 to 253 months after curative resection without any signs of local recurrence or remote metastasis . pcnp usually affects the distal portion of the pancreas of young women . despite its huge size , pcnp should be explored with aggressive surgical intent because of the inherently good prognosis . 
ca72-4 : a new tumour marker for gastric cancer . to date , tumour markers for gastric cancer have proved unreliable . in this study the value of a new serum marker , ca72-4 , was compared with the serum activities of carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) and ca19-9 in a consecutive series of patients with gastric cancer . the results show that the ca72-4 assay is significantly better at separating stage i and ii disease from normal controls ( p less than 0.01 ) than cea ( n.s. ) or ca19-9 ( n.s. ) . ca72-4 also gave better differentiation between patients with positive and negative nodes ( p less than 0.01 ) and between those who were serosa positive and negative ( p less than 0.01 ) . cea differentiated between patients with positive and negative nodes ( p less than 0.05 ) but ca19-9 could not . ca19-9 and cea could not discriminate between patients who were serosa positive and negative . in this study , at a specificity of 95 per cent , the sensitivities of cea , ca19-9 and ca72-4 were 0.25 , 0.41 and 0.94 respectively . these preliminary findings indicate that ca72-4 is a reliable tumour marker of disease stage and activity in gastric cancer . further longitudinal studies are required for full evaluation of its clinical utility . 
failure of nutritional recovery after total gastrectomy . malnutrition is reported to be an inevitable consequence of total gastrectomy , although there are few data to support this contention . six patients of median age 63 years underwent total gastrectomy for malignancy . at follow-up ( median 45 months , range 25-60 months ) each patient was clinically tumour-free and underwent dietary assessment , faecal fat and nitrogen measurement and routine haematological testing . protein and fat stores , measured by neutron activation analysis and the tritiated water dilution technique , were compared with the same measurements made before operation and with predicted values . mean ( s.d. ) dietary intake ( 2224 ( 381 ) kcal day-1 and 81 ( 15 ) g protein day-1 ) met the patients ' estimated requirements . mean ( s.d. ) serum albumin and faecal nitrogen values were normal but there was notable steatorrhoea ( 21 ( 17 ) g day-1 ) . body composition measurements revealed profound deficiencies of body-weight ( p less than 0.02 ) , protein ( p less than 0.01 ) and fat ( p less than 0.02 ) before operation which were not corrected by an apparently curative total gastrectomy ( p less than 0.05 ) , although further deterioration was prevented . 
treatment of adenocarcinoma of the cardia with synchronous chemotherapy and radiotherapy . twenty-nine evaluable patients with adenocarcinoma of the cardia were treated with synchronously administered chemotherapy ( two cycles of 5-fluouracil and cisplatin and 30-36 gy of radiation to determine whether these tumours are responsive to such treatment . complete regression of tumour was observed endoscopically in 19 patients , and partial regression in four . fourteen patients had their tumours resected and in six no microscopic tumour was found in the specimen . nine patients received additional radiotherapy to a total dose of 54-60 gy instead of surgery . tumour response was associated with rapid reversal of dysphagia . only one patient required subsequent intervention for relief of dysphagia due to fibrous stricture . enhanced survival was associated with a complete endoscopic response to initial chemotherapy and radiotherapy , and a tumour of less than 5 cm in length . the median survival of responding patients was 15 months . synchronous chemotherapy and radiotherapy was of major palliative benefit in this series and merits further evaluation . 
manometric evaluation of jejunal limb after total gastrectomy and roux-orr anastomosis for gastric cancer . total gastrectomy with roux-orr anastomosis is frequently performed for gastric cancer . since intestinal motility of the roux limb has never been evaluated after this operation , pressure activity was investigated in the roux limb of ten patients ( aged 51-77 years ) who had undergone total gastrectomy and roux-orr reconstruction . investigations were carried out during a 6-h fast and 3 h after a 605 kcal mixed meal . during fasting only two patients had activity fronts and these were abnormal . all ten patients displayed non-propagating bursts of contractions and three had discrete clustered contractions and high amplitude jejunal contractions . the fed state was characterized by a severely reduced motor activity pattern and other abnormalities . total gastrectomy with roux-orr anastomoses provokes a relatively severe disturbance in intestinal activity . 
primary hepatic malignancy : the role of liver transplantation . between january 1982 and april 1989 , 134 patients with a suspected liver neoplasm were referred to the liver unit , queen elizabeth hospital , birmingham . in 105 ( 78 per cent ) , a primary hepatic neoplasm was histologically confirmed , and 47 patients ( 45 per cent ) proved to have primary hepatocellular carcinoma . twenty-nine orthotopic liver transplants were performed in 28 of these patients ( 27 per cent ) . twenty patients ( 71 per cent ) survived 30 days or longer ( median 11.5 months ; range 2-87 months ) , of whom nine are currently alive . we retrospectively analysed our data to determine the influence of preoperative evaluation , histological type and staging on outcome . computed tomography proved to be superior to intraoperative assessment ( 86 versus 58 per cent ) in diagnosing tumour positive nodes . patients with tumour negative lymphadenopathy had a better prognosis . postoperative stage i/ii had a median survival of 16 months ( range 3-87 months ) compared with 7.5 months ( range 2-20 months ) for stage iii . non-cirrhotic patients with hepatocellular carcinoma had the best prognosis ; cholangiocellular carcinoma and cirrhotic patients with hepatocelluar carcinoma had the worst outcome with no survivors beyond 1 year . because of the advanced stage of disease at the time of presentation , the value of liver transplantation in primary liver cancer is limited . for those presenting with advanced disease confined to the liver ( stage i/ii ) in whom conventional hepatic resection is not possible , significant benefit can be achieved in selected cases . 
intraoperative ultrasonography and the detection of liver metastases in patients with colorectal cancer . a total of 213 patients with carcinoma of the colon and rectum were examined to detect liver metastases . the study compared preoperative ultrasonography and inspection and palpation of the liver during surgery with intraoperative ultrasonography . preoperative ultrasonography , inspection and palpation identified 238 metastases in 42 patients . intraoperative ultrasonography detected 116 previously unrecognized metastatic tumours during 40 surgical procedures ( p less than 0.01 ) . high resolution intraoperative ultrasonography is safe and more accurate than preoperative imaging and surgical exploratory methods . the examination is simple to perform and success appears to be related to careful attention to detail . 
the effect of the gastrin receptor antagonist proglumide on survival in gastric carcinoma . gastric cancer remains a disease with a very poor prognosis , and there is no safe and effective form of therapy for advanced disease . evidence is now abundant to show that gastrin stimulates the growth of both gastric and colorectal cancer cells in vitro and in vivo , and that blockade of gastrin receptors can prolong survival in xenografted nude mice . we have thus performed a randomized , controlled study of the gastrin/cholecystokinin receptor antagonist proglumide as therapy in 110 patients with gastric carcinoma . proglumide had no overall effect on survival ( mantel-cox statistic = 0.5 , p = 0.48 ) . the 95 % confidence interval for the proglumide treated group was 260 to 474 days compared to 230 to 372 days for the control group . no significant difference was seen with proglumide , which has a relatively low affinity with the gastrin receptor and also has partial agonist activity . drugs that are far more specific and potent gastrin receptor antagonists are becoming available , which may have a greater effect on survival , and further clinical trials of such compounds are clearly indicated to determine the efficacy of hormonal control of gastrointestinal malignancy . 
induction chemotherapy with a new regimen alternating cisplatin , fluorouracil with mitomycin , hydroxyurea and bleomycin in carcinomas of nasopharynx or other sites of the head and neck region . sixty-six patients with locally advanced ( stages iii and iv ) carcinoma of the head and neck were treated with three cycles of induction chemotherapy , consisting of cisplatin , fluorouracil ( fu ) infusion , bleomycin , mitomycin , and hydroxyurea , followed by radiotherapy and/or surgery . there were 48 men and 18 women with a median age of 55 years ( range , 18 to 75 years ) and karnofsky performance status of 80 ( range , 40 to 90 ) . primary site was nasopharynx ( 28 patients ) , followed by larynx ( 12 ) and others ( 26 ) . forty-one ( 62 % ) patients were presented with stage iv disease . the response rate to induction chemotherapy was 27 % complete response , 50 % partial response , 20 % stable disease , and 3 % progressive disease . there was no significant difference in response rate between patients with cancer of nasopharynx or other sites ( p greater than 0.1 ) . survival was 61 % at 24 months . patients with cancer of nasopharynx had a better survival than those with other primaries ( p = 0.033 ) . toxicities from chemotherapy included alopecia ( 73 % ) , nausea/vomiting ( 66 % ) , leukopenia ( 54 % ) , stomatitis ( 36 % ) , anemia ( 32 % ) , thrombocytopenia ( 16 % ) , and diarrhea ( 9 % ) . grade iv toxicity was not observed . induction chemotherapy with this new regimen resulted in a high response rate but may not be superior to cisplatin and fu alone . it can be safely combined with radiotherapy as a potentially curative therapy in squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck . chemotherapy followed by radiation therapy may yield survival similar to radical surgery in laryngeal and other head and neck cancers . 
treatment of patients with isolated axillary nodal metastases from an occult primary carcinoma consistent with breast origin . the records of 42 patients who had axillary metastases compatible with a clinically occult breast primary were reviewed . forty patients had mammography performed as part of their evaluations . mastectomy yielded the primary tumor in one of 13 patients ; biopsy yielded positive results in one of five . among the 29 patients who did not undergo mastectomy , 16 received breast irradiation , and 13 were simply observed for signs of the primary tumor . for the patients who did not undergo mastectomy , the 5-year actuarial risk for appearance of a primary was 17 % in the irradiated group versus 57 % in the nonirradiated group ( p = 0.06 ) . patterns of failure are correlated with stage and local and systemic therapy . the results affirm our belief that patients with axillary metastases histologically consistent with breast tumor should be treated identically to patients with similar nodal stages and proven breast primaries . 
cancer chemotherapy after solid organ transplantation . to assess how well chemotherapy is tolerated after solid organ transplantation , we reviewed our experience at the children 's hospital of pittsburgh with five patients aged 1 to 12 years . four patients had a liver transplant , indications for which were hepatoblastoma in two patients , hepatic failure secondary to wilms ' tumor chemoradiotherapy in one patient , and familial intrahepatic cholestasis in one patient . a fifth patient received a cardiac transplant for unresectable angiosarcoma of the right atrium . after transplant , chemotherapy was given for the treatment of the primary malignancy in four of the patients . the patient with familial intrahepatic cholestasis received chemotherapy for secondary lymphoproliferative disease that had not responded to the cessation of immunosuppression . all patients other than this patient were on immunosuppression with prednisone ( 0.5 to 2 mg/kg daily ) and cyclosporine ( to maintain serum levels at 800 to 1000 ng/ml radioimmunoassay ) throughout the duration of chemotherapy . courses of chemotherapy included one or more of the following agents : adriamycin ( adr , 20 mg/m2 daily , three patients ) , cyclophosphamide ( ctx , 1 gm/m2 , one patient ) , cisplatin ( cddp , 90 mg/m2 , one patient ) , vincristine ( vcr , greater than 0.75 to 1.5 mg/m2 , three patients ) , actinomycin d ( act-d , 7.5 micrograms/kg , one patient ) , ifosfamide ( i , 1800 mg/m2 , one patient ) and etoposide ( vp-16 , 100 mg/m2 , one patient ) . all patients received greater than or equal to 3 courses ( range , 3 to 9 ; mean , 5 ) of chemotherapy every 3 to 4 weeks . dose reductions were made because of neutropenia in three patients but none were greater than 50 % . severe rejection was seen in one patient who had , however , manifested evidence of rejection prior to his first postoperative course of chemotherapy . no nephro or cardiac toxicity was seen . this preliminary experience suggests that chemotherapy is well tolerated after solid organ transplantation . 
autopsy-documented cure of multiple myeloma 14 years after m2 chemotherapy . multiple myeloma was diagnosed in a 65-year-old woman in 1974 who thereafter received five-drug m2 chemotherapy . all protein abnormalities subsequently returned to normal and serial bone marrow studies documented complete bone marrow remission . destructive bone lesions persisted radiographically , but did not progress . in 1987 , a localized sigmoid adenocarcinoma was resected . in 1988 , the patient presented with multiple brain metastases associated with a primary pulmonary adenocarcinoma that proved rapidly fatal . at autopsy , no evidence of multiple myeloma was found . this report describes the first tissue-documented cure of multiple myeloma 14 years after diagnosis and initiation of m2 chemotherapy . the possible association of multiple myeloma with other malignancies is also discussed . 
pulmonary metastases from ameloblastoma of the mandible treated with cisplatin , adriamycin , and cyclophosphamide . a case of delayed pulmonary metastases from an ameloblastoma of the mandible , which occurred 20 years after surgical resection of the primary tumor but with no recurrence at the primary site , is reported . combination chemotherapy using cisplatin , adriamycin , and cyclophosphamide has produced a very good clinical and radiologically documented response in this case . 
prospective evaluation of radiologically directed fine-needle aspiration biopsy of nonpalpable breast lesions . the application of fine-needle aspiration biopsy ( fnab ) to the diagnosis of nonpalpable breast lesions was evaluated with a new method which uses standard needle localization under mammographic guidance to assure accurate sampling by fnab . this method was prospectively applied to 100 mammographically detected breast lesions in 100 women ( mean age , 53 years ) . all 100 patients underwent surgical excision of these nonpalpable lesions after cytologic aspiration . sufficient aspirated material was obtained for cytologic diagnosis from 91 patients ( 91 % ) . the histologic and cytologic interpretations were then compared . twenty malignancies were ultimately diagnosed by histology ( 12 invasive ductal carcinoma , six ductal carcinoma in situ , and two lobular carcinoma in situ ) , of which 17 had been cytologically diagnosed . there were no false-positive diagnoses of malignancy by fnab . false-negative readings ( 3.3 % ) included two cases of lobular carcinoma in situ and one case of ductal carcinoma in situ . this technique thus demonstrated a sensitivity of 85 % , specificity of 100 % , and overall diagnostic accuracy of 96.7 % for the nonsurgical detection of malignancy in nonpalpable breast lesions . these results suggest that the established safety , reliability , and cost-effectiveness of fnab can be maintained in this clinical setting . this procedure may obviate the need for open surgical biopsy in those patients with an unequivocal diagnosis of malignancy . it can also be done using standard techniques and equipment available in many community hospitals . 
sacral plexus injury after radiotherapy for carcinoma of cervix . a 42-year-old woman developed lower extremity weakness and sensory loss 1 year after external and intracavitary radiotherapy for stage ib carcinoma of cervix . she has been followed for 5 years posttreatment , and the neurologic abnormalities have persisted , but no evidence of recurrent carcinoma has been found . we believe this to be a rare case of sacral plexus radiculopathy developing as a late complication after radiotherapy . suggestions are made for improving the radiotherapy technique to prevent this complication in future cases . 
relationship of 4f2 antigen with local growth and metastatic potential of squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx . the 4f2 antigen is a cell-membrane glycoprotein which arises early in the g0-g1 phases of the cell cycle . this molecule is present in all established human cell lines and most malignant human cells . the authors used an indirect immunophosphatase method to study 50 squamous cell carcinomas of the larynx and ten lymph-node metastases , corresponding to six primary tumors , for 4f2 expression . the tumors showed several patterns of 4f2 staining which were correlated with different behaviors and prognoses of the neoplasms . three different patterns ( no staining , peripheral staining , and diffuse 4f2 expression ) are described as are their relationships with metastatic behavior of the carcinomas . tumors with metastases were found only in the third group ( p = 0.0001 ) . these results led to the following conclusions : ( 1 ) the 4f2 antigen is present in squamous cell carcinomas ; ( 2 ) its distribution reflects the tumor-spreading pattern ; and ( 3 ) it correlates with differentiation and metastatic behavior . 
tumor-antigen 4 . its immunohistochemical distribution and tissue and serum concentrations in squamous cell carcinoma of the lung and esophagus . the immunohistochemical distribution and concentrations of tumor-antigen 4 ( ta-4 ) in tissues and serum were determined in patients with benign and malignant diseases , including 27 patients with squamous cell carcinoma ( scc ; 15 in the lung and 12 in the esophagus ) . tumor-antigen 4 immunoreactivity was present in the cytoplasm of many scc tissues , especially in the hyperparakeratotic region , and in the cytoplasm of differentiated squamous cells of the intermediate layer of normal epithelia of various organs , but not in those of other types of lung cancers or benign pulmonary diseases . consistent with the results of immunostaining , the ta-4 concentrations in scc tissues of the lung , esophagus , and normal squamous epithelia were much higher than in those of lung cancer other than scc , benign pulmonary diseases , normal lung , and submandibular gland tissues . the ta-4 concentration in scc tissue tended to increase with increasing grades of differentiation . serum ta-4 was elevated in 15 of 27 patients with scc but in no patients with other types of lung cancer or benign diseases . these results indicate that ta-4 is an antigen related to the differentiation of squamous cells and that tumor cells of scc can release a large amount of ta-4 into circulation whereas normal squamous epithelia can not . 
myocarditis or acute myocardial infarction associated with interleukin-2 therapy for cancer . the hearts of eight patients aged 22 to 67 years ( mean , 41 years ) who died during or within 4 days of interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) based immunotherapy for treatment of renal cell carcinoma or melanoma were studied at necropsy . death resulted from combined cardiorespiratory failure in two patients , sepsis in four patients , acute myocardial infarction in one patient , and myocarditis in one patient . transmural left ventricular necrosis was present in one of the two patients with significant atherosclerotic coronary artery narrowing . noninfectious myocarditis was present in five patients : the inflammatory infiltrate was lymphocytic in four and composed of a mixture of eosinophils and lymphocytes in one . although treatment-related deaths associated with high-dose il-2 therapy are uncommon ( 1.5 % in 652 consecutive patients ) , the potential for significant myocardial ischemia or myocarditis exists , and careful monitoring for arrhythmias or myocardial failure is warranted . 
postoperative active specific immunization in colorectal cancer patients with virus-modified autologous tumor-cell vaccine . first clinical results with tumor-cell vaccines modified with live but avirulent newcastle disease virus [ published erratum appears in cancer 1991 apr 15 ; 67 ( 8 ) :2124 ] sixteen patients with colorectal carcinoma dukes ' stage b2 , c , or d were treated with an autologous virus-modified tumor-cell vaccine after potential curative tumor resection ( r0-resection ) . an inoculum of 1 x 10 ( 7 ) cells incubated with 32 hemagglutination units of nonirradiated newcastle disease virus ( ndv ) was given intracutaneously up to four times at 10-day intervals . the delayed-type hypersensitivity ( dth ) skin reaction was measured . the vaccination was well tolerated . in 11 of 16 patients an increasing reactivity against the vaccine was observed during the vaccination procedure . a challenge test using autologous tumor cells without ndv after the vaccination cycle revealed a specific antitumor sensibilization in 12 patients . the dth response was not due to bacterial contamination or sensibility to the virus . histologic examination of the vaccination site showed a dense infiltration of predominantly helper t-lymphocytes . we conclude that in most of the patients treated active , specific immunization led to a specific antitumor sensitivity . 
acute t-cell leukemia/lymphoma mimicking hodgkin 's disease with secondary htlv i seroconversion . the authors observed a pleiomorphic lymphoma mimicking hodgkin 's lymphoma in a french guyana black woman lacking antibodies for human t-cell lymphoma/leukemia virus type i ( htlv i ) . after two courses of chemotherapy with either mechlorethamine , vincristine , procarbazine , and prednisone ( mopp ) or doxorubicin , bleomycin , vincaleukoblastine , and dacarbazine ( abvd ) , a typical acute t-cell leukemia/lymphoma developed with htlv i seroconversion . specific htlv i dna sequences were detected using the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) on a lymph node biopsy obtained before chemotherapy . the mechanisms of the seroconversion are discussed . 
immunohistochemical studies on the main entrance-route of ca19-9 into the peripheral venous blood of gastric cancer patients . correlation with ca19-9 levels in peripheral and portal blood . the correlation between ca19-9 levels of portal and peripheral venous blood , and immunohistochemical variables of cancer lesions was examined in 53 gastric cancer patients and eight patients with benign diseases . immunohistochemically , ca19-9 was found in 33 ( 62.5 % ) of 53 primary lesions . the antigen was found in the cancer cells of invasive lymphatics and node metastases of every ca19-9 localized cancer , although the cancer cells in veins showed little or no ca19-9 . there was little or no antigen in the cancer cells in veins , lymphatics , or metastases of 20 ca19-9 nonlocalized primary lesions . patients with ca19-9 nonlocalized cancer or with benign diseases showed no elevation of the antigen levels in peripheral or portal blood . ca19-9 levels of portal blood ( mean , 76.4 u/ml ; positive rate , 33.3 % ) were not different from those of peripheral blood ( mean , 91.5 u/ml ; positive rate , 33.3 % ) . additionally , the antigen levels of the blood in patients with lymphatic invasion or node metastases were significantly higher than those in patients without the invasion or the metastases , and every patient without the invasion showed no elevation of the antigen . these results suggest that production of the antigen in cancer cells may be a premise of ca19-9 elevation in peripheral blood and that ca19-9 may be drained by the thoracic duct of the lymphatic system via node metastases or invasive lymphatics , but not by the hematogenous portal system . 
colonic polyamine content and ornithine decarboxylase activity as markers for adenomas . polyamine content ( putrescine , spermidine , and spermine ) or ornithine decarboxylase ( odc ) activity was measured in normal-appearing colonic mucosa from patients undergoing colonoscopy . comparisons were made between those with and those without adenomatous polyps . colonic mucosal polyamine content was measured in 44 persons . mean putrescine content was 1.25 + / - 0.26 ( se ) nmol/mg protein in 22 patients with adenomatous polyps compared with 0.53 + / - 0.12 nmol/mg protein in patients without polyps ( p less than 0.02 ) . tissue content of spermidine and spermine did not differ between these two groups . ornithine decarboxylase activity was measured in tissue from 45 patients . mean odc activity was 2.84 + / - 0.73 pmol/hr/mg protein in 23 persons with adenomatous polyps compared with 1.15 + / - 0.18 pmol/hr/mg protein in persons without polyps ( p less than 0.05 ) . mucosal putrescine and odc activity are elevated in patients with adenomatous polyps compared with patients without polyps . these biochemical markers may prove helpful in improving surveillance methods for colorectal cancer and premalignant adenomatous polyps . 
establishment of an erythroid cell line ( jk-1 ) that spontaneously differentiates to red cells . the authors established a new hemopoietic cell line ( jk-1 ) from a patient with chronic myelogenous leukemia in erythroid crisis . this jk-1 line predominantly consists of immature cells , but a small number of mature erythroblasts and red cells can be consistently seen without any specific differentiation inducer . the jk-1 cells grow in suspension culture supplemented with human plasma and carry double philadelphia chromosomes . hemoglobin staining with benzidine was positive for about 20 % of cells and the type of the hemoglobin was for the most part hbf . surface-marker analysis revealed jk-1 cells positive for glycophorin a , ep-1 , and hae9 . the proportion of mature cells was elevated by the addition of delta-aminolevulinic acid . erythropoietin ( epo ) enhanced the growth of jk-1 cells either in the suspension or in methylcellulose semisolid culture . the total number of epo receptors was 940 per cell , of which 220 sites had an affinity higher than the other 720 sites . this is the first report of an established human erythroid cell line which spontaneously undergoes terminal differentiation . 
regional differences in the intranodal distribution of tumor cells . the intranodal distribution of tumor cells was examined in 103 mesenteric and 135 axillary nodes to determine the frequency of a circumferential type of distribution and its relationship , if any , to central necrosis . eighteen percent of the mesenteric nodes removed at surgery from patients with colon cancer contained a circumferential rim of viable tumor cells in an area corresponding wholly or in part to the normal location of the marginal sinus . in each case this rim of tumor cells surrounded a large central area of necrosis . in contrast , only one of the 135 axillary nodes removed from patients with breast cancer demonstrated this pattern . these findings suggest that by interrupting blood and lymph vessels , the circumferential spread of tumor cells underlies development of central necrosis . previously described structural dissimilarities between mesenteric and axillary nodes may explain the striking difference in incidence of this pattern in these nodes . 
flow cytometric dna analysis of parathyroid tumors . implication of aneuploidy for pathologic and biologic classification . the previous cytometric studies on parathyroid tumors have provided conflicting data regarding the relationship between dna content and histopathology , resulting from differences in technical methods and data analysis . this study measured nuclear dna of parathyroid tumors by flow cytometry in fresh material and determined whether dna aneuploidy really assists in making a pathologic diagnosis of carcinoma or not . from may 1987 through april 1989 , 65 consecutive patients operated on for primary hyperparathyroidism had dna analysis of the freshly excised parathyroid tumors . three of the patients had metastatic lesions of parathyroid carcinoma in the lung , cervical lymph nodes , and lung and mediastinal lymph nodes , respectively . pathologic classifications of the lesions from the other 62 patients were 54 adenomas , four carcinomas , and four hyperplasias . in all the latter patients , hyperplasia was associated with a multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome . unequivocal evidence of aneuploidy was found in all of the metastatic lesions and 60 % of the primary lesions of the carcinomas , in 9 % of the adenomas and in 50 % of the hyperplasias . therefore , parathyroid carcinomas were more apt to be aneuploid than were adenomas ( p = 0.0015 , both-sided testing ) . in each of the cases of aneuploid hyperplasia , a small aneuploid peak was found . the high incidence of aneuploidy in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 may indicate the presence of clonal heterogeneity of hyperplastic glands and the presence of an abnormal subset of cells that have malignant potential . cell distribution analysis did not provide any significant information beyond ploidy level . in conclusion , dna flow cytometric analysis of dna ploidy patterns is a valuable adjunct to the histopathologic diagnosis of parathyroid neoplasms . 
brush cytology in the diagnosis of colonic neoplasms . during a three-year period ( 1986-1988 ) , 234 colonic brush specimens were received in the authors ' laboratory . nine samples ( 4 % ) were deemed unsatisfactory for evaluation because of inadequate cellularity and/or poor fixation . in 11 cases concomitant or follow-up histologic specimens were not available . the remaining 214 specimens included 82 malignant neoplasms , 88 neoplastic polyps ( adenomas ) , and 44 nonneoplastic lesions . sixty-seven ( 82 % ) of malignant neoplasms were correctly diagnosed by brush cytology . three cases of adenoma with severe dysplasia or in situ carcinoma were diagnosed as adenocarcinoma by cytology . no false-positive diagnoses were made of nonneoplastic lesions . brush cytology was found to be a more sensitive technique in the diagnosis of colon cancer than endoscopic biopsy ( 82 % and 74 % sensitivity , respectively ) . the combination of the two techniques increased the sensitivity to 90 % and improved the overall accuracy of the test . seventy-one ( 82 % ) of the colonic adenomas were correctly diagnosed by cytology . brush cytology is a convenient , safe , and accurate technique which should be used concurrently with endoscopic biopsy or polypectomy . 
soft tissue sarcoma with additional anaplastic components . a clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of 27 cases . this clinicopathologic study concerns 27 cases of " dedifferentiated " soft tissue sarcoma ( dsts ) , including 14 liposarcomas , six leiomyosarcomas , five chondrosarcomas , and two rhabdomyosarcomas . in addition , the authors conducted an immunohistochemical survey of 23 cases and an electron microscopic examination of three . the findings were compared with observations of 32 cases of de novo malignant fibrous histiocytoma ( mfh ) . all tumors contained additional distinct anaplastic portions indistinguishable from mfh under conventional light microscopy , ultrastructurally , and in cases of immunoreactivity for alpha-1-antichymotrypsin and alpha-1-antitrypsin and on lectin histochemical findings for ricinus communis agglutinin and concanavalin agglutinin . the desmin reactivity present in anaplastic portions of 14 dsts and in eight de novo mfh is taken to mean that myofibroblasts are present in these tumors . the anaplastic components of dsts are presumed to represent the proliferation of another clone of undifferentiated mesenchymal cells that fail to differentiate along any specific lineage other than fibroblast-like cells , histiocyte-like cells , and myofibroblasts . nineteen patients died of tumor and four are alive and well 1.6 , 1.7 , 2.1 , and 5.2 years after the initial treatment , respectively . 
continuing care for cancer pain relief with oral morphine solution . one-year experience in a regional cancer center . this report is a prospective study of 223 patients with intractable cancer pain who were offered continuing care during the year 1988 at the pain relief unit , kidwai memorial institute of oncology , bangalore , india , with a minimum follow-up of 4 months and a maximum follow-up of 16 months . a high percentage of pain relief was attained within a mean duration of 4 days , which on follow-up was maintained at a steady level in most patients ( 91.1 % ) . oral morphine could not be continued in three patients because of vomiting . the main side effects noticed were nausea and vomiting , itching , and constipation . at any time during the first 140 days , only 30 % of patients had side effects and appropriate medication successfully managed these side effects . during the rest of the study period , the side effects were minimal . oral morphine used with proper adjuncts offers the best pain palliation in most patients , with minimal side effects . 
clinical prognostic factors in patients with posterior uveal malignant melanoma . the authors evaluated the prognostic value of clinically assessed variables for predicting length of survival until death from metastatic disease in 237 patient with a primary choroidal or ciliary body melanoma . using multivariate cox proportional hazards modeling , the authors identified the largest linear basal tumor diameter ( mm ) , estimated by indirect ophthalmoscopy and fundus drawing , the location of the anterior margin of the tumor relative to the ocular equator and ora serrata , and the age of the patient at the time of treatment as the best combination of the clinically assessed variables for predicting survival . for each patient in this group , the authors computed a prognostic index based on the best multivariate cox model . they showed that patients with low , intermediate , and high values of prognostic index had low , intermediate , and high melanoma-related mortality rates , respectively , during the first 5 to 8 posttreatment years . these results suggest that : ( 1 ) clinically assessed variables evaluated according to a standardized protocol are useful for predicting the survival of treated patients with posterior uveal melanoma and ( 2 ) ophthalmologists who assess potential clinical prognostic variables consistently may identify subgroups of patients with comparable mortality risk on the basis of noninvasive testing . 
mammographic screening of women with increased risk of breast cancer . five hundred one women from dallas county , texas who participated in the american cancer society 1987 texas breast screening project were selected because of a self-reported family history of breast cancer ( cases ) . they were matched with 501 randomly selected women from the same county with no family history ( controls ) . although there was a statistically significant trend with age for an increasing proportion of women to report having undergone mammography , there was no significant difference when comparing mammographic histories of cases with controls after controlling for age ( 31.5 % versus 35.1 % , p = 0.33 ) . significantly more cases ( 79 % ) perceived their risk for breast cancer to be moderate or greater compared with controls ( 54 % , p less than 0.0001 ) , but mammographic histories were not different when controlling for perceived risk . both cases and controls cited lack of physician referral and cost as their reasons for not having undergone mammography . women at increased risk for breast cancer ( because of their family history ) are not undergoing regular mammographic screening despite their self-awareness of the increase in their risk . 
murine monoclonal anti-idiotype antibody as a potential network antigen for human carcinoembryonic antigen . carcinomas of the gastrointestinal tract are not curable by standard therapies . thus , new therapeutic approaches for this disease are needed . this study proposes the use of anti-id mab as ag substitutes to induce anti-tumor immunity in gastrointestinal cancer patients . recently , we have generated and characterized one monoclonal anti-id antibody , designated 3h1 ( ab2 ) , which mimics biologically and antigenically a distinct and specific epitope of the 180,000 m.w. carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) primarily expressed in high density by human pancreatic and colonic tumor cells . this epitope is unique to cea and not present on other cea-related lower m.w. members of the ag family also found on normal tissues . the antigenic determinant as defined by the mab 8019 ( ab1 ) against which the ab2 , 3h1 was raised , is absent on normal adult tissues by immunoperoxidase staining and haematopoietic cells including granulocytes by flow cytometry analysis . anti-id ( ab2 ) 3h1 induced cea-specific antibodies in mice and rabbits . the immune sera from both mice and rabbits competed with ab1 for binding to the colon carcinoma cell line ls174t and inhibited the binding of radioiodinated ab1 to ab2 . this indicates that anti-anti-id ( ab3 ) in mice and rabbits share idiotopes with ab1 ( 8019 ) . furthermore , monoclonal ab3 that bind to cea have been generated from mice immunized with 3h1 . the ab3 ( both polyclonal as well as monoclonal ) immunoprecipitated the same 180,000 m.w. cea as ab1 ( 8019 ) by western blotting analysis and showed almost identical immuno-staining patterns as ab1 on colonic adenocarcinoma tissue sections from several patients . collectively these data suggest that ab2 3h1 could potentially be used clinically as a network ag for immunotherapy of patients with cea positive tumors . 
il-2-pe40 prevents the development of tumors in mice injected with il-2 receptor expressing el4 transfectant tumor cells . a number of different immunotherapeutic reagents are currently being developed to target il-2r for the treatment of leukemia , graft rejection , and certain autoimmune diseases . previously , we have shown that il-2-pe40 , a chimeric protein composed of human il-2 linked to the n-terminus of a truncated form of pseudomonas exotoxin ( pe ) , could effectively kill a variety of cell lines in vitro expressing either low , intermediate , or high affinity il-2r . here , we demonstrate that il-2-pe40 can successfully retard or prevent the growth of a lethal ascites tumor or a solid tumor composed of el4j murine thymoma cells transfected with the p55 murine il-2r . the transfected line , el4j-3 .4 , expresses 1,000 to 3,000 high affinity il-2r . survival extension in the ascites model was achieved by initiating treatment either after 4 to 6 h or within 5 days post-tumor injection in both athymic nude and c57bl/6 mice . similarly , the growth of an aggressive s.c. solid tumor could also be inhibited . extension of survival was not achieved either by using the truncated toxin alone not attached to il-2 or by using an il-2-pe40asp553 mutant lacking a functional toxin . survival extension was not caused by il-2 activated nk or other host effector mechanisms as il-2-pe40 was unable to prevent the receptor-negative el4j parental line from forming a lethal ascites or a solid tumor . thus , il-2-pe40 is a potent , specific cytolytic reagent that may prove useful in the arsenal of anti-il-2r immunotherapeutics . 
regulation of hla class ii molecule expressions by ifn-gamma . the signal transduction mechanism in glioblastoma cell lines . we examined the signal transduction mechanism responsible for the ifn-gamma-induced hla class ii molecule expressions on glioblastoma cell lines , t98g and a172 . a series of experiments demonstrated that the activation of protein kinase c ( pkc ) is involved in the dr and dp molecule expressions on t98g cells . in addition to the activation of pkc , calcium influx appeared to be involved in the dr and dp molecule expressions on t98g . northern blot analyses with actinomycin d or cycloheximide revealed that these second messengers induce the transcription of dra and b and dpa and b genes without de novo protein synthesis . furthermore , we examined the region of the dpb gene that is responsible for ifn-gamma-induced gene transcription by gene transfer of a series of 5 ' and 3 ' deletion mutants in which the upstream region of the dpb was linked to a reporter gene , chloramphenicol acetyltransferase . by using these deletion mutants , it appeared that the region between -152 and -126 bp contains a critical ifn-gamma-responsive element . taken together , these results suggest that ifn-gamma activates pkc and stimulates calcium influx , resulting in the induction of transcription of dra and b and dpa and b genes without de novo protein synthesis . in dpb gene , we speculate that preexiting protein ( s ) phosphorylated by pkc in the presence of ca2 + might directly bind or indirectly interact with the region between -152 and -126 bp of the upstream sequence , leading to the induction of the transcription ( possibly in concert with other nuclear protein ( s ) bound to the promoter sequences ) . 
low doses of il-4 injected perilymphatically in tumor-bearing mice inhibit the growth of poorly and apparently nonimmunogenic tumors and induce a tumor-specific immune memory . the ability of ril-4 to trigger host reactivity against both a chemically induced fibrosarcoma ( ce-2 ) and a spontaneous adenocarcinoma ( ts/a ) of balb/c mice was studied . daily local s.c. administration around tumor draining lymph nodes of 10 injections of progressive amounts ( 0.00001 to 1000 pg/day ) of ril-4 induced appreciable inhibition of the growth of both tumors after a dose-response survival curve peaking at 0.1 pg/day . inasmuch as ril-4 has no direct antitumor activity , as shown by in vitro tests , host immune reactivity plays a fundamental role in this lymphokine activated tumor inhibition ( lati ) . lati , in fact , is abolished when recipient mice are sublethally irradiated or treated with cyclosporin a , or when the reactivity of cd4 + lymphocytes is suppressed , whereas it is not affected by anti-asialo gm1 antibody . the morphologic data show that ril-4 lati rests on the recruitment of several cell reaction mechanisms , among which those that are nonspecific seem to predominate . ril-4 lati also leads to a state of long lasting and specific immune memory : the growth of a second contralateral tumor challenge is significantly impaired after lati . this immune memory takes place after lati of both the poorly immunogenic ce-2 fibrosarcoma and the ts/a adenocarcinoma , previously classed as nonimmunogenic on the basis of immunization-protection tests . in the latter case , adoptive transfer experiments show that thy-1 + lymphocytes and , in particular , the cd4 cell-depleted t lymphocyte subpopulation , are responsible for the immune memory . finally , the ability of ril-4 to trigger lati is greater than that of the most effective doses of ril-2 , ril-1 beta , and ifn-gamma , whereas its association with ril-1 beta induces a more effective immune memory . 
endemic kaposi 's sarcoma in human immunodeficiency virus type 1-seronegative persons : demonstration of retrovirus-like particles in cutaneous lesions . in 1984 , greek physicians reported on the clustering of cases of kaposi 's sarcoma ( ks ) on the peloponnesus peninsula . to gain more insight into its pathogenesis , we studied the seroepidemiologic and clinicopathologic characteristics of 12 greek ks patients ( eight male/four female ) five of whom were residents of an endemic area on the peloponnesus . these patients were in good general health with ages ranging from 48 to 80 years , had no clinical signs of immunodeficiency , and combined the features of both classic and epidemic ks in that they displayed not only involvement of acral areas but also widespread mucocutaneous lesions . routine laboratory data were within normal limits ; no patient had htlv-1 and hiv-1 / 2 antibodies , but all patients had antibodies to several herpesviruses . the histopathology was characteristic of ks with the peculiar feature of a dense infiltrate composed predominantly of cd4 + t lymphocytes . immunoenzymatic/morphologic studies of the ks cells were consistent with their origin from lymphatic endothelium . outstanding ultrastructural findings were tubuloreticular structures and cylindrical confronting cisternae , structures that are indicative of an ongoing viral infection . indeed , extensive electronmicroscopic studies resulted in the detection of retrovirus-like particles in close association to ks cells in five of 12 patients . this in situ observation opens the possibility that this retro-virus contributes to ks development . 
elevated serum levels of soluble interleukin-2 receptors in small cell lung carcinoma . the presence of the soluble form of the interleukin-2 receptors ( sil-2r ) was evaluated in the serum of 21 patients with small cell lung carcinoma ( sclc ) and 37 patients with non-small cell lung carcinoma ( non-sclc ) by means of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay . the sil-2r level was measured serially in patients with sclc both during and after therapy . the mean serum level of sil-2r in patients with sclc was 3.8 times higher than that of 47 healthy controls and was 1.9 times higher than in 37 patients with non-sclc . six patients with sclc had very high levels of sil-2r , ranging from five to 52 times the mean level observed in normal controls . tumor cells in the pleural fluid of the patient with highest levels were positive with monoclonal antibodies to il-2r ( cd25 ) , nkh-1 , okdr , and okt9 . a longitudinal study in this patient showed a good correlation between tumor activity and sil-2r levels . also , the sil-2r levels decreased in patients responding to therapy . these results suggest that some sclcs secrete sil-2r and that the serial measurements of the serum sil-2r levels can be used as a noninvasive tumor marker in this disease . 
abnormal processing of pro-igf-ii in patients with hepatoma and in some hepatitis b virus antibody-positive asymptomatic individuals . hepatomas are a common malignancy in countries with a high prevalence of hepatitis b virus infections . these tumors may present with severe persistent hypoglycemia . we have studied the possible relationship of production of insulin-like growth factor ii ( igf-ii ) by these tumors and the development of hypoglycemia . mean igf-ii concentration was not significantly higher in 23 patients with hypoglycemia than in nine patients with euglycemia ( 542 + / - 61 [ se ] micrograms/l vs 382 + / - 52 micrograms/l ) . serum igf-i was more suppressed in patients with hypoglycemia ( 16 + / - 3 micrograms/l ) than in patients with euglycemia ( 57 + / - 18 micrograms/l ) . because an increased percentage of igf-ii in serum of patients with hypoglycemia who have other tumors is present as partially processed pro-igf-ii ( " big " igf-ii ) , we passed sera of patients with hypoglycemia and patients with euglycemia with hepatomas through acidic bio-gel p-60 columns . we found that 57 % + / - 4.6 % of the igf-ii in sera from patients with hypoglycemia was present as big igf-ii compared with 22 % + / - 3 % in patients with euglycemia with hepatomas ( not significantly different from that in normal controls ) . four of 11 apparently healthy control subjects who were hepatitis b virus positive also had increased percentages of big igf-ii , suggesting that abnormal processing of pro-igf-ii may result from subtle changes in liver function with this infection . it remains to be determined whether these subjects with increased big igf-ii are at increased risk for the development of hepatomas . in conclusion , we have confirmed marked suppression of igf-i in the sera of patients with hepatoma and hypoglycemia . 
central nervous system haemangioblastoma : a clinical and genetic study of 52 cases . fifty two cases of haemangioblastoma were reviewed for their clinical , genetic and prognostic features . of 34 patients with apparently isolated cerebellar lesions , postoperative outcome was good in 79 % . six isolated spinal lesions presented more insidiously and morbidity was related to incomplete resection . twelve ( 23 % ) of the patients definitely had von hippel-lindau disease ( vhld ) . the true proportion may be higher as this diagnosis was not definitely excluded in many of the remainder ; only ten patients with seemingly isolated cerebellar tumours were appropriately investigated and two had evidence of vhld . four out of 26 cases ( 15 % ) with apparently completely resected , isolated , cerebellar lesions later developed recurrent tumours . brainstem and supratentorial haemangioblastomas were rare and were always associated with vhld . the cerebellar or spinal haemangioblastomas due to vhld had no distinctive clinical features compared with isolated tumours and there was considerable overlap in age of onset between the two groups of cases . all patients with an apparently isolated cns haemangioblastoma should be investigated for evidence of von hippel-lindau disease . 
extradural implantation of sacral anterior root stimulators . a technique for extradural deafferentation of the s2 to s5 segments and extradural implantation of stimulating electrodes is described , and its application to twelve patients with spinal cord lesions is reported . nine patients use their implants for micturition , and seven are fully continent . the advantages and disadvantages of this technique compared with the more usual intrathecal procedure are discussed . 
stiffman syndrome : a rare paraneoplastic disorder ? an unusual case of the stiffman syndrome , associated with an oat cell carcinoma of the bronchus , is reported . pathological examination showed that it was due to an encephalomyelitis similar to that seen in paraneoplastic disorders . this suggests that atypical cases of the stiffman syndrome may occasionally be paraneoplastic . 
ldh isoenzymes in cerebrospinal fluid in various brain tumours . this study examined the isoenzymatic pattern of ldh in the cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) as well as the ratio between the five fractions of ldh among patients with various brain tumours , carcinomatous meningitis and control groups . ldh 1/ldh 2 less than 1 was found significant for carcinomatous meningitis ( p less than 0.001 ) and brain metastases ( p less than 0.001 ) . ldh 1/ldh 2 ratio was found to be significantly lower in carcinomatous meningitis than in brain metastases ( p less than 0.05 ) . no ldh 1/ldh 2 ratios smaller than 1 were found in the other groups . the ldh 1/ldh 2 ratio smaller than 1 was found in the early stage of carcinomatous meningitis without other evidences of the involvement of the leptomeninges . examination of ldh 1/ldh 2 can be found as an adjunctive method to identify brain metastases and carcinomatous meningitis at the initial stage . 
changes in surgical treatments : the example of hysterectomy versus conization for cervical carcinoma in situ . from 1969 through 1985 , 4584 women in the state of new mexico were diagnosed with carcinoma in situ of the cervix . of these women , 65.5 % underwent hysterectomy while 31.1 % had a conservative therapy ( primarily conization ) . over the 17-year period , there was a steady increase in the percentage of women receiving conservative therapies , from 11.8 % in 1969 to 50.3 % in 1985 . younger women , unmarried women and american indian women were more likely to receive conservative therapy . this marked shift in therapeutic approach occurred during a time of apparent controversy as to the optimal treatment for cervical carcinoma in situ , and illustrates a rapid change in surgical practice in the absence of any controlled trials comparing the two major treatment modalities . 
prolonged administration of oral etoposide in patients with relapsed or refractory small-cell lung cancer : a phase ii trial . twenty-two patients with recurrent small-cell lung cancer ( sclc ) were treated with single-agent etoposide 50 mg/m2/d by mouth for 21 consecutive days . eleven patients had received previous chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide , doxorubicin , and vincristine ( cav ) or etoposide ( cae ) or both ( cave ) . four of the latter patients also received salvage treatment with cisplatin and etoposide ( ep ) . nine patients had been treated with ep as induction therapy , while two patients had received high-dose cyclophosphamide , etoposide and cisplatin ( hdcep ) . altogether , 18 patients had received previous intravenous etoposide . the median time off chemotherapy was 4.5 months ( range , 1 to 28.9 months ) . ten patients ( 45.5 % ; 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 27 % to 65 % ) achieved a complete or partial response . responses were most common in patients who had responded to previous chemotherapy and who had not received any treatment in the 90 days before initiation of oral etoposide . median response duration was 4 months ( range , 1.5 to 9.5 months ) and median survival was 3.5 + months ( range , 1.0 to 15 + months ) . leukocyte and platelet nadirs were 1,800 / microl and 160,000 / microl , respectively , during cycle 1 of treatment and occurred between days 21 and 28 . overall , total leukocyte count decreased to less than 1,000 / microl during 10 of 56 cycles ( 18 % ) . five patients required six hospitalizations for neutropenia and fever . there were two toxic deaths due to sepsis . platelet counts less than 50,000 / microl occurred in 14 cycles ( 25 % ) . alopecia developed in all patients ; gastrointestinal toxicity was uncommon . this schedule of etoposide administration warrants further study in combination with other active agents in previously untreated patients with sclc . 
intraperitoneal lymphokine-activated killer-cell and interleukin-2 therapy for malignancies limited to the peritoneal cavity . autologous lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cells and recombinant human interleukin-2 ( ril-2 ) were administered intraperitoneally ( ip ) to 24 patients with malignancies limited to the peritoneal space . ten patients had ovarian cancer , 12 had colorectal cancer , and one patient each had endometrial carcinoma and primary small-bowel adenocarcinoma . all ovarian cancer patients , three of twelve colorectal cancer patients , and one patient with endometrial carcinoma had received prior therapy . patients received il-2 100,000 u/kg every 8 hours intravenously ( iv ) for 3 days , and 2 days later underwent daily leukapheresis for 5 days . lak cells were generated in vitro by incubating the peripheral blood mononuclear cells in il-2 for 7 days and were then administered ip daily for 5 days through a tenckhoff catheter ( davol , inc , cranston , ri ) together with il-2 25,000 u/kg ip every 8 hours . all but one patient completed at least one cycle of therapy . toxic side effects included minor to moderate hypotension , fever , chills , rash , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain and distension , diarrhea , oliguria , fluid retention , thrombocytopenia , and minor elevations of liver function tests ; all of these rapidly improved after discontinuation of il-2 . one patient had a grand mal seizure , and one suffered a colonic perforation ; these were felt to be treatment-related . ip fibrosis developed in 14 patients and limited repeated cyclic administration of this therapy in five patients . two of 10 ( 20 % ) ovarian cancer patients and five of 12 ( 42 % ) colorectal cancer patients had laparoscopy - or laparotomy-documented partial responses . we conclude that lak cells and ril-2 can be administered ip to cancer patients , resulting in moderate to severe short-term toxicity and modest therapeutic efficacy . further investigation of this form of adoptive immunotherapy modified to address the problem of ip fibrosis and with lower ip il-2 doses is justified by these initial results . 
therapy of renal cell carcinoma with interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cells : phase ii experience with a hybrid bolus and continuous infusion interleukin-2 regimen . forty-seven patients with metastatic or unresectable renal cell carcinoma were treated with interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) and lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) - cell therapy , using a hybrid il-2 regimen . il-2 was administered initially by intravenous bolus ( 10 ( 5 ) u/kg [ cetus corp , emeryville , ca ] every 8 hours for 3 days ) during the priming phase , and subsequently by continuous infusion ( 3 x 10 ( 6 ) u/m2 for 6 days ) ; during this second treatment period , in vitro-generated lak cells were administered . despite selection of patients for good performance status ( ps ) ( 29 , ps 0 ; 18 , ps 1 ) prior nephrectomy ( 43 of the 47 patients ) , and low tumor burden , the response rate was low ( two complete [ crs ] and two partial responses [ prs ] , for an overall objective response rate of 9 % ) . toxicity was comparable to that experienced with the high-dose bolus regimen . these results suggest that the dose and schedule of il-2 administration may influence the likelihood of response to il-2 in renal cell carcinoma . 
interleukin-2 therapy in patients with metastatic malignant melanoma : a phase ii study . forty-seven patients with metastatic malignant melanoma were treated with two 5-day cycles of 100,000 u/kg recombinant interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) intravenously ( iv ) every 4 hours separated by 1 week . this dose and schedule of il-2 were identical to those used in a previous combined il-2 and lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cell phase ii clinical trial of the il-2 / lak working group . patient eligibility criteria , and clinical management guidelines were similar to those used in the previous trial . forty-six patients were assessable for response . objective responses were observed in 10 of 46 patients ( two complete responses [ crs ] , eight partial responses [ prs ] ) or 22 % with responses occurring in lung and liver as well as lymph nodes and subcutaneous sites . the median response duration was 8 months . toxicity was significant ; three patients developed myocardial infarction , and one patient died during therapy . overall the toxicity and response rate for single-agent il-2 are similar to that observed with il-2 administered in combination with lak cells in the previous trial . these results suggest that single-agent therapy with il-2 when administered in this schedule has significant antimelanoma activity in humans , and that lak cells generated from peripheral blood add little to the antimelanoma activity of this dose and schedule of il-2 . 
phase i study of interleukin-2 and interferon alfa-2a as outpatient therapy for patients with advanced malignancy . twenty-six patients were treated in this phase i study with the combination of interleukin-2 ( il2 ) administered as a continuous infusion and interferon alfa-2a ( ifn alpha-2a ) administered intramuscularly to patients in an outpatient setting . the maximum-tolerated dose of both agents given as outpatient therapy was 2 x 10 ( 6 ) u/m2 days 1 to 5 of il2 and 9 x 10 ( 6 ) u/m2 days 1 , 3 , and 5 of ifn alpha-2a for 4 consecutive weeks . a 2 - to 4-week rest period was permitted after each 4 weeks of treatment . fatigue was the treatment-limiting toxicity , and serious clinical or laboratory abnormalities occurred infrequently during this study . patients with colon cancer metastatic to the liver tolerated treatment worse than patients with other tumors . twelve of the 15 patients with renal cell cancer were assessable for response determinations . of these 12 patients , three exhibited complete tumor regression , three have had partial objective regression , and three patients experienced stabilization of rapidly progressive disease . this therapy appears to be well tolerated in an outpatient treatment setting and shows significant activity against advanced renal cell cancer . 
multimodal therapy for the management of primary , nonmetastatic ewing 's sarcoma of bone : a long-term follow-up of the first intergroup study . a total of 342 previously untreated eligible children were entered into the first intergroup ewing 's sarcoma study ( iess ) between may 1973 and november 1978 . in group i institutions , patients were randomized between treatment 1 ( radiotherapy to primary lesion plus cyclophosphamide , vincristine , dactinomycin , and adriamycin [ doxorubicin ; adria laboratories , columbus , oh ] [ vac plus adr ] ) or treatment 2 ( same as treatment 1 without adr ) , and group ii institutions randomized patients between treatment 2 or treatment 3 ( same as treatment 2 plus bilateral pulmonary radiotherapy [ vac plus bpr ] ) . the percentages of patients relapse-free and surviving ( rfs ) at 5 years for treatments 1 , 2 , and 3 were 60 % , 24 % , and 44 % , respectively . there was strong statistical evidence of a significant advantage in rfs for treatment 1 ( vac plus adr ) versus 2 ( vac alone ) ( p less than .001 ) and 3 ( p less than .05 ) and also of treatment 3 versus 2 ( p less than .001 ) . similar significant results were observed with respect to overall survival . patients with disease at pelvic sites have significantly poorer survival at 5 years than those with disease at nonpelvic sites ( 34 % v 57 % ; p less than .001 ) . among pelvic cases , there was no evidence of differing survival by treatment ( p = .81 ) , but among nonpelvic cases , there was strong evidence of differing survival by treatment ( p less than .001 ) . the overall percentage of patients developing metastatic disease was 44 % ; the percentages by treatments 1 , 2 , and 3 were 30 % , 72 % , and 42 % , respectively . the overall incidence of local recurrence was 15 % , and there was no evidence that local recurrence rate differed by treatment . patient characteristics related to prognosis , both with respect to rfs and overall survival experience , were primary site ( nonpelvic patients were most favorable ) and patient age ( younger patients were more favorable ) . 
adjunctive surgery after chemotherapy for nonseminomatous germ cell tumors : recommendations for patient selection . one hundred eighty-five patients who underwent surgery within 6 months of completing chemotherapy were identified from 360 patients with nonseminomatous germ cell tumors ( nsgct ) treated with memorial hospital front-line cisplatin - or carboplatin-based combination chemotherapy protocols between 1979 and 1988 . clinical , pathologic , and radiologic features were correlated with the pathologic findings at surgery . the size of a residual retroperitoneal mass , the degree of shrinkage that occurred with chemotherapy , and the presence of teratomatous elements in pretreatment pathology specimens were each correlated with the pathologic findings of retroperitoneal resections after chemotherapy . multivariable logistic regression analysis of those undergoing retroperitoneal resections identified the size and shrinkage of the residual mass and the prechemotherapy lactate dehydrogenase ( ldh ) and alphafetoprotein ( afp ) levels as the best predictors of finding only necrotic debris . no factors could be found , however , that could selectively exclude patients who had residual viable malignancy or teratoma in the retroperitoneum . of 39 patients with residual retroperitoneal masses measuring less than or equal to 1.5 cm in maximal diameter , three had residual malignancy and five had teratoma resected . no factors were identified for residual lung or mediastinal masses that could be used to select a group of patients who could safely avoid surgery . if serum markers have normalized after chemotherapy for nsgct , resection of all residual abnormalities on imaging studies of the retroperitoneum , lungs , and mediastinum is recommended . in addition , retroperitoneal lymph node dissection ( rplnd ) is recommended for all patients with initial bulky metastases ( greater than or equal to 3 cm in diameter ) in the retroperitoneum , irrespective of the findings of postchemotherapy computed tomography ( ct ) . 
hepatic venoocclusive disease in autologous bone marrow transplantation of solid tumors and lymphomas . retrospective review of 291 solid tumor and lymphoma patients undergoing autologous bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) was performed to determine the influence of pretransplant characteristics and preparative regimen to the development of hepatic venoocclusive disease ( vod ) . twelve patients ( 4.1 % ) developed a clinical syndrome of right upper quadrant ( ruq ) tenderness or hepatomegaly , jaundice , and ascites , with or without encephalopathy , within 40 days of marrow reinfusion . evidence of metastatic liver disease was the only pretransplant characteristic predictive for vod ( p = .0002 ) . sex , age , histology , hepatitis b serology , and elevated liver function tests were not predictive . no individual preparative agent had a significant effect on the development of vod . however , a single 2-hour infusion of carmustine ( bcnu ) ( greater than or equal to 450 mg/m2 ) led to an increased incidence of vod when compared with the same dose administered in a fractionated schedule ( p = .0258 ) when given with two other chemotherapeutic agents . seven of eight autopsy specimens confirmed the clinical diagnosis of vod . the four patients in whom clinical vod resolved had lower median peak bilirubins ( 7.3 v 15.9 mg/dl ) , lower median peak creatinines ( 2.1 v 4.1 mg/dl ) , and relatively quick engraftment of neutrophils ( mean , 18.7 days ) . one of the four patients in whom vod resolved had other grade 4 ( life-threatening ) toxicities in contrast to eight of eight who succumbed . in summary , vod is an uncommon complication in autotransplantation of solid tumors and lymphomas . our data suggest caution in selecting patients with known metastatic liver disease and consideration of a fractionated bcnu schedule especially in combination with other alkylating agents . 
bone marrow transplantation for myelodysplasia and secondary acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia . twenty-three patients with primary myelodysplasia ( mds ) or secondary myelodysplasia/acute nonlymphocytic leukemia ( mds/anll ) were treated with allogeneic or syngeneic bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) . only one patient was in a chemotherapy-induced hematologic remission . graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis included methotrexate , methotrexate plus cyclosporine , cyclosporine , or t-cell depletion using one of two anti-cd5 monoclonal antibodies . for patients with primary mds , the median age was 19 years ( range , 11 to 41 years ) and the actuarial disease-free survival was 56 % + / - 21 % ( median follow-up , 2 years ; range , 0.8 to 5 years ) . there were three graft failures ( two with autologous recovery ) and two early deaths . outcome appeared to be related to french-american-british ( fab ) classification . for patients with secondary mds/anll , the median age was 28 years ( range , 3 to 16 years ) and the actuarial disease-free survival was 27 % + / - 13 % ( median follow-up , 5 years ; range , 2.5 to 8.5 years ) . there were no graft failures , two relapses , and four early deaths . the presence of marrow fibrosis per se did not predict for graft failure ( p = .21 ) ; however , the use of t-cell depleted marrow in patients with marrow fibrosis resulted in graft failure in three of five individuals . our results suggest that in patients with primary mds or secondary mds/anll , bmt should be considered early in the course of the disease , and that attempts at inducing a remission prior to bmt appeared to be unnecessary . in mds patients with marrow fibrosis , t-cell depletion should be avoided . 
response of oral leukoplakia to beta-carotene . leukoplakia is associated with increased risk of oral cancer and is considered a premalignant lesion . retinoids , particularly 13-cis retinoic acid , can frequently reverse leukoplakia . however , these drugs have considerable toxicity and are not suitable for large-scale use in the prevention of oral cancer . beta-carotene is a naturally occurring , nontoxic carotenoid with biologic properties that suggest that it might be efficacious against oral leukoplakia . in 1986 , we began a randomized study of 13-cis retinoic acid ( 1 mg/kg/d ) versus beta-carotene ( 30 mg/d ) in leukoplakia . however , owing to the marked differences in toxicity between the two compounds outlined in the consent form , 11 of the initial 16 eligible patients refused to participate unless they were " guaranteed " beta-carotene . therefore , the study design was changed to a phase ii trial of beta-carotene in which the compound was given daily for 3 months . responding patients were continued for another 3 months of treatment . all lesions were examined histologically at entry . responses were monitored by bidimensional measurements and photography done at entry , then monthly while on treatment and at study completion . twenty-four evaluable patients were treated , and 17 had major responses ( two complete , 15 partial ) , a response rate of 71 % ( 95 % confidence limits , 53 % to 89 % ) . there was no significant toxicity requiring drug discontinuation or dose reduction . these results indicate that beta-carotene has substantial activity in oral premalignancy . because of its lack of toxicity , it is an excellent candidate for a preventive agent for oral cancer . 
antagonism of serotonin s3 receptors with ondansetron prevents nausea and emesis induced by cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapy regimens the control of nausea and emesis in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy poses a significant management problem . in this randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled study , we evaluated the effect of serotonin s3 receptor blockade with ondansetron ( gr 38032f ) on the prevention of nausea and vomiting induced by cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapy . cyclophosphamide was given in doses of 500 to 600 mg/m2 and ondansetron as three intravenous ( iv ) doses of 0.15 mg/kg . most patients had breast cancer . cyclophosphamide was given in combination with doxorubicin ( 65 % of patients ) or with fluorouracil ( 85 % of patients : 50 % with adriamycin [ doxorubicin ; adria laboratories , columbus , oh ] and 35 % with methotrexate ) . all placebo-treated patients experienced vomiting , whereas 70 % of patients treated with ondansetron did not vomit ( p = .008 ) . median nausea scores were 8 mm on ondansetron and 65 mm on placebo ( p less than .001 ) . seventy percent of patients treated with ondansetron retained their normal appetite , compared with 10 % of placebo patients . adverse events occurred in six placebo patients and one ondansetron patient . diarrhea and headache were the most common events , both occurring more frequently in the placebo group . there were no extrapyramidal reactions , and the only significant biochemical change occurred in a placebo-treated patient . these results suggest that serotonin s3 receptor antagonists represent a novel , effective , and safe mode of therapy for nausea and emesis induced by cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapies . in addition , our observations are compatible with the view that serotonin , acting on s3 receptors , mediates the nausea and emesis occurring after cyclophosphamide chemotherapy . 
phase i study of repeated cycles of high-dose cyclophosphamide , etoposide , and cisplatin administered without bone marrow transplantation forty-two patients with advanced malignancy judged unlikely to respond to standard treatment received high-dose combination chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide , etoposide , and cisplatin in a phase i trial . twenty-two of these patients who had at least a partial response ( pr ) to the first cycle of therapy received a second cycle , and eight patients received three or more cycles of therapy . bone marrow replacement was not used . the maximum-tolerated doses ( mtds ) were cyclophosphamide 2.5 g/m2 on days 1 and 2 ; etoposide 500 mg/m2 on days 1 , 2 , and 3 ; and cisplatin 50 mg/m2 on days 1 , 2 , and 3 . hematologic toxicity was not dose-limiting by study design . recovery to an absolute granulocyte count above 100/microl occurred at a median of 9 days from onset ( range , 3 to 23 days ) at the mtd . recovery was delayed after the third cycle . only one patient on his third cycle failed to recover peripheral blood counts and died of sepsis an day 43 . hematologic toxicity was not dose-dependent . nonhematologic toxicities included emesis , fatigue , alopecia , diarrhea , and anorexia and were generally well tolerated . the dose-limiting toxicities were fatal pulmonary or cardiac toxicities in five of nine patients treated at the highest dose level . patients likely to do well can be selected by tumor type , response to prior therapy , and performance status . nine of 36 assessable patients had a complete response ( cr ) and 13 a pr for a response rate of 61 % . five patients ( 12 % ) remain alive and free of disease at 15 to 32 months . repeated cycles of dose-intensive combination therapy can produce long-term disease-free remissions in patients with refractory tumor types . the toxicity of the regimen is acceptable if patients are carefully selected . 
pharmacodynamics in cancer therapy . our understanding of anticancer pharmacodynamics , and the relationships between pharmacologic measurements and clinical effects , has grown markedly in recent years due to advances in analytical and computational technology . although methotrexate plasma levels have been empirically used to guide leucovorin dosing during high-dose methotrexate therapy , there has been no other standard use of therapeutic drug monitoring in oncology . more recently , investigators have attempted to titrate precisely the dose of antineoplastic agents based on previously derived models and real-time analysis of plasma drug or tissue concentrations . studies have been completed or are in progress using hexamethylene bisacetamide , etoposide , teniposide , fluorouracil ( fura ) , and cytarabine ( ara-c ) . future studies will focus on optimal sampling strategies , analysis of intermediate biochemical end points , combination chemotherapy , modulation by colony-stimulating factors , and more sophisticated pharmacodynamic models . 
surgical treatment of thyrotropin-secreting pituitary adenomas . thyrotropin-secreting pituitary adenomas have been diagnosed more frequently as radiographic techniques and biochemical assays have improved ; however , they remain uncommon and are unfamiliar to most neurosurgeons . this report concerns eight patients with hyperthyroidism , inappropriately elevated levels of serum thyrotropin and alpha-subunit , and radiographic evidence of pituitary tumor . all underwent surgery and had pathological confirmation of a thyrotropin-secreting adenoma , and most had been subjected to prior ablation of the thyroid gland . only one tumor was a microadenoma ; the others ranged in size from 1.4 to 12 cm , and invasion of parasellar structures was common . thyrotropin , triiodothyronine , thyroxine , and alpha-subunit were measured preoperatively and at intervals postoperatively . coexistent hormonal abnormalities ( which occurred in all patients ) included acromegaly and hyperprolactinemia and were also monitored . all four patients who had tumors less than 2 cm in diameter remain alive . complete extirpation of tumor in these patients produced rapid correction of all hormonal abnormalities and resolution of clinical hyperthyroidism . the other four patients had larger invasive tumors : two died soon after surgery , one died of disseminated tumor 8 years after presentation , and one remains alive with residual tumor . tumors secreting thyroid-stimulating hormone are less easily cured by surgery than are other types of pituitary adenoma because of the large size and invasive features that many attain during the delay to diagnosis ; medical therapy can subdue the tumor but not cure it . the experience with these patients establishes the importance of early diagnosis and surgical excision for successful treatment , and demonstrates the utility of modern diagnostic techniques for finding these lesions . as occurs in nelson 's syndrome after adrenalectomy for cushing 's disease , ablation of the target organ may allow the tumor to convert to a more clinically malignant form which is resistant to cure . 
monosomy 22 in rhabdoid or atypical tumors of the brain . cytogenetic studies of three rare childhood brain tumors were performed . two children presented with pure rhabdoid tumors . the third child had a tumor composed of a mixture of rhabdoid elements with neuroepithelial , epithelial , and mesenchymal tissue - an atypical teratoid tumor . all three tumors demonstrated monosomy 22 as the only cytogenetic abnormality . the cytogenetic findings suggest that loss of a gene or genes on chromosome 22 may be involved in the initiation or progression of these malignant tumors . further studies on additional fresh tumor specimens are warranted ; however , it is possible that cytogenetic studies may be used as an additional means of diagnosing rhabdoid or atypical teratoid tumors of the brain . 
meningiomas mimicking cerebral schwannoma . a brain tumor with histological features reminiscent of schwannoma with underlying meningioangiomatosis was subjected to electron microscopic and immunohistochemical analysis , which confirmed the neoplasm as a meningioma . this prompted reexamination of a similar tumor , described in a previous publication as a cerebral schwannoma , with identical immunohistochemical techniques . the results obtained favored alteration of this diagnosis to that of meningioma . this experience has led the authors to recommend the use of immunohistochemistry techniques when evaluating unusual intracranial neoplasms . 
clonal origin of pituitary adenomas . benign pituitary adenomas are among the most common neurosurgical tumors and account for a diversity of clinical syndromes due to their hormone content and release . to determine whether these tumors arise from a single cell or multiple cells , the authors studied x chromosome inactivation in deoxyribonucleic acid ( dna ) isolated from pituitary adenomas in women . tumors of three different hormonal subtypes were examined . one tumor contained cells immunoreactive for prolactin and human growth hormone ; one tumor contained foci immunoreactive for the beta-subunits of luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone ; and the third tumor had no immunoreactive prolactin , human growth hormone , beta-subunits of thyroid-stimulating hormone , luteinizing hormone , or follicle-stimulating hormone , or the alpha-subunit . analysis of the dna revealed that , in each of the three pituitary tumors , one x chromosome was active in all cells and one x chromosome was inactive , indicating that each of these tumors was monoclonal in origin . it is concluded that clinically evident pituitary tumors arise from a genetic mutation in a single cell . 
characteristics and biological role of steroid hormone receptors in neuroepithelial tumors tissue samples from 57 patients with neuroepithelial tumors ( 25 glioblastomas , 18 anaplastic astrocytomas , and 14 astrocytomas ) were analyzed in order to evaluate the presence of estrogen , progesterone , glucocorticoid , and androgen receptors . glucocorticoid - and androgen-specific binding proteins were present in 38.6 % and 21.6 % of the cases , respectively . only a few tumors showed estrogen or progesterone receptors . a correlation was found between grade of anaplasia , patient 's sex and age , and presence of glucocorticoid and androgen receptors . the biological role of these two receptors was investigated in 10 primary cell cultures derived from neuroepithelial tumors . for this purpose , dexamethasone and testosterone were added to culture medium at different concentrations ( from 50 to 0.016 micrograms/ml ) . a significant stimulation of the cell growth was observed in four of five glucocorticoid receptor-positive cultures when dexamethasone in doses ranging from 2 to 0.016 microgram/ml was added to the culture . no modulation of the growth was observed in glucocorticoid receptor-negative cultures at the same doses . higher dexamethasone doses induced a significant decrease of the growth index independently from the glucocorticoid receptor status . all of the cultures tested for testosterone activity were negative for androgen receptors . this hormone induced an inhibition of the growth index at doses ranging from 50 to 0.4 micrograms/ml . the data suggest that neuroepithelial tumors contain specific glucocorticoid and androgen binding proteins . glucocorticoid receptors modulate the growth of cultured neuroepithelial tumors in the presence of different concentrations of dexamethasone . 
hormonal dependency of cerebral meningiomas . part 1 : female sex steroid receptors and their significance as specific markers for adjuvant medical therapy . female sex steroid receptors were examined in 50 human cerebral meningiomas . for estrogen receptors , high-affinity binding sites ( dissociation constant ( kd ) : 0.05 to 0.2 nm ) were found in the cytosolic fraction with a capacity of less than 4 fmol/mg protein in 10 meningiomas using a dextran-coated charcoal ( dcc ) assay . in the same cytosolic fraction , the solid-phase enzyme immunoassay revealed only one cytosol with a positive colorimetric reaction equal to 5 fmol/mg protein . however , in the nuclear compartment , none of the tumors stained positively for estrogen receptors with immunohistochemical techniques . in addition , the most convincing evidence for the absence of estrogen receptors was obtained by in situ hybridization using an oligonucleotide probe complementary to a fraction of the human receptor messenger ribonucleic acid ( mrna ) . in none of the 50 meningiomas was the expression of estrogen mrna coding for the estrogen receptor detected . for progesterone receptors , high-affinity binding sites ( kd : 0.3 to 2.6 nm ) were found in 49 of the 50 tumors using a dcc assay . in the same cytosols , solid-phase enzyme immunoassay revealed that each tumor was positive for progesterone receptors . however , in the nuclear compartment , only five tumors had partially positive staining for progesterone receptors with immunohistochemical techniques . within the confines of this study , it is concluded that : 1 ) the estrogen receptor is generally absent in meningioma tissue , and 2 ) the progesterone receptor is mainly absent in the nuclear compartment , leading to the conclusion that the cytosolic progesterone receptor may be an inactive form . this study suggests that female sex steroid receptors are not primarily involved in the proliferative rate of cerebral meningiomas and that they are of no current significance as markers for adjuvant medical therapy of most meningiomas . 
hormonal dependency of cerebral meningiomas . part 2 : in vitro effect of steroids , bromocriptine , and epidermal growth factor on growth of meningiomas . cell culture and biochemical techniques have been employed to examine the effects of steroids , bromocriptine , and epidermal growth factor ( egf ) on the growth and proliferative potential of meningiomas . in cell culture , the growth of meningiomas was not altered by progestogens , antiprogestogens , or 17beta-estradiol . the progestogen , norethisterone , had no effect on the uptake by meningiomas cell cultures of 3h-thymidine . furthermore , cytosolic deoxyribonucleic acid ( dna ) polymerase activity of meningiomas did not correlate with the progesterone receptor status of the same tumors . in contrast , the androgen antagonists , cyproterone acetate and 11-alpha-hydroxyprogesterone , and the dopamine agonist , bromocriptine , all inhibited the in vitro growth of meningioma cells . the growth of meningioma cell cultures was stimulated by egf , and there was a positive correlation between the egf content and dna polymerase activity in meningioma cytosols . these results demonstrate that female sex steroids do not influence growth of meningiomas in vitro , whereas antiandrogens and bromocriptine have an antiproliferative effect . consequently , bromocriptine and antiandrogens may have a role in the medical treatment of meningiomas . in addition , these results suggest that egf may be involved in the genesis and/or progression of meningiomas . 
fourth ventricular schwannoma . case report . a schwannoma arising from the dorsum of the pontomedullary junction and presenting as an exophytic mass in the fourth ventricle is described . a ventricular schwannoma has not previously been reported in the literature . the presenting clinical and radiographic features and the pathology of this tumor are summarized , and an explanation is sought for its unusual location . 
myxomatous cyst of the brachial plexus . case report . the case of a myxomatous cyst of the brachial plexus is presented . the clinical course is reported , and the frequency of the lesion , diagnostic workup , histopathology , and surgical therapy are discussed . 
intradural epithelial cyst at the craniovertebral junction . case report . a case of an intradural epithelial cyst at the craniovertebral junction is reported in a 37-year-old man . the classification of these rare lesions is discussed . 
lymphocele : the spectrum of scintigraphic findings in lymphoceles associated with renal transplant . lymphocele is a well recognized complication of renal transplant surgery . we performed a retrospective review of 305 renal transplant patients with over 2,500 scintigraphic exams to describe the pattern of activity on technetium-99m-dtpa blood flow and dynamic imaging , and iodine-131-oih studies . diagnostic criteria for a lymphocele were ultrasonic evidence of a perirenal fluid collection and analysis of that fluid that demonstrated bun , creatinine , and electrolytes similar to the patient 's plasma . scintigraphic findings were attributed to a lymphocele if abnormalities were in the same area as the ultrasound fluid collection . scintigraphic findings attributable to lymphocele resolved in all patients following surgical drainage or peritoneal window placement . six of the 11 documented lymphoceles demonstrated a cold defect on initial dynamic images that " filled in " to equal background activity and another exceeded background . three cases showed a rim of increased activity surrounding the lymphocele ( " rim sign " ) . 
scintigraphic evaluation of aggressive fibromatosis . despite its benign microscopic appearance , aggressive fibromatosis has potential to recur and infiltrate neighboring tissues . therefore , it is necessary to determine the exact extent before therapy . in the present study , 11 cases of aggressive fibromatosis were examined scintigraphically using [ 99mtc ( v ) ] dimercaptosuccinic acid ( 11 cases ) and 67ga-citrate ( 7 cases ) . technetium-99m - ( v ) - dimercaptosuccinic acid demonstrated all lesions , while 67ga-citrate detected 57 % of the cases . 
n - [ 18f ] fluoroacetyl-d-glucosamine : a potential agent for cancer diagnosis positron labeled substrates such as sugars , amino acids , and nucleosides have been investigated for the in-vivo evaluation of biochemical processes in cancerous tissue . hexosamines are obligatory structural components of many biologically important macromolecules , including membrane glycoproteins and mucopolysaccharide . we evaluated a new synthesized pharmaceutical , n - [ 18f ] fluoroacetyl-d-glucosamine ( 18f-fag ) , which is a structural analog of n-acetyl-d-glucosamine . c3h/hemsnrs mice bearing spontaneous hepatomas were used for the tissue distribution study . at 60 min after injection , high uptakes were found in tumor ( 5.16 , mean value of % dose/g ) , liver ( 3.71 ) , and kidney ( 3.27 ) . the tumor uptake of 18f-fag showed the highest value in all tissue . in the pet study , vx-2 carcinoma of the rabbit was clearly visualized . our preliminary results suggest that 18f-fag has potential as a new agent for tumor imaging . 
invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the mandible presenting as a chronic osteomyelitis : report of a case . a case of invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the mandible initially thought to be chronic osteomyelitis is reviewed . discussion of the origin of the tumor and several imaging techniques used for differentiating maxillofacial infection from neoplasm are discussed . the difficulty of diagnosis of chronic painful maxillofacial lesions illustrates the need for a high degree of suspicion concerning any inflammatory lesion not responding to appropriate therapy . accurate diagnosis and treatment of such lesions most often necessitates microscopic examination . 
detection of human papillomavirus-genomic dna in oral epithelial dysplasias , oral smokeless tobacco-associated leukoplakias , and epithelial malignancies . human papillomavirus ( hpv ) is an infectious agent that is increasingly associated with mucosal cancers , in particular cancer of the cervix . the present investigation was undertaken in an attempt to determine whether hpv could be easily detected in biopsies of oral tissues , specifically oral squamous cell carcinomas , oral epithelial dysplasias , smokeless tobacco keratoses , verrucous hyperplasia , and verrucous carcinoma . in situ dna hybridization methods were used to isolate specific hpv genomes . among 100 instances of benign leukoplakia , only 4 % of non-tobacco-related and 10 % of smokeless tobacco-related lesions harbored viral sequences . we were able to detect viral sequences in dysplastic lesions 3 % of the time . alternatively , 17 % and 20 % of the verrucous hyperplasias and verrucous carcinomas were positive for viral nucleic acids . six percent of the squamous cell carcinomas harbored hpv . on the basis of these findings , it is concluded that hpv of known genotype can be identified in oral premalignant and malignant neoplasms . 
desmoplastic variant of ameloblastoma : report of a case and review of the literature . a case of desmoplastic variant of ameloblastoma is reported . the lesion , in a 36-year-old japanese woman , was successfully treated by partial maxillectomy . reconstruction was carried out with a block of hydroxyapatite about 7 years and 6 months later . six cases , including our case , reported up to the present are summarized and reviewed . 
characterization of the effect of two 4-methyl piperidine derivatives of hemicholinium-3 , a-4 and a-5 , on choline transport . a-4 and a-5 are tertiary and n-methyl quaternary 4-methylpiperidine analogs of hemicholinium-3 ( hc-3 ) . previous work in this laboratory has shown a-4 and a-5 to be inhibitors of the sodium-dependent , high affinity choline uptake system ( sdhacu ) . their effects on choline transport were characterized further using neuroblastoma 41a3 cells . these cells rapidly take up choline through two separate mechanisms : a sdhacu system and a sodium-independent , low affinity uptake system ( silacu ) . a-4 , a-5 and hc-3 decreased 5 microm choline transport in a dose-dependent fashion . the compounds were unable to decrease choline transport at 250 microm choline suggesting that they are inactive with respect to silacu . all three compounds significantly increased the km but not the vmax for the sdhacu system , suggesting a competitive mechanism of inhibition . ki values ranged from 18 to 25 microm for a-4 , 20 to 26 microm for a-5 and 68 to 75 microm for hc-3 . dose-response curves for inhibition of choline transport by a-5 and hc-3 were not changed by a 24-hr pre-exposure of the cells to each inhibitor . however , after a 24-hr pre-exposure to a-4 , a significantly different dose-response curve was obtained compared to the dose-response curve for a-4 in untreated cells . after a 24-hr pre-exposure , a 4-hr recovery period was sufficient to remove the effect of each compound . these data suggest that a-4 and a-5 , like hc-3 , inhibit the sdhacu , competitively and reversibly . 
ruptured mature cystic teratoma of the ovary with recurrence in the liver and colon 17 years later . a case report . a mature cystic teratoma of the ovary occurred in a 51-year-old woman and recurred as a large intrahepatic tumor mass as well as a small mass in the transverse colon 17 years after rupture , intraperitoneal spillage of tumor contents and subtotal surgical removal of the ovarian lesion and peritoneal implants . the patient was treated with a partial hepatectomy and a segmental transverse colectomy . the recurrent lesions , which contained histologically fully mature teratomatous elements only , were excised ; the result was a complete cure . to our knowledge this is the first documented report on such a complication of mature cystic teratoma of the ovary . 
conservative therapy for adnexal torsion . a case report . adnexal torsion has traditionally been treated with oophorectomy because of the fear that untwisting the ovarian pedicle may result in a thrombotic embolus . such a patient had bilateral adnexal torsion secondary to dermoid cysts . since standard therapy , oophorectomy , was performed , the patient was surgically castrated . a review of the literature revealed no reported cases of a thrombotic embolus arising from the untwisting of twisted adnexa and supported conservation of the adnexa rather than routine extirpation , except when necrotic . 
localization of trophoblastic disease with vaginal ultrasonography . a report of two cases . two patients had elevated beta-human chorionic gonadotropin levels and normal abdominal ultrasound examinations . in both instances transvaginal ultrasonography demonstrated a persistent nodule of trophoblastic disease confirmed at the time of hysterectomy . this new imaging modality can assist in the diagnosis of persistent trophoblastic disease in the uterus . 
an unusual manifestation of paget 's disease of bone : spinal epidural hematoma presenting as acute cauda equina syndrome . neurologic sequelae of paget 's disease of bone include involvement of the spinal cord or cauda equina due to mechanical compression by enlarged vertebrae , ischemia caused by a spinal artery , steal syndrome or neoplasm . we describe a patient with paget 's disease of bone who presented with acute cauda equina syndrome due to a spinal epidural hematoma . clinicians need to recognize this entity since surgical intervention may result in a favorable outcome . 
presentation of breast carcinoma as volkmann 's contracture due to skeletal muscle metastases . metastases to the skeletal muscles are extremely rare . they usually occur during the course of a pulmonary or digestive carcinoma . we describe a case of breast carcinoma presenting with forearm muscle metastases and volkmann 's type contracture . 
increasing annual incidence of primary malignant brain tumors in the elderly between 1973 and 1985 , total age-adjusted cancer incidence in the united states ( all races , men and women ) rose by 10.7 % , with an average annual percentage change of +0.9 % . analysis of reported age-specific incidence of primary malignant brain tumors over the same years demonstrates that incidence rates increased dramatically between 1973/1974 and 1985 . in 1985 , incidence rates for persons aged 75-79 , 80-84 , and 85 years of age and over were 187 % , 394 % , and 501 % , respectively , of rates in 1973/1974 . similar increases were found in both men and women , analyzed separately and combined . average annual percentage changes in primary brain tumor incidence were +7.0 % , +20.4 % , and +23.4 % in these age ranges , respectively . reported incidence in younger persons varied little over the same period of time . the most common histologic type of primary brain tumor in the elderly was of glial origin , predominantly the glioblastoma multiforme and astrocytoma . these tumors are highly malignant and invariably fatal . two possible causes may explain the increased incidence in the elderly : the introduction and extensive use of x-ray computed tomography since 1973 and/or a true increase in incidence occurring independently of diagnostic advances . 
methionine dependency of malignant tumors : a possible approach for therapy when methionine ( met ) , an essential amino acid , was substituted for by its precursor homocysteine ( hcy ) in the culture medium , normal cells such as fibroblasts proliferated normally . in contrast , many tumor cells failed to grow or grew at a lower rate . met dependency is acquired simultaneously with cell transformation , as observed with hbl 100 , a human mammary epithelial cell line that acquired increased malignancy as a function of in vitro passage number , and nih/3t3 ( j10 ) , a mouse fibroblast line transformed by transfection with the human hras oncogene . a relationship was observed between met dependency and metastatic potential of the rms-21 , rms-s4t , and rms-j1 sublines derived from rms-0 , a rat rhabdomyosarcoma cell line : the higher the metastatic potential of the cell line , the higher the concentration of met required to maintain its proliferation . met-independent cells derived from the rms-0 line , obtained by a progressive decrease of met in the culture medium lost their tumorigenicity when injected into rats fed with met-deprived diets . in addition , the in vitro motility of rms-s4t tumor cells , a marker of metastatic capability , decreased in met-free hcy-complemented ( met - hcy + ) medium . similarly , rms-0 tumor cells , preincubated in a met - hcy + culture medium for 24 hours , evidenced a decreased capacity to form lung colonies when injected into syngeneic rats : the median number of lung colonies was 27 and 3 ( p less than .05 ) for cells cultivated in met + hcy - and met - hcy + media , respectively . an amino acid-defined mixture reproducing casein composition was used as a protein source in the diets fed to rms-j1 tumor-bearing rats . dietary substitution of hcy for met ( i.e. , met deprivation ) resulted in decreased tumor growth ( from 44.4 + / - 1.0 to 40.6 + / - 1.4 ; p less than .05 ) and prevention of metastatic spread ( from 37 to 0 ; p less than .05 ) . in conclusion , exogenous met can be substituted for hcy to maintain the survival of normal cells but is essential for tumor cell growth in vivo as well as in vitro . therefore , this defect of cancerous versus normal cells could be used for a therapeutic purpose . 
low metastatic potential of clone from murine colon adenocarcinoma 26 increased by transfection of activated c-erbb-2 gene . we investigated the effect of an activated c-erbb-2 gene ( also known as erbb2 ) on metastatic potential . the c-erbb-2 gene was activated by mutation of the valine at position 659 within the transmembrane domain to glutamic acid . the activated c-erbb-2 expression vector was transfected into low-metastatic-potential nl-4 cells , which were established from a metastatic variant of murine colon adenocarcinoma 26 . all 10 clones produced lung metastases in balb/c mice injected via the tail vein . eight of the 10 clones expressed messenger rna ( mrna ) of activated c-erbb-2 and showed morphological alteration ; seven of the eight produced significantly enhanced experimental metastatic activity compared with that of untransfected nl-4 or nl-4neo cells , and one had metastatic ability similar to that of nl-4 cells . two clones did not express c-erbb-2 mrna and did not show morphological alteration or highly metastatic phenotype . five of the 10 clones subcutaneously implanted in the flank failed to produce metastasis in the lungs or other organs of the mice . the metastatic ability of the other five clones was not determined . these results indicate that the activated c-erbb-2 gene can enhance experimental but not spontaneous metastatic potential in nl-4 cells , suggesting participation of the gene in the metastatic process after initial arrest and lodgement in the capillary bed . 
new active analogues of vitamin d with low calcemic activity . in conclusion , a number vitamin d analogues have been developed that have very low calcemic activity but retain several other properties of 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 , including the ability to differentiate leukemia and skin cells , to enhance the immune response , and to suppress parathyroid hormone levels . although the mechanism of this selective activity is not yet clear , these analogues may provide new insights into the differences in action of 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 in various target tissues . most importantly , the selective action of these analogues may be exploited for the treatment of diseases such as leukemia , psoriasis and hyperparathyroidism . 
effect of prostaglandin e in multiple experimental models : v. effect on tumor/host interaction . prostaglandin e ( pge ) has long been incriminated as a cause of the immunosuppression seen in cancer patients and for the increased rates of tumor growth due to the impairment of the immunologic response to the tumor . we have investigated the effect of pge on tumor-host interaction by utilizing a parenterally administered long-acting pge derivative , 16,16-dimethyl-prostaglandin e ( dpge ) . administration of dpge was found to decrease the rate of tumor growth but at a cost of decreasing tumor-free body mass . the dpge did not alter resting metabolic rates but did alter some parts of brain dopamine metabolism and significantly decreased the serum level of multiple amino acids . in conclusion , elevated pge levels may significantly alter metabolism in tumor patients . 
malignant melanoma occurring during pregnancy : a report of the northern israel oncology center ( 1968-1988 ) . medical records of seven patients treated within a 20 year period for malignant melanoma during pregnancy were reviewed . no significant detrimental prognostic effects could be attributed to pregnancy . the current literature on melanoma and pregnancy is discussed . based on this , pregnancy seems not to be contraindicated in melanoma patients . 
cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide combination as neoadjuvant chemotherapy for locally advanced nonsmall-cell lung cancer : a meta-analytic review . twenty-three patients with marginally resectable and unresectable non-small-cell lung cancer ( stages iiia and iiib ) were treated by neoadjuvant chemotherapy . all patients received three cycles of preoperative chemotherapy with two alkylating agents , cyclophosphamide 2.5 g/m2 intravenously ( i.v. ) and ifosfamide 3.5 g/m2 i.v. , mesna 12 g/m2 was given additionally to prevent drug hematuria . six of 23 patients ( 26 % ) had partial response . of the seven patients who underwent thoracotomy , two were completely resected , but with macroscopic residual disease . mean time to progression for the whole group was 7 months . fifteen patients had progression of disease , with local metastases only in six , and distant metastases in eight . after administering 52 chemotherapy cycles , cyclophosphamide-ifosfamide doses were cut down , as eight of 16 patients required hospitalization for fever during neutropenia nadirs . this two-alkylating ( non-cisplatin ) regimen , unlike cisplatin-based regimens , was ineffective , and further trials are not recommended . 
renal vein leiomyosarcoma . the 11th case of primary leiomyosarcoma of the renal vein is reported . unique features of this case included concomitant resection of an isolated hepatic metastasis , intraoperative radiation therapy , and the use of electron microscopy and immunohistochemical stains in confirming the diagnosis . a review of the previously reported cases shows a tendency toward slow tumor growth and infrequent recurrence ( 18 % ) . metastases are common ( 82 % ) , primarily to the lung and liver . aggressive surgical resection and adjuvant radiation therapy , including intraoperative radiation therapy , are recommended . adjuvant chemotherapy should be considered , although its benefits at present are unclear . 
adrenal carcinosarcoma . the clinical and pathologic features of a case of adrenal carcinosarcoma are reported . although synchronous malignancy of the adrenal gland has been described , no case of an adrenal tumor combining both carcinomatous and sarcomatous elements has been previously documented . this neoplasm is extremely aggressive with distant metastasis arising from the sarcomatous component , and rapid progression despite multimodal therapy . 
distinguishing malignant mesothelioma from pulmonary adenocarcinoma : an immuno-histochemical approach using a panel of monoclonal antibodies . a panel of six monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) was employed to evaluate antigen expression in pulmonary adenocarcinomas and mesotheliomas . monoclonal anti-human milk fat globulin ( hmfg-2 ) , anti-carcinoembryonic antigen ( np-2 ) , anti-epithelial membrane antigen ( ema ) , anti-cytokeratin ( pkk-1 ) , anti-tumor-associated antigen 72 ( b72 .3 ) , and anti-human myelomonocytic antigen ( leu m-1 ) antibodies were used to localize their respective antigens in formalin-fixed , paraffin-embedded tumors by using the avidin-biotin-complex immunoperoxidase technique . in all , 28 mesotheliomas obtained from ohio state university anatomic pathology files and from a southwest oncology group ( swog ) protocol were compared to 22 pulmonary adenocarcinomas by using this mab panel . none of the mesotheliomas demonstrated positive staining with mabs np-2 ( anti-cea ) or leu m-1 . however , 95 % ( 21/22 ) of adenocarcinomas stained with one of these two antibodies . although neither of these two mabs stained all adenocarcinomas , each antibody demonstrated positive immunostaining in more than 90 % of the adenocarcinomas studied . therefore , mabs np-2 and leu m-1 are , individually , quite useful for distinguishing mesothelioma from adenocarcinoma . however , in our study , no single mab could be used to distinguish these two tumor types in every case . mab b72 .3 stained 91 % ( 20/21 ) adenocarcinomas but also stained 7 % ( 2/28 ) of mesotheliomas . mab hmfg-2 reacted positively with 95 % of adenocarcinomas , but also stained 39 % of the mesotheliomas , usually in a membranous pattern . mabs ema and pkk-1 were not found useful in distinguishing mesothelioma from adenocarcinoma . we conclude that mabs leu m-1 and np-2 were both useful in distinguishing mesothelioma from pulmonary adenocarcinoma in that positive staining was demonstrated in adenocarcinomas and not mesotheliomas . 
clinicopathological features of elevated lesions of the duodenal bulb . we present here our findings on patients with an elevated lesion of the duodenal bulb . all these patients were treated in our clinics between the years 1984 and 1988 . these lesions were present in 36 of 8,802 patients who underwent upper gastrointestinal pan-endoscopy . two patients had a duodenal carcinoma , 2 an adenoma , and 1 a brunner 's gland adenoma . there were 15 with a hyperplastic polyp , 3 with a heterogenic gastric mucosa , 3 with brunner 's gland hyperplasia , 6 with duodenitis , and 4 with regenerative mucosa . among these 36 lesions , only 69 % ( 25 lesions ) were evident on the upper gastrointestinal x-ray series . adenoma and brunner 's gland adenoma were of a pedunculated form of the gross type and had an irregular surface mucosa . both duodenal carcinomas were detected by endoscopic biopsy and were resected . histologically , these lesions were limited to the submucosal layer and were of the non-pedunculated polypoid form , but there were no other characteristic endoscopic features , in comparison with other elevated lesions . thus , upper gastrointestinal endoscopy with routine observations of the duodenal bulb plus endoscopic biopsy will lead to a definite diagnosis of these elevated lesions and to the early detection and treatment of this rare malignant lesion . 
utility of surgical margins in the radiotherapeutic management of soft tissue sarcomas . seventy-four adult patients with localized soft tissue sarcomas were treated with radiation therapy following surgery between 1965 and 1988 . fifty-three were treated after the first excision of their tumor with 6 ( 11.3 % ) local recurrences . twenty-one received radiation after excision of recurrent disease with 11 ( 52.4 % ) local failures ( p less than .0005 ) . metastatic disease occurred in 14 ( 26.4 % ) of the primary tumors and 8 ( 38.1 % ) with multiple previous excisions ( p less than .48 ) . of those patients treated for primary sarcoma , there were no local failures with pathologically wide margins or if a single margin was microscopically positive . local failure occurred in 4 of 26 ( 15.4 % ) if the tumor was merely enucleated and in 2 of 11 ( 18.2 % ) who had grossly positive surgical margins ( p not significant ) . local failure was also more common in truncal locations ( 33.3 % ) as compared with extremity locations ( 8.7 % , p = .1359 ) . additional factors analyzed which adversely affected prognosis included tumor grade , stage , and inadequate radiation dose . 
acral melanoma : a review of 185 patients with identification of prognostic variables . one hundred eight-five patients with acral melanoma treated since 1972 were reviewed . these included 53 subungual lesions , 123 plantar lesions , and 9 palmar lesions . eighty percent presented with stage i disease . mean age was 57 years . males outnumbered females 1.1:1 . seventeen percent ( 17 % ) were blacks . actuarial 10-year survival was 58 % for stage i patients and 35 % for stage ii patients . univariate cox regression analyses identified 5 prognostic variables affecting survival : stage at diagnosis ( p less than 0.001 ) , race ( p less than 0.001 ) , ulceration ( p = 0.012 ) , clark 's level ( p = 0.014 ) , and thickness of the primary lesion ( p = 0.013 ) . factors unrelated to survival included sex of the patient , site ( volar vs. subungual ) , histology , and treatment with amputation . multivariate analysis for patients with stage i lesions identified race ( p = 0.001 ) and ulceration ( p = 0.018 ) as significant variables , with thickness approaching significance ( p = 0.094 ) . in an additional series of 71 patients with melanomas arising from extremity sites near the junction of glabrous and non-glabrous skin , survival was significantly poorer for those arising from glabrous skin ( p = 0.024 ) , and reflects a higher incidence of metastatic disease at diagnosis . specific active immunotherapy was the principal adjuvant used for these patients , and survival was comparable to that reported with regional perfusion therapy . acral melanoma a ) has a strong racial predilection , b ) carries a grave prognosis , and c ) arises from glabrous skin . it is a clinical entity distinct from other extremity melanomas . surgical management with either wide excision or amputation is appropriate for the primary lesion . 
long-term experience with a totally implanted catheter system in cancer patients . long-term experience with totally implanted catheter systems ( tics ) is limited . we retrospectively evaluated the performance and long-term complications of tics for intravenous infusion in cancer patients ; 134 systems were implanted in 128 patients . the median duration of implantation was 144 weeks with 49 systems implanted for more than one year . complications related to surgical factors included malposition of reservoir ( 2 % ) , skin perforation or wound dehiscence ( 1.5 % ) and pneumothorax ( less than 1 % ) . complications not related to surgical factors included : drug extravasation ( 1.5 % ) , mechanical malfunction ( 1.5 % ) , vein thrombosis ( less than 1 % ) , clotting of the reservoir or catheter ( 2 % ) , skin infection ( 1.5 % ) , and sepsis ( less than 1 % ) . the total complication rate was 13 % . most complications resolved spontaneously or with medical treatment and only 6 patients ( 4.6 % ) required re-implantation of a second system . we conclude that with long-term usage of tics , the complication rate remains low , making it a safe and viable alternative for patients requiring long-term intravenous therapy . 
cutaneous malignant melanoma in rochester , minnesota : trends in incidence and survivorship , 1950 through 1985 in rochester , minnesota , 107 incidence cases of cutaneous malignant melanoma ( in 46 male and 61 female patients ) were diagnosed during the years 1950 through 1985 . overall crude incidence rates were 6.0 and 6.6 per 100,000 males and females , respectively . evaluation of trends in 9-year periods showed that the rates increased from 3.2 to 8.9 for males ( p = 0.015 ) and from 4.4 to 11.7 for females ( p less than 0.001 ) . age-specific rates suggested that the highest incidence occurs in the age-groups 50 to 59 years and 70 years or older for males and 40 to 49 years and 70 years or older for females . lesions were most common in the head and neck area among males ( p = 0.044 ) and on the lower extremities among females ( p = 0.018 ) . the most frequent histologic type was superficial spreading melanoma ( 61 % ) . five-year survival was diminished overall for patients with cutaneous malignant melanoma -- 0.72 in comparison with 0.88 expected for the general population . statistically significant risk factors for survival were depth of invasion of the lesion ( clark level ) , thickness of the lesion , histologic type , and age of the patient . 
diagnosis of corticotropin-producing bronchial carcinoid tumors causing cushing 's syndrome cushing 's syndrome due to ectopic production of adrenocorticotropic hormone ( corticotropin ) has been recognized for many years . traditionally , clinicians have thought that most cases were due to lung carcinomas and that the clinical manifestations differed from those for pituitary-dependent cushing 's syndrome . we report two cases of corticotropin-producing bronchial carcinoid tumors that were clinically and biochemically indistinguishable from pituitary-dependent cushing 's syndrome . review of the literature revealed that bronchial carcinoid tumors are the most common cause of cushing 's syndrome due to ectopic secretion of corticotropin . on biochemical and anatomic studies , they are frequently indistinguishable from pituitary-dependent cushing 's syndrome and thus may be difficult to diagnose . inferior petrosal sinus sampling for corticotropin and computerized imaging of the chest may be the best aids in making the diagnosis . 
adult t-cell leukaemia/lymphoma in brazil and its relation to htlv-i in a series of fourteen patients with adult t-cell lymphoma-leukaemia ( atll ) in brazil the main features were lymphadenopathy , hepatosplenomegaly , hypercalcaemia , and high leucocyte counts , with abnormal lymphoid cells which had irregular nuclei . the series included the youngest patient with atll so far ( 18 months ) . analysis with monoclonal antibodies showed a mature t-cell phenotype ( cd4 + , cd8 - ) . antibodies to htlv-i and/or integration of htlv-i proviral dna were found in eleven patients . in the other three htlv-i dna could not be demonstrated even by means of the polymerase chain reaction ; they therefore had htlv-i-negative atll . this report of atll in brazil corroborates serological reports that htlv-i may be endemic in some parts of that country . follow-up studies are required to identify precisely the main route of transmission of htlv-i in south america and the risk factors for the development of atll in carriers . 
conservation surgery for glomus jugulare tumors : the value of early diagnosis . the results of lateral cranial base surgery for glomus jugulare tumors are gratifying when normal anatomy and function can be preserved . the goal of conservation surgery is to preserve normal ear anatomy and cranial nerve function . in general , conservation surgery is tumor-size dependent . thus , excellent states of functional recovery depend upon accurate early diagnosis . this paper reviews the technical aspects of transtemporal conservation skull base tumor surgery while also reviewing our experience with nearly 100 glomus jugulare patients . adjuvants to early diagnosis will be highlighted from a review of presenting symptoms , clinical signs , and related diagnosis . our objective is to provoke a high index of suspicion in physicians charged with the responsibility of diagnosing these tumors . diagnostic guidelines are proposed . 
local control of auricular , periauricular , and external canal cutaneous malignancies with mohs surgery . three hundred ninety-seven patients with 407 cutaneous malignancies of the auricle , periauricular region , and cartilaginous external ear canal were reviewed . tumors were most commonly located in the preauricular and postauricular regions , followed by the helix , concha , antihelix , and ear canal . all lesions were excised with mohs microscopic control of margins . for lesions requiring lateral temporal bone resection , an adaptation of fresh-tissue microscopic control was used to analyze deep and anterior margins suspected of harboring residual tumor . two-year minimum follow-up of 229 patients with periauricular and auricular tumors ( n = 231 tumors ) and 14 patients with cartilaginous ear canal tumors ( n = 14 tumors ) revealed recurrence rates of 6.9 % and 14.3 % , respectively . recurrences were most common in cases of large tumors ( greater than 2.5 cm ) , basal cell carcinomas with morphea elements , and multiply recurrent lesions . we conclude that mohs surgery is comparatively effective , though not uniformly curative , and can be adapted to supplement excision of large tumors in these regions . 
olfactory neuroblastoma : clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical characterization of four representative cases . olfactory neuroblastomas are rare tumors whose clinical prognosis is not predictable by assessment of initial stage or grade . the pathologic diagnosis is often difficult because of the wide range of the patient 's age and histologies . in this report , we document that the diagnosis of olfactory neuroblastoma can be clarified by immunohistochemical demonstration of a unique antigenic profile that can be obtained in routinely processed biopsies . we describe four cases of olfactory neuroblastoma diagnosed and treated from 1979 to 1989 , each confirmed by immunohistology . one of our patients was misdiagnosed twice at an outside institution , first as having nasopharyngeal carcinoma and then as having small-cell , undifferentiated " oat cell " carcinoma . despite accurate tumor diagnosis and appropriate therapy , we found that there was no apparent correlation of clinical outcome with kadish clinical stage or histologic grade of tumor . 
le fort i osteotomy approach to the skull base . horizontal osteotomy allows the surgeon to safely down-fracture the maxilla for wide exposure of the central skull base . this surgical approach is easily extended posteriorly in the midline to include the clivus and the arch of c1 , providing 8 cm of horizontal anterior exposure and 5 cm of posterior . wide operative exposure and a low rate of complications afford superior functional and cosmetic preservation in removing tumors of the central cranial base . 
imaging of pharyngeal and laryngeal carcinomas with indium-111-labeled monoclonal anti-cea antibodies . localization of primary tumors , metastases , or recurrences in 13 consecutive patients with histological verification of squamous cell or adenocarcinoma was made with radioimmunodetection using monoclonal radiolabeled anti-cea antibody . all surgical specimens stained immunohistochemically , except one , were positive for cea . of the known 19 tumor sites 17 were visualized in antibody scans . there were two positive findings that did not prove to be positive during 12 month follow-up . the scintigram findings did not correlate with cea serum concentrations that , with one exception , were normal in all patients . 
surgical therapy of the eyelids in patients with facial paralysis . patients with facial paralysis have a degree of lagophthalmos and paralytic ectropion . we present our experience in the surgical management of 25 consecutive patients treated for these problems . paralytic lagophthalmos was corrected using gold weights inserted into the upper eyelid . the advantages and disadvantages of this surgical technique are reviewed . medial canthoplasty and lateral canthoplasty were performed to rectify paralytic ectropion . ancillary procedures included browpexy , upper-lid blepharoplasty , and temporalis sling . the results were excellent in 23 of 25 patients and good in the remaining two . after a minimum of 6 months ' follow-up , there were no complications . the authors believe that the above procedures will yield consistently excellent cosmetic and functional results in patients with paralysis of the eyelids . 
endoscopic laser surgery for early glottic carcinoma : a clinical and experimental study . the purpose of this study is to define the indications for using the co2 laser for the treatment of early glottic cancer . for this purpose , 52 consecutive laser resections of tis to t2 vocal cord carcinomas were studied prospectively . in addition , laser resection was performed in eight human cadaver larynges , which were then examined histologically using whole organ sections . both tumor size and tumor location had important influences on tumor resectability by laser . all of the tis , 78 % of t1 , and one of four t2 carcinomas were successfully treated by laser surgery alone . of the 10 carcinomas involving the anterior commissure , only four could completely be resected with the laser ; of these four , two recurred in the anterior commissure . this finding is corroborated by the histologic study , which clearly shows that anterior commissure resection poses problems . the only laser resection complication of early glottic cancer was persistent hoarseness in one third of the patients . it is concluded that co2 laser resection is a safe and effective alternative treatment for patients with tis and t1 glottic carcinoma , provided the anterior commissure is free of tumor . 
clinical classification and staging for primary malignancies of the maxillary antrum . a study of 51 patients with primary malignant maxillary sinus neoplasms was conducted . none of the patients had neck nodes and/or metastases , and each had 5-year follow-up . the tumors were staged according to the 1983 and 1988 american joint committee on cancer staging systems for maxillary sinus cancers . there were 13 early stage ( t1 , t2 ) and 38 advanced ( t3 , t4 ) tumors in both systems . cox regression analyses of survival curves showed increasingly worse prognoses for advanced tumors in both t-staging systems . further analyses showed a significant difference in survival between t3 and t4 in the 1988 , but not in the 1983 system . there were no significant differences in survival according to treatment modality or histological type of malignancy . we conclude that the 1988 system prognosticates successfully for t-stage ( 1 to 4 ) and demonstrates significant improvement in detecting t3 versus t4 differences compared to the 1983 system . the 1988 system applies equally for epidermoid cancer and other malignancies of the antrum . 
magnetic resonance in pediatric and adolescent neuroimaging . with improved availability and a practical understanding of the principles of utilization , mri will continue to replace ct and us in pediatric neuroimaging , just as it has impacted upon the more invasive modalities . in general , us remains the procedure of choice for screening of fetal and infant cns abnormalities , and ct continues as the principal screening modality beyond infancy and especially for acute , emergent presentations . mri has now emerged as a primary option for screening as well as for more definitive assessment of many intracranial and most intraspinal conditions . 
ulcerative colitis and colorectal cancer . a population-based study . background . the risk of colorectal cancer is increased among patients with ulcerative colitis . the magnitude of this increase in risk and the effects of the length of follow-up , the extent of disease at diagnosis , and age at diagnosis vary substantially in different studies . methods . to provide accurate estimates of the risk of colorectal cancer among patients with ulcerative colitis , we studied a population-based cohort of 3117 patients given a diagnosis of ulcerative colitis from 1922 through 1983 who were followed up through 1984 . results . ninety-two cases of colorectal cancer occurred in 91 patients . as compared with the expected incidence , the incidence of colorectal cancer in the cohort was increased ( standardized incidence ratio [ ratio of observed to expected cases ] = 5.7 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 4.6 to 7.0 ) . less extensive disease at diagnosis was associated with a lower risk ; for patients with ulcerative proctitis , the standardized incidence ratio was 1.7 ( 95 percent confidence interval , 0.8 to 3.2 ) ; for those with left-sided colitis , 2.8 ( 95 percent confidence interval , 1.6 to 4.4 ) ; and for those with pancolitis ( extensive colitis , or inflammation of the entire colon ) , 14.8 ( 95 percent confidence interval , 11.4 to 18.9 ) . age at diagnosis and the extent of disease at diagnosis were strong and independent risk factors for colorectal cancer . for each increase in age group at diagnosis ( less than 15 years , 15 to 29 years , 30 to 39 years , 40 to 49 years , 50 to 59 years , and greater than or equal to 60 years ) , the relative risk of colorectal cancer , adjusted for the extent of disease at diagnosis , decreased by about half ( adjusted standardized incidence ratio = 0.51 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 0.46 to 0.56 ) . the absolute risk of colorectal cancer 35 years after diagnosis was 30 percent for patients with pancolitis at diagnosis and 40 percent for those given this diagnosis at less than 15 years of age . conclusions . close surveillance and perhaps even prophylactic proctocolectomy should be recommended for patients given a diagnosis of pancolitis , especially those who are less than 15 years of age at diagnosis . 
somatostatin-receptor imaging in the localization of endocrine tumors background and methods . a number of different tumors have receptors for somatostatin . we evaluated the efficacy of scanning with 123i-labeled tyr3-octreotide , a somatostatin analogue , for tumor localization in 42 patients with carcinoid tumors , pancreatic endocrine tumors , or paragangliomas . we then evaluated the response to octreotide therapy in some of these patients . results . primary tumors or metastases , often previously unrecognized , were visualized in 12 of 13 patients with carcinoid tumors and in 7 of 9 patients with pancreatic endocrine tumors . the endocrine symptoms of these patients responded well to therapy with octreotide . among 20 patients with paragangliomas , 8 of whom had more than one tumor , 10 temporal ( tympanic or jugular ) , 9 carotid , and 10 vagal tumors could be visualized . one small tympanic tumor and one small carotid tumor were not seen on the scan . conclusions . the 123i-labeled tyr3-octreotide scanning technique is a rapid and safe procedure for the visualization of some tumors with somatostatin receptors . a positive scan may predict the ability of octreotide therapy to control symptoms of hormonal hypersecretion . 
the t ( 15 ; 17 ) translocation of acute promyelocytic leukaemia fuses the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene to a novel transcribed locus . retinoic acid is a vitamin a derivative with striking effects on development and cell differentiation . several nuclear retinoic acid receptors ( rars ) , acting as ligand-inducible transcription factors , have been characterized and indirect evidence suggests that they have distinct roles . one of the most intriguing properties of retinoic acid is its ability to induce in vivo differentiation of acute promyelocytic leukaemia ( apl ) cells into mature granulocytes , leading to morphological complete remissions . because the rar alpha gene maps to chromosome 17q21 ( ref . 14 ) , close to the t ( 15 ; 17 ) ( q21-q11-22 ) translocation specifically associated with apl , we analysed rar alpha gene structure and expression in apl cells . we report here that , in one apl-derived cell line , the rar alpha gene has been translocated to a locus , myl , on chromosome 15 , resulting in the synthesis of a myl/rar alpha fusion messenger rna . using two probes located on either side of the cloned breakpoint , we have found genomic rearrangements of one or other locus in six patients out of eight , demonstrating that the rar alpha and/or myl genes are frequently rearranged in apl and the breakpoints are clustered . these findings strongly implicate retinoic acid receptor alpha in leukaemogenesis . 
response of the lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome to treatment of associated small-cell lung carcinoma . we evaluated the outcome in 16 patients with lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome ( lems ) associated with histologically verified small-cell carcinoma ( scc ) . thirteen patients received specific tumor therapy ( chemotherapy , radiation therapy , or resection ) and most also received pharmacologic and immunologic treatment for lems . seven of 11 patients surviving for more than 2 months after tumor therapy showed substantial neurologic improvement ( 1 patient being in complete remission at 7 years ) ; in 3 of 11 improvement was transient . an emg index of disease severity ( compound muscle action potential amplitude in abductor digiti minimi ) was significantly increased at final follow-up ( p less than 0.01 ; n = 11 ) . a pretreatment amplitude greater than 3.0 mv was a good prognostic sign . we conclude that a combined treatment approach in scc-lems usually results in neurologic improvement . 
effect of plasmapheresis on serum and csf autoantibody levels in cns paraneoplastic syndromes . we compared the effect of plasmapheresis on antineuronal autoantibody titers in the serum and csf of 3 patients with cns paraneoplastic syndromes . plasmapheresis reduced the serum autoantibody titer to 20 % of the initial levels in the 3 patients , but the csf autoantibody titer decreased only in the patient with severe damage of the blood-brain barrier . 
intraoperative radioimmunodetection of ovarian cancer using monoclonal antibody b72 .3 and a portable gamma-detecting probe . to assess the value of radioimmunoguided surgery in the intraoperative detection of ovarian cancer , we used monoclonal antibody b72 .3 , radiolabeled with 125i , and a hand-held gamma-detecting probe in 13 women with ovarian cancer undergoing exploratory laparotomy . b72 .3 , which recognizes a tumor-associated glycoprotein , tag 72 , was injected 12-29 days preoperatively ( intraperitoneally in four cases , intravenously in nine , and by both routes in one ) . intraoperatively , the abdomen was surveyed with the probe and probe counts were correlated with biopsies and excised specimens studied by routine histologic stains . probe counts were positive in four of seven evaluable patients with histologically confirmed disease . in three of these four patients , the probe detected cancer in specimens interpreted as normal on frozen histologic sections . the probe also identified microscopic cancer in the one patient who had no gross disease . the specificity of the probe was 70 % . preoperative computed tomography was normal in all patients , including those with tumors as large as 3 cm . this pilot study shows the ability of radioimmunoguided surgery to detect occult ovarian cancer . 
computed tomography-guided fine-needle aspiration of retroperitoneal lymph nodes in gynecologic oncology . computed tomography-guided fine-needle aspiration was performed on 30 retroperitoneal lymph nodes in 29 patients with gynecologic cancer . there were no serious complications . review of the cytologic material demonstrated malignant cells in 83 % of the aspirates . because the predictive value of a positive aspirate approaches 100 % , therapy for metastatic disease can be initiated in these patients with the need for an open biopsy . among five aspirates in which malignant cells were not seen , the cellularity of the specimen appeared to be the critical factor determining the predictive value of the aspirate . whereas neither of two patients with negative aspirates of adequate cellularity has developed recurrent disease , two of three patients with hypocellular negative aspirates have . because a hypocellular negative aspirate from a retroperitoneal lymph node may not be a true reflection of disease status , either repeat aspiration or open biopsy is advisable . 
prognostic factors for outcome of and survival after second-look laparotomy in patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma . in ovarian cancer stages iib-iv , pre-treatment variables and variables obtained intraoperatively at second-look laparotomy were investigated for their prognostic influence on the outcome of 109 patients and survival after second-look laparotomy in 131 patients . the subjects came from a randomized trial of sequential versus alternating combination chemotherapy . the overall median survival after second-look laparotomy was 62 months . logistic regression analysis identified stage and hysterectomy plus bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and omentectomy as significant prognostic covariates for second-look laparotomy outcome . based on a cox multivariate stepwise analysis , independent prognostic factors for survival after second-look laparotomy were secondary residual tumor size , pre-treatment histologic differentiation grade , and performance status . a high differentiation grade and a good performance status at the start of therapy thus still had a prolonging effect on survival after second-look laparotomy . the prognostic power of these pre-treatment variables was increased substantially by the addition of the secondary residual tumor size variable . the 3-year survival rate after second-look laparotomy for high - and low-risk patients was 15 and 87 % , respectively . second-look laparotomy thus provides prognostic information in patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma , but the benefit in terms of survival is still unclear . 
ovarian metastases are rare in stage i adenocarcinoma of the cervix . over a 32-year period at the university of california , los angeles medical center , all cases of adenocarcinoma and adenosquamous carcinoma of the uterine cervix were reviewed to determine the incidence of ovarian metastases in stage i disease . one of 25 patients ( 4.0 % ) who underwent an exploratory laparotomy and radical hysterectomy had a microscopic ovarian metastasis . a literature review identified nine additional patients who had ovarian metastases and stage i adenocarcinoma of the cervix . including our series , the overall reported rate of ovarian metastases is 1.8 % . all ten patients had at least one of the following additional characteristics : they were postmenopausal , they had adnexal pathology , or they had positive pelvic lymph nodes . thus , ovarian preservation is warranted in premenopausal patients who do not have ovarian pathology or evidence of other metastatic disease at surgery . bilateral oophorectomy may be performed if frozen-section examination of enlarged or suspicious nodes documents metastases . if the ovaries are left in the pelvis at the completion of the surgical procedure and microscopic spread to other pelvic tissues is documented , pelvic irradiation can be administered . 
the fallacy of the screening interval for cervical smears . one hundred seventy-four women with invasive cervical carcinoma were interviewed about their cervical smear histories to assess the accuracy of self-reporting and to relate the smear history with patient and tumor characteristics . patients reported significantly more frequent , more recent , and more normal smears than were documented in medical records . the interval between onset of cancer symptoms and previous smear correlated directly with advanced stage . sixteen women with normal smears within 36 months had significantly more advanced cancers than did 25 women with recent abnormal smears . women with recent normal and abnormal smears had similar sociodemographic and behavioral characteristics . because of inaccuracies in patients ' self-reported smear histories and cancers developing in women with recent normal smears , we conclude that a specific screening interval should not be relied upon . 
cold-knife and laser conization for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia . in a 5-year study , 425 women had conization performed for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia ( cin ) i , ii or iii . conization was performed only in cases of positive endocervical curettage or when colposcopy was inconclusive . in all other cases , local destruction was the operation of choice . in the early years of the study , conization was done by the cold-knife method ( n = 201 ) , whereas co2 laser was used in the latter part of the study ( n = 224 ) . success and complication rates were the same for the two methods . abnormal cytology after conization was found in a total of 53 cases ( 12.5 % ) , but a histologic confirmation of residual or recurrent cin was made in only 27 women ( 6.4 % ) . this corresponds to a success rate of 92 % after cold-knife and 95 % after laser conization . the cin grading of the residual or recurrent cin was similar to or less than the cin diagnosis of the cone . because our success rate was comparable to that of other series with much less strict referral criteria , our policy seems adequate . 
primary invasive carcinoma of the vagina . a retrospective review was conducted of 53 women with invasive carcinoma of the vagina and without documented exposure to diethylstilbestrol who were seen at the university of california irvine medical center , long beach memorial medical center , and saddleback memorial medical center from 1976-1988 . forty-seven ( 89 % ) had squamous cell carcinoma and six ( 11 % ) adenocarcinoma . thirty-seven ( 70 % ) were treated with whole-pelvis irradiation and brachytherapy , nine with surgery alone , and the other seven with a combination of treatments . the crude and corrected 2-year survival rates for the entire group were 47 and 69 % , respectively . those with previous pelvic surgery were more likely to develop serious treatment-related complications . there was a statistically significant correlation between previous hysterectomy and the diagnosis of primary invasive carcinoma of the vagina after the onset of symptoms . women diagnosed during routine examination , before symptom onset , tended to have a survival advantage . all women , including those who have had hysterectomy , should be counseled to continue gynecologic cancer surveillance regardless of age . 
does the treatment of genital condylomata in men decrease the treatment failure rate of cervical dysplasia in the female sexual partner ? three hundred ninety women treated for cervical dysplasia by local tissue ablation were studied retrospectively to test the hypothesis that the treatment failure rate is lower if the male sexual partner is also treated . in 190 cases , the male sexual partner was examined and treated successfully for genital condylomata . controls were 200 women treated during the same time period and closely matched to the study group regarding age , race , socioeconomic status , histologic grade of dysplasia , distribution of the lesions , and methods of therapy , but the male partner was neither examined nor treated . the treatment failure rate for women whose partners were also treated was not significantly different from that for women whose partners were not treated ( 6.8 versus 7.5 % ; p greater than .05 ) , suggesting that treating genital condylomata in men does not affect the failure rate of cervical dysplasia in female sexual partners . 
carbon dioxide laser vaporization of diaphragmatic metastases for cytoreduction of ovarian epithelial cancer . three patients with international federation of gynecology and obstetrics state iiic ovarian adenocarcinoma underwent co2 laser vaporization of large-volume ( 5-6 cm ) and miliary right hemidiaphragmatic metastases at the conclusion of standard debulking surgery to effect optimal cytoreduction . destruction of diaphragmatic metastases was accomplished rapidly with no added morbidity or blood loss . the hand-held co2 laser is a useful modality for removal of isolated large - and small-volume diaphragmatic disease , particularly if only the peritoneum is involved , and avoids the morbidity that may accompany entry into the pleural space . 
removal of large symptomatic intrauterine growths by the hysteroscopic resectoscope . fifty-three patients underwent 55 procedures with a resectoscope for the removal of large symptomatic intrauterine growths . the presenting complaint was menorrhagia , menometrorrhagia , or heavy postmenopausal bleeding in 38 patients ; excessive menses plus infertility in 13 patients ; and infertility alone in two patients . forty-three patients had pedunculated or sessile submucous myomas and ten patients had large endometrial polyps . the long-term results are based on 45 patients followed for longer than 1 year . excessive bleeding was controlled in 40 of the 43 women ( 93 % ) . failure to control abnormal bleeding was apparent within the first year . seven of the 12 infertility patients ( 58 % ) delivered live-born infants . five patients have undergone subsequent hysterectomies ( 9 % ) . two patients had repeat resectoscopic removal of myomas and two had subsequent non-resectoscope myomectomies . no major complications were encountered . 
colposcopic survey of papanicolaou test-negative cases with hyperkeratosis or parakeratosis . a colposcopic survey was performed in 269 consecutive women with negative cytology showing hyperkeratosis or parakeratosis . a colposcopy-guided biopsy specimen of cervical abnormalities was taken in 88 cases , and human papillomavirus infection ( hpv ) was detected histologically in 25 cases . no cervical intraepithelial neoplasia ( cin ) was detected . the detection rate of hpv was not significantly different from that observed in a consecutive series of 1073 papanicolaou test-negative subjects self-referred for colposcopy . colposcopic screening of subjects showing hyperkeratosis or parakeratosis with otherwise negative smears is not recommended because it does not allow detection of cytologically false-negative cin . 
detection , prevalence , and prognosis of asymptomatic carcinoma of the cervix . between 1979-1986 , 82 of 407 patients ( 20 % ) treated for infiltrative carcinoma of the cervix were asymptomatic at the time of diagnosis . sixteen ( 20 % ) of these 82 patients had stage ia , 60 ( 73 % ) had stage ib , and six ( 7 % ) had stage iia disease . asymptomatic patients represented 16 of 23 ( 70 % ) of stage ia , 60 of 196 ( 31 % ) of stage ib , and six of 77 ( 8 % ) of stage iia . in the netherlands , population screening for cervical carcinoma is conducted on women aged 35-55 years . to examine the prevalence of asymptomatic cervical carcinoma and the way in which it was detected in different age groups , we studied the patients referred to our department . among the patients younger than 35 years with cervical carcinoma , 20 of 70 ( 29 % ) were asymptomatic with disease detected by incidental screening , whereas eight of 177 ( 5 % ) in the group 55 years or older had been detected by incidental screening . in the age category 35-55 years , 54 of 160 ( 34 % ) were asymptomatic . patients aged 35-55 years had undergone population screening or incidental screening . in the patients 55 years or older , asymptomatic disease was significantly less prevalent than in younger patients . only one of the 66 asymptomatic patients in stage ib or higher suffered tumor recurrence . among symptomatic patients , 25 of 136 ( 18 % ) with stage ib and 17 of 71 ( 24 % ) with stage iia had tumor recurrence . despite the favorable prognosis of patients with asymptomatic carcinoma , asymptomatic presentation could not be shown to be a significant prognostic factor , as were tumor diameter and lymph node status . 
window operation : an alternative treatment method for bartholin gland cysts and abscesses recently , we developed the " window operation " as a more effective way to treat bartholin gland cysts and abscesses . the window operation was used to treat 25 bartholin cysts and 22 bartholin abscesses during a 3-year period from october 1 , 1986 to september 30 , 1989 . under local anesthesia , a small piece of skin including the cyst wall was excised in an oval shape , and suturing was performed along the excised margin . postoperative antibiotics were given in cases of acute inflammation . a new mucocutaneous junction was observed at the 4-week postoperative checkup . no complications or recurrences have been observed during the study period . the window operation can be an alternative method of treatment for bartholin gland cysts or abscesses . 
vaginal mullerian cyst presenting as an anterior enterocele : a case report . a case is discussed of an extremely large vaginal mullerian cyst that presented as an anterior enterocele . sonographic and radiologic studies are described . the patient underwent operative excision of the cyst with reconstructive vaginoplasty . 
contemporary management of a potentially lethal fetal anomaly : a successful perinatal approach to epignathus . prenatal diagnosis of epignathus ( a teratoma originating in the oropharynx ) has been reported previously . however , in many of these cases the neonates succumbed to acute respiratory distress secondary to airway obstruction at the time of birth . we describe a case of antepartum diagnosis of epignathus using ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging as complementary techniques . the ability to accurately define the fetal anomaly permitted us to plan a unique strategy for peripartum management . after cesarean delivery of the infant from the uterus , the umbilical cord was not clamped and the fetoplacental circulation was left undisturbed . a tracheostomy was then performed , after which the umbilical cord was clamped and the infant was stabilized . several hours later , a debulking procedure was performed in the operating room to remove the tumor from its attachment to the bony palate . both mother and infant did well postoperatively . the ability to plan and perform a controlled tracheostomy while the infant remained oxygenated and ventilated proved to be lifesaving in this case . 
diabetes insipidus associated with craniopharyngioma in pregnancy . a case is presented of a pregnancy complicated by a suprasellar mass diagnosed at 27 weeks ' gestation . this patient developed diabetes insipidus , which was successfully treated with 1-desamino-8-d-arginine vasopressin . thyrotropin-releasing hormone and acth stimulation tests were also abnormal , requiring the institution of thyroid and cortisol replacement therapy . the patient was delivered at 34 weeks ' gestation secondary to worsening visual field testing . a craniotomy was performed in the postpartum period with removal of a craniopharyngioma . with successful medical treatment and careful observation , surgical intervention may be postponed until postpartum or until a gestational age with lower neonatal morbidity and mortality is reached . 
capillary hemangioma of the maxilla . a report of two cases in which angiography and embolization were used . this article presents two clinical cases of capillary hemangiomas of the maxilla . such lesions are rare , as demonstrated by the review of the literature included in this article . the presentation , differential diagnosis , histopathology , management , and follow-up for each case are discussed . our rationale for approaching these types of lesions , as well as our opinion that microembolization should be considered as a first line approach to treatment , is presented . 
oral squamous cell carcinoma arising in a patient with long-standing lichen planus . a case report . the risk of malignant transformation of oral lichen planus remains a controversial point . many previous reports have been discounted on the basis of inadequate information or lack of histologic confirmation of lichen planus . we report a well-documented case of long-standing cutaneous and oral lichen planus in which squamous cell carcinoma of the dorsal portion of the tongue occurred . there is an apparent difference in the sites of oral carcinomas in patients with lichen planus compared with the general population . this suggests that lichen planus increases the risk of oral cancer in affected sites . 
contiguous enlarged dental follicles with histologic features resembling the who type of odontogenic fibroma defective odontogenesis and/or retarded eruption of teeth can be associated with histologic features akin to odontogenic fibroma in the dental follicles . unerupted mandibular premolar and molar teeth of a 24-year-old man were surgically exposed , yet the teeth failed to erupt . about a year and a half later , radiographs indicated further enlargement of the follicle of the premolar , and both teeth were subsequently surgically removed . histologically , the follicles were composed of mature collagenous tissue among which epithelial islands and numerous clusters of calcified bodies were present . indirect immunofluorescence showed positive staining for type i and type iii collagen , which exhibited a sparse distribution , but not for the aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen . the hamartomatous nature of the lesions is discussed with emphasis on their histologic resemblance to the who type of odontogenic fibroma . 
a dentist 's dilemma : nonsurgical endodontic therapy or periapical surgery for teeth with apparent pulpal pathosis and an associated periapical radiolucent lesion . first presented is a brief review of nonsurgical versus surgical treatment of radicular cysts . this is followed by a consideration of the use of radiographs for differential diagnosis of periapical radiolucent lesions . some of the nonendodontic local and systemic lesions that can occur periapically are then presented . next examined are the fallibilities of pulp vitality testing methods . the need for histopathologic examination of periapical lesions is the subject of the next discussion . the dentist 's dilemma is then examined : should teeth with apparent pulpal pathosis and an associated periapical radiolucent lesion have routine surgical treatment including biopsy or should they be treated nonsurgically and have periodic follow-ups ? a possible resolution of this dilemma is the final consideration . 
interferon activation of latent natural killer cells and alteration in kinetics of target cell lysis : clinical implications for oral precancerous lesions . reduced natural killer cell activity was observed in patients with oral leukoplakia and submucous fibrosis compared with normal control subjects . however , the number of target binding lymphocytes was found to be normal in these precancers . treatment of effector cells with interferon-alpha resulted in highly elevated active killer cell activity , although no change was observed in target binding lymphocyte counts . this finding could imply that precytotoxic cells that are activated by interferon exist in peripheral blood or that direct recruitment of a new cell population takes place . in addition , altered target lysis kinetics was observed , with interferon-activated killer cells demonstrating a tremendous lytic activation that is completed so quickly that a statistical kinetic analysis could not be accurately done . because natural killer cell activity is an important effector system in immunosurveillance against tumors , its modulation with interferon may be an exciting clinical possibility in the control of malignant transformation or oral precancers . 
tyrosine-rich crystalloids in a polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma . a polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma with tyrosine-rich crystalloid deposits is reported . the literature is reviewed , and diagnostic and histogenetic implications of this finding are discussed . 
periapical lesions of mandibular bone : difficulties in early diagnostics . it is often difficult to establish a correct diagnosis on the basis of initial clinical and roentgenologic symptoms in mandibular bone disease . in this paper these problems are discussed , and some suggestions are made to overcome them . the discussion is based on cases of osteogenic sarcoma , histiocytic lymphoma , and chronic osteomyelitis . the patients were a boy and two middle-aged women , all of them with primary clinical symptoms of pain and swelling , diffuse roentgenologic changes in mandibular bone , uncertain response to treatment , and an unusual progress of the disease . 
preventing cervical cancer by treating genital warts in men . why male sex partners need androscopy . the increased incidence of cancer of the genitourinary and anorectal areas has been directly related to the coexistence of genital human papillomavirus infection . the diagnosis and treatment of condyloma acuminatum in men is important not only to prevent cancer but also to decrease the reservoir of virus that is being transferred to women . screening with androscopy ( examination of male genitals with a colposcope after a vinegar solution has been applied to the skin ) is indicated for all men who are at risk for this infection . treatment options include chemical application , cryosurgery , laser therapy , and interferon injections . to be effective , treatment must include both sexual partners . 
clinical recognition and evaluation of peptic ulcer disease . when a patient has epigastric pain that worsens 1 to 3 hours after meals , the possibility of peptic ulcer disease should be considered . completely typical clinical presentations in patients younger than age 50 justify empirical therapy when no physical or laboratory findings suggest a mimicking disorder . esophagogastroduodenoscopy should be undertaken when response to therapy is incomplete , symptoms recur quickly , or dyspeptic symptoms present for the first time in a patient older than age 50 . when gastric ulcers are diagnosed radiographically , endoscopy and biopsy at multiple sites should be done to exclude malignant disease . intractable duodenal ulcers may necessitate endoscopic biopsy of antral and duodenal mucosa to rule out an associated helicobacter pylori infection , which may modify therapeutic approaches . zollinger-ellison syndrome is rare but should be suspected when ulcer disease presents atypically or aggressively or in families . diagnosis is not difficult to confirm . 
new findings in treatment of colon cancer . patients with colon cancer involving regional lymph nodes ( stage c disease ) have a 5-year survival rate of only 30 % to 40 % , and the majority die of recurrent disease . recent trials have shown increased survival rates with postoperative use of fluorouracil plus levamisole . the authors discuss these findings and the implications on treatment recommendations for stage c colon cancer . 
cloning of the cdna for human 12-lipoxygenase . a full-length cdna clone encoding 12-lipoxygenase ( arachidonate : oxygen 12-oxidoreductase , ec 1.13.11.31 ) was isolated from a human platelet cdna library by using a cdna for human reticulocyte 15-lipoxygenase as probe for the initial screening . the cdna had an open reading frame encoding 662 amino acid residues with a calculated molecular weight of 75,590 . three independent clones revealed minor heterogeneities in their dna sequences . thus , in three positions of the deduced amino acid sequence , there is a choice between two different amino acids . the deduced sequence from the clone plt3 showed 65 % identity with human reticulocyte 15-lipoxygenase and 42 % identity with human leukocyte 5-lipoxygenase . the 12-lipoxygenase cdna recognized a 3.0-kilobase mrna species in platelets and human erythroleukemia cells ( hel cells ) . phorbol 12-tetradecanoyl 13-acetate induced megakaryocytic differentiation of hel cells and 12-lipoxygenase activity and increased mrna for 12-lipoxygenase . the identity of the cloned 12-lipoxygenase was assured by expression in a mammalian cell line ( cos cells ) . human platelet 12-lipoxygenase has been difficult to purify to homogeneity . the cloning of this cdna will increase the possibilities to elucidate the structure and function of this enzyme . 
p53 mutations in colorectal cancer . immunohistological staining of primary colorectal carcinomas with antibodies specific to p53 demonstrated gross overexpression of the protein in approximately 50 % of the malignant tumors examined . benign adenomas were all negative for p53 overexpression . to determine the molecular basis for this overexpression we examined p53 protein expression in 10 colorectal cancer cell lines . six of the cell lines expressed high levels of p53 in elisa , cell-staining , and immunoprecipitation studies . direct sequencing and chemical-mismatch-cleavage analysis of p53 cdna by using the polymerase chain reaction in these cell lines showed that all cell lines that expressed high levels of p53 were synthesizing mrnas that encoded mutant p53 proteins . in two of those four cell lines where p53 expression was lower , point mutations were still detected . thus , we conclude that overexpression of p53 is synonymous with mutation , but some mutations would not be detected by a simple immunohistochemical analysis . mutation of the p53 gene is one of the commonest genetic changes in the development of human colorectal cancer . 
transforming growth factor beta stimulates mammary adenocarcinoma cell invasion and metastatic potential . the experimental metastatic potential of 13762nf mammary adenocarcinoma clone mtln3 was tested after pretreatment in serum-free medium containing transforming growth factor ( tgf ) beta 1 at 0-5000 pg/ml . lung colonies were measured 2 weeks after inoculation in syngeneic f344 rats , and a bell-shaped dose-response curve with 2 - to 3-fold increase in number of surface lung metastases was seen . maximal enhancement occurred at the 50 pg/ml dose level . the effect was specific because addition of neutralizing anti-tgf-beta antibody blocked the stimulatory activity at all levels of tgf-beta 1 pretreatment , but when antibody was given alone , neutralizing anti-tgf-beta antibody had no effect on untreated cells . increased metastatic potential appears to be from an increased propensity of cells to extravasate as tested in the membrane invasion culture system . mtln3 cells penetrated reconstituted basement-membrane barriers 2 - to 3.5-fold more than did untreated control cells , depending upon length of tgf-beta 1 exposure . increased invasive potential is apparently due , in part , to a 2 - to 6-fold increase in type iv collagenolytic ( gelatinolytic ) and a 2.4-fold increase in heparanase activity . tgf-beta 1 treatment of mtln3 cells did not alter their growth rate or morphology in the presence of serum ; however , growth was inhibited in serum-free medium . likewise , adhesion to human umbilical vein endothelial cell monolayers or to immobilized reconstituted basement membrane or fibronectin matrices was unchanged . these results suggest that tgf-beta 1 may modulate metastatic potential of mammary tumor cells by controlling their ability to break down and penetrate basement-membrane barriers . 
loss of heterozygosity on chromosomes 17 and 18 in breast carcinoma : two additional regions identified . the loss of heterozygosity ( loh ) at specific regions of the human genome in tumor dna is recognized as evidence for a tumor-suppressor gene located within the corresponding region of the homologous chromosome . restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of a panel of primary human breast tumor dnas has led to the identification of two additional regions on chromosomes 17q and 18q that frequently are affected by loh . deletions of each of these regions have a significant correlation with clinical parameters that are associated with aggressive breast carcinomas . previous restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of this panel of tumors has uncovered several other frequently occurring mutations . loh on chromosome 18q frequently occurs in tumors with concomitant loh of loci on chromosomes 17p and 11p . similarly , tumors having loh on 17q also have loh on chromosomes 1p and 3p . this suggests that certain combinations of mutations may collaborate in the development and malignant progression of breast carcinomas . 
chemical carcinogenesis : too many rodent carcinogens . the administration of chemicals at the maximum tolerated dose ( mtd ) in standard animal cancer tests is postulated to increase cell division ( mitogenesis ) , which in turn increases rates of mutagenesis and thus carcinogenesis . the animal data are consistent with this mechanism , because a high proportion -- about half -- of all chemicals tested ( whether natural or synthetic ) are indeed rodent carcinogens . we conclude that at the low doses of most human exposures , where cell killing does not occur , the hazards to humans of rodent carcinogens may be much lower than is commonly assumed . 
long-term survival after chest-wall reconstruction with musculocutaneous flaps . reconstruction of chest-wall defects with musculocutaneous flaps permits resection of advanced chest-wall tumors and of tissues severely damaged by radiotherapy in patients who in a previous era were not surgically treatable . to determine the long-term outcome from this surgery , the records of 96 patients who had undergone chest-wall resection with musculocutaneous flap reconstruction were reviewed . median survival for the entire group was 20.5 months , but a more accurate prediction of outcome could be obtained by dividing the patients into three groups . in group i , patients free of known malignancy and undergoing resection of radionecrotic tissues , median survival was 60.0 months . in group ii , patients with resectable disease and free of tumor following surgery , median survival was 31.1 months . in group iii , patients incompletely resected or known to have metastatic disease following surgery , median survival was only 12.5 months . even in group iii , however , some individuals achieved prolonged survival and lasting benefits from the surgery , so these data should not be used to exclude patients from undergoing necessary palliative procedures . 
a clinicopathological study of the paraneoplastic neuromuscular syndromes associated with lung cancer . the highest incidence of remote neuromuscular disorders in cancer has previously been reported in lung carcinoma . the clinical incidence of neuromuscular disorder was estimated and correlated with muscle histology and the histological type of lung tumour in 100 patients with lung carcinoma who were studied prospectively . thirty-five patients had small cell carcinoma and 65 patients non-small cell lung cancer . clinically , 33 patients had a polymyopathy , of whom 18 had a cachectic myopathy and 15 had a proximal myopathy ( two patients had lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome , one presented with dermatomyositis and one had evidence of ectopic acth production ) . cachexia was more common in non-small cell cancer ; proximal myopathy was more common in small cell cancer . ninety-nine patients had abnormal muscle histology ; 74 had type ii atrophy , 12 had type i and ii atrophy , one had type i atrophy and 12 had necrosis . the majority of patients were affected sub-clinically and the clinical entities of cachectic and proximal myopathy did not correspond to previous pathological classifications . atrophy was not related to the duration of tumour symptoms , ageing , clinical type of myopathy or histological type of lung tumour , and was statistically different from that seen in controls . qualitatively , the presence of weight loss , muscle wasting and metastatic disease were not factors in the development of atrophy . similarly , necrosis was not related to the type of lung tumour , the presence of metastases , ageing , weight loss , muscle wasting , duration of tumour symptoms or the clinical form of myopathy . this study demonstrates that lung carcinoma has a direct effect on the motor unit , including atrophy , a necrobiotic myopathy and lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome . clinical assessment does not accurately assess the ' remote ' neuromuscular effects of cancer on the motor unit . 
oral findings in hiv-infected patients attending a department of internal medicine : the contribution of intraoral examination towards the clinical management of hiv disease the occurrence of oral mucosal lesions was studied in 70 consecutive human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - infected patients , including 35 patients with aids , who had been admitted to a department of internal medicine . lesions of the oral mucosa were observed in 52 patients ( 74 per cent ) . oral candidiasis ( 50 per cent ) , hairy leukoplakia ( 14 per cent ) , periodontal disease ( 13 per cent ) , and oral kaposi 's sarcoma ( 4 per cent ) were the most common lesions . oral mucosal lesions suggestive of hiv infection were present in ten of 12 patients of unknown hiv status in whom pneumocystis carinii pneumonia was suspected . close cooperation between the medical and dental professions is recommended since accurate intraoral examination can make a valuable contribution towards the clinical management of hiv-infected patients and may influence the cdc classification of this disease . 
a predominantly adrenaline-secreting phaeochromocytoma . a 61-year-old woman who presented with diabetes , nausea , weight loss and sweating was found to have a phaeochromocytoma secreting adrenaline , with a small amount of n-methyladrenaline . there was no significant increase in noradrenaline secretion . she was normotensive , and developed profound hypotension in response to the alpha-adrenergic antagonist phenoxybenzamine . these features are unusual in phaeochromocytoma , but similar features occurred in the very few previous reported cases of pure adrenaline-secreting phaeochromocytoma . we conclude that it is important to identify such patients , so that they should not be given alpha-adrenergic antagonist drugs . 
cervical lymph node metastasis : assessment of radiologic criteria . to estimate the accuracy of different radiologic criteria used to detect cervical lymph node metastasis in patients with head and neck carcinoma , seven different characteristics of 2,719 lymph nodes in 71 neck dissection specimens from 55 patients were assessed . three lymph node diameters , their location , their number , the presence of a tumor , and the amount of necrosis and fatty metaplasia were recorded . the minimal diameter in the axial plane was found to be the most accurate size criterion for predicting lymph node metastasis . a minimal axial diameter of 10 mm was determined to be the most effective size criterion . the size criterion for lymph nodes in the subdigastric region was 1 mm larger ( 11 mm ) . groups of three or more borderline nodes were proved to increase the sensitivity but did not significantly decrease the specificity . radiologically detectable necrosis ( 3 mm or larger ) was found only in tumorous nodes and was present in 74 % of the positive neck dissection specimens . shape was not a valuable criterion for the radiologic assessment of the cervical lymph node status . 
normal pituitary gland : coronal mr imaging of infundibular tilt . to determine the prevalence of pituitary infundibular deviation or tilt as a normal variant , coronal magnetic resonance ( mr ) images of 50 patients who had been examined for reasons other than pituitary disease were evaluated retrospectively . forty-six percent of the patients had a more or less pronounced tilt of the pituitary stalk . this tilt was due to developmental lateral eccentricity of the pituitary gland in relationship to the midline of the brain in 34 % and to ontogenic eccentric insertion of the pituitary infundibulum off the midline of the gland in the other 12 % . this high frequency of stalk deviation in patients without pituitary disease suggests that such displacement by itself should not be used to support the presence of pituitary microadenoma on mr images or computed tomograms . 
gd-hp-do3a in clinical mr imaging of the brain . as part of a phase ii clinical trial , 14 patients with presumed intracranial neoplastic disease underwent magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging before and after intravenous injection of gadolinium 1,4,7-tris ( carboxymethyl ) -10 - ( 2 ' - hydroxypropyl ) -1,4,7,10 - tetraazacycl ododecane ( hp-do3a ) . this neutral ( nonionic ) gadolinium chelate has lower osmolality , when formulated at equimolar concentrations , and superior in vitro stability compared with gadopentetate dimeglumine . the safety profile of gd-hp-do3a permitted administration of doses up to 0.3 mmol/kg , three times the dose of gadopentetate dimeglumine approved by the u.s. food and drug administration . in this limited clinical trial , gd-hp-do3a proved to be a safe and efficacious agent in mr imaging of the head . the only change documented in patient monitoring was that of slight skin redness at the injection site immediately after administration in two patients . no statistically significant changes due to administration of the agent were noted in laboratory evaluations . these results differ from those obtained with gadopentetate , which induces a transient rise in serum iron and bilirubin levels in up to 26 % of patients . administration of higher doses of gd-hp-do3a , either 0.2 or 0.3 mmol/kg , appeared to provide improved enhancement . no decrease in efficacy at these high doses was noted . 
temporal bone : three-dimensional ct . part ii . pathologic alterations . three-dimensional ( 3d ) surface renderings were obtained from routine axial computed tomographic ( ct ) images in 15 patients with a variety of complex temporal bone abnormalities . the 3d ct reformations served as an adjunct to conventional sectional ct examination . while no diagnosis was substantially changed because of the 3d ct images , they did provide a more global perspective in cases of large tumors and fractures and at the postmastoidectomy site . three-dimensional ct surface reformations are now practical and may be potentially useful for visualizing temporal bone lesions characterized by complex destructive change . 
primary ewing sarcoma : follow-up with ga-67 scintigraphy . while avid accumulation of gallium-67 citrate and technetium-99m methylene diphosphonate ( mdp ) occurs initially in most cases of primary ewing sarcoma , uptake after therapy is less well defined . thirty patients with ewing sarcoma who underwent ga-67 and bone scintigraphy at diagnosis , at completion of therapy , and at relapse from 1978 to 1988 were evaluated . all 30 patients showed less primary site ga-67 activity following therapy . twenty-three of 28 patients who underwent corresponding bone scintigraphy showed less uptake , but residual activity was usually more intense than with ga-67 . avid reaccumulation of ga-67 occurred in four of five patients with primary site relapse , while patients who underwent bone scintigraphy showed less change . it was concluded that a greater decrease in ga-67 than in tc-99m mdp uptake often occurs in patients successfully treated for primary ewing sarcoma . information obtained at ga-67 scintigraphy is most likely to be helpful if results of bone scintigraphy remain abnormal or if occult relapse is suspected . 
vertebral hemangiomas : fat content as a sign of aggressiveness . thirty-two vertebral hemangiomas ( vhs ) were evaluated with nonenhanced computed tomography ( ct ) , t1-weighted magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging , ct enhanced with contrast material , and selective spinal arteriography . the stroma between the osseous trabeculae was found to correspond to either fatty tissue or soft tissue or both . all 11 asymptomatic vhs showed complete fatty stroma at ct and increased signal intensity at mr imaging . in contrast , all four compressive vhs had soft-tissue attenuation at ct . three compressive vhs showed low signal intensity on mr images . predominantly fatty stroma at ct and increased signal intensity at mr imaging were associated with normal or only slightly increased vascularization at selective spinal arteriography or contrast-enhanced ct , while soft-tissue stroma at ct and low signal intensity at mr imaging were associated with distinct hypervascularization . the authors ' experience suggests that fatty vhs may represent inactive forms of vh , while soft-tissue content at ct and low signal intensity at mr imaging may indicate a more active vascular lesion with potential to compress the spinal cord . ct and mr imaging may be especially valuable for evaluating patients with clinical signs or symptoms of uncertain origin and findings compatible with vh at plain radiography . 
prevalence of carcinoma in situ and other histopathological abnormalities in testes from 399 men who died suddenly and unexpectedly . to determine the prevalence of carcinoma in situ of the testis and other testicular histopathological abnormalities in the general male population , we examined gonads from 399 men 18 to 50 years old who died suddenly and unexpectedly . no sign of malignancy was found in any of these gonads . however , 3 of the 399 men had been previously treated for testicular tumor or carcinoma in situ . thus , the over-all prevalence of testicular neoplasia in the population studied was 0.8 % ( 95 % confidence limits 0.2 to 2.2 % ) . this frequency is of the same magnitude as the lifetime risk of testicular cancer in the danish male population . the median weights of the left and right testes were 19.3 and 19.7 gm. , respectively . this difference was statistically significant ( p = 0.00003 ) . thus , our study confirmed that on average the left testis is smaller than the right testis . the median weight of the gonads collected in our study was 0.9 gm . lower than the weight of testes examined 40 years earlier at the same department of forensic medicine . however , this difference was not statistically significant ( p = 0.17 ) . microscopic examination of the gonadal specimens revealed that 83 % of the men exhibited complete spermatogenesis , including late spermatids in all tubules . in the age group studied we found no age-related changes in testicular weight or in the proportion of tubules with degenerative changes , such as spermatogenic arrest , the sertoli-cell-only syndrome or hyalinization . 
application of the monoclonal antibody ki-67 on prostate biopsies to assess the fraction of human prostatic carcinoma . the feasibility of using the monoclonal antibody ki-67 as a proliferation marker in human prostatic carcinoma was studied on aspiration and core biopsy specimens obtained from 50 patients suspected of having prostate cancer . in 32 prostatic adenocarcinomas the ki-67 index varied from 0.3 to 13.3 % ( mean 4.3 ) in cytological smears and from 0.8 to 17.8 % ( mean 5.1 ) in frozen sections from histological core biopsies . no significant correlation between the percentage of cells positive for ki-67 and the histological tumor differentiation could be established . in 18 patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia the ki-67 index varied from 0 to 3.0 % ( mean 1.2 ) and from 0 to 3.8 % ( mean 1.4 ) in cytological and histological material , respectively . the differences in the observed ki-67 index between benign and malignant prostatic tissues are of statistical ( p less than 0.001 ) and of clinical significance . nine patients who underwent endocrine treatment or radiotherapy entered a followup protocol in which the ki-67 staining procedure was applied to periodically obtained cytological aspiration biopsies . during month 1 after the start of therapy a statistically significant ( p less than 0.05 ) decrease in the ki-67 index to 58 % of the initial values was found , while at 2 and 3 months the proliferative fraction showed a further decrease to 27 and 7 % , respectively . as a marker , the monoclonal antibody ki-67 was shown to provide a reliable method to estimate the proliferative cell fraction of human prostate cancer . 
diagnostic accuracy and appropriateness of care for seborrheic keratoses . a pilot study of an approach to quality assurance for cutaneous surgery in 1985 there were more than 40 million visits for ambulatory surgical procedures in the united states . although benign cutaneous lesions are among the most frequent conditions to receive surgical treatment in ambulatory settings , their treatment is seldom subject to peer review . in this pilot study we assessed diagnostic accuracy and appropriateness of care using information available from the surgical pathology laboratory . we assessed these two measures of physician performance for 527 seborrheic keratoses removed by 133 clinicians affiliated with four different institutions . overall , a correct preoperative diagnosis was provided in only 49 % of cases . dermatologists had the highest diagnostic accuracy ( 61 % vs 35 % for all other physicians ) . an appropriate procedure for the actual pathological diagnosis was performed in only 50 % of cases . lesions with a correct preoperative diagnosis were more than eight times more likely to receive appropriate care . our data suggest that many clinicians fail to note a correct diagnosis of common cutaneous lesions before surgical removal , and many patients are treated with procedures that are more invasive than necessary for the final pathological diagnosis . because the approach used in this pilot study relies on data already available , it has promise as a low-cost method of monitoring the quality of care of ambulatory surgery . 
gynecologic cancer in patients with subacute cerebellar degeneration predicted by anti-purkinje cell antibodies and limited in metastatic volume . between 1982 and 1989 , 19 patients with gynecologic carcinoma , paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration , and seropositivity for anti-purkinje cell cytoplasmic antibodies were identified at our institution . seven of the patients had no clinical , computed tomographic , or magnetic resonance imaging evidence of cancer but had undergone laparotomy solely because anti-purkinje cell antibodies were found in their serum ; all had high-grade adenocarcinoma . cerebellar symptoms preceded or coincided with the initial cancer diagnosis in 15 patients and preceded the diagnosis of recurrent cancer in 4 patients . the cancers were 14 ovarian , 2 fallopian tube , 2 surface papillary , and 1 poorly differentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma in a periaortic lymph node . two remarkable surgical observations in patients with high-grade ovarian and tubal cancers were the conspicuous lack of peritoneal implants and the small metastatic volume . a comparison of the 8 patients who had primary stage iii cancer with 24 matched control patients without paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration revealed no difference in primary tumor volume but a significantly smaller volume of metastatic tumor in the seropositive group ( p = 0.05 ) . anti-purkinje cell antibodies were not detected in 111 neurologically normal patients with advanced ovarian cancer . the small metastatic volume in the face of high-grade and advanced stage malignancy in seropositive patients with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration suggests that an immune response to the tumor ( presumably cross-reactive with cerebellar cells ) may impair the metastatic process . earlier diagnosis and treatment of cancer , based on prompt serologic testing , may offer an improved neurologic and oncologic prognosis . 
endorectal ultrasonographic staging of rectal carcinoma . endorectal ultrasonography is a valuable imaging method for examination of the rectum and perirectal tissues . we assessed 50 patients with known rectal carcinoma prospectively by using a 7.0-mhz endorectal transducer to determine the depth of invasion of the rectal wall by tumor and the presence of lymphadenopathy . tumors were staged by using the astler-coller modification of the dukes staging system , and the results were compared with histologic staging of the surgical specimen . ultrasonography had an accuracy of 80 % , a sensitivity of 92 % , and a specificity of 76 % for detection of invasion of the perirectal fat . ultrasonography was sensitive in the detection of perirectal lymphadenopathy but was not specific in distinguishing benign from malignant nodes . 
tumor angiogenesis and metastasis -- correlation in invasive breast carcinoma . background . experimental evidence suggests that the growth of a tumor beyond a certain size requires angiogenesis , which may also permit metastasis . to investigate how tumor angiogenesis correlates with metastases in breast carcinoma , we counted microvessels ( capillaries and venules ) and graded the density of microvessels within the initial invasive carcinomas of 49 patients ( 30 with metastases and 19 without ) . methods . using light microscopy , we highlighted the vessels by staining their endothelial cells immunocytochemically for factor viii . the microvessels were carefully counted ( per 200x field ) , and their density was graded ( 1 to 4 + ) , in the most active areas of neovascularization , without knowledge of the outcome in the patient , the presence or absence of metastases , or any other pertinent variable . results . both microvessel counts and density grades correlated with metastatic disease . the mean ( + / - sd ) count and grade in the patients with metastases were 101 + / - 49.3 and 2.95 + / - 1.00 vessels , respectively . the corresponding values in the patients without metastases were significantly lower -- 45 + / - 21.1 and 1.38 + / - 0.82 ( p = 0.003 and p less than or equal to 0.001 , respectively ) . for each 10-microvessel increase in the count per 200x field , there was a 1.59-fold increase in the risk of metastasis ( 95 percent confidence interval , 1.19 to 2.12 ; p = 0.003 ) . the microvessel count and density grade also correlated with distant metastases . for each 10-microvessel increase in the vessel count per 200x field , there was a 1.17-fold increase in the risk of distant metastasis ( 95 percent confidence interval , 1.02 to 1.34 ; p = 0.029 ) . conclusions . the number of microvessels per 200x field in the areas of most intensive neovascularization in an invasive breast carcinoma may be an independent predictor of metastatic disease either in axillary lymph nodes or at distant sites ( or both ) . assessment of tumor angiogenesis may therefore prove valuable in selecting patients with early breast carcinoma for aggressive therapy . 
an epidemiologic study of abuse of analgesic drugs . effects of phenacetin and salicylate on mortality and cardiovascular morbidity ( 1968 to 1987 ) background . phenacetin abuse is known to produce kidney disease ; salicylate use is supposed to prevent cardiovascular disease . we conducted a prospective , longitudinal epidemiologic study to examine the effects of these drugs on cause-specific mortality and on cardiovascular morbidity . methods . in 1968 we evaluated a study group of 623 healthy women 30 to 49 years old who had evidence of a regular intake of phenacetin , as measured by urinary excretion of its metabolites , and a matched control group of 621 women . salicylate excretion was also measured . all subjects were examined over a period of 20 years . results . life-table analyses of mortality during the 20 years , with adjustment for the year of birth , cigarette smoking , and length of follow-up , revealed significant differences between the groups in overall mortality ( study group vs. control group , 74 vs. 27 deaths ; relative risk , 2.2 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 1.5 to 3.3 ) , deaths due to urologic or renal disease ( relative risk , 16.1 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 3.9 to 66.1 ) , deaths due to cancer ( relative risk , 1.9 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 1.1 to 3.3 ) , and deaths due to cardiovascular disease ( relative risk , 2.9 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 1.5 to 5.5 ) . the relative risk of cardiovascular disease ( fatal or nonfatal myocardial infarction , heart failure , or stroke ) was 1.8 , and the 95 percent confidence interval 1.3 to 2.6 . the odds ratio for the incidence of hypertension was 1.6 , and the 95 percent confidence interval 1.2 to 2.1 . the effects of phenacetin on morbidity and mortality , with adjustment for base-line salicylate excretion , were similar . in contrast , salicylate use had no effect on either mortality or morbidity . conclusions . regular use of analgesic drugs containing phenacetin is associated with an increased risk of hypertension and mortality and morbidity due to cardiovascular disease , as well as an increased risk of mortality due to cancer and urologic or renal disease . the use of salicylates carries no such risk . 
human t-cell leukemia virus type i infection as an oncogenic and prognostic risk factor in cervical and vaginal carcinoma . the seroprevalence of human t-cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-i ) antibody in 6701 healthy females and 226 women with gynecologic malignancies , all living in an adult t-cell leukemia-endemic area in southwestern japan , was investigated to determine whether htlv-i infection was a risk factor influencing oncogenesis and prognosis . the seroprevalences in cervical carcinoma patients younger than 59 years and in vaginal carcinoma patients of all ages were significantly higher than in age-matched healthy controls . the ratios of observed to expected htlv-i seroprevalence in patients younger than 59 with cervical carcinoma and in vaginal carcinoma patients were 2.92 and 7.36 , respectively . among the patients with cervical carcinoma or vaginal carcinoma , the tumor recurrence rate in htlv-i carriers was significantly higher than that in htlv-i seronegative patients . our results suggest that htlv-i infection may be oncogenic and may affect the prognosis in some patients with cervical or vaginal carcinoma . 
flow cytometric analysis of dna content in partial hydatidiform moles with persistent gestational trophoblastic tumor . hydatidiform moles may be classified as partial or complete based on genetic and pathologic criteria . between january 1979 and january 1990 , 17 ( 5.5 % ) of 310 patients followed for partial mole developed persistent gestational trophoblastic tumor . tissues from 14 partial moles were available for flow cytometric analysis of dna content . eleven partial moles ( 85 % ) were triploid , two ( 15 % ) were diploid , and one dna histogram was uninterpretable . all patients with triploid partial moles achieved complete remission with one course of single-agent chemotherapy . the two with diploid partial mole required multiple courses of chemotherapy to achieve gonadotropin remission . although the dna content of most partial moles with persistent gestational trophoblastic tumor was triploid , diploid partial moles with persistent tumor were less sensitive to single-agent chemotherapy . 
appendectomy in primary and secondary staging operations for ovarian malignancy . appendectomy was performed at primary or secondary staging operations in 100 patients with ovarian malignancies . of 80 patients who underwent appendectomy at the time of their primary surgery , 25 ( 31.2 % ) had appendiceal metastases . among 47 patients who were believed to have disease limited to the pelvis at the time of surgery -- stage i ( n = 34 ) , ii ( n = 7 ) , iiia ( n = 5 ) , and those designated stage iiic solely on the basis of microscopic para-aortic nodal metastasis ( n = 1 ) -- the appendix was involved with disease in only two patients ( 4.3 % ) . however , among 33 patients with advanced disease -- stage iiib ( n = 6 ) , iiic except those designated iiic solely on the basis of microscopic paraaortic nodal metastasis ( n = 19 ) , and iv ( n = 8 ) -- the appendix was involved with disease in 23 patients ( 69.7 % ) ( p less than .001 ) . poorly differentiated tumors and serous histologic cell types more frequently metastasized to the appendix ( 64 , 15 , 6 , and 8 % for grades 3 , 2 , and 1 and borderline histology , respectively ; p less than .001 ; and 48 , 13 , and 8 % for serous , endometrioid , and mucinous ; p less than .001 ) . of 20 patients who underwent appendectomy at their secondary staging procedure , two had metastases . metastatic disease in the appendix was microscopic in nine of 27 patients . because the frequency of appendiceal metastasis is similar to that of other metastatic sites in stages i and ii ovarian cancer , it should be removed at primary staging procedures . appendectomy should also be performed in patients with advanced ovarian malignancies if it contributes to cytoreduction or at the time of secondary staging procedures . 
rhabdomyosarcoma of the ciliary body . rhabdomyosarcoma is the most common malignant orbital tumor of childhood . it has twice been reported to arise within the globe from the iris . in addition , teratoid medulloepithelioma , a tumor arising from the ciliary epithelium , can contain a rhabdomyoblastic component , often in combination with other heteroplastic elements . the authors report what may be the first recorded case of an embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma of the ciliary body , possibly representing a one-sided differentiation of a malignant teratoid medulloepithelioma . 
cystic adenoma of the pigmented ciliary epithelium . clinical , pathologic , and immunohistopathologic findings . a 51-year-old white man was found to have a deeply pigmented mass in the ciliary body and peripheral choroid of his right eye with an associated vitreous hemorrhage . although the tumor appeared to be a ciliochoroidal melanoma , a melanocytoma and adenoma of the pigment epithelium also were considered in the differential diagnosis . the tumor was removed by a large partial lamellar sclerocyclochoroidectomy . results of histopathologic evaluation showed a cystic adenoma of the pigmented ciliary epithelium . to the authors ' knowledge , this was the first immunohistopathologic study of this tumor . results of the study showed marked immunoreactivity for low molecular weight cytokeratins , vimentin , and s-100 protein . these immunohistochemical studies are consistent with the origin of this tumor from pigment epithelial cells . 
evaluation of argon laser surgery in children under 13 years of age . argon laser surgery is an effective treatment for ectasias and congenital port-wine stains ; however , its use in children under the age of 13 is controversial . this paper reviews 202 children under the age of 13 who underwent argon laser treatments for congenital port-wine stains , spider angiomas , epidermal nevi , and lentigines . the clinical characteristics of port-wine stains in 170 children are discussed . good to excellent results ( moderate to complete clearing ) in port-wine stains were obtained in 60 percent of patients and seemed to correlate best with lack of blanchability on pressure . hypertrophic scarring was seen in only 7 children , all of whom had undressed wounds ; no significant scarring has been seen in any subsequent child who had maintained a dressed wound postoperatively . 
hepatocellular carcinoma within siderotic regenerative nodules : appearance as a nodule within a nodule on mr images . large regenerative nodules in cirrhotic livers may accumulate iron and develop internal iron-poor foci of hyperplasia or malignancy . magnetic resonance examinations were performed on 23 patients with biopsy-proved cirrhosis . a " nodule-within-nodule " appearance was noted in two patients . this appearance consisted of markedly low intensity of a large nodule on gradient-echo images , with one or two internal foci that were isointense to the liver . each of the large nodules was 2 cm in diameter , and each of the internal foci was less than 1 cm . serum alpha-fetoprotein levels were normal in both patients . aspiration biopsy performed in one patient failed to show malignancy , but histologic confirmation of hepatocellular carcinoma was obtained eventually in both cases . the nodule-within-nodule sign , which reflects the unique histopathology of hepatocellular carcinoma in large siderotic regenerative nodules , is strongly suggestive of early hepatocellular carcinoma , even if serologic markers and biopsy results do not support this diagnosis . 
invasive lobular carcinoma : mammographic findings in a 10-year experience from january 1 , 1976 to december 30 , 1985 , 1,966 cases of breast carcinoma were diagnosed and treated at malmo general hospital , malmo , sweden . of these cases , 185 ( 9.4 % ) involved invasive lobular carcinoma ( ilc ) . mammography in 137 cases demonstrated the following findings : spiculated opacity ( 53 % ) , architectural distortion ( 16 % ) , poorly defined opacity ( 7 % ) , normal or benign findings ( 16 % ) , and parenchymal asymmetry ( 4 % ) . radiographic definition of the ilc lesion varied greatly with projection : the craniocaudal view demonstrated significant findings more frequently than either the oblique or lateral views . secondary radiographic findings were present in 31 % , microcalcifications were rare , and physical findings were present in 89 % . because of its diffuse growth pattern and tendency to form lesions with opacity equal to or less than that of the parenchyma , ilc can be extremely difficult to detect mammographically . therefore , the radiologist must be alert for subtle mammographic signs of malignancy and highly suspicious of any abnormal physical findings regardless of the mammographic appearance . 
mammographic follow-up of low-suspicion lesions : compliance rate and diagnostic yield . all recommendations for mammographic follow-up of low-suspicion lesions seen at mammography during a 6-month period were reviewed to establish compliance rate and eventual outcome . one hundred forty-four of 2,650 mammograms ( 5 % ) showed minimal abnormalities that warranted short-term and periodic mammographic follow-up . rates of compliance at 4 months and at 1 , 2 , and 3 years were 88 % , 71 % , 60 % , and 47 % , respectively . progressive mammographic change was found in 10 patients , only one of whom had a carcinoma . it was concluded that mammographic follow-up of low-suspicion lesions is a reasonable alternative to surgical biopsy , although patient compliance remains a significant problem . 
immediate postoperative mammogram for failed surgical excision of breast lesions in a series of 200 consecutive preoperative needle localizations of non-palpable breast lesions , 128 lesions ( 64 % ) were calcified and 72 lesions ( 36 % ) were noncalcified on preoperative mammograms . radiographs of the surgical specimen failed to confirm excision of 11 lesions ( 5.5 % ) , seven calcified and four noncalcified . these 11 patients were taken directly from the surgical suite to the radiology suite , where an immediate postoperative mammogram was obtained . in five patients ( 2.5 % ) , immediate postoperative mammograms showed surgical failure with the lesion still present . in six patients ( 3.0 % ) , immediate postoperative mammograms showed that the lesion had been removed , even though the lesion had not been identified on surgical-specimen radiographs . no errors occurred in the interpretation of immediate postoperative mammograms , a fact corroborated by examination of surgical specimens obtained at repeat surgery in three patients and identification of skin calcifications in two patients , and with follow-up mammograms in six patients . whenever a discrepancy between preoperative localization radiographs and surgical-specimen radiographs exists , the authors suggest immediate postoperative mammography to improve the diagnostic process . 
data compression : effect on diagnostic accuracy in digital chest radiography . high-resolution digital images make up very large data sets that are relatively slow to transmit and expensive to store . data compression techniques are being developed to address this problem , but significant image deterioration can occur at high compression ratios . in this study , the authors evaluated a form of adaptive block cosine transform coding , a new compression technique that allows considerable compression of digital radiographs with minimal degradation of image quality . to determine the effect of data compression on diagnostic accuracy , observer tests were performed with 60 digitized chest radiographs ( 2,048 x 2,048 matrix , 1,024 shades of gray ) containing subtle examples of pneumothorax , interstitial infiltrate , nodules , and bone lesions . radiographs with no compression , with 25:1 compression , and with 50:1 compression ratios were presented in randomized order to 12 radiologists . the results suggest that , with this compression scheme , compression ratios as high as 25:1 may be acceptable for primary diagnosis in chest radiology . 
biologic aggressiveness of palpable and nonpalpable prostate cancer : assessment with endosonography . the biologic aggressiveness of palpable versus nonpalpable prostate cancer was evaluated in 666 patients studied with endosonography over a 24-month period . biologic aggressiveness was defined by a combined histologic and grade-stage category score . in 314 patients suspected of having prostate cancer 328 biopsies were performed . carcinoma was detected in 99 patients , by means of both palpation and endosonography ( n = 80 ) , endosonography alone ( n = 9 ) , and palpation alone ( n = 8 ) ; two cancers were not detected with either palpation or endosonography . all patients with normal results of digital examination had a combined grade-stage category score lower than 9 . fifty-five of 69 patients ( 80 % ) with abnormal results of digital examination and available histologic data had a histologic score of 6 or higher ; 38 of these patients ( 69 % ) had a combined grade-stage category score of 9 or higher . although the number of patients is small , these data suggest that nonpalpable cancers are biologically less aggressive than palpable ones and that the advantage of endosonography over palpation in detection of clinically significant cancers is limited . 
congenital cystic disease of the seminal vesicle . thirteen cases of congenital seminal vesicle cysts with pathologic correlation were diagnosed between 1970 and 1988 . twelve of the 13 patients had ipsilateral renal anomalies . intravenous urography , performed in 11 of the 13 patients , demonstrated associated renal anomalies . computed tomography , performed in nine of the 13 patients , demonstrated associated renal anomalies and displayed the cystic seminal vesicles . transabdominal or endorectal ultrasonography , performed in eight patients , allowed characterization of the seminal vesicle masses as cystic . magnetic resonance imaging , performed in three of the 13 patients , accurately demonstrated dilated ejaculatory ducts into which ectopic ureters inserted . the fluid in the seminal vesicle cysts had an increased signal intensity on t1 - and t2-weighted sequences . seminal vesiculographic study demonstrated anomalous communications with the seminal tract . cystic disease of the seminal vesicles can be either congenital or acquired ; congenital cysts are associated with anomalies of the ipsilateral mesonephric duct . 
insulinomas : localization with selective intraarterial injection of calcium . to facilitate the noninvasive preoperative localization of islet cell tumors less than 15 mm in diameter , the authors examined the use of calcium as an insulin secretagogue in an arterial stimulation venous sampling ( asvs ) technique . in four patients with episodic hypoglycemia , calcium gluconate ( 0.01-0 .025 meq ca2 + / kg ) was injected directly into branches of the celiac plexus ( gastroduodenal , splenic , and hepatic arteries ) and the superior mesenteric artery . in all patients , serum levels of insulin rose abruptly in blood samples taken from the right hepatic vein 30 and 60 seconds after the infusion of calcium into the artery supplying the tumor ; injection into an artery not supplying the tumor did not result in a similar rise . accurate localization of the insulinomas was verified at surgery in three patients . in the fourth patient , who did not undergo surgery , arteriographic results were positive for insulinoma at the predicted site . on the basis of these results , the authors believe noninvasive asvs may replace invasive portal venous sampling as the most effective method for the localization of occult insulinomas . 
complications of percutaneous abdominal fine-needle biopsy . review . to determine whether the increasing use of percutaneous fine-needle biopsy of abdominal lesions is associated with an increase in serious complications , the author updated a literature search and evaluated a questionnaire ( distributed among selected hospitals in the united states in 1986 and 1987 ) that followed up a questionnaire distributed in 1983 . the updated literature review revealed a total of 24 deaths and 20 needle tract seedings . the updated questionnaire revealed five deaths after 16,381 biopsies ( 0.031 % ) , whereas the previous questionnaire had shown four deaths after 63,108 biopsies ( 0.006 % ) . two similar european questionnaires revealed mortality rates of 0.008 % and 0.018 % , respectively . of the total of 33 deaths , 21 involved biopsies of liver lesions ; six involved pancreatic biopsies . seventeen of the 21 deaths after liver biopsies were secondary to hemorrhage ; five of the six deaths after pancreatic biopsies were due to pancreatitis . of the 23 instances of needle tract seeding , 10 occurred after biopsies of pancreatic malignancies . the frequencies of needle tract seeding in the four questionnaires were 0.005 % , 0.006 % , 0.003 % , and 0.009 % , respectively . although infrequent , serious complications may be associated with this procedure . the author makes suggestions that may help minimize them . 
selective catheterization of the inferior petrosal sinuses : new catheter design . catheters for selective catheterization of the right and left inferior petrosal sinuses have been developed to replace the complex tip-deflector catheter-guide-wire system currently used . the new catheters are easily formed from commonly available straight catheters with the use of steam . they have been successfully tested in 22 patients ; the only complications were minor groin hematomas . 
petrosal sinus sampling : technique and rationale . bilateral simultaneous sampling of the inferior petrosal sinuses is an extremely sensitive , specific , and accurate test for diagnosing cushing disease and distinguishing between that entity and the ectopic acth syndrome . it is also valuable for lateralizing small hormone-producing adenomas within the pituitary gland . the inferior petrosal sinuses connect the cavernous sinuses with the ipsilateral internal jugular veins . the anatomy of the anastomoses between the inferior petrosal sinus , the internal jugular vein , and the venous plexuses at the base of the skull varies , but it is almost always possible to catheterize the inferior petrosal sinus . in addition , variations in size and anatomy are often present between the two inferior petrosal sinuses in a patient . advance preparation is required for petrosal sinus sampling . teamwork is a critical element , and each member of the staff should know what he or she will be doing during the procedure . the samples must be properly labeled , processed , and stored . specific needles , guide wires , and catheters are recommended for this procedure . the procedure is performed with specific attention to the three areas of potential technical difficulty : catheterization of the common femoral veins , crossing the valve at the base of the left internal jugular vein , and selective catheterization of the inferior petrosal sinuses . there are specific methods for dealing with each of these areas . the sine qua non of correct catheter position in the inferior petrosal sinus is demonstration of reflux of contrast material into the ipsilateral cavernous sinus . images must always be obtained to document correct catheter position . special attention must be paid to two points to prevent potential complications : the patient must be given an adequate dose of heparin , and injection of contrast material into the inferior petrosal sinuses and surrounding veins must be done gently and carefully . when the procedure is performed as outlined , both inferior petrosal sinuses can be catheterized in more than 98 % of patients . the complication rate is low , and the theoretical risk of major morbidity or death is less than 1 % ( neither has yet occurred , to our knowledge ) . the most common complication is groin hematoma . 
liver and pancreas : improved spin-echo t1 contrast by shorter echo time and fat suppression at 1.5 t. t1-weighted spin-echo magnetic resonance ( mr ) images have had limited soft-tissue contrast at 1.5 t. the authors investigated the effects of echo-time ( te ) minimization and fat suppression on mr images of the liver and pancreas . two sets of mr images were obtained with identical repetition times and other parameters . in 10 subjects with seven liver lesions , images with tes of 20 and 12 msec were compared . in 18 additional subjects with seven liver lesions and five pancreatic carcinomas , images with identical tes but with and without fat suppression were compared . contrast-to-noise ratios ( cnrs ) were greater with a te of 12 msec than with a te of 20 msec for liver versus spleen ( 7.6 vs 4.9 , p = .014 ) and liver versus lesion ( 6.9 vs 3.9 , p = .031 ) . in patients without fatty liver , cnr for six lesions versus liver was greater ( 9.5 vs 6.0 , p = .014 ) with fat suppression . cnr between glandular pancreas and cancer was most conspicuous with fat suppression , but fat planes were less distinct . minimization of te improves t1-weighted images significantly . fat suppression also improves cnr , but the disadvantages of fat suppression do not allow elimination of conventional t1-weighted images . 
mr imaging of blood-borne liver metastases in mice : contrast enhancement with fe-ehpg . to determine whether iron ( iii ) ethylenebis - ( 2-hydrophenylglycine ) ( fe-ehpg ) , a prototype hepatobiliary magnetic resonance imaging agent , can enhance the liver-to-tumor contrast-to-noise ratio ( c/n ) in models of liver tumors in mice , two types of cell inoculation were used : intrahepatic implantation of m5076 sarcoma and intrasplenic injection of colon tumor ( c-26 ) or m5076 sarcoma . significant enhancement of the liver-to-tumor c/n and/or improved visualization of small lesions was consistently observed on t1-weighted images obtained after injection of the contrast material . for intrahepatic implants , the c/n on postinjection t1-weighted images was superior to that on t1 - and t2-weighted preinjection images . for the c-26 metastatic liver lesions of larger diameter ( greater than 5 mm ) , the c/n on postinjection t1-weighted studies was superior to that on preinjection t1-weighted images but was comparable to that on preinjection t2-weighted images . however , higher c/n after administration of fe-ehpg improved visualization of medium-sized ( 3-5 mm ) and small ( 1-3-mm ) metastatic lesions in both m5076 and c-26 models . these results demonstrate that mr imaging with appropriate hepatobiliary agents appears promising for early detection of liver metastases . 
pancreatic cancer versus chronic pancreatitis : diagnosis with ca 19-9 assessment , us , ct , and ct-guided fine-needle biopsy . the authors prospectively performed serum ca 19-9 assessment , ultrasound ( us ) , computed tomography ( ct ) , and ct-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy ( fnab ) of the pancreas in 81 consecutive patients with suspected chronic pancreatitis or pancreatic neoplasm . the final diagnosis was pancreatic cancer in 54 patients and chronic pancreatitis in 27 patients . ca 19-9 assessment , us , ct , and fnab were considered nondiagnostic , respectively , in 0 % , 25 % , 19 % , and 6 % of cases . when a definite diagnosis was rendered , the positive predictive value was 90 % for ca 19-9 assessment , 95 % for us , 98 % for ct , and 100 % for fnab ; the negative predictive value was , respectively , 69 % , 95 % , 86 % , and 100 % . the accuracy of all diagnostic and nondiagnostic studies was 81 % for ca 19-9 assessment , 72 % for us , 77 % for ct , and 94 % for fnab . it is concluded that ct-guided pancreatic fnab is the most reliable examination for enabling differential diagnosis of pancreatic cancer and chronic pancreatitis . when the pancreas is well visualized at us , the negative predictive value for pancreatic cancer is more accurate than that of ca 19-9 assessment and ct . 
primary bone tumours of the thoracic skeleton : an audit of the leeds regional bone tumour registry . an audit of the leeds regional bone tumour registry found that primary bone tumours of the thoracic skeleton constituted 90 of the 2004 cases ( 4.5 % ) . thirty seven per cent occurred in the ribs , 32 % in the scapulae , 11 % in the thoracic vertebrae , 11 % in the sternum , and 9 % in the clavicles . malignant tumours were more common than benign ( 54 v 36 ) and occurred in an older population ( mean ages 47 and 31 years ) . the scapula was the most common site for malignant lesions and the ribs the most common site for benign tumours . chondrosarcoma was the commonest tumour in older patients , fibrous dysplasia and plasmacytoma in the middle age group , and eosinophilic granuloma in children . presenting symptoms were a poor guide to whether the lesion was malignant or not . this and the small proportion of correct preoperative diagnoses indicate the need for early biopsy . bone tumour registries provide a valuable source of cumulative information about uncommon tumours and facilitate accurate diagnosis , teaching , and research . 
adult respiratory distress syndrome after limited resection of adenocarcinoma of the lung . two cases of the adult respiratory distress syndrome developed after limited resection for lung carcinoma . no other known precipitants were evident . the adult respiratory distress syndrome is a clinical expression of acute lung injury that may arise from various insults and include air and blood borne factors . tumour related blood borne factors may have contributed to lung injury in these cases . 
specific binding sites for insulin-like growth factor i in the ovarian stroma of women with polycystic ovarian disease and stromal hyperthecosis . women with polycystic ovarian disease and hyperthecosis have hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance . it is possible that insulin in supraphysiologic concentration exerts its steroidogenic action on ovarian stromal cells through insulin-like growth factor i receptors . we undertook this study to investigate whether the ovarian stroma of women with hyperthecosis has specific binding sites for insulin or insulin-like growth factor i. ovarian stromal tissue was obtained from seven women with normal ovulatory cycles and from five women with hyperthecosis of the ovaries . binding studies with insulin tagged with iodine 125 and insulin-like growth factor i tagged with iodine 125 revealed specific binding sites both for insulin and insulin-like growth factor i in the ovarian stroma . the binding of insulin tagged with iodine 125 in the ovarian stroma of women with hyperthecosis ( 3.4 % + / - 1.1 % ( + / - se ) per 100 micrograms protein ) was significantly ( p less than 0.04 ) lower than that observed in normal premenopausal women ( 8.3 % + / - 1.6 % per 100 micrograms protein ) . by contrast , the specific binding of insulin-like growth factor i tagged with iodine 125 in the ovarian stroma of women with hyperthecosis ( 7.1 % + / - 1.7 % per 100 micrograms protein ) was higher than that observed in the ovarian stroma from normal women ( 4.5 % + / - 1.7 % per 100 micrograms protein ) , although the difference was not statistically significant . the affinity constants for these high-affinity receptors were similar ( 1.2 to 3.6 x 10 ( 9 ) l/mol ) in the two groups of women . these results indicate that ( 1 ) the ovarian stroma has specific binding sites both for insulin and for insulin-like growth factor i ; ( 2 ) in women with hyperthecosis , the ovarian stroma has decreased binding sites for insulin but has normal concentrations of insulin-like growth factor i receptors ; and ( 3 ) in women with hyperthecosis , stimulation of ovarian androgen synthesis by insulin may be mediated through the insulin-like growth factor i receptors . 
evidence of heterogeneous mechanisms in lipoprotein lipid alterations in hyperandrogenic women . fifty-one hyperandrogenic women had their lipoprotein lipid profiles determined . free and albumin-bound testosterone was associated with triglycerides and with high-density lipoprotein cholesterol independent of fasting insulin levels , percent ideal body weight , and waist/hip ratio . to gain insight into mechanisms of these lipid alterations , the women were subgrouped according to apparent source of androgen excess . whereas all groups had low levels of high-density lipoprotein-2 cholesterol and high triglyceride concentrations , only in those with high luteinizing hormone-to-follicle-stimulating hormone ratios was free and albumin-bound testosterone associated with triglycerides and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol independent of fasting insulin levels . relationships between percent ideal body weight and waist/hip ratios , free and albumin-bound testosterone , sex hormone binding globulin , fasting insulin and 2-hour insulin levels and blood pressure are not significant in all subgroups , suggesting differing endocrinological influences and differing mechanisms for lipoprotein lipid alterations . 
which clinical variables predict an abnormal double-contrast barium enema result ? objective : to determine the relations among patient history , symptoms , objective indicators , and abnormal double-contrast barium enema results in outpatients . patients and setting : seven hundred and ninety-four patients receiving care in a large multispecialty medical group . design : physicians completed a form before ordering a double-contrast barium enema , listing information about patient history , symptoms , and objective findings , including the results of a complete blood count , stool hemoccult , and sigmoidoscopy . measurements and main results : outcome measures were colon cancer and any abnormal finding . the results of 18.6 % of the barium enemas were abnormal . the most frequent positive findings were of polyps ( 8.8 % ) and colon cancer ( 2.9 % ) . over 50 % of the barium enemas were ordered solely on the basis of symptoms , yet there was no statistical correlation between symptoms and colon cancer or any positive finding . using logistic regression , four variables were shown to be significant predictors of colon cancer ( p less than 0.05 ) : abnormal sigmoidoscopy , iron deficiency anemia , positive stool hemoccult results , and relevant history . the respective odds ratios of these variables were 3.76 ( 95 % ci , 2.89 to 4.90 ) ; 2.86 ( ci , 2.13 to 3.74 ) ; 1.87 ( ci , 1.46 to 2.39 ) ; and 1.91 ( ci , 1.44 to 2.52 ) , respectively . in a patient without any of these indicators , the predicted probability of having colon cancer was only 0.7 % . in a patient with at least two objective indicators , the probability of having colon cancer was greater than 15 % . conclusions : symptoms without objective indicators or pertinent risk factors do not correlate with an abnormal double-contrast barium enema result . objective indicators are useful predictors of an abnormal barium enema result , particularly when looking for colon cancer . 
spindle and epithelioid cell nevus ( spitz nevus ) . natural history following biopsy . a clinical follow-up study of 49 cases of spindle and epithelioid cell nevus is presented to address the question about the potential for local recurrence . only 19 ( 39 % ) of the 49 lesions were initially excised en toto , and the remainder ( 30 cases ) had positive margins ; six of the latter spindle and epithelioid cell nevi were reexcised , and no evidence of a residual nevus was found in five of the six cases . there were no recurrences in the 49 patients during an average follow-up period of 5.0 years ( range , 1 to 10 years ) . the rarity of recurrent spindle and epithelioid cell nevus would justify a conservative approach to management , with clinical follow-up alone recommended after a subtotal excision , when the pathologic diagnosis is unequivocal . 
vestibular papillae of the vulva . lack of evidence for human papillomavirus etiology . vestibular papillae of the vulva are usually considered as anatomical variants of the vestibular mucosa . clinically , however , they are quite often interpreted as condylomata acuminata and recent studies have suggested that they could be related to human papillomavirus infection . this prompted us to search for human papillomavirus dna using the southern blot hybridization technique , by analyzing biopsy specimens taken from 29 patients who presented with papillae of the vestibular mucosa . human papillomavirus sequences were detected only in two ( 6.9 % ) cases . by the same technique , human papillomavirus sequences were detected in 24 ( 96 % ) of 25 vulvar warts used as the control specimens . thus , it appears unlikely that vestibular papillae are related to human papillomavirus infection . they are usually distinguishable from condylomata acuminata by clinical examination alone . 
' cystic papilloma ' in humans ? demonstration of human papillomavirus in plantar epidermoid cysts . fourteen cases of plantar epidermoid cyst were studied immunohistochemically and five of them were also studied electron microscopically for the presence of human papillomavirus . in eleven cases , the test results were positive for papillomavirus antigens , and in five of them , papillomaviruslike particles were observed by electron microscopy . histological examination showed most of the cysts to contain intracytoplasmic eosinophilic bodies in cells of the cyst wall as well as the vacuolar structures in the keratinous mass within the cavity . these findings suggest an etiologic association between the papillomavirus and plantar epidermoid cysts . the " cystic papilloma " produced in rabbits by the shope papillomavirus has been clearly demonstrated . we propose that human papillomaviruses play an important role in the genesis of plantar epidermoid cysts . this is the first report on the possible existence of a cystic papilloma in humans . 
regressing atypical histiocytosis . aberrant prothymocyte differentiation , t-cell receptor gene rearrangements , and nodal involvement . two cases of regressing atypical histiocytosis were studied . new findings reported include the presence of cd1 epitope on large atypical histiocytoid cells and apparent early lymph node involvement . because regressing atypical histiocytosis may demonstrate aberrant thymic differentiation antigen expression and t-cell receptor gene rearrangements , initial lymph node involvement , and eventuation in conventional lymphoma in some cases , the alternative term regressing-phase anaplastic lymphoma is proposed as a more accurate designation for this entity . 
unusual skin tumors in langerhans ' cell histiocytosis . a case of langerhans ' cell histiocytosis with unusual skin manifestations in the form of multiple large skin tumors is described . the skin lesions responded partially to chemotherapy with etoposide and prednisone , and residual lesions were excised surgically . the patient developed central diabetes insipidus during treatment . 
occupational sunlight exposure and melanoma in the u.s. navy . melanoma is the second most common cancer , after testicular cancer , in males in the u.s. navy . a wide range of occupations with varying exposures to sunlight and other possible etiologic agents are present in the navy . person-years at risk and cases of malignant melanoma were ascertained using computerized service history and inpatient hospitalization files maintained at the naval health research center . a total of 176 confirmed cases of melanoma were identified in active-duty white male enlisted navy personnel during 1974-1984 . risk of melanoma was determined for individual occupations and for occupations grouped by review of job descriptions into three categories of sunlight exposure : ( 1 ) indoor , ( 2 ) outdoor , or ( 3 ) indoor and outdoor . compared with the u.s. civilian population , personnel in indoor occupations had a higher age-adjusted incidence rate of melanoma , i.e. , 10.6 per 100,000 ( p = .06 ) . persons who worked in occupations that required spending time both indoors and outdoors had the lowest rate , i.e. , 7.0 per 100,000 ( p = .06 ) . incidence rates of melanoma were higher on the trunk than on the more commonly sunlight-exposed head and arms . two single occupations were found to have elevated rates of melanoma : ( 1 ) aircrew survival equipmentman , sir = 6.8 ( p less than .05 ) ; and ( 2 ) engineman , sir = 2.8 ( p less than .05 ) . however , there were no cases of melanoma or no excess risk in occupations with similar job descriptions . findings on the anatomical site of melanoma from this study suggest a protective role for brief , regular exposure to sunlight and fit with recent laboratory studies that have shown vitamin d to suppress growth of malignant melanoma cells in tissue culture . a mechanism is proposed in which vitamin d inhibits previously initiated melanomas from becoming clinically apparent . 
the risk of large bowel cancer after partial gastrectomy for benign ulcer disease . the relative risk ( standardized incidence ratio [ sir ] for colorectal cancer after partial gastrectomy for ulcer disease was examined in a population-based cohort comprising 6459 patients operated during 1950 to 1958 . follow-up through 1983 revealed 131 cases of colorectal cancer versus 150.3 expected cases ( sir = 0.87 ; 95 % confidence limits 0.73 , 1.03 ) . the relative risk was decreased during the first 19 years of follow-up ( sir = 0.75 ; 0.58 , 0.96 ) and close to equal thereafter ( sir = 1.02 ; 0.79 , 1.29 ) . sex , age at operation , type of operation , and diagnosis at operation ( stomach or duodenal ulcer ) did not affect the relative risk significantly . confounding by socioeconomic status is one conceivable explanation for the decreased relative risk during the first years of follow-up , whereas the increasing risk with longer duration of follow-up might be a consequence of the surgical procedure itself . 
removal of radiation-induced cataracts in patients treated for retinoblastoma . experience with removal of radiation-induced cataract in patients treated for retinoblastoma is limited . we retrospectively reviewed the records of 38 patients with retinoblastoma ( 42 eyes ) who underwent removal of radiation-induced cataract from 1973 to 1989 . nineteen eyes ( 45 % ) without macular tumors or severe radiation complications had final visual acuities in the range of 20/20 to 20/50 . one eye ( 2.4 % ) developed a rhegmatogenous retinal detachment and four eyes ( 9.5 % ) were noted to have amblyopia after cataract removal . three eyes ( 7 % ) developed retinoblastoma recurrence , one with extension of retinoblastoma into the subconjunctival space through the previous sclerotomy . exenteration was performed and the patient was alive after 8 years . cataract removal can be visually beneficial in selected patients with radiation-induced cataracts . 
respiratory epithelium in a cystic choristoma of the limbus . a female newborn had a cystic , whitish gray mass at the inferotemporal limbus of the left eye . at age 3 weeks , the newborn underwent excision of the tumor , corneal patch grafting , and superior sector optical iridectomy . histopathologic and electron microscopic examination of the excised tissue revealed a choristoma consisting of cysts lined with respiratory epithelium . to our knowledge , respiratory epithelium in a limbal choristoma has not been previously reported . 
control of interleukin-1 beta expression by protein kinase c and cyclic adenosine monophosphate in myeloid leukemia cells . we have examined the signal transduction pathways leading to the expression of the interleukin-1 beta ( il-1 beta ) gene in human myeloid leukemia cells lines . two cell lines representing different stages of differentiation were used ( hl-60 , promyelocytic , and thp-1 , mature monocytic ) . in accordance with previous studies , it was observed that a protein kinase c ( pkc ) activator , phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) , was a sufficient stimulus for induction of the il-1 beta messenger rna ( mrna ) expression and il-1 beta protein production in both of these cell lines . a structural analog of cyclic adenosine monophosphate ( dbcamp ) or agents elevating the endogenous camp levels ( prostaglandin e2 , forskolin ) were not alone able to induce il-1 beta expression , but they strongly enhanced the pma-induced il-1 beta production and il-1 beta mrna accumulation . nuclear run off analysis showed that this elevation in il-1 beta mrna levels was due to an increased rate of transcription . if dbcamp was added 6 hours before pma to the cultures , no enhancement in the il-1 beta production was seen , implying that for this enhancing effect both of these signals must be present simultaneously . pkc inhibitor , h7 , also blocked effectively the pma plus dbcamp induced il-1 beta production , while the protein kinase a ( pka ) inhibitor , ha1004 , had no effect , suggesting that pka activation is not involved in the mechanism of action of camp in this case . collectively , the present findings show that camp-dependent signals can have a positive regulatory effect on the pkc-dependent activation of the il-1 beta gene in cells derived from different stages of myeloid differentiation . 
potentiation of the erythropoietin response by dimethyl sulfoxide priming of erythroleukemia cells : evidence for interaction of two signaling pathways . erythropoietin ( epo ) and dimethyl sulfoxide ( dmso ) are believed to induce the differentiation of transformed erythroid cells by different signal transduction pathways . we have now obtained evidence for the interaction of these pathways . we used a rauscher murine erythroleukemia cell line with a relatively low ( 8 % to 10 % ) hemoglobinization response to epo alone . pretreatment of these cells for 1 day with dmso followed by its removal and the addition of epo resulted in a marked enhancement of the epo specific hemoglobinization . we have designated this effect " dmso priming . " this priming effect of dmso on the epo response was both time-dependent and dmso concentration-dependent . dmso priming potentiated the epo response in three ways . firstly , dmso priming increased the total number of epo responsive cells from 8 % to 10 % to 40 % to 60 % . secondly , dmso priming reduced the time required to reach the optimal epo-induced response from 4 days to 2 days . thirdly , the epo dose-response curve was left-shifted approximately 20-fold . dmso priming was also associated with a marked increase in epo receptor density characterized by an apparently new receptor population and by the appearance of positive cooperativity between receptors . our results suggest that the dmso priming effect is due to potentiation of the epo signaling pathway , thus resulting in a much more rapid and dramatic epo-induced hemoglobinization response . 
different effect of benzylacyclouridine on the toxic and therapeutic effects of azidothymidine in mice . it has been reported that in vitro uridine ( urd ) can reverse azidothymidine ( azt ) cytotoxicity without decreasing anti-human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) activity . our studies in mice have shown that daily oral doses of benzylacyclouridine ( bau ) , an inhibitor of urd breakdown , also reduces azt hematologic toxicity , presumably by elevating the plasma concentration of urd . we now extend these murine studies and report the effect of various doses of exogenous urd , various doses of bau , or the combination of bau and urd , administered daily , on azt-induced toxicity . in mice receiving concomitant azt , daily doses of urd of 1,000 to 2,000 mg/kg increase peripheral reticulocytes and slightly reduce azt-induced hematologic toxicity . however , the range of effective doses is narrow , and higher doses of urd ( greater than 3,000 mg/kg/d ) significantly enhance hematologic toxicity . at its most effective dose , ( 2,000 mg/kg/d ) , urd produces 28 % mortality . in contrast , bau doses up to 300 mg/kg/d reduced azt-related hematologic toxicity in a dose-dependent manner without mortality . higher daily doses of bau and the combination of bau with low doses of urd were not more effective . studies conducted in mice infected with the rauscher murine leukemia virus ( rlv ) indicate that bau does not impair the antiretroviral effect of azt when administered at doses that reduce azt-induced anemia and leukopenia . these findings may be significant for the treatment of patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) and aids-related complex . 
long-term ( 5 to 20 years ) evolution of nongrafted aplastic anemias . the cooperative group for the study of aplastic and refractory anemias . in the presence of aplastic anemia ( aa ) , therapeutic choices should be determined while taking into account not only changes for immediate improvement , but also both the risks for late-occurring complications and the following quality of life . we report here data concerning a long-term clinical survey ( 5 to 18 years with a median of 12 years ) including 156 nongrafted patients receiving androgen therapy ; all patients were alive more than 5 years after diagnosis ( 40 % of patients included at time of diagnosis in our multicentric analysis ) . between the 5th and the 13th year follow-up , 21 patients died of various causes either related to aa or to its treatment : 12 of infection or hemorrhage secondary to pancytopenia ( 6 relapses and 6 that had never been improved ; 2 with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria [ pnh ] ) ; 5 of leukemia ; 1 of a non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ; 2 of late side effects following transfusion ( 1 acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and 1 chronic b hepatitis ) ; and a single case of myocardial infarction ( the latter could possibly result of androgen therapy ) . thirteen patients in total developed pnh ( among which 10 had clinical symptoms including 2 deaths , and 3 exhibited only biologic abnormalities ) . few long-term side effects of androgens could be noticed . adult height was normal in patients treated during childhood and so was young women 's fertility . no malignant hepatoma occurred . this survey allows the recording of late spontaneous hematologic improvement ( between 5 and 10 years of evolution ) . this occurred in 50 % of patients that had remained cytopenic 5 years after diagnosis . although bone marrow stem cell concentration remained abnormal after 10 years of evolution . 85 % of patients had a normal red blood cell count , 80 % a normal polymorphonuclear count , and 66 % a normal platelet count . all patients who did not show late complications had an excellent quality of life . 
transformation-associated alterations in interactions between pre-b cells and fibronectin . marrow stromal elements produce as yet uncharacterized soluble growth factors that can stimulate the proliferation of murine pre-b cells , although close contact between these two cell types appears to ensure a better pre-b cell response . we have now shown that freshly isolated normal pre-b cells ( ie , the b220 + , surface mu - fraction of adult mouse bone marrow ) adhere to fibronectin ( fn ) via an rgd cell-attachment site , as shown in a serum-free adherence assay , and they lose this functional ability on differentiation in vivo into b cells ( ie , the b220 + , surface mu + fraction ) . similarly , cells from an immortalized but stromal cell-dependent and nontumorigenic murine pre-b cell line originally derived from a whitlock-witte culture were also found to adhere to fibronectin ( fn ) via an rgd cell-attachment site . moreover , in the presence of anti-fn receptor antibodies , the ability of this immortalized pre-b cell line to proliferate when co-cultured with a supportive stromal cell line ( m2-10b4 cells ) was markedly reduced ( down to 30 % of control ) . this suggests that pre-b cell attachment to fn on stromal cells may be an important component of the mechanism by which stromal cells stimulate normal pre-b cell proliferation and one that is no longer operative to control their more differentiated progeny . two differently transformed pre-b cell lines , both of which are autocrine , stromal-independent , tumorigenic in vivo , and partially or completely differentiation-arrested at a very early stage of pre-b cell development , did not bind to fn . in addition , anti-fn receptor antibodies were much less effective in diminishing the ability of these tumorigenic pre-b cells to respond to m2-10b4 cell stimulation , which could still be demonstrated when the tumorigenic pre-b cells were co-cultured with m2-10b4 cells at a sufficiently low cell density . analysis of cell surface molecules immunoprecipitated from both the nontumorigenic and tumorigenic pre-b cell lines by an anti-fn receptor antibody showed an increase in very late antigen ( vla ) alpha chain ( s ) in both tumorigenic pre-b cell lines and a decrease in the beta 1 chain in one . interestingly , all of the pre-b cell lines expressed similar amounts of messenger rna for the beta 1 chain of the fn receptor . these results suggest that alteration of fn receptor expression on pre-b cells may represent a mechanism contributing to the outgrowth of leukemic pre-b cells with an autocrine phenotype and capable of stromal cell-independent , autonomous growth . 
in vitro drug sensitivity of cells from children with leukemia using the mtt assay with improved culture conditions . the knowledge about drug resistance in childhood leukemias and acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) in general is limited . this is because of the lack of a suitable in vitro drug sensitivity assay , which is in part due to low in vitro all cell survival . we recently adapted the highly efficient 3 - [ 4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl ] -2,5 - diphenyl tetrazolium bromide ( mtt ) assay to test cells from all patients and showed that its results were comparable with those of the disc assay , up to now the most valid but laborious assay . in this study , in vitro drug sensitivity was assessed in cells from 82 children with leukemia , 79 of whom had all , with the mtt assay . dose response curves were obtained for 6-mercaptopurine , 6-thioguanine ( 6-tg ) , prednisolone ( pred ) , daunorubicin ( dnr ) , vincristine ( vcr ) , cytosine arabinoside ( ara-c ) , l-asparaginase ( l-asp ) , mafosfamide , and mustine . a cytotoxic effect of methotrexate could be detected in only a few cases . large interindividual differences in drug sensitivity were detected . compared with leukemia cells from newly diagnosed patients , leukemia cells from relapsed patients were significantly more in vitro resistant to 6-tg , pred , ara-c , mafosfamide and mustine but not to dnr , vcr , and l-asp . improvements of culture medium and methods to increase mtt reduction were studied . from 10 components tested , addition of insulin and bovine serum albumin to serum-containing medium improved all cell survival . addition of succinate did not increase the amount of mtt reduction . we conclude that the in vitro mtt assay highly facilitates large-scale studies on drug resistance of all patients that can lead to rational improvements in existing treatment protocols . 
analysis of interferon-inducible genes in cells of chronic myeloid leukemia patients responsive or resistant to an interferon-alpha treatment . recombinant human interferon-alpha ( ifn-alpha ) can induce a hematologic remission in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia . however , some patients are resistant and others develop late resistance to the ifn-alpha treatment . to understand the molecular mechanism of this resistance , we have analyzed the expression of 10 ifn-inducible genes in the cells of three resistant patients , two responsive patients , and six healthy controls . northern blot hybridizations showed that all the genes were induced in in vitro ifn-alpha treated peripheral blood cells of the patients and healthy controls . these genes were also inducible in peripheral blood and bone marrow cells of two out of two resistant patients administered an injection of ifn-alpha . we conclude that the resistance to the ifn-alpha treatment of the chronic myeloid leukemia patients we studied is not due to ( 1 ) the absence of induction of any of the 10 ifn-inducible genes we studied , including the low-molecular-weight 2 ' -5 ' oligoadenylate synthetase ; ( 2 ) the presence of an antagonist of ifn-alpha in the peripheral blood or bone marrow cells ; and ( 3 ) the presence of neutralizing anti-ifn-alpha antibodies . 
down 's syndrome and acute leukemia in children : an analysis of phenotype by use of monoclonal antibodies and electron microscopic platelet peroxidase reaction the clinical , hematologic , and immunophenotypic features in 20 patients with down 's syndrome ( ds ) and acute leukemia were analyzed . of the 20 patients , all 14 patients who were 3 years old and less were diagnosed as having acute megakaryoblastic leukemia ( amkl ) by use of platelet-specific monoclonal antibodies and platelet peroxidase ( ppo ) reaction in electron microscopy . they were characterized by the presence of bone marrow fibrosis , having a history of myelodysplastic syndrome ( mds ) and a poor response to chemotherapy . only one patient has remained in continuous complete remission for more than 1 year . acute leukemia in six patients who were older than 4 years was classified as common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen ( calla ) - positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) . in one of six patients classified as all , the leukemic blasts simultaneously expressed myeloid-associated surface antigens . all six patients achieved a complete remission and have remained in continuous complete remission and have remained in continuous complete remission from 10 to 52 months from the initial diagnosis . although it has been suggested that the distribution of types of acute leukemia in patients with ds is similar to that in normal children , the present study shows that the distribution of acute leukemia types is quite different from that in patients without down 's syndrome . 
serum erythropoietin levels in patients receiving intensive chemotherapy and radiotherapy . to investigate the potential role of recombinant human erythropoietin ( rhepo ) in patients receiving intensive cytotoxic therapy , we measured the endogenous levels of epo in 31 patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) . seventeen patients underwent allogeneic bmt and 14 underwent autologous bmt . on average , 10 + / - 4 units of red blood cells ( rbcs ) were transfused per patient . the mean rbc transfusion requirement of the autologous bmt patients was significantly greater than that of the allogeneic recipients ( 12 + / - 3 v 8 + / - 4 , p less than .01 ) , although both groups were maintained at comparable hematocrits . epo levels were measured by radioimmunoassay ( ria ) . for each patient , baseline serum epo levels were determined at time of admission to the hospital . subsequent samples were collected within 24 hours of completing chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy , and on days 7 , 14 , and 28 , after bmt . hematocrits ( hcts ) were measured daily . all patients had an initial serum creatinine less than or equal to 1.5 mg/dl . despite considerable differences in absolute epo levels among individuals , a characteristic pattern was observed . following admission to the hospital and initiation of cytotoxic therapy , the average hct decreased and the average epo level initially increased . the mean serum epo levels peaked on day 7 post-bmt ( 284 + / - 190 mu/ml ) and fell steadily thereafter . while the average hcts on day 7 and on day 28 post-bmt were not significantly different ( 28 + / - 4.6 % v 29 + / - 3.3 % , respectively ) , the average serum epo levels decreased fourfold ( p less than .01 ) during this same period . moreover , day 28 post-bmt mean epo levels were inappropriately low ( p less than .05 ) when compared with a reference population with bone marrow failure and normal controls who had not received cytotoxic therapy . we conclude that the endogenous epo response appears to be blunted during the 3 to 4 weeks immediately post-bmt . therefore , clinical trials assessing the efficacy of the administration of rhepo in the treatment of anemias associated with cytotoxic therapy are warranted . 
cd11c ( leu-m5 ) expression characterizes a b-cell chronic lymphoproliferative disorder with features of both chronic lymphocytic leukemia and hairy cell leukemia . chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( cll ) and hairy cell leukemia ( hcl ) are two common chronic lymphoproliferative disorders , each having characteristic clinical , morphologic , and immunologic features . phenotypically , cd5 reactivity in cll and cd11c ( leu-m5 ) reactivity in hcl have characterized these two leukemias among b-cell disorders . in this study , we report 14 cases of a novel chronic lymphoproliferative disorder characterized by lymphocytosis and cd11c expression , but morphologically similar to cll . the patients ' ages ranged from 46 to 81 years ( median 62 ) . eleven had palpable splenomegaly , five with markedly enlarged spleens ; only one patient had generalized lymphadenopathy . the white blood cell count ranged from 5.2 to 131.0 x 10 ( 9 ) / l ( median 20.8 ) . the morphologic diagnosis in all cases was cll , with the cells usually having abundant cytoplasm . no morphologic features , of hairy cells were evident ; tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase cytochemistry was negative in all cases . bone marrow biopsies were available in 8 of 14 . four showed focal nodular infiltrates and two had diffuse infiltrates similar to cll ; two showed only minimal interstitial involvement . all cases expressed multiple b-cell markers , and 12 of 14 had monoclonal surface immunoglobulin . the leukemic cells of all cases strongly expressed cd11c , while cd5 was expressed in 7 of 14 ; only 1 of the 14 cases expressed the lymph node homing receptor , leu-8 . this unique group of leukemias appears to represent the malignant transformation of lymphocytes arising from a stage of lymphocyte differentiation between that found in typical cases of cll and that of hcl . cd11c is known to have an important function in cellular adhesion and may be important in determining the pattern of lymphocyte tissue distribution found in this group of patients . 
detection of breakpoint cluster region - negative and nonclonal hematopoiesis in vitro and in vivo after transplantation of cells selected in cultures of chronic myeloid leukemia marrow . philadelphia ( ph1 ) chromosome-positive clonogenic progenitors usually disappear within 4 to 6 weeks in long-term cultures established from the marrow of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia ( cml ) . in contrast , coexisting chromosomally normal hematopoietic cells are relatively well maintained . thus , even though normal cells are initially undetectable , they may become the predominant population . recently , we have begun to explore the potential of such cultures as a strategy for preparing cml marrow for autografting , and based on cytogenetic studies of the differential kinetics of ph1-positive and ph1-negative clonogenic cells , have chosen a 10-day period in culture to obtain maximal numbers of selectively enriched normal stem cells . here we present the results of molecular analyses of the cells regenerated in vivo for the initial three cml patients to be treated using this approach by comparison with the differentiated cells generated by continued maintenance of an aliquot of the autograft in vitro ( using a slightly modified culture feeding procedure to enhance the production and release of cells into the nonadherent fraction after 4 weeks ) for the one patient whose genotype made molecular analysis of clonality status also possible . these analyses showed that cells with a rearranged breakpoint cluster region ( bcr ) gene were not detectable by southern blotting in either in vitro or in vivo populations of mature cells that might be assumed to represent the progeny of primitive cells present at the end of the initial 10 days in culture . production of bcr-negative cells was also shown to be temporally correlated with the appearance of nonclonal hematopoietic cells both in culture and in vivo . these findings provide support for the view that prolonged maintenance of cml marrow cells in long-term culture may allow molecular characterization of both the bcr-genotype and clonality status of cells with in vivo regenerative potential . 
chemoprotective effects of recombinant human il-1 alpha in cyclophosphamide-treated normal and tumor-bearing mice . protection from acute toxicity , hematologic effects , development of late mortality , and enhanced therapeutic efficacy . in this study , recombinant human il-1 alpha ( rhil-1 alpha ) was used to protect normal and tumor-bearing balb/c mice from the acute toxicity caused by lethal doses of cyclophosphamide ( cy ) and 5-fluorouracil . pretreatment of mice for 7 days with 10,000 u/day of rhil-1 alpha protected 70 to 100 % of mice from the acute death induced by lethal doses of both cy ( 380 mg/kg ) and 5-fluorouracil ( 250 mg/kg ) . in contrast , post-treatment of mice with single or multiple doses of rhil-1 alpha was not chemoprotective . pretreatment of mice with rhil-1 alpha increased the acute ld90 of cy from 380 mg/kg to greater than 500 mg/kg in normal mice , an ld90 dose-modifying effect of at least 1.25 , was accompanied by a more rapid recovery from neutropenia and a less severe reduction in the number of bone marrow single lineage monocyte , myeloid , or myelomonocytic colonies . some of the mice ( 10 to 50 % ) that were successfully protected by pretreatment with rhil-1 alpha died after day 50 . these mice consistently presented with extensive pulmonary inflammation and fibrosis at death . mice bearing murine renal cancer ( renca ) were also protected from the acute toxic effects of cy ( 450 mg/kg ) by pretreatment with rhil-1 alpha . renca-bearing mice pretreated with rhil-1 alpha and either sublethal ( 300 mg/kg ) or lethal ( 450 mg/kg ) doses of cy exhibited enhanced survival times over those of untreated renca-bearing mice . interestingly , the cause of death in renca-bearing mice that ultimately failed treatment with rhil-1 alpha plus 300 mg/kg cy was recurrent tumor , whereas most mice treated with rhil-1 alpha plus 450 mg/kg cy had no detectable tumor , although several died from late pulmonary inflammation and fibrosis . thus , the dose escalation of cy in rhil-1 alpha-pretreated mice results in greater antitumor effects of cy . however , the dose escalation of some cytotoxic agents allowed by the use of myelostimulatory agents can result in late fatal complications not detected in acute toxicity testing . 
role of histamine in natural killer cell-mediated resistance against tumor cells . the formation of lung metastases by i.v.-injected b16 melanoma ( f1 and f10 strain ) cells in swiss albino , c57bl/6 , and balb/c mice was reduced by a single dose of histamine given 24 h before tumor cell inoculation . the antimetastatic effect of histamine was specifically mediated by histamine h2-receptors ( h2r ) : it was blocked by the h2r antagonist ranitidine and mimicked by dimaprit , a specific h2r agonist but not by an h2r-inactive structural analog of this compound , nor-dimaprit , or the h1r agonist 2-thiazolyl-ethylamide . a single dose of any of the h2r antagonists ranitidine , tiotidine , famotidine , or cimetidine drastically augmented metastasis . effects of h2r-interactive compounds on b16 metastasis required intact nk cells , as judged by the inability of histamine or ranitidine to affect b16 metastasis after nk cell depletion in vivo using antibodies to asialo-gm1 . nk-cell-mediated lysis of yac-1 lymphoma cells in vivo was enhanced by histamine and reduced by ranitidine within 4 h after inoculation of tumor cells . the antimetastatic effect of il-2 was potentiated by histamine ; in some experiments , combined treatment with a low dose of il-2 ( 6000 u/kg ) and histamine completely eliminated metastasis , whereas concomitant treatment with ranitidine abrogated antimetastatic effects of il-2 ; animals treated with ranitidine and il-2 displayed the same level of enhanced metastasis as those treated with ranitidine alone . the presented data are suggestive of an earlier unrecognized role for histamine in nk cell-mediated resistance against metastatic tumor cells . 
efficacy of interferons on bowenoid papulosis and other precancerous lesions . preliminary results of an open randomized trial of recombinant interferon gamma in patients suffering from bowenoid papulosis are described . recombinant interferon gamma was given subcutaneously to 12 patients at a daily dose of 4 x 10 ( 6 ) i.u. by injection . four patients each were assigned to one of three treatment groups consisting of continuous therapy ( group a ) with three subcutaneous injections per week for 13 weeks ; intermittent block therapy ( group b ) with four six-week cycles consisting of five injections on days 1 , 3 , 5 , 7 , and 9 of each cycle ; and intermittent single-dose therapy ( group c ) with six four-week cycles consisting of only one subcutaneous injection on day one of each cycle . at the twenty-sixth week after onset of therapy , complete responses were seen in three of four patients of treatment group a , whereas in the treatment groups b and c only one patient , respectively , responded partially . these results suggest that in contrast to condylomata acuminata bowenoid papulosis lesions respond better to continuous than to intermittent interferon gamma injections . 
non-aids-associated kaposi 's sarcoma ( classical and endemic african types ) : treatment with low doses of recombinant interferon-alpha . in the treatment of the classical and endemic african forms of kaposi 's sarcoma ( ks ) , radiation therapy and chemotherapy have been widely used with varying degrees of success and morbidity . we here report our preliminary experiences with low doses of recombinant interferon alfa-2b ( rifn alpha-2b ) in the treatment of these types of ks , non-linked to the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . ten consecutive patients ( eight patients with classical and two with endemic ks ) with a median age of 62 years were treated long-term with 5 x 10 ( 6 ) units of rifn alpha-2b ( introna ) given subcutaneously three times weekly for at least 6 months . of the 10 patients , six presented with cutaneous disease only , and four had additional visceral involvement . after 6 months of treatment , seven of the 10 patients had a major response of the cutaneous lesions , and three patients showed stable skin diseases . of the four patients with additional visceral disease , one patient showed a complete regression of an intramyocardial tumor involving the right atrium and ventricle , whereas in the three other patients stabilization of the visceral lesions with marked symptomatic improvement occurred . on the whole , the long-term results over a median duration of 12 months ( range , 7 to 30 ) are also satisfactory : ifn-alpha continued to control ks in all patients . the treatment was generally well tolerated ; no serious side effects were observed . our preliminary data suggest that low-dose rifn alpha-2b regimens are effective in classical and endemic african ks . however , further studies are needed to establish the exact role for ifn-alpha as alternative to radiation and chemotherapy . 
clinical evaluation of interferons in malignant melanoma . the evaluation of interferons in the treatment of malignant melanoma has been mainly in the treatment of advanced disease using interferons as the sole agent or in combination with other agents . studies of the value of interferons as adjuvant therapy in high-risk primary melanoma patients are necessary , but no results have been published to date . human interferon alpha produces low response rates as a sole agent , but in combination with cimetidine , a 30 % response rate has been achieved . recombinant alpha interferons give responses of 15 % -20 % in advanced melanomas , and combination with cimetidine does not enhance the response rate . recombinant alpha interferons have been used in combination with other interferons , cimetidine , monoclonal antibodies , and cytotoxics , with either no or small improvement in response rates . dtic with recombinant interferon alpha-2a has been shown to produce objective response rates of 26 % , with low toxicity and maintenance of quality of life . a randomized trial with dtic as the sole agent , compared with combination treatment , is being conducted to determine the significance of this finding . 
long-term adjuvant therapy of high-risk malignant melanoma with interferon alpha 2b . fifty-three high-risk melanoma patients in stage i and 15 patients in stage ii were treated after standard surgical intervention with adjuvant therapy with recombinant interferon alpha-2b ( rifn alpha 2b ) therapy for a total period of 20 months . concomitant patients ( stage i , n = 82 ; stage ii , n = 33 ) with identical stages and prognostic factors without adjuvant therapy were used to evaluate the efficacy of rifn alpha 2b therapy . no difference in 5-year relapse incidence and overall survival rates could be detected . however , it appears that patients of both stage i and stage ii benefit from long-term adjuvant rifn alpha 2b therapy , because during the treatment period ( 20 months ) , the incidence of relapses was lower in comparison to controls . after stopping treatment the incidence of relapse is equal in treated and control groups . according to the results of our study , we suggest using continuous low-dose rifn alpha 2b therapy for adjuvant treatment of malignant melanoma . 
photochemotherapy alone or combined with interferon alpha-2a in the treatment of cutaneous t-cell lymphoma . eighty-two patients with either mycosis fungoides ( mf ) or parapsoriasis en plaques were treated with psoralens ultraviolet a light ( puva ) . clinical and histologic parameters were followed for a period from 6 months to 10 years . complete clinical clearing of lesions was observed in 51 patients ( 62 % ) and most of them were in limited-plaque mf group or parapsoriasis en plaque . the mean total dose of puva for complete clearing was less for early mf . thirty-one patients ( 38 % ) relapsed and responded to additional puva . patients in early stages of the disease remained clear for up to 68 months after the first course of puva . post-treatment skin biopsies with early mf showed histologic clearing . a new combination therapy for mf is presented in 15 patients . recombinant interferon alpha-2a ( roferon-a ) , administered intramuscularly combined with puva were tested in a phase i trial . interferon doses were from 6-30 million units three times weekly . disease stages ranged from i-b to iv-b . complete responses were obtained in 12 of 15 patients , and partial responses seen in 2 of 15 patients , for an overall response rate of 93 % . the median duration of response exceeded 23 months ( range , 3 to 25 months ) . all responding patients have been maintained on therapy . the dose-limiting toxicities were constitutional symptoms such as fevers and malaise ( 93.3 % ) , leukopenias ( 40.0 % ) , mental status changes consisting of depression and confusion ( 33.3 % ) , and photosensitivity ( 26.6 % ) . interferon plus puva appear to be highly effective regimens for the treatment of patients with cutaneous t-cell lymphomas . 
interferon alpha and etretinate combination treatment of cutaneous t-cell lymphoma . eleven patients suffering from cutaneous t-cell lymphoma ( mycosis fungoides ) were treated with recombinant interferon alpha-2a in combination ( seven patients ) or alone . two patients , one in combined treatment , went into clinical complete remission , and five experienced partial remission . two patients progressed during therapy , and two were nonevaluable because they stopped treatment early due to side effects . dosages of interferon were from 3 to 36 million units daily for 3 months , and thereafter 3 times weekly . etretinate ( 0.7 mg/kg ) was given orally . the study showed that recombinant interferon alpha-2a in combination with etretinate or alone can induce remission of cutaneous t-cell lymphoma . 
recombinant ifn-alpha in lymphomas . the effectiveness of interferon ( ifn ) therapy in malignant lymphoma is analyzed in this review . although various treatment regimens including ifn at various dose levels have so far not proved to have curative potential , a substantial palliative effect has been noted in hairy-cell leukemia and in some non-hodgkin lymphomas of low-grade malignancy . early stages of lymphoma disease are more responsive to ifn therapy , and this holds true also for chronic lymphocytic leukemia , in which ifn treatment is usually not effective in progressed disease after chemotherapy . concepts of early-phase treatment and of remission maintenance by using ifn therapy are discussed on the basis of the data from several studies . 
cytostatic and cytotoxic effects of recombinant tumor necrosis factor-alpha on sensitive human melanoma cells in vitro may result in selection of cells with enhanced markers of malignancy . monolayer cultures of the human melanoma cell lines stml-12 , stml-11 , stml-14 ( third , respectively , twenty-fifth subculture ) , and skmel-28 derived from specimens representing different stages of tumor progression were treated with 10-10 ,000 u/ml rtnf-alpha applied for 72 h. the effects of rtnf-alpha on cell proliferation , dna synthesis , cell viability , cloning efficiency , cell division , cell morphology , and the immunophenotype were studied in triplicate experiments . the cell line stml-14 ( 3 ) revealed a significantly dose-dependent reduction of growth due to both cytostatic and cytotoxic activities of rtnf-alpha as well as a decrease of ce . increased numbers of cells in prophase were observed 24 h after addition of r-tnf-alpha . in addition , dislocation of chromosomes in the metaphase , formation of micronuclei , and dose-dependent increases of cells exhibiting micronuclei and the dna amount per cell were detected at the end of treatment . on the other hand , only a slight sensitivity to the anti-proliferative effect of rtnf-alpha was observed with stml-14 ( 25 ) and skmel-28 , whereas stml-12 and stml-11 were significantly resistant . the last four cell lines were serially subcultivated and presented common phenotypic patterns with more malignant characteristics than the cell line stml-14 ( 3 ) before treatment . overall , rtnf-alpha enhanced the malignant immunophenotype of the cell lines tested . it increased the expression of the " late " melanoma progression markers a. 10.33 and a. 1.43 , and ki67 , and it decreased the expression of the " early " progression marker k. 1.2 . the expression of hla-i , hla-dr , and icam-1 was also enhanced after rtnf-alpha treatment , whereas in contrast to other cytokines , rtnf-alpha did not induce the de novo expression of hla-dr in hla-dr-negative melanoma cell lines . these findings indicate that rtnf-alpha induces cytostasis and decreases cell viability of certain rtnf-alpha-sensitive melanoma cells . these effects may result in selection of rtnf-alpha-non-sensitive human melanoma cell populations with higher proliferation rates and a more aggressive immunophenotype in vitro . 
high incidence of antibodies to htlv-i tax in blood relatives of adult t cell leukemia patients . adult t cell leukemia ( atl ) is caused by the human t cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-i ) . although the mechanisms of the leukemogenic process are unknown , the tax gene may have a role in this process . because clustering occurs with htlv-i and atl , members of atl families were examined for antibodies to the tax protein and compared with matched htlv-i-positive blood donors . to investigate the antibody response to this protein , a plasmid , pbhx-4 , was constructed to express a recombinant tax protein ( r-tax ) . for atl patients and their htlv-i antibody-positive blood relatives , the rate of seroreactivity with the r-tax protein was 67.3 % ( 35/52 ) , compared with 51.6 % ( 97/188 ) for htlv-i antibody-positive control blood donors ( p less than .05 ) . the difference between direct offspring of atl patients and matched htlv-i blood donors was even greater ( 84.2 % [ 16/91 ] vs. 44.2 % [ 42/95 ] ; p less than .005 ) . thus , tax antibody positivity in direct offspring of atl patients may reflect differences in time or route of htlv-i infection . alternatively , it might reflect genetic differences in host susceptibility or virus strain . 
tumor-associated neurological dysfunction prevented by lazaroids in rats . the efficacy of u-74006f and u-78517f in the treatment of blood-tumor barrier permeability and tumor-associated neurological dysfunction was evaluated in a brain-tumor model in rats . u-74006f is a 21-aminosteroid and u-78517f is a 2-methylamino chroman . rats with stereotactically implanted walker 256 tumors were treated with methylprednisolone , u-74006f , u-78517f , or vehicle ( 0.05 n hcl ) on days 6 through 10 following implantation . neurological function and vascular permeability were assessed on day 10 . methylprednisolone and u-74006f were equally effective at preventing neurological dysfunction compared to the control group ( p less than 0.01 ) ; u-78517f was slightly less effective than u-74006f and methylprednisolone but was significantly better than vehicle in preventing neurological dysfunction . delivery of methylprednisolone resulted in a significant decrease in tumor vascular permeability ( p less than 0.006 ) while u-74006f and u-78517f had no effect on permeability . this suggests that u-74006f and u-78517f prevented tumor-associated neurological dysfunction by a mechanism other than decreasing permeability in tumor capillaries , and that u-74006f or u-78517f could prove useful in the treatment of brain tumors . 
epidermoid cysts of the brain stem . report of three cases . the authors report the cases of three patients with epidermoid cysts which insinuated themselves into the brain stem . in all three patients , the tumor occupied the pons , although in one it was predominantly located in the medulla . the cyst contents and nonadherent tumor capsule were removed in all three patients , but no attempt was made to remove tumor densely adherent to the brain stem . one patient 's cyst was removed in one operation , but maximal resection in the other two required two operations . after surgery , sixth nerve function completely returned in one patient ; another patient had a stable pontine gaze palsy but developed new facial weakness ; and the third patient had stable cranial nerve deficits with a diminished hemiparesis . the last patient developed a pseudomeningocele and communicating hydrocephalus , and required a lumboperitoneal shunt . in all three patients , computerized tomography scans demonstrated hypodense tumors not enhanced by contrast material . magnetic resonance imaging was performed on two patients ; in both , the tumors showed increased signal intensity relative to brain on t1-weighted images and decreased signal intensity relative to brain on t2-weighted studies . magnetic resonance imaging , the most accurate modality for localizing these lesions and determining their extent , was also invaluable for postoperative monitoring and follow-up evaluation . safe and adequate resection includes decompression of cyst contents and removal of nonadherent portions of the cyst capsule . cyst wall adherent to the brain stem , however , should not be removed . 
pseudopsammomatous meningioma with elevated serum carcinoembryonic antigen : a true secretory meningioma . case report . a sphenoid-wing meningioma in a 60-year-old woman was accompanied by elevated serum carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) levels , which returned to normal after removal of the tumor . light microscopic examination revealed a secretory meningioma containing numerous pseudopsammoma bodies and a prominent vascular pattern . immunohistochemical analysis showed the tumor cells and pseudopsammoma bodies to be cea-positive . this case illustrates the possibility that secretory meningioma may be associated with clinically detectable secretion of cea . the report also documents the rare occurrence of elevated serum cea in a primary benign intracranial tumor . 
the fastigial pressor response . case report . a distinct vasomotor and cardioregulatory response first identified experimentally was elicited intraoperatively in a 6-year-old girl by local mechanical stimulation in the vicinity of the fastigial nucleus of the cerebellum . these findings are discussed in the light of current experimental knowledge of the anatomy and physiology of the fastigial pressor response . 
correlates of survival and the daumas-duport grading system for astrocytomas . in order to examine the correlation between prognosis and the histological features of nuclear atypia , mitosis , endothelial proliferation , and necrosis in supratentorial adult astrocytomas , the authors reviewed 251 such cases treated at the massachusetts general hospital between 1972 and 1980 . one point was given for the presence of each feature . the total number of features was translated into a grade as follows : none of the four features = grade 1 ( one patient ) , one feature = grade 2 ( 36 patients ) , two features = grade 3 ( 33 patients ) , and three or four features = grade 4 ( 181 patients ) . the period of survival was significantly associated with grade , the presence or absence of each of the four histological features , patient 's age , type of operation , radiation therapy , and extent of tumor ( log rank , p less than 0.05 ) . the variables associated with grade were age ( p less than 0.001 ) and radiation therapy ( p less than 0.02 ) . after adjustment for these variables using a cox proportional-hazards model , the difference in overall survival time between patients in grades 2 and 3 was not statistically significant . when comparable groups of patients were examined in terms of age or receipt of radiation therapy , the median survival times differed markedly . patients 50 years of age or less had a median survival time of 68 months ( grade 2 tumors ) , 29 months ( grade 3 tumors ) , and 13 months ( grade 4 tumors ) . patients over 50 years of age had a median survival time of 6 months ( grade 2 and 4 tumors ) and 9 months ( grade 3 tumors ) . those patients who had received radiation therapy had a median survival time of 68 months ( grade 2 tumors ) , 21 months ( grade 3 tumors ) , and 11 months ( grade 4 tumors ) . those patients who did not receive radiation therapy had a median survival time of 1 month ( grade 2 tumors ) and 2 months ( grade 3 and 4 tumors ) ; over half of these patients died within 2 months of surgery . this grading system , originally proposed by daumas-duport , et al. , is simple , objective , and reproducible , and correlates well with survival times . the authors recommend that astrocytomas be graded on a scale of 1 to 4 , with grade 1 reserved for the rare adult supratentorial astrocytoma with none of the four histological features . 
idiopathic and glucocorticoid-induced spinal epidural lipomatosis . pathological overgrowth of the epidural fat in the spine has been described and reported nearly exclusively in patients either with cushing 's syndrome or on chronic intake of glucocorticoids for a variety of clinical disorders . the authors report four patients with documented spinal lipomatosis ( three pathologically and one radiologically ) . only one of these patients received corticosteroids , and none had an underlying endocrinological abnormality . all four patients were adult males with a mean age at onset of symptoms of 43 years ( range from 18 to 60 years ) . the symptoms ranged from simple neurogenic claudication and radicular pain to frank myelopathy . myelography followed by computerized tomography were instrumental in the diagnosis of the first three patients ; the fourth was diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging . the thoracic spine was involved in two cases and the lumbosacral area in the other two . the different treatment modalities were tailored according to the symptomatology of the patients . these included weight reduction of an overweight patient with minimal neurological findings in one case and decompressive laminectomy and fat debulking to achieve adequate cord decompression in the remaining three cases . two patients improved significantly , the condition of one stabilized , and the fourth required a second decompression at other spinal levels . the various modalities of treatment and their potential complications are discussed . 
intratumoral oxygen pressure in malignant brain tumor . oxygen pressure ( po2 ) in brain tumors , po2 in brain cortex surrounding the tumors , and pao2 were measured simultaneously during total resection in 16 patients with previously untreated brain tumors in order to detect hypoxic regions within the tumors . when the inhaled o2 : n2o ratio was 1:3 under enflurane anesthesia , mean pao2 was 109.2 + / - 5.8 mm hg , a rather high value when compared with that obtained when air is inhaled under atmospheric pressure . the simultaneously measured intratumoral po2 and po2 in brain cortex surrounding the tumor were 15.3 + / - 2.3 and 59.8 + / - 6.5 mm hg , respectively . each intratumoral po2 value was significantly lower than that of po2 in brain cortex surrounding the tumor ( mean less than 30 mm hg , wilcoxon signed rank test , p less than 0.005 ) and influenced the oxygen effects on radiation . these results appear to confirm that there are hypoxic regions within human brain tumors . a comparison between intratumoral po2 and either the angiographic or contrast-enhanced computerized tomography scans of the tumor vasculature disclosed no correlation . 
pediatric spinal epidural metastases . a total of 2259 children with solid malignant tumors were treated at st. jude children 's research hospital between the years 1962 and 1987 . of these , 112 ( 5 % ) developed spinal epidural metastasis with spinal cord compression during the course of their disease process . metastatic epidural spinal cord compression was caused most commonly by ewing 's sarcoma and neuroblastoma , followed by osteogenic sarcoma , rhabdomyosarcoma , hodgkin 's disease , soft-tissue sarcoma , germ-cell tumor , wilm 's tumor , and ( rarely ) hepatoma . there was no significant difference in outcome between patients with small-cell tumors ( neuroblastoma , hodgkin 's disease , and germ-cell tumors ) who received only chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy and the patients with similar lesions who received a decompressive laminectomy alone or prior to chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy . patients with spinal cord compression from metastatic sarcoma ( ewing 's sarcoma , soft-tissue sarcoma , osteogenic sarcoma , and rhabdomyosarcoma ) showed a significant improvement with decompressive laminectomy alone or before medical therapy , compared to those who received radiation therapy and/or chemotherapy without posterior decompression . pediatric tumors invade the spinal canal via the neural foramen , compressing the spinal cord in a circumferential manner , allowing decompressive laminectomy ( posterior approach ) to be an effective surgical approach . sixty-six percent of children who had no evidence of motor or sensory function below the level of the compression became ambulatory after surgical decompression and medical treatment , regardless of tumor type . 
photodynamic therapy of spontaneous cancers in felines , canines , and snakes with chloro-aluminum sulfonated phthalocyanine . this is the first report on the photodynamic treatment with a second-generation sensitizer , chloro-aluminum sulfonated phthalocyanine ( caspc ) of spontaneously arising tumors and on the photodynamic therapy ( pdt ) of snake neoplasms . each of 10 cats , 2 dogs , and 3 snakes presenting with a variety of tumor types ( squamous cell carcinoma , mast cell malignant tumor , and mixed carcinoma/sarcoma ) was given an intravenous injection of 1 mg of caspc per kilogram body weight 48 hours prior to irradiation with 675-nm light . some larger tumors ( greater than 1.5 cm deep ) were surgically debulked prior to pdt . no significant systemic toxicity or skin photosensitization was observed in any animal . the tumor responses were comparable to those seen with conventional cryotherapy , hyperthermia , or surgery . pdt with caspc of these cases led to 67 % ( 12 of 18 ) complete response , 22 % ( 4 of 18 ) partial response , and 11 % ( 2 of 18 ) no response ( less than 50 % reduction in tumor size ) . four cases could not be evaluated . since the overall tumor response to caspc is very good , and the problem of skin photosensitivity is nonexistent , it is expected that using caspc-pdt to eradicate human tumors would also yield comparable results . further studies with long-term follow-up are necessary to optimize the use of caspc-pdt in veterinary and human medicine . 
increased expression of the laminin receptor in human colon cancer . it has been proposed that among the various cell-surface proteins capable of interacting with laminin , the 67-kd high-affinity laminin receptor plays a crucial role during tumor invasion and metastasis . in this study , the expression of laminin-receptor-precursor messenger rna ( mrna ) and 67-kd protein was analyzed in human colon adenocarcinoma . in 22 of 23 patients with colon cancer , we found a 2 - to 23-fold increase in levels of laminin-receptor-precursor mrna in the cancer tissues compared with those in matched normal adjacent colonic mucosa . in 10 of 11 cases studied , the level of 67-kd laminin receptor , detected by affinity-purified anti-laminin-receptor synthetic peptide antibodies on immunoblots of matched tumor and normal tissue extracts , was higher in the colon carcinoma tissue . immunodetection of laminin receptor in tissue sections using anti-laminin-receptor-peptide antibodies confirmed that the increased expression of laminin receptor was specifically associated with the cancer cells . in a series of 72 paraffin sections of colon lesions , we observed a correlation between the expression of the laminin receptor and the dukes ' classification . our observations indicate that increased expression of laminin-receptor-precursor mrna is associated with enhanced levels of the 67-kd laminin receptor as well as with the invasive phenotype of colon carcinoma . detection of this metastasis-associated gene product may be a valuable adjunct in the evaluation of human colon cancer . 
effect of prior cancer chemotherapy on human tumor-specific cytotoxicity in vitro in response to immunopotentiating biologic response modifiers . tumor-specific cytotoxicity was measured in fresh human biopsy specimens by a modification of the differential staining cytotoxicity assay . imuvert , a cytokine inducer derived from serratia marcescens , which produces broad-spectrum activation of both macrophages and lymphocytes , was dramatically more effective when it was tested in tumors obtained from patients with previously treated , chemotherapy-responsive adenocarcinomas ( breast and ovary ) than when it was tested in tumors obtained from either previously untreated patients or previously treated patients with chemotherapy-refractory adenocarcinomas ( colon , lung , pancreas , stomach , kidney , gallbladder , uterus , and prostate ) . similar findings , relating to prior chemotherapy treatment status , were obtained for tumor necrosis factor and interferon gamma , but not for interleukin-2 or interferon alpha . on the basis of these findings and on other evidence in the literature , we speculate that response to chemotherapy produces massive release and processing of tumor antigens . we further speculate that this response leads to a state in which the human immune system is primed ( via in situ vaccination ) to respond to exogenous macrophage-activation signals with potent , specific antitumor effects . 
elevated expression of the c-fes proto-oncogene in adult human myeloid leukemia cells in the absence of gene amplification . expression of the 93-kd tyrosine kinase encoded by the human c-fes proto-oncogene ( also known as fes ) is restricted to mature hematopoietic cells of the granulocytic and monocytic lineages , suggestive of a function essential to normal myeloid differentiation . however , recent studies have shown that c-fes can transform fibroblasts if sufficient levels of gene expression are achieved . these findings indicate that strict regulation of the c-fes gene is critical to normal myeloid development , whereas elevated c-fes expression may contribute to malignant transformation . in the present study , we compared the c-fes messenger rna ( mrna ) levels in leukemia blasts from patients with myeloid or lymphoid leukemia with those of peripheral monocytes from a normal donor with the use of a quantitative ribonuclease protection assay . the presence of c-fes mrna was readily detected in both acute myeloid leukemia ( aml ) and chronic myeloid leukemia ( cml ) cells , but c-fes mrna was present in low levels or was absent in lymphoid leukemia cells . the leukemia cells of two of five aml patients and four of four cml patients expressed more c-fes mrna than monocytes from a normal donor , with more than a threefold elevation in the cells of one cml patient . no evidence of amplification or rearrangement of the c-fes gene was detectable by southern blot analysis of myeloid leukemia dna , suggesting that the variation in c-fes mrna levels are related to differences in transcriptional activity and/or message stability . these results indicate that elevated c-fes expression is a common feature of myeloid leukemia cells that could potentially contribute to the leukemia phenotype . 
comparisons of diet and biochemical characteristics of stool and urine between chinese populations with low and high colorectal cancer rates . in an investigation of the roles of diet and stool biochemistry in human colorectal carcinogenesis , 24-hour food , urine , and stool samples were collected from randomly selected participants from two populations with a fourfold difference in colorectal cancer risk : chinese in sha giao , people 's republic of china ( low risk ) , and chinese-americans of similar ages in san francisco county , calif , in the united states ( high risk ) . the findings supported the hypotheses that colorectal cancer risk is increased by the consumption of high-fat , high-protein , and low-carbohydrate diets and is associated with high levels of cholesterol in stool as well as increased daily outputs of 3-methyl-histidine and malonaldehyde in urine . however , risk does not increase with low stool bulk and low total stool fibers . 
phase i trial of piritrexim capsules using prolonged , low-dose oral administration for the treatment of advanced malignancies . a phase i trial of piritrexim was conducted by use of a prolonged , low-dose oral schedule . a number of different regimens were tested , including daily dosing for 21 days followed by 7 days of no drug therapy ; continuous dosing ; and daily dosing for 5 of 7 days for 3 consecutive weeks followed by a week of rest . dose escalation was accomplished by increasing the dosing frequency from once a day to twice a day and then to three times a day and by increasing the number of days of administration . fifty-one patients with advanced cancer were entered in the study . one hundred twenty-four ( 96 % ) of 129 courses were considered assessable . myelosuppression proved to be the dose-limiting toxic effect . other toxic effects included stomatitis , nausea and vomiting , anorexia , diarrhea , skin rash , fatigue , and elevation of liver transaminase levels . antitumor activity was observed in patients with melanoma and bladder cancer , and disease stabilization occurred in those with sarcoma and pheochromocytoma . the recommended dosing schedule for phase ii clinical trials is 25 mg three times a day for 5 days for 3 consecutive weeks followed by 1 week of no drug therapy . 
magnetic resonance imaging of facial nerve neuromas . facial nerve neuromas are uncommon tumors often confused with other tumors of the temporal bone and cerebellopontine angle . radiologically , it may be impossible to differentiate an intracanalicular facial nerve neuroma from an acoustic neuroma . we present three case reports of facial nerve neuromas arising within the internal auditory canal to show the important magnetic resonance imaging features of these tumors . one tumor extended into the cerebellopontine angle , middle cranial fossa , and middle ear . another filled the internal auditory canal and extended through the cerebellopontine angle to the brain stem . the third occurred in a patient who had neurofibromatosis as well as numerous other intracranial tumors . we feel that gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging provides the most useful information in the preoperative assessment of this disorder . 
hematoporphyrin photodynamic therapy : is there truly a future in head and neck oncology ? reflections on a 5-year experience . photodynamic therapy , which consists of the selective destruction of tumors using a combination of a photosensitizer administered systemically ( dihematoporphyrin ether ) and an argon dye-pumped laser , has provoked profound interest amongst oncologists and has particularly titillated head and neck oncologists with its potential . unfortunately , no multi-institutional trials for head and neck tumors have been introduced , and the literature is replete with anecdotal reports from individual researchers on the management of advanced cancers for palliation , superficial early cancers , and field cancerization of the mucosa ( " condemned mucosa " ) . a personal 5-year experience with 41 head and neck cancers was reviewed , as was the current literature . an attempt was made to place in perspective the true role and future direction of this technology . 
rapid sequence treatment of advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the upper aerodigestive tract : a pilot study . a review of the literature suggested that prolonged treatment time may lessen the probability of cure for patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the upper aerodigestive tract . to shorten treatment time , rapid sequence treatment ( rst ) was devised in which chemotherapy , surgery , and irradation were administered in a total treatment time of 8 weeks . twelve patients were treated and followed 3 years or longer . medical complications were minor . osteonecrosis occurred in each of the first five patients and was the only major complication of the protocol . surgical techniques were modified , and no additional patient developed osteonecrosis . no patient developed local or regional recurrence . two patients developed distant metastases and three other patients developed second primaries . absolute survival was 50 % . rapid sequence treatment is an aggressive and potentially hazardous protocol that yielded encouraging results in this pilot study . 
extended retrolabyrinthine transtentorial approach to petroclival lesions . in this communication , an extension of the retrolabyrinthine approach that has permitted safe , effective access to the petrous tip and clivus is presented . the basic technique involved complete mastoidectomy , preservation of the middle and inner ear structures , removal of the sigmoid and middle fossa plates , middle and posterior fossa craniotomies , ligation of the superior petrosal sinus , and division of the tentorium . nine cases that exemplified the versatility of this approach constituted the basis of this paper : 2 cholesteatomas , 2 basilar artery aneurysms , 2 chordomas , and 3 meningiomas . the indications for , and complications of , this method have been discussed . 
molecular pathologic study of human papillomavirus infection in inverted papilloma and squamous cell carcinoma of the nasal cavities and paranasal sinuses . nasal inverted papilloma is a rare benign tumor occasionally associated with squamous cell carcinoma . to determine the etiological role of human papillomavirus in inverted papilloma , and to clarify the relationship between human papillomavirus and malignant transformation of this benign tumor , we retrospectively analyzed inverted papillomas from 26 patients , 7 of whom had squamous cell carcinoma . we used an immunohistochemical method and molecular pathologic techniques , or dot-blot hybridization of dna extracted from paraffin-embedded tissues , in situ hybridization , and polymerase chain reaction . human papillomavirus was detected in 5 of 26 patients ( 19 % ) , 3 patients with human papillomavirus 11 and 2 patients with human papillomavirus 16 . the latter 2 patients had inverted papillomas associated with squamous cell carcinoma . we speculate that human papillomavirus may be related to the malignant transformation of inverted papillomas . 
a novel metalloproteinase gene specifically expressed in stromal cells of breast carcinomas . a gene has been identified that is expressed specifically in stromal cells surrounding invasive breast carcinomas . on the basis of its sequence , the product of this gene , named stromelysin-3 , is a new member of the family of metalloproteinase enzymes which degrade the extracellular matrix . the suggestion is that stromelysin-3 is one of the stroma-derived factors that have long been postulated to play an important part in progression of epithelial malignancies . 
germ-line transmission of a mutated p53 gene in a cancer-prone family with li-fraumeni syndrome tumour suppressor genes , whose usual function seems to be controlling normal cell proliferation , have been implicated in many inherited and sporadic forms of malignancies much evidence supports the concept of tumour formation by loss-of-function mutations in suppressor genes , as predicted by the two-hit model of knudson and demars . the suppressor gene , p53 , is affected in such a manner by numerous mutations , which occur in a variety of human tumours . these mutations usually represent the loss of one allele and the substitution of a single base in the other . we have now analysed the p53 gene in a family affected by li-fraumeni syndrome , a rare autosomal dominant syndrome characterized by the occurrence of diverse mesenchymal and epithelial neoplasms at multiple sites . in some instances the neoplasms seem to be related to exposure to carcinogens , including ionizing radiation . the li-fraumeni family that we studied had noncancerous skin fibroblasts ( nsf ) with an unusual radiation-resistant phenotype . dna derived from the nsf cells of four family members , spanning two generations , had the same point mutation in codon 245 ( ggc ---- gac ) of the p53 gene . this mutation leads to substitution of aspartic acid for glycine in one of the regions identified as a frequent target of point mutations in p53 . the nsf cell lines with the mutation also retained the normal p53 allele . this inherited p53 mutation may predispose the members of this family to increased susceptibility to cancer . 
hemorrhagic pituitary adenomas : clinicopathological features and surgical treatment . forty-five ( 9.9 % ) of 453 pituitary adenomas operated on between january 1973 and november 1988 demonstrated hemorrhagic changes at surgery : 24 had a blood collection , 12 had a blood collection associated with hemorrhagic necrosis , and 9 had hemorrhagic necrosis . thirteen patients ( 28.9 % ) experienced the acute symptoms of pituitary apoplexy , whereas another 32 had an " asymptomatic " hemorrhage , that is , the clinical course was comparable to an uncomplicated adenoma . nineteen tumors ( 42.2 % ) showed marked suprasellar extension , 8 ( 17.8 % ) showed moderate extension , and 11 ( 24.5 % ) showed slight extension ; another 2 ( 4.4 % ) were laterosellar and 5 ( 11.1 % ) were intrasellar . invasive behavior was present in 32 cases ( 71.1 % ) and this may suggest another hypothesis to explain the pathogenesis of tumoral hemorrhage . the incidence of hemorrhagic complications in invasive adenomas with marked suprasellar extension was particularly impressive ; therefore , we do not suggest preoperative bromocriptine treatment in this type of tumor . two of 14 patients operated on by the transcranial route died after surgery , whereas there was no operative mortality in the 31 patients operated on by the transsphenoidal route . it proved advantageous to operate as early as possible , even during the acute phase of pituitary apoplexy . the transsphenoidal approach gave the best results , but to achieve satisfactory late results multidisciplinary treatment was necessary , namely , postoperative radiotherapy in 23 patients , bromocriptine in 12 , and endocrine replacement therapy in almost all . in an average follow-up period of 6.2 years , 5 ( 11.1 % ) symptomatic recurrences were observed . 
the association of hydrocephalus with intramedullary spinal cord tumors : a series of 25 patients . 171 patients with intramedullary spinal cord tumors were operated on , of which 25 patients ( 15 % ) , mostly children , developed symptomatic hydrocephalus . twenty patients ( 12 % ) had malignant tumors , with 13 of the 20 cases ( 63 % ) complicated by increased intracranial pressure and ventriculomegaly . of the remaining 151 patients with benign tumors ( 89 % ) , only 12 ( 8 % ) developed symptomatic hydrocephalus . in an effort to understand the relationship between hydrocephalus and intramedullary spinal cord tumor , the authors analyze the level and histology of the neoplasm , as well as its association with spinal cysts . a review of the neurosurgical literature reveals that 34 similar cases of hydrocephalus associated with intramedullary spinal cord tumors have been reported to date . the authors note that the presence of hydrocephalus in patients with malignant intramedullary astrocytomas is associated with a shorter rate of survival than in those patients with high-grade lesions but without hydrocephalus , apparently due to rapid tumor progression . the ventriculomegaly seen with benign spinal cord gliomas has no statistically significant effect upon long-term prognosis . 
preoperative superselective arteriolar embolization : a new approach to enhance resectability of spinal tumors . the extent of surgical resection of spinal tumors is frequently limited by blood loss and technical difficulty associated with the vascularity of the tumors . we report here the use of superselective percutaneous arterial embolization to reduce the rate of blood loss at the time of surgical resection and enhance resectability . the types of tumors treated were metastatic renal carcinoma , metastatic thyroid carcinoma , metastatic melanoma , and giant cell tumor of the sacrum . two of the patients required repeated embolization and surgery for recurrent symptoms . the estimated blood loss in seven of nine procedures performed on the six patients ranged from 300 to 800 ml , after which no transfusion was required . in two procedures , extensive resection of very large tumors resulted in larger losses of blood , and postoperative transfusion was necessary . no significant complications of embolization or surgery occurred . a key factor in our embolization technique is the use of microfibrillar collagen , which allows occlusion of tumor vessels as small as 20 microns and may prevent reconstitution of the embolized vessels by collateral flow . we conclude that preoperative arterial embolization enhances the resectability of a variety of spinal tumors by reducing intraoperative blood loss . this may provide an additional benefit by reducing the risk related to postoperative transfusion . by permitting a more aggressive surgical approach , the use of preoperative embolization also has the potential to improve outcome in patients with spinal tumors . 
meningiomas involving the clivus : a six-year experience with 41 patients . a series of 41 meningiomas involving the clivus operated on from july 1983 to january 1990 is reported . the presenting symptoms and signs of these patients were similar to those reported previously . all the patients were evaluated by pre - and postoperative thin-section , high-resolution computed tomography using soft tissue and bone algorithms . most of the patients also underwent magnetic resonance imaging . the regions of the clivus involved by tumor were divided into upper , middle , or lower regions on the basis of anatomical landmarks . the diameter of the tumor was measured in three axes , and a tumor volume and a tumor equivalent diameter were computed to categorize tumors as small , medium , large , or giant types . there were 9 medium , 27 large , and 5 giant tumors in this series . some simple and some complex operative approaches were employed to effect tumor removal . large and giant tumors often required more than one operative approach to remove the tumor . intraoperative technical difficulties included tumor consistency , vascularity , dissection from the brain stem , and vascular and cranial nerve encasement . postoperative computed tomographic scans documented total excision in 32 patients ( 78 % ) . residual tumor remained in the clival or cavernous sinus areas . these patients were either being observed , or were treated with gamma knife radiosurgery . there was one operative death due to pneumonia ( 2 % ) , and three patients ( 7 % ) suffered permanent major neurological changes , presumably due to vascular occlusions in the posterior circulation . in the follow-up period , which ranged from 3 to 76 months , 2 patients ( 6 % ) with tumors that had appeared to be totally excised experienced recurrence . these patients were treated by a second operation , alone or in combination with radiation therapy . two patients who had subtotal excisions ( 25 % ) had evidence of regrowth . in 2 patients , tumor growth continued despite gamma knife radiosurgery or external beam radiotherapy . 
surgical resection of intrinsic brain stem lesions : an overview . a major limitation to the effective treatment of intrinsic mass lesions of the brain stem has been the inability to clearly define the pathological anatomy radiographically . the improved soft tissue resolution offered by magnetic resonance imaging , as compared with axial computed tomography , now makes it possible not only to accurately distinguish anatomical relationships , but also to predict the pathological nature of the lesion . accordingly , we have been encouraged to pursue a more aggressive approach to intrinsic lesions of the brain stem that appear well circumscribed on magnetic resonance imaging scan . the object of this paper is to report the successful treatment of four intrinsic lesions of the brain stem and to present an overview of the relevant published experience . 
spinal hemangioblastoma , syrinx , and hydrocephalus in a two-year-old child . a two-year-old child presented with an acute inability to bear weight . radiological investigation revealed a large cervicothoracolumbar syrinx of no known cause . during investigation , acute communicating hydrocephalus developed , which required a shunt . at surgery , a small thoracic spinal cord hemangioblastoma was discovered and excised . complete recovery with collapse of the syrinx followed . the clinical features of this rare childhood tumor and its associated effects are discussed . 
esthesioneuroblastoma with intracranial extension . the authors present five cases of olfactory neuroblastoma with intracranial extension operated on in the department of neurosurgery in collaboration with otorhinolaryngologists . this tumor is most frequently reported as growing inside the nasal cavities , and it can extend to the paranasal sinuses . cases presenting initially as intracranial tumors have been infrequently reported . at present , histological diagnosis of this tumor is aided by the use of electron microscopy and immunocytochemistry . total resection combined with radiation therapy remains the most satisfactory treatment . 
cryptic osteoid osteoma of the cranium : case report . osteoid osteoma is an uncommon benign tumor of bone that rarely involves the cranium . if often causes local pain that is worse at night , characteristically relieved by aspirin , and does not correlate with the size of the lesion . the diagnosis depends on skull radiographs and computed tomography . this report describes a case in which radiographs showed nothing abnormal . the diagnosis and operative localization were accomplished with radionuclide bone scanning . thus , the possibility of radiographically cryptic lesions must be considered in the evaluation of atypical head pain syndromes . 
intracerebral solitary plasmacytoma . we report a rare occurrence of intraparenchymal plasmacytoma and review the literature . the clonal nature of the neoplasm is demonstrated by immunohistochemical and molecular techniques . the importance of the latter techniques in ruling out other pathological entities is stressed . 
mohs micrographic surgery . mohs micrographic surgery is a versatile technique for the treatment of nonmelanoma skin cancers , especially recurrent , invasive , or infiltrating basal cell carcinomas . it provides unsurpassed cure rates by using 100 % surgical margin control , and it achieves maximal preservation of normal tissue . at the conclusion of tumor extirpation , the defect is ready for immediate reconstruction . with better understanding of the mohs micrographic surgery technique , it can be more effectively used as part of a coordinated multidisciplinary approach to the treatment of patients with difficult cutaneous and paracutaneous neoplasms . 
hyperandrogenism in peripubertal girls . androgens arise from either adrenal or ovarian secretion or by peripheral conversion of secreted precursors . the adrenals and ovaries normally contribute about equally to testosterone and ad production . dhas is the major adrenal 17-ks . testosterone is the major circulating form of androgen . more than 96 % of plasma testosterone is bound to shbg ; the free testosterone seems to be the bioavailable fraction . hyperandrogenism must be considered in any girl with premature or excessive development of public hair or acne , menstrual irregularity ( whether it be oligo-amenorrhea or dysfunctional uterine bleeding ) , or obesity . the most common cause of premature public hair development ( pubarche ) is premature adrenarche . the most common cause of hyperandrogenism presenting in a teenage girl is polycystic ovary syndrome . however , the differential diagnosis includes " exaggerated adrenarche , " late-onset congenital adrenal hyperplasia , virilizing tumors , cushing 's syndrome , hyperprolactinemia , acromegaly , and abnormalities of androgen action or of metabolism . the plasma free testosterone is a more sensitive indicator of hyperandrogenism than is the total testosterone concentration . the pattern of response of plasma free testosterone , dhas , and cortisol to dex-suppression testing is diagnostic of the source of androgen excess . most hyperandrogenic adolescents will be found to have pcos . the treatment is chosen according to particular symptoms , such as menstrual irregularity , hirsutism , or obesity . 
transhepatic portal vein catheterization for localization of insulinomas : a ten-year experience . one of the most important factors in the management of insulinomas is the ability to localize the tumor accurately either before or during surgery . we prospectively carried out transhepatic portal venous sampling ( thpvs ) for tumor localization in 35 of 40 patients with organic hyperinsulinism during a 10-year period . in 32 patients who underwent thpvs and in whom a single tumor was subsequently identified surgically , the maximal insulin gradient was located in the vicinity of the tumor in 100 % of cases . specific regionalization of the tumor on the basis of the site of the maximal insulin gradient to one of three regions ( the tail , the body/neck region , and the head/uncinate region ) gave a sensitivity of 81 % and a specificity of 91 % . in contrast , the use of specific cutoff levels for the insulin gradient as a guide to the presence of a tumor in one of these three regions did not increase the accuracy , leading instead to a significant loss of sensitivity with no comparable increase in specificity . there were no major complications from the procedure in any patient . the initial use of computed tomographic/ultrasound scanning and selective angiography localized only 46 % of tumors , whereas subsequent thpvs led to the accurate preoperative localization of 100 % of all tumors submitted to surgery . although the surgeon would have identified 81 % of the tumors correctly at operation , in 19 % ( n = 6 ) he would have failed . four tumors were in the uncinate and two were in the head . it seems that in patients with proved or established organic hyperinsulinism , thpvs may continue to be of value , if only to regionalize the tumor , especially those in the pancreatic head and uncinate process so as to preclude noncurative operations on the body and tail of the pancreas . 
adenomyomatosis of the gallbladder . a premalignant lesion ? gallbladder cancer is the most common malignant tumor of the biliary tract , but its early diagnosis is uncommon . the use of ultrasonography has increased the detection of benign gallbladder tumors , and the premalignant potential of gallbladder adenomas is now undisputed . adenomyomatosis of the gallbladder has recently been suggested to have malignant potential , and we report a case of adenocarcinoma of the gallbladder occurring in localized adenomyomatosis that was successfully treated by radical curative surgery . the more rigorous use of ultrasonography and a more aggressive approach to " benign " polypoid lesions of the gallbladder may represent the best way of achieving early diagnosis and cure in gallbladder cancer . 
greenfield filter as primary therapy for deep venous thrombosis and/or pulmonary embolism in patients with cancer . in 1985 , as a result of the high complication rate associated with anticoagulants in patients who have cancer and deep venous thrombosis ( dvt ) and/or pulmonary embolism ( pe ) , we established a policy of placing greenfield filters ( gfs ) as primary therapy instead of anticoagulation . since 1985 we have been asked to consult in the treatment of 18 patients with cancer and with dvt and/or pe , and we have placed a gf in each of these patients . this represented 34 % ( 18/53 ) of the filters placed during that same period . over the same 4-year period , 11 patients with cancer and dvt and/or pe underwent anticoagulation therapy . the purpose of this study was to compare the results of anticoagulation versus gf insertion in these two groups of patients . a significantly higher number of major complications ( n = 4 ) occurred in the anticoagulation group ( p less than 0.05 , fisher 's exact test ) than in the gf group ( n = 0 ) . the four complications that occurred in the anticoagulation group included three bleeding episodes ( tumor bleeding , gastrointestinal bleeding , and hip hematoma ) and one pe , despite adequate anticoagulation . two patients died as a direct result of these complications ( pe and gastrointestinal bleeding ) . the three patients with bleeding complications each required a transfusion of more than 3 units of blood . all four of the patients with complications had metastatic disease ( pancreatic carcinoma , chronic lymphocytic leukemia , prostate carcinoma , and uterine carcinoma ) . although this is a small , nonrandomized , nonprospective study , the data seem to indicate that gf placement is safer than anticoagulation for dvt or pe in patients with cancer and particularly in patients with metastatic disease . we conclude that gf insertions may be a better primary treatment than anticoagulation . 
leucine kinetics in patients with benign disease , non-weight-losing cancer , and cancer cachexia : studies at the whole-body and tissue level and the response to nutritional support . we have performed intraoperative isotopic infusions of carbon 14-labeled leucine in 65 patients to define the abnormalities in protein metabolism at both the whole-body and tissue level in patients with weight-losing and non-weight-losing cancer . eighteen patients had benign disease , 26 had non-weight-losing cancer , and 21 had cancer cachexia . samples of plasma and expired breath were taken to determine rates of whole-body protein synthesis ( wbps ) , whole-body protein catabolism ( wbpc ) , net protein catabolism , and albumin fractional synthetic rates . tissue samples were taken to determine the fractional synthetic rates ( fsr ) of protein in muscle , liver , cancer , and the tissue in which the cancer arose . in addition , in 14 patients the effect of nutritional support on protein metabolism was assessed . in all parameters examined we were unable to detect any significant differences between patients with no cancer and the patients with non-weight-losing cancer . in contrast , patients with cancer cachexia had a significant elevation ( p less than 0.005 ) in wbpc compared with the other two groups . wbps was also elevated ( to a lesser extent ) in the patients with cancer cachexia , and the rate of net protein catabolism was increased significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) . patients with cancer cachexia also had significantly higher values of fsr of protein in muscle ( p less than 0.05 ) , liver ( p less than 0.05 ) , and albumin ( p less than 0.01 ) compared with the other two groups . in addition , the protein fsr in the cancer rose progressively when the values for the primary cancer were compared with those for nodal and systemic metastases . further , although nutritional support resulted in an increase in host muscle protein synthesis ( p less than 0.04 ) , there was no promotion of fsr of protein in cancer . we conclude that patients with cancer cachexia are actively losing protein as a result of an increase in wbpc that is only partially compensated for by an increase in wbps . there are compensatory increases in protein synthesis in muscle and liver , but these increases in host protein synthesis are insufficient to keep pace with the combined effect of the accelerated rate of protein synthesis in the cancer per se and the accelerated rate of net protein catabolism at the whole-body level . in response to nutritional support , there is a significant increase in the muscle protein synthesis , but we could not demonstrate any increase in cancer protein synthesis . 
gastric duplication cyst communicating with the pancreatic duct : a rare cause of recurrent abdominal pain . a 41-year-old woman with recurrent attacks of postprandial abdominal pain was found on endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and subsequent computed tomographic scan to have an enteric duplication within the substance of the pancreas with communication to the pancreatic duct . celiotomy demonstrated a noncontiguous gastric duplication cyst . internal drainage was curative . 
myogenic regulatory protein ( myod1 ) expression in childhood solid tumors : diagnostic utility in rhabdomyosarcoma . transcripts for the muscle regulatory gene myod1 are expressed during normal skeletal muscle myogenesis and in rhabdomyosarcomas but not in other tissues or in soft-tissue sarcomas . here we report the distribution of myod1 protein , determined by reactivity with anti-myod1 polyclonal sera in normal tissues , rhabdomyosarcoma cell lines , and in a variety of pediatric solid tumors . the distribution of myod1 protein was highly restricted in normal tissues and was detected only in fetal skeletal muscle and more faintly in adult skeletal muscle . all six human rhabdomyosarcoma cell lines analyzed expressed myod1 mrna transcripts as well as immunoreactive protein . the immunohistochemical expression of myod1 protein was then examined in 49 surgical specimens from a variety of pediatric solid tumors . each of 16 rhabdomyosarcoma specimens was positive for myod1 , including four that did not express the intermediate filament protein desmin . two of five specimens originally designated sarcoma type indeterminate ( sti ) and two of three specimens originally designated extraosseous ewing 's sarcoma ( eoe ) were positive for myod1 , suggesting commitment to myogenic differentiation . three of eight wilms ' tumors , which also expressed desmin and had clearly evident myogenic elements , also were positive for myod1 . tumors that failed to express myod1 protein included neuroblastoma , primitive neuroectodermal tumor , non-hodgkins lymphoma , embryonal sarcoma of the liver , malignant fibrous histiocytoma , malignant rhabdoid tumor , and ewing 's sarcoma of the bone . these results indicate that expression of myod1 protein is highly restricted in normal human tissues and that expression of this gene product in malignant tissue may be diagnostic for rhabdomyosarcoma . furthermore myod1 staining may be a valuable adjunct in the classification of pediatric soft-tissue sarcomas . 
vimentin expression appears to be associated with poor prognosis in node-negative ductal nos breast carcinomas . vimentin expression in tumors from 83 node-negative and 112 node-positive patients with infiltrative ductal not otherwise specified ( nos ) breast carcinomas has been compared with 5-year survival . for node-negative , but not for node-positive patients , there was a significant inverse relation between vimentin expression and survival . five-year survival of node-negative patients with vimentin-positive tumors was significantly worse compared with vimentin-negative tumors ( p less than 0.0001 ) . in the node-negative group , only 36 % of patients with vimentin-positive tumors but 82 % of patients with vimentin-negative tumors survived 5 years . tumors of all eight node-negative patients with ductal nos cancer who died in the first 27 months expressed vimentin . multivariate analysis of the node-negative group showed a strong correlation of vimentin expression and overall survival , but weak and not significant correlation between histologic grade or size and overall survival at 5 years . thus vimentin expression seems to be a strong indicator of poor prognosis in node-negative ductal nos breast carcinomas . 
study of neu-protein expression in mammary paget 's disease with and without underlying breast carcinoma and in extramammary paget 's disease . correlation between neu/c-erbb -2 / her-2 gene amplification and overexpression of the neu gene product has been reported in tumors of glandular origin , especially ductal breast carcinomas . formalin-fixed and dewaxed sections from 23 cases of mammary ( mpd ) and 9 cases of extramammary ( epd ) paget 's disease were immunohistochemically stained by means of the monoclonal antibody 3b5 directed against an intracellular domain of the neu gene protein . all mpds exhibited a distinct membrane staining of tumor cells independent of the presence of ductal breast carcinomas found in 18 cases . all these breast carcinomas also were positive for neu staining . in contrast to mpd , all epds were negative . normal epidermis was always negative . northern blot analysis sustained the immunohistologic findings in that the presence of neu mrna could be demonstrated in two of three cases with mpd . negativity in one case was due to dilution effects by nontumor cells . our results suggest that paget cells of mammary and extramammary localization , although very similar phenotypically , derive from different genetic accidents . furthermore neu positivity in all mpds and all underlying ductal carcinomas suggests common genetic alterations for both tumors . however the finding of five neu protein-positive mpds without associated ductal breast carcinomas may suggest a somewhat different transformation process . 
detection of htlv-i proviral sequences in cd30-positive large cell cutaneous t-cell lymphomas . to investigate the possibility that cutaneous t-cell lymphomas of large cell type may be associated with human t-cell leukemia/lymphoma virus type i infection in nonendemic regions , tissue samples from six cases of large cell cutaneous t-cell lymphoma and four cases of small cell cutaneous t-cell lymphoma were screened for the presence of integrated proviral human t-cell leukemia/lymphoma virus type i dna . combined use of southern blot hybridization and enzymatic dna amplification revealed human t-cell leukemia/lymphoma virus type i-specific sequences in all cases of large cell cutaneous t-cell lymphoma and in none of the cases of small cell cutaneous t-cell lymphoma . these results suggest that in nonendemic areas , a significant proportion of large cell cutaneous t-cell lymphoma cases are associated with human t-cell leukemia/lymphoma virus type i. 
immunodetection of the metastasis-associated laminin receptor in human breast cancer cells obtained by fine-needle aspiration biopsy . fine-needle aspiration biopsy of the breast is a very useful technique for the evaluation of a suspect lesion before surgical removal . increased expression of the 67-kd laminin receptor has been associated with the metastatic phenotype of cancer cells , particularly in colon and breast cancers . in this study , the expression of laminin receptor was evaluated using the immunoperoxidase technique in 81 breast aspirates ( 26 benign and 55 neoplastic lesions ) . cells obtained from benign samples exhibited a low level of laminin receptor antigen detected by affinity-purified antibody raised against a cdna-derived laminin receptor peptide . in contrast , 71 % of smears obtained from malignant breast lesions contained cells that were strongly stained by the antibody . heterogeneous expression of the laminin receptor was noted in both breast aspirates and fixed tissue specimens . these data suggest that the immunodetection of laminin receptor in cells obtained by fine-needle aspiration of breast lesions could be a valuable adjunct in the prognostic evaluation of breast lesions . 
proliferation markers ki-67 and p105 in soft-tissue lesions . correlation with dna flow cytometric characteristics . frozen tissue immunoreactivity with ki-67 , a monoclonal antibody that recognizes a nuclear antigen in nonresting or proliferating cells , was compared to dna flow cytometry results ( from fresh tissue ) in a diverse group of 60 soft-tissue lesions . both dna index and ki-67 score were independently reported to be associated with grade and prognosis in sarcomas , but no direct comparison of these two variables was made . it was attempted to measure proliferative activity in fixed paraffin-embedded tissues immunohistochemically in a subset of lesions using an antibody to another nuclear proliferation antigen , p105 . lesions were given a grade according to lesion category ( reactive , 1 ; benign , 2 ; low-grade malignant , 3 ; and high-grade malignant , 4 ) . ki-67 reactivity correlated relatively well with this grading system ( r = 0.59 ) ; benign lesions usually exhibited a low ki-67 score and malignant lesions usually but not always exhibited a high score . for example , some malignant fibrous histiocytomas contained only rare positive cells . some disparity between ki-67 score and grade and within histologic types indicates some independence from these features , a fact that may be important when correlation with prognosis is performed . however ki-67 did not correlate well with flow data such as percentage s phase ( r = 0.30 ) , percentage s + g2m phases ( r = 0.37 ) , or dna index ( r = 0.39 ) . this probably is due to the fact that ki-67 also marks cells in the g1 phase , whereas these are excluded in flow data analyses . anti-p105 highlighted almost all nuclei in all cases tested , including fibromatosis , and did not correlate with ki-67 score , histologic grade or dna flow cytometric data . results with p105 could not be favorably affected by titration experiments . it is reasonable to conclude that the ki-67 score is a variable related to but independent of histologic grade , histologic type , and dna flow values . whether it is prognostically important in human sarcomas , as has been suggested , awaits further clinicopathologic study . 
alternative splicing of endothelial cell fibronectin mrna in the iiics region . functional significance . transforming growth factor-beta 1 ( tgf-beta 1 ) is thought to play a role in modulating vascular cell function in vivo . in vitro , it decreases endothelial cell proliferation and migration . we postulated that these biologic activities could be mediated through tgf-beta 1 modulation of specific gene expression . therefore we differentially screened a human umbilical vein endothelial cell cdna library with cdnas prepared from both untreated and tgf-beta 1-treated bovine aortic endothelial cells . using this technique , we isolated many tgf-beta 1-induced cdna clones . sequence analysis of these cdnas showed that many of them corresponded to alternatively spliced fibronectin mrnas . these fibronectin clones all contained the extradomain i ( ed i ) but three different forms of the type iii connecting segment ( iiics ) . these different fibronectin cdnas were expressed in bacteria and the recombinant proteins used to study the effects of iiics alternative splicing on cell attachment , spreading , and migration in bovine aortic endothelial and smooth muscle cells and b16f10 melanoma cells . the results of these experiments show that attachment and spreading of bovine aortic endothelial and smooth muscle cells depend primarily on the presence of the arg-gly-asp-ser ( rgds ) sequence in the recombinant fibronectin proteins . however attachment and spreading of bovine aortic endothelial cells are modulated by alternative splicing in the iiics region . specifically splicing of the iiics region decreases spreading and increases migration rates of the endothelial cells . on the contrary , using a cell line ( b16f10 melanoma cells ) that is known not to require the rgds sequence for adhesion confirmed previous findings that b16f10 melanoma cells do not require the presence of the rgds sequence for attachment and spreading . indeed b16f10 cells were able to attach and spread on two recombinant proteins that did not contain the rgds sequence . however attachment and spreading of b16f10 were dramatically inhibited when a 75-base pair dna fragment was removed from the 5 ' end of the iiics region . these results suggest that various regions of the fibronectin molecule may be able to interact with different cell populations to promote cell attachment and spreading , and that alternative splicing may modulate this process . 
a three-dimensional system for long-term culture of human colorectal adenomas . studies of the adenoma-carcinoma sequence in the colon and rectum have been limited by the paucity of experimental models of adenoma growth and progression . progress recently was reported in the development of monolayer culture systems . the principal objective of this study was to develop a primary culture system for colorectal adenomas that would simulate three-dimensional in vivo growth . we used a calcium alginate encapsulation technique that was previously described for established tumor cell lines . briefly , fresh resected specimens were washed , minced into small multicellular particles called microadenomas , and encapsulated in 1 % calcium alginate pellets . the pellets were maintained in minimum essential medium containing 10 % fetal bovine serum at 37 degrees c in humidified atmosphere of 95 % air , 5 % co2 . ten of eleven adenomas , including six tubular , three tubulovillous , and one villous have been successfully cultured for 34 to 162 days . cell viability was confirmed histologically by light and electron microscopy . the cells were characterized as epithelial by morphologic features and ultrastructural studies , which showed a high degree of cellular differentiation , including villous brush borders and many desmosomes . both tubular and villuslike structures have been observed in vitro , correlating in some cases with the histology of the parent adenoma . measurements of proliferative activity by [ 3h ] thymidine autoradiography or immunohistochemical staining with the monoclonal antibody ki-67 demonstrated growth fractions of 9 % to 25 % . a simple , highly efficient primary culture system was developed for the long-term maintenance of adenomas that promotes three-dimensional growth patterns and growth rates analogous to those seen in vivo . this model provides an opportunity to develop an experimental system for longitudinal studies of pathologic and molecular parameters in adenoma progression to carcinoma . 
isolation of a complementary dna clone encoding an autoantigen recognized by an anti-neuronal cell antibody from a patient with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration . we isolated a complementary dna clone encoding a 52-kd protein recognized by an anti-neuronal cell antibody in serum from a patient with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration associated with uterine carcinoma . the recombinant protein expressed in prokaryotic cells was specifically recognized by the anti-neuronal cell antibody from the patient , and its molecular weight was identical to that of antigenic proteins in the cerebellum . the deduced protein consisted of 450 amino acids dominated by hydrophilic residues , the calculated relative molecular mass was 51,238 , and the predicted value of the isoelectric point was 4.99 . this complementary dna sequence and the deduced protein sequence have not been reported previously , and the sequences showed no homologies with the complimentary dna or the amino acid sequences in the genbank , embl , or nbrf databases , including the complementary dna for a 34-kd cerebellar protein ( cdr34 ) that is recognized by an anti-purkinje cell antibody . unexpectedly , the transcript of this gene was detected not only in the cerebellum and the brain stem but also in an extraneural tissue , the intestine . 
cutaneous vasculitis associated with pheochromocytoma . we describe a patient who presented with constitutional symptoms , severe hypertension , and purpuric lesions over the knees , thighs , and penis . the patient was eventually diagnosed as having multiple endocrine neoplasia type ii , with cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis . the cutaneous vasculitis persisted despite treatment with high-dose systemic corticosteroids , but rapidly resolved after the removal of bilateral pheochromocytomas . this case demonstrates cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis in association with pheochromocytoma . 
chromatin structural analysis of the 5 ' end and contiguous flanking region of the myeloperoxidase gene . myeloperoxidase ( mpo ) synthesis is known to be associated with the promyelocyte stage of myeloid differentiation . in particular the downregulation of mpo gene transcription is associated with myeloid cell maturation . we examined the changes in the deoxyribonuclease i hypersensitive sites within the 5 ' end of the mpo gene and its 5 ' flanking region during dimethyl sulfoxide ( dmso ) - induced differentiation of hl-60 cells to determine the changes in chromatin structure that accompany this process . the locations of hypersensitive sites surrounding the 5 ' end of the gene in proliferating , uninduced cells were determined : three were observed in the 5 ' flanking region and one within the gene . progressive changes in all sites accompanied the downregulation of mpo transcription after treatment with dmso . no evidence of hypersensitivity was observed in the chromatin region examined after 8 days of dmso exposure . the results provide an example of the changes that occur in the chromatin structure of a gene as it is inactivated during differentiation . 
allogeneic marrow transplantation in patients positive for hepatitis b surface antigen . twenty patients who were positive for hepatitis b surface antigen ( hbsag ) underwent allogeneic marrow transplant for malignancy or other underlying hematologic disease between 1975 and 1986 . after transplant , one patient had serologic evidence of hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) reactivation whereas three patients had evidence of an immune response to hbv . among four patients with serologic follow-up of 1 year or more , three remained positive for hbsag and one became hbsag negative . six patients ( 30 % ) developed clinical evidence of venocclusive disease and seven patients ( 35 % ) developed acute graft-versus-host disease involving the liver , but the incidence of these complications was similar to that expected among patients who are not carriers of hbsag . three patients died with hepatorenal failure , but all three had venocclusive disease and the contribution of hbv infection to liver failure was unclear . available liver specimens obtained at autopsy ( six patients ) or biopsy ( two patients ) all showed either hbsag ( one specimen ) or hepatitis b core antigen ( four specimens ) or both ( three specimens ) by immunoperoxidase staining . although hbv reactivation leading to hepatic failure has been reported among allogeneic marrow transplant recipients as well as other immunocompromised patients , we did not observe an increase in the incidence of severe liver disease after transplant among these 20 patients positive for hbsag at the time of transplant , and do not consider positivity for hbsag to be a contraindication to allogeneic marrow transplantation . 
use of leukocyte-depleted platelet concentrates for the prevention of refractoriness and primary hla alloimmunization : a prospective , randomized trial . compared with conventional transfusion regimes a strong reduction in hla alloimmunization and refractoriness to platelet transfusions is obtained when both red blood cell concentrates ( rbcs ) and platelet concentrates ( pcs ) are depleted of leukocytes by filtration . because most of the leukocyte contamination is introduced by transfusion of rbcs , filtration of rbcs appears rational , but uncertainty exists regarding the degree of leukocyte-depletion of pcs needed for the prevention of hla alloimmunization and refractoriness . we conducted a prospective trial and randomized patients with acute leukemia to receive leukocyte-depleted pcs prepared either by centrifugation ( mean leukocyte count 35 x 10 ( 6 ) / pc of 6 u ) or by filtration ( mean leukocyte count less than 5 x 10 ( 6 ) / pc of 6 u ) . both groups received rbcs that were filtered after prior removal of the buffy coat . clinical refractoriness occurred in 46 % ( 12 of 26 ) of the evaluable patients that were transfused with centrifuged pcs and only in 11 % ( 3 of 27 ) in the filtered group ( p less than .005 ) . de novo anti-hla antibodies were detected in 42 % ( 11 of 26 ) patients in the centrifuged group and only in 7 % ( 2 of 27 ) of the patients receiving filtered pcs ( p less than .004 ) . in 8 of 11 alloimmunized patients in the centrifuged group antibodies were detected in the first 4 weeks of transfusion therapy while none of the patients in the filtered group became immunized against hla antigens during that period . we conclude that for the prevention of hla alloimmunization and refractoriness to platelet transfusions from random donors , both rbcs and pcs have to be leukocyte-depleted by filtration . 
six years ' audit of laboratory workload and rates of referral for colposcopy in a cervical screening programme in three districts objective -- to determine laboratory workload and rates of referral for colposcopy in a three district cervical screening programme during 1983-9 to assess the feasibility of accommodating call up of all women at risk , recall at three year intervals ( now five year intervals ) , and investigation of women with all degrees of abnormality . design -- analysis of computerised screening histories dating back to 1977 of women screened in the avon cervical screening programme . setting -- three district health authorities covering the population of bristol and weston-super-mare , comprising 800,000 people , of whom 250,000 were female residents aged 20 to 64 . subjects -- 196,977 women aged 20 to 64 screened in cervical screening programme since 1983 . results -- laboratory workload devoted to follow up of women with abnormalities increased sharply between 1987-8 and 1988-9 , with increases of 54 % ( from 2075 to 3196 ) in the number of smears for follow up of severe dyskaryosis and invasive cancer , 40 % ( from 1925 to 2695 ) for mild and moderate dyskaryosis , and 49 % ( from 1793 to 2677 ) for borderline change . the increases were partly explained by the introduction in april 1988 of protocols for follow up and investigation based on guidance in an intercollegiate working party report . the proportion of women with mild and moderate dyskaryosis who were recommended for referral for colposcopy increased steadily from 9.9 % in 1983-4 to 79.9 % in 1988-9 , and for borderline change the proportions were 3.5 % and 13.6 % respectively . of all women tested in 1988-9 , referral for colposcopy was recommended in 3 % . conclusions -- the increase in laboratory follow up work identified , if it continued , could result in half of existing laboratory capacity in avon being devoted to follow up work by 1993 , with little prospect of maintaining call , recall , and quality control . investigation of all women with minor cytological abnormalities is neither justifiable nor sustainable and will undermine the benefits of screening by increasing the rate of false positive results and the financial costs . 
how district health authorities organise cervical screening [ published erratum appears in bmj 1990 nov 24 ; 301 ( 6762 ) :1209 ] objectives -- to examine how district health authorities organised cervical screening with respect to department of health guidelines and to determine their assessment of the problems encountered . design -- postal questionnaire sent to all 190 district health authorities in england in 1989 . participants -- 190 district health authorities in england . main outcome measures -- population coverage of screening , quality of smear testing , and follow up of abdominal test results in comparison with national guidelines for district cervical screening services , and problems encountered by districts . results -- replies were received from 178 ( 94 % ) of districts , in 143 of which the person named as responsible for cervical screening contributed . all districts implemented a computer managed scheme , 150 by the target date of 31 march 1988 , but not all of these conformed with the guidelines . at the time of the survey only just over half called women in the target age group of 20-64 and only 70 % expected to meet the target date of 13 march 1993 for completing the call . considerable variation was evident among the schemes with regard to how they dealt with issues related to population coverage , quality of testing , and follow up of abnormal results . the problems most commonly identified by the districts ( n = 174 ) were laboratory workload ( 107 , 61 % ) , computer software ( 104 , 60 % ) , availability of resources ( 78 , 45 % ) , non-attendance ( 77 , 44 % ) , rate of opportunistic screening ( 62 , 36 % ) , and investigation and treatment ( 60 , 34 % ) . conclusions -- current practice in running cervical screening schemes needs to be examined to determine the extent to which it contributes to the goal of reducing mortality from cervical cancer . 
diagnosis of abdominal masses with percutaneous biopsy guided by ultrasound objective -- to assess the accuracy and safety of percutaneous biopsy of abdominal masses guided by ultrasound . design -- prospective study . setting -- combined gastroenterology service , scarborough hospital . patients -- 108 consecutive patients identified as having a discrete mass on diagnostic ultrasound examination of the abdomen . intervention -- a sample of tissue was obtained with an aseptic technique under local anaesthesia : an 18 steel wire gauge needle ( tru-cut ) was mounted in a spring loaded firing device ( biopty gun ) that was advanced under simultaneous ultrasound scanning , permitting precise localisation of the target organ . main outcome measure -- results of histological examination of tissue specimens . results -- biopsy failed in four patients . adequate histological specimens were obtained in 104 patients with masses in the liver ( 31 ) , pancreas ( 37 ) , kidney ( 10 ) , and adrenal glands ( six ) and in 20 undiagnosed abdominal and retroperitoneal masses . follow up was until death or confirmation of the diagnosis . three complications but no deaths occurred . malignancy was suspected in 84 patients before biopsy . this was confirmed in 70 patients , in 26 of whom confirmation of dissemination obviated the need for further investigation . in 10 patients biopsy indicated a previously unsuspected primary tumour , and in 12 it showed only a benign lesion . among 24 patients considered to have benign disease biopsy showed an unsuspected neoplasm in seven . use of biopsy thus had a major effect on clinical management in 55 patients . four false negative but no false positive diagnoses resulted from the procedure . conclusion -- percutaneous biopsy of abdominal and retroperitoneal masses under ultrasound guidance is a safe and accurate method of obtaining a histological diagnosis . the results obtained have a considerable effect on clinical management . 
etoposide . current and future status . etoposide ( vp-16-213 ) is an antineoplastic agent with demonstrated efficacy against a broad spectrum of human malignancies , including testicular , germ cell , lung , and other cancers . etoposide can be synergistic with other agents . as part of combination chemotherapy , etoposide has become a so-called standard in therapies for testicular cancer and small cell lung cancer . its activity in tumors such as lymphoma and leukemia , as well as solid tumors , identifies etoposide as a highly important chemotherapeutic agent . cellular and animal models have shown that the cell kill and tumor response depend on both dose and time of exposure . recent clinical studies again show that dose and schedule of etoposide can have important effects on clinical response to the drug . further research should now continue : ( 1 ) on the use of etoposide as part of initial therapy in several cancers , and ( 2 ) in higher doses and prolonged schedules to optimize this agent 's potential . 
new chemotherapies for ovarian cancer . systemic and intraperitoneal podophyllotoxins . the epipodophyllotoxin derivatives etoposide and teniposide have been evaluated intermittently for possible use in the treatment of ovarian cancer . conflicting studies suggest that variables such as dose and prior treatment have a major influence on outcome . response rates ranged from 0 % to 40 % in five series with teniposide , and from less than a 10 % overall response rate to greater than a 10 % complete response rate in nine studies with etoposide . one study documented activity with oral etoposide . however , because all patients had received various prior chemotherapies , firm conclusions regarding the activity of etoposide could not be drawn . these results , and the expectation of synergy with etoposide and cisplatin , led to several studies that combined etoposide with platin compounds by the systemic and intraperitoneal ( ip ) routes . various studies have used intravenous drug combinations of these agents in both previously treated and untreated patients . one study , which used carboplatin instead of cisplatin , reported only seven failures among 26 previously untreated patients . conversely , the prominent toxicities reported by another study were discouraging , and responses did not exceed what might be expected from cisplatin alone . studies of analogous combinations administered ip are ongoing . a favorable experience , which was initially reported by the university of california ( san diego group ) , is being confirmed by other investigators . this has prompted the incorporation of etoposide into first-line strategies . the pharmacologic advantage of etoposide by the ip route ( related to its high protein binding ) may provide appropriate dose intensity against ip disease while sparing systemic toxicities . finally , systemic dose intensity with autologous bone marrow support indicates some promise for etoposide in combination with high-dose alkylating drugs . 
etoposide in the management of non-small cell lung cancer . etoposide is a phase-specific , schedule-dependent derivative of podophyllotoxin that appears to act by inhibiting dna-topoisomerase ii . early preclinical work demonstrated sharp activity in mouse leukemias and possible synergy with cisplatin . as a single agent ( either orally or intravenously ) , it demonstrated limited benefit in non-small cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) , with response rates around 10 % . in combination with cisplatin , it has become a mainstay of chemotherapeutic efforts , either as primary therapy or in conjunction with radiation . response rates in advanced disease average around 30 % , climbing to more than 50 % in patients with stage iiia or iiib disease . more recent work suggests that the issue of the true synergy of etoposide with cisplatin in nsclc needs reassessment . the relative roles of etoposide and cisplatin in the combination are unclear , as several studies conflict . pharmacokinetic data suggest that multiple daily fractions of etoposide are superior to prolonged infusions , warranting several future trials . the current major role for etoposide plus cisplatin would appear to be in multimodality therapy where the combination can be readily combined with radiation and/or surgery . several other agents have been studied with etoposide or etoposide plus cisplatin ( mitomycin , vindesine , doxorubicin , cyclophosphamide , ifosfamide , and carboplatin ) , but it is unclear whether the addition of any of them offers any response or survival advantage . 
recent advances in etoposide therapy for non-small cell lung cancer . non-small cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) continues to be a major health problem in the us . in 1990 , approximately 120,000 new cases will be diagnosed , and the majority of these patients will have either unresectable disease or resected disease that has a relatively low chance of being cured . a variety of chemotherapy treatments have been evaluated in patients with advanced nsclc . the objective of this review is to summarize the results of the chemotherapy trials in stage iii and iv nsclc patients . 
current strategies in the management of locoregional and metastatic gastric carcinoma . gastric carcinoma remains a significant cause of death worldwide . a patient 's prognosis depends on the degree of gastric wall penetration , presence of lymph node metastases , and location of the primary site . metastatic gastric carcinoma is currently incurable . however , chemotherapy continues to evolve at a rapid pace . active agents include 5-fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) , doxorubicin , cisplatin , methotrexate , mitomycin , and etoposide . combination etoposide , doxorubicin , and cisplatin ( eap ) has been reported to result in encouragingly high response rates , including a 10 % complete response rate in patients with metastatic gastric carcinoma . trials are now under way to confirm these results . similarly , another etoposide-based combination , etoposide , leucovorin , and 5-fu ( elf ) , has resulted in an equally good response rate but less toxicity than eap . the 5-fu , doxorubicin , and methotrexate ( famtx ) regimen , previously reported to have an excellent response rate , is also being investigated further . for patients with locoregional carcinoma , curative resection rate is often unsatisfactorily low ; however , curative resection is consistently associated with improved survival ( between 23 and 26 months ) . in patients with potentially resectable carcinoma , two significant problems must be recognized : ( 1 ) a low rate of curative resection and ( 2 ) the development of widespread carcinoma despite curative resection . despite many attempts , the postoperative strategies of adjuvant chemotherapy have been ineffective . new strategies must be investigated aggressively . combination etoposide , 5-fu , and cisplatin ( efp ) has been administered preoperatively and postoperatively to patients with resectable gastric carcinoma , resulting in an encouraging curative resection rate ( greater than 70 % ) and manageable toxicity . based on promising results reported with eap in patients with unresectable locoregional carcinoma of the stomach , a trial of preoperative and postoperative eap in potentially resectable carcinoma of the stomach is now under way . 
etoposide in the management of metastatic breast cancer . etoposide , despite extensive use in other malignancies , has played a minor role in the treatment of patients with breast cancer . single-agent trials in which etoposide is administered to heavily pretreated patients with metastatic breast cancer have demonstrated a low overall response rate ( 6.6 % of 383 patients ) , with no convincing evidence for either schedule dependence or a relationship between dose intensity and response . the sole single-agent trial in previously untreated patients suggested that the drug has an approximately 15 % response rate in untreated patients . combination therapy trials in which etoposide has been combined with either cyclophosphamide , doxorubicin , or cisplatin have not yet convincingly demonstrated superiority over any of these drugs as single agents , although cisplatin plus etoposide appears to be superior to either agent alone . in vitro studies suggest that pretreating hormone-sensitive breast cancer cells with estradiol may increase their sensitivity to etoposide-induced dna cleavage . this may represent a future direction in the use of etoposide in breast cancer . currently , however , the use of etoposide in breast cancer should be considered investigational . 
etoposide in acute leukemia . past experience and future perspectives . etoposide as a single agent is active in relapsed and refractory acute myelogenous leukemia ( aml ) , with complete responses ( cr ) rates of 10 % to 25 % . the drug has been safely combined with cytarabine , azacytidine , vinca alkaloids , and anthracyclines , inducing remission rates of 20 % to 60 % in patients with previously treated aml . the experience with etoposide in acute lymphoblastic leukemia is less extensive , but the drug seems to be active in combination with cytarabine or aclacinomycin . in addition , etoposide is combined with cytarabine and anthracyclines for the primary treatment of aml . the response rates thus achieved are comparable with those obtained with standard regimens . a phase i/ii trial was initiated to study the efficacy of the nove combination ( mitoxantrone [ 10 mg/m2/d , days 1 to 5 ] plus etoposide [ 100 mg/m2/d for 3 , 4 , or 5 days ] in patients with refractory aml . the results showed that extended duration of etoposide administration is associated with higher cr rates . overall , a cr rate of 43 % was achieved in 61 patients . a sequential regimen with idac ( idarubicin/cytarabine ) and nove was designed for primary treatment of adult patients with aml . cycles of idac or nove are applied depending on response . the results of the pilot study with this strategy were encouraging with 18 of 20 patients achieving cr . further studies are under way to verify the efficacy of this strategy . 
etoposide in leukemia . etoposide ( vp16-213 , nsc 141540 ) induces a complete response ( cr ) in 15 % to 25 % of previously treated patients with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia ( anll ) when used as a single agent . etoposide has been used successfully in combination with cytarabine , daunorubicin , and amsacrine for salvage and consolidation therapies . previously untreated anll patients 15 to 70 years of age were randomly assigned to cytarabine ( 100 mg/m2 ) on days 1 to 7 plus daunorubicin ( 50 mg/m2 ) on days 1 to 3 ( 7-3 ) or to the same drugs plus etoposide ( 75 mg/m2 ) on days 1 to 7 ( 7-3-7 ) . patients achieving a cr received two consolidation courses ( 5-2 , attenuated 7-3 or 5-2-5 ) . among 264 eligible patients , there was a 56 % cr rate with 7-3 therapy and a 59 % cr rate with 7-3-7 therapy . remission duration was significantly improved with 7-3-7 ( median , 12 months with 7-3 and 18 months with 7-3-7 ; p = 0.01 ) , but survival was not . subset analysis in patients younger than 55 years of age revealed prolonged remission ( median , 12 months with 7-3 and 27 months with 7-3-7 ; p = 0.01 ) and survival ( median , 9 months with 7-3 and 17 months with 7-3-7 ; p = 0.04 ) with the 7-3-7 regimen . hematologic toxicity was similar for both regimens during induction , but significantly more severe for 7-3-7 during consolidation therapy . etoposide is active in anll and prolongs remission when used in induction therapy . 
high-dose etoposide and marrow transplantation . etoposide underwent conventional phase i testing in the 1970s . the dose-limiting toxicity in these studies was mild myelosuppression ; other toxicities were infrequent . if a greater degree of myelosuppression is accepted , higher than standard doses could be given . this approach takes advantage of the steep dose-response relationship for most chemotherapeutic agents , including etoposide , as shown in early in vitro and clinical studies . thus , etoposide was considered an ideal agent for further dose-escalation studies , given its wide range of clinical antitumor activity at standard doses , steep dose-response curve , mild bone marrow suppression , and few nonmyeloid side effects . the high-dose etoposide studies that followed used improved and more intensive hematologic supportive care , including , in some trials , autologous marrow transplantation . when etoposide was used as a single agent in these high-dose trials , mucositis , and , to a lesser degree , hepatic dysfunction were dose-limiting . the maximum tolerated dose ( mtd ) in this setting was 2.4 to 3.0 g/m2 . multi-agent phase i trials with etoposide and cyclophosphamide , total body irradiation , carmustine , or carboplatin also resulted in dose-limiting mucosal toxicity , with liver and lung problems appearing more often than with high-dose etoposide alone . the toxicity and mtd can be influenced markedly by the schedule of administration . etoposide as a continuous intravenous infusion can be given at doses of 4.2 g/m2 ( with 200 mg/kg cyclophosphamide ) with similar toxicity , but without marrow support . the antitumor results in the lymphomas set the stage for treatment of solid tumors , where treatment of patients with " sensitive " relapses had the best outcome . lymphoma patients had an 80 % response rate ; overall , long-term ( greater than 2 years ) disease-free survival was approximately 40 % . germ cell tumors were also responsive , and the same pattern of sensitive relapses and improvement in responding patients was seen ( 50 % to 75 % of patients greater than 1 year ) . in breast cancer and small cell lung cancer ( sclc ) , high-dose etoposide-containing regimens were used to intensify standard therapy . the results in these settings were not quite as good ( breast cancer , 30 % disease-free survival at 2 years ; sclc , 10 % at 2 years ) . 
the pharmacology of intravenous and oral etoposide . the epipodophyllotoxin derivative etoposide ( vp-16 ) has been in widespread use both alone and in combination chemotherapy for the past decade . it has phase-specific cytotoxicity that acts in the last s and g2 phases of the cell cycle . although its mode of action is not certain , it appears to act by causing breaks in dna by interaction with dna-topoisomerase ii or by the formation of free radicals . most studies show biexponential decay after the intravenous ( iv ) administration of etoposide . approximately 30 % to 70 % of administered etoposide is excreted , with approximately 45 % present in the urine . etoposide is available in oral and iv preparations . it is highly schedule-dependent , with once-daily doses ( e.g. , for 5 to 8 days every 21 days ) giving results superior to intermittent administration . the bioavailability of oral etoposide is approximately 50 % , but its absorption is not linear with increasing dose ( e.g. , greater than 200 mg/d , bioavailability decreases ) . factors influencing the bioavailability of oral etoposide include patient status , concurrent medications , hepatic and renal function , and nausea and vomiting . in numerous clinical trials , etoposide has demonstrated excellent activity against a range of tumors , including small cell lung cancer ( sclc ) , malignant lymphomas , gestational trophoblastic tumors , ewing 's and soft tissue sarcomas , and germ cell tumors , with more modest activity in other tumors ( e.g. , non-sclc ) . although few comparative studies have been carried out , available data suggest that oral etoposide administered daily during 5 to 8 days is similar to the iv preparation in range of activity . in a study of 53 elderly patients with sclc treated with etoposide ( 200 mg/d for five times ) , there was a response rate of 79 % and a median survival of 9.5 months . these results were similar to those achieved with more intensive iv regimens . several studies of chronic oral etoposide ( 50 mg/m2/d for 21 times ) have been reported recently . responses were observed in sclc and germ cell tumors among patients who had relapsed after standard etoposide-containing regimens . these data suggest that etoposide may be a " new " drug when given in this schedule . the high response rates with oral etoposide suggest that oral administration may be substituted for iv administration . this substitution may allow for greater flexibility in chemotherapeutic administration , less hospitalization , and more acceptable toxicity . 
chronic oral etoposide . etoposide is an important drug that has been recently incorporated with other agents in the curative treatment of patients with advanced neoplasms , including germ cell tumors , non-hodgkin 's lymphomas ( nhl ) , and small cell lung cancer ( sclc ) . etoposide demonstrates remarkable schedule dependency . a randomized comparison has shown an impressive survival difference for patients with extensive sclc receiving a 5-day course versus those receiving a 1-day course . because of these and previous clinical and laboratory data , etoposide is now given intravenously or orally in a 3-day to 5-day schedule . it is generally accepted that approximately 50 % of the orally administered drug is absorbed . the authors have initiated several etoposide studies using an extended administration schedule , believing that a prolonged schedule may be superior to the standard 3-day to 5-day schedule . this was initially tested in a phase i study . results showed that etoposide ( 50 mg/m2/d ) given over 21 days was feasible and was associated with only moderate toxicity . several phase ii studies have been completed or are nearing completion , including studies in patients with sclc , nhl , germ cell tumors , soft tissue sarcoma , renal carcinoma , and ovarian carcinoma . responses have been seen in all of these groups , particularly in patients with sclc , lymphoma , and germ cell tumors . in these groups we saw responses in patients who were clearly resistant to etoposide plus cisplatin given in a standard schedule or in some patients who were resistant to high-dose etoposide with bone marrow transplantation . investigators at indiana university medical center who studied oral etoposide in a similar fashion in patients with advanced germ cell tumors and sclc achieved results similar to those reported here . the authors have initiated a number of combination chemotherapy programs using the chronic oral form of etoposide . these include patients with sclc , non-small cell lung cancer , and elderly patients with high-grade and intermediate forms of nhl . in addition , chronic intravenous oral etoposide is being used in salvage approaches for patients with acute myelocytic leukemia and recurrent resistant intermediate-grade and high-grade nhl . preliminary pharmacokinetic data suggest that a 50-mg/m2 oral dose is highly bioavailable ( 91 % to 96 % ) . therefore , during a prolonged oral course at 50 mg/m2 , many patients maintain a minimum plasma concentration of 1 microgram/ml . further studies of multiple dose or continuous infusion etoposide to maintain a potentially critical plasma level are in progress . etoposide administered in this way could represent a " new " drug because many of its features are different , and its activity spectrum may be broader . 
the role of etoposide in the treatment of poorly differentiated carcinoma of unknown primary site . patients with poorly differentiated carcinoma ( pdc ) or poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma ( pda ) of unknown primary site comprise 25 % to 35 % of the patients with carcinoma of unknown primary site . some of these patients have neoplasms that are highly responsive to combination chemotherapy , and a minority have potentially curable tumors . between 1978 and 1982 , 68 patients were treated with combination chemotherapy ( most received cisplatin , vinblastine , and bleomycin [ pvb ] with or without doxorubicin ) . thirty-eight patients ( 56 % ) responded to treatment , with 15 ( 22 % ) complete responder ( cr ) and 9 ( 13 % ) long-term , disease-free survivors . since that time , we have incorporated etoposide into the treatment of these patients because of its synergism with cisplatin and its great activity against several other neoplasms , including germ cell tumors . seventeen patients with pdc of unknown primary site received salvage therapy with etoposide and cisplatin after failing pvb . ten of these patients had partial responses ( pr ) , with a median response duration of 5 months ( range , 2 to 12 months ) . thirty-two previously untreated patients with pdc received etoposide and cisplatin combinations as initial treatment . eighteen of 30 evaluable patients ( 60 % ) responded to therapy , and 11 patients ( 37 % ) had cr . seven patients remain disease-free 39 to 63 months after the completion of therapy . etoposide is an active drug in the treatment of pdc of unknown primary site . preliminary results indicate that initial treatment with etoposide and cisplatin combinations produces results equivalent to or superior to those achieved with pvb . 
future directions for etoposide therapy . etoposide is an important chemotherapeutic agent in the treatment of selected patients with germ cell tumors , lymphomas , and small cell lung cancer ( sclc ) . its optimal use is continuing to evolve . it is clear that schedule dependency is of critical importance . recently , preliminary studies have suggested that a prolonged schedule of etoposide administration ( 21 days ) may be more effective than the standard 3 - to 5-day schedule . results of several phase ii studies show chronic oral etoposide administration induces occasional responses in resistant tumors and higher-than-expected response rates in patients with germ cell tumors and sclc . preliminary data show nearly 90 % etoposide absorption when given in a low-dose schedule ( 50 mg/m2/d ) for 21 days . these observations indicate that etoposide may be a " new drug " when given in the chronic schedule . further exploration of the schedule dependency of etoposide is indicated . etoposide has recently been proven useful in selected patients with gastric , ovarian , and poorly differentiated carcinoma of unknown primary site . several other drugs are either synergistic or additive and will be explored in combination chemotherapy . the possibility of adding topoisomerase i inhibitors and modulating etoposide 's activity by inhibiting drug resistance is now within the realm of human testing . 
the clinical pharmacology of etoposide . etoposide , a semisynthetic derivative of podophyllotoxin , is increasingly used to treat cancer . etoposide is a phase-specific , cytotoxic drug acting in the late s and early g2 phases of the cell cycle . it appears to cause breaks in dna by either an interaction with dna-topoisomerase ii or the formation of free radicals . most studies show a biexponential decay after the intravenous ( iv ) administration of etoposide . the peak plasma concentrations of drug and the area under the concentration versus time curve ( auc ) are linearly related to the iv dose . considerable interpatient variability of pharmacokinetic variables exists after iv etoposide . various metabolites of etoposide have been identified , but their detection and quantitation are disputed . approximately 30 % to 70 % of an etoposide dose is excreted . the bioavailability of oral etoposide is approximately 50 % , but its absorption is not linear with increasing doses within the range in clinical use . considerable interpatient and intrapatient variability exists in the pharmacokinetics of oral etoposide . there is no evidence of etoposide accumulation after multiple consecutive doses by either the iv or oral route . the exact roles of the liver and kidney in metabolism and excretion of etoposide are uncertain . etoposide has been shown to be a highly schedule-dependent drug in clinical studies . this , together with the phase-specific action of etoposide and its increasingly widespread use in treating cancer , makes the clinical pharmacology of this drug of great clinical importance . 
diagnosis of noninfective cardiac mass lesions by two-dimensional echocardiography . comparison of the transthoracic and transesophageal approaches . this study was conducted in 46 patients with cardiac thrombi , 15 patients with atrial myxomas , and 32 patients with other cardiac or paracardiac tumors . diagnoses were subsequently proven by surgery , autopsy , computed tomography , magnetic resonance imaging , or angiography in all patients . all patients underwent precordial and transesophageal two-dimensional echocardiography to assess the various mass detection rates . atrial myxomas and predominantly left-sided cardiac tumors were identified by both echocardiographic techniques with comparable detection rates . left ventricular apical thrombi were detected more frequently by precordial echocardiography . in contrast , transesophageal echocardiography was superior in visualizing left atrial appendage thrombi , small and flat thrombi in the left atrial cavity , thrombi and tumors in the superior vena cava , and masses attached to the right heart and the descending thoracic aorta . these data indicate that transesophageal echocardiography leads to a clinically relevant improvement of the diagnostic potential in patients in whom cardiac masses are suspected or have to be excluded in order to ensure the safety of clinical procedures . 
effects of radiation therapy on skeletal growth in childhood . ionizing radiation was used to treat childhood cancer long before the advent of chemotherapy , and it took little time for physicians to appreciate the deleterious effects it had on skeletal growth . the cause of this complication results predominantly from alteration of chondroblastic activity . this may stem directly from irradiation at the epiphyseal plate or indirectly from irradiation of glands that secrete growth-mediating hormones . the complication can go far beyond the obvious physical afflictions and extend into the psychologic domain , rendering deeper , more permanent scars . presently , many of these effects are predictable , reducible , and treatable without compromising the cure that so often depends on the use of irradiation . because of the complexities of childhood cancer therapy , strategies aimed at diminishing these effects are challenging . it is imperative that these effects be understood so that they can be reduced in current patients and prevented in future patients . 
limb-salvage surgery in the treatment of osteosarcoma in skeletally immature individuals . sacrifice of major growth plates during resection and fixed-length reconstruction of a limb in a skeletally immature child with osteosarcoma may result in a significant limb-length inequality as growth progresses . a limb-length discrepancy in the humerus may cause minor cosmetic problems but does not generally result in a significant functional deficit . in the lower extremity , tumors about the knee , including the distal femur and proximal tibia , usually present the dilemma of whether limb salvage by arthrodesis , osteoarticular allograft , or endoprosthetic replacement would result in a significant limb-length inequality and whether amputation of the extremity is a preferable procedure . the techniques of rotationplasty and an expandable endoprosthesis have been successfully used for treating skeletally immature patients with osteosarcoma of the distal femur . with regard to survival and function , the results obtained with these innovative methods are favorable compared with those of a high above-knee amputation . 
the cellular biology of bone tumors . new knowledge in cell and molecular biology has begun to expand the understanding of the biology of osteosarcoma and ewing 's sarcoma . studies on osteosarcomas have revealed abnormalities in the growth-inhibiting retinoblastoma gene , which may release cells from normal growth control . abnormalities in growth factor production or response tend to inappropriately activate cell growth . tumor cell dna content and cytogenetics may affect the diagnosis and prognostic grouping of osteosarcomas . in ewing 's sarcomas , a characteristic translocation between chromosomes 11 and 22 has been identified ; this translocation is also found in malignant neuroepitheliomas . a variety of studies point to both neuroectodermal and mesenchymal origins for ewing 's sarcomas . applications of new biologic knowledge and technology to clinical problems will lead to significant changes in the diagnosis , and perhaps in the treatment , of these tumors in the coming years . collaborations between community and referral center physicians and scientists are critical for continued progress . 
osteoid osteoma of the scapula . a case report and review of the literature . the scapula is a rare location for osteoid osteoma , which in most cases does not involve the flat bones . the en bloc excision in this uncommon location can be problematic since the surgical exposure is difficult , and shoulder joint function can be affected if the lesion is subchondral . in an 18-year-old man , an osteoid osteoma was located in the subchondral area of the glenoid . a guided needle biopsy of the nidus resulted in complete healing . this mode of treatment , with proper follow-up examination , is acceptable for a benign lesion situated in a problematic location . 
autograft versus allograft for benign lesions in children . benign bone lesions in children are often so large in size that there is not an adequate amount of bone available for an autograft to fill the resultant cavity after surgical curettage . this study compared autografts and allografts with respect to the time required and the success of graft incorporation . fifty-four patients with 61 lesions were studied . lesions were classified as small volume ( less than 60 cc ) or large volume ( more than 60 cc ) and were separated into four groups : small-volume autograft , large-volume autograft , small-volume allograft , and large-volume allograft . allografts appeared comparable to autografts when small-volume lesions were treated . the healing time was slightly longer for allografts with an average period of 21 months versus 27 months for autografts . autografts were superior to allografts in rate and completeness of healing for solitary large lesions . this increased efficacy presumes a somewhat older child in which an adequate amount of bone is available for an autograft . a young child with multicentric or polyostotic lesions can still achieve successful incorporation with allografts . in this study , 38 % healed completely and 29 % healed partially . allografts have a distinct place in the treatment of benign bone lesions in children . 
cryosurgery and acrylic cementation as surgical adjuncts in the treatment of aggressive ( benign ) bone tumors . analysis of 25 patients below the age of 21 . this article reviews the clinical experience with cryosurgery ( use of liquid nitrogen ) and acrylic cementation ( polymethylmethacrylate ; pmma ) in the treatment of aggressive , benign bone sarcomas and the biologic basis of this technique . the results of 25 patients below the age of 21 treated by cryosurgery , with an average follow-up period of 60.8 months , are reported . three approaches to surgical reconstruction were used : group 1 ( four patients ) had cryosurgery with no reconstruction , group 2 ( 13 patients ) had bone graft reconstruction alone , and group 3 ( eight patients ) had composite osteosynthesis with internal fixation , bone graft , and/or pmma . the overall control rate was 96 % ( one recurrence ) . the tumor types were giant-cell tumor , chondroblastoma , aneurysmal bone cyst , and malignant giant-cell tumor . nineteen lesions involved the lower extremity , and six lesions were located in the upper extremity . there were two secondary fractures ( 8 % ) , one local flap necrosis , and one synovial fistula . there were no infections . two epiphyseodeses were performed . the functional results were excellent ( 83 % ) , good ( 13 % ) , and fair ( 4 % ) . the technique of composite osteosynthesis is recommended for all large tumors of the lower extremity . cryosurgical results compare favorably with those obtained by en bloc resection and demonstrate the ability of cryosurgery to eradicate tumors while avoiding the need for extensive resections and reconstructive procedures . 
chemotherapy for children with aggressive fibromatosis and langerhans ' cell histiocytosis . two disorders involving histologically benign proliferations of fibrous tissue or of histiocytes occur preferentially in children and often require combined management by an orthopedic surgeon and a pediatric oncologist . treatment of young people with aggressive fibromatosis usually begins with wide local excision of the lesion . however , some tumors can not be completely removed either because of their location or because of the risk of subsequent serious dysfunction . not infrequently , local recurrence supervenes despite previous wide local excision , and sometimes multiple tumors are present . in these situations a trial of multiple-agent chemotherapy incorporating vincristine , actinomycin d , and cyclophosphamide may be indicated in an attempt to control the disease . radiation therapy may also be useful , but the relatively high dose ( 5000 cgy or more ) needed in a growing child is at times a less attractive alternative . biopsy of a lytic bone lesion in young patients with langerhans ' cell histiocytosis , formerly known as histiocytosis x , is also indicated for initial diagnosis . biopsy and curettage are usually curative in the patient with an isolated lesion . patients with multiple simultaneous or recurrent lesions need chemotherapy if dysfunction of the liver , spleen , or lungs is present . drug therapy may also be beneficial for children with systemic symptoms . this article outlines suggestions for chemotherapeutic treatment in both diseases . 
limb reconstruction with vascularized fibular grafts after bone tumor resection . limb-salvage operations are being used with increasing frequency for patients with malignant bone tumors . for children , when a biologic reconstruction is desired , the choice is often between conventional and vascularized fibular grafts . an experimental study was performed in dogs to compare the two types of fibular grafts for bridging segmental defects in the radius and ulna . twenty-six adult dogs were divided into two groups and studied at intervals of two , three , four , six , and 12 months after transplantation . the conventional grafts healed by creeping substitution i.e. , they were first partially resorbed before new bone was laid down . in contrast , the vascularized fibulae maintained their normal structure and hypertrophied by subperiosteal new bone formation . the conventional fibulae eventually hypertrophied but much later than the vascularized grafts . the vascularized grafts were stronger at four and six months . between six and 12 months , both grafts remodeled to resemble the size and shape of the forearm bones they were replacing . these experimental results have influenced the treatment of patients . vascularized fibular grafts are ideal for diaphyseal defects greater than 10 cm long , especially in very young children , a poorly vascularized bed , or when bone healing is delayed by chemotherapeutic agents . to maximize hypertrophy , an external fixator is used to immobilize the graft rather than a plate , which acts as a stress shield . 
modified van nes rotationplasty in the treatment of malignant neoplasms in the lower extremities of children . a technique of modified van nes rotationplasty has been used since 1981 for limb salvage surgery in children and adolescents with malignant sarcoma of the lower extremity . the original procedure for lesions of the distal femur was further modified and adopted for selected lesions of the proximal femur and tibia . sixteen skeletally immature children form the base of this report . the tumors were located in the distal femur in ten children , the proximal tibia in five and the proximal femur in one . there were no intraoperative complications and postoperative complications included one infection requiring debridement and three minor healing delays . there were no local recurrences , neurovascular compromises , late derotations , or psychologic decompensations . one patient died of metastatic disease and another died of a second malignancy ( leukemia ) . the remaining patients are good , functional , below-knee prosthesis users who participate in a number of sporting and athletic activities . the procedure is safe , has a relatively low complication rate , allows for the functional demands of an active , growing child , and accommodates for the future growth of extremities . 
ewing 's sarcoma . prognostic factors , disease control , and the reemerging role of surgical treatment . advances in the treatment of ewing 's sarcoma have been dramatic . present treatment protocols control local disease by radiotherapy , surgery , or both ; systemic spread is limited by aggressive multiagent chemotherapy . in patients with localized osseous ewing 's sarcoma , five-year survival rates now range from 54 % to an estimated 74 % . with late relapse not uncommon , control of the primary lesion is critical to long-term survival . several studies now show improved local control and possibly improved survival of patients with surgical treatment of primary osseous ewing 's sarcoma . 
pulmonary metastases and bone sarcomas . surgical removal of lesions appearing after adjuvant chemotherapy . pulmonary metastasis is the leading cause of death in pediatric patients with bone tumors . multiple thoracotomies for surgical removal of individual lesions are performed at many centers . to explore the efficacy of this procedure and establish guidelines for an appropriate choice of patients , the experience with 43 thoracotomies in 24 children was reviewed . the appearance of first metastasis later than one year after diagnosis , presence of fewer than five nodules , and completeness of surgical resection were favorable predictors of postthoractomy survival . early or multiple metastases , unresectable disease , and hilar , nodal , or pleural lesions conferred an unfavorable prognosis . with careful patient selection , pulmonary metastecotomy is a safe procedure that has few operative or long-term complications . it must be emphasized that although surgical removal of pulmonary metastases prolongs survival with good quality of life , the majority of patients with bone sarcomas ultimately succumb to their disease after thoracotomy . follow-up time of greater than eight years is necessary to adequately assess the effectiveness of pulmonary resection in eradicating all disease in these patients . 
the effect of chemotherapy on growth in the skeletally immature individual . one hundred twenty-two children with nonmetastatic osteogenic or ewing 's sarcoma were studied to assess the effect of multiagent adjuvant chemotherapy on skeletal growth and final stature . no deviations from the height distributions of a normal population were noted at diagnosis . there was a marked retardation of linear growth during the year of intensive chemotherapy . only 15 % of the patients grew at the expected rate during that year . the distribution of nutritional status scores was significantly different at the end of the first year than at baseline . the distribution of ultimate height scores was significantly different than the baseline distribution . the overall final distribution was also significantly different from the normal population expectation . any absolute difference in height , however , is likely to be small . the subgroups that were observed to full adult stature showed mean heights of 162 cm for girls and 176 cm for boys . 
cardiac rhabdomyoma . rare cause of fetal death . two cases of nonimmune hydrops fetalis and fetal death associated with cardiac rhabdomyoma are reported . case 1 presented with fetal supraventricular tachycardia , and cardiac rhabdomyoma was accurately diagnosed by fetal echocardiography . autopsy revealed multiple rhabdomyomata involving the right atrial free wall , the sinoatrial node , and the left ventricle . the left circumflex coronary artery was extrinsically compressed by adjacent tumor tissue , causing left ventricular myocardial infarction . case 2 had a unique , pedunculated , ball-like rhabdomyoma that almost totally occluded the mitral orifice . the causes of fetal death in patients with cardiac rhabdomyoma are analyzed and the possibility of fetal surgical management is proposed . 
99mtc-anti-cea radioimmunoscintigraphy of lung adenocarcinoma . anti-carcinoembryonic antigen radioimmunoscintigraphy ( anti-cea ris ) in colorectal adenocarcinoma has been reported to allow a better estimation of the local tumor extension than other radiologic methods . this study evaluated the clinical feasibility of a 99mtc-labeled anti-cea monoclonal antibody ( bw 431/26 , behring institute , frg ) in 11 patients for staging of primary adenocarcinoma of the lung . the primary tumor size ranged from 3 to 8 cm with a mean of 4 cm . mediastinal and hilar nodes were present in four patients , intrapulmonary metastases were present in two patients , and pleural and liver metastases were present in one patient each . the cea levels were in the range of 2 to 265 ng/ml and elevated ( greater than 5 ng/ml ) in six patients . planar scintigraphy was performed at 6 h and 24 h post injection ( pi ) . analog and digitized images were interpreted by two observers . one patient was imaged twice and experienced serum sickness due to human anti-mouse antibodies ( hama ) after the second study , which showed marked unspecific tracer uptake in liver , spleen , and bone marrow , but no specific uptake by the tumor and was excluded from further analysis . visual interpretation identified the primary tumor clearly in seven patients . no tumor imaging was observed in two patients . two patients were classified as having questionable imaging due to a poor separation of tumor uptake from mediastinal blood pool . the primary tumor could be clearly delineated in both patients after comparison with the chest radiograph . thus , the overall sensitivity for imaging of the primary tumor was 82 percent . the average target/background ratio was 1.31 + / - 0.17:1 at 6 h pi , and 1.30 + / - 0.16:1 at 24 h pi . hilar and mediastinal nodes were correctly suspected in three patients , but the cardiac blood pool hampered a clear interpretation . intrapulmonary and pleural metastases were diagnosed in all cases . the single liver metastasis was missed because of the high unspecific tracer uptake . planar anti-cea ris with 99mtc bw 431/26 was superior to computed tomography ( ct ) in one case with subtotal tumor resection . we summarize that at present , planar anti-cea ris with 99mtc bw 431/26 can not be advised as a routine staging procedure in adenocarcinoma of the lung , but it may be helpful in the detection of residual or recurrent tumor tissue . 
pulmonary complications of combination therapy with cyclophosphamide and prednisone . oral cyclophosphamide and prednisone are standard treatment for some neoplasms and necrotizing systemic vasculitis and are advocated with increasing frequency for idiopathic interstitial lung disease . during a 15-month period , we observed four cases of acute respiratory failure from pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) in patients treated with oral cyclophosphamide and prednisone . one patient each had polyarteritis nodosa , wegener 's granulomatosis , bronchiolitis obliterans with organizing pneumonia , and chronic lymphocytic leukemia with red blood cell aplasia . hypoalbuminemia ( serum albumin level less than 3.0 g/dl ) and daily therapy were associated with increased risk for development of pcp ( p less than 0.05 ) . none of the patients had leukopenia ( less than 3,500 / cu mm ) or neutropenia ( less than 1,000 / cumm ) at diagnosis . all were negative for the human immunodeficiency virus . patients receiving oral cyclophosphamide and prednisone may be at higher or increasing risk for pcp . a high index of suspicion and aggressive evaluation for opportunistic infection are needed in these patients ; consideration for trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole prophylaxis and development of more quantitative measures of immunosuppression are needed . 
minute squamous cell carcinoma arising in the wall of a congenital lung cyst . a case of minute squamous cell carcinoma arising in a congenital lung cyst is reported . two aspects of this case were notable . first , we were able to make the diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma by bronchial lavage at an early stage . second , to our knowledge , this is the first case of probable de novo origin of squamous cell carcinoma in a congenital lung cyst . 
complications of general anesthesia for nd : yag laser resection of endobronchial tumors . we studied the incidence and mechanisms of cardiovascular complications and postoperative respiratory insufficiency associated with ga and nd : yag laser endobronchial tumor resection . the records of 73 patients undergoing 87 procedures were reviewed . preoperative status , anesthetic methods and perioperative complications were analyzed by multiple regression to determine predictors of outcome . twenty-three percent of patients had greater than 90 percent mainstem bronchus obstruction . longer serum elimination half-life of relaxant drug was significantly correlated with longer duration of mechanical ventilation after neuromuscular blockade reversal . cardiovascular complications were noted in 24 procedures and often required therapeutic intervention . variables predicting cardiovascular complications included longer duration of ga and increasing age . perioperative respiratory and cardiovascular complications are common after ga for nd : yag laser resection . short-acting neuromuscular relaxants , careful assessment prior to postoperative extubation , limiting duration of ga and cardiovascular monitoring are recommended when implementing ga for nd : yag laser resection of endobronchial tumors . 
zollinger-ellison syndrome . relation to helicobacter pylori-associated chronic gastritis and gastric acid secretion . since helicobacter pylori infects the gastric mucosa in most patients with chronic duodenal ulcer , infection with this organism has been implicated in the pathogenesis of this common disease . we postulated that if h. pylori is pathogenic in the usual type of duodenal ulcer , it should be less common when duodenal ulcer has another , specific etiology , such as zollinger-ellison syndrome . gastric mucosa was compared from 18 patients with proven zollinger-ellison syndrome ( 17 of whom had had duodenal ulcer disease ) and 18 controls with chronic duodenal ulcer without such a diagnosis . all subjects , who were matched for age and sex , had undergone elective gastric resections . gastric tissues were stained by hematoxylin-eosin and giemsa and were reviewed by an experienced pathologist who was unaware of the diagnosis . the frequency of h. pylori in patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome ( 8/18 ) was lower than in controls with duodenal ulcer ( 16/18 ; p less than 0.02 ) . moreover , chronic antral gastritis scores were higher in patients with duodenal ulcer ( p less than 0.01 ) . in zollinger-ellison syndrome , peak acid output was lower in patients positive ( median 22 meq/30 min ) compared to those negative for h. pylori ( median 32 meq/30 min ; p less than 0.02 ) but serum gastrin was correspondingly lower in patients positive for h. pylori ( p less than 0.05 ) . h. pylori infection appears to be more frequent when duodenal ulceration is not associated with another etiology , such as acid hypersecretion in zollinger-ellison syndrome . h. pylori infection in zollinger-ellison syndrome may also be associated with decreased gastric acid secretion . 
helicobacter pylori and zollinger-ellison syndrome . helicobacter pylori ( previously campylobacter pylori ) is almost invariably associated with chronic duodenal ulcer disease . the relationship between h. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer in zollinger-ellison syndrome is unknown . we investigated the frequency of h. pylori infection in zollinger-ellison syndrome and also what effect h. pylori infection had on gastric function in patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome . h. pylori infection was diagnosed based on a specific serologic ( elisa ) assay based on high-molecular-weight cell-associated proteins of h. pylori . we studied 20 patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome ; 15 men and 5 women ranging in age from 24 to 71 years , median age 51 . six zollinger-ellison syndrome patients had h. pylori infection compared to 100 consecutive patients with chronic recurrent duodenal ulcer disease ( p less than 0.05 ) . pretreatment basal acid output in zollinger-ellison syndrome patients ranged from 7.9 to 95.0 mmol/hr , median 35.2 . pentagastrin-stimulated maximal acid output ranged from 8.5 to 132 mmol/hr ; median 52.7 . acid secretion was lower in the h. pylori-infected patients than the uninfected patients ( bao 24.5 + / - 6.5 vs 45.4 + / - 6.6 , and mao 44.3 + / - 11.8 vs 67.9 + / - 10.7 , for h. pylori infected vs uninfected patients , respectively ) . the difference in bao was statistically significant ( p less than 0.05 ) . the present results indicate that h. pylori is not a major contributing factor in duodenal ulcer associated with zollinger-ellison syndrome . the association of a reduced bao with h. pylori suggests that these findings may be related . 
peptic ulcer perforation as the presentation of zollinger-ellison syndrome . we examined the characteristics of patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome who developed a perforation prior to diagnosis to determine whether any clinical features were useful markers of the syndrome . of 160 patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome , perforation occurred prior to the diagnosis being made in 11 ( 7 % ) . at surgery , perforations were found in the duodenum in six cases and in the jejunum in five . in no case was tumor identified at emergency surgery , and the diagnosis of zollinger-ellison syndrome was made only in the postoperative period when excessive gastric secretions were noted . neither acid output nor serum gastrin concentration were useful predictors for perforation . the patients , six men and five women , were 27-61 years old ( median 48 ) and one had men-1 . three patients had no symptoms prior to the perforation . the other eight had symptoms for 1-15 years , with diarrhea occurring in 45 % of the cases . following the diagnosis of zollinger-ellison syndrome , patients were given medication to control gastric acid hypersecretion . eight patients remained well , but the three patients who had had a partial gastrectomy had a complicated course despite medical therapy . although features of perforation in zollinger-ellison syndrome are not specific , jejunal perforation or perforation associated with a history of diarrhea is suggestive of the diagnosis . serum gastrin should be measured in every case and a partial gastrectomy avoided . 
partial gastric corpectomy results in hypergastrinemia and development of gastric enterochromaffinlike-cell carcinoids in the rat . studies in the rat have shown that partial gastric corpectomy , in which about 75 % of the acid-producing oxyntic mucosa was removed , leads to markedly reduced acid secretion and a feedback increase in the plasma gastrin levels . ten weeks after operation , the gastric enterochromaffin ( ecl ) - like cell density in the remaining part of the oxyntic mucosa had increased significantly . in the present study , the effects on the gastric ecl cells of lifelong persistent hypergastrinemia induced by partial ( 75 % ) corpectomy have been investigated . seventy-five partially corpectomized rats and 40 control rats were investigated for plasma gastrin and oxyntic mucosal changes in a 124-week study . the partially corpectomized rats showed increased plasma gastrin levels after the operation ; the mean increase compared with the controls was almost 10-fold during the entire study . the remaining oxyntic mucosa of the partially corpectomized rats differed from that of control rats in two respects , showing first general hypertrophy and second a marked hyperplasia of argyrophil ecl cells . the degree and incidence of these changes increased towards the end of the study , i.e. , in the aging rats . an age-related increase in ecl-cell density occurred spontaneously also in the control rats but to a lesser extent than in the partially corpectomized group . ecl-cell carcinoids were found in the oxyntic mucosa of 26 of the 75 partially corpectomized rats . the first carcinoid was found 78 weeks after the beginning of the study . six rats with carcinoids ( 23 % ) were found before week 104 ( 2 years ) and the remainder , 20 ( 77 % ) , were discovered later . no carcinoid tumor was found in the control rats . it is concluded that lifelong hypergastrinemia induced by partial corpectomy leads to the development of ecl-cell carcinoids in the oxyntic mucosa of some rats towards the end of their life span . this observation strongly supports the hypothesis that the gastric ecl-cell carcinoids found in rats treated with antisecretory drugs are caused by long-standing hypergastrinemia developing secondary to inhibition of gastric acid secretion . 
patterns of growth and metastases of induced pancreatic cancer in relation to the prognosis and its clinical implications . to understand high malignancy of pancreatic cancer , the growth and metastatic patterns of pancreatic cancer induced in syrian hamsters were examined . in this model , induced tumors resemble the human disease morphologically , clinically , biologically , and immunologically . in the current study , primary-induced cancer and transplants of pancreatic cancer cell line ( pc-1 ) into the sc tissue or pancreas of homologous hosts were used . in the primary-induced pancreatic cancer , perineural invasion was the most common path ( 88 % ) , followed by lymphogenic ( 31 % ) or vascular ( 2 % ) metastases . inoculation of pc-1 cells into the pancreas resulted in 100 % tumor take within 3 weeks . of 19 intrapancreatic allografts , all showed peritoneal invasion , 5 ( 26 % ) liver metastases , 3 ( 16 % ) lymph node metastases , 17 ( 89 % ) perineural invasion , and none vascular invasion . even microscopic tumors were found to metastasize primarily via perineural spaces . it was also demonstrated , for the first time , that cancer cells take this route to reach distant tissues , including the lymph nodes . intraductal spreading occurred in both primary cancers and intrapancreatic allografts either continuously or discontinuously . the patterns of discontinuous intraductal tumor expansion imitated tumor multicentricity . although perineural invasion was the most common feature of primary cancer and intrapancreatic allografts , lymphatic , hepatic , and vascular invasion and metastases usually occurred in advanced cases . environmental factors seem to influence expansion and metastases , as evidenced by differences in growth and in metastatic patterns between sc and intrapancreatic allografts . 
granulocytic sarcoma of the colon . granulocytic sarcoma is an extramedullary tumor consisting of immature cells of the granulocytic series known to occur in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome , chronic myelogenous leukemia , or acute myelogenous leukemia . this tumor may involve nodes , cervix , bone and periosteum , and infrequently the small intestine . granulocytic sarcoma rarely occurs in the colon and has not been previously described endoscopically . we encountered a 73-year-old man with myelodysplastic syndrome who presented with fever , diarrhea , and abdominal pain . colonoscopic evaluation ( focal ulceration , friability , and nodularity ) was compatible with crohn 's disease , although histology showed a dense myeloid cell infiltrate characteristic of granulocytic sarcoma . in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome or acute or chronic myelogenous leukemia presenting with diarrhea , abdominal pain , and/or fever , colonoscopy and biopsy are indicated to determine if the colon is affected by granulocytic sarcoma . 
hyperplastic polyps seen at sigmoidoscopy are markers for additional adenomas seen at colonoscopy . asymptomatic individuals undergoing screening flexible sigmoidoscopy were prospectively studied . polyps were found in 185 subjects . the endoscopist recorded an opinion on the polyps ' histology based on endoscopic appearance . no polyps were removed at sigmoidoscopy . all subjects with rectosigmoid polyps then underwent colonoscopy and polypectomy . of them , 99 subjects ( 54 % ) had at least one rectosigmoid adenoma , 69 ( 37 % ) had only hyperplastic polyps , and 17 ( 9 % ) had other findings . the endoscopists ' opinion of the histopathology of polyps at sigmoidoscopy was correct for 61 % of the lesions . of subjects with adenomatous rectosigmoid polyps , 29 % had additional adenomas at more proximal sites . proximal adenomas were found in 28 % of patients with hyperplastic rectosigmoid polyps . patients with rectosigmoid hyperplastic polyps had the same risk for additional proximal adenomas as patients with rectosigmoid adenomatous polyps . 
carotid artery resection and replacement in patients with head and neck malignant tumors . tumor involvement of the carotid artery with head and neck cancers may be present either simultaneously with the primary lesion or more often appears at a later date following resection of the primary tumor . management of the secondary tumor consists of its resection together with the involved carotid artery with or without carotid artery reconstruction . the authors are convinced that the best chance for cure of patients with advanced head and neck squamous cell cancers involving the carotid artery is radical extirpation with ablative surgery in the form of en block resection of the primary lesion , the secondary tumor , and the involved carotid artery followed by immediate revascularization . this bold approach was carried out in two male patients , 48 and 61 years of age , followed by chemotherapy and radiation therapy in one and radiation therapy alone in the other , with excellent results . dermal grafts were placed over the entire length of the arterialized veins to protect them from radiation injury . based on this limited experience and excellent results , we recommend this one-stage surgical ablative procedure in well selected patients . however , cooperation between the ent and vascular surgeons , strict adherence to the principles and techniques of vascular surgery , and coverage of the arterialized vein with a dermal graft is absolutely essential . 
thrombin stimulates tumor-platelet adhesion in vitro and metastasis in vivo . recent studies have revealed a role for platelets and the platelet-adhesive proteins , fibronectin and von willebrand factor ( vwf ) in platelet-tumor cell interaction in vitro and metastasis in vivo . the present report documents the effect of thrombin treatment of platelets on this interaction in vitro and in vivo . in vitro , thrombin at 100-1 ,000 mu/ml maximally stimulated the adhesion of six different tumor cell lines from three different species two - to fivefold . as little as 1-10 mu/ml was effective . the effect of thrombin was specific ( inhibitable by hirudin , dansyl-arginine n - ( 3-ethyl-1 ,5 pentanediyl ) amide and unreactive with the inactive thrombin analogue n-p-tosyl-l-phenylchloromethylketone-thrombin and d-phenylalanyl-l-propyl-l-arginine chloromethylketone-thrombin ( ppack-thrombin ) , and required high-affinity thrombin receptors ( competition with ppack-thrombin but not with n-p-tosyl-l-lysine-chloromethyl-ketone-thrombin ) . functionally active thrombin was required on the platelet surface . binding of tumor cells to thrombin-activated platelets was inhibitable by agents known to interfere with the platelet gpiib-gpiiia integrin : monoclonal antibody 10e5 , tetrapeptide rgds and gamma chain fibrinogen decapeptide lggakqagdv , as well as polyclonal antibodies against the platelet adhesive ligands , fibronectin and vwf . in vivo , thrombin at 250-500 mu per animal increased murine pulmonary metastases fourfold with ct26 colon carcinoma cells and 68-413-fold with b16 amelanotic melanoma cells . thus , thrombin amplifies tumor-platelet adhesion in vitro two - to fivefold via occupancy of high-affinity platelet thrombin receptors , and modulation of gpiib-gpiiia adhesion via an rgd-dependent mechanism . in vivo , thrombin enhances tumor metastases 4-413-fold with two different tumor cell lines . 
the growth inhibition of human breast cancer cells by a novel synthetic progestin involves the induction of transforming growth factor beta . recent experimental work has identified a novel intracellular binding site for the synthetic progestin , gestodene , that appears to be uniquely expressed in human breast cancer cells . gestodene is shown here to inhibit the growth of human breast cancer cells in a dose-dependent fashion , but has no effect on endocrine-responsive human endometrial cancer cells . gestodene induced a 90-fold increase in the secretion of transforming growth factor-beta ( tgf-beta ) by t47d human breast cancer cells . other synthetic progestins had no effect , indicating that this induction is mediated by the novel gestodene binding site and not by the conventional progesterone receptor . furthermore , in four breast cancer cell lines , the extent of induction of tgf-beta correlated with intracellular levels of gestodene binding site . no induction of tgf-beta was observed with the endometrial cancer line , hecl-b , which lacks the gestodene binding site , but which expresses high levels of progesterone receptor . the inhibition of growth of t47d cells by gestodene is partly reversible by a polyclonal antiserum to tgf-beta . these data indicate that the growth-inhibitory action of gestodene may be mediated in part by an autocrine induction of tgf-beta . 
coexpression of two fibronectin receptors , vla-4 and vla-5 , by immature human erythroblastic precursor cells . human erythroblastic precursor cells adhere to fibronectin ( fn ) but the exact nature of the receptors mediating this interaction has not been characterized . in this study , we report data showing that immature human erythroblasts express the integrins vla-4 and vla-5 and that both these molecules act as fibronectin receptors on these cells . we have recently demonstrated that adhesion to fn of purified human cfu-e and their immediate progeny preproerythroblasts was inhibited by antibodies directed against the human fibronectin receptor ( vla-5 ) . here we have extended those results and characterized by immunoprecipitation with specific antibodies the integrins expressed on surface-labeled normal human immature erythroblasts . a polyclonal antibody recognizing the common vla beta 1 subunit yielded two polypeptides of 120 and 160 kd . our data further demonstrate that the polypeptide of 160 kd contains alpha subunits corresponding to both alpha 4 and alpha 5 . thus , erythroblast lysates prepared in 0.3 % chaps and immunoprecipitated with antibodies which specifically recognize the alpha 4 subunit showed a heterodimer with peptides of 120 ( beta 1 ) and 160 kd ( alpha 4 ) and the additional peptides of 70 and 80 kd which usually coprecipitate with the alpha 4 chain . on the other hand , specific anti-alpha 5 antibodies immunoprecipitated an alpha 5/beta 1 complex with peptides of 120 and 160 kd which under reducing conditions migrated as a single band of 130 kd . similar experiments performed with an erythroleukemic cell line ( ku 812 ) showed that these cells also coexpress both the vla-4 and vla-5 members of the integrin family . furthermore , monoclonal antibodies recognizing the vla alpha 4 chain blocked the adhesion of immature erythroblasts to fn-coated surfaces , thus demonstrating that , as vla-5 , vla-4 is also a functional fn receptor on these cells . 
use of cytoplasmic 5 ' nucleotidase for differentiating malignant from benign monoclonal gammopathies . bone marrow smears from 15 patients with multiple myeloma , 15 patients with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance ( mgus ) , and 15 control subjects were examined for the presence of cytoplasmic 5 ' nucleotidase ( c5nt ) in plasma cells . plasma cell positivity for c5nt ( mean and 95 % confidence interval ) in patients with multiple myeloma numbered 46.4 % ( 38.0-54 .8 % ) , in those with mgus it was 15.3 % ( 11.1-19 .6 % ) , and in control subjects it was 1.2 % ( 0.3-2 .1 % ) . these findings indicate that c5nt can be used to differentiate benign from malignant monoclonal gammopathies . 
immunohistochemical demonstration of pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor in normal and neoplastic colonic mucosa . specimens of normal and neoplastic colonic mucosa from 52 patients were analysed by immunohistochemistry using a monospecific polyclonal antiserum against human pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor ( psti ) . in normal colonic mucosa psti was found in the goblet cells in the basal parts of the crypts . in adenomas of tubular , villous , and tubulo-villous types psti was also found in the upper parts of the polyps , usually occurring in the regeneration zone . there was a more intense staining reaction in polyps with increased atypia . carcinomas of different types and of various grades of differentiation and of in situ type did not contain psti . these findings indicate that psti could be a marker for adenomatous rather than carcinomatous epithelium in the colon . furthermore , the absence of the inhibitor in malignant cells might facilitate tissue invasion by malignant cells because of deficient protease inhibition . 
human papillomavirus in oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma . thirty seven cases of oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma were studied by applying dna slot blot analysis and in situ hybridisation using type specific probes for hpv 6 , 11 , 16 and 18 . cases of condyloma accuminata , cervical carcinoma , and laryngeal papilloma were used as controls . blocks including areas of invasive carcinoma , intraepithelial neoplasia , and normal epithelium were studied in each case . no hpv genome was detectable in any of the oesophageal cases . it is concluded that these types of hpv do not have an association with oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma . 
detection and typing of human papillomavirus using the vira type " in situ " kit : comparison with a conventional dot blot technique . a new commercial kit ( vira type " in situ " , life technologies , inc. , molecular diagnostics division , guithersburg , maryland , usa ) for the detection of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) types 6 , 11 , 16 , 18 , 31 , 33 and 35 in routinely processed human anogenital tissue was compared with a conventional dot blot assay for hpv 6 , 11 , 16 and 18 . both systems use double-stranded genomic dna probes for the detection of type specific hpv dna . the probes used on the dot blots were labelled with 32p and visualised autoradiographically . the vira type probes were labelled with biotin and visualised using a streptavidin-alkaline phosphatase conjugate with nbt-bcip substrate . biopsy specimens from the cervix , vagina , and vulva of 46 women were processed by both methods and compared . the histological diagnoses ranged from benign changes , to dysplasia , and invasive carcinoma . overall , 50 % of biopsy specimens were positive for hpv dna by dot blot hybridisation ; only 39 % were positive by vira type in situ hybridisation . three of the specimens positive by the vira type " in situ " kit showed no cross hybridisation and were the same hpv type as the dot blot . a further 13 showed hybridisation , but the showed cross hybridisation , but the to the dot blot results . one biopsy specimen was positive for different hpv types by the two tests and one was positive by vira type and negative by dot blot . six biopsy specimens were negative by vira type but positive by dot blot . it is concluded that the vira type " in situ " kit has a similar specificity but lower sensitivity than the dot blot hybridisation method for the detection of hpv dna . 
detection of human papillomavirus type 16 dna in carcinomas of the palatine tonsil . twenty eight tonsillar carcinomas of various histological types were investigated for the presence of epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) , cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) , and human papillomavirus ( hpv ) types 6 , 11 , and 16 by in situ hybridisation using highly stringent procedures . in six cases an autoradiographic signal was obtained in the tumour cell nuclei with the hpv type 16 specific probe . no signal was obtained with any of the other probes . immunohistochemical investigations with mouse monoclonal antibodies directed against the l1 protein of hpv type and a rabbit antiserum that detects common protein determinants of hpv gave negative results , thus indicating latent infection . furthermore , a series of tonsils from controls with comparable age distribution was negative by both in situ hybridisation and immunohistology . these results indicate a possible role for hpv 16 in the aetiology of a proportion of tonsillar carcinomas . 
measurement techniques for melanoma : a statistical comparison inter - and intra-observer variation in measuring the depth of invasion of malignant melanomas was assessed using three different techniques : eye-piece graticule , stage vernier , and projection image analysis . significant variation was found for all methods but was least pronounced with the stage vernier . it is recommended that this should be the preferred technique for routine use . 
bone marrow stromal cell changes in haematological malignancies . stromal cell numbers from subjects with no haematological disease and those with acute myeloid leukaemia ( aml ) , chronic granulocytic leukaemia ( cgl ) , acute lymphatic leukaemia ( all ) and non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( nhl ) were compared to determine their role in malignancy . frozen sections of trephine biopsy specimens from iliac crests were stained for endogenous alkaline phosphatase activity , endogenous acid phosphatase activity , and , using immunocytochemical methods , for endothelial cells ( anti-factor-viii related antigen ) and macrophages and related cells ( ebm/11 ) . in granulocytic malignancies , whether acute or chronic , alkaline phosphatase positive reticulum cells ( al-rc ) and vascular endothelial cells were generally increased . in lymphoid malignancies , the numbers of al-rc were generally reduced . numbers of vascular endothelial cells seemed to be normal in all but reduced in foci of nhl . macrophages are numerous in normal marrow , and their numbers seemed to be normal in granulocytic lesions but were more variable and sometimes reduced in all and nhl . lymphoid malignancies , therefore , have a destructive effect on some stromal elements ; granulocytic malignancies are associated with normal or increased numbers of stromal cells . a possible consequence of depleted stromal cells might be slower reconstitution of normal haemopoiesis after treatment . the large numbers in granulocytic malignancies raises the possibility of synergistic stimulation between stromal and neoplastic cells . 
cartilage removal prior to skin grafting in the triangular fossa , antihelix , and concha of the ear . skin grafting onto a large area of exposed ear cartilage with irregular contours poses an increased risk of inadequate re-establishment of circulation . removal of cartilage not needed for structural support before grafting following mohs surgery on the triangular fossa , antihelix , and concha of the ear decreases the risk of recurrence of the carcinoma , and increases the chances for survival of the graft . 
mohs micrographic surgery fixed-tissue technique for melanoma of the nose . mohs micrographic surgery , fixed-tissue technique , for excision of nasal melanoma provides three important benefits : 1 ) assurance of eradication of the main mass along with its " silent " contiguous outgrowths , 2 ) safe management of non-contiguous satellites too small to be visible initially , and 3 ) safe sparing of maximal amounts of surrounding normal tissues . these benefits are achieved because all incisions are through chemically fixed ( killed ) tissue , eliminating the danger of disseminating the highly transplantable melanoma cells and permitting the excision of successive layers for microscopic scanning of their undersurfaces by the systematic use of frozen sections . the process is continued to the termination of each ramification . there is no need to remove a wide margin of normal tissue as is customary with conventional surgery . clinically invisible satellites are not moved or disturbed and can be removed safely by the same method if they appear . the reliability of the method is manifested by the 62.5 % 5-year cure in a series of 10 consecutive patients , all of whom had no local recurrence after micrographic surgery . 
razor-blade surgery . the razor blade can be a valuable tool in the performance of many minor surgical procedures . it is extremely sharp , flexible , inexpensive , readily available , and easy to use . the technique and specific applications are reviewed and discussed . 
fine-needle aspiration for diagnosis of intranodal squamous-cell carcinoma metastatic from the skin . fine-needle aspiration is a useful way to determine the presence of squamous-cell carcinoma in enlarged lymph nodes of patients at high risk for metastases . advantages include a high degree of accuracy , outpatient as well as inpatient availability , and negligible potential for seeding of malignant cells . cutaneous oncologists should consider using this technique in patients with lymphadenopathy and a previous history of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma . 
basal cell carcinoma arising in pemphigus vulgaris of the lower eyelid . a 59-year-old woman on continuous treatment with corticosteroids and immunosuppressive drugs for pemphigus vulgaris of 14 year 's duration presented with an enlarging nodular lesion on the right lower eyelid . the neoplasm , diagnosed as basal cell carcinoma , was excised conserving the lid margin , and eyelid reconstruction was done with a rotated cheek flap . wound healing proceeded without complications in spite of immunosuppressive treatment , and the final cosmetic and functional result was satisfactory . 
elevated serum concentrations of ige antibodies to environmental antigens in hiv-seropositive male homosexuals . forty-five homosexual male subjects with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection , who received care during a 4-month period in an ambulatory center for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , were classified according to their principal presentation with characteristic secondary infections ( cdc group iv c , n = 28 ) , cancers ( iv d , n = 10 ) , or limited or no symptoms ( groups ii , iii , iv a , or iv b , n = 7 ) . the incidence of allergic rhinitis and conjunctivitis increased after hiv seroconversion by approximately twofold in patients of groups iv c and iv d. the mean serum concentration of ige was significantly higher for group iv c than for the other hiv-seropositive groups and for a control group of 45 hiv-seronegative homosexual male subjects from the same community who were studied concurrently . more patients in groups iv c and iv d had positive rasts for a panel of environmental antigens than patients in the other hiv-seropositive groups and the hiv-seronegative control group . patients with aids presenting with typical secondary infections thus have a high frequency of some clinical and laboratory manifestations of allergic diseases . 
continuous infusion carboplatin on a 21-day schedule : a phase i and pharmacokinetic study . a phase i study with continuous infusion carboplatin for 21 days every 6 weeks using a venous access port and portable pump was performed over a dose range of 12 to 32 mg/m2/d , with increments of 2 mg/m2/d . forty-four patients received 107 courses ( median , two ; range , one to nine ) . world health organization ( who ) grade iii/iv leukopenia and thrombocytopenia occurred in one of seven patients at 30 mg/m2/d , and in two of six and four of six patients at 32 mg/m2/d . cumulative platelet depression was found at dose levels of 28 mg/m2/d or more . median glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) and effective renal plasma flow , monitored by radioisotope clearances at doses greater than or equal to 20 mg/m2/d , decreased 8.2 % ( p less than .05 ) and 10.9 % ( p less than .01 ) after two courses . there was a relationship ( r = .50 , p less than .0002 ) between the percentage of platelet depression and gfr . no other toxicity was observed . of the 17 patients who were evaluable , one complete response and four partial responses were observed . in addition , six patients had stable disease . pharmacokinetic analysis of total and ultrafiltrable platinum ( ufpt ) was performed by atomic absorption spectrophotometry . steady-state plasma levels for ufpt were reached after 8 hours . these levels could be detected from the 20 mg/m2/d dose . during steady state , carboplatin dose and ufpt plasma levels were not correlated , but steady-state ufpt and gfr ( r = -.27 , p less than .05 ) were . twenty-four percent of total platinum ( pt ) was present as ufpt during steady state ( x = 160 + / - 10 micrograms/l ) . total body clearance of ufpt exceeded gfr 2.2 times . mean area under the curve ( auc ) for ufpt during continuous infusion was 4,921.8 + / - 301.72 mg.min / l. for total pt , steady-state plasma levels were not reached ; total pt plasma levels increased between day 7 and day 21 ( p less than .0001 ) . there was a significant relation between total pt serum levels day 7 , 14 , and 21 and the drug dose administered . immunohistochemical analysis of dna-bound pt in leukocytes showed a linear increase from day 7 to day 14 to day 21 ( r = .97 ) between dna-bound pt and duration of infusion in individual patients . the maximum-tolerable dose of carboplatin is 30 mg/m2/d for 21 days ( total dose 630 mg/m2 ) and is recommended for phase ii studies . 
cardiopulmonary resuscitation and the patient with cancer . the records of 114 cancer patients suffering cardiopulmonary arrests ( cpa ) during a 3-year period at memorial sloan-kettering cancer center ( mskcc ) were retrospectively reviewed to identify variables predicting final outcome in these patients . although 65.7 % of the patients were successfully resuscitated , only 12 ( 10.5 % ) were discharged alive from the hospital . median survival after discharge was 150 days . by univariate and multivariate analysis , the only variable predicting the likelihood of a patient 's being discharged alive after a cpa was the performance status of the patient at the time of admission to the hospital . thus , a patient spending more than 50 % of the time in bed at the time of admission had only a 2.3 % chance of being discharged alive after cpa . a thorough discussion of these findings between physicians and patients and their families is strongly recommended at the time of admission to spare cancer patients unnecessary invasive resuscitative procedures . 
high survival rate in advanced-stage b-cell lymphomas and leukemias without cns involvement with a short intensive polychemotherapy : results from the french pediatric oncology society of a randomized trial of 216 children . from april 1984 to december 1987 , the french pediatric oncology society ( sfop ) organized a randomized trial for advanced-stage b-cell lymphoma without cns involvement to study the possibility of reducing the length of treatment to 4 months . after receiving the same three intensive six-drug induction courses based on high-dose fractionated cyclophosphamide , high-dose methotrexate ( hd mtx ) , and cytarabine in continuous infusion , patients were evaluated for remission . those who achieved complete remission ( cr ) were randomized between a long arm ( five additional courses with two additional drugs ; 16 weeks of treatment ) and a short arm ( two additional courses ; 5 weeks ) . for patients in partial remission ( pr ) , intensification of treatment was indicated . two hundred sixteen patients were registered : 15 stage ii nasopharyngeal and extensive facial tumors , 167 stage iii , and 34 stage iv , 20 of the latter having more than 25 % blast cells in bone marrow . the primary sites of involvement were abdomen in 172 , head and neck in 30 , thorax in two , and other sites in 12 . one hundred sixty-seven patients are alive in first cr with a minimum follow-up of 18 months ; four are lost to follow-up . eight patients died from initial treatment failure , 14 died from toxicity or deaths unrelated to tumor or treatment , and 27 relapsed . the event-free survival ( efs ) , with a median follow-up of 38 months , is 78 % ( se 3 ) for all the patients , 73 % ( se 11 ) for the stage ii patients , 80 % ( se 3 ) for the stage iii patients , and 68 % ( se 8 ) for the stage iv and acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) patients . one hundred sixty-six patients were randomized : 82 in the short arm and 84 in the long arm . efs is , respectively , 89 % and 87 % . statistical analysis confirms equivalence of both treatment arms with regard to efs . moreover , morbidity was lower in the short arm . this study confirms the high survival rate obtained in the previous lmb 0281 study without radiotherapy or debulking surgery and demonstrates the effectiveness of short treatment . 
hic-com : a 2-month intensive chemotherapy regimen for children with stage iii and iv burkitt 's lymphoma and b-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia . we designed a protocol that included 2 months of intensive cytoxan ( cyclophosphamide ; bristol-myers co , evansville , in ) , high-dose methotrexate ( mtx ) , high-dose cytarabine ( ara-c ) , and vincristine ( hic-com ) to improve event-free survival ( efs ) for patients with advanced-stage burkitt 's lymphoma and b-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) . we also wished to test the feasibility of rapidly cycling cytoxan and high-dose ara-c based on signs of early marrow recovery . twenty patients including 12 with stage iii burkitt 's lymphoma and eight with stage iv burkitt 's lymphoma or b-cell all were entered onto this pilot study . the rate of complete remission was 95 % . four patients have relapsed . the 2-year actuarial efs was 75 % ( median follow-up , 37 months ) . two of the initial five patients developed transverse myelitis , which we believe may have been secondary to the concomitant administration of intrathecal ( it ) and high-dose systemic ara-c . we conclude that this short but intensive regimen is highly effective for patients with advanced burkitt 's lymphoma and b-cell all . efs has improved over previous less intensive regimens , and is comparable to regimens of longer duration . 
a phase ii study of combined methotrexate and teniposide infusions prior to reinduction therapy in relapsed childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia : a pediatric oncology group study . teniposide ( vm-26 ) can increase intracellular methotrexate ( mtx ) and its polyglutamate derivatives in vitro and thus has the potential to improve the therapeutic index of regimens containing mtx . in this phase ii study , children and adolescents with acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) in first or second marrow relapse were randomly assigned to receive either simultaneous ( n = 11 ) or sequential ( n = 12 ) continuous infusions of mtx and vm-26 prior to reinduction . infusions of vm-26 were begun 12 hours after completion of mtx infusion in the sequential group . dosages were individually adjusted to maintain plasma concentration levels of 10 microns for mtx and 15 microns for vm-26 ; total infusion times were 24 and 72 hours , respectively . significant toxicity in the first six patients who received the scheduled 72-hour vm-26 infusion ( including one drug-related death ) prompted a 50 % reduction in infusion duration . the reduced dose was associated with similar but more manageable toxicity . examination of bone marrow aspirates 10 days after therapy was begun showed one complete and two partial marrow remissions ; a fourth patient who had an aplastic marrow on day 10 received no further chemotherapy and had a complete remission ( cr ) documented on day 31 . there was no obvious clinical advantage associated with either infusion schedule , although small sample sizes preclude definitive conclusions . the 17 % response rate to the mtx/vm -26 therapeutic window in patients with refractory disease suggests the need for further investigation to evaluate alternative schedules and concomitant therapy for this drug combination . 
comparison of neuropsychologic functioning and clinical indicators of neurotoxicity in long-term survivors of childhood leukemia given cranial radiation or parenteral methotrexate : a prospective study . we prospectively compared neuropsychologic functioning and clinical indicators of neurotoxicity in 49 consecutive childhood leukemia patients in long-term continuous complete remission ( cr ) who had received two different regimens of cns prophylaxis by random assignment . twenty-three patients were treated with 1,800 cgy cranial radiation and intrathecal methotrexate ( rt group ) and 26 with parenteral methotrexate only ( mtx group ) . over half of the rt group had somnolence syndrome , and four developed cerebral calcifications late in their clinical course . abnormal electroencephalograms ( eegs ) were seen in 15 patients in the mtx group , and six had early , transient white-matter hypodensities apparent on computed tomographic ( ct ) scans . mean scores on standard tests of intelligence and academic achievement , administered after remission induction and again at a median of 6 years after treatment cessation , did not differ significantly between the two groups . however , statistically significant decreases in overall and verbal intelligence quotients ( iqs ) and in arithmetic achievement were found within both treatment groups . sixteen of 26 in the mtx group and 14 of the 23 in the rt group had clinically important decreases ( greater than or equal to 15 points ) on one or more neuropsychologic measures . these changes did not correlate with findings on ct scans , eegs , or other clinical signs of neurotoxicity . we conclude that 1,800 cgy cranial radiation and parenteral methotrexate , as used in this study , are associated with comparable decreases in neuropsychologic function . 
high-dose chemoradiotherapy supported by marrow infusions for advanced neuroblastoma : a pediatric oncology group study [ published erratum appears in j clin oncol 1991 jun ; 9 ( 6 ) :1094 ] we conducted a pilot protocol at seven pediatric oncology group ( pog ) institutions to examine the feasibility , toxicity , and efficacy of using a common regimen of high-dose chemoradiotherapy ( hd ct/rt ) supported by autologous or allogeneic marrow infusions in children with metastatic neuroblastoma ( nbl ) in first or second remission . during a 57-month period , we accrued 101 patients . we report here results for the 81 who completed treatment at least 2 years ago . the hd ct/rt regimen consisted of melphalan 60 mg/m2/d for three doses , and total body irradiation ( tbi ) either 1.5 gy ( n = 27 ) or 2.0 gy ( n = 54 ) twice daily for six doses . twenty-three patients also received irradiation consisting of 1.2 gy twice daily for 10 doses to persisting disease sites . seventy-four were given autologous and seven allogeneic marrow , 64 autologous marrows being purged immunomagnetically . fifty-four children were in first complete ( cr ) or partial ( pr ) remission and 27 in second cr or pr . as of october 1 , 1990 , follow-up was from 32 to 72 months . forty-seven of these 81 children relapsed , 10 died of complications , one of unknown cause , and 23 continue in remission , including 21 of the 54 treated in first remission , and 16 who completed treatment more than 3 years ago . the 2-year actuarial event-free survival ( efs ) probabilities are first cr ( cr1 ) 32 % ( se 10 % ) , first pr ( pr1 ) 43 % ( se 9 % ) , second cr ( cr2 ) 33 % ( se 27 % ) , and second pr ( pr2 ) 5 % ( se 5 % ) . probability of efs correlated with remission number ( first better than second , p less than .001 ) , with interval from diagnosis to hd ct/rt ( greater than 9 months better than less than 9 months , p = .055 ) , and with tbi dose ( 12 gy better than 9 gy , p = .031 ) . these encouraging results may partly reflect selection for this treatment of patients with nbl who have a slower disease pace . 
relationship of tumor-cell ploidy to histologic subtype and treatment outcome in children and adolescents with unresectable rhabdomyosarcoma [ published erratum appears in j clin oncol 1991 may ; 9 ( 5 ) :893 ] clinical and histopathologic features are often inadequate for accurate prediction of relapse or survival of individual patients with rhabdomyosarcoma ( rms ) . we therefore studied the cellular dna content ( ploidy ) of rms cells in relation to histology and response to therapy in 37 patients with unresectable tumors . using flow cytometric techniques , we found that about one third of patients had diploid tumor stem lines , regardless of the histologic subtype . in the group with abnormal ploidy , a hyperdiploid classification ( 1.10 to 1.80 times the dna content of normal diploid cells ) was exclusively associated with embryonal histology ( p = .001 ) . by contrast , near-tetraploidy ( 1.80 to 2.60 times the dna content of normal cells ) was strongly associated with alveolar histology ( p = .001 ) . thus , in these histologic subtypes of rms , abnormal ploidy appears to arise through different mechanisms . tumor-cell ploidy had a significant impact on survival that was especially apparent in patients with unresectable , nonmetastatic ( group iii ) tumors . in this subgroup , hyperdiploidy conferred the best prognosis and diploidy the worst ( p less than .0001 ) . none of the eight patients with diploid tumors survived for more than 18 months . tumor-cell ploidy was the best predictor of treatment outcome for patients with either embryonal ( p less than .001 ; relative risk , 25.5 ) or alveolar ( p = .073 ; relative risk 7.1 ) rms and contributed significantly after adjustment for disease stage and anatomic site . patients with unresectable diploid rms have an unacceptably high risk of treatment failure , justifying new therapeutic approaches for this distinct subgroup . 
fludarabine phosphate : a synthetic purine antimetabolite with significant activity against lymphoid malignancies . fludarabine phosphate is the 2-fluoro , 5 ' - monophosphate derivative of vidarabine ( ara-a ) with the advantages of resistance to deamination by adenosine deaminase ( ada ) and improved solubility . the mechanism of cytotoxic action of the compound appears to involve metabolic conversion to the active triphosphate . fludarabine phosphate has substantial activity against lymphoid malignancies , particularly chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( cll ) and low-grade non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( nhl ) . its single-agent activity in cll appears at least comparable to those of other conventional combination regimens . its activity in hodgkin 's disease , mycosis fungoides , and macroglobulinemia , although suggestive , needs to be further defined and clinical trials are warranted in hairy cell leukemia , prolymphocytic leukemia , and previously untreated myeloma . the compound does not appear active against most common solid tumors . early clinical trials indicated significant myelosuppression and the potential for severe neurotoxicity . toxicity on the currently used low-dose schedules includes transient and reversible myelosuppression , nausea and vomiting , diarrhea , somnolence/fatigue , and elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum creatinine . possible pulmonary toxicity has been suggested in several patients . the currently used low-doses of fludarabine phosphate , even with repeated administration , are well tolerated and appear safe with a negligible risk for severe neurotoxicity . based on its single-agent activity and tolerability , the food and drug administration recently granted group c designation of the drug for the treatment of patients with refractory cll outside the clinical trials setting . the use of fludarabine phosphate in combination regimens and its impact on the natural history of the lymphoid malignancies is yet to be determined . fludarabine phosphate may well occupy a pivotal role in the management of cll and low-grade nhl . 
a phase ii clinical trial of carboplatin infusion in high-risk acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia . carboplatin ( cbdca ) is a second-generation platinum drug that has been shown to be useful when used as a continuous infusion in treatment of refractory adult leukemia . we report on the effectiveness of continuous infusion cbdca , 300 mg/m2/d x 5 days , as evaluated in nine patients with secondary acute nonlymphocytic leukemia ( anll ) ( seven previous myelodysplastic syndrome and two treatment-associated anll ) , three anll patients in first relapse , six refractory anll , and nine patients with blastic phase of chronic myelogenous leukemia ( bp-cml ) . all patients were considered assessable . the response rate was 44 % ( eight complete remissions [ crs ] , four partial remissions [ prs ] ) . median duration of postchemotherapy neutropenia was 36 days ( range , 18 to 45 ) . therapy was well tolerated , and toxicity was mainly hematologic and nondose-limiting . despite prolonged neutropenia , severe infections were rarely seen , and most patients were managed as outpatients . twelve patients had nausea and vomiting , two had symptomatic hypomagnesemia , and one patient showed reversible ototoxicity . because of substantial antileukemic activity and unusual extrahematologic toxicity , cbdca appears to be an effective second-line agent in the treatment of anll and should be considered for upgrading to first-line treatment regimens . 
fludarabine : a new agent with marked cytoreductive activity in untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia . thirty-three patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( cll ) with advanced rai stage ( iii-iv ) or progressive rai stage ( 0-ii ) disease were treated with fludarabine as a single agent . eleven patients ( 33 % ) obtained a complete remission ( cr ) , 13 ( 39 % ) a clinical cr with residual nodules as the only evidence of disease ( nodular partial remission [ pr ] ) , and two patients ( 6 % ) achieved a pr for a total response rate of 79 % . response was rapid , usually occurring after three to six courses of treatment . the major morbidity was infection . febrile episodes occurred in 13 % of the courses ( pneumonia 6 % , minor infection 4 % , and transient fever of undocumented cause 3 % ) . fludarabine appears to be the most cytoreductive single agent so far studied in cll . 
cytotoxic chemotherapy induces cell differentiation in small-cell lung carcinoma . despite the high response rates resulting from chemotherapy , the majority of small-cell lung cancer ( sclc ) patients relapse with chemoresistant tumors . to analyze the phenotypic changes that are precursors of chemoresistant status , and to investigate the role of chemotherapy in these changes , tumor samples from 20 patients , taken before chemotherapy ( etoposide , doxorubicin , and cyclophosphamide ) and again at the onset of chemoresistance ( after at least three courses of chemotherapy ) , were compared . the histologic changes were minor in 10 of 20 patients , as shown by an increase in cell size ; they were major in 10 of 20 patients , with the appearance of mixed composite tumors in which neuroendocrine ( ne ) , epidermoid , and glandular components were mixed . major changes correlated with a good response to chemotherapy ( p = .001 ) . ultrastructural studies showed an increase in neurosecretory granules and desmosomes , and a high frequency of multidirectional differentiation ( 45 % ) when comparison was made with pretherapy samples ( 10 % ) ( p less than .01 ) . immunohistochemical ( ih ) analysis showed an increase in cytokeratin ( ck ) expression in treated patients , with a different labeling pattern and the expression of higher molecular weight ck . the expression of ne lineage markers ( leu 19 , sy 38 , sl 11-14 ) remained stable , while that of ne differentiation markers ( leu 7 , chromogranin ) increased in the treated patients . the neuron-specific enolase ( nse ) activity remained stable in treated sclc . large cells with a more differentiated phenotype and proliferative capacity ( as shown by ki 67 labeling ) , appeared to be characteristic of treated and secondary chemoresistant sclc . the acquisition of a more complex phenotype , which correlates with primary response to therapy , implies a drug-induced differentiation in sclc . 
effectiveness of carboplatin , etoposide , and bleomycin combination chemotherapy in good-prognosis metastatic testicular nonseminomatous germ cell tumors . the combination of carboplatin , etoposide , and bleomycin ( ceb ) was evaluated as initial chemotherapy in 76 patients with good-prognosis metastatic nonseminomatous germ cell tumors ( nsgct ) between 1984 and 1988 . the classification of eligible patients included royal marsden hospital ( rmh ) stages im , iia , iib , iic , iiia , iiib , iv0abcl1 , and iv0abl2 . four courses of combination chemotherapy were administered in a 21-day cycle , and surgical excision of residual mass was performed in 27 cases ( 23 laparotomies and four thoracotomies ) . at the time of analysis , median follow-up was 24 months from start of chemotherapy ( range , 6 to 54 months ) . the 2-year cause-specific survival probability was 98.5 % , the single cause-related mortality being caused by bleomycin pneumonitis . five patients failed ceb chemotherapy , but all have been successfully salvaged with a combination of surgery and intensive chemotherapy , follow-up from completion of all treatment being 35 to 44 months . the toxicity of ceb included bone marrow suppression and alopecia in all patients but no significant neurotoxicity or ototoxicity , and minimal renal toxicity . only four ( 5 % ) patients had a decrease in the glomerular filtration rate greater than 15 % . in 51 % of patients , the hemoglobin fell below 10 g/dl . the wbc count nadir was less than 1,500 / microl in 11 % of treatment cycles and in 16 % the platelet nadir fell below 50,000 / microl . decreases in the wbc and platelet counts were of very brief duration . only one of 310 ceb cycles was complicated by neutropenic sepsis , and there were no episodes of thrombocytopenic purpura or bleeding . we conclude that the ceb combination represents an effective alternative to cisplatin-based chemotherapy in good-prognosis nsgct and that the replacement of cisplatin by carboplatin leads to reduced toxicity . 
how american oncologists treat breast cancer : an assessment of the influence of clinical trials . the present study was designed to assess the preferred methods of treatment of breast cancer by american oncologists , and the impact of clinical trials on their practice . we mailed 465 questionnaires to surgical , radiation , or medical oncologists . the questionnaire described five hypothetic patients with breast cancer , and respondents were asked to select their preferred treatment for each patient . for primary breast cancer , most physicians would offer the choice of local excision followed by radiation therapy or modified radical mastectomy . about 80 % of physicians would prescribe adjuvant chemotherapy for a premenopausal woman with estrogen receptor-negative , axillary node negative breast cancer , and for a postmenopausal woman with estrogen receptor-negative , node-positive disease . this policy was favored by male and female physicians of each specialty . almost all respondents would treat a young woman with inflammatory breast cancer with initial chemotherapy followed by radiation and/or surgery , and about 60 % would recommend chemotherapy to a postmenopausal patient with estrogen receptor-negative disease and minimally symptomatic bone metastases . clinical trials have compared treatment strategies that could be applied to patients described in our questionnaire . preferred treatments for primary breast cancer , and for inflammatory breast cancer are supported by the results of clinical trials . recommendation of adjuvant chemotherapy for node-negative breast cancer is not based on a consistent demonstration of improvement in survival , although randomized trials with short follow-up have shown delay to recurrence . recommendation of adjuvant chemotherapy for a postmenopausal woman with node-positive breast cancer is contrary to the results of large randomized controlled trials ( and to a meta-analysis ) , which have shown that this policy does not lead to improved survival . our report suggests that even large randomized clinical trials may have a minimal impact on practice if their results run counter to belief in the value of the treatment . 
4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide purging of breast cancer from the mononuclear cell fraction of bone marrow in patients receiving high-dose chemotherapy and autologous marrow support : a phase i trial . we designed an ex vivo bone marrow treatment for breast cancer patients receiving high-dose chemotherapy and autologous bone marrow support ( abms ) , using 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide ( 4-hc ) , an active derivative of cyclophosphamide with known activity against breast cancer . this phase i bone marrow purging trial used ficoll-separated mononuclear cells ( mnc ) ( devoid of granulocytes and rbcs ) , as opposed to the buffy coat . twenty-five patients with metastatic breast cancer were studied . patients received three cycles of the adriamycin ( doxorubicin ; adria laboratories , columbus , oh ) , fluorouracil , and methotrexate ( duke afm ) regimen , followed by marrow harvest . an mnc fraction of marrow was prepared and treated with 4-hc in concentrations of 20 micrograms/ml ( four patients ) , 40 micrograms/ml ( four patients ) , 60 micrograms/ml ( nine patients ) , or 80 micrograms/ml ( eight patients ) and cryopreserved . patients then received high-dose systemic cyclophosphamide , cisplatin , and carmustine , followed by infusion of the purged marrow . the study end point was marrow engraftment , defined as wbc count greater than 1,000 cells per microliter . at the first three dose levels ( 20 , 40 , and 60 micrograms/ml 4-hc ) , there was no significant delay in time to engraftment ( 19 , 20 , and 23 days , respectively ) compared with the unpurged historical controls ( 17 days ) . at 80 micrograms/ml , engraftment was significantly delayed compared with the lower concentrations ( p = .027 ) , and further escalation of 4-hc was not attempted . a significant correlation was observed between the time of leukocyte engraftment and the 4-hc concentration ( p = .017 ) . with a methylcellulose-based tissue culture assay , we demonstrated a statistically significant correlation between the colony-forming unit-granulocyte-macrophage ( cfu-gm ) content in the purged marrow and the days to engraftment . ninety-five percent of patients responded clinically to the entire program , 55 % of them completely . longer follow-up is required to assess the ultimate benefit of intensive therapy on long-term survival . 
phase i clinical trial with floxuridine and high-dose continuous infusion of leucovorin calcium . sixty-two patients with metastatic disease were treated with continuous infusion folinic acid ( leucovorin calcium ; lv ) and 2-deoxy-5-fluorouridine ( floxuridine ; fudr ) . lv was given by constant intravenous ( iv ) infusion at 500 mg/m2/d , days 1 to 6 , while fudr was given by iv push , days 2 to 6 , at 3:00 pm daily with doses ranging from 294 to 1,214 mg/m2/d . this program was well tolerated with dose-limiting toxicities of diarrhea and stomatitis , while hematologic toxicity was minimal . eighty-two percent of the assessable patients ( 46 of 56 ) had failed at least one chemotherapy regimen . one complete remission lasting 9 months and 10 partial remissions ranging from 5 to 10 months were observed in this heavily pretreated patient population for an overall response rate of 20 % . these data suggest that the combination therapy with lv and fudr may have clinical use . because of differing patient sensitivity to this drug combination , the recommended dose of fudr for the initial therapy cycle is 500 mg/m2/d , days 2 to 6 , with subsequent escalation to 900 mg/m2/d in those patients without extreme sensitivity . phase ii studies are now in progress with these doses . 
effect of dietary alpha-linolenic acid on growth , metastasis , fatty acid profile and prostaglandin production of two murine mammary adenocarcinomas . the purpose of this study was to determine whether dietary ( n-3 ) fatty acids would affect mammary tumor growth and metastasis . weanling female balb/c mice were fed diets that contained 10 % corn oil ( co ) , linseed oil ( lo ) or a fish oil-corn oil mix ( fo ) for 3-8 wk prior to receiving subcutaneous injections of one of two syngeneic mammary tumor cell types ( 410 and 410.4 ) . tumor growth was assessed by monitoring mean tumor diameter and tumor weight upon removal . feeding lo , but not fo , reduced the growth ( p less than 0.05 ) of 410.4 mammary tumors compared with growth in those fed co . metastasis data paralleled the tumor growth rate . feeding lo and fo enhanced ( p less than 0.005 ) incorporation of ( n-3 ) fatty acids into tumors . tumor prostaglandin e ( pge ) production was reduced ( p less than 0.005 ) by lo and fo , compared with co . fo feeding reduced 410.4 tumor pge synthesis more ( p less than 0.05 ) than lo feeding , yet tumor growth was only inhibited by lo . these data suggest an inhibitory effect of dietary linolenic acid [ i.e. , 18:3 ( n-3 ) ] on mammary tumor growth and metastasis . however , this effect did not directly correlate with diet-induced changes in pge synthesis . 
extraoral application of osseointegrated implants . the use of osseointegrated implants to provide support for craniofacial prostheses has provided the clinician with another approach to the treatment of complex craniofacial reconstructive problems . the surgical technique is reviewed and the mayo clinic experience is presented . 
central odontogenic fibroma : clinicopathologic features of 19 cases and review of the literature . the odontogenic fibroma is a benign neoplasm infrequently reported in the literature ( 20 cases ) . nineteen additional examples are reported . this lesion occurs most frequently in the maxilla anterior to the molars and displays a striking female predilection . on occasion , it may be associated with an unerupted mandibular third molar . histomorphologically , it is not encapsulated . a spectrum of fibrous connective tissue stroma is present : from myxoid to densely hyalinized and from relatively acellular to cellular . calcification may or may not be present . it is distinguished by the presence of sparse cords and islands of inactive odontogenic epithelium . enucleation or surgical curettage is appropriate therapy and recurrence is low . as there appears to be no correlation of histologic pattern with clinical behavior , it seems unnecessary to try to separate the tumor into two variants . 
antisecretory and antilesional effect of a new histamine h2-receptor antagonist , it-066 , in rats . the effects of a new histamine h2-receptor antagonist , it-066 ( 3-amino-4 - [ 4 - [ 4 - ( 1-piperidinomethyl ) -2 - pyridyloxy ] - cis-2 - + + + butenylamino ] - 3-cyclobutene-1 ,2 - dione hydrochloride ) , were investigated on the secretagogue-induced acid secretion in vivo and in vitro , and on experimental gastric and duodenal lesion in rats . it-066 ( 10-60 micrograms/kg ) given i.v. inhibited histamine-stimulated acid secretion dose-dependently in gastric lumen-perfused rats , and the inhibitory effect was observed for about 12 hr . famotidine ( fmd ) ( 10-60 micrograms/kg i.v. ) also had an antisecretory effect , but the acid secretion recovered to the control level 4 hr after the administration . cold stress plus indomethacin-induced lesion was significantly inhibited by it-066 and fmd given i.v. 30 min before the cold stress plus indomethacin treatment . it-066 given 7 hr before the cold stress plus indomethacin treatment also inhibited lesion formation significantly , but such antilesional effect was not observed with fmd . in the rat isolated gastric mucosal sheet , it-066 inhibited histamine-stimulated acid secretion dose-dependently and noncompetitively ; its action was produced via a unique mechanism . the inhibitory effect of it-066 remained after washing of the mucosa , and became more potent time-dependently . the inhibitory effects of fmd and cimetidine were not observed after washing the mucosa . these data suggest that it-066 has a potent and long lasting antisecretory effect in vivo and in vitro , and that these properties are responsible for the long lasting antilesional action . 
potent selective inhibition of 7-o-methyl ucn-01 against protein kinase c. ucn-01 is a staurosporine-related compound that was isolated from the culture broth of streptomyces sp . and shows potent and selective inhibitory activity against protein kinase c. cellular inhibitory activity of ucn-01 against protein kinase c and cytotoxicity of ucn-01 were compared with those of staurosporine . when the mechanism of inhibitory activity was investigated in vitro , ucn-01 as well as staurosporine inhibited the activity of the catalytic domain of protein kinase c. in spite of direct inhibition against the catalytic domain of protein kinase c , cytotoxicity of ucn-01 was much lower than that of staurosporine . in addition , ucn-01 showed more selective inhibitory activity against protein kinase c than did staurosporine because of the sole structural difference at c-7 . therefore , a series of 7-o-alkyl derivatives of ucn-01 was synthesized and investigated . interestingly , one of the compounds , the beta-methoxy derivative , showed 3-fold greater potency and 17-fold more selective inhibitory activity against protein kinase c than did ucn-01 . 
stimulatory effects of maitotoxin on insulin release in insulinoma hit cells : role of calcium uptake and phosphoinositide breakdown . in hamster insulinoma ( hit ) cells , maitotoxin ( mtx ) induces a time-dependent and concentration-dependent release of insulin that requires the presence of extracellular calcium . the response is nearly completely blocked by cinnarizine and cadmium , but is not inhibited by the l-type calcium channel blocker nifedipine or by manganese . mtx induces 45ca + uptake in these cells in a dose-dependent mode , and the uptake is blocked with cinnarizine , nifedipine and cadmium , and is partially inhibited by manganese . mtx induces phosphoinositide breakdown in hit cells , and the response is partially blocked by cadmium , but is not affected by nifedipine , cinnarizine or manganese . high concentrations of potassium ions also induce insulin release and calcium uptake in hit cells . both effects of potassium are blocked partially by nifedipine , cadmium and cinnarizine . high concentrations of potassium do not induce phosphoinositide breakdown in hit cells . the results suggest that mtx-elicited release of insulin is attained by two mechanisms : 1 ) a nifedipine-sensitive action , which results from mtx-induced activation of l-type calcium channels , which can be mimicked with high potassium concentrations ; and 2 ) a nifedipine-insensitive action , which may be initiated by the activation of phosphoinositide breakdown by mtx . such an activation of phospholipase c would result in the formation of 1,4,5-inositol trisphosphate , a release of intracellular calcium and then release of insulin to the extracellular space . cinnarizine is proposed to block both mtx-elicited mechanisms , the first by blockade of calcium channels and the second by blocking 1,4,5-inositol trisphosphate-induced release of internal calcium . either mechanism alone appears capable of eliciting release of insulin . 
improved outcome in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia with reinforced early treatment and rotational combination chemotherapy . to improve outcome in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia ( all ) , a stratified , randomised study of extended intensified chemotherapy was done . 358 evaluable patients received remission reinforcement therapy ( teniposide , cytarabine , high-dose methotrexate ) added to a four-drug induction regimen . those achieving complete remission were randomised on the basis of risk group assignment to conventional continuation treatment or to four pairs of drugs rotated weekly or every 6 weeks . all patients received intrathecal chemotherapy ; higher-risk patients also received 1800 cgy cranial irradiation after 1 year of remission . complete remission was induced in 96 % of the patients . at median follow-up of 40 ( range 19-73 ) months , 4-year event-free survival ( se ) was 73 ( 4 ) % overall , 81 ( 6 ) % in the lower-risk group ( n = 110 ) , and 69 ( 5 ) % in the higher-risk group ( n = 248 ) . outcome within risk groups was not significantly affected by the speed of rotation of drug pairs during continuation treatment . various high-risk subgroups had apparently improved responses to this treatment . this intensified chemotherapy may cure 69-77 % of children with all . 
nd : yag-laser in the microsurgery of frontobasal meningiomas . forty-three patients with big frontobasal meningiomas underwent a microsurgical removal of the tumor . the 1.32 microns nd : yag-laser has proved useful in this prospective series particularly with the contactless shrinkage of the tumors and the necrotization of the dural and bony attachments . tumor shrinkage was achieved by radiating the tumor surface with the nd : yag-laser . this technique facilitated the microsurgical dissection and reduced the blood loss by half . the nd : yag-laser necrotization of the dural and bony attachments reduced the recurrence rate following grade two resections from 20 % to zero . the postoperative quality of life was excellent with a complete rehabilitation in 76 % of the patients . the use of the 1.32 microns nd : yag-laser improved significantly the results of microsurgery for frontobasal meningioma . 
molecular surgery of the basement membrane by the argon laser . although the argon laser is used successfully to weld a number of different tissues , the underlying chemical and cellular mechanisms for this process are not precisely defined . consequently , a biochemical model has been developed in vitro using the well-defined extracellular matrix from the murine engelbreth-holm-swarm ( ehs ) sarcoma . control and experimental samples of ehs basement membranes were irradiated with a trimedyne argon laser at 500-3 ,000 joules/cm2 at 0 degrees c. the samples were diluted into cold phosphate-buffered saline and allowed to gel at 35 degrees c. the time course of the gelation reaction was followed in a spectrophotometer at 360 nm . irradiation reduced the absorbance 7.5-15 % compared to controls and was independent of the dilution over a 10-fold range . gelation was also measured by determining the amount of protein by the bradford assay that could be collected by centrifugation at 10,000 g for 10 minutes . argon-irradiated samples had 30-40 % less protein in the precipitate than the controls . the addition of 5 mm beta-mercaptoethanol to the ehs extract blocked the effect of the laser on the gelation reaction . in addition , when gelation was carried out in the absence of calcium and magnesium , there were no differences between laser-treated samples and controls . the basement membrane proteins were separated by electrophoresis through polyacrylamide gels under denaturing plus reducing or denaturing and non-reducing conditions . no differences in the polypeptide composition were noted between irradiated and control samples using either coomassie - or silver-staining techniques . 
cancer mortality in workers exposed to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin background . in both animal and epidemiologic studies , exposure to dioxin ( 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin , or tcdd ) has been associated with an increased risk of cancer . methods . we conducted a retrospective cohort study of mortality among the 5172 workers at 12 plants in the united states that produced chemicals contaminated with tcdd . occupational exposure was documented by reviewing job descriptions and by measuring tcdd in serum from a sample of 253 workers . causes of death were taken from death certificates . results . mortality from several cancers previously associated with tcdd ( stomach , liver , and nasal cancers , hodgkin 's disease , and non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ) was not significantly elevated in this cohort . mortality from soft-tissue sarcoma was increased , but not significantly ( 4 deaths ; standardized mortality ratio [ smr ] , 338 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 92 to 865 ) . in the subcohort of 1520 workers with greater than or equal to 1 year of exposure and greater than or equal to 20 years of latency , however , mortality was significantly increased for soft-tissue sarcoma ( 3 deaths ; smr , 922 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 190 to 2695 ) and for cancers of the respiratory system ( smr , 142 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 103 to 192 ) . mortality from all cancers combined was slightly but significantly elevated in the overall cohort ( smr , 115 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 102 to 130 ) and was higher in the subcohort with greater than or equal to 1 year of exposure and greater than or equal to 20 years of latency ( smr , 146 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 121 to 176 ) . conclusions . this study of mortality among workers with occupational exposure to tcdd does not confirm the high relative risks reported for many cancers in previous studies . conclusions about an increase in the risk of soft-tissue sarcoma are limited by small numbers and misclassification on death certificates . excess mortality from all cancers combined , cancers of the respiratory tract , and soft-tissue sarcoma may result from exposure to tcdd , although we can not exclude the possible contribution of factors such as smoking and occupational exposure to other chemicals . 
prognostic value of immunocytologic detection of bone marrow metastases in neuroblastoma . background . morphologic evaluation of bone marrow for neuroblastoma cells is a routine and important component of clinical staging . specific immunostaining of malignant cells with monoclonal antibodies should be more sensitive , however , and may improve the detection of metastases and provide additional prognostic information . methods . we looked for tumor cells in bone marrow from 197 patients with newly diagnosed neuroblastoma , using immunoperoxidase staining with monoclonal antibodies ( immunocytologic analysis ) and examination of smears and specimens obtained by trephine biopsy ( conventional analysis ) . results . routine smears and trephine-biopsy specimens were positive for tumor cells in 46 percent of the patients , whereas 67 percent were positive on immunocytologic analysis ( p less than 0.0001 ) . immunocytologic analysis detected bone marrow metastases in 34 percent of patients considered to have only localized or regional disease ( stage i , ii , or iii ) . it also identified tumor cells that were not detected by conventional analysis in patients with widespread disease ( stage iv or ivs ) . tumor content , as determined by immunocytologic analysis , predicted clinical outcome in relation to the age of the patient at diagnosis . patients with stage ii or iii disease diagnosed after one year of age who did not have occult marrow metastases did well , whereas those with metastases did poorly ( p = 0.006 ) . patients in whom stage iv disease was diagnosed before they were one year of age did well if bone marrow metastases were few or absent , but had poor survival if the marrow contained more than 0.02 percent tumor cells ( p = 0.03 ) . conclusions . immunocytologic analysis of bone marrow aspirates is more sensitive than conventional analysis in detecting tumor cells and provides prognostic information . the relations among marrow metastases , age at diagnosis , and clinical outcome illustrate the biologic heterogeneity of neuroblastoma . 
neonatal subependymal giant cell astrocytoma associated with tuberous sclerosis : mri , ct , and ultrasound correlation . we describe a term newborn with tuberous sclerosis who presented with a neonatal brain tumor , diagnosed as a subependymal giant cell astrocytoma . we compare the various imaging modalities used in the diagnosis of this tumor . 
absence of acetylcholine-induced current in epithelial cells from thymus glands and thymomas of myasthenia gravis patients . we investigated the activity of ion channels in epithelial cells from human thymus glands and thymomas kept in short-term cell culture by clamping the membrane potential of the cells at -85 mv and determining the membrane current flowing on application of acetylcholine , glycine , or gamma-aminobutyric acid . in concentrations of up to 10 ( -3 ) m , none of the neurotransmitters induced any detectable current . this suggests ( 1 ) that there are no acetylcholine receptors ( achrs ) or other products of the achr gene family having ion-channel properties in the membranes of these epithelial cells , and ( 2 ) that the alpha-bungarotoxin-binding protein of thymus and thymoma has no achr-like ion-channel property . these results support the hypothesis that the cross-reacting structures that elicit the anti-achr autoimmune response in thymoma-associated myasthenia gravis are antigens having only limited homology with the achr . myasthenia gravis not associated with thymoma might have a different pathogenesis . 
brain and spinal cord hemorrhage in long-term survivors of malignant pediatric brain tumors : a possible late effect of therapy . three children with malignant primary cns tumors treated with craniospinal radiotherapy developed intraparenchymal hemorrhages a median of 5 years following therapy in sites distant from the primary tumor . radical surgical procedures disclosed fresh and old hematoma , gliosis , and necrosis in all 3 patients and an aggregation of abnormal microscopic blood vessels in two . no tumor was found . all 3 patients remain in long-term ( greater than 10 years ) continuous remission . 
comparison of myelography with ct follow-up versus gadolinium mri for subarachnoid metastatic disease in children . we evaluated 17 children with primary intracranial neoplasms for subarachnoid metastatic disease ( samd ) using myelography with computed tomographic follow-up ( myelo + ct ) and cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) histopathologic examination , as well as magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium dtpa ( mri + gd ) , between december 1988 and december 1989 . there were 12 boys , and the median age was 5.7 years ( range , 0.8 to 21.8 years ) . tumor histology included 8 primitive neuroectodermal tumors ( pnets ) , 3 ependymomas , 2 low-grade astrocytomas , 1 anaplastic astrocytoma , 1 glioblastoma multiforme , 1 atypical rhabdoid tumor , and 1 malignant fibrous histiocytoma . thirteen tumors originated in the posterior fossa , 2 were supratentorial , and 2 were in the spinal cord . the median interval between the 2 diagnostic tests was 2 days . mri + gd was positive in 11 ( 65 % ) , myelo + ct in 8 ( 47 % ) , and csf in 5 ( 29 % ) cases . mri + gd was superior in delineating spinal cord nodules and " sugar coating " whereas myelo + ct more readily revealed nerve root sleeve filling defects . there was no case in which myelo + ct was positive that mri + gd did not reveal samd . mri + gd is a safe , noninvasive test that should be used as the initial imaging modality for the presence of samd . 
dysgeusia , gustatory sweating , and crocodile tears syndrome induced by a cerebellopontine angle meningioma . facial nerve involvement in cerebellopontine angle tumors , both during their development and after excision , may be expressed in irreversible dysfunction of the parasympathetic pathways . the exact location of the lesion along the efferent nerve fibers can be established through evaluation of the functional level of those organs supplied by the cholinergic motor secretory components . this report deals with a female patient in whom peripheral facial palsy developed shortly after removal of a right cerebellopontine angle meningioma . she had slight facial asymmetry and deafness in the right ear and complained of prandial flush and sweating of the right malar area . occult ipsilateral hyposalivation and hypolacrimation were diagnosed . in patients with seventh and ninth cranial nerve pathoses , evaluation of the end organs that are supplied by their associated autonomous nerve fibers is mandatory to prevent late ocular and oral sequelae . 
salivary flow rates in patients with head and neck cancer 0.5 to 25 years after radiotherapy . in this clinical study at the university of texas m. d. anderson cancer center , unstimulated and stimulated salivary flow rates were obtained from 47 patients with head and neck cancer who had received mantle , unilateral facial , or bilateral facial field radiotherapy from 0.5 to 25 years earlier . the magnitude of salivary flow rate reduction compared with a healthy control group was primarily related to the radiation dosage and the amount of salivary gland tissue included in the irradiated fields . flow rates were lower for women in all groups , but these differences were not statistically significant . 
intramuscular hemangioma in the oral region : report of three cases . the occurrence of intramuscular hemangioma in an intraoral or perioral localization is rare , and a thorough knowledge of these tumors is necessary for adequate diagnosis and treatment . three cases are presented with discussion , and their histopathology and differential diagnosis are discussed . an adequate primary excision is necessary to avoid recurrence . 
human papillomaviruses : pediatric perspectives on a family of multifaceted tumorigenic pathogens as summarized here human papillomaviruses are associated with a wide spectrum of epithelial lesions , ranging from benign warts to invasive carcinomas . they have been difficult to study in part because they have not yet been propagated in tissue culture . fortunately advances in molecular biology have allowed characterization of hpv genomes and identification of some hpv gene functions . in addition to their clinical importance hpvs represent an important tool for exploring virus-cell interactions , gene expression , cellular differentiation and cancer . hpv infections are not only common but also difficult to treat and prevent . depending on the hpv type and location , the modes of hpv transmission may involve casual physical contact , sexual contact and perinatal vertical transmission . hpv dna genomes replicate at a low copy number in basal cells and , as most clinicians know , are difficult to eradicate . there is often a long latent period and subclinical infections , and hpv dna can be found in normal tissue adjacent to lesions . hpvs can cause widely disseminated lesions , especially in the immunocompromised host and in epidermodysplasia verruciformis . aside from the rare carcinomas , the most serious life-threatening hpv-induced illness in children is recurrent respiratory papillomatosis . somewhat surprisingly in malignant lesions hpv dna is also found as fragments incorporated into the cellular genome . unlike retroviruses such as human immunodeficiency virus which integrate into the cellular genome as part of their life cycle , hpv integration is a terminal event for viral replication . such integration may be critical , however , for viral-induced abnormal cell growth . perhaps the most important implication of the finding that some anogenital cancers are in part sexually transmitted infectious diseases is that they may be preventable . the data overwhelmingly suggest that avoidance of exposure to hpv via abstinence or monogamy in both partners markedly reduces the risk of cervical cancer . a more realistic goal , however is prevention of hpv transmission by the use of barrier method contraceptives , which may be protective against development of cervical carcinoma . the america association of pediatrics committee on adolescents has outlined the obligation of pediatricians to be actively involved in adolescent education on sexually transmitted diseases . certainly a fundamental knowledge of hpv epidemiology , the risks of hpv-related sequelae and prevention of hpv infection are important considerations for adolescent sexuality . although helpful , such awareness alone falls far short of making an impact on sexual behaviors . a significant reduction in hpv infection rates could be achieved only by inundating adolescents at an early age with a highly visible society-wide campaign directed at these issues . 
the butterfly rash and the malar flush . what diseases do these signs reflect ? the butterfly rash and malar flush are common facial manifestations of several disorders . systemic lupus erythematosus may produce a transient rash before any other signs . in pellagra , symmetric keratotic areas on the face are always accompanied by lesions elsewhere on the body . erysipelas produces brawny , fiery red facial lesions , and scarlet fever causes facial eruptions as part of a generalized eruption . lupus vulgaris and lupus pernio produce nodules that may spread in a butterfly pattern , and seborrheic dermatitis has a predilection for the malar prominences and other areas of the face . carcinoid syndrome often causes flushing attacks that vary in duration , and facial flushing that lasts throughout treatment may accompany chemotherapy if the patient has a hypersensitivity reaction . deep-red rashes and/or lichenoid lesions may be caused by graft-versus-host disease in a patient undergoing bone marrow transplantation . 
analysis of interleukin 2 and various effector cell populations in adoptive immunotherapy of 9l rat gliosarcoma : allogeneic cytotoxic t lymphocytes prevent tumor take . recombinant interleukin 2 ( ril-2 ) and various effector cell populations were used for adoptive immunotherapy in the fischer strain 9l rat gliosarcoma model . the in vivo cytotoxicities of nonspecifically activated lymphocytes and specifically activated cytotoxic t lymphocytes ( ctls ) were assessed in a modified in vivo neutralization ( winn ) assay . effector cells ( 10 ( 6 ) ) and 9l tumor cells ( 10 ( 5 ] were combined with 10 ( 4 ) units of ril-2 and stereotactically implanted into the right frontal centrum semiovale of the fischer ( f344 ) rat . at 7 and 14 days , additional effector cells ( 10 ( 6 ] and ril-2 ( 10 ( 4 ) units ) were administered through the same burr hole . nonspecifically activated splenocytes were lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cells , both plastic-adherent and nonadherent , whereas specifically activated ctls were either syngeneic ( genetically identical ) or allogeneic ( genetically dissimilar ) . syngeneic ctls were t lymphocytes from fischer rats primed in vivo with 9l cells and restimulated in vitro . allogeneic ctls were generated by exposing da rat lymphocytes either to irradiated fischer lymph node cells or to 9l fisher tumor cells in vitro . control groups included rats bearing 9l tumor who were untreated , those who received peripheral ( i.p. or s.c. ) administration of ril-2 , or those who received syngeneic unstimulated t lymphocytes and ril-2 . for a set of animals given the same inoculum of 9l tumor , significantly improved survival was shown for groups treated with nonadherent or adherent lak cells ( p less than or equal to 0.0003 ) , syngeneic ctls ( p = 0.0327 ) , or allogeneic ctls ( p = 0.0025 ) over untreated control animals by using mantel-haenzel nonparametric logrank equations . only treatment with allogeneic ctls prevented tumor take . 
activation of early events of the mitogenic response by a p2y purinoceptor with covalently bound 3 ' - o - ( 4-benzoyl ) - benzoyladenosine 5 ' - triphosphate . 3 ' - o - ( 4-benzoyl ) benzoyl-atp ( bzatp ) , a photoaffinity analog of atp , was used as a ligand for a p2y purinoceptor ( adenine nucleotide receptor ) present in intact swiss 3t3 and 3t6 cells and a-431 epidermoid carcinoma cells . photolysis of serum-starved cells in the presence of 10-50 microm bzatp , followed by extensive washing to remove unincorporated bzatp , induced the release of arachidonic acid . a trace ( less than 0.01 % ) of photoincorporated bzatp was as effective as when 50 microm bzatp or atp was contained in the incubation medium during the assay . photoincorporated bzatp also stimulated the production of prostaglandin e2 and the accumulation of cyclic amp . in previous studies , we demonstrated that these three events are obligatory early steps in a pathway leading to dna synthesis in the above cell lines . the evidence indicated that the purinoceptor activated by extracellular atp or bzatp was linked to a pertussis toxin-sensitive gtp-binding protein . consistent with these observations , we now find that pertussis toxin inhibits the effect of photoincorporated bzatp on arachidonic acid release . these results indicate that bzatp is an effective agonist for the p2y purinoceptor concerned with stimulation of dna synthesis in 3t3 , 3t6 , and a-431 cells . furthermore , after photolysis it becomes irreversibly associated with intact cells and promotes the activation of early events required for dna synthesis . 
human tumor necrosis factor alpha gene regulation by virus and lipopolysaccharide . we have identified a region of the human tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) gene promoter that is necessary for maximal constitutive , virus-induced , and lipopolysaccharide ( lps ) - induced transcription . this region contains three sites that match an nf-kappa b binding-site consensus sequence . we show that these three sites specifically bind nf-kappa b in vitro , yet each of these sites can be deleted from the tnf-alpha promoter with little effect on the induction of the gene by virus or lps . moreover , when multimers of these three sites are placed upstream from a truncated tnf-alpha promoter , or a heterologous promoter , an increase in the basal level of transcription is observed that is influenced by sequence context and cell type . however , these multimers are not sufficient for virus or lps induction of either promoter . thus , unlike other virus - and lps-inducible promoters that contain nf-kappa b binding sites , these sites from the tnf-alpha promoter are neither required nor sufficient for virus or lps induction . comparison of the sequence requirements of virus induction of the human tnf-alpha gene in mouse l929 and p388d1 cells reveals significant differences , indicating that the sequence requirements for virus induction of the gene are cell type-specific . however , the sequences required for virus and lps induction of the gene in a single cell type , p388d1 , overlap . 
boron neutron capture therapy of intracerebral rat gliosarcomas . the efficacy of boron neutron capture therapy ( bnct ) for the treatment of intracerebrally implanted rat gliosarcomas was tested . preferential accumulation of 10b in tumors was achieved by continuous infusion of the sulfhydryl borane dimer , na4 ( 10 ) b24h22s2 , at a rate of 45-50 micrograms of 10b per g of body weight per day from day 11 to day 14 after tumor initiation ( day 0 ) . this infusion schedule resulted in average blood 10b concentrations of 35 micrograms/ml in a group of 12 gliosarcoma-bearing rats and 45 micrograms/ml in a group of 10 similar gliosarcoma-bearing rats treated by bnct . estimated tumor 10b levels in these two groups were 26 and 34 micrograms/g , respectively . on day 14 , boron-treated and non-boron-treated rats were exposed to 5.0 or 7.5 mw.min of radiation from the brookhaven medical research reactor that yielded thermal neutron fluences of approximately 2.0 x 10 ( 12 ) or approximately 3.0 x 10 ( 12 ) n/cm2 , respectively , in the tumors . untreated rats had a median postinitiation survival time of 21 days . reactor radiation alone increased median postinitiation survival time to 26 ( 5.0 mw.min ) or 28 ( 7.5 mw.min ) days . the 12 rats that received 5 mw.min of bnct had a median postinitiation survival time of 60 days . two of these animals survived greater than 15 months . in the 7.5 mw.min group , the median survival time is not calculable since 6 of the 10 animals remain alive greater than 10 months after bnct . the estimated radiation doses to tumors in the two bnct groups were 14.2 and 25.6 gy equivalents , respectively . similar gliosarcoma-bearing rats treated with 15.0 or 22.5 gy of 250-kilovolt peak x-rays had median survival times of only 26 or 31 days , respectively , after tumor initiation . 
identification of transforming growth factor beta family members present in bone-inductive protein purified from bovine bone . characterization of the polypeptides present in bone-inductive protein extracts from bovine bone has led to the cloning of seven regulatory molecules , six of which are distantly related to transforming growth factor beta . the three human bone morphogenetic proteins ( bmps ) we describe herein , bmp-5 , bmp-6 , and bmp-7 , show extensive sequence similarity to bmp-2 , a molecule that by itself is sufficient to induce de novo bone formation in vivo . the additive or synergistic contribution of these bmp-2-related molecules to the osteogenic activity associated with demineralized bone is strongly implicated by the presence of these growth factors in the most active fractions of highly purified bone extract . 
adenovirus 12s e1a gene represses differentiation of f9 teratocarcinoma cells . the f9 teratocarcinoma cell line differentiates in vitro after treatment with retinoic acid and camp and has been a widely used model system for the study of the molecular events that are responsible for cellular commitment and differentiation during early development . previous experiments have suggested intriguing parallels between the control of gene expression during f9 cell differentiation and the regulation of gene expression by adenovirus e1a . transfection of a 12s e1a-expressing plasmid into terminally differentiated , nonproliferating f9 cells generates , at high frequency , colonies of dividing cells , each of which expresses e1a . cell lines established from these colonies proliferate in the presence of retinoic acid and have lost the fully differentiated phenotype as characterized by the absence of expression of a series of differentiation-specific genes . we conclude that expression of the viral 12s e1a gene product interferes with retinoic acid-induced f9 cell differentiation . moreover , the results suggest that the differentiation process , as defined by markers of terminal differentiation , may not be a permanent event but can be reversed by e1a expression . 
frequent mutation of the p53 gene in human esophageal cancer . sequence alterations in the p53 gene have been detected in human tumors of the brain , breast , lung , and colon , and it has been proposed that p53 mutations spanning a major portion of the coding region inactivate the tumor suppressor function of this gene . to our knowledge , neither transforming mutations in oncogenes nor mutations in tumor suppressor genes have been reported in human esophageal tumors . we examined four human esophageal carcinoma cell lines and 14 human esophageal squamous cell carcinomas by polymerase chain reaction amplification and direct sequencing for the presence of p53 mutations in exons 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , and 9 . two cell lines and five of the tumor specimens contained a mutated allele ( one frameshift and six missense mutations ) . all missense mutations detected occurred at g.c base pairs in codons at or adjacent to mutations previously reported in other cancers . the identification of aberrant p53 gene alleles in one-third of the tumors we tested suggests that mutations at this locus are common genetic events in the pathogenesis of squamous cell carcinomas of the esophagus . 
activation of erythropoietin receptors by friend viral gp55 and by erythropoietin and down-modulation by the murine fv-2r resistance gene . the leukemogenic membrane glycoprotein ( gp55 ) encoded by friend spleen focus-forming virus appears to bind to erythropoietin receptors ( epor ) sto stimulate erythroblastosis [ li , j.-p. , d'andrea , a.d. , lodish , h.f. & baltimore , d. ( 1990 ) nature ( london ) 343 , 762-764 ] . to directly compare the effects of gp55 with erythropoietin ( epo ) , we produced retrovirions that encode either gp55 , epo , or epor . after infection with epor virus , interleukin 3-dependent da-3 cells bound 125i-labeled epo and grew without interleukin 3 in the presence of epo . these latter cells , but not parental da-3 cells , became factor-independent after superinfection either with epo virus or with friend spleen focus-forming virus . in addition , epo virus caused a disease in mice that mimicked friend erythroleukemia . although fv-2r homozygotes are susceptible to all other retroviral diseases , they are resistant to both epo viral and friend viral erythroleukemias . these results indicate that both gp55 and epo stimulate epor and that the fv-2 gene encodes a protein that controls response to these ligands . however , the fv-2 protein is not epor because the corresponding genes map to opposite ends of mouse chromosome 9 . these results have important implications for understanding signal transduction by epor and the role of host genetic variation in controlling susceptibility to an oncogenic protein . 
skeletal manifestations of ectopic or inappropriate endocrine and metabolic syndromes . a variety of tumors and nontumorous lesions were used to illustrate some of the biologic , clinical , and pathologic aspects of inappropriate or ectopic endocrine and metabolic syndromes that have musculoskeletal repercussions . it is clear , both from the discussion and case material , that many mechanisms of ectopic endocrine syndromes have yet to be clarified . elaborate techniques are available for hormonal estimations , but their routine use is prohibitively expensive and relatively unrewarding . cells of a given lesion may be functionally heterogeneous or may fail to elaborate active products in substantial amounts . different cells may produce similar peptides , while the same cells can produce more than one . despite these difficulties , recognition of ectopic endocrine syndromes remains crucial to diagnosis and patient management , and thus corroboration or correlation must often rest on a cruder basis . in fact , the clinical significance of basic laboratory data , e.g. , pth elevation , may vary , as pth may be immunoreactive but biologically inactive . as another example , hypercalcemia associated with myeloma may be variously related to coexistent hyperparathyroidism , renal disease , dehydration , or humoral osteolysis . therefore , roentgenographic evidence of bone destruction or skeletal stigmata of hyperparathyroidism imbues laboratory data with greater significance . paraneoplastic syndromes are of particular concern to the radiologist , as multiple systemic manifestations , occurring either synchronously or metachronously , may suggest the presence of an underlying or unifying lesion or even of a specific type of neoplasm . they may precede detection of neoplasms by months to years and can develop at any time during their course . paraneoplastic syndromes may , furthermore , parallel the course of a lesion and be used as indicators of remission or recurrence . conversely , those unassociated with overt symptoms possess endocrine markers that can reinforce sometimes silent skeletal stigmata . familiarity with representative secretory products influencing the musculoskeletal system per se may often clarify seemingly innocuous and sometimes asymptomatic skeletal findings . alert imagers may , therefore , detect , infer , or suspect particular syndromes when they present in a specific sequence or mosaic . conversely , when apprised of their existence , imagers should know where their related effects may be sought or anticipated . such relationships , sometimes serendipitously discovered , may be valuable assets in clinical diagnosis and patient management in both suspected and unsuspected cases . 
adenocarcinoma of the colon and rectum in patients less than 40 years of age . from 1962 to 1988 , 50 of 801 patients with adenocarcinoma of the colon and rectum treated at the national naval medical center were less than 40 years old . symptoms were present in 47 of the younger patients at presentation . the mean duration of time from the onset of symptoms to diagnosis in this group was 4.9 months . risk factors for carcinoma of the colon and rectum were identified in 14 of 50 patients less than 40 years old . a significantly greater proportion of patients less than 40 years old had stage c disease compared with the older group of patients ( 42 versus 22 per cent , p = 0.014 ) . stage b disease was more common in patients more than 40 years of age ( 44.8 versus 26.0 per cent , p = 0.014 ) . the proportion of patients with stages a and d disease was similar in both age groups . the cumulative survival rate in this group at five and ten years was 43 and 34 per cent , respectively . the five year survival rate in patients less than 40 years old with stage b disease was 76 per cent and with stage c disease , 37 per cent . all young patients with stage d disease were dead at 28 months . synchronous and metachronous carcinomas of the colon and rectum were uncommon in patients less than 40 years old . patients less than 40 years of age with carcinoma of the colon and rectum are usually symptomatic and have advanced disease at the time of presentation . survival time for these patients for each stage of disease is similar to the over-all population of patients with carcinoma of the colon and rectum . 
the oncologic risks of skin preservation at mastectomy when combined with immediate reconstruction of the breast . most oncologic surgeons agree that removal of the nipple , the areola and any recent scar at the site of the biopsy is necessary during a mastectomy for treatment of carcinoma of the breast . there is less agreement about what should be done with the remaining uninvolved mammary skin . its preservation facilitates the performance of immediate reconstruction of the breast and can lead to improved aesthetic results , but many oncologists fear that this practice could lead to an increased incidence of local tumor recurrence . to determine if that fear was justified , 87 patients who had undergone unilateral or bilateral mastectomy with immediate reconstruction for treatment of early carcinoma of the breast were studied . preservation of uninvolved skin was used in all instances . all patients had a documented follow-up study of 12 months or more ; the average follow-up time was 23.1 months . one peripheral local recurrence was observed . this 1.2 per cent rate of early local recurrence is lower than that reported from several series using modified radical mastectomy without skin preservation or immediate reconstruction , and suggests that skin preservation does not confer additional risks of local recurrence of carcinoma of the breast in properly selected patients . 
prognostic significance of serosal invasion in carcinoma of the stomach . two hundred and seventy-seven patients with advanced carcinoma of the stomach invading the serosa were studied with regard to the relationship between the length of the serosal invasion ( lsi ) and prognosis , with a division made between expanding and infiltrative types of tumors . among patients with expanding types of tumors , five year survival rates were 40 per cent in patients with lsi less than 4.0 centimeters , 33 per cent in patients with lsi 4.1 to 6.0 centimeters and 13.0 per cent in patients with lsi more than 6.0 centimeters . among those patients with infiltrative types of tumors , those with less than 2.0 centimeters of lsi had a better prognosis ( five year survival rate of 53 per cent ) , whereas those patients with a lsi more than 2.0 centimeters had a very poor prognosis ( five year survival rate of less than 20 per cent ) and the significant lsi on prognosis was found to be 2.0 centimeters . involvement of the lymph node and metastasis to the liver were not affected by lsi , whereas the rates of peritoneal dissemination and direct invasion to neighboring organs increased with an increase in lsi . knowledge of these factors facilitates the planning of postoperative treatment . 
gastric lymphoma . from 1976 to 1988 , 35 patients were treated for stage ie and stage iie primary gastric lymphoma ( non-hodgkin 's ) . pain and weight loss were the predominant symptoms , physical findings were usually absent and 20 per cent of the patients were anemic . the results of gastrointestinal contrast studies suggested a malignant condition in 75 per cent , but findings were not specific for lymphoma . endoscopic findings suggested a malignant process in 85 per cent , but the yield for biopsy was only 60 per cent . of 28 patients undergoing operative exploration , 75 per cent were resectable . nine patients received postresectional adjuvant therapy . five had chemotherapy ; three , radiotherapy , and one patient , a combination of the two . primary nonsurgical treatment consisted of chemotherapy in 11 , radiotherapy in two and combined therapy in one instance . three of five recurrences were successfully treated . the five year survival rate was 65 per cent without significant differences between surgical and nonsurgical regimens . those with tumors smaller than 7 centimeters had a five year survival rate of 100 per cent versus 50 per cent for larger neoplasms . patients more than 60 years of age appeared to have a more favorable course after surgical therapy compared with those who had nonsurgical treatment . we concluded that endoscopy is a most useful , although limited diagnostic study and since no treatment program is obviously superior , the choice of therapy can be individualized accordingly . 
effect of closing dead space on incidence of seroma after mastectomy . seromas are a significant cause of morbidity after modified radical mastectomy . the effect of closing dead space by suturing skin flaps to underlying muscle combined with early removal ( 48 hours postoperatively ) of closed suction drains on formation of the seroma was evaluated prospectively in 37 patients . thirty-three underwent modified radical mastectomy for invasive carcinoma while four underwent total mastectomy with a level 1 axillary dissection for multifocal intraductal carcinoma . seromas occurred in three , all were minor , two required one aspiration only and one required two aspirations . two were seromas of the lower flap while one was an axillary seroma . except for one patient who had a wound hematoma develop , no other instances of morbidity were noted . closing dead space by suturing skin flaps to underlying muscle combined with early removal of closed suction drains is associated with a low incidence of seroma formation after mastectomy . use of this technique has important economic and clinical implications for patients who had mastectomy . 
efficacy of doxazosin in specific hypertensive patient groups . in practice , some of the major problems for the physician who treats hypertension are patients who are resistant to treatment or who have other complicating risk syndromes . therefore the overall efficacy of an antihypertensive agent must include an assessment of effect in patients with serious ancillary problems . in this article , doxazosin is reviewed for its efficacy in the treatment of severe essential hypertension and specific complications or conditions of mild or moderate essential hypertension , namely , left ventricular hypertrophy , hyperlipidemia , noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , renal insufficiency , pheochromocytoma , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , peripheral vascular disease , and smoking . doxazosin is particularly efficacious in many specific subgroups of patients with hypertension , and the results of relevant studies are discussed . 
nutritional approach to cancer prevention with emphasis on vitamins , antioxidants , and carotenoids . the main human cancers are associated with complex life-style related causative , enhancing , and inhibiting factors . tobacco smoking or chewing exposes humans to genotoxic carcinogens and to promoting substances . likewise , western dietary traditions involve certain carcinogens and promoters , whereas oriental traditions implicate other carcinogens and promoters . importantly , in virtually all situations regular intake of fruits and vegetables appreciably lowers the risk of cancer . this paper reviews the causes of the main human cancers and analyzes the mechanisms of the protective effects of fruits and vegetables . prevention of human cancer requires the definition of optimal levels of recommended daily allowances of micronutrients . 
effects of carotenoids in cellular and animal systems . it has been suggested that carotenoid pigments may function as chemopreventive agents for reducing the risk of cancer in humans . part of this suggestion rests on epidemiological evidence , and part rests on work done in cellular and animal systems . in this article , the experimental evidence for carotenoid inhibition of mutagenicity , malignant transformation , tumor formation , and immunoenhancement is reviewed . although a mechanism for these effects can not yet be identified , it is clear that the overwhelming evidence in these systems would indicate that carotenoids exert an important influence in modulating the actions of carcinogens . 
vegetables , fruits , and carotenoids and the risk of cancer . low intake of vegetables , fruits , and carotenoids is consistently associated with increased risk of lung cancer in both prospective and retrospective studies . in addition , low levels of beta-carotene in serum or plasma are consistently associated with the subsequent development of lung cancer . the simplest explanation is that beta-carotene is protective . since retinol ( preformed vitamin a ) is not related in a similar manner to lung cancer risk , beta-carotene appears to function through a mechanism that does not require conversion into vitamin a. however , the importance of other carotenoids and other constituents of vegetables and fruit has not been adequately explored . both prospective and retrospective studies suggest that vegetable and fruit intake may reduce the risk of cancers of the mouth , pharynx , larynx , esophagus , stomach , colon , rectum , bladder , and cervix . but because of fewer studies and less consistency among studies , the epidemiologic evidence is at present less persuasive than for lung cancer . 
prediagnostic serum levels of carotenoids and vitamin e as related to subsequent cancer in washington county , maryland . in 1974 and 1975 , serum specimens were collected from 25,802 volunteers in washington county , maryland . the serum was kept frozen at -73 degrees c until the time of assay . prediagnostic samples from 436 cancer cases and 765 matched control subjects have been assayed . nine sites have been studied : colon , rectum , pancreas , lung , melanoma , basal cell of skin , breast , prostate , and bladder . serum beta-carotene levels showed a strong protective association with lung cancer , suggestive protective associations with melanoma and bladder cancer , and a suggestive but nonprotective association with rectal cancer . serum vitamin e levels had a protective association with lung cancer ; none of the other sites showed impressive associations . low levels of serum lycopene were strongly associated with pancreatic cancer and less strongly associated with cancer of the bladder and rectum . 
beta-carotene and cancer prevention : the basel study . in 1971-1973 at the third examination of the basel study started in 1959 , the major antioxidant vitamins and carotene were measured in the plasma of 2974 men . a subsample and their families were reinvestigated in 1977-79 . during the 12-y observation period ( 1973-85 ) 553 men died , 204 of cancer ( lung cancer 68 , stomach cancer 20 ; colon cancer 17 , all other malignancies 99 ) . we found significantly lower mean carotene levels for all cancer , bronchus cancer , and stomach cancer ( all p less than 0.01 ) compared with the 2421 survivors . the relative risk of subjects with low carotene ( less than 0.23 mumol/l ) was significantly elevated ( p less than 0.05 ) for lung cancer ( cox 's model ) . higher risks were noted for all cancer ( p less than 0.01 ) if both carotene and retinol were low . low plasma carotene which is known to reflect carotene intake is in our study associated with increased cancer risk . 
vitamin c and cancer prevention : the epidemiologic evidence . epidemiologic evidence of a protective effect of vitamin c for non-hormone-dependent cancers is strong . of the 46 such studies in which a dietary vitamin c index was calculated , 33 found statistically significant protection , with high intake conferring approximately a twofold protective effect compared with low intake . of 29 additional studies that assessed fruit intake , 21 found significant protection . for cancers of the esophagus , larynx , oral cavity , and pancreas , evidence for a protective effect of vitamin c or some component in fruit is strong and consistent . for cancers of the stomach , rectum , breast , and cervix there is also strong evidence . several recent lung cancer studies found significant protective effects of vitamin c or of foods that are better sources of vitamin c than of beta-carotene . it is likely that ascorbic acid , carotenoids , and other factors in fruits and vegetables act jointly . increased consumption of fruits and vegetables in general should be encouraged . 
vitamin e and cancer prevention . some animal experiments and human studies suggest that vitamin e may protect against cancer . serum alpha-tocopherol concentration was studied for its prediction of cancer in a cohort of 36,265 adults in finland . during a mean follow-up of 8 y , cancer was diagnosed in 766 persons . the levels of serum alpha-tocopherol were determined from stored serum samples ( at -20 degrees c ) taken from these cancer patients and from 1419 matched control subjects . individuals with a low level of alpha-tocopherol had about a 1.5-fold risk of cancer compared with those with a higher level . the strength of the association between serum alpha-tocopherol level and cancer risk varied for different cancer sites and was strongest for some gastrointestinal cancers and for the combined group of cancers unrelated to smoking . the association was strongest among nonsmoking men and among women with low levels of serum selenium . the findings agree with the hypothesis that dietary vitamin e in some circumstances protects against cancer . 
gastric juice ascorbic acid : effects of disease and implications for gastric carcinogenesis . n-nitroso compounds ( noc ) are strongly implicated in the causation of cancer of the stomach and it has been suggested that ascorbic acid might reduce the risk of gastric cancer by preventing their formation within gastric juice . however , until recently there have been no measurements of gastric juice ascorbic acid concentrations . we have measured both gastric juice ascorbic and total vitamin c ( ascorbic acid and dehydroascorbic acid ) . our findings suggest that ascorbic acid is secreted into the gastric lumen so that gastric juice concentrations are often greater than those in plasma . gastric pathology affects this secretion , leading to values in gastric juice that are lower than plasma levels . stimulation of gastric secretion does not raise vitamin c concentrations in individuals whose values are initially low . the role of ascorbic acid in preventing formation of noc and protecting against gastric cancer is discussed in the light of these findings . 
potential role of beta-carotene in prevention of oral cancer . recent data suggests that retinoids and carotenoids may be effective in reversing a putative " field cancerization " defect in the epithelium at risk for oral cancer . animal experiments have shown that these compounds can inhibit cancer formation . several clinical trials have demonstrated the ability of retinoids to reverse oral leukoplakia . however , toxicities associated with retinoids at the doses used in these studies limits their potential for chemoprevention . because of its lack of toxicity , beta-carotene is a very attractive agent for chemoprevention . it suppresses micronuclei in exfoliated oral mucosal cells from subjects at risk for oral cancer and recently has been shown to be active in reversing leukoplakia . another area under investigation is the possibility of preventing second primary tumors in patients cured of their initial cancer who have an increased risk of developing new cancers of the upper acrodigestive tract . 
remission of precancerous lesions in the oral cavity of tobacco chewers and maintenance of the protective effect of beta-carotene or vitamin a. participants in the intervention trials were fishermen ( kerala , india ) , who chewed tobacco-containing betel quids daily before and throughout the study period . frequency of oral leukoplakia , micronuclei in oral mucosal cells , and alterations in nuclear textures were used as endpoints . administration of vitamin a ( 60 mg/wk ) for 6-mo resulted in complete remission of leukoplakias in 57 % and a reduction of micronucleated cells in 96 % of tobacco-chewers . beta-carotene ( 2.2 mmol/wk ) induced remission of leukoplakia in 14.8 % and reduction of micronucleated cells in 98 % . vitamin a completely suppressed and beta-carotene suppressed by 50 % formation of new leukoplakia within the 6-mo trial period . after withdrawal of vitamin a or beta-carotene treatment , oral leukoplakias reappeared , frequency of micronuclei in oral mucosa increased , and nuclear textures reverted to those present before the administration of chemo-preventive agents . the protective effect of the original treatment could be maintained for at least 8 additional months by administration of lower doses of vitamin a or beta-carotene . 
studies evaluating antioxidants and beta-carotene as chemopreventives . cancer chemoprevention research takes leads from epidemiologic and laboratory research and develops them through in vitro and in vivo preclinical research and initial human studies into randomized controlled clinical trials . at present , the chemoprevention program is sponsoring 21 human efficacy studies . these trials are testing the potential of agents ( beta-carotene , folic acid , 13-cis retinoic acid , 4-hydroxyphenyl retinamide , vitamins c and e , and minerals ) as inhibitors of a variety of cancers in humans ( colon , lung , esophagus , cervix , bladder , and skin ) . endpoints in these studies include overall incidence of cancer , incidence of specific cancers , rate of regression or progression of preneoplastic changes , and changes in cellular or biochemical parameters . study participants include volunteers from the general population ; populations at high risk for cancer because of occupation , lifestyle , or place of residence ; persons with previously treated cancers ; and persons with preneoplastic lesions . study designs include single agent randomization , combination of agents and complete factorial designs . 
premalignant lesions : role of antioxidant vitamins and beta-carotene in risk reduction and prevention of malignant transformation . epidemiological studies have shown that diets rich in one or more antioxidant nutrients may reduce the risk of cancers of the lung , uterine cervix , mouth , and gastrointestinal tract . study of premalignant lesions offers a comparatively expedient approach to identifying and evaluating the efficacy of the cancer chemopreventive components of foods . some recent findings suggest roles for beta-carotene and/or vitamin c in reversing or reducing the risk of cervical dysplasia and oral leukoplakia . there are some indications that vitamin c and beta-carotene may reduce the risk of atrophic gastritis and gastric cancer . additional epidemiological and molecular biology studies and clinical intervention trials using premalignant lesions as the marker of specific cancer risks should become an important component of future research in the area of cancer chemoprevention . 
nevus flammeus . discordance in monozygotic twins . nevus flammeus has been described as an inherited vascular anomaly . we report two cases of nevus flammeus , each appearing in one of two monozygotic twins . this finding supports the idea that nevus flammeus results from embryologic mishap rather than genetic transmission . 
interaction of chloramphenicol and metabolites with colony stimulating factors : possible role in chloramphenicol-induced bone marrow injury . we have recently demonstrated that two chloramphenicol ( cap ) metabolites known to be produced by intestinal bacteria , dehydro-cap ( dh-cap ) and nitrophenylaminopropane ( npap ) , are much more cytotoxic to bone marrow in vitro than cap itself . since colony stimulating factors ( csfs ) play an essential role in hematopoietic cell growth , toxicity from cap metabolites could also involve interaction with csf or csf-producing cells . in the present study , we found that increasing concentrations of rhgm-csf or rhg-csf completely reversed the inhibitory effect of cap ( 2 x 10 ( -4 ) m ) on human cfu-gm growth and on the growth of kg-1 cells . gm-csf also reversed the inhibitory effect of cap on hl-60 cells . inhibition by dh-cap ( 50 % at 5 x 10 ( -7 ) m ) , nitroso-cap ( no-cap ) ( 60 % at 5 x 10 ( -6 ) m ) and npap ( 35 % at 10 ( -5 ) m ) was not affected by either csf . in addition to their inhibitory effect on cell growth , dh-cap ( 5 x 10 ( -6 ) m ) and no-cap ( 5 x 10 ( -6 ) m ) inhibited csf production by buffy coat cells 50-70 % without affecting cell viability . neither cap nor npap inhibited csf production . it is suggested that the dual toxic-inhibitory effect of some intestinal metabolites of cap such as dh-cap on hematopoietic cell growth on the one hand , and on csf production on the other , renders them very potent as potential mediators of cap induced aplastic anemia . 
kaposi 's sarcoma involvement of the bone marrow . kaposi 's sarcoma ( ks ) is a predominantly cutaneous malignancy with several clinical variants . extracutaneous sites of involvement are uncommon in all disease variants except epidemic ks ( human immunodeficiency virus related ) and the african lymphadenopathic variant . extracutaneous ks usually involves the lymph nodes , gastrointestinal tract , and respiratory tract . the authors report the first description of a patient with classic ks to have bone marrow involvement . two additional patients with ks variants and bone marrow involvement have been described . bone marrow tumor invasion should be considered in patients with ks and hematologic abnormalities . 
ethanol causes accelerated g1 arrest in differentiating hl-60 cells . the effects of clinically relevant ethanol concentrations on myeloid differentiation in the hl-60 cell promyelocytic leukemia line have been studied . the exposure of noninduced stem cells to 60 mm ethanol results in an increase in g1 cells , but there is no increase in superoxide production or expression of the mo1 antigen . when hl-60 cells are induced to differentiate along the myeloid line with dimethylsulfoxide ( dmso ) or retinoic acid ( ra ) , there is a shift to smaller cell size , an increase in g1 cells and acquisition of the ability to produce superoxide as reported previously by several authors . when ethanol is present during differentiation , there are further increases in g1 cells , and increases in the percentage of cells which produce superoxide and express mo1 , and decreases in mean cell size and total growth during the incubation period . regrowth experiments after periods of differentiation indicate that the increased g1 arrest seen in the presence of ethanol represents terminal commitment if inducer is present , but in the absence of inducer the increased g1 percentage is readily reversible . examination of rna content by flow cytometry reveals a decrease in both the peak and mean g1 rna content during dmso or ra induced differentiation . these decreases are accentuated by the presence of ethanol , resulting in a higher g1a/g1b ratio than in nonexposed cells . these findings indicate that ethanol enhances g1 growth arrest in hl-60 cells exposed to myeloid inducers . partial differentiation occurs during this process , resulting in terminally arrested cells , some of which have undergone fewer postinduction cell divisions than normal and may not be fully competent . 
herpes zoster ophthalmicus and iris cysts . herpes zoster ophthalmicus has been associated with numerous complications such as neuropathy , keratitis , anterior uveitis , and neuralgia . to my knowledge , there have been no reports of secondary iris cyst formation . i hereby report the case of a patient who developed an iris cyst during a herpes zoster ophthalmicus infection . 
childhood blindness in peru . a survey of childhood blindness in peruvian children was done . although most causes of blindness were due to congenital and hereditary conditions , measles accounted for almost 10 % of blindness . with widespread measles immunization , this preventable cause of blindness in children can be eliminated or dramatically reduced . 
magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography in pediatric head and neck masses . fifty-three magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) and 25 computed tomography ( ct ) studies of 53 head and neck masses in pediatric patients were reviewed retrospectively . all lesions had pathologic proof except for 2 metastatic and 2 recurrent lesions , which only had prior pathologic confirmation at their primary sites . these included 12 malignant tumors , 23 benign tumors , 6 inflammatory masses , and 12 congenital lesions . the mri performance ranged predominantly from good to excellent in detection of the lesion and the extent of involvement and in contrast to the surrounding tissue ; when ct comparison was available , mri proved to be equal to or better than it in detection of these factors and in preoperative diagnosis . our results suggest that mri should be the method of choice for the initial evaluation of the pediatric head and neck region , especially in those patients requiring multiple examinations . however , ct and mri should be used conjunctively in complicated cases , especially those possibly involving lesions with calcifications or bony involvement . 
vertical partial laryngectomy : a critical analysis of local recurrence . the purpose of this study was to evaluate local recurrence following vertical partial laryngectomies in 416 patients with either t1n0m0 or t2n0m0 glottic carcinoma . local failure was reported according to the t stage , the precise tumor location within each stage , the true vocal cord mobility , and the surgical procedure performed . no local recurrences were observed among 42 patients who underwent thyrotomy and cordectomy when the tumor was confined to the middle third of the mobile true vocal cord . local failure occurred in 8 of 111 ( 7.2 % ) patients in whom hemilaryngectomy was performed for tumors confined to one mobile true vocal cord . there was a diverse group of lesions within each t stage that responded differently to the surgical approaches . the differences in the initial recurrence rates are discussed in terms of careful preoperative assessment and choice of surgical technique for early glottic carcinoma . 
hemangioma of the temporalis muscle . a rare case of an intramuscular hemangioma of the temporalis muscle is reported . the clinical examination , carotid arteriogram , computed tomographic scan , and aspiration cytology suggested the vascular nature of the tumor , but an exact diagnosis could only be made after histopathologic examination . temporary occlusion of the ipsilateral external carotid artery and subperiosteal dissection permitted complete , wide excision without much bleeding . 
undifferentiated carcinomas of salivary glands . undifferentiated carcinomas of salivary glands are those epithelial malignancies whose light-optic histopathologic features are not sufficient to place them in other defined classes of carcinoma . they are ultrastructurally heterogeneous and can manifest neuroendocrine differentiation . with or without the latter , the carcinomas are biologically high-grade and rank with salivary duct and high-grade mucoepidermoid carcinomas in terms of morbidity and mortality . 
cholangiocarcinoma complicating primary sclerosing cholangitis . cholangiocarcinoma is more likely to develop in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis . our aims were to describe the clinical presentation , course , and management of patients afflicted with both cholangiocarcinoma and primary sclerosing cholangitis and to estimate the prevalence of cholangiocarcinoma in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis . a retrospective analysis was conducted of 30 patients with both primary sclerosing cholangitis and cholangiocarcinoma managed at our institution during an 8-year period . development of cholangiocarcinoma was heralded by rapid clinical deterioration with jaundice , weight loss , and abdominal discomfort . cholangiocarcinoma complicating primary sclerosing cholangitis often was detected at an advanced tumor stage , which precluded effective therapy , and overall median survival was 5 months . earlier recognition and treatment of cholangiocarcinoma in such patients will be necessary to increase survival rates . seventy patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis were followed prospectively in a clinical trial of medical therapy for an average of 30 months . twelve patients died and five were found at autopsy to have cholangiocarcinoma . the potential for cholangiocarcinoma to develop in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis may indicate that liver transplantation should be considered earlier in the course of the disease . 
a clinical pilot study combining surgery with intraoperative pelvic hyperthermochemotherapy to prevent the local recurrence of rectal cancer . intraoperative pelvic hyperthermochemotherapy ( iophc ) with mitomycin c ( mmc ) was prescribed for 14 patients with resectable advanced rectal cancer in an attempt to prevent a postoperative local recurrence . immediately after rectal amputation and extended lymphadenectomy , iophc was performed using physiologic saline containing 40 micrograms/ml of mmc at 45.5 + / - 0.6 c for 90 minutes , with an apparatus devised for iophc . at the end of iophc , the esophageal temperature was 37.2 + / - 0.8 c and cooling was not required . antitumor efficacy and complications in the iophc group were compared with findings in 12 rectal cancer patients who underwent surgery only within the same period of time . operation time was not prolonged with iophc treatment . in cytologic examinations of the pelvic lavage just before iophc treatment , viable cancer cells were detected in 6 of the 14 patients but were never detected in the postoperative exudate drained from the pelvic cavity . of the 12 patients in the control group , 2 had a local recurrence , while in the iophc group there was no local recurrence for 16.9 + / - 9.7 months at this writing . postoperative complications did not differ between the groups . this iophc treatment is a favorable method in eradicating cancer cells for postoperative local recurrence of rectal cancer . 
locally recurrent parathyroid neoplasms as a cause for recurrent and persistent primary hyperparathyroidism . between 1982 and 1989 , 145 patients underwent operations for persistent or recurrent primary hyperparathyroidism ( hpt ) . at re-exploration , 15 patients ( 10.3 % ) were found to have locally recurrent parathyroid tumors ( 11 patients with adenoma and 4 with carcinoma ) . these 15 patients had 28 previous operations at outside institutions for hpt . patients with locally recurrent hpt secondary to adenoma had a longer disease-free interval than patients with locally recurrent carcinoma . at the time of evaluation at the national institutes of health ( nih ) for recurrent or persistent hpt , each patient was symptomatic and patients with carcinoma had significantly more symptoms and higher serum levels of calcium and parathyroid hormone than patients with adenoma . locally recurrent parathyroid neoplasm was correctly localized by preoperative testing in 14 of 15 patients . these 15 patients underwent 18 reoperations at nih for excision of locally recurrent parathyroid tumors . following the final reoperation ( two patients had more than one procedure ) , each patient had normal serum levels of calcium . in addition each patient remains biochemically cured ( based on normal serum calcium level ) , with a median follow-up interval of 21 months . local recurrence of parathyroid adenoma comprises a small but significant proportion of cases of recurrent or persistent hpt and can be indistinguishable from parathyroid carcinoma . findings suggestive of carcinoma include shorter disease-free interval , higher serum levels of calcium and parathyroid hormone , and histologic appearance . whether the locally recurrent parathyroid neoplasm is benign or malignant , aggressive surgery can control serum levels of calcium in these patients with acceptable rates of morbidity . 
synthesis of type i collagen in healing wounds in humans . to quantify wound healing in surgical patients , samples of wound fluid were collected through a silicone rubber tube for 7 postoperative days and their concentrations of the carboxyterminal propeptide of type i procollagen ( picp ) and the aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen ( piiinp ) were measured with specific radioimmunoassays . the mean concentration of picp in would fluid on day 1 was 207 + / - 92 ( sd ) micrograms/l , and on day 2 908 + / - 469 micrograms/l ( p less than 0.001 , signed rank test ) . on day 7 , the mean concentration reached was 380 times higher than that of day 1 ( 79,330 + / - 54,151 micrograms/l ) . only one peak of picp antigenicity , corresponding to the intact propeptide as set free during synthesis of type i procollagen , was detected on sephacryl s-300 gel filtration analysis of wound fluid samples . the mean concentration of piiinp was 70 + / - 61 micrograms/l on day 1 , 86 + / - 88 micrograms/l on day 2 , and 180 + / - 129 micrograms/l on day 3 ( p less than 0.001 when compared with day 1 ) . finally on day 7 , a 250-fold concentration ( 17,812 + / - 9839 micrograms/l ) , compared with day 1 , was reached . methods described in the present paper allow separate and repetitive quantification of the synthesis of both type i and type iii procollagen during human wound healing . 
rupture of a benign mediastinal teratoma into the right pleural cavity . a 27-year-old woman with a ruptured mediastinal cystic teratoma had high levels of amylase and carcinoembryonic antigen in cystic fluid . the activity of the amylase is thought to be the most likely cause of the rupture . high levels of carcinoembryonic antigen in pleural fluid are not necessarily indicative of a malignant lesion but may suggest the presence of a ruptured teratoma in patients with mediastinal tumors . 
tricuspid valve papillary fibroelastoma : echocardiographic characterization . we report a tricuspid valve papillary fibroelastoma initially detected by transthoracic two-dimensional echocardiography and subsequently characterized by transesophageal two-dimensional echocardiography . the mass was excised during open heart operation , and the diagnosis was verified grossly and histopathologically . transesophageal echocardiography usually provides images far superior to those from transthoracic echocardiography and may be a useful adjunct for intraoperative localization of intracardiac tumors for excision . 
rectus abdominis muscle flap with microvascular anastomoses for repair of recurrent sarcoma . after radical resection of a recurrent leiomyosarcoma , the thoracic wall was stabilized with a gore-tex graft . the skin and soft tissue defect was repaired with a large rectus abdominis flap in which the circulation was secured by end-to-end microvascular anastomosis of the inferior epigastric artery to the internal mammary artery , which had to be cut during tumor removal . 
thymoma : results of 241 operated cases clinical and histopathological aspects of 241 thymomas were reviewed . one hundred sixty of the patients with thymoma had myasthenia gravis and 15 had other autoimmune diseases ; 55 % of the thymomas were encapsulated and 45 % invasive . operation was radical resection in 87.5 % of the patients , subtotal resection with residual tumor in 8.7 % , and simple biopsy in 3.7 % . a tumor relapse was observed in 24 patients ( 10 % ) : 2 ( 1.5 % ) of 133 with encapsulated thymomas and 22 ( 20.4 % ) of 108 with invasive thymomas ; among these patients , a relapse was found in 20.6 % of the patients who received radiotherapy postoperatively and in 24.6 % who did not . adverse prognostic factors were clinical stage iva ( multiple pleural nodes ) , not feasible resection ( for technical reasons ) , inoperable tumor relapse , and association with one of the following autoimmune diseases : pure red cell aplasia , hypogammaglobulinemia , and lupus erythematosus . conversely , myasthenia gravis is now a curable disease ; it contributes to early discovery of associated thymoma , thus allowing a better survival for patients with thymoma who have myasthenia gravis compared with patients with thymoma but without myasthenia gravis ( p less than 0.05 ) . postoperative radiotherapy does not seem necessary after removal of encapsulated thymomas , but it is advisable in case of invasive thymomas , regardless of the extent of the resection . 
multiple primary bronchogenic carcinomas : treatment and follow-up . a second primary bronchogenic carcinoma subsequently developed 8 to 156 months later in 19 patients who underwent curative resection of primary bronchogenic carcinomas . the second primary tumor was treated by surgical resection in 9 patients , 3 patients ' tumors were considered unresectable , and the remaining 7 patients , despite having potentially resectable tumors , did not undergo resection because of insufficient pulmonary reserve or unwillingness to undergo resection . actuarial life-table analysis of survival for the 9 patients who underwent resection showed a median survival time of 110.3 months compared with 19 months for the group with unresected but resectable tumors and 10.5 months for the group with unresectable tumors . there was no operative mortality in the group with resected tumors . we conclude that in patients in whom a second primary carcinoma of the lung develops , surgical resection prolongs survival and can be performed with a low operative mortality . 
the impact of physician compliance on screening mammography for older women . screening mammography is underutilized , even for women older than 50 years for whom there is a general consensus that regular annual screening is appropriate and necessary . to evaluate reasons for this underutilization , we studied a random sample of 517 women in los angeles , calif who were older than 50 years . all women were found to be underscreened , especially women older than 65 years . for example , approximately 35 % of women 50 to 64 years old and 47 % of women aged 65 years and older never had had even one mammogram . analyses revealed that the most important factor that predicted whether a women ever had had a mammogram was whether her physician had talked to her about mammography . women were between four and 12 times more likely , depending on their age group , to have had a mammogram at some time if their physicians discussed it with them . the discussions did not need to be lengthy or complex . these results indicate that physicians need to know that discussing screening mammography with their patients has a major impact on breast cancer screening behaviors . 
the relationship of papanicolaou testing and contacts with the medical care system to stage at diagnosis of cervical cancer . the relationship of papanicolaou ( pap ) testing and physician visits to stage at diagnosis of cervical cancer was assessed by interviews with 149 women with invasive cervical cancer and 214 women with in situ cervical cancer . a significantly smaller percent of study subjects with invasive disease than in situ disease had at least one pap test in the 3 years prior to diagnosis ( age - and race-adjusted odds ratio : 3.38 ) . the two groups did not differ in visits to a physician for other reasons during this period . pap testing decreased with increasing age for both groups , but not physician visits . while 65 % percent of the subjects with invasive disease aged between 65 and 79 years had never had a pap test until diagnosis , 88 % had seen a physician in the preceding 3 years . women with regional or distant invasive disease were least likely to have had pap tests , and , within this group , those aged between 35 and 64 years were also least likely to have seen a physician . strategies for early detection must reflect missed opportunities and the need to bring those not receiving care into the system . 
menopausal estrogen replacement therapy and breast cancer we conducted a meta-analysis of the literature concerning breast cancer and estrogen replacement therapy . the overall relative risk of breast cancer associated with this therapy was 1.07 . however , the variation of the estimated risks among the studies was far greater than could plausibly be explained by chance alone . to explain this variation , we looked at the effects of type , duration , and dosage of treatment . overall , women who took 0.625 mg/d or less of conjugated estrogens had a risk of breast cancer that was 1.08 times that of women who did not receive this therapy ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 0.96 to 1.2 ) . the relative risks from these individual studies of low-dosage therapy did not differ significantly from each other . women who took 1.25 mg/d or more of conjugated estrogens had a breast cancer relative risk of 2.0 or less in all studies . however , the variation in observed risks at this higher dosage was significant . this implies that other risk factors varied among these studies , making it difficult to estimate the overall risk associated with this dosage . the relative risk of breast cancer associated with estrogen replacement therapy among women with a history of benign breast disease was 1.16 ( 95 % ci , 0.89 to 1.5 ) . the combined results from multiple studies provide strong evidence that menopausal therapy consisting of 0.625 mg/d or less of conjugated estrogens does not increase breast cancer risk . 
decreased mortality in users of estrogen replacement therapy in a prospective study of 8881 postmenopausal female residents of a retirement community in southern california , we evaluated in detail the relationship between estrogen use and overall mortality . after 7 1/2 years of follow-up , there had been 1447 deaths . women with a history of estrogen use had 20 % lower age-adjusted , all-cause mortality than lifetime nonusers ( 95 % confidence interval , 0.70 to 0.87 ) . mortality decreased with increasing duration of use and was lower among current users than among women who used estrogens only in the distant past . current users with more than 15 years of estrogen use had a 40 % reduction in their overall mortality . among oral estrogen users , relative risks of death could not be distinguished by specific dosages of the oral estrogen taken for the longest time . women who had used estrogen replacement therapy had a reduced mortality from all categories of acute and chronic arteriosclerotic disease and cerebrovascular disease . this group of women had a reduced mortality from cancer , although this reduction was not statistically significant . the mortality from all remaining causes combined was the same in estrogen users and lifetime nonusers . 
combined hepatic and vena caval resection with autogenous caval graft replacement . right-sided and caudate hepatic lobectomy with resection of the retrohepatic vena cava were performed in a 34-year-old woman with recurrent adrenal carcinoma . the vena cava was replaced with a graft constructed from autogenous superficial femoral vein . included herein is a review of the literature detailing the three previously reported cases of combined hepatic and caval resection ; to our knowledge , there are no prior reports of the use of an autogenous vein graft in this setting . with surgical and anesthetic techniques , including total vascular exclusion of the liver and venovenous bypass , methods that were developed in large part through experience in liver transplantation , this type of surgery can be performed with a high rate of success . 
photodynamic therapy to treat tumors of the extrahepatic biliary ducts . a case report . the poor survival rate of patients with extrahepatic bile duct tumors is well documented . over the course of 4 years , we treated a white woman with diabetes diagnosed with histologically proven adenocarcinoma of the common bile duct with six injections of dihematoporphyrin ether followed by seven photodynamic therapy treatments to the biliary duct . as of july 1989 , the patient was still alive , was not jaundiced , and had a karnofsky performance status of 70 . no changes occurred in any blood chemistry value from the time of injection to the time of photodynamic therapy . of the transient elevations of some blood chemistry values and the white blood cell count , which occurred within 24 to 48 hours after photodynamic therapy , only those of alanine aminotransferase , aspartate aminotransferase , and amylase were significant . 
the changing face of dermatology out-patient referrals in the south-east of scotland . a study of out-patient dermatological services ( nhs and private ) in the south-east of scotland was carried out by medical staff in the department of dermatology in edinburgh during the month of november 1988 . the aim was to assess changes in referral patterns and workload compared with the findings of an identical investigation undertaken in november 1981 . of particular interest were the possible effects of recent publicity campaigns aimed at increasing public awareness about skin cancer . the medical complement of the dermatology department had changed minimally since 1981 and the population increase in the south-east of scotland over the same period was 1.5 % . during november 1988 1592 new patients and 2037 review patients were seen . this represented an increase of 29.2 % and 28.3 % , respectively , since 1981 . the most striking changes in diagnostic groups were a 173 % rise in new cases presenting with benign tumours ( excluding viral warts ) and a 106 % increase in new patients with malignant tumours . viral warts and eczema were , as in 1981 , the second and third most common diagnostic categories amongst new patients . there was a 98 % increase in the number of surgical procedures performed on new patients compared with 1981 . we conclude that the substantial increase in numbers of both benign and malignant tumours and the consequent doubling in surgical treatments was due to increased public awareness and concern about skin cancer . 
pigmented spindle cell naevus . we report 22 cases of pigmented spindle cell naevus ( pscn ) . the usual appearance of these naevi is that of a heavily pigmented papule found mostly on the legs of young patients . histologically , pscn was characterized by symmetrical proliferation of spindle-shaped pigmented melanocytes grouped in large junctional nests . pagetoid spread of single cells in the overlying epidermis was frequently found . in our opinion , pscn is a distinctive benign acquired melanocytic naevus that in the past has been frequently misdiagnosed as atypical spitz naevi or malignant melanoma . 
factor xiiia in nodular malignant melanoma and spitz naevi . the distribution of factor xiiia-positive dermal dendritic cells was studied in a series of nodular malignant melanomas and compared with that seen in spitz naevi . two patterns of distribution were recognizable : ( a ) diffusely spread through the tumour and ( b ) located mainly at the periphery of the tumour . these did not correlate with the diagnosis of melanoma or spitz naevus and the distribution appeared to be a function of growth pattern of the tumour . the diffuse pattern was the most common regardless of diagnosis and the distribution of factor xiiia-positive cells is the same in malignant melanoma and spitz naevi . 
necrolytic migratory erythema : association with neuroendocrine tumour with predominant insulin secretion . we report a case of necrolytic migratory erythema in association with a neuroendocrine tumour producing predominantly insulin . as far as we know this has not been observed before . 
angiotropic b-cell lymphoma ( malignant angioendotheliomatosis ) : failure of systemic chemotherapy . a 65-year-old female with angiotropic b-cell lymphoma is reported . despite the absence of systemic involvement on formal staging and the favourable response of the cutaneous lesions to triple systemic chemotherapy with prednisolone , vincristine and cyclophosphamide , postmortem findings showed that death was due to widespread disease dissemination . 
donor leukocyte transfusions for treatment of recurrent chronic myelogenous leukemia in marrow transplant patients . three patients with hematologic relapse after bone marrow transplantation for chronic myelogenous leukemia were treated with interferon alpha and transfusion of viable donor buffy coat . all had complete hematologic and cytogenetic remission , which persisted 32 to 91 weeks after treatment . in two patients graft-versus-host disease developed and was treated by immunosuppression . these results are an example of adoptive immunotherapy without cytoreductive chemotherapy or radiotherapy in human chimeras . 
expression of leukocyte alkaline phosphatase gene in normal and leukemic cells : regulation of the transcript by granulocyte colony-stimulating factor . the levels of leukocyte alkaline phosphatase ( lap ) messenger rna ( mrna ) are evaluated in b and t lymphocytes , monocytes , and polymorphonuclear cells ( pmns ) , and this transcript is found to be present only in pmns . precursors of the myelomonocytic pathway , represented by leukemic cells isolated from several cases of chronic myelogenous leukemia ( cml ) in its stable and blastic phase and acute myelogenous leukemia ( aml ) , are devoid of lap transcript . these data support the notion that lap is a marker of the granulocyte terminal differentiation . despite the absence of lap mrna in both the myeloid and the lymphoid precursors , nuclear run-on experiments show constitutive transcription of the lap gene in leukemic cells obtained from aml , cml , as well as acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) and b-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( b-cll ) . in cml and in chronic myelo-monocytic leukemia ( cmml ) pmns , granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( g-csf ) specifically accumulates lap mrna without showing a substantial increase in the rate of transcription of the lap gene . once increased by g-csf , lap mrna is very stable , showing a half-life of more than 4 hours in the presence of actinomycin-d . g-csf is suggested to play a pivotal role in the modulation of lap transcript in pmns . 
monoclonal antibody to the interferon-inducible protein leu-13 triggers aggregation and inhibits proliferation of leukemic b cells . interferon ( ifn ) - alpha inhibits dna synthesis stimulated by low molecular weight b-cell growth factor ( bcgf ) in hairy cells in vitro , suggesting that the therapeutic efficacy of ifn-alpha in hairy cell leukemia ( hcl ) involves growth inhibition of malignant b cells . evidence that the 16-kd cell surface protein leu-13 mediates an antiproliferative signal in t lymphocytes and is ifn-inducible in endothelial cells prompted us to examine the expression and functional role of this molecule in leukemic b cells . leu-13 density , determined by flow cytometry , was upregulated in vitro and in vivo by ifn-alpha on malignant b cells from patients with hcl , chronic lymphocytic leukemia , and prolymphocytic leukemia . monoclonal anti-leu-13 triggered homotypic aggregation of leukemic b cells via an adhesion pathway that was not inhibited by antibodies to leukocyte function associated antigen-1 ( lfa-1 ) or intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( icam-1 ) . moreover , anti-leu-13 potentiated the inhibitory effects of ifn-alpha on bcgf-stimulated dna synthesis , assessed by [ 3h ] - thymidine and [ 3h ] - deoxyadenosine incorporation into dna . these results indicate that leu-13 is part of a novel ifn-inducible signaling pathway which may modify the growth and adhesive properties of leukemic b cells under physiologic or therapeutic conditions . 
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor synergizes with interleukin-6 in supporting the proliferation of human myeloma cells . the role of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) in the growth of multiple myeloma ( mm ) was investigated in 21 patients with mm . in 17 patients with proliferating myeloma cells in vivo , recombinant gm-csf significantly increased the endogenous-il-6-mediated spontaneous myeloma cell proliferation occurring in 5-day cultures of tumor cells in vitro ( p less than .01 ) . furthermore , gm-csf was detected in 5-day culture supernatants of myeloma bone marrow cells . this endogenous gm-csf was produced by the myeloma bone marrow microenvironment but not by myeloma cells and contributed to the spontaneous myeloma-cell proliferation observed in 5-day cultures . in fact , this proliferation was partially blocked ( 67 % ) by anti-gm-csf monoclonal antibodies . the stimulatory effect of rgm-csf was mediated through il-6 because it was abrogated by anti-il-6 monoclonal antibodies . rgm-csf did not reproducibly increase the endogenous il-6 production in short-term cultures of bone marrow cells of mm patients . using an il-6-dependent myeloma cell line ( xg-1 cell line ) , rgm-csf was shown to act directly on myeloma cells stimulating by twofold their il-6 responsiveness . rgm-csf did not induce any il-6 production in xg-1 cells , nor was it able to sustain their growth alone . although no detectable gm-csf levels were found in the peripheral or bone marrow blood of mm patients , it is possible that gm-csf , produced locally by the tumoral environment , enhances the il-6 responsiveness of myeloma cells in vivo in a way similar to that reported here in vitro . 
hybridization protection assay : a rapid , sensitive , and specific method for detection of philadelphia chromosome-positive leukemias . the philadelphia ( ph1 ) chromosome is present in greater than 90 % of patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia ( cml ) and in 2 % to 20 % of those with acute leukemias , for which it is an important prognostic marker too . the chimeric bcr-abl mrnas resulting from the translocation encode either a 210-kd or a 190-kd protein . the techniques used to detect ph1 chromosome include karyotyping , southern analysis to demonstrate bcr rearrangement , and polymerase chain reaction to amplify the bcr-abl transcripts . however , the routine performance of these methods by clinical laboratories is cumbersome , time consuming , and exposes laboratory personnel to radioisotopes . we describe here the clinical application of a new method , the hybridization protection assay ( hpa ) , which uses chemiluminescent acridinium-ester-labeled probes in conjunction with pcr for detection of the amplified bcr-abl sequences . the method is sensitive , specific , and can reliably distinguish between the transcripts for p190bcr-abl and p210bcr-abl . in contrast to the 2 days or longer required for conventional hybridization , hpa analysis can be completed in less than 30 minutes . we have successfully used this method to analyze 60 leukemia samples ( 34 from ph1-negative acute leukemias ; 6 from ph1-positive acute leukemias ; and 20 from cml ) with complete correlation ( of bcr-abl positivity or negativity ) with the results of karyotype or southern blot analysis of genomic dna for bcr rearrangement . therefore , the hpa , in conjunction with pcr , appears to provide a rapid and reliable test for the diagnosis of ph1-positivity . 
retroviral transformation of cerebral microvascular endothelial cells : macrophage-like and microvascular endothelial cell properties . we report that l-cell-conditioned medium ( lcm ) transforms porcine cerebral microvascular ( pcmv ) endothelial cells into cells with macrophage-like properties . lcm is known to contain both cytokine ( s ) and the l-cell virus , a murine retrovirus found in the l929 cell and lcm . our evidence suggests that both lcm cytokine ( s ) and the l-cell virus are involved in this pcmv endothelial cell transformation . criteria for transformation include focus formation , decreased serum requirements for growth , changes in morphology including nonadherence , propagation in suspension culture , and a decreased growth response to stimulation with a known endothelial cell mitogen . macrophage-like characteristics of this transformed cell , designated as rvte , include pinocytosis of low-density lipoprotein , fc receptor-mediated phagocytosis , phagocytosis of bacteria and zymosan , the expression of macrophage enzyme markers , and constitutive production of colony-stimulating factor 1 . however , the transformed cell retains several properties of the nontransformed cell including the expression of fviii : rag and in vitro self-organization into capillary-like structures . cloning of rvte cells clearly shows that both macrophage-like and cerebral microvascular endothelial cell properties are present in the same cell . during self-organization , nontransformed cells express morphologic and functional characteristics classically associated with the macrophage . these findings suggest that some brain capillary pathophysiologies could involve macrophage-like cerebral microvascular endothelial cells . furthermore , the " reticuloendothelial " phenotypic repertoire expressed by this transformed cerebral microvascular endothelial cell may show that the cerebral capillary endothelial cell in vivo is derived from a hematopoietic and/or phagocytic precursor . 
consistent involvement of the bcr gene by 9 ; 22 breakpoints in pediatric acute leukemias . to investigate the relationship of bcr-abl fusion mrnas with childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemias ( all ) , we examined 27 pediatric philadelphia chromosome ( ph1 ) - positive acute leukemias using a reverse polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) procedure . in cells from 24 leukemias , single bcr-abl pcr products were detected that corresponded to breakpoints in the minor breakpoint cluster region ( mbcr in intron 1 of the bcr gene ) associated with production of the p190 fusion protein . cells from the three remaining leukemias contained breakpoints in the major breakpoint cluster region ( mbcr ) as shown by pcr and southern blot analyses . these three leukemias also contained low levels of the mbcr pcr product that may have resulted from alternative splicing of the bcr-abl precursor rna . a screen of 35 additional leukemias from patients who failed therapy before day 180 ( induction failures or early relapses ) found one case with unsuccessful cytogenetics to express mbcr-abl rna . all four children with mbcr breakpoints had white blood cell levels in excess of 250,000 at presentation ( compared with 2 of 24 with mbcr breakpoints ) and two had hematologic and clinical features suggestive of chronic myelogenous leukemias ( cml ) in lymphoid blast crisis . our results indicate that in ph1-positive pediatric leukemias , all 9 ; 22 breakpoints occur in one of the two known breakpoint cluster regions in the bcr gene on chromosome 22 . the reverse pcr reliably detected all patients with cytogenetic t ( 9 ; 22 ) and is capable of detecting additional ph1-positive leukemias that are missed by standard cytogenetics . furthermore , the mbcr-type breakpoint , associated with production of p210 , can be seen in childhood leukemias presenting either as clinical all or as apparent lymphoid blast crisis of cml , suggesting that t ( 9 ; 22 ) breakpoint locations do not exclusively determine the biologic and clinical features of pediatric ph1-positive all . 
synergistic inhibition by verapamil and quinine of p-glycoprotein-mediated multidrug resistance in a human myeloma cell line model . in an effort to develop a clinically useful approach to overcoming p-glycoprotein-mediated multidrug resistance ( mdr1 ) , we evaluated combined chemosensitization with verapamil and quinine in a multidrug-resistant ( mdr ) human myeloma cell line model . in clonogenic assay , verapamil was used at concentrations from 0.1 to 1.0 micrograms/ml , bracketing the plasma levels achieved by oral administration and high-dose intravenous ( iv ) infusion , respectively . the dose of quinine was held constant at 1.0 micrograms/ml , a plasma concentration readily achieved by oral administration . at each dose level of verapamil tested , the combination with quinine proved more effective than either drug individually in reversing resistance to doxorubicin and vinblastine and synergistic chemosensitizing interaction was observed . verapamil at 0.1 microgram/ml combined with quinine was capable of restoring sensitivity to doxorubicin fully and reduced resistance to vinblastine as effectively as verapamil alone at 1.0 micrograms/ml . furthermore , the combination of 1.0 mumol verapamil with 10 mumols quinine increased accumulation and retention of anthracycline in the resistant cells to a greater extent than did either drug individually ( p less than .001 ) and inhibited drug efflux as effectively as verapamil alone at 10 mumols . our findings suggest that combined chemosensitization with verapamil and quinine may prove useful for overcoming mdr1 in patients with drug-refractory b-cell neoplasms such as multiple myeloma or non-hodgkin 's lymphomas . 
anti-cd33 monoclonal antibody and etoposide/cytosine arabinoside combinations for the ex vivo purification of bone marrow in acute nonlymphocytic leukemia . pharmacologic and immunologic methods of ex-vivo bone marrow ( bm ) purging for acute nonlymphocytic leukemia ( anll ) were combined to augment the effect of either method alone . etoposide ( vp16 ; 20 to 30 micrograms/ml ) with or without cytosine arabinoside ( ara c ; 10 mg/ml ) was used in tandem with the anti-cd33 monoclonal antibody ( moab ) , my9 , chosen because cd33 is found on the stem cell pool in the majority of patients with anll . the agents were tested singly or sequentially , with a 1-hour incubation of the drugs preceding complement-mediated lysis using my9 . vp16 combined with ara c killed up to 3.9 + / - 0.3 and 5.11 + / - 0.4 logs of the human anll cell lines hl60 and k562 at drug concentrations that killed only 1.2 + / - 0.1 logs of normal committed granulocyte/macrophage stem cells ( cfu-gm ) . adding a single exposure of the my9 and complement ( c ' ) to the drug-treated cells , greater than 5.4 logs of hl60 were killed . similar to other pharmacologic agents , no differential kill for clonagenic leukemic cells ( colony-forming unit-leukemia ; cfu-l ) from patients with anll was seen for drug only treated blasts versus normal cfu-granulocyte-macrophage ( cfu-gm ) , with less than 1 log cfu-l kill at drug concentrations that spared 1 log of cfu-gm . similarly , only 1.1 + / - 0.3 logs of anll cfu-l were eliminated using my9 and c ' . however , with the sequential vp16/ara c ---- my9 + c ' treatment , synergy was demonstrated and 2.6 + / - 0.3 logs of cfu-l were eliminated . because cd33 is also found on the normal cfu-gm pool , two-stage long-term bm cultures were performed to determine pluripotent stem cell elimination by the drug/moab purging combination . no difference of cfu-gm or bfu-e production at 4 to 6 weeks of culture for vp16/ara c , my9 + c ' , or vp16/arac ---- my9 + c ' treated cells was seen compared with untreated controls indicating sparing of early progenitor cells . sequential ex vivo treatment of human anll cfu-l with vp16/ara c followed by complement-mediated lysis using my9 synergistically kills cfu-l while sparing early normal hematopoietic progenitor cells , and thus may be a more effective way to purge bm than either alone . 
neutrophil function and pyogenic infections in bone marrow transplant recipients . in a consecutive entry trial , the incidence and time course of decreased neutrophil function was assessed in 20 patients treated with allogeneic bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) . the aim of the study was to assess the prognostic value of low neutrophil function for late pyogenic infections . chemotaxis , superoxide production , and phagocytic-bactericidal activity were studied before and 2 , 6 , 9 , and 12 months after bmt . skin window migration was quantitatively assessed 2 months after bmt . infectious complications were recorded prospectively with preset criteria during 1 year . six of the 20 leukemic patients had defective neutrophil function before bmt . two months after bmt all 10 patients with greater than stage ii graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) , and 6 of 10 patients with less than or equal to stage ii gvhd had at least one decreased function . at this time , patients with subsequent pyogenic infections had lower chemotaxis ( p less than .05 ) , phagocytic-bactericidal activity ( p less than .005 ) , and superoxide production ( p less than .025 ) than those without . defective skin window migration and combined defects were predictive for late pyogenic infections . at 9 months all tests were normal in seven patients surviving without gvhd . in contrast , at 9 months three of three patients , and at 1 year two of three with chronic gvhd had still decreased neutrophil function . in conclusion , neutrophil function is frequently impaired during the first months after bmt . combined neutrophil defects predispose to pyogenic infections and indicate the patient at risk . 
flow cytometry for clinical estimation of circulating hematopoietic progenitors for autologous transplantation in cancer patients . optimum methods of harvesting circulating hematopoietic progenitors for autologous transplantation to support myeloablative cancer therapy are still uncertain , mostly because of the lack of an assay for marrow-repopulating stem cells . the cfu-gm assay , the commonly used indirect indicator of the quality of the graft , is poorly standardized and provides results evaluable only retrospectively . based on the knowledge that hematopoietic progenitors express cd34 and cd33 differentiation antigens , we developed a dual-color direct immunofluorescence flow cytometry assay with the aim of replacing the cfu-gm assay advantageously . for this purpose , we applied both assays to 157 blood samples obtained daily throughout 20 different recoveries from pancytopenia induced by high-dose cyclophosphamide or etoposide cancer therapy with or without recombinant human gm colony-stimulating factor ( rhgm-csf ) . the appearance of cd34 + cells in the circulation indicated that hematopoietic progenitors had increased to more than 500 cfu-gm/ml , a level clinically adequate for large-scale harvest by leukapheresis . total cd34 + cells correlated well with cfu-gm ( r = .89 ) , and data could be fitted by a linear regression line described by the equation y = 388.3 + 64.0 x , where y = cfu-gm/ml and x = cd34 + cells per microliter . moreover , in a series of six patients treated with myeloablative chemoradiotherapy , early hematopoietic recovery of marrow functions was predicted more accurately by the number of transplanted cd34 + / cd33 + cells than by either total nucleated cells , cfu-gm , cd34 + / cd33 - cells , or cd34 - / cd33 + cells . data presented in this article favor clinical use of the cd34/cd33 flow cytometry assay to guide harvesting of circulating hematopoietic progenitors for autologous transplantation and contribute to better understanding of the role played by circulating hematopoietic progenitor cell subsets in marrow recovery after myeloablative cancer therapy . 
renal angiomyolipoma : report of 24 cases . a series of 24 patients with renal angiomyolipoma was reviewed . their ages ranged from 10 to 70 years ( average 41 ) . four cases were associated with tuberous sclerosis , 1 with spinal neurilemmoma , 1 with transitional cell carcinoma and another with renal tuberculosis . the presenting symptoms in decreasing frequencies were flank pain , mass , haematuria , fever , syncope and respiratory distress . although it has often been said that angiomyolipomas associated with tuberous sclerosis are small and asymptomatic , all 4 such patients in this study had large symptomatic tumours . before the advent of ct scan and ultrasonography , the pre-operative diagnostic rate for cases unassociated with tuberous sclerosis was 10 % ( 1/10 ) . with the combined use of these 2 modalities , the diagnostic rate increased to 60 % ( 6/10 ) . most patients in this series were treated with nephrectomy . however , equally good outcomes occurred in 2 patients who received partial nephrectomies . pre-operative diagnosis now makes it possible to consider more conservative management . 
ten cases of transitional cell carcinoma of bladder causing ureteric obstruction . a review was carried out on 10 patients with superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder ( ta lesions ) that were causing ureteric obstruction . evidence of upper tract obstruction did not necessarily indicate deep invasion . 
prostate tumour markers and differentiation grade in prostatic cancer . serum acid phosphatase activity , prostate specific phosphatase and prostate specific antigen were measured in 100 patients with prostatic cancer . the patients were divided according to the differentiation grade into 3 groups : g1 ( well ) , g2 ( moderately ) and g3 ( poorly differentiated ) carcinoma . bone metastases were identified by scintigraphy . among the 76 m0 patients the mean levels of all 3 markers were slightly higher in patients with moderately differentiated prostatic carcinoma . among the 24 m1 patients the primary tumour was either g2 ( 18 patients ) or g3 ( 6 patients ) ; none had g1 lesions . significantly higher serum acp and pap levels were found in patients with g2 tumours than in those with g3 lesions . it was concluded that the histological differentiation grade of prostatic carcinoma did affect serum levels of prostatic tumour markers ; the tendency towards higher levels in the g2 group was noticeable in both non-metastatic and metastatic cases despite the limited number of patients in the latter category . in clinical practice this information may be an important additional tool in staging prostatic cancer . 
epidermoid cyst ( monodermal teratoma ) of the testis . we report 14 patients with epidermoid cyst of the testis ( monodermal teratoma ) . in 7 patients ( 5 treated within the last 5 years ) the mass was excised and adjacent testicular tissue was biopsied . seven patients underwent radical inguinal orchiectomy . carcinoma in situ was not detected in any testicular tissue examined . there was no evidence of tumour recurrence in any patient after a mean follow-up of 10 years . ultrasonographic appearance was not specific for a diagnosis of epidermoid cyst and exploratory surgery was required in all cases . excision of the tumour and biopsy of adjacent testicular tissue to determine the presence or absence of carcinoma in situ is adequate treatment for this rare testicular neoplasm . 
the cancer experience in the framingham heart study cohort . the almost 40-year records of the framingham heart study ( fhs ) cohort were reviewed to establish the cancer experience of this noninstitutionalized group of white subjects . diagnoses were confirmed from pathology and laboratory reports and clinical notes . age-specific incidence rates were compared with connecticut surveillance , epidemiology , and end results ( seer ) data . among the 5209 subjects , 1201 malignancies were confirmed . median age at diagnosis was 69 for men and 65 for women . lung , prostate , skin , and colon accounted for more than half of men 's cancers ; breast , colon , and skin made up half of the women 's . fhs and connecticut seer rates matched closely , with the same primary tumor sites appearing commonly in both groups . thus , the fhs cohort should provide a fair database for analysis of risk factors in cancer incidence , as it has done in cardiovascular diseases . 
variability in dna measurements in multiple tumor samples of human colonic carcinoma . the dna ploidy and cell-cycle distribution of three separate fresh tissue samples of 60 colorectal adenocarcinomas were analyzed by flow cytometry . dna ploidy was concordant among the three samples in 38 cases ( 63.3 % ) . in the remaining 22 cases ( 36.6 % ) , the dna histograms of two of the three multiple samples were similar ; however , the ploidy of the third sample was discordant . no relationship was observed between dukes ' stage and histologic grade with concordance or discordance among samples . thus , in about one third of the colonic carcinomas , a single sample showing either a diploid or diploid-cycling dna histogram would not detect aneuploid dna patterns . comparison of scrapes and fine-needle aspirates of tumors as alternative sampling methods of tumors for dna ploidy analysis indicated a strong association with the tumor ploidy ( 84 % and 96 % , respectively ) only when the ploidy of the multiple samples was concordant . in about 25 % of the cases , tumor scrapes and fine-needle aspirates did not correlate with the " most abnormal " ploidy observed in one of the three tissue samples . the data suggest that single or even double tissue samples may not show aneuploid dna patterns in a substantial proportion of colorectal cancers . 
clear cell carcinoma of the inguinal region arising from endometriosis . the second and third examples of clear cell carcinoma of the inguinal region arising from endometriosis are reported . in one patient a right inguinal mass was excised along with an inguinal lymph node dissection . the tumor recurred in the retroperitoneum and was removed , and postoperative radiation therapy was administered . the patient died of recurrent tumor after 11 years . the other patient was treated by excision of a left inguinal mass and an inguinal lymph node dissection and was alive without recurrence 4 years and 8 months later . 
percent tumor necrosis as a predictor of treatment response in canine osteosarcoma . the percent tumor necrosis was determined in 200 dogs with spontaneously occurring osteosarcoma . one hundred dogs had no treatment before amputation or death . one hundred other dogs were treated with either radiation therapy alone ( n = 23 ) , intraarterial ( ia ) cisplatin alone ( n = 16 ) , intravenous ( iv ) cisplatin alone ( n = 6 ) , radiation therapy plus ia cisplatin ( n = 47 ) , or radiation therapy plus iv cisplatin ( n = 8 ) . eighty-nine of these 100 dogs had their tumors resected 3 weeks after the end of therapy ( 6 weeks after the initiation of therapy ) and replaced with a cortical bone allograft . dogs with preoperative treatment were evaluated for local tumor control and time to metastasis . the mean percent tumor necrosis in untreated osteosarcoma was 26.8 % . the mean percent tumor necrosis for dogs receiving radiation only , ia cisplatin only , and iv cisplatin only was 81.6 % , 49.1 % and 23.8 % , respectively . the mean percent tumor necrosis for dogs receiving radiation therapy plus ia cisplatin or radiation therapy plus iv cisplatin was 83.7 % and 78.2 % , respectively . there was no significant difference between percent tumor necrosis in untreated osteosarcoma compared with those receiving iv cisplatin , but there was a significant increase in percent tumor necrosis with all other treatments . a mathematic model for the effect of cisplatin and radiation dose was developed using multiple regression analysis . the radiation dose calculated to cause at least 80 % tumor necrosis was 42.2 gy ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 38.0 to 47.6 gy ) when radiation was given alone and 28.1 gy ( 95 % ci , 21.3 to 36.6 gy ) when radiation was combined with ia cisplatin . areas of viable tumor tended to be most frequent adjacent to the articular cartilage and in the joint capsule . percent tumor necrosis was strongly predictive for local tumor control ; 28 of 32 dogs with greater than 80 % tumor necrosis had local control , and only eight of 29 dogs with less than 79 % tumor necrosis had local control ( p = 0.0047 ) . there was no correlation between percent tumor necrosis and time to metastasis . 
usefulness of serum glycoconjugates in precancerous and cancerous diseases of the oral cavity . sera from 47 healthy controls , 18 normal individuals with the habit of tobacco chewing , 43 patients with oral precancerous ( pc ) conditions , and 40 patients with oral cancer ( oc ) were studied for the levels of total sialic acid ( tsa ) , lipid-bound sialic acid ( lsa ) , mucoid proteins , and protein-bound hexoses ( pbh ) ( galactose and mannose ) . the changes in the glycoconjugate levels were insignificant between the controls and the normal tobacco chewers . all four parameters were significantly elevated in oral pc patients compared with controls . the levels of pbh and lsa showed significant increase in the oral pc patients compared with the normal tobacco chewers . a significant increase was observed in the levels of tsa , lsa , mucoid proteins , and pbh in oc patients compared with controls , normal tobacco chewers , and patients with oral pc . increasing levels of all the biomarkers were found with progression of the malignant disease . elevations in the levels of tsa and lsa were statistically significant in stage iv patients compared with stage iii patients . the patients with metastases had higher levels of the biomarkers than the patients with primary oc . however , elevations only in lsa levels were statistically significant . these results suggest that evaluations of the serum glycoconjugate levels may be useful in diagnosis of the patients with oral pc or oc . in addition to their value in early detection , they can also help in staging of the disease . 
a prospective randomized comparison of protracted infusional 5-fluorouracil with or without weekly bolus cisplatin in metastatic colorectal carcinoma . a mid-atlantic oncology program study . one hundred eighty-four patients with advanced measurable colorectal cancer not previously treated with chemotherapy were entered into a prospective randomized clinical trial by the mid-atlantic oncology program ( maop ) to assess the value of weekly cisplatin ( 20 mg/m2 ) when added to a protracted schedule of 5-fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) infusion ( pif ) at 300 mg/m2/d for 10 weeks of every 12 weeks . the liver was the primary indicator lesion in approximately 75 % of the study group . all tumor measurements required radiographic confirmation . the response rate in the pif alone arm was 35 % ( 29 of 83 ; 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 25 % to 46 % ) compared with 33 % ( 28 of 85 ; 95 % ci , 23 % to 44 % ) for the arm in which weekly cisplatin was added to pif . the median survival times were 11.8 and 11.2 months in the two groups . weekly cisplatin does not appear to add to the effectiveness of pif in colorectal carcinoma . 
relationship between histologic features , dna flow cytometry , and clinical behavior of squamous cell carcinomas of the larynx . flow cytometric analysis of dna content was done on 133 primary squamous cell carcinomas of the larynx . overall , 76 tumors ( 57.1 % ) were not diploid ( aneuploid or tetraploid ) . the dna index ( di ) was calculated and grouped into three levels . fifty-seven cases had a di in a range of 1.85 to 2.15 ( 44 diploid and 13 tetraploid ) . the cases were grouped in relation to ploidy , proliferative index , and the tumor-node-metastasis ( tnm ) system . every group was analyzed with respect to survival rate . ploidy was related to histocytologic grade . in well-differentiated tumors ( g1 ) survival rates at 48 months were 41.7 % in diploid cases and 27.7 % in nondiploid ones ( relative risk [ rr ] , 2.01 ; 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 0.89 , 4.52 ) . in no cases that underwent surgery , survival rates at 48 months were , respectively , 81.8 % and 49.2 % ( rr , 5.07 ; 95 % ci , 0.76 , 33.93 ) . these results suggest that ploidy may be a new independent parameter of prognosis in squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx . this is useful in clinical practice because it allows the clinician to recognize those cases with poorer prognosis among the early tumors at a stage where other prognostic parameters are not yet available . 
evaluation of serum ca 125 as a tumor marker in non-small cell lung cancer . serum ca 125 levels were evaluated in 130 healthy subjects and 133 patients with untreated pulmonary lesions . these were 33 patients with benign pulmonary conditions and 100 with lung cancer . the mean concentration of ca 125 was higher in patients with lung cancer ( 37 + / - 81 u/ml ) than in those with nonmalignant disease ( 4.2 + / - 5.7 u/ml ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . in the healthy control group ca 125 concentrations were significantly lower ( 0.63 + / - 1.5 u/ml ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . in patients with lung cancer the concentration of this tumor marker was related to the tumor-node-metastasis ( tnm ) stage . at a cut-off value of 15 u/ml , ca 125 had a sensitivity of 44 % , specificity of 100 % , positive predictive value of 100 % , and negative predictive value of 65 % with respect to healthy subjects ; in patients with benign pulmonary conditions , these values were 44 % , 94 % , 94 % , and 31 % , respectively . at this cut-off value , a correlation between the respectability prognosis and the likelihood of survival 24 months posttreatment was observed . these findings suggest that ca 125 can be used as an adjunctive test in the management of patients with lung cancer patients . 
chondrosarcomas of the synovium . chondrosarcoma of the synovium , either primary or secondary to synovial chondromatosis , is rare . ten cases of synovial chondrosarcoma were studied ( four from the mayo clinic files and six from the authors ' consultation files ) . two were considered primary . in five cases there was evidence of preexisting synovial chondromatosis , and in the remaining three , there was a suggestion of preexisting disease . several histologic features were found that were helpful to diagnose malignancy . the most important ones were loss of the " clustering " growth pattern typical of synovial chondromatosis , myxoid change in the matrix , areas of necrosis , and spindling at the periphery of chondroid lobules . pulmonary metastasis developed in five of nine patients ; three of these patients died . 
prognostic value of histopathology in ewing 's sarcoma . long-term follow-up of distal extremity primary tumors . the pathologic material from 56 patients diagnosed initially as ewing 's sarcoma of the distal extremity and treated on national cancer institute protocols between 1968 and 1984 was reviewed and correlated with clinical outcome . histologically , the tumors were categorized , based on recent pathologic criteria , into three diagnostic groups : ( 1 ) typical ewing 's sarcoma , ( 2 ) atypical ewing 's sarcoma , and ( 3 ) other ( predominantly peripheral neuroepithelioma [ pn ] ) . thirty-two patients ( 57 % ) had typical ewing 's , 13 ( 23 % ) were atypical , and 11 ( 20 % ) were in the " other " diagnostic category ( seven [ 13 % ] pn , two primitive rhabdomyosarcoma , one primitive sarcoma of bone , and one synovial cell sarcoma ) . no cases of metastatic neuroblastoma , osteosarcoma , or lymphoma were found . forty-five patients had localized disease at diagnosis ; 11 had metastases . patients with typical ewing 's sarcoma were less likely to have metastatic disease at the time of diagnosis . only two of 32 patients with typical ewing 's sarcoma had metastases compared with nine of 24 patients in the two other groups . the pattern of relapse was also different in these other groups compared with typical ewing 's patients ; five patients developed lymph node metastases and two patients developed brain metastases . although the presence of metastatic disease at diagnosis was a strong negative prognostic factor , our histologic grouping was independently prognostic of clinical outcome in patients with localized disease . patients with typical osseous ewing 's sarcoma had an improved overall survival ( p2 = 0.03 ) and patients with other tumors ( neither typical nor atypical ewing 's sarcoma ) had a poorer disease-free survival ( p2 = 0.02 ) . since no generally accepted histopathologic prognostic criteria exist for ewing 's sarcoma , the potential value of our proposed classification should be evaluated in a larger retrospective and a prospective study . 
acinic cell carcinoma . clinicopathologic review . the authors reviewed 90 cases of acinic cell carcinoma treated at the mayo clinic to assess long-term follow-up and to study features predictive of disease progression . sixty-three patients ( 55 females and 35 males ) were seen for primary treatment ; 27 had recurrent disease when first evaluated . histologically , these tumors were composed of serous acinar cells and intercalated duct-type cells . morphologic patterns included solid , microcystic , follicular , and papillary-cystic . all patients were followed for at least 10 years or until death . of the primary treatment group , 44 % had local recurrence , 19 % had metastasis , and 25 % died of disease . disease first recurred locally up to 30 years after presentation and resulted in death after as many as 38 years . poor prognostic features include pain or fixation ; gross invasion ; microscopic features of desmoplasia , atypia , or increased mitotic activity ; and excision as initial treatment . neither morphologic pattern nor cell composition was a predictive feature . 
risk factors for cancer of the tongue in uruguay . from 1987 to 1989 , a hospital-based case-control study of cancer of the tongue was conducted in montevideo , uruguay , as part of a large study to investigate a number of risk factors for cancer of the oral cavity , pharynx , and larynx . the study involved interviews with 57 cases and 353 controls and was restricted to men . relative risks ( rr ) associated with tobacco smoking , alcohol drinking , and selected dietary items were obtained by unconditional logistic-regression analysis . users of black tobacco had a rr fourfold higher than users of blond tobacco , and heavy drinkers of alcohol had a rr of 11.6 . infrequent consumption of vegetables was associated with a significant rr of 5.3 , and heavy drinkers of the local infusion " mate " had a rr of 2.5 . it was concluded that black tobacco smoking and alcohol drinking were the strongest risk factors for cancer of the tongue in uruguay . their effects combine according to a multiplicative model . also , infrequent vegetable intake and mate ingestion contribute to the risk of cancer of the tongue . 
prognostic factors in yolk sac tumors of the ovary . a clinicopathologic analysis of 29 cases . twenty-nine ovarian cancer patients with yolk sac tumors and germ cell tumors with yolk sac tissue as a component of their disease ( 16 endodermal sinus tumor , 11 mixed germ cell tumors , one embryonal carcinoma , and one polyembryoma ) were treated with cytoreductive surgery and combination chemotherapy . prognostic factors were investigated in this group . patients with stage i disease had a more favorable prognosis ( p less than 0.003 ) than those with stages ii and iv disease . the difference in prognosis was significant in cases where residual tumor was absent ( p less than 0.003 ) and in cases where ascites was either absent or less than 100 ml in volume ( p less than 0.05 ) . endodermal sinus tumor with either an intestinal ( p less than 0.05 ) or microcystic pattern ( p less than 0.01 ) was more common in survivors than in those who died . the age , preoperative serum alpha-fetoprotein level , maximum tumor size , and tumor weight had no significant correlation with prognosis . in advanced cases , chemotherapy regimens including cisplatin gave better results than those containing vincristine , dactinomycin , and cyclophosphamide ( p less than 0.05 ) . the optimal treatment of yolk sac tumors or tumors with yolk sac tissue as a component of the ovary is discussed in light of these results . 
bone sarcomas as second malignant neoplasms following childhood cancer . this study explores the relationship between histologic variants of bone sarcomas and previous therapy in patients in whom an unrelated malignant neoplasm had been diagnosed during childhood . sarcomas of bone were the most common second malignant neoplasm ( smn ) reported to the late effects study group , a 13-institution consortium consisting of pediatric oncology centers from western europe , canada , and the united states . the authors attempted to relate the histologic subtypes of the 91 bone tumors to clinical factors such as previous therapy and genetic predisposition because morphologic variants have been shown to have biologic significance in other tumors and may have etiologic import . the literature concerning the subtypes of bone tumors , clinical and experimental , is also reviewed . the authors also investigated the effect of several factors on the time interval from the first diagnosis to the smn ( i.e. , the bone sarcoma ) . anthracyclines significantly shortened the interval by about 3 years . the primary diagnosis also significantly affected the interval , with leukemia/lymphomas having the shortest interval and retinoblastoma the longest . the authors could not demonstrate any significant relationship between morphologic characteristics of the osteosarcoma and predisposing conditions . however , lesions diagnosed as chondrosarcoma and malignant fibrous histiocytoma occurred almost exclusively in patients who had received radiation therapy to the site in which the smn developed . 
a southwest oncology group study on the use of a human tumor cloning assay for predicting response in patients with ovarian cancer . a total of 211 patients with epithelial ovarian cancer ( 168 with tumors refractory to prior chemotherapy and 43 with no prior chemotherapy ) from 33 different southwest oncology group institutions had their tumors sampled and specimens shipped to two central laboratories for drug-sensitivity testing in a human tumor cloning assay . the 168 patients with a prior history of chemotherapy failure ( median of four prior chemotherapeutic agents ) were treated with the most effective agent ( s ) found in the cloning assay ( 23 patients ) , and those patients whose tumors did not form colonies in vitro or did not manifest any sensitivity to agent ( s ) were treated with a clinician 's choice of agent ( s ) ( 101 patients ) . the remaining 44 of the 168 patients were not treated with chemotherapy because of deteriorating performance status or early death . the complete and partial response rate in patients treated according to assay results was 28 % versus 11 % for the patients treated according to clinician 's choice ( p = 0.03 ) . there was no statistically significant difference in survival between the two options ( 6.25 versus 7 months , respectively ) . the 43 patients with no history of prior chemotherapy were all treated with standard combination chemotherapy , and their clinical response was compared with their in vitro sensitivity to the same agents . overall there was a 100 % true-positive rate and 100 % true-negative rate for the seven evaluable patients . from these data the authors conclude that use of the human tumor cloning assay may increase the response rate but not the survival for selected patients with advanced chemotherapy-refractory ovarian cancer . the study is weakened , however , by the many steps of patient selection necessitated by inadequate tumor colony formation in vitro and the inability to treat all patients ( because of early death or a rapid decline in performance status ) . the assay does appear to be worthy of additional study for predicting response to combination chemotherapy in patients without a prior history of chemotherapy . finally the use of central chemosensitivity testing laboratories is feasible for testing in vitro predictive assays in a cooperative group setting . 
yield from total skin examination and effectiveness of skin cancer awareness program . findings in 874 new dermatology patients . the authors reviewed 874 dermatology charts to assess the acceptance rate of total skin examination ( tse ) , incidental skin findings , and patient compliance regarding treatment recommendations . of the 874 new dermatology patients studied , 707 ( 80.9 % ) agreed to tse . important incidental findings were found in 151 ( 21.4 % ) . these included : ( 1 ) biopsy specimen-confirmed malignant tumors ( malignant melanoma , lentigo maligna , and basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma ) in 24 of the 707 patients ( 3.4 % ) , ( 2 ) biopsy specimen-confirmed premalignant tumors ( actinic keratosis with dysplasia , bowenoid actinic keratosis , bowenoid papulosis , and lentigo with dysplasia , in five ( 0.7 % ) , ( 3 ) clinically diagnosed premalignant actinic keratosis in 64 ( 9.1 % ) , ( 4 ) biopsy specimen-confirmed dysplastic nevi in 17 ( 2.4 % ) , and ( 5 ) congenital nevi in 41 ( 5.8 % ) . only 4.2 % of the patients returned for a yearly tse , and only 6.0 % were found to follow all recommendations for monthly self examination , yearly professional examination , and sun protection . it is concluded that tse for all new patients , and on a yearly basis for all return patients , is valuable in the detection of many skin conditions and allows skin cancer screening to be done , since patients for the most part do not follow recommendations for at-home screening . 
achievement of life goals by adult survivors of modern treatment for childhood cancer . to assess the impact of the diagnosis and modern treatment of childhood cancer on achievement of adult goals , the authors evaluated employment , health and life insurance coverage , marriage , divorce , and reproduction in 227 former pediatric cancer patients . each area was evaluated in relation to a common set of disease and demographic factors that included age at follow-up , age at diagnosis , gender , marital status , history of disease recurrence , and diagnosis . patients were younger than 20 years of age at diagnosis , and their diagnoses were made between january 1 , 1960 , and december 31 , 1984 . the median age at diagnosis was 11.4 years , and the median age at follow-up was 26.6 years . the percentage of unemployed male respondents did not differ from population norms . the percentage of unemployed female respondents , however , was slightly higher than that of the united states population . approximately 11 % of the survivors reported some form of employment-related discrimination , a level significantly lower than that of prior reports . company-offered health insurance was provided to 92.4 % of full-time and 90.0 % of part-time employed respondents . life insurance was purchased by 60 % of full-time employed men and 55 % of women . these percentages were lower than those reported for the united states population . twenty-four percent of those with life insurance had difficulty obtaining it . fifty-eight percent of the subjects were married or lived as married . the percentages of married men and women were significantly lower than united states norms . twenty percent of those who were married or lived as married have divorced or separated or no longer live as married . women aged 20 to 24 years were less likely to marry , and women aged 35 to 44 years had a significantly higher frequency of divorce than similarly aged united states women . in general , the history of childhood cancer did not influence the decision to marry or live as married but was occasionally ( 20 % ) important in the decision to dissolve a marital relationship . many former patients indicated that their diagnosis and treatment for childhood cancer influenced their decision to have children . the current study suggests that most former pediatric cancer patients achieve adult life goals . additional research is necessary to define those populations at greatest risk of failure to achieve these goals . 
two-drug therapy in patients with metastatic germ cell tumors . eighty-two patients with metastatic germ cell tumors ( gct ) treated with two-drug therapy consisting of etoposide and cisplatin were evaluated for late relapse . good-risk gct was defined using memorial sloan-kettering cancer center ( mskcc ) criteria . etoposide was given at 100 mg/m2 on days 1 to 5 and cisplatin was given at 20 mg/m2 on days 1 to 5 ; therapy was recycled at 21 days with delays up to 7 days for a leukocyte count of less than 3000/microliters or a platelet count of less than 100,000 / microliters . drug doses were not attenuated for myelosuppression . seventy-six of 82 evaluable patients achieved a complete response ( cr ) . seventy-two patients had a cr to chemotherapy alone . forty-six ( 56 % ) patients had excision of residual abnormalities : 11 had teratoma in the resected specimen , 31 had necrotic debris or fibrosis , and 4 had a cr after chemotherapy plus complete excision of residual viable gct . six patients had an incomplete response to chemotherapy ; one of these patients had unresectable mature teratoma and remains progression-free . the median etoposide dose ( + / - standard deviation [ sd ] ) was 500 mg/m2/course ( + / - 35 mg/m2 ) and the median cisplatin dose ( + / - sd ) was 100 mg/m2/course ( + / - 6 mg/m2 ) . nine patients experienced a relapse at 6 to 17.5 months ; two patients with nonseminomatous gct were salvaged by chemotherapy and one patient with seminoma was salvaged by chemotherapy and radiation therapy . the three patients who were salvaged by additional therapy are disease-free at 59 to 63 months . seventy-one patients ( 87 % ) remain disease-free with a median follow-up time of 63 months ( range , 33 to 92 months ) . no relapses have occurred beyond 17.5 months . etoposide and cisplatin therapy at these doses and schedule results in durable cr without late relapse . 
a study of cyproheptadine in the treatment of metastatic carcinoid tumor and the malignant carcinoid syndrome . sixteen patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors and the malignant carcinoid syndrome were treated with cyproheptadine ( periactin , merck , sharp & dohme , west point , pa ) at maximum tolerable doses that ranged from 12 to 48 mg daily . usual side effects were mild sedation and dry mouth , but three patients found it impossible to sustain treatment due to nausea and vomiting . most patients had significant relief of diarrhea , frequently associated with weight gain . relief of flushing was uncommon . the therapeutic benefit produced by cyproheptadine would appear to be a peripheral effect because 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid ( 5-hiaa ) excretion in these patients was not reduced . although there have been case reports of objective tumor regression with cyproheptadine therapy , this was not observed in any of these 16 patients . cyproheptadine would appear to be a useful therapeutic tool for the management of diarrhea associated with the malignant carcinoid syndrome . an appropriate initial total daily dose is 0.4 mg/kg divided in three fractions with prompt modification to produce minimal and tolerable side effects . 
remission induction and continuation therapy in children with their first relapse of acute lymphoid leukemia . a pediatric oncology group study . between january 1979 and april 1983 , 113 children undergoing their first relapse of acute lymphoid leukemia ( all ) at any site were registered in pediatric oncology group study 7834 ; 98 were eligible and evaluable . in addition to radiotherapy administered to sites of local relapse , induction consisted of vincristine , doxorubicin , and prednisone ( vap ) chemotherapy . continuation therapy consisted of triple-drug intrathecal therapy and regimens of 6-thioguanine and cytarabine alternating with vincristine , prednisone , cyclophosphamide , and cytarabine . randomization in continuation was between vap pulses or no pulse , regardless of the site of relapse . this report provides long-term follow-up of these patients . thirty-two of 39 children with bone marrow involvement achieved a complete response ( cr ) . only one of these is alive in an unmaintained remission , a child who did not have an initial cr . thirty-four of 36 evaluable children with central nervous system involvement as the site of relapse achieved cr . of these ten are alive ; eight are in continuing cr . nineteen of 20 boys with testicular relapse achieved cr . of these , 14 are still alive and not receiving therapy , although only one half received treatment in compliance with the protocol described . these results illustrate the possibility of cure of patients who have relapsed with all when it is ( 1 ) confined to a meningeal or gonadal site and ( 2 ) treated vigorously with radiotherapy and a new regimen of systemic chemotherapy . the results reconfirm the need to prevent an initial relapse at any site . 
prolonged response to carboplatin in an infant with brain stem glioma . adults and children with brain stem gliomas have a mean survival time of 15 months after radiation therapy ( xrt ) . infants with this tumor present additional complexities for treatment because of possible neurotoxicity of the radiation to the developing brain . we report a 15-month-old child with biopsy-proven brain stem glioma with clinical and radiographic evidence of disease progression . she was treated with 24 monthly courses of carboplatin without radiation therapy and has had a 39 + month response . the clinical response started after 3 months and the radiographic evidence was documented at 10 months by magnetic resonance imaging . the toxicity was minimal . longitudinal neuropsychological assessment demonstrated continued improvement at 36 months post diagnosis but with some motor functioning below expected age levels . cervico-medullary astrocytoma in a young patient may be the appropriate clinical setting for future trials of chemotherapy without xrt . 
postoperative follow-up of patients with early breast cancer . patterns of care among clinical oncologists and a review of the literature . eighty clinical oncologists in the southeastern united states were surveyed to determine their strategies for follow-up care after primary treatment of early-stage breast cancer . the frequency of use of the history and physical examination , complete blood count , liver function tests , carcinoembryonic antigen levels , chest x-ray , skeletal survey , bone scan , liver scan , and mammogram for observing hypothetical low - and high-risk patients was assessed . yearly mammograms were recommended by more than 95 % of respondents . history and physical examination were the modalities used most often , whereas periodic bone and liver scans were used only in a minority of patients . a review of the literature supported the strategy of the respondents in this survey and further underscored the cost-effectiveness of the history and physical examination in detecting recurrence during follow-up . based on this survey and supporting literature , recommendations for reasonable yet cost-conscious follow-up are presented . 
imaging of a parapharyngeal hemangiopericytoma . radioimmunoscintigraphy ( spect ) with indium-111-labeled anti-cea antibody , and comparison to digital subtraction angiography , computed tomography , and immunohistochemistry . a 27-year-old male patient with a parapharyngeal hemangiopericytoma was investigated radiologically with orthopantomography , computed tomography , and digital subtraction angiography before the operation . because a malignancy was suspected , the patient was imaged with gamma camera using radiolabeled monoclonal anticarcinoembryonal antigen antibody including single photon emission computed tomography . the radioantibody accumulated strongly into the neoplasm . tumor to background ratio was 2.2 . samples of the excised tumor were stained immunohistochemically for desmin , vimentin , muscle actin , cytokeratin , cea ( carcinoembryonic antigen ) , and factor viii . they showed that the antibody uptake was of unspecific nature and not due to cea expression in the tumor . 
elective radical neck dissection in epidermoid cancer of the head and neck . a retrospective analysis of 853 cases of mouth , pharynx , and larynx cancer . a retrospective analysis of 853 patients with cancer of the mouth , pharynx , and larynx operated on over a 30-year period was performed . four hundred fifty-seven of them had a radical neck dissection ( rnd ) at some point . five hundred ninety patients had no clinically positive nodes ( n-o ) necks at the time of primary treatment ; 99 of these had elective neck dissection , whereas 95 others had a delayed rnd when nodes became clinically involved . twenty-three percent of all n-o patients had microscopically involved nodes and less than half of these were among those patients selected for elective rnd . furthermore , 58 % of those patients who had elective rnd did not have positive nodes . comparative analysis of elective rnd , delayed therapeutic rnd after clinical appearance of nodes , and composite operations for patients with n1-n3 disease indicates little difference in disease-free survival when the nodes in the elective rnd were positive microscopically for tumors ( 56 % , 49 % and 47 % respectively ) . it thus seems that elective rnd offers no real advantage over a careful watchful waiting approach in most patients . 
results of treating ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast with conservative surgery and radiation therapy . to determine the frequency , pattern , and time course of tumor recurrence in the breast , the outcome of 38 women with ductal carcinoma in situ ( dcis ) treated with conservative surgery and radiation therapy between 1976 and 1985 was studied . surgery typically consisted of local excision without evaluation of the microscopic margins of resection . the median radiation dose to the tumor site was 6400 cgy . with a median follow-up time of 81 months , eight patients ( 21 % ) have experienced a recurrence in the breast . the time course to recurrence was protracted in some cases , with failures occurring at 17 , 27 , 43 , 63 , 71 , 83 , 92 , and 104 months . the 5-year and 8-year actuarial rates of tumor recurrence in the breast were 8 % and 27 % , respectively . seven patients had a recurrence at or near the primary tumor site , four with invasive carcinoma , and one had an invasive recurrence at a site elsewhere in the breast . no clinical or pathologic factor was significantly associated with an increased risk of recurrence , but the number of patients in the study population was small . the authors reached the following conclusions for patients with dcis treated with conservative surgery and radiation therapy without careful mammographic and pathologic evaluation : ( 1 ) recurrence in the breast may be seen in at least one fifth of the patients ; ( 2 ) recurrence typically occurs at or near the primary site ; and ( 3 ) recurrence can occur long after treatment . careful mammographic and pathologic assessment may be useful in reducing the local recurrence rate and should be considered essential if patients are considered for conservative surgery and radiation therapy . 
surgical management of pericardial effusion in patients with malignancies . comparison of subxiphoid window versus pericardiectomy . there is a lack of consensus regarding optimal surgical management of symptomatic pericardial effusions in patients with malignancies . subxiphoid pericardial window formation ( subxiphoid pericardial drainage ) has been considered a safe and effective method for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes . to ensure adequate drainage , many surgeons prefer the formation of a larger pericardial window by performing either an anterior thoracotomy or a partial/total pericardiectomy . to evaluate the efficacy of these methods for palliation of symptomatic pericardial effusion in patients with malignancy , 28 consecutive pericardial surgery cases involving patients with malignancy were retrospectively analyzed . ten patients ( group 1 ) had subxiphoid window formation , whereas 18 patients ( group 2 ) had partial or total pericardiectomy or pericardial window formation by anterior thoracotomy . there was no statistically significant difference ( p = 0.22 ) in the survival rates between these two groups . a median survival time of 2.67 months ( range , 0.43 to 26.6 months ) was observed in group 1 versus 1.23 months ( range , 0.03 to 10.83 months ) in group 2 . however , a statistically significant difference ( p less than or equal to 0.02 ) in postoperative morbidity was observed between the two groups : 67 % in group 2 versus 10 % in group 1 . because of lower morbidity , subxiphoid pericardial window formation is recommended by this study as the preferred surgical method for palliation of symptomatic pericardial effusion in patients with malignancy . 
limitation of transcatheter arterial chemoembolization using iodized oil for small hepatocellular carcinoma . a study in resected cases . the radiologic and histologic findings are presented of the resection of 14 small hepatocellular carcinomas ( hcc ) , less than 2 cm in maximum diameter , after transcatheter arterial chemoembolization ( tce ) using iodized oil . the effect of tce on small hcc depended on the morphologic type of the tumors . when no extracapsular invasion of tumor cells occurred , tce was extremely effective against encapsulated tumors . however , in nine of the 14 resected specimens , viable tumor cells remained in or around the tumor . the authors suggest that small hcc are not always curable with tce alone and that a multi-disciplinary approach is necessary for patients with small hcc . 
the interferon system in carcinoma of the cervix . effect of radiation and chemotherapy . thirteen patients with advanced carcinoma of the cervix were studied for parameters of the interferon system compared with 40 age-matched and sex-matched controls . all patients had measurable serum interferon levels ; controls did not . all patients had non-antibody-type interferon-inhibitory activity , and controls had none . interferon-synthesizing potential was higher in controls than in patients . after successful radiation and chemotherapy , these parameters normalized in the patients . no change was seen in one patient who did not respond to therapy . 
immunohistologic detection of the epidermal growth factor receptor in human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma . epidermal growth factor receptor ( egf-r ) expression was studied immunohistologically in 38 patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma . the egf-r was faintly expressed in basal and parabasal layers of normal esophageal epithelia and in cancer nests of 20 patients ; it was strongly expressed in all areas of dysplastic epithelia and in cancer nests of 18 patients . the patients with strongly expressed egf-r had lymph node metastases more frequently , and their prognosis was poorer than those with faintly expressed egf-r . the egf-r expression showed a mosaic pattern in 17 patients and a diffuse pattern in 21 patients . the patients with a mosaic pattern had lymph node metastases more frequently and a worse prognosis than those with a diffuse pattern . expression of egf-r in metastatic lymph nodes was similar to that in strongly expressing areas of primary cancers with a mosaic pattern . thus egf-r expression may be an important indicator for malignancies of esophageal squamous cell carcinomas because primary cancer cells with strongly expressed egf-r metastasize to lymph nodes more frequently . 
the value of immunohistochemistry for collagen iv expression in colorectal carcinomas . the dukes ' classification has well-established prognostic value in colorectal cancer patients . yet , in each dukes ' class , the survival of individual patients may vary considerably . recent studies show prognostic significance of genetic alterations in colorectal carcinoma . however , the importance of tumor stromal components noted in the surrounding tissue may have been overlooked by the methods used . therefore , in a longitudinal study of 154 patients with colorectal cancer operated on between 1967 and 1974 , the authors determined the influence on prognosis of lymphocytic infiltration and expression of collagen type iv in tumor stroma . also , age , sex , dukes ' classification , grade of tumor differentiation , vasoinvasion , and the number of positive lymph nodes were analyzed . follow-up was at least 15 years . lymphocytic infiltration and collagen iv expression were scored as mild , moderate , or severe . survival was analyzed by a cox proportional-hazards model . the density of lymphocytic invasion showed no significant influence on survival . collagen iv expression analyzed as a single variable was significantly ( p = 0.038 ) related to better prognosis in colorectal cancer patients . by multi-variate analysis collagen iv expression showed a trend toward better prognosis that was not statistically significant ( p = 0.12 ) . dukes ' classification ( p less than 0.001 ) , the presence of vasoinvasion ( p = 0.009 ) , and lymph node status ( p = 0.04 ) significantly influenced survival . in conclusion immunohistochemistry for collagen iv is an important additional staining technique with prognostic value . in addition , collagen iv immunostaining facilitates recognition of vascular invasion by highlighting the basement membrane of vessels . 
late effects of treatment for wilms ' tumor . a report from the national wilms ' tumor study group . the national wilms ' tumor study ( nwts ) was initiated in 1969 . one of its objectives was to modulate treatments according to risk factors to minimize the number and severity of treatment-related short-term and long-term iatrogenic complications . the nwts has therefore incorporated a long term follow-up study ( ltfs ) within its framework to monitor late effects . the ltfs is confined to relapse-free survivors alive 5 years or longer after initial surgery , and data are collected using specifically designed forms . a total of 787 patients registered on nwts-1 or nwts-2 ( 1969 to 1979 ) were eligible , of whom 680 ( 86 % ) were available for analysis regarding musculoskeletal , cardiovascular , and neuropsychologic status , and the presence of benign and malignant tumors . patients with early-stage disease who were treated with radiation had scoliosis reported , along with other musculoskeletal abnormalities ( 32 versus 2 ) , nearly seven times as often as did the members of the cohort population who did not undergo radiation ( 35 of 57 versus 5 of 53 , respectively ) . the difference in cardiovascular problems recorded in survivors who did and did not receive adriamycin ( adria laboratories , columbus , oh ) ( 2.4 versus 1.1 per 100-person years at risk ) had borderline statistical significance ( p = 0.06 ) . no excess in neuropsychologic events was reported for those given the neurotoxin vincristine . when considering patients with disease of all stages , all 5 second malignant tumors occurred in the 623 patients who underwent radiation ( rt patients ) ; benign tumors were also more frequent in rt patients than in those patients who did not undergo radiation ( 41 of 486 or 8 % versus 4 of 194 or 2 % ) . continuing study of this unique body of patients is needed , especially for those given adriamycin , because of the known long interval needed for latent cardiomyopathy to become clinically manifest in some patients . 
t-cell lymphoma and mature nephroblastoma after synchronous bilateral wilms ' tumor . a 15-year-old boy had lymphoblastic lymphoma of the left tonsil after being treated for bilateral wilms ' tumor ( bwt ) at 7 months of age . in addition , a fully differentiated wilms ' tumor was diagnosed in the remaining , partially nephrectomized left kidney . development of second malignancies in patients with a history of bwt , as compared with those with unilateral wilms ' tumor , is discussed . a possible explanation for the concurrently diagnosed , fully differentiated wilms ' tumor in the remaining left kidney is suggested . 
hepatocellular carcinoma as second malignant neoplasms in successfully treated wilms ' tumor patients . a national wilms ' tumor study report . although rare , second malignant neoplasms ( smn ) after treatment for wilms ' tumor are deadly . a recent national wilms ' tumor study ( nwts ) report identified 15 patients with second malignancies discovered over 14,381 person-years of observation . this report described four patients with secondary hepatocellular carcinoma in greater detail . these patients were strikingly similar in that all had right-sided tumors and each one had received right upper-quadrant irradiation . all patients died shortly after diagnosis of the smn . 
a phase ii trial of carboplatin and vinblastine in the treatment of advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus . cisplatin-containing regimens are active in the treatment of esophageal cancer , with response rates of 25 % to 35 % in advanced disease . carboplatin is less toxic than cisplatin ; as a single agent , several responses were seen against esophageal tumors . to better define the role of carboplatin in esophageal cancer , the authors treated 19 chemotherapy-naive patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus with carboplatin and vinblastine . carboplatin ( 450 mg/m2 intravenously [ iv ] on days 1 , 29 , 57 , and every 6 weeks thereafter ) was given with vinblastine ( 5 mg/m2 iv on day 1 and then every 2 weeks ) . no major responses were seen . no significant renal toxicity and only mild gastrointestinal toxicity ( emesis , diarrhea ) were observed . hematologic toxicity was more severe in patients with prior radiation therapy ( rt ) , with three of six patients with prior rt exhibiting grade 4 hematologic toxicity . although generally less toxic than cisplatin-containing regimens , carboplatin and vinblastine is also less active in the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus . hematologic toxicity with this regimen was severe in patients who had received prior rt . 
a phase ii multi-institutional trial of low-dose n - ( phosphonacetyl ) - l-aspartate and high-dose 5-fluorouracil as a short-term infusion in the treatment of adenocarcinoma of the pancreas . a southwest oncology group study . adenocarcinoma of the pancreas is a highly lethal malignancy and chemotherapy has had little impact on the natural history of this disease . pala , used to potentiate 5-fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) , has been shown to have synergy in vivo and in vitro . twenty-seven patients were treated with an intravenous push dose of pala ( 250 mg/m2 ) followed 24 hours later with a 24-hour infusion of 5-fu ( 2600 mg/m2 ) . this regimen was repeated weekly . there was one partial response of 21 eligible patients with an estimated response rate of 5 % . toxicity was severe with one toxic death and four patients experiencing grade 4 toxicity . 5-fluorouracil and pala , given in the schedule described , do not appear to be effective against adenocarcinoma of the pancreas . 
a dose-intensive regimen of 5-fluorouracil for the treatment of metastatic colorectal carcinoma . 5-fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) was delivered in a dose-intensive schedule to 23 patients with metastatic or unresectable colorectal carcinoma . the schedule consisted of bolus single-dose 5-fu therapy 400 to 500 mg followed by 4-day infusion of 5-fu , 600 to 800 mg/m2/day , followed by a 17-day to 24-day infusion of 200 to 250 mg/m2/day . partial remissions were seen in 22 % of all eligible patients . significant toxicity , including mucositis , diarrhea , and hand-foot syndrome , necessitated dose reductions in most patients . the authors conclude that 5-fu given in this moderately intensive schedule is associated with a moderate level of response , as easily achieved with more conventional schedules or with 5-fu-leucovorin combinations . tumor responsiveness to dose intensive 5-fu regimens may be limited . 
neoadjuvant chemotherapy and radical surgery in locally advanced cervical cancer . prognostic factors for response and survival . between january 1986 and september 1988 , 75 patients with locally advanced cervical carcinoma ( international federation of gynecology and obstetrics [ figo ] stages ib-iii ) received three courses of neoadjuvant chemotherapy ( nac ) , including cisplatin , bleomycin , and methotrexate ( pbm ) . fifteen percent of patients achieved a complete response ( cr ) and 68 % a partial response ( pr ) . pretreatment characteristics were analyzed for response to nac . significantly lower response rates were found in patients with tumor size more than 5 cm in diameter and bilateral parametrial involvement to the pelvic side wall . none of the biological parameters studied was related to chemoresponsiveness . patients achieving cr or pr had a significantly improved 3-year survival rate compared with those who did not respond . after nac , radical surgery was possible in all responding patients . the median number of lymph nodes removed was 60 . a lower than expected incidence of lymph node metastases was detected . none of the clinical and pathologic features considered was significantly correlated with the lymph node status . twelve of the 62 operated patients had disease recurrence . pathologic parametrial involvement and cervical infiltration equal to or deeper than 5 mm were found to be significant prognostic factors for recurrence . a 3-year , disease-free survival of 89 % , 73 % , and 43 % for stage ib-iia , iib , and iii , respectively , was found . among the operated patients these rates increased to 100 % , 81 % , and 66 % for stage ib-iia , iib , and iii , respectively . a prospective randomized trial comparing nac and surgery with radiotherapy alone is in progress . 
combined surgical resection and iridium 192 implantation for locally advanced and recurrent desmoid tumors . thirty-eight histologically confirmed desmoid tumors were treated with conservative surgical resection and interstitial iridium 192 . patients included in this series constituted a poor prognostic group . seventy five percent ( 75 % ) had previous recurrences of their disease and 50 % had tumors 8 cm or greater in size . in addition , 16 % of the patients had gross residual disease after surgical excision and 79 % had positive or close margins of resection . with a median follow-up of 5.5 years , the 5-year actuarial in-field local control rate was 75 % and the overall local control rate was 66 % . four of the 12 local recurrences developed at the periphery of the implant volume and four patients failed at least 3 cm or more beyond the treated volume . after salvage therapy , the 5-year actuarial local control rate was 95 % . two patients required amputation for recurrent disease . thirty of 34 patients remain free of disease with an excellent functional result achieved . the authors conclude that surgical resection and postoperative interstitial iridium 192 is effective therapy for patients with desmoid tumors . despite the fact that most patients in this series had bulky , recurrent tumors , excellent long-term local control and limb function were achieved . 
prognostic factors in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma with transcatheter arterial embolization and arterial infusion . from january 1986 to december 1988 , a prospective trial of transcatheter arterial treatment was carried out for hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) . two hundred seventy-five patients were included . okuda 's staging system was employed . patients with stage i and ii hcc were treated by transcatheter arterial embolization ( tae ) with a gelatin sponge containing an anti-cancer agent ( protocol 1a ) ; a gelatin sponge and iodized oil mixed with an anti-cancer agent ( protocol 1b ) ; or iodized oil mixed with an anti-cancer agent ( protocol 2 ) . patients with stage iii hcc were treated with iodized oil with anti-cancer agent ( protocol 2 ) . as an exception , patients with an unsuccessful superselective catheterization into the proper hepatic artery by seldinger technique or obstruction of the main trunk of the portal vein were treated with percutaneous transcatheter arterial infusion into the common hepatic artery regardless of stage ( protocol 3 ) . tumor type and extension , area of tumor involvement , portal vein involvement , method of treatment , and presence of ascites and icterus were found to be the significant factors for an initial response to therapy . treatment method was the most important factor . respective survival rates at 1 and 2 years were 70.9 % and 55.3 % for protocol 1a ; 62.3 % and 43.8 % for protocol 1b ; 37.8 % and 18.3 % for protocol 2 ; and 16.5 % and 0 % for protocol 3 . many factors proved to significantly influenced prognosis ; however , tumor type had the most important prognostic significance followed by afp value , ascites , treatment protocol , and area of tumor involvement . 
a report on radiation-induced gliomas . radiation-induced gliomas are uncommon , with only 73 cases on record to date . the disease that most frequently occasioned radiation therapy has been acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) . three more cases are added here , two after irradiation for all and one after irradiation for tinea capitis . in a review of the relevant literature , the authors stress the possibility that the all-glioma and the retinoblastoma-glioma links point to syndromes in their own right that may occur without radiation therapy . 
second cancer after radiation therapy for cancer of the uterine cervix . radiation-induced cancers after radiation therapy for cancer of the uterine cervix were investigated on 11,855 patients including 5725 patients treated with radiation therapy alone , 1969 postoperative radiation therapy and 4161 surgery alone . the observed-to-expected ratios of the second primary cancer was 0.933 for the patients with radiation therapy alone and 1.074 for the patients with postoperative radiation therapy , respectively . no significant increase was observed in the risk of second primary cancers when all sites were combined . however , assessing on site by site basis , significant excess was noted for the rectum cancer , leukemia , and bladder cancer for the radiation therapy group but not for the surgery group . a significant excess of lung cancer was observed in both radiation therapy and surgery groups , which was attributed to some other causative factors . radiation-induced cancers were suggested to develop apparently in organs involved in the irradiated field . 
evaluation of a simple line width test involving magnetic resonance spectroscopy of plasma in carcinoma of the ovary . magnetic resonance spectroscopic ( mrs ) measurement of human plasma has been reported as a generally applicable marker for malignancy : patients with malignancy had a mrs line width significantly different from patients with benign diseases or healthy controls . the authors investigated the value of this test in 213 women with ovarian carcinoma , benign pelvic masses , benign nongynecologic diseases , and healthy controls . the mrs measurements were performed on plasma samples at 21 degrees c or 27 degrees c. the line width parameters were obtained by averaging the width at half the height of the methyl and methylene peaks on the resonance spectra . at 27 degrees c using 33 hz as the threshold for an abnormal result , there was a significant correlation between the result of the test and the presence or absence of malignancy . however , the study demonstrates that the specificity ( 0.44 ) and positive predictive value ( 0.42 ) are too low for the test to be useful in the management of patients with carcinoma of the ovary . at 21 degrees c no correlation between the results of the test and the clinical status of women with carcinoma of the ovary were observed . in 47 patients the test did not predict preoperatively the benign or malignant nature of a pelvic mass . 
prostate-specific antigen and external beam radiation therapy in prostate cancer . this study of 133 patients with localized prostate cancer ( stages a2 to c ) , treated by external beam radiation therapy ( xrt ) , was undertaken for two reasons : ( 1 ) to investigate the usefulness of pretreatment serum prostate-specific antigen ( psa ) levels in evaluating patients before xrt ; and ( 2 ) to investigate post-xrt changes in psa values and their likely clinical significance . it was found that pretreatment psa values in patients with localized disease exhibit wide patient to patient variability with a greater than 100-fold difference between the lowest and highest values . although mean psa values were significantly higher in stage c disease ( 51 patients ; mean psa , 17.3 ng/ml ) than in stage a2 disease ( 31 patients ; mean psa , 9.0 ng/ml ) , stage b1 disease ( 23 patients ; mean psa , 9.1 ng/ml ) , or stage b2 disease ( 28 patients ; mean psa , 10.6 ng/ml ) , individual values were of virtually no help in assigning individual patients to a clinical stage . psa levels did not correlate with grade . after xrt , psa values fell significantly and dramatically in virtually all patients ( 98 % ) by 3 months follow-up . mean psa fell from 12.5 to 2.6 ng/ml , and median psa fell from 6.6 to 1.9 ng/ml . in most patients , psa continued to fall up to 12 months after xrt and then stabilized at 21 months . although psa values fell dramatically after xrt , psa was detectable in the serum of all patients . psa values tended to transiently and mildly elevate during xrt . in a small proportion of patients , rising psa values were observed after 6 months . the full significance of this requires further follow-up , of four such patients , one has relapsed . psa is a more sensitive marker of prostatic radiation than prostatic acid phosphatase . 
ki-67 immunostaining in human breast tumors and its relationship to prognosis . ki-67 labeling was quantified in 37 nonmalignant breast tissues and in 63 breast carcinomas by counting ten random high-power fields each in three section planes ( rc ) or by evaluation of the area with the highest labeling density ( hdc ) . both procedures proved to be highly correlated ( rs = 0.94 ) . ki-67-positive fractions of the nonmalignant tissues ( mean , 2.1 % for rc and 4.1 % for hdc ) were significantly lower as compared with the carcinomas ( mean , 14.5 % for rc and 17.5 % for hdc ) . in carcinomas the ki-67 labeling was significantly associated with pt stage , axillary lymph node status , and tumor grading and inversely related to progesterone receptor status . using the medians of both counting methods ( 12 % for rc and 17 % for hdc ) as cutoff points , significantly different curves for overall and disease-free survival ( median follow-up , 37 months ) were obtained . however , cox multivariate analysis failed to demonstrate an independent effect of ki-67 labeling . in contrast , ki-67 reactivity seems to be of independent prognostic value if a higher cutoff level was selected . 
a high prevalence of antibody to the hepatitis c virus in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma in japan . in japan , hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) is one of the most prevalent cancers , with a reported fatality rate showing a consistent and significant increase in the last decade . at most , only 25 % of hcc cases are positive for the hepatitis b surface antigen ( hbsag ) . to investigate a potential role for hepatitis c virus ( hcv ) in the development of hcc , sera from 105 hbsag-negative hcc patients were collected from five districts of japan and assayed for antibody to hcv antigen ( hcvab ) . a large number of these patients ( 76.2 % ) were found to be positive for the hcvab in comparison with the reported prevalence in sera from blood donors ( 1.1 % ) . a history of blood transfusion was found in 39.6 % of the cases positive for hcvab , which was significantly different to the lower rate ( 4.7 % ) observed in hcc patients who were both positive for hbsag and negative for hcvab ( p less than 0.001 ) . 
a comparison of ho 's , international union against cancer , and american joint committee stage classifications for nasopharyngeal carcinoma . five hundred sixty-four nasopharyngeal carcinomas ( npc ) , mostly of undifferentiated histologic type , were studied for survival , distant metastasis , and local recurrence . all had computerized tomography of the nasopharynx and skull base ( ct-np ) and fiberoptic nasopharyngoscopy for evaluation of the primary tumor . regional disease was assessed by palpation . a computer data base was formed on presentation , containing all information required for staging according to ho 's , the international union against cancer ( uicc ) , and the american joint committee ( ajc ) classifications . the three were compared for their efficacy in predicting prognosis . ho 's classification was superior to the other two because its overall stages differed from one another more significantly in the actuarial survival ( asr ) , disease-free survival ( dfs ) , and freedom from distant metastasis ( fdm ) rates , and its n staging was more accurate in predicting fdm . stages t1 and t2 of uicc/ajc were similar in the freedom from local recurrence rate ( flr ) and should be grouped together , equivalent to ho 's t1 . a more even patients number distribution among the stages also favored the use of ho 's classification . 
non-hodgkin 's lymphoma of the brain after hodgkin 's disease . an immunohistochemical study . non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( nhl ) of the central nervous system ( cns ) is a rarely reported complication of hodgkin 's disease ( hd ) . two patients with nhl of the brain after hd were studied by histologic and immunohistochemical methods . both patients were in the second decade , had been treated with radiation and chemotherapy , had experienced a relapse of hd before development of nhl , had no evidence of hd at the time of diagnosis of nhl , and died within 1 year of diagnosis . both brain neoplasms were large cell immunoblastic lymphomas of b-cell lineage . patients with hd appear to be at increased risk for nhl of the cns , which may have a poor prognosis . 
in situ hybridization for the detection of epstein-barr virus in central nervous system lymphomas . epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) has been implicated in the development of lymphomas in immunocompromised patients . to test this hypothesis , 26 lymphomas involving the central nervous system ( cns ) ( 11 primary , 15 systemic ) were studied for the presence of ebv . in situ hybridization ( ish ) was performed on formalin-fixed , paraffin-embedded tissue using a sulfur 35 ( 35s ) - labeled ebv probe ( ebv bamh1-w ) . the results were interpreted without knowledge of the patients ' immunologic status . the ebv sequences were detected in 11 lymphomas , nine of which were mixed or large cell subtypes . review of the clinical information revealed that nine of the 26 lymphomas occurred in immunocompromised patients secondary to renal transplantation , human immunodeficiency virus infection , leukemia , and wiskott-aldrich syndrome . the ebv sequences were detected in all nine lymphomas occurring in immunocompromised patients , whereas two of the 17 lymphomas occurring in immunocompetent patients expressed ebv sequences . the authors conclude that the presence of ebv sequences in cns lymphomas is highly correlated with a history of compromised immune status supporting a pathogenetic role of ebv in the development of cns lymphomas in immunocompromised patients . 
dna and rna flow cytometric study in multiple myeloma . clinical correlations . flow cytometric studies of cellular dna and rna content using the acridine-orange technique were conducted in 81 patients with multiple myeloma ( mm ) . all patients were treated with the m-2 protocol and clinical response was evaluated according to the criteria of the chronic leukemia-myeloma task force . aneuploid dna stemlines were found in 38.2 % of untreated patients with a median dna index ( dna-i ) of 1.15 in marrow aspirates and 1.22 in biopsy specimens . the median percentage of cells with abnormal dna content was 31.5 ( aspirates ) and 35 ( biopsy specimens ) and a positive correlation with the percentage of bone marrow plasma cells was observed . significantly higher proliferation ( s-phase ) was found in marrow biopsy specimens as compared with marrow aspirates . significantly higher rna content ( rna index [ rna-i ] ) was observed in aneuploid versus diploid patients in biopsy material . there was no difference in response to the memorial hospital m-2 protocol between diploid and aneuploid patients . in patients with dna-i greater than 1.15 remission duration was shorter as compared with dna-i less than or equal to 1.15 . furthermore , no difference in cellular rna content was noted between responders and nonresponders . this study demonstrates no correlation between cellular rna content and response , as previously described for patients treated with vincristine , adriamycin , and dexamethasone ( vad ) , but dna aneuploidy appears to be an adverse prognostic factor in mm patients treated with the m-2 protocol . it also demonstrates that prognostic models for mm are not universal but depend on the chemotherapeutic regimen used . 
an immunohistochemical evaluation of progesterone receptor in frozen sections , paraffin sections , and cytologic imprints of breast carcinomas . two monoclonal antibodies to progesterone receptor ( pr ) , jzb39 and kd68 , were used for the immunocytochemical visualization of pr in different kinds of breast cancer specimens including ( 1 ) cryostat sections of tumors frozen at -80 degrees c ; ( 2 ) paraffin sections of tumors fixed in formalin or in bouin 's fixative for varying periods of time at room temperature or at 4 degrees c ; and ( 3 ) imprints and cryostat sections prepared from the tissue used for frozen section diagnosis and stored at -80 degrees c after fixation in zamboni 's solution . sections of conventionally frozen specimens as well as imprints and cryostat sections stored for varying periods of time were stained with the peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique , whereas the avidin-biotin technique was used for paraffin sections . in all types of specimens the pr immunostaining was localized to the nuclei of carcinoma cells and displayed considerable heterogeneity both in intensity and in distribution of positive cells . close correspondence was found between the different immunohistochemical techniques as well as between immunostaining and steroid-binding assays . pr staining was more frequently positive in well-differentiated than in moderately or poorly differentiated carcinomas , whereas no meaningful correlation was found between pr staining and extent of the disease . similar results were obtained with the immunostaining of estrogen receptor in the same material using monoclonal antibodies h222 and d75p3 gamma . thus , by choosing the technique that best suits the type of specimen available , it is possible to obtain valid information on the receptor status of any breast carcinoma , regardless of its size and clinical presentation . 
a comparative study of histopathology , hormone receptors , peanut lectin binding , ki-67 immunostaining , and nucleolar organizer region-associated proteins in human breast cancer . the current study was performed on 71 cases of human female breast cancer and compares the results of five morphologic methods developed for the detection of estrogen receptors ( er ) , progesterone receptors ( pgr ) , lectin peanut agglutinin ( pna ) binding sites , monoclonal antibody ki-67 immunoreactivity , and the mean number of argyrophilic nucleolar organizer regions ( ag-nor ) . all the parameters were evaluated on serial cryostat sections representative of a closely related , if not identical , neoplastic population . a significant positive correlation was found between the occurrence of estrogen , progesterone , and peanut receptors and between ki-67 immunoreactivity , mean number of nor , and mitotic index . furthermore , er , pgr , and pna receptors showed a significant , inverse correlation with ki-67 immunoreactivity , mitotic index , and mean number of ag-nor . these results provide further data that support the hypothesis that ( 1 ) progesterone and pna receptors are estrogen-induced and indicate a metabolic response of the target cells to functioning estrogen receptors ; ( 2 ) the mean number of nor reflects the cell kinetics of the tumor ; and ( 3 ) metabolic differentiation of neoplastic cells is inversely correlated to the proliferation index . 
nucleolar organizer regions in precancerous and cancerous lesions of the bronchus . using a silver staining technique , nucleolar organizer region-associated proteins ( ag-nor ) were studied in paraffin sections of five specimens of normal bronchial epithelium , eight of atypical squamous metaplasia , five of carcinoma in situ , and seven of microinvasive squamous cell carcinoma . the mean number of ag-nor in the nucleus were normal epithelium 1.2 + / - 0.1 ( mean + / - sd ) , atypical squamous metaplasia ( borderline lesion ) 2.2 + / - 0.5 , carcinoma in situ 3.8 + / - 0.6 , and microinvasive squamous cell carcinoma 4.8 + / - 1.1 . there was a highly significant difference between the ag-nor numbers in the atypical squamous metaplasia and those in the carcinoma in situ ( p less than 0.01 ) . the ag-nor staining is a useful technique for the differential diagnosis of difficult borderline lesions in the bronchial epithelium . 
differential alpha-fetoprotein lectin binding in hepatocellular carcinoma . diagnostic utility at low serum levels . the reactivity of serum alpha-fetoprotein ( afp ) from 20 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) with immobilized lentil lectin was examined and found to be significantly greater ( 39 % + / - 18 % ) than that of the same protein from seven patients with chronic liver disease ( cld , 11.2 % + / - 3.3 % ) , seven with fulminant hepatic failure ( fhf , 10 % + / - 8.4 % ) , and eight normal pregnant women ( 4.1 % + / - 2.7 % ) . the reactivity with concanavalin a ( con a ) was also significantly greater for afp from hcc patients ( 44.5 % + / - 12.5 % ) than that from fhf patients ( 7.7 % + / - 4 % ) and normal pregnant women ( 5.3 % + / - 3.3 % ) , but not from patients with cld . the reactivity with lentil lectin permitted distinction between those with hcc ( 31.3 % + / - 14.1 % ) and those with uncomplicated cld ( 11.2 % + / - 8.4 % ) even when the absolute levels of serum afp were in the same range ( 80-400 ng/ml ) . evaluation of the alterations by lectin binding methodology may be useful in overcoming problems associated with distinguishing between malignant and cld , particularly at moderate serum afp elevations . 
insulin secretion and action in patients with pancreatic cancer . the authors investigated insulin secretory capacity and insulin action in 11 preoperative patients with pancreatic carcinoma and 15 age-matched and weight-matched healthy subjects ( c ) . five patients were classified as diabetic ( d ) , two as impaired glucose tolerant ( igt ) , and four as nondiabetic ( nd ) . postabsorptive serum insulin levels ( mean + / - se , in uu/ml ) in d ( 12 + / - 2 ) , igt ( 17 + / - 7 ) , and nd ( 10 + / - 2 ) were comparable . after administration of 100 g of oral glucose , peak insulin achieved in d ( 60 + / - 11 ) was lower than in igt ( 101 + / - 26 ) and nd ( 83 + / - 20 ) , whereas peak insulin levels in igt and nd were significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) higher than in c ( 45 + / - 6 ) . comparable insulin response to nonglucose stimuli was documented in all subjects using the slow arginine infusion test with mean serum insulin of 27 + / - 4 in d , 28 + / - 6 in igt , 34 + / - 10 in nd , and 32 + / - 5 in c. in six patients ( p ) and six controls , insulin action was assessed by the euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp technique , with glucose turnover rates estimated by [ 3-3h ] glucose infusion . steady-state plasma glucose concentrations were maintained at 92 + / - 3 ( p ) and 91 + / - 1 mg/dl ( c ) . after insulin infusion at the rate of 1.0 mu/kg/min , comparable high physiologic insulin levels were observed in p ( 73 to 104 uu/ml ) and in c ( 81 to 103 uu/ml ) . postabsorptive rates of endogenous glucose appearance ( ra ) were higher in p ( 2.86 to 3.02 mg/kg/min ) than in c ( 1.50 to 2.80 mg/kg/min ) . at high physiologic insulin concentrations , negative ra values were documented in all subjects , and complete suppression of ra was assumed . total body glucose use ( m ) was consistently lower in p ( 3.90 to 6.40 mg/kg/min ) than in c ( 6.98 to 10.40 mg/kg/min ) , consistent with a state of insulin resistance . patients with pancreatic cancer manifest insulin resistance by virtue of a decrease in total body glucose use ( m ) and decreased insulin response to glucose due to either inherent beta cell dysfunction or decreased islet cell mass . the latter is not identifiable by histologic morphology . 
pancreatic mucinous cystadenocarcinoma with pseudosarcomatous mural nodules . a report of a case with immunohistochemical study . a case of pancreatic mucinous cystadenocarcinoma ( pmc ) with two pseudosarcomatous mural nodules ( pmn ) is described . these nodules have not been previously described in this type of tumor . in ovarian mucinous tumors ( omt ) , similar nodules have been reported , the nature of which has been discussed in detail . here the similarity between the tumor described here and ovarian tumors is stressed . the immunohistochemical study carried out disclosed in the nodules strong positive staining for vimentin and moderate positivity for keratin and epithelial membrane antigen . these findings , along with histologic details , favor the epithelial nature of the nodules . it was concluded that the nodules are foci of anaplastic carcinoma with high proliferative cell rate , which could explain the coexpression of vimentin and keratin . 
malignant fibrous histiocytoma of soft tissue . a population-based epidemiologic and prognostic study of 137 patients . epidemiology and prognosis were analyzed in a consecutive , population-based series of 137 patients with malignant fibrous histiocytoma of soft tissue in the extremities and trunk wall , with a complete follow-up of minimum 3 years . all but one patient were treated by surgery in 28 cases combined with adjuvant radiotherapy or chemotherapy . the annual incidence was 0.42 / 10 ( 5 ) . the ratio men to women was 1.1 . the median age was 64 years ( range , 22 to 87 years ) . the thigh was the most common location . the median size was 6 cm . superficial tumors constituted 43 % and were smaller than deep-seated tumors . eighty-three tumors were storiform-pleomorphic , 53 were myxoid , and one was of inflammatory type . the myxoid tumors were smaller and more often superficial . the cumulative 5-year survival rate for all patients was 0.7 , but differed markedly between the histologic types ; it was 1.0 in patients with myxoid tumors and 0.5 in patients with storiform-pleomorphic tumors . in the 77 patients with storiform-pleomorphic tumors without metastases at presentation , only tumor size larger than 10 cm and tumor necrosis independently impaired survival . the 23 patients who had none of these risk factors had a 5-year survival rate of 0.8 . 
obesity and body fat distribution and breast cancer prognosis . this study addresses the effect of obesity and body fat distribution on axillary lymph node involvement , tumor size , and estrogen receptor ( er ) level in breast cancer patients . anthropometric measurements were prospectively obtained on 248 consecutively and newly diagnosed women with invasive breast cancer . the anthropometric measurements evaluated were abdomen , thigh , subscapular , and midaxillary skinfolds ; weight ; and height . weight and quetelet index ( kg/m2 ) were significantly ( p = 0.001 ) associated with lymph node involvement in postmenopausal patients . the abdomen : thigh skinfold ratio was significantly higher in premenopausal patients ( p = 0.004 ) and postmenopausal ( p = 0.03 ) without axillary node involvement compared with women with 4 + axillary node involvement . the abdomen : thigh skinfold was higher ( p = 0.05 ) in women with smaller breast cancers ( less than 2.0 cm ) and higher er levels . weight and quetelet index did not affect tumor size or er level . this study demonstrated that obese postmenopausal women who developed breast cancer tend to have more axillary node involvement than their leaner counterparts . generalized obesity did not affect tumor size or er level . premenopausal and postmenopausal women with upper body fat distribution appear to be a subset of women who have a more favorable prognosis as measured by less lymph node involvement , smaller tumors , and higher levels of er in their tumors . 
prognostic implications of tumor diameter in carcinoma of the head of the pancreas . two hundred twenty patients with a carcinoma in the head of the pancreas were divided into three tumor diameter groups : group 1 , 0.5 to 4.4 cm ( n = 72 ) ; group 2 , 4.5 to 6.0 cm ( n = 77 ) ; and group 3 , 6.1 to 15.0 cm ( n = 71 ) . for these tumor diameter groups a six-fold eliminatory curability analysis was performed . of the patients with liver metastases in group 1 the last patient had died at 10 months and in groups 2 and 3 no patients were alive at 18 months after the start of complaints . patients with extrahepatic metastases did not survive 12 months in group 1 , 16 months in group 2 , and 25 months in group 3 . the 6 % actuarial survival rate for inoperable patients was reached in group 1 after 17 months , in group 2 after 36 months , and in group 3 after 27 months after the start of complaints . for groups 1 through 3 in curable , but not curatively operated patients , the respective 0 % actuarial survival rate was reached at 24 months , 23 months , and 14 months . the 0 % actuarial survival rate in patients with irresectable vessel invasion was reached in group 1 at 33 months , in group 2 at 23 months , and in group 3 at 25 months . the 0 % actuarial survival rate in patients with an irresectable tumor was reached at 33 months , 31 months , and 27 months after the start of complaints in groups 1 , 2 , and 3 , respectively . the 0 % actuarial survival rate in curatively operated patients was reached in group 3 after 26 months and in group 2 after 29 months . in group 1 25 % of the patients were alive at 36 months after the start of complaints . small tumors were associated with the greatest chance of curative operation and on average had the longest survival . however , small tumors with liver or other metastases carried a worse prognosis than large tumors with liver or other metastases . if tumors were found not to be resectable at the time of operation , the size of the tumor did not appear to affect survival . 
is the treatment of metastatic carcinoid tumor with interferon not as successful as suggested ? eight patients with metastatic carcinoid tumor , seven of whom had symptoms of the carcinoid syndrome , were treated with either human leukocyte interferon ( seven patients ) or recombinant alpha-interferon ( ifn alpha-2b ) ( one patient ) at doses of 4.5 to 21 x 10 ( 6 ) iu weekly for 1 to 21 ( mean , 8.5 ) months . tumor regression on computed tomography ( ct ) scan was found in one patient , the ct findings remained unchanged in three , and the tumor progressed in four patients . a clearcut and continuing decrease in urinary levels of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid ( 5-hiaa ) was observed in one patient and a transient one in four patients . the symptoms improved in only two of seven patients . four patients had leukopenia develop , which was circumvented by reducing the dose . the authors conclude that interferon therapy of the carcinoid tumor is not as successful as has been suggested in previous reports . 
a pilot study of intermediate-dose methotrexate and cytosine arabinoside , " spread-out " or " up-front , " in continuation therapy for childhood non-t , non-b acute lymphoblastic leukemia . a pediatric oncology group study . one hundred six children with newly diagnosed non-t - , non-b-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) were treated in a pediatric oncology group ( pog ) pilot study in which six courses of intermediate-dose methotrexate ( mtx ) and cytosine arabinoside ( ara-c ) ( 1 g/m2 each ) were added to a " backbone " of standard continuation therapy . the dose and sequence of mtx/ara-c administration were based on a preclinical model that demonstrated synergism between mtx and ara-c . poor-risk patients ( n = 49 ) were assigned to " up-front " therapy , in which the mtx/ara-c courses were administered during the initial 15 weeks of remission . standard-risk patients ( n = 57 ) were assigned to " spread-out " therapy , in which the mtx/ara-c courses were interspersed at 12-week intervals within continuation treatment . toxicity after intermediate-dose mtx/ara-c , principally neutropenia and fever , was judged significant but manageable . unexpectedly , the incidence of fever and neutropenia less than 500/mm3 was greater after " spread-out " therapy ( 38 % ) than after " up-front " therapy ( 6 % ) . at 4 years , the kaplan-meier estimate of event-free survival ( efs ) is 71 % ( + / - 7 % ) for standard-risk patients and 53 % ( + / - 8 % ) for poor-risk patients . the results of this pilot study support the use of intermediate-dose mtx/ara-c in additional studies . 
multidisciplinary treatment of primary orbital rhabdomyosarcoma . a single-institution experience . orbital rhabdomyosarcoma accounts for one-fourth of the primary tumors in the head and neck region . modern treatment modalities have led to a 2-year survival rate of about 90 % in these patients . however , new therapeutic trials are designed to reduce complications and salvage more than 90 % of orbital cases . between 1979 and 1990 , 12 children affected by primary orbital rhabdomyosarcoma have been diagnosed and treated at the university of naples . ten of them have been uniformly treated by biopsy , followed by immediate radiation and combined chemotherapy . all 12 patients are alive and free of detectable disease , from a minimum of 7 months to a maximum of 123 months after diagnosis . in all children , ocular structures have been spared and the complications observed until now have been few . the above results suggest that the association of immediate radiation therapy and chemotherapy might represent an optimal tool for treatment of orbital rhabdomyosarcoma . 
combination therapy for anaplastic giant cell thyroid carcinoma . since 1981 , 20 patients with anaplastic giant cell carcinoma of the thyroid have been prospectively treated according to a combination regimen of chemotherapy and external beam radiation therapy . two types of chemotherapy were used every 4 weeks , depending on the patient 's age . for those younger than 65 years , a combination of doxorubicin ( 60 mg/m2 ) and cisplatin ( 90 mg/m2 ) was given , and for older patients mitoxantrone ( 14 mg/m2 ) was used . radiotherapy was carried out between day 10 and day 20 of the first four cycles of chemotherapy . it delivered 17.5 gy in 7 fractions to the neck and the superior mediastinum . survival exceeding 20 months was observed in three patients . complete neck tumor response was observed in five patients , among whom four had undergone previous operations . no response was seen in distant metastases , which were the cause of death in 14 patients . these treatment modalities are effective in some patients , both in terms of survival and of local control , avoiding death from local invasion . gross tumor resection should be performed whenever possible but should not delay the commencement of this protocol . toxicity was high and remains the main limiting factor . 
response rates in relapsed wilms ' tumor . a need for new effective agents . three hundred eighty-one children with wilms ' tumor were treated in the united kingdom children 's cancer study group wt1 study ( 1982 to 1986 ) . seventy-one patients had relapses during or after treatment with surgery and chemotherapy , and radiation therapy , depending on stage and histologic characteristics . forty-nine patients were evaluable for disease response to second-line chemotherapy alone . evaluation of response to chemotherapy was impossible in the remaining patients because either surgery or radiation therapy was used at the time of relapse . with second-line combination chemotherapy ( which included ifosfamide , etoposide/vm26 , cisplatin/carboplatin , bleomycin , melphalan , and thiotepa [ lederle laboratories , pearl river , ny ] ) , there were five complete responses and 12 partial responses . in patients with favorable histologic findings , six of nine with stage i , five of ten with stage ii , none of 11 with stage iii , three of 16 with stage iv , and one of five with stage v disease survived . two survivors were treated with chemotherapy alone ; the others received combined treatment with chemotherapy , radiation therapy , and/or surgery . for those with unfavorable histologic findings of any stage , only two of 20 survived . the authors conclude that , even for patients with localized disease with favorable histologic findings , the " salvage " rate is little more than 50 % , and for all other stages and histologic findings the likelihood of cure after relapse is remote . there is clearly a need for additional effective chemotherapeutic agents for these patients . 
primary treatment of large and massive adult sarcomas with iododeoxyuridine and aggressive hyperfractionated irradiation . for a decade , the authors have experimented with treatment for unresectable adult soft tissue and bony sarcomas . over the last 6 years , they have combined hyperfractionated radiation therapy and intravenous iododeoxyuridine as a radiosensitizer , in regimens designed to minimize toxicity and permit delivery of aggressive radiation therapy . patients with solitary lesions and those with metastasis ( 38 % ) were treated in the hope of both potential cure in some and durable palliation in others . the most formidable of these cancers have been those that are large or massive , often requiring five or more fields and extensive treatment planning . the authors report results from 36 patients with large unresectable sarcomas ( tumors ranging from 5 to 35 cm ; average 14 cm ) treated with hyperfractionated radiation therapy , with a minimum follow-up of 1 year , follow-up of 4 or more years ( in 50 % ) , or follow-up until death . overall local control has been 60 % , with control of 66 % of lesions from 5 to 9 cm , 63 % of those from 10 to 14 cm , 63 % of those from 15 to 19 cm , and 57 % of those greater than 20 to 40 cm . morbidity has been modest . this experience compares favorably with the authors ' earlier trials with misonidazole , and toxicity has been reduced considerably . 
ultrasound and ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration biopsy of supraclavicular lymph nodes in patients with esophageal carcinoma . the use of ultrasound combined with ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy ( ugfab ) of supraclavicular lymph nodes in the pretreatment staging of 37 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus is described . all patients underwent computed tomography ( ct ) scans of the chest and the abdomen and ultrasound of the abdomen and supraclavicular regions . supraclavicular lymph node metastases ( stage iv disease according to the tumor nodes metastasis [ tnm ] classification ) were cytologically diagnosed in seven ( 18.9 % ) of the 37 patients . in two of these patients , no other metastases were found . in the other five patients , ugfab replaced more invasive diagnostic procedures . due to their superficial location , ultrasound and ugfab of the supraclavicular lymph nodes was relatively simple to perform , and contributed to an improved staging of squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus . 
altered protein tyrosine kinase levels in human colon carcinoma . to further understand the molecular mechanisms and the biological indicators of colonic tumorigenesis , the authors examined tyrosine kinase activity in the cytosol and in the particulate fraction of the homogenates of specimens from 20 human colonic carcinomas and compared them with the adjacent normal mucosal tissues . total protein tyrosine kinase activity could be precisely detected using miniphosphocellulose column purification and a synthetic peptide , glu-asparagine ( asp ) - alanine ( ala ) - glu-tyrosine ( tyr ) - ala-ala-arginine ( arg ) - arg-arg-glycine ( gly ) ( e11-g1 ) , as an artificial substrate . tyrosine kinase activity of colonic carcinoma and normal mucosa was reduced in the cytosol fraction whereas activity in the particulate fraction was elevated with respect to protein concentration . the average specific activity ratios were 1.95 + / - 0.27 ( normal cytosolic/carcinoma cytosolic ) and 0.57 + / - 0.01 ( normal particulate/carcinoma particulate ) for tyrosine kinase activity . cellular distribution ( % cytosol ) of tyrosine kinase activity in normal mucosa and in carcinoma varied from 21.0 % to 91.2 % and from 7.0 % to 61.4 % , respectively . in nearly all cases the percentage of cytosolic tyrosine kinase activity in carcinoma tissues was lower than in normal tissues . there was no difference due to histologic type or the presence of adenomatous components . a significant decrease of cytosolic tyrosine kinases was correlated with dukes ' stage a. with advancing dukes ' stage , the average specific activity ratios ( normal cytosol/carcinoma cytosol ) were decreased . this study indicates that colonic carcinogenesis might be associated with alterations in cellular levels of tyrosine kinase activity and that the average specific activity ratio ( normal cytosol/carcinoma cytosol ) had a possible correlation with colonic tumor growth . 
watch and wait after careful surgical treatment and staging in well-differentiated early ovarian cancer . patients with well-differentiated epithelial ovarian cancer stages ia , ib , ic , and iia ( figo 1976 ) were observed after surgical treatment without adjuvant therapy . careful surgical staging was required , and the extent of the staging procedure was assessed in each individual patient . there were 107 patients entered in the study by nine dutch oncology centers . of these 107 , 21 did not fulfill all of the inlet criteria of the study and were excluded . central pathologic review was performed in the remaining 86 cases , revealing that there was borderline tumor in seven patients , moderately or poorly differentiated tumor in nine patients , and tumor of nonepithelial histologic cell type in one patient . in two cases , no material for histologic review was available . after exclusion of these 19 cases , 67 patients were further analyzed . none of these 67 patients was lost during the follow-up period that ranged from 19 to 99 months ( mean , 50 months ) . tumor recurrence was found in four patients after 11 , 25 , 34 , and 34 months of follow-up , all of whom died shortly after diagnosis of the recurrence without satisfactory response to secondary treatment . for the patients who underwent the most extensive staging procedure , disease-free 5-year survival was 100 % . for the patients who were inaccurately staged , disease-free 5-year survival was 88 % . it was concluded that well-differentiated early stage ( ia-iia ) ovarian cancer carries an excellent prognosis after surgical treatment and complete surgical staging , with the possible exception of patients with stage ic disease with malignant peritoneal washings . furthermore , it was considered that the application of more objective and consistent ways of assessing tumor grade should be encouraged . surgical staging should be regarded as the golden standard in defining subsets of low-risk patients and should be included and clearly defined in future trials on early ovarian cancer . 
immunosuppressive acidic protein in malignant diseases . clinical relevance ? the immunosuppressive acidic protein ( iap ) has been described as a tumor associated marker in some solid tumors and hematologic diseases . to define the clinical relevance the authors determined the serum iap levels in 194 patients with malignancies before initiation of therapy , 14 patients with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura ( itp ) , 28 patients with bacterial pneumonia , and 23 healthy volunteers . immunosuppressive acidic protein was measured by radial immunodiffusion . the mean value of our controls was 405 + / - 48 micrograms/ml . this is consistent with published data . the mean values for patients with malignancies varied from 554 micrograms/ml to 698 micrograms/ml . these are only marginally higher than those observed for the controls . in contrast patients with bacterial pneumonia demonstrated significantly elevated values ( 1038 + / - 261 micrograms/ml ) . the authors conclude that iap can not be used as a diagnostic marker for the malignant diseases examined in this study . 
loss of expression of blood group antigen h is associated with cellular invasion and spread of oral squamous cell carcinomas . membrane-bound carbohydrates may influence the metastatic behavior of cancer cells . forty-two squamous cell carcinomas ( scc ) of the buccal and maxillary alveolar mucosa were studied retrospectively using a monoclonal antibody ( be2 ) that reacts with blood group h ( type 2 chain ) structure . h-antigen staining within the entire tumor did not correlate with the stage of the tumor , i.e. , spread of the tumors . however , loss of staining within the most invasive sites of the tumors correlated significantly with the stage of tumor development and histologic grade of malignancy . these findings support the view that features relating to the cells of deeper parts of the carcinomas are very important for the clinical behavior of the tumors , and that loss of h-antigen expression is related to the stage of tumor and invasion of carcinoma cells . 
novel antigens characteristic of neuroendocrine malignancies . the authors describe the immunochemical detection , biochemical characterization , and tissue distribution of neuroendocrine antigens recognized by three newly developed monoclonal antibodies ( moab ) obtained after immunization of mice with the variant small cell lung cancer ( sclc ) cell line nci-h82 . rnl-1 was reactive with neuroendocrine tissues similar to the sclc cluster-1 moab , known to recognize n-cam . antibodies rnl-2 and rnl-3 are directed against different epitopes on the same proteinaceous complex . both moab recognize an intracellularly located , water-soluble antigen which has a subunit composition with a protein triplet ranging in molecular weight between 44 and 45 kilodaltons ( kd ) next to a component of approximately 30 kd . the antibodies rnl-2 and rnl-3 reacted with a subset of neuroendocrine tissues and neuroendocrine neoplasms . in lung cancer both antibodies reacted only with some sclc and carcinoids and not with nonneuroendocrine lung carcinomas . the potential diagnostic applicability of antibodies rnl-1 , rnl-2 , and rnl-3 is discussed . 
ras gene mutations in intraductal papillary neoplasms of the pancreas . analysis in five cases . five intraductal papillary neoplasms of the pancreas were analyzed for the presence of the ras gene mutations . three ( 60 % ) of the five neoplasms showed point mutations at k-ras codon 12 . this incidence of the mutations was rather low compared with that found with ordinary pancreatic adenocarcinoma . the presence of the mutations did not correlate with the severity of cellular atypia , but was apparently related to the size of the tumor . the two neoplasms that had no mutations were smaller than the others that had mutations . the analysis suggested that ras gene mutation is not the first genetic alteration of tumor progression , but that it occurs during the development of neoplasms of the pancreas . 
osteosarcoma in young children . the clinicopathologic features of osteosarcoma in 12 children younger than 16 years of age treated at the children 's hospital and dana-farber cancer institute , boston , during a 70-year time period are presented . only one of six children treated before 1972 is a long-term survivor . four of six children ( 67 % ) treated after 1972 are disease-free with an average follow-up of 8.8 years . the year 1972 marked the onset of use of effective chemotherapy in osteosarcoma , namely , high-dose methotrexate and leucovorin rescue . it would appear that the pathologic features and behavior of osteosarcoma in young children is similar to that of osteosarcoma in older children and adolescents . a combination of complete ( wide ) surgical resection or amputation and aggressive chemotherapy offers the best chance of long-term survival . 
clinicopathologic characteristics of adenosquamous carcinoma of the lung . fifty-six cases of surgically resected adenosquamous carcinoma of the lung were studied clinicopathologically , and their outcome was compared with that of adenocarcinomas and squamous cell carcinomas of the lung . the frequency rate of adenosquamous carcinoma was 2.6 % of 2160 primary lung cancers resected in the national cancer center hospital ( tokyo , japan ) . the survival curves of patients with adenosquamous carcinomas , adenocarcinomas , and squamous cell carcinomas indicated that the outcome of adenosquamous carcinoma was poorer than that of adenocarcinomas and squamous cell carcinomas , particularly in stages i and ii . the amount of adenocarcinoma component did not affect the survival rate , although the histologic features of metastatic lymph nodes was somewhat influenced by the histologic type of the primary tumors . the histologic subtype of adenosquamous carcinoma was one of the independent prognostic determinants . 
immunohistochemical evaluation of seven monoclonal antibodies for differentiation of pleural mesothelioma from lung adenocarcinoma . a panel of seven monoclonal antibodies including anti-vimentin , anti-keratin markers ae1/ae3 and eab902 , human milk fat globule ( hmfg-2 ) , b72 .3 , anti-carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) , and anti-leu-m1 were used for an immunoperoxidase staining assay to determine their value in the differentiation of pleural mesothelioma from lung adenocarcinoma . anti-vimentin positively identified 86 % of the mesotheliomas and none of the adenocarcinomas . ae1/ae3 , eab902 , and b72 .3 reacted with a high percentage of both mesothelioma and adenocarcinoma specimens . with hmfg-2 , both membrane and cytoplasmic staining was observed in 92 % of the adenocarcinomas and in 14 % of the mesotheliomas , whereas 26 % of the mesotheliomas only exhibited membrane staining . eighty percent of the adenocarcinomas and 8 % of the mesothelioma tissues stained with anti-leu-m1 . anti-cea did not react with any of the 50 mesotheliomas tested but did react with 95 % of the lung adenocarcinomas tested . from this study , it was concluded that anti-cea and anti-leu-m1 were the most effective of the seven tumor markers evaluated ; and that 100 % of the pleural mesothelioma tissues could be correctly differentiated from lung adenocarcinomas using a panel consisting of anti-vimentin , hmfg-2 , anti-cea and anti-leu-m1 monoclonal antibodies . 
fine-needle aspiration in hepatocellular carcinoma . combined cytologic and histologic approach . cytologic features of fine-needle aspiration ( fna ) of hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) have not been well documented . most previous reports described only the the morphologic features of the tumor cells without considering the sinusoidal stroma . cytohistologic correlation on tissue from the same aspirate has rarely been done . this report describes the cytologic patterns of 50 cases of hcc in terms of histologic pattern observed in cell blocks prepared from the same aspiration specimen and classified according to the world health organization ( who ) classification . tumors were classified according to the predominant pattern . thirty-two cases gave the trabecular pattern . smears could be subdivided into a central-sinusoidal pattern ( 23 cases ) and a peripheral-sinusoidal pattern ( nine cases ) . one case gave the pseudoglandular pattern . seventeen cases gave the compact pattern with inconspicuous sinusoids . in all cases sinusoids were easily recognized in cell block sections . other cytologic features such as intranuclear cytoplasmic inclusions , eosinophilic globules , and bile secretion could be seen in both smears and cell blocks . mallory 's hyalin and ground glass inclusions were only recognized in cell blocks . more attention should be paid to the sinusoidal stroma for diagnosis of hcc in fna ; cell blocks should be more widely utilized to this effect ; cytologic patterns could be classified according to the who histologic classification . 
myeloma of the head of the pancreas . a case report . a 45-year-old man was diagnosed with multiple myeloma , iga-kappa , in 1975 . thirteen years later he presented with obstructive jaundice . computed tomography ( ct ) showed a 6-cm mass in the head of the pancreas . needle aspiration showed myeloma . the jaundice resolved after treatment with radiotherapy . extraosseous involvement by myeloma is frequently found at autopsy but obstructive jaundice from myeloma of the head of the pancreas is quite rare . this atypical complication of myeloma may be related to the patient 's long survival . 
nonseminomatous germ cell tumor with very high serum human chorionic gonadotropin . most patients with disseminated nonseminomatous germ cell tumor ( nsgct ) have an excellent prognosis with modern chemotherapy , although certain subgroups with a worse prognosis have been described . one such subgroup includes patients with high serum levels of the tumor marker , human chorionic gonadotropin ( hcg ) . sixteen patients of 104 treated for nsgct at the crc wessex medical oncology unit ( southampton , uk ) presented with serum hcg greater than 25,000 . most of these patients exhibited features of the " choriocarcinoma syndrome " with bulky , rapidly progressive disease ; frequent pulmonary , hepatic , and central nervous system complications ; and a generally poorer response to standard nsgct chemotherapy . histologic identification of trophoblastic tumor was not made in all patients and is not essential for the diagnosis of the syndrome ; indeed , closed biopsy may be contradicted in some circumstances because of the risk of hemorrhage . the nsgct patients with poor prognosis , including patients with the choriocarcinoma syndrome , must be clearly identified in order to improve management and , eventually , cure rates . 
recurrent renal cell carcinoma arising in wilms ' tumor . a 19-month-old black girl had a radical nephrectomy for a wilms ' tumor that contained areas of epithelium indistinguishable from renal cell carcinoma . she was treated with chemotherapy but subsequently had pulmonary metastases develop and massive abdominal recurrence . the recurrent tumor was histologically renal cell carcinoma with no identifiable wilms ' tumor elements . the child died with recurrent and metastatic tumor 13 months after nephrectomy . pathologic , immunoperoxidase , and flow cytometric studies of this unusual case are presented . 
acute respiratory failure and pulmonary thrombosis in leukemic children . acute respiratory failure ( arf ) in an 11-year-old child with pre-t acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) at the beginning of induction therapy was observed , connected with a pulmonary thrombosis and not with an infective origin . a systematic search for this pathology identified six other children with the same pulmonary complication , five of whom where in the early phase of acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia ( anll ) and one in induction therapy for all in marrow relapse . at the beginning of the symptomatology , all children presented severe hypoxia and hypercapnia , with no or minimal chest radiograph abnormalities and no clear hemodynamic involvement . in all patients the arteriography and nuclear imaging studies confirmed the diagnosis . the causes of the thrombi could be connected with neoplastic emboli after cell lysis and/or with the vascular damage resulting from antiblastic therapy . intravenous urokinase treatment and respiratory assistance had been successfully carried out in six of seven children . 
pregnancy outcome in hematologic malignancies . by means of a mail questionnaire , information on a series of 56 pregnancies i in 48 women diagnosed with leukemia or lymphoma was collected from ten hospitals . seven patients conceived while receiving treatment for their neoplasms ; in 22 patients , the hematologic disease was diagnosed during pregnancy , and the remaining 27 patients became pregnant after completion of the antineoplastic treatment . when a comparison was made of the evolution of these pregnancies to that of pregnancies in a healthy population , no increase in the incidence of complications was observed : 64 % of the pregnancies went to term , 9 % resulted in spontaneous abortion , and 5 % resulted in premature births . the observed incidence of one major malformation in 56 pregnancies did not differ from the frequency of malformations in the offspring of healthy individuals . there were no fetal losses in six pregnancies in which conception occurred during the first year after chemotherapy . in spite of the inherent limitations derived from the design of this type of study and the type of subject analyzed , the data here support the hypothesis that the cytostatic treatment of hematologic malignancies , if deemed necessary , should not be postponed because of pregnancy . moreover , the authors agree with advice recommending that no antifolic or alkylating agents be used for prolonged periods and that radiotherapy be avoided , especially to those fields involving the pelvic area . 
clinical presentation , treatment , and outcome of trilateral retinoblastoma . in this report , three new cases of trilateral retinoblastoma are presented . the clinical presentation , treatment , and outcome of the patients are described and compared with those of 32 cases that have been previously reported in the literature . a positive family history was obtained in 68 % of the patients . the mean age at diagnosis of bilateral retinoblastoma was 7.2 months . the mean age at diagnosis of trilateral disease was 39.7 months , resulting in a mean latent interval of 32.6 months . the mean time from diagnosis of trilateral retinoblastoma to death was 6.6 months , and all patients died with spinal metastases . the patients who received no therapy survived an average of 1.3 months after the diagnosis of trilateral disease . the patients who received any form of definitive therapy survived 9.7 months . five patients who had complete or dramatic response to therapy by computed tomography scans had local intracranial tumor present at autopsy . therefore , more aggressive local therapy may be warranted . 
the role of infection in the morbidity and mortality of patients with head and neck cancer undergoing multimodality therapy . cancer of the head and neck is a common cancer worldwide . the majority of patients present with locally advanced disease . recently a great deal of improvement has been made in multimodality therapy of this disease , warranting more careful consideration of factors affecting quality of life , disease course , and treatment . infection is clearly a factor . analysis of 662 hospital admissions of 169 head and neck cancer patients was performed . a definite infection was documented in 86 febrile episodes , pneumonia contributed to 40 % , bacteremia to 13 % , skin and soft tissue infection to 12 % , and tracheobronchitis to 10 % . among the evaluated risk factors , foreign bodies , specifically intravenous ( iv ) cannulae and gastrostomy tubes , race , performance status , alcohol intake , and nutritional status were statistically significant variables that predicted for or were associated with infection . infection contributed to 44 % of the deaths . 
factors related to and consequences of weight loss in patients with stomach cancer . the norwegian multicenter experience . norwegian stomach cancer trial . of 1165 patients with stomach cancer included in a national , prospective multicenter study with 51 surgical units participating , information about weight loss before diagnosis was available for 855 patients ( 73 % ) . median weight loss was 5 kg ; 259 patients ( 31 % ) experienced no weight loss . by logistic regression analysis the authors found that weight loss increased with age and advancing stages of disease ( tnm stage i-iv ) , with decreasing karnofsky index , in lauren 's diffuse versus intestinal tumor type , and with tumors located at the cardia/esophagus . increasing weight loss reduced the resectability rate significantly , but no association between weight loss and postoperative complication rate was found . the odds ratio for postoperative mortality was 2.5 to 1 for the weight loss group 5 to 10kg versus 0 kg . in conclusion , weight loss reflects a less favorable tumor status . weight loss did not increase postoperative morbidity but did lead weight to a higher death rate after surgery . 
intrapericardial infusion of 5-fluorouracil . an unusual complication of a hickman catheter . venous access devices ( vad ) have become an important tool in the management of patients with cancer . multiple complications can occur as a consequence of insertion of a vad . the authors report a case of a hickman catheter perforating the wall of the superior vena cava into the pericardium , resulting in accidental intrapericardial infusion of 5-fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) . pericarditis and cardiac arrhythmias developed , but the patient did not have cardiac tamponade . she recovered from the event without apparent chronic cardiac dysfunction . 
zinc and copper in breast cancer . a joint study in northern italy and southern france . the relationship between breast cancer and two trace elements , zinc ( zn ) and copper ( cu ) , was investigated by means of an hospital based case-control study at milan ( italy ) and montpellier ( france ) . variables concerning dietary intake of zn and cu ( in milan ) and their blood levels ( both in milan and montpellier ) were measured . dietary intake , evaluated through a questionnaire of the dietary history type , and blood levels of zn and cu were measured in 261 cases and 261 controls . cu blood level showed a contradictory tendency in the two samples ( higher in controls in milan , higher in cases in montpellier ) , which tended to lessen after adjustment for related variables . no odds ratios ( or ) in the different quantiles , nor x2 for trend reached statistical significance . a sharp difference was evidenced on the opposite with regard to zn blood values in cases and controls . in both samples zn mean values are significantly higher in cases than in controls , and the difference remains significant in the two samples even after adjustment for related variables . the pooled or computed from the two samples , after adjustment for known risk factors and related variables , reaches in the fourth quartile a value of 9.5 ( ci : 4.9-18 .2 ) . dietary intake of the two minerals ( measured only in milan sample ) showed no difference between cases and controls , but a stronger relationship between dietary and blood zn was evidenced in cases with respect to controls . the authors suggest that the higher zn level in cases might be related with an higher incorporation of zn in cancer cases and that the same mineral might play a possible role in tumor growth promotion . 
comparative epidemiology of cancer between the united states and japan . a second look . vital statistics were examined for the years 1955 through 1985 for japanese natives and united states whites to elucidate changes in cancer mortality and related antecedent patterns of life-style in these two populations . results show that lung cancer rates are rapidly accelerating among japanese males as a consequence of their prior history of heavy cigarette smoking . oropharyngeal cancer rates are also rising in japan paralleling increases in alcohol and tobacco utilization . as the japanese life-style and diet continue to become more " westernized , " the rates of malignancies of the breast , ovary , corpus uteri , prostate , pancreas , and colon also continue to rise . nevertheless , the mortality patterns of certain malignancies , viz. , laryngeal , esophageal , and urinary bladder cancer , are discrepant with their established risk factor associations , suggesting the existence of other differences in risk factor exposure between the two countries . epidemiologists and health educators need to develop innovative international programs of investigation and health promotion with preventive impact on common malignancies associated with risk factors of life-style . 
gastrointestinal intraluminal ph in normal subjects and those with colorectal adenoma or carcinoma . recent evidence suggests that the production of colorectal carcinogens is facilitated when the ph of the colonic contents is alkaline . it follows that the colonic intraluminal ph of patients with colorectal neoplasms should be higher than in normal subjects . gastrointestinal ph has been measured in 30 patients with colorectal cancer and 37 patients with benign colorectal adenomas ( using a ph sensitive radiotelemetry capsule ) . these values have been compared with those recorded in 66 normal subjects . no differences in gastrointestinal ph were found and the results did not support the hypothesis that colonic ph plays a role in the aetiology of colorectal neoplasia . 
in vitro anticolon antibody production by mucosal or peripheral blood lymphocytes from patients with ulcerative colitis [ published erratum appears in gut 1991 apr ; 32 ( 4 ) :460 ] serum anticolon antibody and in vitro anti-colon antibody production by peripheral blood and mucosal lymphocytes was investigated in patients with ulcerative colitis . the frequency of serum anticolon antibody was 71 % in 41 patients with ulcerative colitis , estimated by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) using isolated rat colon epithelial cells . this finding confirms our previous report on the frequency of serum anticolon antibody detected by flow cytometry analysis . the estimated frequencies of igg anticolon antibody secreting cells were 1.5-12 .5 / 10 ( 6 ) cells in the colonic mucosa and 0.1-0 .5 / 10 ( 6 ) cells in peripheral blood , from patients with ulcerative colitis when epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) was used as a b cell polyclonal activator . poisson analysis of limiting dilution culture showed that about one per 140 igg cells in the colonic mucosa synthesised anticolon antibody . two monoclonal igg antibodies were obtained from ebv transformed anticolon antibody secreting cells by limiting dilution method . one reacted with goblet cells in the intestine , and the other reacted mainly with colonic epithelial cells . these results suggest that heterogeneous anticolon antibodies are present in patients with ulcerative colitis and that colonic mucosa may be the main source of anticolon antibody . local autoimmune reaction might have an important role in causing the inflammation of colonic mucosa in this disease . 
rectal mucosal dysplasia in crohn 's disease . serial sections of 812 rectal biopsy specimens from 356 crohn 's disease patients were analysed for mucosal epithelial dysplasia . dysplasia was found in 18 patients ( 5 % ) , with four showing dysplasia on repeat biopsy specimen . in these 22 biopsy specimens the dysplasia was mild in 13 , moderate in nine , and severe in none . subsequently , three patients ( 17 % ) developed neoplasms including carcinoma in two and an adenomatous polyp in one . in colectomy specimens which showed dysplasia , significantly more dysplastic changes were found in seven patients who underwent colonic resection than in 10 others who underwent operation but had no prior dysplasia ( p less than 0.001 ) . thirteen patients still have their rectum in situ and remain at risk of developing colonic cancer . four carcinomas developed in patients with crohn 's disease who did not have dysplasia on rectal biopsy specimen . 
type ii oestrogen binding sites in human colorectal carcinoma . seven cases of colorectal adenocarcinomas were investigated for the presence of oestrogen receptors and progesterone receptors . the tumours specifically bound oestradiol . this binding almost exclusively resulted from the presence of high numbers of type ii oestrogen binding sites . oestrogen receptors were absent or present at very low concentrations . immunohistochemical investigation of nuclear oestrogen receptors gave negative results . this indicates that antioestrogen receptor antibodies recognise oestrogen receptors but not type ii oestrogen binding sites . the presence of specific type ii oestrogen binding sites and progesterone binding offers further evidence for a potential role for these steroids and their receptors in colorectal carcinoma . 
primary lymphoma of the liver : clinical and pathological features of 10 patients . nine out of 10 patients with primary lymphoma of the liver presented in a manner that did not suggest a tumour . the initial diagnoses were chronic active hepatitis in three cases and " granulomatous cholangitis " , inflammatory pseudotumour , and anaplastic carcinoma in one case each . moreover , extensive haemorrhagic necrosis in three cases initially suggested the budd-chiari syndrome . all the tumours were diffuse non-hodgkin 's lymphomas like the 50 cases reported previously , but they differed from most of these in that nine were of t cell phenotype . five were pleomorphic small t cell , two t zone , and two t lymphoblastic lymphomas : only one was centrocytic and of b cell lineage . this report extends the range of clinical manifestations ( diffuse hepatomegaly without a tumour ) , histological appearances ( resemblance to chronic inflammatory or vascular liver diseases ) and phenotype ( of t cell lineage ) of primary lymphoma of the liver : these features seemed to be related in this series . recognition is important as prognosis remains favourable in appropriately treated cases . although the appearances of the liver biopsy specimens may be difficult to interpret , the destructiveness of the infiltrate is an important clue to the diagnosis . 
comparative in situ hybridisation study of juvenile laryngeal papillomatosis in papua new guinea and australia . a comparative study of cases of juvenile laryngeal papillomatosis from papua new guinea ( n = 3 ) and brisbane , australia ( n = 9 ) was carried out . in situ hybridisation reactions for human papillomavirus ( hpv ) types 6 and 11 occurred in 11 cases . all three cases from papua new guinea and eight from australia gave positive signals . a negative reaction was observed in one australian case . the intensity of the reaction was strong in seven cases , moderate in one , and weak in three . an equivocal reaction was also noted with probes for types 16 and 18 , and types 31 , 33 , and 35 in two cases from australia and one from papua new guinea . it is concluded that as similar staining patterns and intensities occurred in cases from both areas , the aetiology is the same . the equivocal reactions noted in three cases were probably due to cross hybridisation rather than multiple infection . 
monoclonal antibody b72 .3 in benign breast lesions . it has been suggested that the monoclonal antibody b72 .3 may be useful as a diagnostic tool in fine needle aspirates of breast masses because it recognises " tumour associated glycoprotein ( tag ) -72 " . the antigen was sought in paraffin wax sections of 43 normal and benign breast biopsy specimens , using the avidin-biotin complex technique , to assess the extent of its presence in non-malignant tissue . strong focal staining was seen in 21 ( 49 % ) cases . in 29 cases of fibrocystic change staining was present in 17 ( 59 % ) . all areas of apocrine metaplasia were positive , as well as a few normal ducts and acini and occasional areas of adenosis . focal positivity was present in five out of 12 foci of ductal epithelial hyperplasia and in three out of seven radial scars . staining was absent in two areas of lobular hyperplasia , three areas of sclerosing adenosis , and in a focus of lactational change . focal positivity was also seen in two out of five fibroadenomas and in two out of three intraduct papillomas . five normal subareolar sections and a section of normal lactating breast were negative . it is concluded that b72 .3 monoclonal antibody can show focal reactivity with a variety of normal and benign epithelial mammary structures , and it is doubtful that its use would be of any help in differentiating benign from malignant cells in fine needle aspirates . 
improved silver staining of nucleolar organiser regions in paraffin wax sections using an inverted incubation technique [ published erratum appears in j clin pathol 1991 jun ; 44 ( 6 ) :528 ] a new simple modification to the silver staining of nucleolar organiser regions ( agnors ) was devised which , by performing the incubation with the slide inverted , results in minimal undesirable background staining , a persistent problem . inverted incubation is facilitated by the use of a commercially available plastic coverplate . this technique has several additional advantages over other published staining protocols . in particular , the method is straightforward , fast , and maintains a high degree of contrast between the background and the agnors . 
refractory parastomal ulcers : a multidisciplinary approach . chronic parastomal ulcers in patients with ileostomy or colostomy stomas are unusual . previous reports have implicated infections , fistulas , recurrent inflammatory bowel disease ( ibd ) , pyoderma gangrenosum , and trauma . over the past 8 years we have evaluated 10 cases of such refractory parastomal ulcers that occurred at a mean of 11 years after stomal surgery . eight patients had had an ileostomy for ibd while two had undergone colostomy for colon cancer . five patients with ibd were diagnosed as having pyoderma gangrenosum ulcerations . they required systemic treatment for a mean of 25 weeks to effect ulcer healing . the other five patients had either parastomal ulcers on the basis of dermatoses ( contact dermatitis , eczema , or bullous pemphigoid ) or contact ulcers due to face-plate pressure and parastomal dermatitis . these patients received topical treatment with healing of ulcers in a mean of 4 weeks . we conclude that parastomal ulcers occurring in patients without ibd or ibd patients without classic pyoderma gangrenosum require early dermatologic evaluation as they respond relatively quickly to appropriate local therapy . 
ileal duplication cyst causing massive bleeding in a child . intestinal duplication is a rare congenital anomaly ; nonetheless , it comprises more than half of all alimentary duplication disorders . our case report describes the hemorrhagic sequelae of this entity with surgical and pathologic findings . a review of anatomical classification , embryology , and natural history of duplication cyst follows ; differentiating characteristics of duplication cyst versus meckel 's diverticulum are outlined . intestinal duplication cyst should be considered in the differential diagnosis of gi bleeding , especially in children . 
small bowel obstruction associated with a leiomyomatous uterus . a case report and review of the literature . a 38-year-old woman developed small bowel obstruction shortly after a cholecystectomy because of a massively enlarged leiomyomatous uterus . small bowel obstruction is a relatively rare complication from fibroid tumors and results from entrapment of the bowel between serosal pedunculated fibroids ( as in this patient ) , adhesions to infarcted leiomyomas , or from compression of the small bowel by the large mass . large uterine leiomyomas clearly must be considered in the etiology of intestinal obstruction . 
cystic mesothelioma of peritoneum : occurrence in a man . we report a case of cystic mesothelioma of the peritoneum in a 54-year-old man in whom cystic masses were removed twice by surgery at an interval of 2 years . the patient died of cardiac arrest shortly after the second operation for a concurrent unresectable colonic cancer . the pathogenesis of the disease is uncertain , but we consider it neoplastic of low grade malignancy . 
neuromesenchymal hamartoma of the small bowel . we present the case of a long small bowel stricture with pathological features similar to those described as " neuromuscular and vascular hamartoma , " showing in addition extensive fatty submucosal infiltration and fibrous intramural nodules . in the controversy about the nature of this disorder , we consider it a separate entity . taking into account that other mesenchymal tissues than the originally described can participate , we propose the alternative term of " neuromesenchymal hamartoma " of the small bowel . 
early inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone after trans-sphenoidal pituitary adenomectomy . the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone ( siadh ) is a rare but life-threatening complication of trans-sphenoidal pituitary adenomectomy . it has previously only been described as a late phenomenon . we report an early presentation within the first week . the pathophysiology , clinical features and treatment are discussed . 
marijuana smoking as a possible cause of tongue carcinoma in young patients . a case of t1n0m0 carcinoma of the tongue in a male 23-year-old ' regular ' marijuana smoker is described . hemiglossectomy and complete bilateral neck dissection were carried out . no post-operative radiotherapy was given as the resection margins were histologically negative . the tumour recurred one year later in the left cervical region involving the mandible and surgery was again performed , but after three months , neck disease was still evident . the case described case implies the introduction of marijuana as a possible new risk factor in the development of oral cavity tumours . resection of the primary lesion has to be as wide as possible even in t1 cases , due to the aggressive biological behaviour of such tumours in young subjects . 
pharyngeal adenocarcinoma with intestinal features . a high grade adenocarcinoma arising primarily in the pharynx of a 67-year-old man is presented . a ct-scan revealed a tumour mass growing in the pharynx , largely affecting parapharyngeal soft tissues . lymph node metastases were found at clinical presentation . both morphological and immunohistochemical studies displayed similar features to those of intestinal origin . to our knowledge , no previous examples of such neoplasm have been reported at this site . its possible histogenetical origin is discussed . 
fourth branchial pouch anomaly . we present an extremely rare case of fourth branchial fistula in a 23-year-old male . the characteristic clinical feature was a recurrent left lower neck abscess which did not respond to appropriate medical and surgical therapy . radiography and a computed tomographic scan with contrast material revealed a fistula running from the apex of the left pyriform sinus ( internal opening ) to the left lower neck abscess . the fistula tract was excised surgically . histological examination of the excised fistula revealed a squamous epithelial lining and subepithelial lymphoid tissue . this pyriform sinus fistula is thought to be of fourth pharyngeal pouch origin , because of its surgical aspects and the histological findings of the excised fistula . 
cystic hygroma : massive recurrence in adult life . cystic hygroma is considered a disease of childhood . it may appear for the first time in adult life but recurrence by that stage is rare and may present difficulties in diagnosis due to previous treatment . the authors present a case where early pharmacological intervention may have prevented a potentially life threatening situation . the world literature is also reviewed . 
papillary adenocarcinoma of the middle ear . a case of papillary adenocarcinoma of the middle ear is presented . the patient had an unusually short history of otalgia , aural discharge and facial palsy , and , at presentation the tumour was too large for surgical resection to be a feasible option . the management of this rare tumour is discussed and the relevant literature reviewed . 
a case of amnesia after excision of the septum pellucidum . tumours of the septum pellucidum ( sp ) are rare and seldom associated with memory impairment either before or after operation . a patient is described who developed amnesia after transcallosal excision of a tumour of the sp . radiology did not show any major lesion of the brain areas traditionally associated with amnesia . because septal nuclei could have been damaged during surgery their possible role in memory functions is discussed . 
trends in female breast cancer in connecticut and the united states . trends for female breast cancer were examined by age , period and cohort for the years 1950-1984 in u.s. mortality . connecticut mortality and connecticut incidence . birth cohort patterns were evident for all three sets of data . the results confirm a continuing increase in invasive breast cancer by providing evidence of a strong birth cohort pattern , over a time series of 90 years of birth cohorts . this trend appears to be real for the most part because of the cohort patterns and because there is minimal underdetection in data obtained by autopsy and blind biopsy . secondly , when cohort modeling is applied to breast cancer mortality , there is an indication of a modest decline in recent breast cancer mortality ( in the face of an apparent long-term increase ) , which suggests that control of breast cancer mortality may have developed in recent decades , perhaps through earlier detection and improved treatment . finally , in contrast with a prior report , there is little evidence for a clinically important difference in time trend between pre - and postmenopausal breast cancer . 
recent life change and large bowel cancer . data from the melbourne colorectal cancer study . in a large , population based , epidemiological study of colorectal cancer , the melbourne colorectal cancer study , several etiological factors were investigated . persons ' recent life changes , as well as the degree of upset they experienced as a result of these changes , were included . interviews with 715 histologically confirmed new cases of colorectal cancer occurring over a 12-month period in melbourne , australia , and with 727 age and sex matched community controls were conducted . as one of the methods of assessing any effect of recall bias , 179 hospital controls were also investigated . major illness or death of a family member , major family problems and major work problems were found to be significantly more common for cases over the 5 years preceding diagnosis compared to controls . cases also reported being significantly more upset with their recent life changes than did controls . no significant differences in results were found between males and females , or between colon cancer and rectal cancer patients . although the possibility of recall bias , was not completely controlled for in this study , it was probably not an important factor in explaining case-control differences . recent life changes , and their perceptions , may have significance in the development of large bowel cancer . 
clustering of cancer in families of patients with primary lung cancer . we have previously shown that patients with a positive family history of lung cancer did not exhibit characteristics expected if the familial association was a surrogate for a genetic mechanism which was absent in those without such a history . in this study , we examine the incidence of cancer ( all sites ) in two groups of families : ( a ) those ascertained through a patient with primary lung cancer ( n = 359 families ) and ( b ) through a community control subject ( n = 234 ) . the index subjects were excluded from all incidence data analyses . most families ( 62 vs 57 % ) reported at least one member with a history of neoplastic disease . patients ' families were more likely to have 2 or more affected members ( p less than 0.05 ) , to exhibit a multigenerational pattern ( 33 vs 24 % ) and to have a higher risk of multiple tumours ( or = 1.5 ) in the same individual . however , most of the sites with the highest odds ratios ( males , vocal cord/esophagus 8.3 ; colon/rectum 2.3 ; lung 1.96 ; females , pancreas 4.8 ; vocal/cord esophagus 4.1 ; lung 1.8 ) are smoking associated although these were not necessarily the most frequently affected sites . in conclusion , these data support an ecogenetic etiology of cancer within families . 
spect quantitation of iodine-131 concentration in phantoms and human tumors . the validity of spect measurement of iodine-131 ( 131i ) concentration was tested in vitro in phantoms and in vivo by measuring bladder urine concentrations . phantom studies comparing known and spect measured concentrations showed a good correlation for 131i ( r = 0.98 , s.e.e. = 20.94 counts/voxel ) for phantoms of 25 to 127 cc and concentrations of 0.13 to 9.5 microci/cc . the in vivo , in vitro correlation of 131i concentrations in the urine was also good ( r = 0.98 , s.e.e. = 0.677 microci/cc ) . quantitative spect was used to calculate the effective half-life and dosimetry of radioiodine in 12 sites of thyroid carcinoma in seven patients . spect was also used to determine the dosimetry of [ 131i ] mibg ( metaiodobenzylguanidine ) in two patients with carcinoid , two with neuroblastoma , and one with pheochromocytoma . the radiation dose for thyroid carcinoma metastases varied between 6.3 and 276.9 rad/mci . the dose from mibg varied between 13.4 and 57.8 rad/mci . these results indicate the validity of quantitative spect for in vivo measurement of 131i and the need to measure the concentration of 131i in individual human tumor sites . 
management of patients with thyroid carcinoma : application of thallium-201 scintigraphy and magnetic resonance imaging thyroid carcinoma has the ability to concentrate radioiodine , an attribute that can be used both for detection of thyroid cells and for treatment . unfortunately , however , radioiodine uptake is not observed in all patients and a radioiodine scan requires that the patient be rendered hypothyroid for 4-6 wk . in the present study , we analyzed the utility of thallium-201 scanning and the usefulness of magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) in the detection of thyroid cancer . nineteen patients with thyroid cancer had a total of 24 radioiodine scans , 33 thallium scans , and 10 mri examinations . of the 19 patients in the study , 17 had differentiated thyroid carcinoma . in these 17 cases , all paired studies were concordant for the presence ( n = 7 ) or absence ( n = 10 ) of disease . however , in one case ( patient 10 ) , the 201tl studies showed far more extensive disease than was observed on the 131i scan . thyroid cancer was also detected on seven mri studies . in summary , thallium and mri scans are adjunctive techniques to radioiodine scanning that can either confirm the presence of neck bed activity , residual disease or metastatic cancer and may delineate tumor deposits not detected by radioiodine scanning . thallium may be capable of detecting tumor deposits even while a patient remains euthyroid . 
indium-111-antimyosin scintigraphy after doxorubicin therapy in patients with advanced breast cancer indium-111-antimyosin ( 111in-antimyosin ) scans were performed in 20 women with advanced breast cancer after 10 cycles of chemotherapy consisting of cyclophosphamide , 5-fluorouracil and doxorubicin ( total cumulative dose of doxorubicin of 500 mg/m2 ) . antimyosin uptake in the myocardium was quantified by means of a heart-to-lung ratio ( hlr ) . antimyosin uptake in the myocardium was observed in 17/20 ( 85 % ) patients , and hlr after chemotherapy was 1.86 + / - 0.25 . left ventricular ejection fraction ( ef ) was determined before and after chemotherapy . patients with decreased ef ( 8/20 , 40 % ) presented with more intense antimyosin uptake ( hlr of 2.11 + / - 0.10 versus 1.70 + / - 0.16 ( p = 0.01 ] . hlr values correlated with ef values after chemotherapy ( r = -0.47 , p less than 0.05 ) . positive antimyosin studies after chemotherapy including doxorubicin , indicate the presence of myocardial damage in these patients . antimyosin studies are a sensitive method to detect myocyte damage in patients after doxorubicin therapy . 
indium-labeled anti-colorectal carcinoma monoclonal antibody accumulation in non-tumored tissue in patients with colorectal carcinoma . indium-111 - ( 111in ) labeled murine monoclonal antibodies zce 025 ( against carcinoembryonic antigen ) and cyt-103 mab b72 .3 ( against tumor-associated glycoprotein - 72 ) have been used to image patients with colorectal cancers with encouraging results . the objectives of this study were to assess the frequency and causes of 111in mab localization in tumor-free , benign tissues . thus , scans of 75 patients who have undergone exploratory surgery following radioimmunoscintigraphy with 111in-zce 025 ( n = 37 ) or 111in-cyt-103 ( n = 38 ) were reviewed in conjunction with operative and histopathology reports . localization in non-tumored tissues was seen in 10.8 % and 13.1 % , respectively , of patients receiving zce 025 and cyt-103 . the most common sites involved were : degenerative joint disease , abdominal aneurysms , postoperative bowel adhesions , and local inflammatory changes secondary to surgery or external irradiation . review of patients ' medical history and results of concurrent diagnostic modalities is likely to lessen the false-positive rate of 111in-labeled mab scan interpretation . 
6 - [ 18f ] fluoro-l-fucose : a possible tracer for assessing glycoconjugate synthesis in tumors with positron emission tomography . the potential of 6 - [ 18f ] fluoro-l-fucose ( 6 - [ 18f ] ffuc ) for assessing glycoconjugate synthesis in tumors with positron emission tomography ( pet ) was investigated . using the tissue sampling method with five tumor models , different time-radioactivity profiles were found : a nearly constant level in lewis lung carcinoma ( 3ll ) and different clearance patterns in others . rapid clearance in normal tissues resulted in preferable uptake ratios for tumor imaging of brain and pancreas . metabolic studies and the l-fucose loading effects on the tissue uptake proved the tracer to be a biochemically active l-fucose analog . imaging of the intracranial rat glioma and 3ll in lungs or hepatomas in mice by autoradiography ( arg ) and intramuscular vx-2 carcinoma in rabbits by pet was demonstrated . using double-radionuclide arg , similar distribution images of 6 - [ 18f ] ffuc and 14c-l-fucose but different tumor-to-liver uptake ratios were found . a metastasis model seemed to show a higher uptake of both tracers as compared to a primary tumor model . 
spect imaging of pediatric brain tumor with hexakis ( methoxyisobutylisonitrile ) technetium ( i ) . technetium-99m-hexamibi [ hexakis ( methoxyisobutylisonitrile ) technetium ( i ) ] was developed as a myocardial perfusion agent with biologic properties similar to those of thallium-201 ( 201ti ) . as 201ti has recently been observed to be of value for the diagnosis of brain tumors when used in conjunction with single-photon emission computed tomography ( spect ) imaging technology , the possibility that the biologic similarity of the two radiopharmaceuticals extended to their affinity for tumors was tested . a 5-yr-old female patient with a brain stem astrocytoma showed marked focal uptake of 99mtc-hexamibi at the site of tumor recurrence as defined by biopsy and prior 201ti/spect study . tumor-to-normal cortex radioactivity ratios for the 99mtc-hexamibi/spect study were 132:1 and the spatial resolution of the 99mtc-hexamibi images was high . this observation suggests that 99mtc-hexamibi merits further study as a potential agent for spect imaging of human brain tumors . 
beta camera for static and dynamic imaging of charged-particle emitting radionuclides in biologic samples . a detection system based on microchannel plates has been constructed to image charged particles emitted by radionuclides in biomedical samples . this technique has significant advantages over conventional film autoradiography for investigating the distribution of radiolabeled compounds : shorter acquisition times due to the high sensitivity , easier sample handling , direct quantification and the ability to perform dynamic studies . the detector performance shows a spatial resolution of 0.9 mm for carbon-14 ( 14c ) ( 0.156 mev ) , good linearity and homogeneity . the noise level is below 50 / ( cm2.sec ) . successful imaging with this system has been performed with beta-emitters 14c , sulfur-35 ( 35s ) , iodine-131 ( 131i ) , yttrium-90 ( 90y ) , and positron emitters gallium-68 ( 68ga ) , and fluorine-18 ( 18f ) . dynamic studies of axonal transport of 35s-methionine in a nerve , and static images of 90y-labeled monoclonal antibodies in slices of tumors are presented . the system shows promise for rapid quantitative imaging of charged-particle emitting radionuclides in small biologic samples . 
treatment of childhood angiomatous diseases with recombinant interferon alfa-2a . a heterogeneous group of five patients with progressive , invasive angiomatous diseases including pulmonary hemangiomatosis , angiosarcoma , or massive hemangioma with associated consumptive coagulopathy were treated with interferon alfa-2a for periods of 17 to 33 months . one patient with a large thoracic hemangioma , cardiorespiratory failure , and consumptive coagulopathy died after less than 2 months of treatment . the remaining four patients have shown beneficial responses , including ( 1 ) regression of abnormal vessels on pulmonary angiogram and improved exercise tolerance in pulmonary hemangiomatosis ( two patients ) , ( 2 ) decreased corticosteroid and/or platelet transfusion requirements in consumptive coagulopathy ( two patients ) , and ( 3 ) decreased size and number of tumor nodules in the one patient with angiosarcoma arising in preexisting angiomatous lesions . responses occurred during periods of 2 to 20 months of treatment . there was no measurable progression of angiomatous lesions in any patient receiving interferon at the therapeutic dose , except possibly in the one who died . each of the four surviving patients had improved linear growth and weight gain during interferon treatment . 
renal function in obstructive jaundice in man : cholangiocarcinoma model . renal function with respect to water clearance and renal hemodynamics was studied in 15 patients with obstructive jaundice due to cholangiocarcinoma . the results were compared with those of the control normal subjects . there was no change in renal function in the patients with mild to moderate jaundice , with total serum bilirubin from 8.0 to 15.1 mg/dl . increased urinary sodium excretion and decreased free water and negative water clearances were observed in the patients with severe jaundice with total serum bilirubin from 27.0 to 40.4 mg/dl and normal serum albumin . renal blood flow was normal , but creatinine clearance was decreased . in severely jaundiced patients with serum bilirubin from 30.5 to 40.1 mg/dl and hypoalbuminemia urinary sodium excretion , free water clearance , negative water clearance , renal blood flow and creatinine clearance were decreased . there was salt and water retention in this group . the findings suggest that in severe jaundice there is inhibition of sodium chloride reabsorption in the thick ascending limb of henle 's loop . adh and increased hydraulic conductivity of the collecting tubules possibly contribute to decreased free water clearance . in severely jaundiced patients with hypoalbuminemia this salt losing effect is converted to salt retention by increased proximal tubular reabsorption of sodium . 
postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer : prognostic value of dna ploidy and post-recurrent survival . eighty-six patients with non-small cell lung cancer who underwent curative operations were postoperatively randomized to control and adjuvant chemotherapy groups . in the adjuvant chemotherapy group , patients received cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy 3 or 4 weeks after operation and the average cycle of chemotherapy was 2.3 ( from 1 to 6 cycles ) . in this trial , no evidence of improved survival or delayed recurrence was seen in the treated patients . in multivariate analysis of prognostic variables , the most important factor was the pathological stage of the disease and , second , dna ploidy of the primary tumor . although histology ( squamous vs. non-squamous cell carcinoma ) had a trend to influence the survival , it was not a significant factor . a total of 33 patients had recurrences : 17 and 16 patients were in control and adjuvant chemotherapy groups , respectively . postrecurrent survival in the adjuvant chemotherapy group was significantly shorter than that in the control group , as determined by the generalized wilcoxon and log rank tests . median survival time after recurrence in the control and adjuvant therapy groups was 18.5 and 7.5 months , respectively . these results suggest that dna ploidy of primary tumors should be considered as a prognostic factor in future trials of adjuvant therapy . furthermore , analysis of postrecurrent survival in the adjuvant chemotherapy trial , as well as that of overall and disease-free survivals should be done . 
modified anterior compartment resection . in the majority of patients with soft tissue sarcomas of the anterior compartment of the thigh , it is possible to preserve a small portion of the quadriceps with intact nerve supply without compromising on the radicality of the procedure or the local control rate . the distal one-third of the vastus medialis can usually be spared with a long , slender branch providing its innervation . dissection of the femoral nerve below the inguinal ligament and its branch ( es ) to an uninvolved area of the quadricepts the farthest from the location of the tumor is essential . this modified anterior compartment resection improves dramatically the function of the extremity . 
leukocyte alkaline phosphatase score in patients with cerebrovascular disease and in patients with primary and metastatic brain tumors . leukocyte alkaline phosphatase ( lap ) activity in peripheral blood was determined in 54 patients with cerebrovascular disease ( cvd ) , 11 patients with primary brain tumor , and 23 patients with metastatic brain tumor . the lap score of the primary brain tumor patients ( 155 + / - 40 ) was significantly higher ( p less than 0.03 ) than the lap score for cerebrovascular disease patients ( 96 + / - 87 ) . the lap score levels of the metastatic brain tumor patients ( 251 + / - 55 ) was significantly higher as compared with both the cerebrovascular disease ( p less than 0.001 ) and primary brain tumor groups ( p less than 0.001 ) . the lap score could serve as an additional , although non-specific , marker to assist in the differentiation between cerebrovascular disease and brain tumors . 
dysgerminoma of the ovary : review of 27 cases . twenty-seven patients with pure dysgerminoma were seen at the tata memorial hospital , bombay , between january 1980 and december 1984 . of the 10 patients in stage i , 2 patients underwent a unilateral salpingoophorectomy ( uso ) and were kept under observation without any adjuvant therapy , while the remaining patients received adjuvant treatment following surgery . all of the 6 patients in stage ii and 4 of 7 in stage iii had total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy ( tahbso ) followed by postoperative radiotherapy . one patient presented in stage iv and 3 patients presented with recurrence after previous definitive treatment undertaken at other institutions . the disease free , as well as the overall survival , at 108 months , for the 24 cases primarily treated at this institution , is 81 % and 88 % respectively , and , for patients in stages i and ii , 100 % ( kaplan-meier estimation ) . the need for controlled clinical trials to devise optimal therapy in the early clinical stages and use of chemotherapy for advanced stages of this highly curable entity are stressed . 
renal oncocytoma : long-term follow-up and flow cytometric dna analysis . we report a retrospective study on the clinicopathologic features and flow cytometric dna analysis of ten renal oncocytomas compared with a control group of ten randomly selected renal cell carcinomas . among the oncocytoma patients , no recurrences or metastases were noted over an average follow-up of 6.7 years ( range = 6 months to 16 years ) . reproducible , high-quality dna histograms were obtained on the paraffin-embedded specimens by using our modified flow cytometric procedure . one aneuploid ( 10 % ) and two hyperdiploid tumors ( 20 % ) were found in the oncocytoma group . there was no correlation between these abnormal dna histographic patterns and survival or tumor stages . on the contrary , a good correlation was found between tumor grades and dna ploidy in the controls . we conclude that renal oncocytoma is a clinically benign tumor , yet it may exhibit varying degrees of flow cytometric dna abnormalities , which have no predictive value on survival and probably reflect the characteristics of oncocytes rather than its malignant potential . 
granular cell neoplasm of the extrahepatic biliary tree : morphological , ultrastructural , and immunohistochemical study and review of the literature . a recent case of a biliary granular cell tumor of the cystic duct prompted a literature review and an extensive pathological examination of the tumor in question . a total of 44 cases have been described mostly in black females . most cases present with biliary symptoms , and simple surgical resection allows complete control of this benign condition . granular cell tumors are most likely derived from neural crest cells . 
bilateral malignant phyllodes tumours . we report a rare example of bilateral primary malignant phyllodes tumours . the diagnosis was supported by the identification of a benign epithelial element in each lesion . the case illustrates the typical dimorphic features of malignant phyllodes tumours . a contralateral tumour should not be regarded as metastatic without histological confirmation . 
adjuvant , specific , active immunotherapy for resectable squamous cell lung carcinoma : a 5-year survival analysis . in 1976 stewart et al . ( annals of the new york academy of sciences 277:436 -466 ) reported the effectiveness of adjuvant specific active immunotherapy of lung carcinoma in improving the postoperative survival of stage i lung carcinoma patients in a phase ii study using lung carcinoma-associated antigen ( taa ) and complete freund 's adjuvant ( cfa ) . a phase iii study was then designed by the authors to see the effects of specific active immunotherapy compared to the conventional management ( no treatment ) and to nonspecific immunotherapy . from 1976 to 1981 , 85 patients with resectable ( stages i and ii ) squamous cell lung carcinoma were entered into a randomized study : 1 ) control group ; 2 ) specific immunotherapy group -- three monthly doses of 500 micrograms of taa emulsified with cfa ; 3 ) nonspecific immunotherapy group -- three monthly doses of cfa emulsified in saline . all the patients in the study received skin tests with 100 micrograms of the same taa used for the immunotherapy . recently , a 5-year follow-up of all the patients became available : the life table 5-year survival of group 1 was 34 % , of group 2 was 75 % , and of group 3 was 53 % . the median survivals for the three groups were group 1 , 38 months ; group 2 , 106 months ; and group 3 , 71 months . the difference was significant at p = .007 ( cox-mantel test ) . 
unusual malignant neoplasms of the esophagus . oat cell carcinoma , melanoma , and sarcoma . primary noncarcinomatous malignant neoplasms of the esophagus are uncommon and data concerning treatment and results are sparse . to evaluate the results of therapy in this group , we reviewed the records of 32 patients with primary esophageal malignant tumors of unusual histologic type . thirteen patients ( 41 % ) had sarcoma , eight ( 25 % ) melanoma , and 11 ( 34 % ) had oat cell carcinoma . dysphagia was present in 78 % ( 25/32 ) of the patients for a median of 13 weeks before diagnosis . location of the esophageal primary tumor was upper third in four patients ( 12 % ) , middle third in 12 ( 38 % ) , and lower third in 16 ( 50 % ) . treatment consisted of esophagectomy in 10 of 13 patients with sarcoma ( 77 % ) , seven of eight with melanoma ( 88 % ) , and three of 11 with oat cell carcinoma ( 27 % ) . patients not undergoing resection received chemotherapy or radiation therapy , or both . the 3 - and 5-year survival rates were 46 % and 23 % for sarcoma ( median 20 months ) , 13 % and 0 % for melanoma ( median 5 months ) , and 0 % and 0 % for oat cell carcinoma ( median 5 months ) , respectively . distant disease was the initial form of recurrence in 73 % ( 11/15 ) of patients undergoing curative therapy . surgical resection appears indicated for localized primary esophageal sarcoma . optimum treatment of primary esophageal melanoma is less clear , but surgical resection may be of benefit in selected patients . esophageal oat cell carcinoma is a systemic disease necessitating systemic therapy with local therapy reserved for palliation of dysphagia . 
migration stimulating activity in serum of breast cancer patients . an assay to measure the ability to stimulate migration of fibroblasts into collagen gel was carried out on serum from treated and untreated breast cancer patients and from healthy controls . migration stimulating activity was found in the serum of 10 ( 83 % ) of 12 untreated breast cancer patients immediately before surgical resection of the primary tumour and in 9 ( 75 % ) of them 4 days after resection ; in 13 ( 93 % ) of 14 patients 1-13 years after tumour resection who had received adjuvant treatment ; and in 2 ( 10 % ) of 20 healthy women matched for age . the migration stimulating activity in cancer patients ' serum was indistinguishable from the migration stimulating factor produced in vitro by fetal and cancer patient skin fibroblasts in its behaviour in various biochemical fractionation procedures . the presence of this activity in the serum of treated breast cancer patients clearly distinguishes it from other oncofetal proteins , which all seem to be produced by tumours . 
the axilla : not a no-go zone many surgeons , particularly in the uk , give inadequate primary treatment to patients with operable breast cancer . for spurious reasons they regard axillary clearance as unnecessarily extensive surgery and rely instead upon total mastectomy or tumour excision and node sampling , with or without postoperative radiotherapy . but it is now clear that relapse-free and overall survival can be improved by appropriate adjuvant therapy . thus inadequate exploration of the axilla is doubly unjustified . not only is there the obvious risk of failure to remove nodes that contain metastases -- so that some patients are deprived of cure by primary treatment -- but the extent of tumour spread will be inadequately assessed in many more patients , with the risk that they may not receive appropriate adjuvant treatment . 
nonhomologous chromatid exchange in hereditary and sporadic renal cell carcinomas . for the development of renal cell carcinomas , it has been suggested that a germ-line or somatic mutation occurs on one of the homologous chromosomes 3p , and subsequently the other 3p segment is lost . we have examined the karyotype and/or the allelic combination on chromosomes 3 and 5 by restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis in normal kidney and tumor samples from 28 renal cell carcinomas that developed in two patients with von hippel-lindau disease ; we then compared the results to those of sporadic tumors . an unbalanced translocation between chromosome 3p and 5q or other chromosomes was found to be the most common aberration . we developed a model of nonhomologous chromatid exchange involving breakpoint clusters at chromosomes 3p13 , 3p11 .2 , 5q22 , and 8q11 .2 . subsequent chromatid segregation may result in net loss of the 3p segment either ( i ) in one step or ( ii ) after a nondisjunctional loss of the derivative chromosome carrying the 3p segment . this general mechanism could also be implicated to explain genetic changes occurring in other types of solid tumors . 
prothymosin alpha antisense oligomers inhibit myeloma cell division . the function of prothymosin alpha has been investigated by using four different antisense oligodeoxyribonucleotides directed at selected regions of its mrna . in every case , when synchronized human myeloma cells were released from stationary phase by incubation in fresh medium containing antisense oligomers , cell division was prevented or inhibited ; sense oligomers and random antisense oligomers had no effect . a detailed analysis of synchronized cell populations indicated that sense-treated and untreated cells divided approximately 17 hr after growth initiation , whereas cells incubated with antisense oligomer 183 , a 16-mer targeted 5 bases downstream of the initiation codon , entered mitosis approximately one cell division late . the failure to divide correlated directly with a deficit in prothymosin alpha and with the continued presence of intact intracellular antisense oligomers over a period of at least 24 hr . because antisense oligomers had no effect either on the timing of the induction of prothymosin alpha mrna upon growth stimulation or on mrna levels seen throughout the cell cycle , we concluded that antisense dna caused specific hybrid arrest of translation . our data suggest that prothymosin alpha is required for cell division . however , there is no evidence that prothymosin alpha directly regulates mitosis . 
sequence and functional expression in xenopus oocytes of a human insulinoma and islet potassium channel . regulation of insulin secretion involves the coordinated control of ion channels in the beta-cell membrane . we have isolated and characterized cdna and genomic clones encoding a voltage-dependent k + channel isoform expressed in human islets and in a human insulinoma . this k + channel isoform , designated hpcn1 , with a deduced amino acid sequence of 613 residues ( mr = 67,097 ) , is related to the shaker family of drosophila k + channels . hpcn1 is homologous to two other human k + channel isoforms we have isolated , hpcn2 and hpcn3 , with 55 % and 65 % amino acid sequence identity , respectively . the electrophysiological characteristics of hpcn1 were determined after microinjection of synthetic rna into xenopus oocytes . two-microelectrode voltage-clamp recordings of oocytes injected with hpcn1 rna revealed a voltage-dependent outward k + current that inactivated slowly with time . outward currents were inhibited by 4-aminopyridine with a ki less than 0.10 mm and were relatively insensitive to tetraethylammonium ion or ba2 + . a delayed rectifier k + channel such as hpcn1 could restore the resting membrane potential of beta cells after depolarization and thereby contribute to the regulation of insulin secretion . 
dimerization of mammalian progesterone receptors occurs in the absence of dna and is related to the release of the 90-kda heat shock protein . in this study we have demonstrated that dimerization of mammalian progesterone receptors ( pr ) occurs in the absence of dna . a specific immune coisolation assay was performed on extracts of t-47d human breast cancer cells with a monoclonal antibody specific for the full-length b form of progesterone receptor ( pr-b ) . this resulted in coisolation of significant amounts of truncated form-a receptors ( pr-a ) , indicating the presence of stable pr-a . pr-b dimers in solution . a positive correlation was observed between the ability of different receptor forms to oligomerize in solution and their ability to bind to specific dna sequences . the ability to form stable pr-a . pr-b oligomers in the absence of dna was also found to correlate with release of 90-kda heat shock protein ( hsp90 ) from the unactivated pr complex . these results support the hypothesis that dimerization in the absence of dna is an important mechanism controlling receptor dna-binding function and that hsp90 release may be a key step regulating dimerization . this suggests that hsp90 may function to repress dna-binding activity indirectly by blocking receptor dimerization . 
pancreatic tumor pathogenesis reflects the causative genetic lesion . transgenic mice in which c-myc expression is targeted to pancreatic acinar cells develop mixed acinar/ductal pancreatic adenocarcinomas between 2 and 7 months of age . this contrasts with the effect on pancreas of the simian virus 40 tumor antigen or activated ras , which in adult mice causes lesions composed exclusively of acinar-like cells . furthermore , during an early stage of myc-induced pathology , transformed acinar-derived cells appear within islets , suggesting that islet hormones may influence the progression of these exocrine pancreatic tumors . these findings demonstrate that the initial oncogenic alteration can influence the pattern of subsequent tumor pathogenesis and , given that human exocrine pancreatic tumors are predominantly ductal adenocarcinomas , support the suggestion that transformed acinar cells may contribute to the genesis of this serious disease in man . 
nosocomial infections due to xanthomonas maltophilia ( pseudomonas maltophilia ) in patients with cancer . from december 1985 to may 1986 , xanthomonas maltophilia ( formerly known as pseudomonas maltophilia ) was isolated at an increased rate at our institution ; 52 isolates of x. maltophilia were obtained in cultures of clinical specimens from 38 patients during that time . the records of 35 of these patients form the basis of this study . twelve ( 71 % ) of the 17 infected and nine ( 50 % ) of the 18 colonized patients had received or were receiving antimicrobial therapy . eleven of 17 patients ( three of seven with septicemia , three of five with pneumonia , three with urinary tract infection , and two with wound infection ) responded to antimicrobial therapy . microbiologic studies of the potential environmental sources revealed growth of x. maltophilia in two water faucets and in one water sample from the medical intensive care unit . x. maltophilia is emerging as an important nosocomial pathogen in immunocompromised patients , especially those receiving broad-spectrum antimicrobial therapy . 
williams ' vulvovaginoplasty after supralevator total pelvic exenteration . seven patients had delayed williams ' vulvovaginoplasty after supralevator total pelvic exenteration . of the three patients who died of carcinoma of the cervix ( at 2 , 5 , and 15 months after vulvovaginoplasty ) , the first died before having a chance to attempt intercourse , but the other two had reported intercourse on at least two occasions after the reconstruction . one of the patients described the experiences as neither pleasant nor unpleasant but stated that her husband seemed satisfied . the other patient described the experience as satisfactory to both herself and her husband . the remaining four patients are alive with no evidence of recurrent disease at 28 , 42 , 56 , and 106 months after operation . two of these patients have reported entirely satisfactory sexual relations approximating pre-exenteration frequency , but the remaining two have not had sexual relations since surgery . both give the main reason for this as lack of opportunity . the williams ' vulvovaginoplasty appears to be a reasonable alternative for vaginal reconstruction in patients who will have and especially who have had exenteration . to improve results , other methods of vaginal reconstruction should continue to be evaluated . 
roentgenographic evaluation of the augmented breast . we performed a retrospective study to determine the sensitivity of mammography in detecting breast cancer arising in women with augmented breasts . of eight women with breast implants in whom breast cancer developed , six had mammograms before biopsy . only two of the six cancers were identified mammographically ( sensitivity = 33 % ) , and one of these two was seen only in retrospect . in both cases , the mammographic findings suggested a benign rather than a malignant process . all eight women had a palpable mass and early disease , and all are clinically disease-free at present . the sensitivity of mammography in detecting palpable cancers in a control group of women without implants was 92 % ( 118 of 128 ) . for tumors of 2 cm or less , the sensitivity was 88 % ( 58 of 66 ) . these results suggest that the sensitivity of mammography in detecting breast cancer is decreased when implants are present . further investigations are needed to determine the effects of prostheses on mammographic evaluations . 
flexible sigmoidoscopy as a screening procedure in rural patients . in this study of flexible sigmoidoscopy as a screening procedure for rural , impoverished patients , 16 % of asymptomatic patients who were screened by sigmoidoscopy and 23 % of patients with a positive test for fecal occult blood were found to have a polyp or carcinoma . flexible sigmoidoscopy appears to be an important part of the physical examination of patients older than 50 . it is a test that can readily be done by primary care physicians in a rural setting . 
pancreatic carcinoma in an elderly woman with an organic affective disorder and aids delusion . an elderly woman with symptoms of depression and an aids delusion was found also to have pancreatic carcinoma . i have discussed her case in conjunction with organic affective disorder , the evaluation of depression in the elderly , and suicide in the elderly . 
scoring system for the preoperative evaluation of metastatic spine tumor prognosis . an assessment system for the prognosis of metastatic spine tumors was evaluated for 64 cases who had undergone surgery . six parameters were employed in the assessment system : 1 ) the general condition , 2 ) the number of extraspinal bone metastases , 3 ) the number of metastases in the vertebral body , 4 ) metastases to the major internal organs ( lungs , liver , kidneys , and brain ) , 5 ) the primary site of the cancer , and 6 ) the severity of spinal cord palsy . each parameter ranged from 0 to 2 points . the total score obtained for each patient can be correlated with the prognosis , while being valuable in predicting it . however , the prognosis could not be predicted from a single parameter . in conclusion , an excisional operation should be performed on those cases who scored above 9 points , while a palliative operation is indicated for those who scored under 5 points . 
total sacrectomy and reconstruction for huge sacral tumors . the authors carried out successful total sacrectomy in three cases , two with giant cell tumors and one with a chordoma . the anterior and posterior approach is feasible for resecting huge sacral tumors en bloc , but it is important to reconstruct the continuity between the pelvic ring and spinal column using spinal instrumentation and sacral rods or ao plates . as total sacrectomy is a large-scale , time-consuming , and collaborative operation , two or three teams should be used in relays . both pelvic and spinal surgical techniques are required . post-operatively the patient can stand within 3 to 6 months and well-planned rehabilitation allows ambulation . in spite of the serious structural and neurologic damage caused , total sacrectomy can be rewarding procedure in terms of improved morbidity and mortality . 
transurethral resection versus needle biopsy prior to radical prostatectomy for stage c prostate cancer . influence on progression and survival . previous reports have claimed that transurethral resection of the prostate ( turp ) preceding definitive radiation therapy for patients with stage c prostate cancer promotes the risk of distant metastasis and increases the mortality rate . a total of 490 patients with pathologic stage c adenocarcinoma of the prostate treated by radical prostatectomy were studied . median time to follow-up was 4.6 years . comparison was made between patients who had turp within the six months preceding prostatectomy ( n = 54 ) and those who had needle biopsy ( n = 437 ) prior to operation . no significant differences were noted in local recurrence of disease , systemic progression of disease , disease-free interval , and overall and cause-specific survival , even after adjustment for clinical ( adjuvant treatment ) and pathologic prognostic variables . our data suggest that for patients with pathologic stage c prostate cancer treated by radical surgery , preoperative turp is not associated with unfavorable outcome . 
renal cell carcinoma vs. renal oncocytoma . report of a case with overlap features and review of the literature although the salient features of renal oncocytomas and renal cell carcinomas have been discussed in the recent literature , renal masses with features of both entities will present diagnostic difficulty , especially when the cells are diffusely eosinophilic on microscopic examination . a case of a firm , tan , rounded mass replacing the lower pole of the kidney is discussed . the final diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma , granular cell type , was made after multiple sections of the tumor were examined , and after electron microscopy was performed . a thorough search by light microscopy should be made for clear cell foci , necrosis , mitotic activity , and vascular or capsular invasion , features generally accepted as pathognomonic for renal cell carcinoma . cellular and especially nuclear pleomorphism is typically focal or mild in renal oncocytomas . true oncocytic tumors will be packed with mitochondria on electron microscopy ; however , granular renal cell carcinomas will contain mitochondria as well as other cellular organelles , lipid , and glycogen . electron microscopy should be performed on tumors suspected of being oncocytomas because eosinophilia on hematoxylin and eosin stain , as demonstrated by this case , is not a predictable measure of mitochondria content . immunoperoxidase staining for vimentin in oncocytomas has recently been shown to be negative , and may offer a method of ruling out oncocytoma in vimentin-positive tumors , pending further studies . 
perinatal transmission of human papillomavirus . human papillomavirus infection is probably the most prevalent sexually transmitted disease in the united states . in adults , it is associated with condylomata acuminata and with neoplastic changes ranging from dysplasia to carcinoma . infected mothers may transmit human papillomavirus during the perinatal period ; affected children face prolonged , difficult treatment for respiratory papillomatosis . prevention of infection remains the best approach , since diagnostic and therapeutic methods are suboptimal . 
hepatobiliary manifestations of the acquired immune deficiency syndrome . patients with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) frequently develop hepatic dysfunction . although hepatic injury may indirectly result from malnutrition , hypotension , administered medications , sepsis , or other conditions , the hepatic injury is frequently due to opportunistic hepatic infection , directly related to aids . infection with mycobacterium avium intracellulare typically occurs in patients with advanced immunocompromise and with systemic symptoms due to widely disseminated infection . in contrast , hepatic tuberculosis often occurs with less advanced immunocompromise . cytomegaloviral infection may produce a hepatitis . cytomegaloviral and cryptosporidial infections have been implicated as causes of acalculous cholecystitis and of a secondary sclerosing cholangitis . about 10-20 % of patients with aids have chronic hepatitis b infection . these patients tend to develop minimal hepatic inflammation and necrosis . the clinical findings in patients with hepatic cryptococcal infection are usually due to concomitant extrahepatic infection . hepatic histoplasmosis usually develops as part of a widely disseminated infection with systemic symptoms . hepatic involvement by kaposi 's sarcoma is rarely documented ante mortem because an unguided liver biopsy is an insensitive diagnostic procedure . patients with non-hodgkin 's lymphoma of the liver typically have lymphadenopathy , hepatomegaly , and systemic symptoms . as a pragmatic approach , patients with liver dysfunction and hiv-related disease should have a sonographic or computerized tomographic examination of the liver . patients with dilated bile ducts should undergo endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography because opportunistic infection may produce biliary obstruction . patients with a focal hepatic lesion should be considered for a guided liver biopsy . patients with a significantly elevated serum alkaline phosphatase level should be considered for a percutaneous liver biopsy . when performed for these indications , liver biopsy will demonstrate a significant disease involving the liver in about 50 % of patients with aids and in about 25 % of patients who are hiv seropositive but who are not known to have aids . the clinical impact of a diagnostic biopsy is blunted by a lack of efficacious therapy for many opportunistic infections . 
clinical evaluation of plasma abnormal prothrombin ( des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin ) in hepatobiliary malignancies and other diseases . des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin ( dcp ) , a protein induced by vitamin k absence or antagonist-ii ( pivka-ii ) was measured in the plasma of patients with primary hepatocellular carcinoma and those with various other hepatobiliary and pancreatic diseases . dcp levels were determined by enzyme immunoassay ( e-1023 ) , using an anti-dcp monoclonal antibody . forty-two of the 91 patients ( 46.2 % ) with hepatocellular carcinoma had abnormally elevated levels of dcp , whereas only one of the 24 patients with hepatic cirrhosis showed a slight increase . an increase was also observed in some patients with obstructive jaundice . there was no correlation between plasma levels of dcp and those of serum alpha-fetoprotein ( afp ) . in most patients with hepatocellular carcinoma , plasma dcp levels normalized after curative surgical resection . plasma dcp levels were not related to the plasma concentration of vitamin k in the patients with hepatocellular carcinoma . plasma dcp determination may be useful in the diagnosis and postoperative monitoring of the response of hepatocellular carcinoma . 
spontaneous rupture of hepatocellular carcinoma : a review of 172 japanese cases . the spontaneous rupture of a primary hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) accounts for 10 % mortality of hcc patients in japan . because this problem occurs much less frequently in western countries , it is often difficult for clinicians practicing in such countries to decide upon the best course of action during the crisis accompanying the spontaneous rupture of a hcc . in an effort to advance the general knowledge of this disease and clarify a selection for its treatment , we review 172 cases of spontaneous rupture of a hcc reported in the japanese literature . the chief complaint of the patients was sudden epigastralgia or right hypochondriac pain . abdominal paracentesis was positive in 86 % of the patients . liver failure was the cause of death in 42 % of the patients . therefore , it is important to evaluate liver reserve quickly . in addition , emergency hemostatic procedures must be implemented to avoid hemorrhagic shock . although two-stage hepatectomy was performed in only 12 % of the cases , these had the highest survival rates . consequently , this is the procedure of choice for the treatment of spontaneous rupture of a hcc . 
endoscopic placement of a foley catheter across a stricture and rectovaginal fistula to perform a barium enema . evaluation of enteric fistulas is often best performed with barium contrast studies . clinical situations that preclude the satisfactory installation of barium decrease the yield of the study . a case is presented of a 59-yr-old female with stage iii-b cervical carcinoma and a known rectovaginal fistula with an adjacent sigmoid colon stricture . an additional more proximal , enteric fistula was suspected . definitive preoperative knowledge of the existence or absence of this fistula would have shortened the duration of a planned palliative intervention . the rectovaginal fistula and stricture precluded adequate barium and air installation for contrast study . colonoscopy was unsuccessful . we have developed a combined technique in which the endoscopic placement of a semirigid guidewire allowed placement of a foley catheter across the fistula and stricture . successful barium study was performed . intraoperative time and hospital stay were shortened . 
epstein-barr virus transformation of b lymphocytes from iga nephropathy patients and first-degree relatives results in increased immunoglobulin synthesis not restricted to iga . in order to study b-cell activation patterns independent of t-cell regulation in patients with iga nephropathy ( igan ) , peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 67 patients with igan , 15 first-degree relatives of patients with familial disease , and 13 normal controls were transformed with epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) . culture supernatants of these transformed cells were assayed for levels of igg , iga , and igm , and results obtained on the three populations were compared . ebv-transformed cells of igan patients , as well as the population of first-degree relatives , secreted significantly elevated levels of all three isotypes as compared with the normal controls . however , in comparing ratios of secreted isotypes , it was determined that more iga relative to igg and igm was synthesized by cells of these two populations as compared with the normal controls . our results imply that ( 1 ) the population of b cells susceptible to ebv activation is increased in igan patients ; ( 2 ) this population of " activatable " b lymphocytes is polyclonal and not restricted to the iga class ; and ( 3 ) even though there may be a primary b-cell abnormality in igan , an additional defect ( s ) is probably operative in the pathogenesis , since cells of clinically unaffected relatives behaved in a pattern similar to that of patients . 
infiltration of the lower respiratory tract by helper/inducer t lymphocytes in htlv-1-associated adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma . the human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 ( htlv-1 ) is the causative agent of adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma ( atll ) , a disorder in which peripheral blood and multiple organs are infiltrated by malignantly transformed t lymphocytes . we investigated the nature of pulmonary disease in a patient with serologic evidence of htlv-1 infection . in this case , endobronchial biopsy specimens showed infiltration of the bronchial mucosa by pleomorphic cells exhibiting a high degree of nuclear irregularity . these cells were morphologically identical in appearance to malignant cells found in peripheral blood and infiltrating the dermis , expressed the okt4/leu3 phenotype and the receptor for interleukin 2 , and , by analogy to gene rearrangement studies on leukemic blood cells , were monoclonal in origin . however , in situ hybridization of endobronchial biopsy specimens with full-length htlv-1 probes failed to detect retroviral rna or proviral dna . these studies indicate that t lymphocytic involvement of the lower respiratory tract in htlv-1-associated atll is characterized by expression of a malignant phenotype despite the inability to document actual cellular infection with this retrovirus by a molecular hybridization technique . 
aggressive primary gastrointestinal lymphomas : review of 91 patients treated with the lnh-84 regimen . a study of the groupe d'etude des lymphomes agressifs . purpose : patients with aggressive primary gastrointestinal lymphoma undergoing the lnh-84 chemotherapy regimen were analyzed to determine the efficacy of intensive combination chemotherapy , the role of surgical debulking in patients treated with combination chemotherapy , and the toxicity associated with each of these modalities . patients and methods : ninety-one patients with primary gastrointestinal lymphoma who participated in the prospective multicenter lnh-84 combination chemotherapy trial ( total number of patients in trial , 737 ) were analyzed . these 91 patients included 69 ( 76 % ) with diffuse large cell , nine ( 10 % ) with diffuse mixed , and seven ( 8 % ) with small noncleaved cell lymphoma . two patients ( 2 % ) had stage ie , 54 patients ( 59 % ) stage iie , and 35 patients ( 38 % ) stage iv disease ; all patients with stage ie , 22 with stage iie , and 18 with stage iv disease had bulky ( greater than or equal to 10 cm ) tumors . specific sites of gastrointestinal involvement included stomach ( 47 % ) , small bowel ( 38 % ) , ileocecum ( 14 % ) , colon ( 11 % ) , and rectum ( 7 % ) . although surgical resection was attempted in 71 patients ( 78 % ) , only 28 ( 31 % ) had complete tumor excision . all patients received three or four cycles of acvb ( defined in text ) induction therapy followed by sequential consolidation as previously described . results : responses to treatment in the 91 patients included 71 ( 78 % ) complete remissions , six ( 7 % ) partial remissions , five ( 5 % ) nonresponses , and nine ( 10 % ) deaths . with a median follow-up of 3 years , 10 patients ( 14 % ) have had relapses ; predicted 4-year disease-free survival of complete responders is 85 % and predicted 4-year survival of the entire group is 62 % . in patients with stage ie or iie disease , the complete response , survival , and disease-free survival rates were similar in those who underwent complete surgical resection or incomplete or no surgical resection prior to the administration of combination chemotherapy . prognostic factors predicting for survival in the 91 patients with primary gastrointestinal lymphoma were similar to those in the 646 other patients treated with the lnh-84 regimen . conclusions : patients with aggressive gastrointestinal lymphoma treated with intensive chemotherapy have outcomes and prognostic factors comparable to those of patients with similar-stage aggressive lymphoma without primary gastrointestinal involvement . surgical resection prior to the administration of combination chemotherapy did not influence the complete response rate , survival rate , or disease-free survival rate in this small group of patients . 
overexpression of her-2 / neu in endometrial cancer is associated with advanced stage disease . prior studies have shown that overexpression of her-2 / neu occurs in one third of breast and ovarian cancers and that overexpression is associated with poor prognosis . we used a monoclonal antibody to assess immunohistochemically the level of her-2 / neu expression in normal and malignant endometrium . in 24 normal endometrial samples light to moderate ( 1 + to 2 + ) staining for her-2 / neu was seen in the glands , and there was no variation in intensity of staining during the menstrual cycle . among 95 endometrial adenocarcinomas , nine ( 9 % ) were found to have heavier staining for her-2 / neu than was seen in normal endometrium ( 3 + ) . high expression of her-2 / neu was found in 27 % of patients with metastatic disease compared with 4 % of patients with disease confined to the uterus ( p less than 0.005 ) . high her-2 / neu expression also was associated with absence of estrogen receptor ( p less than 0.005 ) and with increased mortality from cancer . further studies are needed to determine the significance of her-2 / neu overexpression in endometrial cancer . 
a risk-benefit analysis of elective bilateral oophorectomy : effect of changes in compliance with estrogen therapy on outcome . a bilateral oophorectomy at the time of elective hysterectomy is often performed to prevent ovarian cancer . the assumption that endogenous estrogen can be easily replaced with supplemental medication fosters the decision for routine oophorectomy . published reports on the use of postmenopausal estrogen indicate that compliance is less than perfect . this fact could affect the overall outcome . decision analysis techniques with markov cohort modeling were used to evaluate the policy of elective bilateral oophorectomy . results from studies judged methodologically sound were combined to determine values representing the influence of estrogen on coronary heart disease , breast cancer , and osteoporotic fracture . the decision tree also explicitly incorporated patient compliance . when compliance with estrogen therapy is assumed to be perfect , oophorectomy yields longer life expectancy than retaining the ovaries . when actual drug-taking behavior is considered , retaining the ovaries results in longer survival . this analysis highlights the importance of including the effects of patient compliance with treatment recommendations when the impact of a health policy decision such as prophylactic surgery is assessed . 
human immunodeficiency virus-induced immunosuppression : a risk factor for human papillomavirus infection . in a group of 92 women with genital condylomata , 15 ( 16.3 % ) human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients were found , whereas no case was detected in a control group of 100 women . the relative risk was greater than 19.28 . human immunodeficiency-positive status was associated with other parameters : lower age and parity , major frequency of induced abortions , and sexually transmitted diseases . thus although human immunodeficiency-positive status seems to be a true risk factor in relation to the altered immunologic state , an indirect association can not be discarded . such patients should be screened closely for human papillomavirus infection and cervical cancer . among human immunodeficiency-positive women , a more resistant behavior of human papillomavirus-associated lesions was detected ( recurrence-persistence of 41.7 % versus 12 % ) , a fact that might also be in relation to the immunodepressed status . 
the diagnosis of ovarian cancer by pathologists : how often do diagnoses by contributing pathologists agree with a panel of gynecologic pathologists ? the cancer and steroid hormone study , a multicenter , population-based , case-control study of ovarian , breast , and endometrial cancer in women 20 to 54 years of age , permitted the diagnoses of contributing pathologists to be compared with those of a panel of three gynecologic pathologists . a diagnosis of ovarian cancer was made by contributing pathologists on 477 subjects . agreement between the two groups of pathologists was 97 % for primary epithelial ovarian cancer and 89 % for primary nonepithelial ovarian malignancies . agreement on diagnosis of major cellular subtypes of ovarian malignancy ranged between 73 % for endometrioid cancer and 100 % for clear cell carcinomas . we conclude that the diagnosis of pathologic features of primary ovarian cancer is highly predictable . nonetheless , diagnosis by histologic type varies sufficiently that a review process should be considered for clinical or investigative decisions involving specific histologic diagnoses of ovarian cancer . 
dissection of the cardinal ligament in radical hysterectomy for cervical cancer with emphasis on the lateral ligament . surgical experience with carcinomas of the uterus and rectum has provided new insights into the surgical anatomy of a lamina , which separates the paravesical space from the pararectal space . it has been proved that each of the lamina consists of the cardinal and lateral ligaments and pelvic splanchnic nerves , descending in the following order . the cardinal and lateral ligaments , as a connective stalk , insert into the lateral walls of the uterus and rectum extending from the inner aspect of the pelvic wall . clarification of this structural relationship led to the development of a new procedure for the dissection of the cardinal ligament in radical hysterectomy , while still preserving the lateral ligament . this facilitated systematic dissection of the cardinal and uterosacral ligaments with posterior manipulation , leading to a reduction in blood loss and to prevention of brisk bleeding from the venous plexuses . 
angiosarcoma of the uterus : a case report . we are reporting a case of angiosarcoma of the uterus in which the diagnosis was confirmed ultrastructurally by demonstration of weibel-palade bodies in the tumor cells . only 10 cases of this entity have been previously documented in the literature . 
the elusive colonic malignancy . a need for definitive preoperative localization . colonoscopy with biopsy is the standard of practice for the diagnosis of colonic malignancies . unfortunately , the inability of endoscopy to obtain precise distance measurements from the anal verge can make localization of lesions at operation difficult . for this reason , preoperative barium enema or intraoperative colonoscopy have been advocated to further pinpoint the sites of those lesions not thought to be easily located at operation . five patients are presented in whom malignant lesions of the colon were diagnosed and verified histologically , but were later undetectable at operation or subsequent colonoscopic examinations . four of these patients underwent laparotomy and three received colon resections . none of these patients ' tumors were identified during intraoperative colonoscopy , in the resected bowel on pathologic examination , or on follow-up colonoscopy . a fifth patient is presented who spontaneously passed a polyp containing invasive adenocarcinoma , but multiple colonoscopic examinations have failed to identify the site of the lesion . to date , none of these tumors have recurred with periods of follow-up ranging from 6 months to 2 years . these patients demonstrate a poorly documented and little understood aspect of the behavior of colonic malignancies , i.e. , the ability to spontaneously regress or slough from the bowel wall . based on these instances , localization of potentially malignant colon lesions is recommended with submucosal dye injections at initial endoscopy or with colonoscopy in the operating room immediately prior to operation . 
carotid artery disease in patients with head and neck carcinoma . irradiation has been shown experimentally to cause accelerated development of atherosclerosis in exposed large arteries . however , occurrence of such an entity in carotid arteries of patients after treatment for head and neck carcinoma is unknown . therefore , we reviewed 179 patient charts who had undergone head and neck operations with or without irradiation between 1979-1987 . of these 179 patients , 107 ( 59.8 % ) were dead at time of follow-up . cause of death was unknown in 42 ( 40 % ) patients ; in the remainder included : respiratory arrest -- 33 ; carcinoma-related -- 18 ; cardiac -- 6 ; pneumonia -- 7 ; and trauma -- 1 . average interval from treatment to death was 23.5 months . of the 72 patients known to be alive , follow-up was obtained in 52 patients . their average age was 64.9 years . risk factors for atherosclerosis included : male gender -- 43 ; smoking -- 50 ; hypertension -- 9 ; diabetes -- 4 ; coronary artery disease -- 12 ; and peripheral vascular disease -- 4 . seventy-five per cent of these patients received postoperative irradiation . average follow-up was 64.5 months . duplex scans were performed on 34 patients . three patients had common or internal carotid stenoses greater than 75 per cent . all of these patients had received irradiation and none of them were symptomatic . seven patients had carotid stenoses between 50 to 75 per cent ; five of these had received irradiation . of these five patients , one had a stroke 60 months postoperatively , and one had a tia 36 months postoperatively . the remaining 58 patients ( of which 48 had irradiation ) had carotid stenoses less than 50 per cent and none were symptomatic . 
the pathology of nonpalpable breast cancer . a principal goal of mammographic screening is the early detection of breast cancer . we reviewed records of 125 women who were referred because of nonpalpable , suspicious abnormalities on mammogram , which subsequently proved to be cancer , requiring mammographic localization biopsy and subsequent surgery for therapy . we found that 72 ( 57.6 % ) had invasive tumors , 15 ( 12 % ) showed evidence of microinvasion and 38 ( 30.4 % ) were noninvasive . a total of 115 patients had lymphadenectomy as part of their definitive surgery . nine ( 12.7 % ) of the patients with infiltrating tumors had between one and 10 malignant nodes on histologic section . none of the patients with noninvasive or microinvasive tumors were found to have involved nodes . the mammographic abnormalities which led to biopsy in our series were : calcifications in 74 ( 59.2 % ) patients , mass lesions in 39 ( 31.2 % ) , mass lesions with calcifications in 11 ( 8.8 % ) , and asymmetry in one ( 0.8 % ) . of the nine patients with nodal metastases , seven ( 77.8 % ) had a mass with or without calcifications as the indication for biopsy . increasing tumor size was found to correlate with invasive tumors on histopathologic examination and the incidence of lymph node metastases . thirty-seven ( 54.4 % ) of the patients with infiltrating tumors had a tumor size greater than 1 cm . further , seven ( 77.8 % ) of the nine lymph node positive patients had tumors between 1 and 3 cm in size . of note , however , is that two ( 22.2 % ) patients with microscopic tumors had involved nodes . the 4-year actuarial survival in patients with infiltrating tumors was 85.2 per cent , while that for patients with noninvasive or microinvasive tumors was 100 per cent ( median follow-up of 20 months ) . 
intravenous administration of recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor causes a cutaneous eruption the intravenous administration of recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor to three patients with leukemia who were receiving marrow aplasia-inducing chemotherapy resulted in the development of wide-spread erythematous macules and papules . the course of the eruption paralleled the time of infusion of the granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor . skin biopsy specimens taken from two of the eruptions displayed characteristic changes consisting of a variable mixture of granulocytes and lymphocytes , increased number and size of dermal macrophages , mild to moderate epidermal exocytosis , intercellular edema , and rare dyskeratotic keratinocytes . immunophenotypic analysis of one specimen was notable for keratinocyte intercellular adhesion molecule-1 expression . administration of the recombinant human cytokine in pharmacologic doses is postulated to induce changes in the immunologic status of the skin , resulting in the expression of a cutaneous eruption . 
intraepithelial anchoring fibril components . cultured human keratinocytes and cultured human cervical carcinoma cells ( me-180 ) contained intracellular pools of antigens that reacted with the anchoring fibril antibodies af1 and af2 . in keratinocytes , these antigens formed a basement membrane-like structure near the apical portions of the cells . using flow cytometric techniques , pretreatment of the me-180 cells with acetone revealed large intracellular pools of antigen . the intracellular epitope was calcium sensitive . some forms of recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa have retention of intracellular portions of the anchoring fibril suggesting a relation of the intracellular anchoring fibril antigens to that disease . 
cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma . we report the cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma , using a retrospective review of 115 patients ' records obtained from tumor registry files . five patients were found to have biopsy-proved extramedullary plasmacytomas without extension from an underlying bony focus . twelve patients had ecchymoses without thrombocytopenia ; two of them had biopsy-proved amyloidosis . one patient presented with pyoderma gangrenosum and was subsequently diagnosed with multiple myeloma . the last patient initially presented with what clinically appeared to be leukocytoclastic vasculitis , and , in the course of a standard workup , he was diagnosed with multiple myeloma . these findings are discussed with regard to the current literature on the cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma . 
familial multiple desmoplastic trichoepitheliomas . a kindred with familial multiple desmoplastic trichoepitheliomas is described . desmoplastic trichoepitheliomas should be added to the group of lesions that indicate an inherited pattern when they occur as multiple primary tumors . the implications for nosologic status and treatment of desmoplastic trichoepitheliomas are considered . 
in vivo ultraviolet irradiation of human skin results in profound perturbation of the immune system . relevance to ultraviolet-induced skin cancer [ published erratum appears in arch dermatol 1991 sep ; 127 ( 9 ) :1368 ] ultraviolet exposure of human skin deletes the function of antigen-presenting langerhans cells normally resident within the epidermis . langerhans cells are capable of activating t-lymphocytes by presenting antigens ( such as nickel or tumor antigens ) to t-lymphocytes . such activated t-lymphocytes may be involved in the development of contact dermatitis and the immune surveillance of immunogenic skin cancers . deletion of the function of langerhans cells does not result in abrogated epidermal antigen presentation since ultraviolet irradiation simultaneously induces the appearance of another epidermal antigen-presenting cell population that is distinct from the langerhans cell population and seems to induce suppression of the immune response . suppression of the immune response following ultraviolet irradiation in murine models is critical for growth of immunogenic ultraviolet-induced skin neoplasm . thus , ultraviolet irradiation of human skin may facilitate the growth of human neoplasms , and the spreading of skin-associated infections due to induction of suppressor t cells . 
acquired von willebrand 's syndrome . therapeutic and diagnostic implications . acquired von willebrand 's syndrome is a newly recognized bleeding diathesis thought to be caused by autoantibodies to the von willebrand factor . acquired von willebrand 's syndrome has been reported in association with lymphoproliferative disorders and benign monoclonal gammopathies . clinical features and laboratory abnormalities of this disease are similar to congenital von willebrand 's disease , but the optimal treatment may differ . we describe a 75-year-old man with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and recurrent epistaxis and also discuss the pathogenesis , diagnosis , and treatment of both the congenital and acquired disorders . 
cervical rotation flaps for midface resurfacing . the midface has long served as a focus for creativity in surgical reconstruction . full-thickness skin grafts , split-thickness grafts , and distal flaps have long been used to attempt to reduplicate existing anatomy in this area . recent reconstruction efforts have focused on the creative use of microvascular free flaps for this purpose . this article reports on the use of extensively developed regional rotation flaps as an excellent reconstructive modality for use in this area of the face . the details of surgical incisional planning are given . the nuances of surgical creation of these flaps and their rotation and suspension into place are given . the cases we have done using this technique for the past 3 years are reviewed . our present indications for use of these flaps and their limitations are given . 
drug response of head and neck tumors in native-state histoculture . we describe a chemosensitivity testing of head and neck tumors , in which a native-state histoculture , ie , a three-dimensional culture system that maintains important in vivo properties , including tissue architecture , was used . fifteen specimens of head and neck tumors were evaluated for sensitivity to the following drugs : cisplatin ( ddp ) at concentrations of 1.5 , 15 , and 37.5 micrograms/ml ; fluorouracil at concentrations of 4.0 , 40 , and 100 micrograms/ml ; and combinations of cisplatin and fluorouracil in corresponding doses . growth and measurement of drug responses were successfully completed in 10 specimens ( five others were contaminated , four of them prior to instituting rigorous antibiotic washes ) . the results indicated cisplatin sensitivity in five of 10 patients ; fluorouracil sensitivity in four of 10 patients ; and fluorouracil-cisplatin sensitivity in seven of eight patients . our preliminary results indicate that the native-state histoculture technique is feasible to test chemosensitivity of head and neck tumors . 
ultrasonic morphology of the uterus and ovaries after treatment of invasive mole and gestational choriocarcinoma . ultrasound imaging of the uterus and ovaries was performed on 41 patients after completion of apparently successful cytotoxic chemotherapy for invasive mole and choriocarcinoma . uterine volume was calculated and the echopattern of the uterus and ovaries assessed . forty-nine per cent of subjects had an abnormal uterine appearance and 20 % had ovarian theca-lutein cysts . two patients relapsed on follow-up but no predictive ultrasonic features could be established on uterine or ovarian morphology after chemotherapy . 
progress and challenges in psychosocial and behavioral research in cancer in the twentieth century . research in the psychosocial and behavioral aspects of cancer has shown steady growth since the 1950s , and its course of development has paralleled the history of medical techniques in treating cancer . table 1 outlines this parallel evolution from the 1850s to the 1960s . the roles of the american cancer society and the national cancer institute ( nci ) in spearheading and nurturing research in this area are documented . interest in psychooncologic questions can be traced back for centuries to the search for etiologic factors and psychologic variables that would explain individual vulnerability to cancer . the first psychologic studies of cancer patients were reported in 1951 and 1952 from the massachusetts general hospital and memorial sloan-kettering cancer center , respectively . the 1970s saw new interest in psychosocial and behavioral research with many issues being addressed for the first time : better care of the terminally ill through more humanistic approaches including better means of pain control ; ethical concerns related to patient rights and their status as subjects in experimental protocols ; trying to measure quality of life for cancer patients on protocols ; seeing the need for multidisciplinary collaborative groups to make up for the absence of formal training in this area ; and the need to design valid , accurate measuring scales specific to the symptomology of patients with cancer . table 4 outlines how the 1980s gave increasing recognition and support to the psychosocial dimensions of cancer . this period produced a series of key conferences that examined a broad research and education perspective and produced recommendations that remain a benchmark in regard to instrumentation , conceptual models , pitfalls of psychosocial research , training , and education , and the organization of research efforts . new precision has been added to the field in the past 6 years : studies measuring concurrent psychologic , endocrine , and immune function ; use of statistical modeling to incorporate quality of life data as a correction factor in survival data ( twist and qaly ) ; and broadened definitions of medical outcome to include functional status , thus allowing advances in psychiatric measurements to help answer questions in cancer . the challenges for the 1990s are identified in a summary in table 9 . especially noteworthy is the observation that the comprehensive research needed today can not be carried out by any one discipline alone . new approaches call for areas of the social sciences formerly inactive in cancer research ( e.g. , anthropology ) to contribute the tools and expertise required to address the problems . 
advances in data assessment . application to the etiology of nausea reported during chemotherapy , concerns about significance testing , and opportunities in clinical trials . typical inferential statistical procedures , such as the t-test and analysis of variance , compare differences in mean values of variables . this approach can sometimes obscure rather than illuminate research data . here we present and discuss alternative data analytic techniques . potential advantages of box plots over conventional t-tests for understanding data are shown by comparing the area under high and low frequencies from spectral curves of autonomic changes following chemotherapy treatment . typical t-tests provide information regarding statistical significance in terms of the differences in group means ; box plots and related exploratory techniques provide information regarding the characteristics of the distributions within the groups as well as examination of potential outliers . multivariate analysis of variance ( manova ) and other multivariate techniques are commonly used to deal with potentially complex data sets with multiple outcome measures . the potential advantages of visual clustering techniques such as star plots , chernoff faces , and andrew 's function plots are demonstrated by examining changes in facial pallor caused by chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting . typical manova approaches can identify potential differences in mean values between groups ; visual clustering approaches do this by graphically presenting complex interrelationships for individual cases . this approach enhances the visual interpretation of potential interactions that would be obscured by simply focusing on overall mean values . preliminary data from a meta-analysis on the effect of metoclopramide on chemotherapy-induced vomiting demonstrates the potential uses and advantages of this summary technique over simple tabular summaries . we found significant relationships between the effect size of the drug and variables such as the year of study publication and whether the publication was an article or an abstract . while none of these techniques are meant to replace traditional inferential statistics , they offer advantages in terms of data exploration and understanding relationships within data sets that are not clearly addressed by other methods . they are potentially valuable alternatives worthy of exploration . finally , we discuss issues of interim analyses and multiple endpoint assessment for clinical trials . 
social environment and social support . research on the relevance of social support to cancer has been plentiful since the first american cancer society workshop on methodological issues in behavioral and psychosocial science . nonetheless , critical shortcomings continue to characterize the attempt empirically to establish such things as the extent to which social support predicts adjustment to cancer diagnosis and treatment . prominent among these is the failure to adequately address large elements of the social structure , such as social class and urbanization , and to investigate how they shape the well being of persons with or at risk for cancer and their caregivers . we recommend that more psychosocial research on the link between social support and cancer be conducted within populations beset by poverty and without adequate access to health care . funding is needed for the training and maintenance of multidisciplinary and multicultural teams of researchers working within community-based organizations and hospitals serving the underserved . 
social support and the cancer patient . implications for future research and clinical care . this review assesses past progress , current practices , and future needs in research and clinical practice involving the social support needs of cancer patients . a review is given of the various conceptualizations of the social support/stress paradigm and of the state of the art of measuring social support . then the current work in the field of social support and cancer is considered and an argument is made for the use of social support measures , which are relevant to the experiences of the cancer patient . potential adaptations of an existing instrument ( the duke-unc functional social support scale ) are demonstrated , and a taxonomy of stages of cancer that would require additional types of social support measures and interventions is outlined . interventions are discussed in terms of the traditional support groups as well as interventions by the oncologist and primary care physician . an argument is made for the inclusion of quality of life or functional measures as outcomes in clinical trials and the care of the cancer patient . finally , the need to address the existential , philosophic , or religious issues surrounding cancer and its treatment is discussed . 
needs and recommendations for behavior research in the prevention and early detection of cancer . because life-style patterns affect many cancer risks , research on health-risk behavior and behavior change is critical to cancer prevention . this report recommends priorities for the next decade of psychosocial research on cancer prevention and detection . the leading priority for future research is to fill gaps in basic knowledge left by the rush to intervention and outcome studies . such research must be theoretically driven and should aim to develop broad principles applicable to diverse health behaviors . studies that include relevant process data on various stages of behavior change are considered more desirable than simple outcome studies . epidemiologic investigations should be expanded to include measures of relevant behaviors , so that their impact on clinical outcomes might be established . more research is needed on lay perception of health risks and on individual and health-system barriers to effective cancer prevention and detection . studies that address the needs of minority and underprivileged populations are crucial . funding agencies ' narrow categorical mandates impede interdisciplinary research on multiple risk factors and their interactions ; these boundaries must be relaxed to promote such approaches . funding agencies should also consider basic research as a long-term investment towards the development of effective interventions . 
epidemiologic perspectives on life-style modification and health promotion in cancer research . the clinical , patient-oriented focus of medicine and psychology is contrasted with the epidemiologic ( public health ) approach in assessing the role of life-style factors and health promotion in cancer research . the unifying host-agent-environment epidemiologic paradigm is applied to contemporary cancer prevention issues , principally smoking cessation and dietary modification , to demonstrate differences in inferences , prevention strategies , and research opportunities . an integration of population-based approaches with the dynamics of patient behavior and risks for cancer is especially salient when considering the role of psychosocial stress and personal and social resources . the social epidemiologic perspective , the study of the psychosocial determinants of physical health status , offers one approach for resolving the outlined differences in perspectives and is particularly relevant for understanding the etiology of life-style behaviors and how they might be altered . 
physiologic and psychobehavioral research in oncology . a major thrust in research in psychosocial oncology is the study of the interaction of psychologic and physiologic variables . this discussion reviews the current status and future directions of such research . areas addressed include pain , nausea and vomiting with chemotherapy , sexuality , effects of cancer on psychologic and neuropsychologic function , impact of psychologic factors on cancer and its treatment , and psychoneuroimmunology . in addition , specific recommendations for strategies to facilitate research in these areas of psychosocial oncology are proposed . 
psychoneuroimmunology . implications for oncology ? accumulating evidence indicates that the central nervous system ( cns ) may regulate the activity of the immune system . although the overall significance of the immune system in cancer remains controversial , psychosocial influences on immune function could potentially provide a mechanism to account for some of the reports of an association between psychosocial factors and cancer prognosis . 
scientific inquiry in childhood cancer psychosocial research . theoretical , conceptual , and methodologic issues in the investigation and behavioral treatment of procedure-related distress . this paper discusses the current status of scientific inquiry in childhood cancer psychosocial research . the investigation and behavioral treatment of procedure-related distress serves as a model for illustrating and outlining some of the theoretical , conceptual , and methodologic issues and problems that exist in the area of childhood cancer psychosocial research . specifically , issues related to the process of scientific inquiry , theoretical/conceptual modeling , measurement and assessment , and behavioral treatment strategies are discussed . examples of how these issues have been addressed in our investigations of procedure-related distress are presented and recommendations for facilitating growth and development in the field of childhood cancer psychosocial research are offered . 
quality of life research in oncology . past achievements and future priorities . the status of quality of life research in oncology is assessed , and priorities for future research with regard to conceptual and theoretical developments , focus and content of research , research designs and practical strategies for research implementation , and transferring information to clinical practice and medical policy decision-making are identified . there is general agreement that quality of life is a subjective and multidimensional construct , yet comprehensive theoretical models have not been developed and applied fully . we recommend that future research be based on conceptual models that explicate the interrelationships among quality of life domains throughout the stages of cancer care . these models , and the longitudinal research that follows from them , should attend specifically to cross-class and cross-cultural issues to avoid overgeneralization from theory and research that are based largely on the views of the majority culture . we encourage the inclusion of this theory-based quality of life assessment as a standard component of clinical trials . success in this endeavor will require additional standardization of quality of life measures for use across a range of cancer patient populations , including the development of age-specific norms and instruments designed to assess the entire family system . 
methodologic issues in assessing the quality of life of cancer patients . although quality of life assessments have been employed successfully in descriptive and evaluative studies in oncology , their use in cancer clinical trials has , to date , been limited . a range of issues have impeded the conduct of clinical trial-based quality of life investigations . these include : the absence of theoretical models to guide the development of quality of life measures ; over-reliance on ad hoc approaches to quality of life assessment ; and insufficient attention to the practical constraints operating in clinical research settings . of primary importance is the need to develop multidimensional quality of life instruments that are brief and psychometrically robust . it is suggested that future work on instrument development focus on refining currently available generic or cancer-specific measures , and on developing new diagnostic-specific questionnaire modules . this psychometric work should be guided by appropriate theoretical models of the relationship among health-related quality of life domains . although it is widely accepted that the patient represents the most appropriate source of quality of life data , it is suggested that efforts also be directed toward improving the validity and reliability of physician-generated assessments of patients ' performance status and of treatment toxicities , and toward determining the feasibility of employing family members as proxy raters of the psychologic and social health status of patients who are unwilling or unable to provide such information . additional attention should be paid to the many logistical problems that arise in clinical trial-based quality of life investigations . in particular , research designs and data collection procedures should be selected that minimize patient , medical staff , and institutional burden . 
quality-of-life-adjusted survival for comparing cancer treatments . a commentary on twist and q-twist . in chronic disease situations where treatment comparisons favor no particular therapy , or where definitive outcome requires a considerable follow-up period , it is useful to have additional and perhaps intermediate endpoints of relevant clinical significance to compare treatments . one such endpoint is time without symptoms and toxicity ( twist ) which , together with q-twist , attempts to address the quality of life of patients receiving the competing regimens . this paper provides a commentary on these techniques with an emphasis on the problems inherent in implementing q-twist , a measure that attempts to incorporate patient value preferences into twist . it is argued that while q-twist is intuitively appealing in the clinical setting , there are formidable design and psychometric hurdles that must be overcome to fully operationalize the concept . 
progress in psychosocial and behavioral cancer research . the need for enabling strategies . a major component of the second workshop on methodology in behavioral and psychosocial cancer research was a discussion of enabling strategies , that is , strategies by which future goals and needs in the area of psychosocial and behavioral oncology might be accomplished . this report describes and comments on the discussion that took place at a special plenary session at which representatives from four funding agencies , the american cancer society , national cancer institute , national institute of mental health , and national science foundation , presented their views and their agencies ' programs for promoting research in psychosocial and behavioral oncology . it is concluded that much progress has been made in the field and that strategies are in place for ensuring continued progress . however , suggestions are also made for new strategies that might accelerate and broaden that progress . 
behavioral and psychosocial cancer research . building on the past , preparing for the future . this report identifies five general conclusions that emerged from the second workshop on methodology in behavioral and psychosocial cancer research . these conclusions address diverse topics , including a focus on areas other than methodology ; an emphasis on the transfer of technology and knowledge to applied settings ; a recognition of the role of basic behavioral research in answering clinical questions ; the need to recognize and strengthen ties between the field of behavioral and psychosocial oncology and the basic behavioral and social science fields from which it emerged ; and the importance of additional research on minorities and other special populations . it is suggested that meeting the challenges posed in each of these five areas is critical to continued progress in the field . 
update : prostate cancer . prostate cancer represents a major health-care issue for older men . recent technical advances in imaging , serum markers , and treatment hold great promise . further insight into the natural history and biologic potential of this ubiquitous neoplasm is necessary before we can make rational decisions about early detection and newer treatment approaches . 
polycystic ovary syndrome . polycystic ovary syndrome is a disorder of unknown cause characterized by anovulation , hyperandrogenism , and gonadotropin secretory abnormalities producing oligo-ovulation or anovulation . hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance are important features of this syndrome . because other causes of androgen excess may produce similar clinical and biochemical findings , pco remains a diagnosis of exclusion . treatment is directed toward relieving symptoms of hyperandrogenemia in order to stimulate ovulation , correcting obesity , and inducing regular menses to reduce the risk of endometrial cancer . 
risk factors for breast cancer . despite the numerous risk factors for the development of breast cancer that have been investigated , only a few demonstrate a clear association with breast cancer development . female gender and increasing age are the most important factors , followed by factors involving a woman 's menstrual , reproductive , and family history . the risks related to menstruation and reproduction are probably related to the duration of estrogenic breast stimulation . the relationship of family history and breast cancer risk is unclear , but there may be a true genetic basis . the previous occurrence of breast cancer ( invasive or in situ ) , the presence of proliferative pathological changes , especially with atypia , and the presence of other malignancies ( e.g. , primary ovarian and endometrial cancer ) are histological risk factors for the development of new or recurrent breast cancer . radiation exposure , the use of exogenous estrogens ( both estrogen replacement therapy and oral contraceptives ) , diet ( especially fat consumption ) , and alcohol intake may all play a role in cancer risk . certain medications as well as patient demographics may also have a weak association . cigarette smoking , caffeine consumption , and stress presently have little support for an association with breast cancer risk . it should be noted that in only one in four patients can breast cancer be accounted for by the known risk factors . this demonstrates that although presently known risk factors may help in screening for the early detection of breast carcinoma , in its possible prevention by modulation of influenceable factors , and in advising patients about their risks , these factors are merely strong associations with breast cancer incidence and not actual causations . the mechanisms of the development of breast cancer are as yet unknown . 
fertility-sparing treatment of patients with ovarian cancer . the variety of malignant neoplasms produced by the ovary are legion . each must be considered individually in the young woman with early disease who wishes to preserve her childbearing capability . the risks of conservative surgery are often low , and the patient can be so advised . careful monitoring of this group of patients is essential regardless of the approach . 
chromogranin a : posttranslational modifications in secretory granules . the primary structure of chromogranin a indicates multiple domains which might be subject to posttranslational modification . we explored chromogranin a 's proteolytic cleavage , glycosylation , and possible intermolecular disulfide links , using biochemical and cell biological approaches . anti-chromogranin a region-specific immunoblots on chromaffin granules suggested bidirectional endoproteolytic cleavage of chromogranin a ; control experiments ruled out artifactual cleavage during granule isolation or lysis . isolation of chromogranin a-derived peptides by gel filtration chromatography or sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis ( sds-page ) , followed by n-terminal amino acid sequencing , established several cleavage sites , including at least two at dibasic sites . secretion of chromogranin a from bovine chromaffin cells did not initiate further cleavage , nor did prolonged exposure of secreted chromogranins to the secretory cells . the chromogranin a cleavage pattern was qualitatively similar in other neuroendocrine tissues , though cleavage was more complete in adrenal medullary than in anterior pituitary hormone storage vesicles , and n-terminal fragments of 45 and 55 kilodaltons were more prominent in the hypothalamus . a similar cleavage pattern was seen in human pheochromocytoma granules , as judged by chromogranin a region-specific immunoblots , fragment isolation by sds-page , and microsequencing . the presence of full-length chromogranin a as the core protein of a chromaffin granule soluble proteoglycan was suggested in bovine ( but not human ) chromaffin granules by glycoprotein staining , chondroitinase abc digestion , chemical deglycosylation , and region-specific immunoblotting . human ( but not bovine ) chromogranin a displayed intermolecular disulfide crosslinks on sds-page gels and immunoblotting . these results document diverse structural paths that the chromogranin a molecule may take in endocrine secretory cells after its translation . 
comparison of frtl-5 cell growth in vitro with that of xenotransplanted cells and the thyroid of the recipient mouse . the present work was designed to compare in vitro cell growth kinetics with in vivo growth under conditions as similar as possible using labeling with [ 3h ] thymidine . to this purpose , frtl-5 cells were cultured as monolayers and as three-dimensional spheroids embedded in collagen gels and transplanted simultaneously into nude mice treated with perchlorate and a low iodine diet . the growth of the transplants was compared to that of the thyroids in host mice . in the intact thyroid , the fraction of [ 3h ] thymidine-labeled follicular cells ( flc ; 24-h labeling ) increased sluggishly to a maximum of 10 % after 3 weeks of goitrogen exposure , with a subsequent autoregulatory decrease to 3 % at 7 weeks . a 4-fold higher flc was found in six adenomas , indicating focal failure of growth-restraining mechanisms . in nonconfluent monolayer cultures the flc was as high as 90 % , even within large individual clusters where cells are in tight mutual contact . solid , highly cellular grafts growing from transplanted monodispersed cells showed an average flc of 20 % , which is 5 times higher than the flc in the identically stimulated mouse thyroid . in collagen-embedded cells , forming three-dimensional spheroids , the mean flc decreased from 70 % at 1 week in vitro ( 40 % in vivo ) to 20 % at 3 weeks both in vitro and in vivo , suggesting effective auto-regulation of excessive growth in both conditions . however , these flc were again much higher than the 3 % flc in simultaneously assessed host thyroids . the difference remained throughout the 45-day period studied . we conclude that frtl-5 cells growing as monolayers and as three-dimensional spheroids in vitro or after xenotransplantation in vivo invariably show much higher proliferation rates under comparable environmental conditions than the normal follicular epithelium in the thyroids of host mice . the one exception is the confluent monolayer with near-zero growth , while densely packed three-dimensional transplants still grow intensively . although growth-retarding cell to cell interactions are also clearly operative in growing frtl-5 cells , they are less effective than those dampening the replication rate of the thyrocytes within the monolayer hull of normal follicles . a local failure of these mechanisms , allowing growth rates comparable to those of grafted frtl-5 cells results in adenoma formation in normal thyroids . these observations call for caution in the transfer of in vitro growth studies with frtl-5 cells to in vivo conditions prevailing in the normal thyroid . 
regulation of pancreastatin release from a human pancreatic carcinoid cell line in vitro . the objective of these experiments was to investigate the influence of activation of three second messenger systems ( protein kinase-c , adenylate cyclase-camp , and calcium mobilization ) on the secretion of pancreastatin ( pst ) and chromogranin-a ( cga ) by a human pancreatic carcinoid cell line ( bon ) in tissue culture . stimulation of protein kinase-c by a phorbol ester ( 0.025-7 .5 microm ) caused a significant dose-related release of pst ( 186 + / - 22-4271 + / - 228 % over controls ) . treatment of bon cells with graded doses of 8-bromo-camp ( 0.14-3 .0 mm ) and isobutylmethylxanthine ( ibmx ; 0.01-1 .0 mm ) also stimulated a dose-related release of pst ( 107 + / - 22-284 + / - 28 and 16 + / - 12-1076 + / - 100 % over controls , respectively ) . incubation of bon cells with ionomycin ( 0.134-13 .4 microm ) increased the release of pst ( 102 + / - 15-554 + / - 21 % over controls ) in a dose-related manner . a combination of ibmx and ionomycin resulted in an additive effect , whereas treatment with a phorbol ester plus ibmx resulted in a synergistic effect on pst release . pretreatment of bon cells with monensin , an agent that prevents processing of precursors to smaller peptides , significantly decreased pst , but not cga , secretion in response to phorbol ester or ionomycin . these findings indicate that protein kinase-c , camp , and ca2 + mobilization participate in cga and pst secretion . although the observation that secretions of pst and cga in response to theophylline are quantitatively associated , the absence of a quantitative relationship in the release patterns of pst and cga in response to phorbol ester and ionomycin do not support a simple precursor-product relationship between cga and pst . the monensin experiments are consistent with the notion that pst is derived from cga in bon cells . 
the gonadotropin-releasing hormone associated peptide reduces calcium entry in prolactin-secreting cells . the precursor molecule to the gnrh contains a peptide named gnrh-associated peptide ( gap ) with prl-inhibiting properties . in this work , we have studied the electrophysiological properties and responses to gap of three different types of prl-secreting cells : 1 ) the rat tumor cell line gh3 , 2 ) normal rat pituitary cells in primary culture , and 3 ) human prl-secreting adenoma cells . using different but complementary techniques we show that gap reduces intracellular ca + + levels , [ ca + + ] i , and inhibits ca + + transients in these cells . this reduction of [ ca + + ] i results from coordinate actions of gap on k + and ca + + conductances and may explain the inhibitory effect of gap on hormonal secretion by prl-secreting cells . 
regulation of the truncation of luteinizing hormone receptors at the plasma membrane is different in rat and mouse leydig cells . regulation of the truncation of lh receptors was investigated in two types of mouse tumor leydig cells ( ma10 and mltc-1 ) , rat testis leydig cells ( rtl ) , and a rat tumor leydig cell ( r2c ) . receptor numbers were measured by binding [ 125i ] hcg to the cells cultured in monolayers . addition of 3.3 nm lh for 2 h at 34 c had no detectable effect on binding sites in rtl or r2c cells , but in ma10 and mltc-1 cells it caused a loss in binding sites . the effect on ma10 and mltc-1 cells could be mimicked by inhibiting receptor internalization with 5 mm nan3 and prevented by the addition of protease inhibitors . incubating rtl and r2c cells with protease inhibitors caused a 2 - to 3-fold increase in binding sites and a 2 - to 3-fold increase in lh ( 0.033 and 0.33 nm ) - stimulated camp production . when rtl and ma10 cells were incubated in the presence of [ 125i ] hcg , a radioactive protein complex with an approximate mol wt of 80,000-90 ,000 was released into the incubation medium . we conclude that lh receptors are regulated by proteolysis at the plasma membrane in both mouse and rat leydig cells . furthermore , truncation of the lh receptor in the mouse leydig cells is involved in down-regulation , whereas in the rat it is a continuous process . 
single cell levels of hypothalamic messenger ribonucleic acid encoding luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone in intact , castrated , and hyperprolactinemic male rats . we have examined the changes that occur in neuronal expression of lhrh mrna in response to castration and hyperprolactinemia in male rats . single cell levels of lhrh mrna were determined by quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry using an 35s-labeled synthetic 48-base oligodeoxynucleotide probe and quantitative autoradiography . nine days postcastration , a 10.4-fold increase in mean plasma lh titers was observed which was associated with significantly increased lhrh mrna in rostral hypothalamic neuronal cell bodies . both increases were blocked in rats rendered hyperprolactinemic by the presence of the 7315a prl-secreting pituitary tumor . the location and number of neurons expressing lhrh mrna were unchanged , indicating that these differences were attributable to amounts of mrna expressed per neuron . experimental differences occurred in lhrh perikarya situated throughout the rostral hypothalamus from the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis to the caudal extent of the medial preoptic nucleus . these results suggest that gonadal steroids and prl are involved , either directly or indirectly , in regulating the biosynthesis of lhrh in the rostral hypothalamus . 
breast cancer screening in older women : practices and barriers reported by primary care physicians . annual mammography , in combination with clinical breast examinations , can reduce mortality from breast cancer . however , surveys of both patients and physicians suggest that mammography is underutilized . this study examined whether physicians ' reported breast cancer screening practices and barriers to mammography varied with patients ' age . data from 576 primary care physicians ( internal medicine , family/general practice , and obstetrics/gynecology ) who participated in a mailed statewide survey were analyzed . physicians reported screening elderly women significantly less often than younger women , regardless of family history of breast cancer . with the exception of medical specialty , physicians ' demographic and practice characteristics were not associated with reported screening practices . however , physicians ' knowledge and beliefs about breast cancer in older women were associated with reported screening practices . when analyzing barriers to ordering mammography , cost to the patient was viewed as a barrier for women of all ages , and pain was viewed as a greater barrier for younger women ; otherwise , physicians consistently believed that their elderly patients faced considerably more barriers compared with younger women . further investigation is required to examine why primary care physicians report age-related differences in both breast screening and barriers to mammography . 
the role of tumor-derived cytokines on the immune system of mice bearing a mammary adenocarcinoma . i. induction of regulatory macrophages in normal mice by the in vivo administration of rgm-csf . using a dimethylbenzanthracene-induced immunogenic nonmetastatic murine mammary adenocarcinoma in balb/c mice , our previous work has shown that splenocytes from tumor bearers have reduced responses to both mitogens and ag including tumor-associated ag . nk and cytotoxic t cell activities are also reduced in splenocytes of tumor bearers . mac-1 +2 + macrophages induced in mammary tumor bearers are capable of down-regulating lymphocyte responses to mitogens and tumor-associated ag by cell to cell contact interaction and increased pge2 production . we have found that the tumor constitutively releases a granulocyte-macrophage ( gm ) - csf-like factor in vivo and in vitro , which may be responsible for the systemic increase in cells of the macrophage lineage in tumor-bearing mice . a tumor cell line established from the in vivo tumor expresses and releases gm-csf as shown by northern and western blot analyses . daily i.p. injections for 3 wk of 10,000 u of rgm-csf into normal mice induces hemopoietic and immunologic alterations similar to those observed in tumor bearers . mac-1 + and/or mac-2 + macrophages can also be detected in the spleens and bone marrow of the mice treated with rgm-csf . additionally , splenocytes from rgm-csf-treated mice have reduced responses to mitogens and their peritoneal exudate cells can cause in vitro down-regulation of proliferative responses of lymphocytes from normal mice . the suppression can be partially reversed by the addition of indomethacin to the cultures suggesting that pge2 may contribute to the effect . rgm-csf enhances the in vitro release of pge2 by the spleen , bone marrow , and peritoneal cells of normal mice . these data indicate that the high levels of gm-csf constitutively produced by the tumor may be responsible for the hemopoietic changes and immunologic alterations observed in tumor-bearing mice . 
insulin-like growth factors are mitogenic for human keratinocytes and a squamous cell carcinoma . normal adult human keratinocytes in monolayer culture and scl-1 , a skin-derived squamous-cell carcinoma cell line , were investigated for the expression of receptors for insulin-like growth factors ( igf ) and insulin . as demonstrated by affinity crosslinking , radiolabeled igf-1 , igf-2 , and insulin bound specifically to both cell types . each cell expressed type i igf receptors , with affinity for igf-1 greater than igf-2 much greater than insulin . insulin receptors , with highest affinity for insulin , were also present on both cells . however , keratinocytes and scl-1 cells differed in 125i-igf-2 binding . 125i-igf-2-bound to both type i and type ii igf receptors in normal keratinocytes , but bound predominantly to membrane-associated igf binding proteins in scl-1 . igf-1 was slightly more potent than igf-2 in stimulating growth of both keratinocytes and scl-1 cells . in keratinocytes , concentrations of igf-1 ranging from 5-100 ng/ml , and of igf-2 from 50-100 ng/ml , resulted in a significant increase in cell number . at the maximum dose of 100 ng/ml , either igf-1 or igf-2 caused a 2.3-times increase in cell number . in scl-1 cells , igf-1 was more potent than igf-2 or insulin at lower concentrations , but either igf-1 or igf-2 at the maximal concentration of 333 ng/ml stimulated a 4.7-times increase in thymidine incorporation . the stimulatory effect of insulin in scl-1 was 10-50 times less potent than that of the igf . the effect of either igf on scl-1 was completely inhibited by the type i igf receptor antibody alpha ir-3 , suggesting that both igfs are mitogenic through the type i igf receptor . insulin action was partially blocked by alpha ir-3 , suggesting that insulin can act through both the insulin and type i igf receptors . it thus appears that igf-1 and igf-2 are mitogens for normal and transformed human keratinocytes and that their actions are primarily mediated through the type i igf receptor , whereas insulin is a mitogen through both the igf-1 receptor and the insulin receptor . 
inositol phosphate formation in the human squamous cell carcinoma line scc-12 f : studies with bradykinin , the calcium ionophore a23187 , and sodium fluoride . the phospholipase c ( plc ) - mediated hydrolysis of membrane phosphoinositides is an important signal transduction pathway coupled to the cell-surface receptors for several hormones and growth factors . in addition , plc activity can be modulated by changes in intracellular calcium and activation of gtp binding proteins . in this report , differential activation of plc in the human keratinocyte cell line scc-12f was studied as judged by specific patterns of inositol phosphate formation . several hormones and growth factors previously shown to stimulate plc in a variety of cell types were screened for activity in scc-12f cells . only bradykinin was active , stimulating the plc-dependent generation of inositol ( 1,4,5 ) triphosphate ( ins ( 1,4,5 ) p3 ) . ins ( 1,4,5 ) p3 was rapidly metabolized to inositol ( 1,4 ) biphosphate ( ins ( 1,4 ) p2 ) and inositol ( 1,3,4,5 ) tetrakisphosphate ( ins ( 1,3,4,5 ) p4 ) , and subsequently degraded to inositol monophosphates . the response elicited by bradykinin was concentration dependent ( ec50 value of 50 nm ) , suggesting involvement of a specific bradykinin receptor . treatment of these cells with the calcium ionophore a23187 appeared to result in the direct formation of ins ( 1,4 ) p2 without ins ( 1,4,5 ) p3 as precursor . treatment of the cells with aif4 - , a putative activator of gtp binding proteins , resulted in the generation of inositol monophosphates as the major metabolites in the absence of detectable ins ( 1,4,5 ) p3 formation . taken together , these observations suggest that the plc complex present in scc-12f cells can be differentially activated to yield either ins ( 1,4,5 ) p3 , ins ( 1,4 ) p2 , or insp. the observed effects may be due to a direct plc-dependent hydrolysis of the appropriate membrane phosphoinositide . 
a clonal cd4-positive t-cell line established from the blood of a patient with sezary syndrome . the reported inability to establish long-term t-cell lines from the blood of cutaneous t-cell lymphoma patients with circulating neoplastic t cells has hindered the development of an in vitro system to investigate sezary syndrome . we have established a rapidly proliferating t-cell line from the peripheral blood of a patient with sezary syndrome , which expresses a mature helper t-cell phenotype and contains cytogenetic abnormalities and t-cell receptor gene rearrangements identical to those in the patient 's blood . the method of establishment and characteristics of this line are described . 
scanning acoustic microscopy of neoplastic and inflammatory cutaneous tissue specimens . acoustic microscopy utilizes high frequency ultrasound to generate microscopic images . the current study was designed to examine representative disorders of the skin by use of a reflective scanning acoustic microscope ( r-sam ) , and to determine whether the obtainable resolution was sufficient to render a microscopic diagnosis . an olympus uh3 scanning acoustic microscope was utilized with lenses producing burst wave frequencies at 600 and 800 mhz ( 600 and 800 million cylces/sec ) . cutaneous tissue specimens representing 12 different neoplastic and inflammatory disorders were examined . acoustic images of unstained sections were compared with conventional light microscopic study of sections stained with hematoxylin-eosin . in most neoplasms examined , it was possible to make a specific diagnosis primarily from low magnification pattern analysis . although individual cells could be visualized , cytologic atypia was poorly defined . in the inflammatory disorders , a specific diagnosis was possible in all but bullous pemphigoid and lichen planus , because the composition of the inflammatory infiltrate was difficult to determine . the advantages of the r-sam include the capability of producing an acoustic profile of the tissue and the future possibility of in situ diagnosis . 
t-cell subsets with a naive phenotype are selectively decreased in the peripheral blood of patients with mycosis fungoides . peripheral blood lymphocytes of 33 patients with histopathologic confirmation of mycosis fungoides and 27 healthy controls matched for age and sex were analyzed with a panel of monoclonal antibodies using both single and dual color immunofluorescence . patients with mycosis fungoides had a significant reduction in the percentage of circulating t cells with a naive phenotype ( i.e. , cd4 +2 h4 + and cd4 + leu8 + ) , as well as a significant reduction in the absolute numbers of circulating lymphocytes with the phenotype cd8 + leu8 + compared to the control cohort . the reduction in circulating naive t cells was found to occur irrespective of stage of disease , duration of disease , or mode of treatment . the depletion of circulating naive t cells may reflect increased conversion to memory t cells in the peripheral blood or skin . 
the use of l-dopa and carbidopa in metastatic malignant melanoma . a combination of l-dopa and carbidopa was given orally to 17 patients with metastatic melanoma . maximum tolerated oral doses were given , up to 4 grams daily . no response was seen in 15 patients evaluable for response . toxicity was considerable , with seven of 17 patients ( 41 % ) stopping treatment because of unacceptable gastrointestinal toxicity or postural hypotension . contrary to previous anecdotal reports , there was no evidence that l-dopa/carbidopa treatment resulted in accelerated progression of metastatic melanoma . orally administered l-dopa/carbidopa is ineffective as therapy for advanced melanoma when maximum tolerated doses are used . 
elderly men with histories of heavy drinking : correlates and consequences . recognition that the physical , psychological and social consequences of substance abuse may persist throughout the life span has led to increased study of the impact of lifetime drinking habits on the elderly . we examined the characteristics of elderly men with self-reported histories of having ever been heavy drinker ( h + ) in a population-based ( n = 1,155 , mean age = 73.7 years ) longitudinal survey of community-dwelling elders ; 10.4 % of the men reported that they had been heavy drinkers at some time during their lives . h + men were younger and less educated than non-heavy drinkers ( h - ) or never drinkers ( n ) . mortality was higher among h + men who were current drinkers than among h - or n men . h + men reported more major illnesses , poorer self-perceived health status , more physician visits , more depressive symptoms , lower levels of life satisfaction and smaller social networks than did h - or n men . self-reported ability to perform activities of daily living and instrumental activities of daily living was poorest among h + men , who also scored the lowest on a mental status examination . thus , a history of having ever been a heavy drinker is predictive of widespread impairments in physical , psychological and social health and functioning among elderly men . 
thyroid disease and pregnancy . thyroid disease is common in younger women and may be a factor in reproductive dysfunction . this probably only applies to severe cases of hyper - or hypothyroidism . once adequately treated , neither of these disorders significantly impacts on fertility . the key is to recognize and to treat thyroid disorders in the reproductive-age woman before conception . thyroxine therapy and even antithyroid drug therapy should be continued during pregnancy as necessary . pregnancy is a euthyroid state that is normally maintained by complex changes in thyroid physiology . the fetal and neonatal hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid system develops independently , but it may be influenced by thyroid disease in the mother . early pregnancy is characterized by an increase in maternal t4 secretion stimulated by hcg and an increase in tbg , resulting in the elevated total serum t4 in pregnancy . the debate continues as to whether maternal t4 is important in early or late fetal brain development . if so , the physiologic changes in thyroid hormone secretion and transport in early pregnancy would help to ensure that a sufficient amount of thyroid hormone was available . there is new evidence in human subjects that substantial maternal t4 can cross the placenta during pregnancy , and this may be particularly important when fetal thyroid function is compromised as a result of congenital hypothyroidism . maternal and fetal/neonatal outcomes in pregnancy are adversely affected if severe hypothyroidism is undiagnosed or inadequately treated . thyroid function tests should be obtained during gestation in women taking t4 and appropriate dose adjustments should be made for tsh levels outside a normal range . the tsh-receptor blocking antibodies from the mother are a recognized cause of congenital hypothyroidism in the fetus and neonate that can be permanent or transient . if neonatal hypothyroidism is detected through neonatal screening programs , and prompt and adequate t4 replacement therapy is instituted as soon as possible following delivery , subsequent growth and development are usually normal . paradoxically , pregnancy often has a favorable effect on the course of maternal hashimoto 's disease , although there is the risk of relapse postpartum . pathophysiologic conditions of hcg secretion such as gestational trophoblastic disease and hyperemesis gravidarum may present as thyrotoxicosis in pregnancy , but the main cause of this syndrome is graves ' disease . the mainstay of treatment is antithyroid drugs and either propylthiouracil or methimazole may be used safely . subtotal thyroidectomy , after medical control , is the alternative treatment , but radioiodine ablation is contraindicated . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
thyroid disease in the elderly . as people in our society live longer , it is important for clinicians to know more about problems commonly seen in the elderly . thyroid problems are especially important to understand because they do occur with rather high frequency , and their mode of presentation is frequently different from those seen in younger patients . the thyroid gland does undergo certain age-related changes in anatomy and physiology , but overall the thyroid is able to produce a normal amount of thyroid hormone throughout the years . hypothyroidism is frequently difficult to diagnose in the elderly , because many of the symptoms of hypothyroidism can easily be confused with symptoms of aging . when hypothyroidism is looked for in large population studies of elderly patients , the incidence varies from 1 % to as high as 17 % , with women being more commonly affected than men , and subclinical hypothyroidism being more common than overt hypothyroidism . virtually all cases of hypothyroidism are due to autoimmune thyroid disease , with most patients having measurable titers of thyroid autoantibodies . the therapy of hypothyroidism is done with extreme caution , as older patients are frequently very sensitive to the effects of excess thyroid hormone . in addition , the metabolism of thyroid hormone slows down with age , making the full replacement dose much less in an older patient than in a younger one . hyperthyroidism is also quite common , occurring in from 0.5 % to 3 % of all elderly patients . the presentation is frequently atypical , as patients often lack the hyperdynamic symptomatology and instead have a more sedated , apathetic presentation . weight loss and cardiac symptoms frequently predominate , and the presence of a goiter is frequently absent , making the diagnosis less obvious than in a younger patient . therapy is usually radioactive iodine , after an adequate course of antithyroid drugs , to render the patient euthyroid . thyroid nodules do occur with increasing frequency in the elderly , but most of them are not malignant . fine-needle aspiration for cytology is very helpful in determining which patients should be referred for surgery . well-differentiated cancers do predominate , but their course is frequently less predictable than in younger patients . lymphoma of the thyroid and undifferentiated cancers do occur with increasing frequency in the elderly . multinodular goiter , usually of longstanding , is frequently seen in elderly patients , and thyroid hormone suppressive therapy not only is not indicated but may contribute to exogenous hyperthyroidism . 
thyroid cancer . there have been important recent advances in our understanding of the biologic nature of thyroid cancer and in the early diagnosis of the disease . despite these advances , there is still considerable controversy over the management of thyroid cancer , including the extent of surgery , the indications for the use of iodine-131 , the effectiveness of thyroid-stimulating hormone suppression , and the prediction of outcome . in this review , the current status of the diagnosis and management of the various types of thyroid cancer are carefully reviewed and extensively documented . 
the effects of nonthyroid disease and drugs on thyroid function tests . serious nonthyroid illness and caloric deprivation , which so often accompany systemic illness , have diverse and still incompletely understood effects on thyroid hormone economy . we have discussed the pathophysiologic basis for the most common pattern of alterations in routine thyroid function tests : a decreased serum t3 concentration ; normal or , in critically ill patients , a low total serum t4 level ; and a normal free t4 concentration . another , less frequent pattern ( high total and free t4 with a normal serum t3 ) can be encountered transiently in the acutely ill medical or psychiatric patient . with the recent advent of sensitive assays for tsh and better methods for serum free t4 , it is now possible to define more quickly and accurately the thyroid-metabolic status of most of these sick patients ; the vast majority are euthyroid . certain drugs confound the picture . the most important of these include dopamine and high-dose glucocorticoids , both of which suppress tsh secretion from the pituitary and may actually cause a state of central hypothyroidism . other drugs have multiple effects on thyroid hormone indices ( e.g. , amiodarone ) . knowledge of all of the ways in which systemic illness , starvation , and certain drugs may influence thyroid function tests is crucial in assessing the thyroid status of patients with serious nonthyroid disease . 
advances in molecular biology . potential impact on diagnosis and treatment of disorders of the thyroid . advances in molecular biology research continue to have a major impact on clinical medicine . these advances have provided a means to produce proteins previously available in limited supply and allow for the production of novel proteins that are improved agonists or else antagonists with greater specificity for therapeutic targets . newer drug delivery systems should facilitate delivery of these proteins . by combining the capabilities to produce drug targets in acceptable quantities with improved methods for determining the three-dimensional structures of these targets , novel organic therapeutic molecules that act on these targets will be designed . gene transfer therapy using genes that express important proteins or that encode " antisense " rnas that inhibit the translation of specific mrnas will soon become a reality . the use of rflps and pcr methodologies promises increased means to diagnose specific genetic diseases and infections . most importantly , molecular biology is helping to understand the mechanisms of disease such that novel diagnostic and therapeutic approaches can be described . these advances are providing an understanding of the mechanisms involved in cancers of the thyroid gland . they have already led to an enhanced understanding of ( 1 ) the growth factors that control proliferation of the thyroid gland , ( 2 ) the potential steps in thyroid nodule and neoplasia development , ( 3 ) particular mutations that may occur as thyroid cancers develop , ( 4 ) oncogenes that are expressed in thyroid cancers , and ( 5 ) the genetic defects that are responsible for thyroid gland malignancies in the multiple endocrine neoplasia ( men ) syndromes . with the latter , the rflp technology has already provided an enhanced means to diagnose the disorder . with further progress , enhanced means for diagnosis and treatment should emerge . molecular biology techniques are contributing to an increased understanding of the mechanisms of development of autoimmune thyroid disease as with graves ' disease and hashimoto 's thyroiditis . the potential role of infections , histocompatibility antigens , thyroid gland and extraglandular antigens , immune modulators , subpopulations of t-cells such as suppressor and helper cells , other cells involved in immune responses , and a combination of influences of several different functions on the thyroid gland are being defined . this knowledge should soon suggest improved means for diagnosis and treatment . understanding of the function of the thyroid hormone receptors should have clinical importance . this knowledge suggests a means to develop thyroid hormone antagonists that may be used to more rapidly ameliorate the effects of hyperthyroidism and could be useful in nonthyroidal disorders such as cardiac arrhythmias . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
suppression of tumorigenicity in human colon carcinoma cells by introduction of normal chromosome 5 or 18 . development of colon carcinomas can be associated with allelic deletions on several chromosomes , including 5q and 18q . the apc gene on 5q and the dcc gene on 18q have been identified as potential tumour suppressor genes , whose suppression contributes to colon carcinogenesis . to investigate the role of genes in these deleted regions , we have now introduced a single normal human chromosome into a human colon carcinoma cell line , cokfu , through microcell hybridization . several clones of hybrid cells containing normal chromosome 5 , and others containing normal chromosome 18 , were obtained . the morphology of the hybrid cells was markedly altered : the hybrids with chromosome 5 exhibited a closely packed polygonal morphology , and the hybrid cells with chromosome 18 were flattened . the cloning efficiency of the hybrid cells in soft agar was reduced from 0.46 to 0 % of that of the parental carcinoma cells , and the tumorigenicity of these hybrid cells in athymic nude mice was completely suppressed . the growth properties of the hybrid cells with chromosome 11 were not substantially changed . these results strongly suggest that the genes on normal chromosome 5 and 18 function as tumour suppressors in colon carcinogenesis . 
lack of transmission of the live attenuated varicella vaccine virus to immunocompromised children after immunization of their siblings . the safety of administering the live attenuated oka/merck varicella vaccine to the well siblings of children with malignancy was evaluated as a strategy for reducing the risk of household exposure to varicella among immunocompromised children . susceptible well children were eligible for vaccination if the child with malignancy had leukemia , lymphoma , or solid tumor in remission for 3 months or longer . no evidence of vaccine virus transmission was found among 30 children with malignancy whose 37 healthy susceptible siblings were immunized with varicella vaccine . varicella-zoster virus was not isolated from the oropharyngeal secretions taken from 17 vaccinees or their 14 immunocompromised siblings . none of the 30 immunocompromised children had vaccine-related rashes or showed immunologic evidence of subclinical varicella-zoster virus infection based on testing for varicella-zoster virus igg antibodies and t-lymphocyte proliferation to varicella-zoster virus . four healthy vaccinees eventually had mild breakthrough cases of varicella , with transmission to the high-risk sibling in 3 cases . however , even in these families , the immunocompromised children had been protected from household exposure varicella for at least 20 months early in the course of their immunosuppressive treatment . 
hepatic arterial embolization in cases of extensive celiac arterial stenosis . transarterial hepatic embolization was attempted in 10 and succeeded in nine patients with hepatocellular carcinoma accompanied by extensive celiac arterial stenosis . all catheterization was done through the femoral artery . in six cases , the tip of the catheter ( 2.5-f ball-tip microcatheter in three cases , 4-f ball-tip supple catheter in three cases ) was placed in the proper hepatic artery through the pancreaticoduodenal collaterals . in three cases , a ball-tip microcatheter was injected from the guiding catheter , which was placed in a pinhole of the celiac trunk . these techniques involving flow-guided ball-tip catheters are of great value for hepatic arterial catheterization in cases of extensive celiac arterial stenosis . 
malignancy associated with chronic empyema : radiologic assessment . radiologic findings of six cases of malignancy associated with chronic empyema 5-39 years in duration were reviewed . pathologic examination confirmed three b-cell non-hodgkin lymphomas , one round-cell sarcoma , one mesothelioma , and one adenocarcinoma . retrospective findings on plain chest radiographs suggested the occurrence of malignancy : increased radiopacity in the thoracic cavity , soft-tissue bulgings and/or unsharpness of fat planes in the chest walls , destruction of bone near the empyema , and extensive medial deviation of the calcified pleurae . computed tomography delineated masses with soft-tissue attenuation more clearly than radiography in all cases . magnetic resonance images of three cases were informative because empyema cavities were surrounded by low-intensity rims , and two of them showed a signal intensity different from that of necrotic tumors . scintigraphy revealed increased uptake of gallium in all cases . ultrasonography was useful for biopsy guidance . every radiologist should know this entity in observation of chest radiographs obtained in patients with chronic empyema , and further radiologic assessment and aggressive biopsy are recommended if malignancy is suspected . 
use of gadolinium-enhanced mr imaging for differentiating mucoceles from neoplasms in the paranasal sinuses . the purpose of this study was to determine whether additional clinically useful information could be obtained from gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging compared with the information obtained from nonenhanced mr imaging and computed tomography ( ct ) . therefore , the authors selected 41 patients , whose results at ct examinations demonstrated a variety of pathologic conditions of the paranasal sinuses , to undergo mr imaging both with and without the use of gadopentetate dimeglumine for contrast enhancement . in 22 of 35 cases of neoplasms and mucoceles occurring separately , the lesions were correctly differentiated by established mr signal criteria alone . however , 32 of these 35 cases were accurately differentiated when gadolinium-enhanced mr images were obtained . six cases demonstrated co-existing neoplasm and mucocele : gadolinium-enhanced mr enabled correct differentiation of five of these lesions , while unenhanced mr enabled correct differentiation of three . on the basis of these results , the authors conclude that the use of gadopentetate dimeglumine for contrast enhancement at mr imaging is useful for differentiating mucoceles from neoplasms in the sinonasal tract . 
normal and abnormal pituitary glands : gadopentetate dimeglumine-enhanced mr imaging . dynamic magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging with a 1.5-t superconductive unit was used in the evaluation of nine normal pituitary glands and 10 pituitary adenomas , including four microadenomas and six macroadenomas . seven to 10 images were obtained every 20-30 seconds with use of the spin-echo technique after rapid injection of gadopentetate dimeglumine . the earliest contrast material enhancement of normal structures was seen in the infundibulum and posterior lobe of the pituitary gland at 20 seconds , followed by gradual contrast material enhancement of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland from the junction of the infundibulum to the peripheral portion of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland within 80 seconds after gadopentetate dimeglumine injection . the peak enhancement of pituitary adenomas occurred at 60-200 seconds , usually after the most marked enhancement of the normal pituitary gland . microadenomas are best visualized at earlier phases of gadopentetate dimeglumine-enhanced dynamic imaging , with signal intensity lower than that seen on images of normal pituitary glands . 
benign and malignant nodules in cirrhotic livers : distinction based on blood supply . the blood supplies of nodular lesions associated with liver cirrhosis were analyzed in vivo with various imaging modalities . the portal blood supply was evaluated with computed tomography ( ct ) during arterial portography ( ctap ) ; the arterial blood supply was evaluated with hepatic angiography , ct angiography , ct following intraarterial injection of iodized oil , or ultrasound following intraarterial injection of carbon dioxide microbubbles . a total of 84 surgically confirmed hepatocellular carcinomas ( hccs ) ( less than or equal to 3 cm ) and 25 areas of adenomatous hyperplasia ( ah ) were included in the study . at ctap , a portal blood supply was seen in 96 % of cases of ah and only 6 % of hccs ( chi 2 , p less than .005 ) . in contrast , an arterial supply greater than that of the surrounding liver was verified in 94 % of the hccs and only 4 % of the cases of ah ( chi 2 , p less than .005 ) . the blood supply of areas of ah with atypical hepatocytes and the blood supply of well-differentiated hccs ( edmondson grade 1 ) tended to be intermediate between that of ah without atypia and that of hcc that was edmondson and steiner grade 2 or greater . evaluation of the blood supply of the nodular lesions associated with liver cirrhosis is considered to be useful in the differential diagnosis and treatment of early-stage hcc . 
hepatic dynamic sequential ct : section enhancement profiles with a bolus of ionic and nonionic contrast agents . the enhancement characteristics in different portions of the liver during dynamic sequential bolus computed tomography ( ct ) with iodinated contrast material ( dsbct ) were prospectively evaluated in 75 patients by using iothalamate meglumine , iopamidol , and iohexol ( 25 patients received each agent ) . after baseline noncontrast ct was performed , dsbct was performed with a 180-ml intravenous bolus administered at 2 ml/sec . scanning was started 25 seconds after the bolus was initiated , by using a 3-second scan time and rapid cephalocaudal table incrementation , yielding contiguous 8-mm-thick sections at a rate of nine sections per minute . on postcontrast images , peak enhancement was 115 % for iopamidol and 117 % for iohexol , both of which were superior to iothalamate meglumine at 95 % ( p less than .05 ) . after peaking , enhancement then decreased for all three contrast agents , although the decline was more precipitous for iothalamate meglumine . enhancement on the more caudal sections with both iopamidol and iohexol was superior to that with iothalamate meglumine ( p less than .05 ) . the data suggest that the enhancement characteristics for the two nonionic agents may be more optimal for detection of focal hepatic lesions than the ionic agent . 
linkage of early-onset familial breast cancer to chromosome 17q21 . human breast cancer is usually caused by genetic alterations of somatic cells of the breast , but occasionally , susceptibility to the disease is inherited . mapping the genes responsible for inherited breast cancer may also allow the identification of early lesions that are critical for the development of breast cancer in the general population . chromosome 17q21 appears to be the locale of a gene for inherited susceptibility to breast cancer in families with early-onset disease . genetic analysis yields a lod score ( logarithm of the likelihood ratio for linkage ) of 5.98 for linkage of breast cancer susceptibility to d17s74 in early-onset families and negative lod scores in families with late-onset disease . likelihood ratios in favor of linkage heterogeneity among families ranged between 2000:1 and greater than 10 ( 6 ) :1 on the basis of multipoint analysis of four loci in the region . 
inheritance of proliferative breast disease in breast cancer kindreds . previous studies have emphasized that genetic susceptibility to breast cancer is rare and is expressed primarily as premenopausal breast cancer , bilateral breast cancer , or both . proliferative breast disease ( pbd ) is a significant risk factor for the development of breast cancer and appears to be a precursor lesion . pbd and breast cancer were studied in 103 women from 20 kindreds that were selected for the presence of two first degree relatives with breast cancer and in 31 control women . physical examination , screening mammography , and four-quadrant fine-needle breast aspirates were performed . cytologic analysis of breast aspirates revealed pbd in 35 % of clinically normal female first degree relatives of breast cancer cases and in 13 % of controls . genetic analysis suggests that genetic susceptibility causes both pbd and breast cancer in these kindreds . this study supports the hypothesis that this susceptibility is responsible for a considerable portion of breast cancer , including unilateral and postmenopausal breast cancer . 
detection of ki-67 proliferation rate in breast cancer . correlation with clinical and pathologic features . in situ determination of proliferative activity was performed on 203 breast cancers by use of ki-67 monoclonal antibody and immunohistochemical methods . tumor proliferation rate was analyzed and correlated to tumor size and nodal status . the relationship between ki-67 proliferative activity and nuclear estrogen receptor content was also investigated on adjacent tissue sections . ki-67 values ranged from 1 to 75 % , with a median value of 10 % . premenopausal patients had greater ki-67 values ( median value , 14.1 % ) than postmenopausal ones ( median value , 9.8 % ) . the authors observed no correlation with lymph nodal involvement , whereas a statistically significant relationship with tumor size was found ( p less than 0.01 ) . an inverse correlation ( spearman 's coefficient = -0.56 ; p less than 0.001 ) was seen between ki-67 values and nuclear estrogen receptor content . these results , similar to those reported for other kinetic measurements , suggest that in situ detection of ki-67 proliferation rate is a useful method for obtaining cell cycle information . follow-up studies will be needed to assess an eventual prognostic relevance . 
fluorescent cytochemical detection of estrogen and progesterone receptors in breast fine-needle aspirates . estrogen and progesterone receptors were studied in fine-needle aspiration biopsy specimens of 56 patients with primary , recurrent , or metastatic breast carcinoma . the ligands , 17 b-estradiol-6-carboxymethyloxine-bovine serum albumin fluorescein isothiocyanate ( fitc-bsa estradiol ) and hydroxyprogesterone hemisuccinate bovine serum albumin tetramethyl rhodamine isothiocyanate ( tmritc-bsa progesterone ) , were used in the fluorescent cytochemical method . the findings obtained from the aspirated cells with the use of the fluorescent cytochemical technique were compared with results obtained from the cell population of the same tumor after removal with the use of both the fluorescent cytochemical technique and the biochemical dextran-coated charcoal ( dcc ) assay . for the needle aspirates , there was 89 % concordance for estrogen receptor and 86 % concordance for progesterone receptor between biochemical and cytochemical results . a high degree of correlation was also demonstrated between fine-needle aspirates and imprint preparations with the use of the cytochemical technique . this study suggests that the fluorescent cytochemical technique is an effective tool in assessment of estrogen and progesterone receptor content in fine-needle aspirates of primary and metastatic breast cancer . the fluorescent cytochemical technique can be performed easily at community hospitals and is well suited for specimens of insufficient size for biochemical assay . 
evaluation of in vitro bromodeoxyuridine labeling of breast carcinomas with the use of a commercial kit . the prognostic significance of s-phase fraction analyses of breast carcinomas has been reported by several investigators . the cell proliferation kit ( amersham corporation , arlington heights , il ) , which uses in vitro bromodeoxyuridine ( brdu ) labeling to evaluate cell cycle kinetics without a flow cytometer or radioisotopes , simplifies this assay for the clinical-based laboratory by providing standardized reagents and recommended methods . this study was performed to determine whether data derived from its use were comparable to published s-phase data from the use of thymidine labeling , brdu , or other methods on breast carcinomas . primary infiltrating ductal carcinomas ( n = 142 ) and primary lobular carcinomas ( n = 6 ) showed mean and median brdu labeling of 4.63 % and 3 % , 1.3 % and 1 % , respectively , with a range of 0-28 % . benign lesions always had less than 3 % brdu uptake ( n = 21 ) . estrogen receptor ( er ) and progesterone receptor ( pr ) status correlated with brdu labeling ( p less than 0.05 ) , with the highest s-phase fractions in er - and pr-negative tumors . correlations between brdu uptake and histologic tumor type or size were observed . significant correlations between brdu uptake and lymph node status , patient age , or histologic tumor grade were not observed . s-phase studies of breast carcinomas using other techniques have shown similar data , therefore , the cell proliferation kit appears to be a practical and useful method for in vitro s-phase analysis that allows concomitant histologic examination of the same tumor tissue sample . 
neuroendocrine carcinoma of the ampulla of vater . a case of absence of somatostatin in a vasoactive intestinal polypeptide - , bombesin - , and cholecystokinin-producing tumor . a 31-year-old patient with a clinical picture of obstructive jaundice had surgical treatment , and a primary carcinoid of the ampulla of vater ( va ) was found . the tumor was studied with light microscopy , immunohistochemistry , and electron microscopy . the neoplasm had histopathologic and cytopathologic features similar to those encountered in typical neuroendocrine neoplasms . it is interesting that immunohistochemical techniques disclosed the presence of vasointestinal polypeptide , cholecystokinin , and bombesin ; however , unlike most neuroendocrine neoplasms arising in va , no somatostatin-immunoreactive cells were found . 
diagnostic value of dna analysis in effusions by flow cytometry and image analysis . a prospective study on 102 patients as compared with cytologic examination one hundred twenty-six effusion samples from 102 patients were examined by cytology and flow cytometry ( fcm ) . overall , there was an 84 % correlation between cytologic and fcm results . of the 36 malignant cases determined by cytologic examination , fcm revealed an aneuploid peak in 20 ( 56 % ) . image analysis ( ia ) performed on the malignant cytologic cases with a diploid flow pattern detected two additional aneuploid peaks . in addition , fcm indicated three aneuploid cases in which cytologic characteristics were initially interpreted as benign ( false negative ) . aneuploidy was therefore detected in 64 % of the malignant effusion specimens by fcm and ia . twenty-three of the total of 24 aneuploid cases detected by fcm were associated with malignancy ( predictive value = 96 % ) . the one nonmalignant case was that of hemorrhagic pancreatitis with infected pseudocyst . fcm is an excellent tool when moderate to large numbers of tumor cells are present , whereas use of ia is advantageous for specimens containing smaller numbers of malignant cells because these can be directly analyzed . when an aneuploid peak is present , a diagnosis of malignancy must be suspected , and , if the initial cytologic screen is negative , a critical review of the cytology slides is justified . in those cases with an equivocal atypical cytology report and an abnormal cytometric histogram , additional investigation is warranted . in some malignancies the tumor cells will be diploid ( in this study 36 % ) and neither fcm nor ia will add to tumor detection , leaving cytologic examination as the definitive technique . 
evolution of in vitro transformation and tumorigenesis of hpv16 and hpv18 immortalized primary cervical epithelial cells . cervical carcinoma develops through a progressive spectrum of premalignant intraepithelial lesions ( cin i-iii ) , the majority of which are associated with human papillomavirus ( hpv ) types 16 and 18 . we established hpv16 and hpv18 immortalized human cervical epithelial cell lines and used them as a model to investigate the genesis and progression of cervical malignancy . the cell lines when cultured in vitro in a system mimicking their in vivo environment exhibit cytologic atypia and a variety of defects in morphologic differentiation at early passage compared to their normal counterparts . with increased passage , these alterations progress to more severe grades , histologically similar to cin iii ; however only a limited number of the cell lines are tumorigenic , mimicking the epidemiologic evidence on the rate of conversion from premalignant to invasive carcinoma . the observed changes are not associated with alterations of viral dna integration or expression and may reflect specific cellular events or changes in virus-host interactions associated with malignant progression . 
expression of blood group antigens h-2 , le ( y ) , and sialylated-le ( a ) in human colorectal carcinoma . an immunohistochemical study using double-labeling techniques . in this study , double-labeling immunohistochemistry was used to gain insight into the coexpression or interrelationship between blood group antigens ( bga ) that are differentiation antigens in the normal colon , and bga that are sequential moieties in the same synthetic pathway . paired-wise sialylated-le ( a ) / le ( y ) and h-2 / le ( y ) was studied . the sialylated-le ( a ) and le ( y ) are synthesized from type 1 and type 2 backbones , respectively . in the normal colon , the le ( y ) and sialylated-le ( a ) are expressed by cells at the base and surface of the crypt , respectively , representing undifferentiated and differentiated enterocytes . the h-2 is considered oncofetal in nature , and is considered to be the immediate precursor in the synthesis of le ( y ) . in individual cancers . sialylated-lea and le ( y ) were detected in different cancer cells within the same malignant glands , separately in different glands , and in different subcellular compartments of the same cell . both h-2 and le ( y ) were coexpressed in the same individual cells in 92 % of cancers expressing both these bga . in 50 % of the cancers , the h-2 and le ( y ) also were expressed separately in different malignant glands within individual tumors . these findings indicate that , in colorectal cancers , differentiation antigens ( sialylated le ( a ) and le ( y ) ) are expressed by different individual cells within the same malignant gland somewhat , recapitulating the normal colon crypt . antigens of different backbones occasionally may be expressed in the same cells but within different subcellular compartments . precursor accumulation is common in cancers , and antigens in the same synthetic pathway are coexpressed in the same cell . the expression of h-2 and le ( y ) in different glands ( lack of coexpression ) may be explained possibly by aberrant synthesis of le ( y ) by an alternate pathway . 
phenotypic relationships of prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia to invasive prostatic carcinoma . thirty-one snap-frozen human prostate specimens containing examples of benign hyperplasia , prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia ( pin ) , and invasive carcinoma were analyzed using a panel of 24 antibodies and one lectin . twenty-seven additional routinely processed radical prostatectomy specimens were studied using selected probes known to work on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded material . three probes , anticytokeratin ka4 , anti-vimentin v9 , and the lectin from ulex europaeus ( uea-1 ) , demonstrated phenotypic similarities between pin and invasive carcinoma . whereas the luminal cells of normal or hyperplastic prostatic epithelium are minimally reactive with ka4 ( 4 % ) or uea-1 ( 0 % ) and strongly reactive with anti-vimentin ( 91 % ) , both the pin and invasive carcinoma are reactive with ka4 ( 89 % and 93 % , respectively ) and uea-1 ( 96 % and 93 % , respectively ) and minimally reactive with anti-vimentin ( 15 % and 0 % , respectively ) . the increased ka4 staining was shown to be in part due to detection of cytokeratin 19 , by using cytokeratin-19-specific antibodies , 4.62 and lp2k . the reasons for the increased expression of this cytokeratin and the decreased expression of vimentin are unclear but seem to indicate a phenotypic relationship between the pin lesions and invasive carcinoma . 
tumor-secreted vascular permeability factor increases cytosolic ca2 + and von willebrand factor release in human endothelial cells . vascular permeability factor ( vpf ) , a tumor-secreted heparin-binding protein ( mr approximately 38,000 ) , is responsible for increased vessel permeability and fluid accumulation associated with tumor growth . vascular permeability factor also promotes the growth of human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( ec ) and bovine pulmonary ecs in vitro . it is shown for the first time that guinea pig vpf ( half-maximal and maximal dose approximately 0.4 and 22 pmol/l ( picomolar ) , respectively ) , as well as human vpf , are potent stimuli for human ecs resulting in [ ca2 + ] i increases ( maximal three - to fourfold ) and inositol triphosphate ( ip3 ) formation . unlike the maximal responses to thrombin and histamine , the [ ca2 + ] i response to a maximal vpf dose was preceded by a characteristic 10 - to 15-second delay . guinea pig vpf also selectively increased [ ca2 + ] i in cultured aortic and pulmonary artery ecs , but not aortic smooth muscle cells , human fibroblasts , or neutrophils . affinity-purified rabbit antibody ( raised to a synthetic peptide representing vpf n-terminal amino acids 1 to 24 ) adsorbed all vessel permeability-increasing activity , ec growth-promoting activity , and specifically all activity responsible for increasing ec [ ca2 + ] i. similar to other mediators that increase [ ca2 + ] i in cultured ecs , vpf also induced a 200 % increase in von willebrand factor release . together these data indicate that vpf acts directly on ecs and that rapid cellular events in its in vivo/in vitro actions are likely to involve phospholipase c activation , [ ca2 + ] i increase , and von willebrand factor release . 
immunoreactivity and receptor expression of insulinlike growth factor i and insulin in human adrenal tumors . an immunohistochemical study of 94 cases . using immunoperoxidase methods , 94 human adrenal tumors were examined for evidence of immunoreactivity and receptor expression of insulinlike growth factor i ( igf-i ) and insulin . the frequency of igf-i in adrenocortical carcinomas was significantly higher than that in adenomas of the adrenal glands . the adrenocortical carcinomas showed strong intensity of staining for igf-i , igf-i receptors , and insulin receptors . a significant correlation between immunoreactivity and receptor expression of both igf-i and insulin was found only in the adrenocortical carcinomas . the adrenocortical adenomas with cushing 's syndrome and pheochromocytomas , more than adrenocortical adenomas with conn 's syndrome , also stained strongly for insulin receptors . thus the igf-i and insulin probably play a role in the growth of adrenocortical carcinoma tissues , possibly through autocrine mechanisms . the expression of insulin receptors in adrenocortical adenomas in the presence of cushing 's syndrome and pheochromocytomas may be associated with functions . 
a critical analysis of the largest reported mass fecal occult blood screening program in the united states . fecal occult blood testing for the detection of colon cancer remains controversial . we performed a mass screening program from january 24 , 1988 , to february 19 , 1988 , with intensive media promotion , including 121 minutes of televised air time . a total of 5,000 primary practitioners were notified by mail . hemoccult-ii tests were distributed to 156,000 individuals ; 55,051 ( 35 % ) were returned . ninety-five percent of the respondents were informed of the program by television . a total of 3,375 persons ( 6 % ) tested positive for fecal occult blood ; of these , 2,469 ( 73 % ) informed the center that they saw their physician to initiate a work-up . information from physicians regarding work-ups was returned on only 1,356 ( 55 % ) patients . diagnostic tests numbered 2,227 ( 1.6 tests per patient ) . however , 5 % had no testing , 16 % had a repeat hemoccult only , and 35 % had neither a barium enema nor colonoscopy performed . thirty-six colorectal cancers and 212 polyps were identified . the predictive value ( i.e. , number of cancers per number of patients who tested positive ) increased directly by decade . thirty-three of 36 patients ( 92 % ) with cancer underwent either a barium enema or colonoscopy versus only 185 of 438 ( 42 % ) patients with a " negative " work-up . cancers found were carcinoma in situ in 10 patients ( 29 % ) , dukes a in 12 ( 35 % ) , dukes b in 4 ( 12 % ) , and dukes c in 8 ( 24 % ) ; distant metastases were not found in any participant . thirty-six percent of the tumors were located in either the right or transverse colon . we conclude that : ( 1 ) screening identified early cancers . all were potentially curable and 64 % were limited to the bowel wall . ( 2 ) massive hemoccult distribution was possible over a short interval , but patient and physician compliance was disturbingly low . ( 3 ) total colonic evaluation is mandatory , since at least 36 % of tumors were beyond the reach of the flexible sigmoidoscope . ( 4 ) many work-ups were unnecessary ( repeat hemoccults ) or inadequate , indicating a need for physician education . 
surgical management of nonparasitic cystic liver disease . we report clinical features , surgical management , recurrences , and follow-up study of 12 patients with simple hepatic cyst , 11 patients with polycystic liver disease , and 19 patients with cystadenoma who were surgically treated over a 25-year period . the median age of patients was 48 years , and 37 women and 5 men were in the series . the most common presenting symptom and physical finding were chronic abdominal pain and tenderness in the right upper quadrant . the most commonly associated disease was polycystic kidney disease , which was an associated finding in 5 of the 11 patients with polycystic liver disease ( 45 % ) . the most valuable diagnostic studies in all groups were computed tomography and ultrasonography . the location of the disease was bilobar in patients with polycystic liver disease , with a right lobe predominance in 18 % of patients . the right lobe was also predominant in 83 % of patients with simple hepatic cyst and 58 % of patients with cystadenoma . of all solitary cystic lesions in the left lobe , 75 % of them were cystadenomas . of the 66 surgical procedures performed , aspiration was associated with a failure rate of 100 % ; partial excision , a failure rate of 61 % ; and total excision and liver resection , a failure rate of 0 % . orthotopic liver transplantation was performed in three patients and was associated with two early deaths . partial excision relieved symptoms in three patients ( 43 % ) with polycystic liver disease . total excision , enucleation , or liver resection with cyst ( s ) is the treatment of choice for non-parasitic cystic lesions of the liver . 
factors influencing survival after pancreaticoduodenectomy for pancreatic cancer . eighty-nine patients with carcinoma of the head of the pancreas underwent pancreaticoduodenectomies . the actuarial 5-year survival for all 89 patients was 19 % , with a median survival of 11.9 months . the 81 hospital survivors were analyzed in an effort to determine factors influencing long-term survival . negative lymph nodes and the absence of blood vessel invasion both favored long-term survival . the strongest predictive factor was negative lymph node status with a median survival of 55.8 months , compared with 11 months with lymph nodes involved with tumor ( p less than 0.05 ) . blood transfusions were also predictive , with patients receiving two or fewer units having a median survival of 24.7 months , compared with 10.2 months for those receiving three or more units ( p less than 0.05 ) . the most important determinant of long-term survival after pancreaticoduodenectomy for pancreatic cancer is biology of the tumor ( lymph node status , blood vessel invasion ) . however , performance of the resection ( units of blood transfused ) also appears to be an important factor influencing survival . 
immunophenotyping in the management of gastric lymphoma . primary gastric lymphoma is a rare tumor in which surgical resection plays a major role in improving the response rate and reducing the incidence of bleeding and perforation after chemotherapy . in 17 consecutive patients , the diagnosis of gastric lymphoma was made by immunophenotyping snap-frozen endoscopic biopsy specimens . all neoplasms were b-cell lymphomas . pan b surface marker antigens were present in all patients . levels of ki-67 , a nuclear marker of tumor proliferation , were greater than 45 % in two of the four patients who died after progression of their lymphoma . all patients alive had ki-67 levels of less than 30 % . a lower proliferation index , as measured by ki-67 , appears to be associated with better prognosis . ten of 11 patients treated by resection prior to chemotherapy had no complications . immunophenotyping is the key in the differential diagnosis when considering malignant lymphoma with gastric carcinoma and benign conditions such as pseudolymphoma . 
implications of peritoneal cytology for staging of early pancreatic cancer . cytologic examination of peritoneal washings was performed in 40 patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma ( 35 head , 5 body ) whose tumors had been selected as potentially resectable by computed tomographic ( ct ) findings . saline ( 100 ml ) was instilled and aspirated at laparoscopy in 27 patients and at laparotomy in 13 . malignant cells were found in the peritoneal washings in 12 of 40 patients ( 30 % ) : 29 % in cancers of the pancreatic head versus 40 % in the body ; 33 % at laparoscopy versus 23 % at laparotomy ; and in 4 of 8 patients with ascites versus 8 of 32 without ascites . the cytology was positive in 6 of 8 patients ( 75 % ) who had a prior percutaneous needle biopsy versus 6 of 32 ( 19 % ) of those who did not ( p less than 0.01 ) . liver metastases were found in six patients , all with negative cytology . one of 10 pancreatic head cancers with positive cytology was resectable versus 13 of 25 with negative cytology ( p less than 0.05 ) . survival was significantly longer in patients with negative cytology . we conclude that ( 1 ) pancreatic cancer sheds malignant cells into the peritoneum early and commonly ; ( 2 ) laparoscopic lavage is an effective means of cytologic study ; ( 3 ) ascites is not a precondition for cytologic study , nor does its presence necessarily imply carcinomatosis ; ( 4 ) intraperitoneal spread of cancer cells may be promoted by tumor biopsy ; ( 5 ) cytologic findings provide an additional index of resectability ; and ( 6 ) cytologic findings appear to correlate with duration of survival . this study shows that even " localized " pancreatic cancer is often not contained and suggests caution with biopsy of potentially curable lesions . 
differential diagnosis of sclerosing cholangiocarcinomas of the common hepatic duct ( klatskin tumors ) . although it is recognized that some other lesion may be the cause , a presumptive diagnosis of klatskin tumor is usually made when a focal stenotic lesion of the common hepatic duct is seen on a cholangiogram of a jaundiced patient . biopsy is so often nondiagnostic that decisions about therapy are usually made on the basis of the imaging tests and lack of evidence for some other disease . because the accuracy and consequences of this strategy have never been tested , we contrasted the preoperative diagnosis of klatskin tumor with the final diagnosis in 98 consecutive patients treated from 1985 to 1990 . preoperative investigations included ultrasound and computed tomographic scans , percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography , endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography , and angiography . sclerosing cholangiocarcinomas of the bile duct were correctly diagnosed in 68 cases . the final diagnosis was other than a sclerosing adenocarcinoma in 30 ( 31 % ) cases . there were 5 papillary bile duct carcinomas , 12 gallbladder carcinomas invading the bile duct , 5 metastatic tumors to the bile duct , 2 cases of mirizzi syndrome , 3 granulomas , and 3 cases of idiopathic benign focal stenosis . patients with papillary adenocarcinomas had an extensive filling defect of the duct , which was often thought to be unresectable . however , four of these five lesions could be completely excised , and the tumor was confined to the duct wall in all four . the outcome of surgical treatment of the other eight patients with benign lesions was good in most cases . these findings demonstrate the pitfalls of assuming that a focal stenosis of the hepatic duct represents a sclerosing adenocarcinoma . the diagnosis is much less specific than is generally thought , so there is considerable opportunity for mismanaging such patients . 
high-grade dysplasia in the columnar-lined esophagus . abnormal columnar lining of the esophagus is a well-recognized premalignant condition . the management of patients with high-grade dysplasia without evidence of carcinoma remains controversial . esophagectomy is proposed by some investigators , whereas others favor follow-up endoscopy and biopsy until microinvasive malignancy is documented . we reviewed our experience with nine patients referred with high-grade dysplasia on endoscopic biopsies without evidence of carcinoma . eight patients had the columnar lining extending orad from the cardia , and one patient had heterotopic columnar epithelium in the cervical esophagus . all were white men ranging in age from 19 to 76 years ( median : 47 years ) . eight patients underwent esophagectomy with colon interposition . a sleeve resection of the cervical esophagus was done in one patient . multifocal carcinoma was found in three patients , all of whom had severe dysplastic changes throughout the columnar lining . the patient with heterotopic columnar epithelium had microinvasive carcinoma . all four patients with carcinoma had negative nodes and are long-term survivors . no carcinoma was found in the resected specimens of the remaining five patients . high-grade dysplasia is an important marker of malignancy in patients with a columnar-lined esophagus . esophagectomy is indicated in suitable candidates since carcinoma was found in 45 % of our patients . 
thoracoscopy for the diagnosis of pleural disease . objective : to assess the accuracy and safety of thoracoscopy for the evaluation of pleural disease . design : prospective evaluation of patients referred for thoracoscopy . setting : university hospital specializing in chest diseases . patients : we studied 102 patients with pleural disease , the cause of which had not been determined after initial investigation , including thoracentesis and needle biopsy . eighty-six patients had pleural effusion , 11 had pleural mass , and 5 had pleural effusion in association with a known primary lung carcinoma . intervention : all patients had thoracoscopy under local anesthesia with mild sedation . visually directed biopsies were done of parietal pleura . measurements : we recorded clinical characteristics , laboratory data , findings and duration of thoracoscopy , and any complications associated with the procedure . hospital and clinic follow-up records were reviewed , and patients were contacted by telephone 12 and 24 months after thoracoscopy to assess their health status . main results : one hundred and four thoracoscopies were done in 102 patients . a definitive diagnosis was established in 95 patients : 42 had malignant pleural disease and 53 had benign pleural disease . a diagnosis of benign pleural disease using thoracoscopy could not be confirmed in the remaining 7 patients because of insufficient follow-up information . overall , thoracoscopy was 96 % accurate with a sensitivity of 91 % , a specificity of 100 % and a negative predictive value of 93 % for the diagnosis of pleural malignancy . thoracoscopy was well tolerated under local anesthesia and entailed hospitalization for less than 24 hours in most cases . no deaths occurred , although 1.9 % of patients had major complications , and 5.5 % had minor complications . conclusions : among patients with pleural disease remaining undiagnosed after usual initial investigation , thoracoscopy done under local anesthesia is a rapid , safe , and well-tolerated procedure with an excellent diagnostic yield that is equivalent to that of thoracotomy . 
late deaths after treatment for childhood cancer . an investigation of 749 deaths occurring among 4082 patients surviving at least five years after the diagnosis of childhood cancer in britain before 1971 has been undertaken . of the 738 with sufficient information the numbers of deaths attributable to the following causes were : recurrent tumour , 550 ( 74 % ) , a second primary tumour , 61 ( 8 % ) , a medical condition related to treatment of the tumour , 49 ( 7 % ) , an traumatic death unrelated to the tumour or its treatment , 34 ( 5 % ) , finally , any other cause unrelated to the tumour or its treatment , 44 ( 6 % ) . less than 10 % of five year survivors of non-hodgkin lymphomas , neuroblastoma , retinoblastoma , wilms ' tumour , or a soft tissue sarcoma died of recurrent tumour during the next 15 years , while more than 25 % of five year survivors of hodgkin 's disease , ependymoma , medulloblastoma , and ewing 's tumour died of recurrent tumour during the corresponding period . almost 50 % of five year survivors of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia died of recurrent disease during the corresponding 15 years , a large proportion of deaths being due to central nervous system relapse in an era before central nervous system prophylaxis was routinely given . comparison of the mortality observed with that expected from mortality rates in the general population indicated three times the expected number of deaths from non-neoplastic causes . five times the expected number of deaths from cardiovascular causes were observed , these were predominantly myocardial infarction and cerebrovascular accidents . there was no evidence of an excess in the number of suicides observed , but there were three times the expected number of deaths from accidents observed after central nervous system tumours . 
acute myeloid leukemia and background radiation in an expanded case-referent study . a case-referent study that investigated possible associations between environmental and occupational exposures and acute myeloid leukemia was performed on 86 cases and 172 referents , all of whom were living . exposure information was obtained through a questionnaire mailed to each subject . an association was found between time spent in concrete buildings at home and work and leukemia morbidity . in addition , extensive x-ray examinations that occurred more than 5 y prior to diagnosis were more common among cases than referents . 
expression of blood group antigens by normal bronchopulmonary tissues and common forms of pulmonary carcinomas . the expression of abh and lewis antigens has been studied in a series of pulmonary carcinomas , in areas of squamous metaplasia , and in normal adjacent bronchopulmonary tissues by means of a panel of lectins and monoclonal antibodies . all respiratory epithelial cells can express antigens , with the exception of glandular serous cells . the expression of ab antigens is rather homogeneous , while lewis antigens are expressed in a more irregular pattern , alternating positively stained cells with negatively stained cells in the same microscopic field . the expression of blood group antigens allows the identification of residual pneumocytes inside the tumor and the proper classification of some neoplasms . metaplastic areas show a variation in the staining profile when compared with normal tissues and pulmonary carcinomas . the most significant findings are the deletion of a antigen and the strong expression of le antigen . pulmonary carcinomas are composed by a heterogeneous population and tend to express antigens in the more differentiated cases or areas . the most important findings are the deletion of ab antigens and the strong expression of le ( y ) antigen . 
expression of abh blood group antigens , ulex europaeus agglutinin i , and type iv collagen in the sinusoids of hepatocellular carcinoma . the expression of blood group antigens ( a , b , h , lewis ( a ) and lewis ( b ) ) , ulex europaeus agglutinin i ( uea-i ) , factor viii-related antigen , and type iv collagen on the sinusoids was examined immunohistochemically in 15 cases of hepatocellular carcinomas ( hcc ) , 11 cases of cirrhosis , 12 cases of chronic active hepatitis , and in a control sample of 16 normal livers . sinusoidal endothelial cells of hcc characteristically showed a diffuse and strong immunoreactivity to abh blood group antigens in the specimen with a comparable abo blood group . the sinusoidal endothelial cells were also diffusely and strongly positive for uea-i receptors . in contrast , in cirrhosis and chronic active hepatitis a few sinusoidal endothelial cells were positive for abh blood group antigens and uea-i receptors . in normal livers , only a few sinusoidal endothelial cells were positive for abh blood group antigens and uea-1 receptors . tests for factor viii-related antigen and lewis blood group antigens were almost negative on sinusoidal endothelial cells . although type iv collagen was distributed diffusely in the space of disse in these four groups , its expression was strongest in hcc . blood vessels of portal tracts and fibrous septa were positive for abh blood group antigens , uea-1 receptors , factor viii-related antigen , and type iv collagen , but negative for lewis blood group antigens . these findings suggest that some sinusoidal endothelial cells undergo " capillarization " in cirrhosis and chronic active hepatitis , and that the majority of sinusoidal endothelial cells of hcc have phenotypic characteristics of capillaries . 
null cell adenoma of the pituitary with features of plurihormonality and plurimorphous differentiation . the case of a 35-year-old man with pituitary macroadenoma who was complaining of reduced sexual activity is presented . histologic examination showed a chromophobic adenoma corresponding mainly to a null cell adenoma at the ultrastructural level . focal plurihormonality and plurimorphous differentiation of adenoma cells were demonstrated by immunohistochemical and electron-microscopic studies . it is suggested that adenomatous null cells represent pluripotent progenitor cells capable of transforming to different hormone-producing cell types . the factors accounting for differentiating to various cell populations have yet to be elucidated . 
pleomorphic ( anaplastic ) neuroblastoma in nude mice . two pleomorphic ( anaplastic ) neuroblastomas , from two children aged 1 and 6 years , were transplanted into nude mice . two noteworthy observations were made . in one case , the transplanted tumor gave rise to a soft-tissue sarcoma . moreover , in both cases hepatic metastases were associated with a striking modification of murine hepatocytes , resulting in hyperchromatic and dysplastic nuclei . the latter finding was particularly evident in the hepatic areas surrounding all metastases of pleomorphic ( anaplastic ) neuroblastoma cells . 
glomus tumor of the coccyx . a curable cause of coccygodynia . a 30-year-old woman presented with recurrent severe coccygodynia . she underwent exploration for a possible pilonidal sinus and was found to have a precoccygeal glomus tumor that also involved bony trabeculae of the coccyx . to our knowledge , a glomus tumor involving the coccygeal bone has not been previously documented . in view of the relief of this patient 's pain following the surgical excision of coccyx and tumor , a causal role is suggested . 
malignant mixed tumor ( malignant ameloblastoma and fibrosarcoma ) of the maxilla . we present a rare case of carcinosarcoma ( malignant ameloblastoma and fibrosarcoma ) of the left maxilla that developed in a 63-year-old japanese man . the tumor recurred repeatedly despite multiple surgical removals , radiotherapy , and chemotherapy and led to progressive cachexia ; the patient died after 3.8 years of hospitalization . histopathologic examination revealed that the recurrent tumor was carcinosarcoma , which had progressed from malignant ameloblastoma with fibroma . an autopsy confirmed the diagnosis of malignant mixed tumor with lung metastasis of malignant ameloblastoma and fibrosarcoma . 
bone marrow necrosis in leukemic-phase follicular lymphoma . bone marrow necrosis has been regarded as a rare entity in specimens obtained from living patients and has been associated with a poor prognosis . it is most commonly found in patients with neoplastic disorders , severe infections , and sickle cell anemia . we present an unusual case of a small-cleaved type follicular lymphoma associated with bone marrow necrosis and a leukemic phase occurring in a 55-year-old woman . specimens were studied by morphologic , immunohistochemical , cytogenetic , and dna hybridization techniques . 
aspergillus terreus endophthalmitis in a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia . a 65-year-old woman with a 7-year history of chronic lymphocytic leukemia presented with acute visual loss , pain , and redness in her right eye . results of stains and cultures of anterior chamber fluid were negative . neurologic problems , bronchopulmonary pneumonia , recurrent skin lesions , and a low-grade fever developed . progressive respiratory distress ensued , and the patient died 1 month after presentation . cultures from antemortem sputum and skin samples were positive for aspergillus terreus . postmortem histologic results showed extensive a terreus invasion of the posterior vitreous , retina , choroid , and anterior optic nerve . this organism was also found in histologic sections from the right adrenal gland , left kidney , thyroid , urinary bladder , right lung , skin , esophagus , sputum , vessels of the myocardium , and brain . to our knowledge , a terreus endophthalmitis has not been reported previously . 
response by women aged 65-79 to invitation for screening for breast cancer by mammography : a pilot study [ published erratum appears in bmj 1991 jul 27 ; 303 ( 6796 ) :234 ] objective -- to determine whether there is sufficient benefit to be gained by offering screening for breast cancer with mammography to women aged 65-79 , who are not normally invited for screening . design -- pilot study of women eligible for screening but not for personal invitation . the results of this study were compared with the results of routinely screened younger women ( aged 50-64 ) from the same general practice . setting -- one group general practice in south manchester . patients -- the 631 women aged 65-79 on the practice list . a total of 42 ( 7 % ) were excluded by the general practitioner , and 22 ( 4 % ) invitation letters were returned by the post office . main outcome measures -- response rates to invitation for screening assessed by three indices : crude population coverage ratio , crude invited population coverage ratio , and corrected invited population coverage ratio . results -- 344 patients aged 65-79 ( 61 % of those invited , excluding those who could not be traced ) were screened compared with 77 % of women aged 50-64 . the three response indices were higher for younger women than older : crude population coverage ratio = 66.5 % , crude invited population coverage ratio = 69.3 % , corrected invited population coverage ratio = 76.8 % for women aged 50-64 , compared with 54.5 % , 58.4 % , and 60.7 % respectively for women aged 65-79 . all four biopsies done in the older women gave positive results , giving a cancer detection rate of 11.6 / 1000 compared with 4.1 / 1000 among younger women . conclusions -- these results show that there is a potential for high attendance at routine screening by older women if they are invited in the same way as younger women . if these results are found elsewhere the costs and benefits of screening older women should be reassessed . 
the use of cytochemical procedures in the diagnosis and management of acute and chronic myeloid leukemia . the use of wright-giemsa-stained smears alone for the classification of acute leukemias often proves unsatisfactory . some cases of m1 , m5a , m7 , and l2 are morphologically similar . in such cases , cytochemical stains can provide an inexpensive and available diagnostic tool . m1 is positive for sbb and mpo . m5a is usually nse positive , whereas sbb and mpo are negative . m7 usually is ana esterase , pas , and ap reactive , and do not stain with sbb , mpo , and anb esterases . the megakaryocytic lineage usually is confirmed by ultrastructural cytochemistry for ppo or immunocytochemistry for platelet glycoproteins and von willebrand factor . pas block positivity and ap dotlike reactivity are suggestive of lymphoid lineage . nse stains are useful in differentiating m2 from m4 . morphologic and cytochemical techniques also can suggest the presence of certain chromosomal abnormalities such as t ( 8 ; 21 ) and inv ( 16 ) , which may have an influence on prognosis . because not all cases of acute leukemia are easily subtyped by morphology and cytochemistry , immunophenotyping , karyotyping , and molecular analysis of dna and rna of leukemia cells also may be required to define cell lineage . 
leukemias of indeterminant lineage . two biologically and clinically important forms of acute leukemia have been described . evidence suggests that both undifferentiated acute leukemia and many types of hybrid leukemia arise from relatively fewer differentiated cells than do the more straightforward acute leukemias . clinical correlations suggest that patients with these leukemias may have a poorer prognosis , although some findings may be associated with an improved prognosis . more data in which multiple techniques are applied to the same leukemic cells are clearly needed . patients with certain types of hybrid leukemias may be suitable candidates for more aggressive forms of chemotherapy or , possibly , combinations of therapy directed at cells of both lineages . 
the role of ras gene mutations in myeloproliferative disorders . mutations in the ras genes frequently are found in myeloproliferative disorders . these abnormalities have prognostic significance in the myelodysplastic syndromes , but their clinical importance in other hematopathic states remains unclear . the study of this gene in leukemic conditions is providing insights into the genetic pathways leading to leukemic progression . 
systems used to study the nature of the leukemic cell and predict treatment outcome in patients with myeloproliferative disorders . cell culture techniques have been used to study normal and leukemic hematopoiesis . investigations provided data on the nature of the clonogenic leukemic cell , its patterns of in vitro growth , role of stimulating factors , and effects of chemotherapeutic agents . assay systems developed to study leukemic progenitor cells or self-renewal capacity have been useful clinically as predictive indicators of success of remission-induction therapy and have allowed testing of drug sensitivity in vitro . alternative approaches using short - and long-term suspension cultures have provided systems to evaluate leukemic cells , including nonclonogenic , biochemical , and kinetic events . in vitro systems have been introduced to measure cell cycle events accurately and to identify metabolic mechanisms of drug resistance . the information provided by all of these systems has allowed a more comprehensive and multifocal characterization of the nature of the leukemic process and has better directed our approach to treatment . 
myeloproliferative disorders . classification and diagnostic features with special emphasis on chronic myelogenous leukemia and agnogenic myeloid metaplasia . leukocytosis , mild anemia , thrombocytosis , and panhyperplasia in the marrow characterize the early stages of most of the cmpd , whereas extramedullary hematopoiesis ( such as in the spleen or liver ) , peripheral cytopenias ( anemia , leukopenia , or thrombocytopenia ) , and myelofibrosis , with or without osteosclerosis , reflect the changes seen in the later stages . transitions among the different cmpd and termination in acute leukemia or marrow failure also are common . cml often is characterized by leukocytosis and the presence of the entire spectrum of granulocytes ( mature and immature ) in the blood and marrow , reduced lap , hypercellularity with prominent granulocytic hyperplasia in the marrow , ph chromosome , and bcr-abl gene rearrangement . typical features of amm include leukoerythroblastosis , teardrop poikilocytosis , anemia , increased or normal lap , prominent megakaryocytic hyperplasia in the marrow , dyshematopoiesis , and hyperplastic or fibrotic/sclerotic marrow . 
molecular methods to detect the philadelphia chromosome . the ph1 chromosome has two molecular subtypes : a bcr-positive seen in cml and some cases of all , and the bcr-negative subtype mainly seen in all . in cml , because of the restriction of chromosome 22 breakpoints to the bcr , southern analysis to detect bcr rearrangements also can be used to detect the ph1 chromosome . in contrast , the translocation breakpoints on the ph1 chromosome are scattered in all , so that other methods such as pfge and pcr are necessary to detect the ph1 chromosome . in both cml and all , use of these methods to detect molecular abnormalities may be superior to cytogenetics in detecting chromosomal abnormalities . southern analysis also can be used in cml to map breakpoint locations within the bcr . this may offer prognostic information as to the length of chronic phase , but there is conflicting information as to the validity of this approach . the modified pcr ( using cdna from mrna ) can be used to detect the ph1 chromosome and to define which of the molecular subtypes are present . the exquisite sensitivity of this method , which is capable of detecting as little as a single abnormal molecule of rna or dna , makes it suited for the detection of minimal residual disease in both cml and all . this is particularly useful after intensive therapies , such as bone marrow transplantation . whether these low levels of fusion gene expression are of prognostic significance is still unclear . 
palliation of malignant esophageal obstruction . progressive dysphagia is common in patients with advanced esophageal carcinoma . multiple nonsurgical techniques are available to provide palliation and improved nutrition . simple dilatation is the oldest technique and newer methods may offer greater efficacy . laser therapy now provides an excellent opportunity to treat obstructing tumors . placement of an esophageal prosthesis may become particularly useful when dilatation must be performed too frequently or has become ineffective or in the patient with an esophageal-pulmonary fistula . newer techniques including bicap tumor probe , intracavitary radiotherapy , or absolute alcohol injection offer promise . this review discusses the advantages and disadvantages of these different palliative techniques for patients with the extremely poor prognosis associated with esophageal cancer . 
islet cell carcinoma of the pancreas presenting as bleeding from isolated gastric varices . report of a case and review of the literature . gastrointestinal hemorrhage from left-sided portal hypertension and gastric varices is an unusual presentation for islet cell carcinoma of the pancreas . islet cell tumors of the pancreas themselves are rare . they present in a variety of ways . those that elaborate functional hormones cause specific neuroendocrine syndromes . nonfunctional tumors characteristically present later with symptoms of metastatic disease or as a result of local enlargement . we present a case of islet cell carcinoma of the pancreas presenting with recurrent gastrointestinal bleeding from gastric varices and review the literature for this rare presentation . we emphasize the importance of a careful initial diagnostic work-up that may enable curative surgery . 
pancreatic ascites presenting in infancy , with review of the literature . we report a 4-month-old boy with massive ascites in whom a diagnosis of pancreatitis was made on a raised ascitic amylase level after two inconclusive laparotomies . he developed a pseudocyst which was managed with repeated percutaneous needle aspirations , nutrition being maintained intravenously . endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography ( ercp ) demonstrated a congenital intra-pancreatic cyst . he thrived after operation drainage for recurrent pseudocyst , but repeat ercp shows that the cyst in the head of the pancreas remains . pancreatic ascites is rare in children and diagnosis is frequently delayed . a third of reported cases in childhood present in the first year of life . a search for the underlying cause should include an ercp to demonstrate abnormalities of the pancreaticobiliary ducts . 
significance of anti-hbx antibodies in hepatitis b virus infection . serological responses to hepatitis b virus-x determinants have been noted in human sera , but conflicting findings concerning the correlation of anti-hbx antibodies with different stages of hepatitis b virus infection or pathological sequelae have been reported . using an adenovirus-based eukaryotic vector , the 17 kd x protein was efficiently expressed in 293 cells . cellular extracts containing the eukaryotic x protein have been used to screen for anti-hbx antibodies by immunoblot analysis in a large panel of sera from patients affected by hepatitis b virus chronic hepatitis , hepatocellular carcinoma and acute viral hepatitis . sera from 32 of 171 ( 19 % ) chronic hepatitis b virus patients were positive for anti-hbx antibodies . only one of thirty-two ( 3 % ) hbsag-negative , anti-hbs/anti-hbc-positive chronic hepatitis serum was anti-hbx positive . very few sera from primary hepatocellular carcinoma patients showed positivity for anti-hbx ( 8 of 149 or 5 % ) . anti-hbx were also detected in 8 of 48 ( 17 % ) acute viral hepatitis patients . in the four cases that were followed up weekly , anti-hbx antibodies appeared 3 to 4 wk after the onset of the clinical signs . to compare the x protein expressed in eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells as a substrate for anti-hbx antibody detection , 171 sera were screened with hbx fusion proteins expressed in escherichia coli . the prokaryotic cell extract test seems to be more sensitive . during the chronic phase of hepatitis b virus infection , the presence of anti-hbx antibodies detected with the eukaryotic cell extract correlates with the presence of well-established markers of ongoing viral replication : serum hepatitis b virus-dna ( p less than 0.001 ) and intrahepatic hbcag expression ( p less than 0.001 ) . 
point mutation , allelic loss and increased methylation of c-ha-ras gene in human hepatocellular carcinoma . somatic alterations of the c-ha-ras gene were examined in 21 japanese patients with hepatocellular carcinoma . restriction endonuclease analysis by double digestion with mspi and hpaii revealed that dnas from two of 21 hepatocellular carcinoma tissues were affected by nucleotide substitution at the twelfth amino acid coding sequence of the c-ha-ras gene . dnas from cirrhotic noncancerous liver tissue , but not leukocytes , of one of these patients possessed the mutation , whereas dnas from noncirrhotic liver tissue and leukocytes of the other patient did not . in one of the nine patients harboring heterozygosity for c-ha-ras-related bamhi-fragments , the loss of one allele was demonstrated as a somatic change not only in dna from the tumor tissue but also in dna from the cirrhotic nontumorous tissue . in two of the 19 patients comparatively examined for digestion patterns of c-ha-ras locus with hpaii and mspi , extensive methylation was observed as a somatic modification in both dnas from the tumor and the cirrhotic nontumorous tissues . these results thus indicate that the genetic lesions affecting the c-ha-ras gene do occur in human hepatocellular carcinoma and probably serve as one of the multiple steps in the process of hepatic carcinogenesis . 
antibodies in anti-hbe-positive patient sera bind to an hbe protein expressed on the cell surface of human hepatoma cells : implications for virus clearance . the relevance of the recently described membrane-bound form of the hbe protein for the antiviral immune response was examined . the data show that antibodies in anti-hbe , but not in anti-hbc-positive human sera efficiently bind to the membrane expressed hbe . no evidence was obtained that the hbc can reach the cell surface in a form that can be detected with human antibodies . the findings suggest that the decline of virus titer that is usually observed after seroconversion from hbe to anti-hbe might be the result of an antibody-mediated elimination of infected cells . 
increased epidermal growth factor receptors in seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons of patients with the dysplastic nevus syndrome . seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons may change in biologic behavior with pregnancy or during treatment with sex steroids . because epidermal growth factor receptor localization may change in hyperproliferative skin diseases , we compared epidermal growth factor receptor immunolocalization in seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons from women who were or were not pregnant or taking oral sex steroid hormones . epidermal growth factor receptor was further investigated in growing and quiescent seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons from women with and without the dysplastic nevus syndrome . the epidermal growth factor receptor concentration was strikingly elevated in suprabasilar keratinocytes of growing seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons from patients with the dysplastic nevus syndrome who were pregnant or taking sex steroid hormones and less elevated in growing seborrheic keratoses from other patients . in contrast , the epidermal growth factor receptor distribution pattern in acrochordons did not correlate as well with the history of growth of these lesions in normal patients . these data suggest sex steroids may affect epidermal growth factor receptor metabolism in benign epidermal hyperproliferative lesions , particularly in patients with the dysplastic nevus syndrome . 
cyclosporine in the treatment of cutaneous t cell lymphoma . we present our observations on the use of cyclosporine in the treatment of three patients with mycosis fungoides and two patients with sezary syndrome . the patients with mycosis fungoides showed mild improvement of short duration . one patient with sezary syndrome had significant improvement during 2 years of treatment . it is unlikely that cyclosporine alone will be sufficient therapy for cutaneous t cell lymphoma . however , lower doses in conjunction with other immunomodulators may minimize potential side effects and lead to longer lasting clinical improvement . 
recreational sun exposure in puerto rico : trends and cancer risk awareness . persons who sunbathe or engage in other activities at the beach are exposed to large amounts of uv radiation . four hundred seven adults who visited the beaches of puerto rico were surveyed to determine their knowledge about the risks of sun exposure and to evaluate sunscreen use . the group consisted of 195 year-round puerto rican residents and 212 tourists . ninety-five percent believed that the sun can cause skin cancer , although only half of the subset who lived all year in puerto rico believed that they personally received enough exposure to be at risk . the majority of the group ( 83 % ) understood the meaning of the sun protection factor numbers , although 35 % used either nothing or a nonscreening oil . half of puerto rican residents rarely or never used sunscreen protection while sunbathing . when sunscreen was used , the most important factor sought was given as sun protection factor ( 64 % ) , followed by a perceived ability to aid in tanning ( 26 % ) . 
cutaneous angiolipoleiomyoma . we describe eight cases of cutaneous angiolipoleiomyoma , a rare tumor previously reported only once under the term cutaneous angiomyolipoma . clinically , the tumors were acquired , solitary , asymptomatic nodules that were always acral in location . patients ' ages ranged from 33 to 77 years ( median 52.6 years ) ; the male/female ratio was 7:1 . signs of tuberous sclerosis or renal angiomyolipoma were absent in all cases . histologically , the tumors were subcutaneous , well circumscribed , and composed of smooth muscle , vascular spaces , connective tissue , and mature fat . in some tumors the fat was the predominant component , and in others smooth muscle predominated . elastic tissue stains revealed that some blood vessels had developed an elastic lamina whereas other blood vessels lacked it . additional histologic features occasionally observed included vascular thrombi , glomus bodies , and focal mucin deposition . 
complete follow-up and evaluation of a skin cancer screening in connecticut . on may 21 , 1988 , 251 persons were screened for skin cancer in new haven , connecticut . a total body skin examination was performed on 98 % of the participants . on the basis of follow-up of 93 % of persons with positive screens for basal cell carcinoma , squamous cell carcinoma , or bowen 's disease , positive predictive values were 43 % for basal cell carcinoma , 14 % for squamous cell carcinoma , and 50 % for bowen 's disease . in the group with atypical nevi , a person with two or more clinically atypical nevi was 16 times more likely to have histologic confirmation than a person with a single clinically atypical nevus ( p = 0.003 ) . eighty persons were screened by both a dermatologist and a dermatology nurse ; the crude agreement rate for actinic keratoses was 0.62 ; for atypical nevi , 0.53 ; and for bcc , 0.88 . both nurses and physicians overdiagnosed in the screening setting , the nurses more so than the physicians . of the 128 persons screened who were advised to seek medical follow-up , 16 did not do so despite several reminders ; their reasons are discussed . 
the risk of developing subsequent nonmelanoma skin cancers . data from the southeast arizona skin cancer registry collected during 1985 through june 1988 were used in this study . patients who had a nonmelanoma skin cancer ( basal cell or squamous cell carcinoma ) removed in 1985 were observed until subsequent nonmelanoma skin cancers developed or until june 30 , 1988 . twelve categories of nonmelanoma skin cancers were developed on the basis of the type of first nonmelanoma skin cancer and type of second , third , and fourth nonmelanoma skin cancers . analyses showed the highest risk of a subsequent nonmelanoma skin cancer developing was within 1 year ( 36.39 % ) , the rate of developing another nonmelanoma skin cancer depended on type ( squamous cell carcinoma , 100 % ; basal cell carcinoma , 44.23 % to 83.65 % ) , and total risk decreased during the 1277 days of the study . 
histologic pattern analysis of basal cell carcinoma . study of a series of 1039 consecutive neoplasms . this study attempts to define histologic patterns in 1039 consecutive cases of basal cell carcinoma and to correlate these patterns with adequacy of margins of surgical excision . five major histologic patterns were identified : nodular , 218 cases ( 21 % ) ; superficial , 181 cases ( 17 % ) ; micronodular , 151 cases ( 15 % ) ; infiltrative , 77 cases ( 7 % ) ; and morpheic , 11 cases ( 1 % ) . a mixed pattern ( two or more major histologic patterns ) was present in 401 cases ( 38.5 % ) . our study indicates that nodular and superficial basal cell carcinomas can be completely removed by simple surgical excision in a high percentage of cases ( 93.6 % and 96.4 % , respectively ) whereas the micronodular , infiltrative , and morpheic basal cell carcinomas have a higher incidence of positive tumor margins ( 18.6 % , 26.5 % , and 33.3 % , respectively ) after excision . mixed patterns that consisted of combinations of the nodular , micronodular , or infiltrative types exhibited a behavior similar to the pattern that resulted in a greater chance of incomplete surgical removal . 
treatment of port-wine stains during childhood with the flashlamp-pumped pulsed dye laser . seventy-three patients between the ages of 3 months to 14 years ( average age 6 years 2 months ) with port-wine stains were treated with the flashlamp-pumped pulsed dye laser . more than 75 % lightening was achieved with an average of 2.5 treatments in 33 patients ( 45 % ) , 50 % to 74 % lightening after an average of 1.7 treatments in 31 ( 42 % ) , 26 % to 49 % lightening after 2 treatments in 5 ( 7 % ) , and less than 25 % lightening after 1 treatment in 4 ( 5 % ) . the overall average lightening after one treatment was 53 % . the percentage of lightening increased as the number of treatments increased . three patients had 100 % clearance of the port-wine stain . patients aged between 3 months and 6 years ( 44 patients ) had a better response after the first treatment ( 55 % lightening ) than did patients aged between 7 and 14 years ( 29 patients with a 48 % lightening ; p = 0.027 ) . complications included cutaneous depressions in four patients , hyperpigmentation in 16 patients , and hypopigmentation in three patients . all complications were transient and disappeared completely . 
induction of dna fragmentation in chronic b-lymphocytic leukemia cells . chronic lymphocytic leukemia of b cell type ( b-cll ) is a neoplastic disorder characterized by the accumulation of small resting lymphocytes in the periphery . the phenotype of these cells suggests that they are " frozen " at an early stage of maturation . glucocorticoid hormones are commonly used to treat patients with b-cll , resulting in a reduction in the peripheral lymphocyte count by an undefined mechanism . here we report that glucocorticoids stimulate dna fragmentation characteristic of a suicide process known as apoptosis or programmed cell death ( pcd ) in suspensions of cells from patients with b-cll . the effects can be mimicked by ca2 + ionophore and involve a sustained increase in the cytosolic ca2 + concentration . specific antibodies binding to membrane-associated igm on the leukemic cells can also induce pcd by a similar mechanism . phorbol esters block dna fragmentation and cell killing in response to all of the agents , suggesting that activation of protein kinase c desensitizes the cells to pcd . targeting the b-cll cells with antibodies that induce an unbalanced , sustained ca2 + increase may therefore represent a rational strategy for the destruction of leukemic cells . 
transforming growth factor-beta-induced inhibition of t cell function . susceptibility difference in t cells of various phenotypes and functions and its relevance to immunosuppression in the tumor-bearing state . the present study investigates the nature of humoral component ( s ) generated in tumor-bearing hosts to induce immune dysfunction of t cells . cell-free ascitic fluid and culture supernatant ( sn ) were obtained from the ascites and cultures allowing mh134 hepatoma cells to grow . these ascites and sn samples were tested for their abilities to influence the generation of ctl responses to tnp and alloantigens . the generation of the anti-tnp ctl responses that require self h-2-restricted cd4 + th cells was markedly suppressed by addition of the ascites or sn under conditions in which these samples did not inhibit anti-allo ctl responses capable of using alternate pathways of allo-restricted cd4 + and cd8 + th . the activation of cd8 + ctl precursors and ctl activity were also resistant to the ascites or sn . the ascites - or sn-induced suppressive effect to which cd4 + th were most susceptible was found to be mediated by transforming growth factor-beta ( tgf-beta ) activity , because : 1 ) the tgf-beta activity was detected in the mh134 ascites and culture sn ; 2 ) the suppression of cd4 + th function required for anti-tnp ctl responses was almost completely prevented by addition of anti-tgf-beta antibody to cultures and ; 3 ) rtgf-beta also induced similar patterns of immunosuppression to those observed by ascites or sn . these results indicate that tgf-beta produced by tumor cells induces deleterious effects on t cell , especially on the cd4 + th subset , and provide an explanation for the molecular mechanism underlying the previously observed cd4 + th-selective suppression in the tumor-bearing state . 
expression of vhiii-associated cross-reactive idiotype on human b lymphocytes . association with staphylococcal protein a binding and staphylococcus aureus cowan i stimulation . it has been demonstrated that staphylococcal protein a ( spa ) has an " alternative " binding site with specificity for human ig h chain v region of the vhiii subgroup . because the major mitogenic component of staphylococcus aureus cowan i ( sac ) is spa , it is possible that sac stimulates a subpopulation of b cells expressing ig of the vhiii h chain subgroup . in the present study , we have investigated further the relationship between spa binding and the expression of vhi - or vhiii-associated cross-reactive idiotype ( cri ) on the surface of tonsillar b lymphocytes enriched for the expression or nonexpression of the cri , and we examined the ig secreted by cell lines established from these populations of b cells by ebv transformation . the vhiii cri ( d12 ) - enriched population yielded 21 cell lines , with 67 % of them secreting spa-reactive ig ; in contrast , only 6 % ( 1 of 16 ) of vhi cri-expressing lines secreted spa-reactive ig . the cri-negative b cell population yielded 54 cell lines , of which 20 % secreted spa-reactive ig , as might be anticipated because a majority of vhiii ig + b cells will be cri - . sac stimulation of cri + and cri - populations showed preferential stimulation of the d12 population . these data support the proposal that sac stimulation of human b cells is mediated through binding of spa by its alternative binding site to igv regions of the vhiii subgroup . 
intraperitoneal cisplatin and cytarabine in the treatment of refractory or recurrent ovarian carcinoma preclinical evaluation has suggested impressive concentration-dependent cytotoxic synergy between cisplatin and cytarabine in ovarian carcinoma . to further evaluate the clinical relevance of these observations , 39 patients with refractory or recurrent ovarian carcinoma were entered onto a phase ii trial of intraperitoneal ( ip ) cisplatin ( 100 to 105 mg/m2 per course ) plus cytarabine ( 600 to 900 mg per course ) . treatment was administered over 2 or 3 days for a maximum of five monthly courses , followed by surgical reevaluation in patients without clinical evidence of disease . the 3-day regimen was discontinued secondary to the development of severe thrombocytopenia ( five of 12 courses platelets decreased to less than 50,000 / mm3 ) . additional toxicities included abdominal pain ( moderate to severe at some time during therapy in 46 % of patients ) , fever without evidence of infection ( 44 % ) , and bacterial peritonitis ( 10 % ) . three patients declined surgical reassessment . fourteen of 36 ( 39 % ; 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 23 % to 55 % ) assessable patients demonstrated surgically defined responses , including 12 of 23 ( 52 % ; 95 % ci , 32 % to 72 % ) patients with tumor nodules less than 1 cm in diameter and only two of 13 ( 15 % ; 95 % ci , 0 % to 34 % ) patients with any lesion greater than 1 cm . there were seven ( 30 % ; 95 % ci , 11 % to 49 % ) surgically defined complete responses ( crs ) in patients with less than 1 cm disease and none in patients with larger tumor nodules . ip cisplatin/cytarabine results in a high surgically defined response rate in patients with minimal residual ovarian carcinoma , but activity is low in patients with bulky intraabdominal disease . 
prognostic variables in patients with diffuse large-cell lymphoma treated with macop-b . one hundred twenty-six patients with diffuse large-cell lymphoma were treated with methotrexate with leucovorin , doxorubicin , cyclophosphamide , vincristine , prednisone , and bleomycin ( macop-b ) between april 1981 and june 1986 . univariate and multivariate analyses were performed using overall survival as of september 1989 as the end point . four independent negative predictors of survival were identified : presence of b symptoms ; more than two involved lymph node sites ; more than one extranodal site ( variables related to tumor burden ) , and age older than 60 , a variable related to the patient 's ability to tolerate treatment . each variable contributed the same relative risk of dying and , accordingly , this simple predictive formula was developed empirically : ( 4-n ) x 30 = the approximate percentage of chance of survival at 5 years . " n " is the number of predictive variables present . the same four predictors were also found to be significant by multivariate analysis when only those patients achieving a complete response were analyzed . 
discordant bone marrow involvement in diffuse large-cell lymphoma : a distinct clinical-pathologic entity associated with a continuous risk of relapse . from 1975 to 1988 , 50 patients with lymph node biopsy-documented diffuse large-cell lymphoma ( dlcl ) presented with bone marrow involvement . twenty-four patients ( 48 % ) had large-cell lymphoma ( lcl ) in the bone marrow and were compared with 19 ( 38 % ) patients who had small cleaved-cell lymphoma ( sccl ) in the marrow . additionally , seven patients ( 14 % ) had mixed small - and large-cell lymphoma ( ml ) in the marrow . patients who had lcl marrow involvement were younger ( p less than .02 ) and more frequently had elevated lactic dehydrogenase ( ldh ) levels ( p less than .001 ) , high tumor burden ( p less than .01 ) , and more sites of extranodal disease ( p less than .05 ) than those with sccl in the marrow . the complete response ( cr ) rate to multiagent chemotherapy was 16.7 % in the lcl group and 89.4 % in the sccl group ( p less than .001 ) . one third of the patients with lcl in the marrow developed cns involvement , compared with only one patient in the sccl group ( p = .06 ) . overall 5-year survival was 79 % in patients with sccl marrow involvement , compared with only 12 % in patients with lcl in the marrow ( p = .002 ) . despite a high cr rate , patients with marrow involved by sccl were at a high continuous risk of relapse with only a 30 % failure-free survival at 5 years . we conclude that bone marrow involvement with lcl predicts for extremely poor prognosis with low response rate and short survival . patients with sccl in the bone marrow have a high rate of cr and a high rate of 5-year survival ; however , there is a high risk of late relapse , and only 15 % are in a continuous remission at 8 years . 
a comparison of induction and maintenance therapy for acute nonlymphocytic leukemia in childhood : results of a pediatric oncology group study . two hundred fifty-six children with previously untreated acute nonlymphocytic leukemia ( anll ) were evaluated on a pediatric oncology group ( pog ) phase iii randomized trial of both induction and continuation chemotherapies . induction therapy compared vincristine , cytarabine , and dexamethasone ( vadx ) with daunorubicin , cytarabine , and thioguanine ( dat ) . the complete remission ( cr ) rate using dat was superior ( 82 % v 61 % , p = .02 ) . postremission therapy consisted of either " standard " two-cycle therapy or a more intensive four-cycle regimen given for 2 years . overall , there was no difference in outcome for patients randomized to either continuation regimen . the overall complete continuous remission rate ( ccr ) for the " best " induction/continuation therapy combination at 2 years was .50 ( se = .06 ) , at 3 years was .35 ( .04 ) , and at 4 years was .34 ( .05 ) . analysis of selected clinical and laboratory parameters demonstrated differences in induction responses favoring dat induction but did not impact eventual disease-free survival . there were two subgroups of patients who responded better to four-cycle continuation therapy . these were patients with french-american-british ( fab ) m1/m2 ( 2-year ccr was .20 v .44 , p = .01 ) and patients older than 10 years at diagnosis ( .32 v .62 , p = .004 ) . 
influence of chemotherapy administration on monocyte activation by liposomal muramyl tripeptide phosphatidylethanolamine in children with osteosarcoma . the purpose of these studies was to determine whether chemotherapy interfered with the ability of peripheral blood monocytes from patients with osteosarcoma to respond to the liposome-encapsulated activating agent muramyl tripeptide phosphatidylethanolamine ( l-mtp-pe ) . this was done in preparation of designing an adjuvant therapy protocol that includes l-mtp-pe combined with chemotherapy postoperatively for the treatment of primary osteosarcoma . the majority of patients who fail current adjuvant chemotherapy do so while on chemotherapy . therefore , we believe it is important to combine l-mtp-pe with chemotherapy early in the treatment course rather than waiting until all chemotherapy cycles are completed . the tumoricidal properties of monocytes from patients with osteosarcoma could be activated by l-mtp-pe to levels equal to or greater than those expressed by normal control monocytes . no intrinsic monocyte defect could be demonstrated . single-agent chemotherapy consisting of cisplatin ( cpd ) , high-dose methotrexate ( mtx ) , cytoxan ( ctx , cyclophosphamide ; bristol-myers co , evansville , in ) , or adriamycin ( adr , doxorubicin ; adria laboratories , columbus , oh ) did not interfere with this activation process . there was even a suggestion of enhanced activation potential following the administration of adr . however , when both adr and ctx were administered together on the same day , profound suppression in monocyte activation was observed . this suppressed function returned to normal by 3 weeks postcombination therapy . we therefore conclude that l-mtp-pe can be combined with adr , cpd , mtx , or ctx as single agents but recommend that adr plus l-mtp-pe is the most effective combination . by contrast , we discourage the use of l-mtp-pe when adr and ctx are given together . 
venous and arterial thrombosis in patients who received adjuvant therapy for breast cancer . the records of 2,673 patients randomized according to seven consecutive eastern cooperative oncology group ( ecog ) studies of adjuvant therapy for breast cancer were reviewed for the occurrence of vascular complications . all protocols opened and closed between june 1977 and july 1987 . the objectives of the present study were ( 1 ) to compare the frequency of vascular complications among patients who received adjuvant therapy for breast cancer with patients on observation , and ( 2 ) to estimate the contribution of chemotherapy and hormonal therapy to the occurrence of venous and arterial thrombi . the frequency of thrombosis , both venous and arterial combined , was 5.4 % among patients who received adjuvant therapy and was 1.6 % among patients on observation ( p = .0002 ) . premenopausal patients who received chemotherapy and tamoxifen had significantly more venous complications than those who received chemotherapy without tamoxifen ( 2.8 % v 0.8 % , p = .03 ) . postmenopausal patients who received tamoxifen and chemotherapy had significantly more venous thrombi than those who received tamoxifen alone ( 8.0 % v 2.3 % , p = .03 ) or those who were observed ( 8.0 % v 0.4 % , p less than .0001 ) . premenopausal patients who received tamoxifen and chemotherapy had a 1.6 % frequency of arterial thrombosis , significantly more than patients who received chemotherapy alone ( 1.6 % v 0.0 % , p = .004 ) . the frequency of arterial thrombosis among postmenopausal patients was not significantly correlated with adjuvant therapy . in conclusion , patients who received adjuvant therapy for breast cancer had a 5.4 % frequency of thromboembolic complications , significantly more than those who were observed . the combination of chemotherapy and tamoxifen was associated with more venous and arterial thromboembolic complications than chemotherapy alone in premenopausal patients and with more venous thrombi than tamoxifen alone among postmenopausal patients . 
epirubicin at two dose levels with prednisolone as treatment for advanced breast cancer : the results of a randomized trial . two hundred eleven patients with advanced breast cancer were randomized to receive either epirubicin ( e ) 50 mg/m2 and prednisolone ( lep ) or e 100 mg/m2 and prednisolone ( hep ) . the intended treatment consisted of 16 courses of lep or eight courses of hep given at 3-weekly intervals . reasons for stopping treatment early included progressive disease , stable disease without symptomatic improvement , or severe toxicity deemed intolerable by either the patient or physician . toxicity was recorded at 3-weekly and response at 9-weekly intervals using the world health organization ( who ) criteria of response and toxicity . two hundred nine patients were eligible for analysis , 98 % of whom have been followed for more than a year . one hundred four patients received lep and 105 hep . significantly worse myelosuppression , alopecia , nausea and vomiting , and mucositis were seen in the high-dose arm ( p less than or equal to .001 ) . more patients in the lep arm stopped treatment before the fourth course than in the hep arm , and the commonest reason for stopping was progressive disease . a similar median number of courses was given in each arm . there was a significantly higher response in the hep arm ( hep - complete response [ cr ] + partial response [ pr ] = 41 % , lep - cr + pr = 23 % ) . despite this , no statistically significant differences was seen in overall survival or progression-free interval . the median survival for hep and lep was 44 and 46 weeks , respectively . 
a prospective randomized trial comparing epirubicin monochemotherapy to two fluorouracil , cyclophosphamide , and epirubicin regimens differing in epirubicin dose in advanced breast cancer patients . the french epirubicin study group the french epirubicin study group carried out a randomized trial comparing epirubicin alone 75 mg/m2 with fluorouracil ( 5fu ) 500 mg/m2 , cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2 , and epirubicin 50 mg/m2 ( fec 50 ) and 5fu 500 mg/m2 , cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2 , and epirubicin 75 mg/m2 ( fec 75 ) as first treatment for advanced breast cancer patients . patients were stratified according to whether or not there were bone metastases only . four hundred twelve patients entered this trial ; 378 were assessable for tolerability and 365 for efficacy . the overall response rates were comparable between fec 50 ( 44.6 % ) and fec 75 ( 44.7 % ) , but both were better than the epirubicin alone ( 30.6 % ) ( p = .04 and p = .0006 , respectively ) . the complete response rate was better in fec 75 ( 15.5 % ) than in fec 50 ( 7 % ) ( p = .025 ) or epirubicin ( 4 % ) ( p = .002 ) . similar results were obtained in the group of patients without bone-only metastases . no difference in the three treatments was observed in the patients with bone metastases only . mean durations of response were similar in the three groups , being 412 days , 440 days , and 350 days for fec 50 , fec 75 , and epirubicin , respectively . patients without previous adjuvant chemotherapy fared better than those with previous treatment ( without anthracyclines ) . tolerability was fair in the three groups . overall , the epirubicin-alone group showed better tolerance than the two other groups , which did not differ significantly . time to progression and survival were not different among the three groups , but more early relapses occurred in the epirubicin and fec 50 groups ; survival seemed to be better during the first 8 months in the fec 75 group , and the survival difference between the epirubicin group and the fec 75 group was of borderline significance . no difference in survival was observed between epirubicin - and fec 50-group patients , even though the response rate was significantly worse in the monochemotherapy group . 
intrapleural cisplatin and cytarabine in the management of malignant pleural effusions : a lung cancer study group trial . malignant pleural effusions are a common and significant problem in patients with advanced malignancies . pleurodesis with tetracycline or other sclerosing agents is the usual treatment for malignant pleural effusions . in contrast to this approach , intrapleural chemotherapy has the potential advantage of treating the underlying malignancy in addition to controlling the effusion . intracavitary cisplatin-based chemotherapy , which is cytotoxic rather than sclerosing , has proven safe and effective via the intraperitoneal route in ovarian cancer and malignant mesothelioma . there has been little previous experience , however , with intrapleural cisplatin-based chemotherapy . as part of a planned series of trials in malignant mesothelioma , the lung cancer study group first evaluated intrapleural cisplatin and cytarabine in patients with malignant pleural effusions from a variety of solid tumors . from april 1986 to november 1987 , 46 patients with cytologically proven , symptomatic , and previously untreated malignant pleural effusions were entered on study . a single dose of cisplatin 100 mg/m2 plus cytarabine 1,200 mg was instilled into the pleural space via a chest tube , which was then immediately removed . patients were evaluated for toxicity and response at 24 hours ; 1 , 2 , and 3 weeks ; and then monthly . no recurrence of the effusion was considered a complete response ( cr ) . partial response ( pr ) was defined as a 75 % or greater decrease in the amount of the effusion on serial chest radiographs . one patient experienced reversible grade 4 renal toxicity , four patients had grade 3 hematologic toxicity , and five patients had grade 3 cardiopulmonary toxicity . the overall response rate ( cr plus pr ) at 3 weeks was 49 % ( 18 of 37 patients ) . the median length of response was 9 months for a cr and 5.1 months for a pr . the outcome of this trial was sufficiently encouraging that this regimen has been incorporated into subsequent trials for malignant pleural mesothelioma . 
when is a prognostic factor useful ? a guide for the perplexed . traditionally , a number of variables have been used to predict outcome in patients with early-stage breast cancer . these tests are simple to perform and relatively inexpensive . recently , a number of new factors , eg , tumor proliferative index , nuclear dna content , and amplification or overexpression of growth-promoting genes or oncogenes have been identified as potential predictors of outcome in patients with breast cancer . there is now increasing pressure to introduce such tests into routine clinical practice . how does a clinical practitioner identify which test , or group of tests , best predicts adverse outcome and whether any more clinically useful information is provided than with the use of more traditional factors alone ? the aim of a prognostic test in breast cancer is to predict which patients are destined to develop a recurrence of cancer and those who are not . the prognostic usefulness of a test can be expressed in terms of relative risk ( rr ) , which is the ratio of the risk of breast cancer recurrence in patients who test positive to the risk in those who test negative . methodologic guidelines that should be satisfied by a study evaluating the predictive ability of a test include the following : ( 1 ) was an inception cohort assembled ? ( 2 ) was the referral pattern described ? ( 3 ) were laboratory and clinical outcomes assessed in a blinded fashion ? ( 4 ) was complete follow-up achieved ? ( 5 ) was adjustment for extraneous prognostic factors carried out ? ( 6 ) were appropriate statistical methods used ? an approach is suggested to help the clinician choose the test , or combination of tests , likely to discriminate between " high - " and " low-risk " patients in his/her own practice . the decision regarding what particular threshold value ( risk ) defined by a prognostic test ( or series of tests ) warrants adjuvant therapy for an individual patient is a complex one but should be based on a clear presentation of the risks and benefits to the patient . 
endoscopic ventricular fenestration using a " saline torch " . the fiberoptic endoscope has never gained popularity among neurosurgeons although it is ideally suited for navigating within the cerebral ventricles . recent advances in optics and miniaturization make the application of endoscopy in neurosurgery more practical . the authors report eight children who underwent ventriculoscopic fenestration of symptomatic loculated cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) collections . these csf collections were either isolated ventricular cysts or trapped lateral ventricles secondary to obstruction at the foramen of monro . cyst wall dissection was carried out with a " saline torch " dissector which was introduced through a working channel in the ventriculoscope . the torch was used to coagulate vessels and to sculpt large windows in cyst walls or in the septum pellucidum . ventriculoscope-guided cyst fenestration can be performed safely and easily under direct vision . the technique may permit simplification of shunt systems in some patients and elimination of shunts in others . 
intracranial arachnoid cysts in children . a comparison of the effects of fenestration and shunting . the best operative intervention for children with arachnoid cysts remains the subject of controversy . recent reports stress that craniotomy for cyst fenestration is associated with a low incidence of morbidity and mortality and may leave the child shunt-independent . the cases of 40 pediatric patients with arachnoid cysts treated between 1978 and 1989 are reported . five children with mild symptoms and small cysts that remained stable on follow-up studies have not required surgical intervention . of 15 patients with cysts initially treated by fenestration , 10 ( 67 % ) showed no clinical or radiographic improvement postoperatively and have undergone cyst-peritoneal ( eight patients ) or ventriculoperitoneal ( vp ) shunting ( one patient ) , or revision of a vp shunt placed for hydrocephalus before cyst fenestration ( one patient ) . two other patients with existing vp shunts required no further procedures . thus , only three ( 20 % ) of 15 patients initially treated by fenestration remain shunt-independent after a median follow-up period of 8 years . the 20 other patients were initially treated by cysts shunting and all improved postoperatively ; shunt revision has been necessary in six ( 30 % ) of these 20 patients because of cysts recurrence . cyst location influenced the success of shunt treatment ; none of the seven middle cranial fossa cysts treated by shunting have required revision , but results with cysts in other locations were less favorable . in all locations , though , shunting was more successful than fenestration . it is concluded that cyst-peritoneal or cyst-vp shunting is the procedure of choice for arachnoid cysts in most locations , including those in the middle cranial fossa . 
multiple adenomas of the human pituitary . a retrospective autopsy study with clinical implications . in a review of autopsy material from two centers , 20 pituitary glands were found containing multiple adenomas . in total , 44 adenomas were identified histologically ; 16 glands contained double tumors and in four glands triple adenomas were found . size was measured in 30 tumors , all of which were microadenomas . thirty-four adenomas were located in the lateral wings and 10 lay in the median wedge . forty-one tumors were chromophobic and three were basophilic . immunocytochemical analysis of the 44 tumors demonstrated the presence of prolactin in 11 , adrenocorticotropic hormone in three , growth hormone in one , and alpha-subunit as well as follicle-stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone in one . of the 20 patients studied , there were 11 men and nine women , with an average age of 69 years . all patients died from various nonendocrine causes . with the exception of one patient who appeared mildly acromegalic , no correlation was observed between pituitary morphology and clinical data . this study found a 10.4 % frequency of adenomas in pituitaries studied randomly at autopsy . multiple tumors were encountered in 0.9 % of cases . despite its low frequency , adenoma multiplicity may underlie surgical failure in cases in which one adenoma is removed and the other is left behind . 
an epithelial cyst in the cerebellopontine angle . case report . a case of a benign epithelial cyst in the posterior cranial fossa is described . it had the unique histological feature of a double-layered cuboidal epithelial lining . detailed immunohistochemical and electron microscopic studies supported an endodermal origin . the differential diagnosis and the histogenesis of epithelial cysts in the central nervous system are discussed . 
accessory arm -- dysraphism or disparity ? case report . the case of a 3-month-old infant with an accessory third arm is reported . the extra appendage was attached at the midcervical region and was associated with posterior cervical dysraphism and a cervical cord lipoma . possible theories of origin are examined . 
l-methionine uptake by human cerebral cortex : maturation from infancy to old age age-associated changes in amino acid transport from blood to normal frontal cortex were studied using positron emission tomography ( pet ) . seventeen patients , 1.8-71 yr , were injected intravenously with tracer doses of [ 11c ] l-methionine and a baseline pet scan was obtained . to assess competitive inhibition of [ 11c ] l-methionine uptake , patients received either oral l-phenylalanine or an i.v. infusion of amino acids 1 hr before a second pet study . uptake of [ 11c ] l-methionine by frontal cortex decreased seven-fold between 1.8 and 71 yr ( r = -0.71 ; p less than 0.05 ) . blood-to-brain transfer of [ 11c ] l-methionine , at 4.5 yr , exceeded mean adult values by more than five-fold . competitive inhibition reduced l-methionine uptake in all patients older than 4.6 yr . these developmental changes parallel findings in animals . the neutral amino acid transport system may modulate human brain amino acid levels to meet changing developmental metabolic needs . 
long-term follow-up in toxic solitary autonomous thyroid nodules treated with radioactive iodine the long-term effects of radioiodine treatment on thyroid function in patients with a toxic solitary autonomous thyroid nodule were evaluated . fifty-two patients received a therapeutic dose of 20 mci of iodine-131 ( 131i ) . duration of follow-up was 10 + / - 4 yr . follow-up data included a biochemical evaluation of thyroid function . the failure rate ( recurrent hyperthyroidism ) was 2 % . the incidence of hypothyroidism was 6 % and was not related to the dose per gram of nodular tissue . oral administration of 20 mci of radioiodine is a simple and highly effective method for the treatment of patients with a toxic autonomous thyroid nodule . the risk of development of hypothyroidism is low if extranodular uptake of 131i is prevented . this can be achieved by not treating euthyroid patients , by no longer using injections of exogenous thyroid stimulating hormone in the diagnostic work-up of the patients and by always performing radioiodine imaging shortly before treatment . 
vasculitis as a paraneoplastic syndrome . report of 11 cases and review of the literature . in a study of 222 patients with vasculitis , we identified 11 who had an associated neoplasia . seven had hematological neoplasia and 4 had solid malignant tumors . in 4 patients vasculitis gave the first evidence of the neoplasia or of its recurrence . nine of our patients had cutaneous vasculitis . the other 2 had vasculitis involving the intestine and resulted in acute abdomens . these 2 patients needed prednisone treatment for the vasculitis . neoplasia should be considered in patients with vasculitis without an apparent cause . 
systemic toxic effects associated with high-dose verapamil infusion and chemotherapy administration . aside from its more conventional uses as a cardiovascular drug , the calcium channel blocker verapamil has recently been added to chemotherapeutic regimens to reduce drug resistance in b-cell and other neoplasms that express the p-glycoprotein . we recently treated patients with continuous-infusion verapamil ( 0.15 mg/kg per hour to 0.60 mg/kg per hour ) over a 5-day period in combination with continuous-infusion vincristine and doxorubicin plus oral dexamethasone . seventy-one courses involving 35 hospitalized patients were prospectively studied for cardiovascular and other side effects . cardiovascular side effects were observed most frequently and consisted of first-degree heart block , hypotension , sinus bradycardia , and junctional rhythms . we observed higher degree heart block , but the qrs interval remained narrow and the ventricular escape rate remained relatively normal . effects on mean arterial pressure , heart rate , and pr interval were both time and dose related . severe , symptomatic congestive heart failure was rarely observed . the most common noncardiovascular side effects were constipation , peripheral edema , and weight gain . all systemic toxic effects observed were easily treated or disappeared with either temporary or permanent discontinuation of the verapamil infusion or by a decrease in the dose of verapamil . we conclude that the cardiovascular side effects associated with continuous , high-dose intravenous verapamil therapy are significant and dose limiting but are rapidly reversible . less cardiotoxic chemosensitizers are needed to reverse multidrug resistance in cancer . 
clinical relevance of immunohistochemical detection of multidrug resistance p-glycoprotein in breast carcinoma in 20 women with breast carcinoma , 17 of whom had locally advanced cancer and 3 of whom had confirmed metastases , the expression of p-glycoprotein was evaluated before the start of a chemotherapy regimen that included multidrug resistance-related drugs . with the use of the c494 monoclonal antibody in an avidin-biotin-immunoperoxidase technique , p-glycoprotein was detected in 17 of 20 tumor samples . results were expressed in a semiquantitative manner , taking into account the number of positive tumor cells ( n index ) and the specific staining intensity ( i index ) . the 17 patients with nonmetastatic cancer were followed from the first cycle of chemotherapy to cancer recurrence ; subsequent to six cycles of chemotherapy , all of these patients except one were rendered clinically disease-free through surgery and/or radiation . the end point was defined as either local/regional recurrence or metastasis . strong p-glycoprotein-positive staining in a majority of tumor cells ( the n + / i + phenotype ) was significantly correlated with no initial response to chemotherapy ( p less than .02 ) and with a shorter progression-free survival ( p less than .02 ) . thus , the pretreatment evaluation of p-glycoprotein expression may be of prognostic value in patients with locally advanced breast cancer . 
effect of interleukin-1-beta on metastasis formation in different tumor systems . experiments were done to determine the effect of interleukin-1-beta ( il-1 beta ) on metastasis formation in different tumor systems . intravenous administration of 1 microgram of human recombinant il-1 beta given 1 hour before tumor cell injection augmented lung colony formation ( experimental metastases ) by the human a375 melanoma variants , the human ht-29m colon carcinoma , the sn12-k1 renal carcinoma in nude mice , the murine b16 melanoma variants , and the murine uv-2237m fibrosarcoma in syngeneic recipients . the same treatment did not induce lung colony formation by a human rectal carcinoma ( hcc-p2988 ) or by a murine reticulum cell sarcoma ( m5076 ) , both of which are not metastatic to the lung . spontaneous metastases were studied in c57bl/6 mice bearing the b16-bl6 melanoma ( metastatic to the lung ) in their footpad and the m5076 reticulum cell sarcoma ( metastatic to the liver ) subcutaneously . daily intraperitoneal treatment with 1 microgram of il-1 beta increased lung and liver metastases . these findings indicate that treatment of mice with il-1 beta can increase the number of artificial or spontaneous metastases and that this effect is not limited to a single tumor type or to a specific organ . 
phase i clinical and pharmacokinetic trial of flavone acetic acid . flavone acetic acid is a synthetic benzopyrone derivative with an unknown mechanism of action . thirty-eight patients ( 30 men and 8 women ) were treated once a week for 4 weeks every 5 weeks with doses of flavone acetic acid ranging from 0.33 to 12.5 g/m2 . at doses less than or equal to 3.9 g/m2 , the drug was administered intravenously over 1 hour ; at doses greater than or equal to 5.28 g/m2 , the infusion period was lengthened to 6 hours . treatment of all patients included hydration before and after treatment and alkalization to maintain urine ph at greater than or equal to 6.5 . a dose-limiting toxic effect was hypotension at 10 g/m2 . pharmacokinetic studies revealed linear behavior in the eight patients studied , beginning at 3.9 g/m2 . peak plasma levels ranged from 125 to 630 micrograms/ml , with a mean terminal half-life of 22.4 hours . immunologic monitoring was performed in three patients at 10 g/m2 . a transient increase in cd16 - and/or leu-19-positive cells was noted in all three patients . in one patient , this increase correlated with a 10-fold increase in k562 cell killing . there were no objective tumor responses seen in this trial . the recommended phase ii dose on this schedule is 8 g/m2 . further studies to elucidate the drug 's mechanism of action and to define its immunologic properties are recommended . 
tumor suppressor genes : new prospects for cancer research . cancer is thought to arise from the accumulation of several genetic mutations in a single cell . until recently , the only tumorigenic mutations that have been studied in detail are those that activate oncogenes . the discovery of tumor suppressor genes , for which inactivating mutations elicit tumorigenesis , has added a new dimension to our understanding of neoplasia . the retinoblastoma susceptibility gene rb is the prototype tumor suppressor gene and has been shown to suppress the transformed phenotype for several different cancers . additional studies have revealed other tumor suppressor genes that may operate in a variety of tissues through a variety of mechanisms . these mechanisms may regulate the choice between cellular proliferation and differentiation and appear to involve such processes as the initiation of dna replication , regulation of expression of certain genes , intercellular communication and adhesion , and the transduction of external signals to intracellular effectors . the elucidation of these mechanisms will enhance our understanding of both oncogenesis and the fundamental operations of the cell . 
phase i and imaging trial of indium 111-labeled anti-epidermal growth factor receptor monoclonal antibody 225 in patients with squamous cell lung carcinoma murine monoclonal antibody ( mab ) 225 ( igg1 ) against the epidermal growth factor ( egf ) receptor competitively blocks egf binding and inhibits egf-induced activation of receptor tyrosine kinase and cell proliferation . the effect of mab 225 was studied in a phase i trial in patients with inoperable squamous cell carcinoma of the lung , which invariably expresses high levels of egf receptors . groups of three patients received total doses of mab 225 ranging from 1 mg to 300 mg . except at the lowest dose , each infusion included 4 mg of indium 111 ( 111in ) - labeled mab 225 . no toxicity was observed . tumors were imaged in all patients who received doses of 20 mg or greater . presumed metastases greater than or equal to 1 cm in diameter were imaged with doses of 40 mg or greater . single-photon-emission-computed tomography could be carried out at the 120-mg and 300-mg doses and significantly improved tumor visualization . all patients produced anti-murine antibodies . we conclude that treatment with an mab that inhibits egf receptor function is safe at the doses and schedule studied . 111in-labeled mab images squamous cell lung carcinoma ; tumor uptake of the labeled mab is dose dependent . further studies are warranted to explore the potential therapeutic efficacy of anti-egf receptor mabs and other agents that act in a comparable manner . 
stress response protein ( srp-27 ) determination in primary human breast carcinomas : clinical , histologic , and prognostic correlations expression of an estrogen-regulated protein known as the 27,000-d heat-shock or stress-response protein ( srp-27 ) was evaluated in human breast carcinomas and established breast cancer cell lines . results obtained by northern and western blot analyses and immunohistochemical methods were concordant . immunohistochemical assessment of srp-27 expression in 300 breast carcinomas ( with median patient follow-up of 8 years ) was performed . twenty-six percent of lymph node-negative and 45 % of lymph node-positive tumors were overexpressors . univariate analysis demonstrated significant correlations between srp-27 overexpression and estrogen receptor ( er ) content , ps2 protein expression , nodal metastases , advanced t stage , lymphatic/vascular invasion , and a shorter disease-free survival period ( but not a shorter overall survival ) for the study population as a whole . regression tree analysis showed that srp-27 expression was an independent prognostic indicator for disease-free survival only in patients with one to three positive lymph nodes . the cox proportional hazards model confirmed the independent prognostic significance of nodal involvement , t stage , and er content but failed to recognize srp-27 overexpression as a significant independent parameter predictive of patient outcome in the patient population as a whole . the observed associations between srp-27 overexpression and more aggressive tumors suggest a biologic role for srp-27 in human breast carcinomas . 
therapeutic advantage of hypoxic cells in tumors : a theoretical study the presence of hypoxic cells in solid tumors has long been considered a problem in cancer treatment , particularly for radiation therapy but also for treatment with some anticancer drugs . three general strategies are being actively explored to overcome the problem : oxygenating the tumor , sensitizing the hypoxic cells to radiation ( or chemotherapy ) , or killing the hypoxic cells ( with a hypoxic cell cytotoxin ) . in the present study , we have examined the impact of each of these three strategies on a standard radiation therapy regimen ( 30 doses of 2 gy ) , using either of two major assumptions : full reoxygenation or no reoxygenation of the tumor cells . we demonstrate that a hypoxic cell cytotoxin can produce a level of tumor cell killing higher ( by several orders of magnitude ) than that produced by full oxygenation of a tumor or by use of an optimum hypoxic cell radiosensitizer , provided the cytotoxin kills more than approximately 50 % of the hypoxic cells each time it is given . the only assumption that makes a difference is whether reoxygenation occurs : in the worst case ( ie , no reoxygenation ) , the hypoxic cell cytotoxin performs only as well as an optimum radiosensitizer . the analysis shows that hypoxic cells in tumors can be a major therapeutic advantage . therefore , we recommend that research efforts be concentrated on development of superior hypoxic cell cytotoxins rather than improved hypoxic cell radiosensitizers and that , in parallel , emphasis be placed on development of agents to increase hypoxia . 
brief intensive chemotherapy for metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer : a phase ii study of the weekly code regimen . fifty-three patients , 17 with stage iiib and 36 with stage iv non-small-cell lung cancer , were given code ( cisplatin , vincristine , doxorubicin , and etoposide ) plus antibiotic prophylaxis and an antiemetic regimen in an intensive chemotherapy program emphasizing weekly treatment and a planned brief duration ( 9-12 weeks ) ; for 45 of these patients , the code program also included antifungal prophylaxis and supportive corticosteroids . of the total study population , 33 patients ( 62 % ) responded to treatment , including five ( 9 % ) with complete response . the median survival for the entire group was 42 weeks ( 55 weeks for those with stage iiib and 39 weeks for those with stage iv ) . more than 40 % were alive at 1 year . comparison of granulocyte counts of patients receiving prednisone with those of the subgroup to whom no corticosteroids were given showed less granulocytopenia for those receiving prednisone . use of prednisone thus allowed improved delivery of myelosuppressive drugs . code was halted in nine patients because of disease progression . although more constitutional side effects are associated with weekly chemotherapy than with standard chemotherapy , only 12 of the remaining 44 patients ( 27 % ) failed to receive at least 9 weeks of treatment . serious toxicity was uncommon : there were no treatment-related deaths and only three episodes of neutropenia with fever . code is a novel treatment for non-small-cell lung cancer that this pilot study provided entirely in an outpatient setting over a 9-12 week period with an acceptable incidence of toxicity and a promising level of efficacy . additional testing and comparison with other regimens or supportive care alone are warranted . 
analysis of alterations in the retinoblastoma gene and tumor grade in bone and soft-tissue sarcomas . we examined 43 sporadic bone and soft-tissue sarcomas for molecular genetic alterations affecting the retinoblastoma susceptibility gene rb-1 ( also known as rb1 ) . the gene was altered in 6 of 14 sporadic osteosarcomas and in 5 of 29 other bone and soft-tissue sarcomas . rb-1 messenger rna ( mrna ) transcripts were detected in normal tissues and benign lipomas , but they were absent or altered in each of the 19 sarcomas we examined . to examine the association of deletions in the rb-1 gene with tumor grade , we correlated the dna alterations in the rb-1 gene with clinical data for 36 patients . the rb-1 gene was altered in 40 % of high-grade bone and soft-tissue tumors , but not in low-grade bone tumors and in only one low-grade , soft-tissue sarcoma . overall , 10 of 25 high-grade sarcomas had detectable alterations of the rb-1 gene compared with only 1 of 11 low-grade tumors . 
diffusion and binding of monoclonal antibody tnt-1 in multicellular tumor spheroids . tumor spheroids of ht-29 human colon adenocarcinoma and a375 melanoma were established to investigate the uptake and clearance kinetics of tnt-1 , a monoclonal antibody that targets necrotic cells of tumors . our data reveal that there was rapid uptake of tnt-1 and its f ( ab ' ) 2 fragment in both spheroid models , whereas an antibody of irrelevant specificity , lym-1 , and its f ( ab ' ) 2 fragment bound poorly to the spheroids . unlike previously reported monoclonal antibodies to tumor cell-surface antigens , tnt-1 showed 1 ) a linear uptake that increased over time without saturation in tumor spheroids and 2 ) an unexpected uptake by a subpopulation of cells in the viable outer rim of the spheroids . these preclinical studies provide important information concerning the therapeutic potential of tnt monoclonal antibodies for the treatment of cancer and micrometastases . 
management of primary nonrenal parenchymal malignancies with vena caval thrombus . we report our experience with the management of 7 primary nonrenal parenchymal malignancies with vena caval tumor thrombus . included are 3 cases of adrenal cortical carcinoma and 1 each of transitional cell carcinoma , embryonal cell testicular carcinoma , pheochromocytoma and primary small cell carcinoma of the lung with metastases to the kidney . surgical treatment and followup are presented , as well as a review of the literature . an aggressive surgical approach is warranted because prolonged survivals free of disease are possible . 
the incidence and prognostic significance of humoral hypercalcemia in renal cell carcinoma . this retrospective study was conducted to evaluate the incidence and prognostic significance of humoral hypercalcemia in 218 renal cell carcinoma patients during the last 20 years . of 218 patients 20 ( 9.2 % ) were hypercalcemic , with serum calcium levels ranging from 10.7 to 16.0 mg . / dl . the respective incidence of humoral hypercalcemia was 3 % in patients with stage i , 5.9 % with stage ii , 14.1 % with stage iii and 18.9 % with stage iv disease without bone metastasis . the survival curves between the hypercalcemic and eucalcemic groups among stages i to iii cancer patients showed no statistical significance ( p greater than 0.05 ) . the survival curve deteriorated significantly in stage iv cancer patients with humoral hypercalcemia ( p less than 0.005 ) , with a median survival of 45.0 + / - 39.7 days versus 286.4 + / - 27.6 days in eucalcemic patients . no specific correlation was found between pathological cell type and humoral hypercalcemia . 
uptake of 2-deoxy , 2 - ( 18f ) fluoro-d-glucose in bladder cancer : animal localization and initial patient positron emission tomography . an orthotopically transplanted , locally metastasizing rat bladder tumor model was developed to evaluate the extent of uptake of fluoro-deoxy-glucose ( fdg ) in bladder cancer . significant uptake of fdg in localized bladder tumors in rats was shown , with an average tumor-to-blood ratio of 39 at 2 hours after intravenous fdg administration . metastases ( 3 nodal and 1 peritoneal ) also showed significant uptake of fdg , with an average metastasis-to-blood ratio of 21.7 , and tumor involved-to-normal lymph node ratio of 5.3 . because fdg is excreted in the urine , urinary fdg potentially could prevent the use of fdg/positron emission tomography ( fdg/pet ) scanning for localized bladder cancer . bladder lavage successfully reduced the retention of fdg in the normal rat bladder , with an estimated uptake ratio of tumor-to-normal bladder of 13.1 after 5 ml . saline irrigation . based on these data , we performed an fdg/pet scan of a patient with biopsy proved recurrent intravesical bladder cancer after radiation therapy . computerized tomography ( ct ) of the pelvis showed abnormalities consistent with radiation scarring and extravesical tumor . due to the scarring , the extent of tumor growth could not be determined . the patient also had pulmonary opacities seen on chest radiography . the fdg/pet scan of this patient showed significant extravesical uptake in the pelvis , confirming the abnormality noted on ct . good images of the clinically apparent metastases in the chest also were obtained . these preliminary data indicate that fdg/pet imaging of bladder cancer is feasible and it may provide new information for the diagnosis and staging of patients with bladder cancer . 
post-chemotherapy tumor residuals in patients with advanced nonseminomatous testicular cancer . is it necessary to resect all residual masses ? a total of 15 patients with advanced nonseminomatous testicular cancer underwent 2 sequential operations ( 4 in 1 patient ) to remove residual masses after cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy . all patients had normal human chorionic gonadotropin and alpha-fetoprotein levels but persistent radiographic masses after chemotherapy . the operations included retroperitoneal lymph node dissection in 13 patients , thoracotomy in 15 , hepatic resection in 3 and craniotomy in 1 . histological comparison of the specimens resected during post-chemotherapy operations 1 and 2 demonstrated different patterns in 7 of 15 patients . of these 7 patients 4 had less favorable pathological features in the specimen removed during the second procedure . residual malignant tumor or mature teratoma was found in at least 1 site in 12 of the 15 patients and only 3 had complete necrosis or fibrosis in both specimens examined . these data indicate the favorable impact of excising all post-chemotherapy tumor residuals in patients with advanced nonseminomatous testicular cancer . however , in patients with no teratomatous elements in the testicular tumor and complete necrosis or fibrosis in the initial post-chemotherapy operation specimen the probability of complete necrosis or fibrosis in remaining tumors appears to be high . 
predicting radionuclide bone scan findings in patients with newly diagnosed , untreated prostate cancer : prostate specific antigen is superior to all other clinical parameters . presently , the standard staging evaluation of prostate cancer includes digital rectal examination , measurement of serum tumor markers and a radionuclide bone scan . to evaluate the ability of local clinical stage , tumor grade , serum acid phosphatase , serum prostatic acid phosphatase ( pap ) and serum prostate specific antigen ( psa ) to predict bone scan findings , a retrospective review of 521 randomly chosen patients ( mean age 70 years , range 44 to 92 years ) with newly diagnosed , untreated prostate cancer was performed . local clinical stage , tumor grade , acid phosphatase , pap and psa all correlated positively with bone scan findings ( p less than 0.0001 ) . using receiver operating characteristic curves , however , psa had the best over-all correlation with bone scan results . the median serum psa concentration in patients with a positive bone scan was 158.0 ng . / ml. , whereas men with a negative bone scan had a median serum psa level of 11.3 ng . / ml . ( p less than 0.0001 ) . using multivariate logistic regression analysis , local clinical stage , tumor grade , acid phosphatase and pap were evaluated in combination with psa to assess whether these parameters increased the ability of psa alone to predict bone scan findings . none of these clinical parameters , irrespective of the combination used , contributed appreciably to the predictive power of psa alone . a probability plot with 95 % confidence intervals was constructed that allows the practicing urologist to estimate on an individual basis the probability of a positive bone scan for any given serum psa value . the most significant finding of this study , however , was the negative predictive value of a low serum psa concentration for bone scan findings . in 306 men with a serum psa level of 20 ng . / ml . or less only 1 ( psa 18.2 ng . / ml . ) had a positive bone scan ( negative predictive value 99.7 % ) . this finding would suggest that a staging radionuclide bone scan in a previously untreated prostate cancer patient with a low serum psa concentration may not be necessary . 
the distribution of residual cancer in radical prostatectomy specimens in stage a prostate cancer . to assess the volume and distribution of residual cancer after transurethral resection of the prostate in stage a cancer patients 42 step-sectioned radical prostatectomy specimens were examined , and the volume , location , grade and extracapsular extension of the residual tumor were recorded . a total of 13 patients had stage a1 tumors ( 5 % or less tumor in the transurethral resection specimen and a gleason sum of 7 or less ) and 29 had stage a2 disease . residual cancer was present in the radical prostatectomy specimen in 41 patients ( 98 % ) with a mean volume of 1.28 cc . the location of residual cancer , that is multifocal ( 76 % ) , peripheral ( 81 % ) and distal to the verumontanum ( 66 % ) , makes complete removal or even identification of residual tumor ( restaging ) by repeat transurethral resection improbable . of the stage a1 cancer patients 4 ( 30 % ) had more than 1 cc residual tumor volume , extracapsular extension or seminal vesicle invasion . on the other hand , 14 of the stage a2 cancer patients ( 48 % ) had less than 1 cc residual tumor completely confined to the gland . foci of residual cancer were found in the transition zone in 67 % and in the peripheral zone in 90 % of the patients . the grade of the residual peripheral zone cancer was significantly higher than that of the transition zone cancer in the same gland ( p = 0.0004 ) . eight of 13 instances of extracapsular extension and all 5 of seminal vesicle invasion were directly attributable to peripheral zone cancer . these observations imply that the greatest threat to patients with stage a prostate cancer may be a separate , associated cancer in the peripheral zone rather than the primary transition zone cancer incidentally removed at transurethral resection . 
multifocal , synchronous inverted papillomas involving the ureter . inverted papillomas involving the upper urinary tract remain a rarely diagnosed phenomenon . a case of bilateral ureteral inverted papillomas is presented . the treatment and diagnosis of this lesion remain a challenge . 
pelvic lipomatosis associated with cystitis glandularis and adenocarcinoma of the bladder . pelvic lipomatosis is a rare condition characterized by an overgrowth of normal fat in the perivesical and perirectal spaces . cystitis glandularis , cystica or follicularis has been observed in 75 % of the patients with pelvic lipomatosis . although cystitis glandularis is widely regarded as premalignant few reports have documented its transition to adenocarcinoma . we describe a 41-year-old man with pelvic lipomatosis in whom primary adenocarcinoma of the bladder developed 6 years after a histological diagnosis of cystitis cystica and glandularis was established . to our knowledge this is the second case reported of pelvic lipomatosis associated with proliferative cystitis and adenocarcinoma of the bladder , indicating that intestinal metaplasia of the urothelium may be a precursor of malignancy in these patients . 
locally recurrent endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the prostate after radical prostatectomy . endometrioid carcinoma of the prostate is considered a variant of classical prostatic ductal carcinoma . endometrioid carcinoma variant often has the unique clinical presentation of gross hematuria . the propensity of this tumor to spread within the urothelium makes local failure of curative therapy commonplace . we present 2 representative cases with a review of followup surveillance procedures and treatment options for the local recurrence once identified . 
effect of suramin on human prostate cancer cells in vitro . suramin , a polyanionic compound with known antiparasitic activity , has been shown to be adrenocorticolytic in primates and to have clinical efficacy in the treatment of patients with metastatic prostate cancer refractory to conventional hormonal manipulation . to better characterize the activity of suramin on prostate cancer biology , we studied the effect of the drug on plasma adrenal androgens of patients and on the human prostate adenocarcinoma cell lines pc-3 , du 145 and lncap-fgc . five cancer patients treated with suramin had an approximate 40 % decline in circulating androstenedione , dehydroepiandrosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate levels . the drug inhibited the colony formation in two of the three cell lines at concentrations clinically achievable in humans without excessive drug-related toxicity . the presence of suramin 300 micrograms . / ml . partially inhibited the growth stimulatory effect of testosterone and basic fibroblast growth factor , but not that of epidermal growth factor . the cellular concentration of suramin following exposure to a single dose increases linearly over time in each of the cell lines with lncap-fgc accumulating the highest levels of the drug ; cellular levels of suramin , not androgen or growth factor sensitivity , correlated with the sensitivity to the drug . the concentrations of prostatic acid phosphatase and prostatic specific antigen released by lncap-fgc cells in cell culture medium declined in the presence of increasing levels of suramin in a manner which exceeded the decrease in cell number . we conclude that suramin , aside from decreasing circulating androgens through its adrenocorticolytic effect , is also capable exerting a direct inhibitory effect on cell proliferation of prostate cancer cells , and interfere at a cellular level with the growth stimulatory effects of exogenous testosterone and basic fibroblast growth factor . 
influence of age and endocrine factors on the volume of benign prostatic hyperplasia . to determine whether endocrine factors influence the volume of benign prostatic hyperplasia ( bph ) , 23 hormonal factors were measured in the serum of 64 men ages 42 to 71 years with low volume prostatic cancer and these levels were correlated with the volume of benign hyperplastic tissue in their radical prostatectomy specimens . with age there was a significant increase in the volume of bph . also with age there was a significant decrease in the serum levels of free testosterone , androstenedione , dehydroepiandronsterone ( dha ) , dehydroepiandronsterone sulphate ( dha-s ) , delta 5-androstenediol , and 17-hydroxypregnenolone , and a significant increase in sex hormone-binding globulin ( shbg ) , lh , and fsh . when bph volume and hormone levels were corrected for age , bph volume correlated positively with free testosterone , estradiol , and estriol . these data indicate that with age patients with larger volumes of bph have higher serum androgen and estrogen levels suggesting that serum androgen and estrogen levels may be factors in the persistent stimulation of bph with age . if so , therapeutic attempts at lowering plasma testosterone levels , reducing estrogen levels , or blocking androgenic stimulation through other mechanisms may interfere with the progression of bph with age . conversely , the fact that androgen production declines gradually with age may explain the observation that only 20 to 30 % of men who live to age 80 require surgical treatment for urinary obstruction from bph . 
expression of c-erbb-2 gene product in urinary bladder cancer . expression of the c-erbb-2 gene product and the epidermal growth factor receptor ( egf-r ) was investigated in 54 cases of human bladder cancer immunohistologically and by western blot analysis . for detection of the c-erbb-2 product , two specific antibodies , a rabbit polyclonal antibody directed to the intracellular domain and a murine monoclonal antibody recognizing an epitope in the extracellular domain , were used . seventeen cases of bladder cancer were stained by the anti-c-erbb-2 polyclonal antibody , while 20 cases were stained by the monoclonal antibody , with good correlation on both stainings ( p less than 0.01 ) . there were four c-erbb-2 positive cases in 26 g1 tumors , four in 15 g2 tumors , and nine in 13 g3 tumors . there were also eight erbb-2 positive cases in nine muscle-invasive tumors , nine of 45 superficial tumors , four of five with lymph node metastasis , and seven of 14 without metastasis , as revealed by staining with the polyclonal antibody . thus , the c-erbb-2 gene product was more frequently expressed in high grade tumors ( p less than 0.01 ) , in high stage tumors ( p less than 0.01 ) , and nodal metastatic tumors ( n.s. by chi-square test ) . twenty-two of the 54 tumors were stained by an anti-egf-r monoclonal antibody , 528 igg . the expression of egf-r was independent of histological grading , tumor stage , and nodal status , and no correlation was observed between expression of the c-erbb-2 product and egf-r . the c-erbb-2 product may be applicable as a tumor marker for evaluation of malignant potential , invasiveness , and probably metastatic potential of human bladder cancer . 
follicular thyroid cancer treated at the mayo clinic , 1946 through 1970 : initial manifestations , pathologic findings , therapy , and outcome we retrospectively analyzed the outcome of all patients who received their primary treatment for follicular thyroid cancer at the mayo clinic between 1946 and 1970 . the diagnosis was confirmed by reexamination of preserved tissue specimens . the 57 female and 43 male patients ( mean age , 53 years ) underwent follow-up for a maximum of 32 years ( mean , 17.4 years ) . all patients were treated surgically , and total removal of primary tumor was thought to have been accomplished in all but three . only 2 of the 88 patients without distant metastatic lesions at the time of initial diagnosis underwent ablation of the thyroid remnant . at the conclusion of the study , 52 patients had died , thyroid cancer being the cause of death in 19 . on the basis of univariate survival analysis , age more than 50 years , tumor size that exceeded 3.9 cm , higher tumor grade , presence of marked vascular invasion , adjacent tissue invasion , and distant metastatic involvement at the time of initial diagnosis were associated with increased cancer mortality . multivariate analysis ( by cox proportional hazards model ) , however , identified only age greater than 50 years , marked vascular invasion , and metastatic disease at the time of diagnosis to be independent predictors of follicular thyroid cancer-related mortality . patients with two or more of these predictors were classified as being high risk . these patients had 5 - and 20-year survival rates of 47 % and 8 % , respectively ; the corresponding survival data for the low-risk group were 99 % at 5 years and 86 % at 20 years . the identification of these risk groups may facilitate a more rational approach to treatment of follicular thyroid cancer . 
paraneoplastic brachial plexopathy in a patient with hodgkin 's disease . we describe a case of inflammatory brachial plexopathy that occurred in the context of a mild , diffuse sensorimotor peripheral neuropathy associated with hodgkin 's disease . clinical , electrophysiologic , and pathologic studies helped distinguish this disorder from other causes of brachial plexopathy in patients with cancer . treatment with corticosteroids seemed beneficial in this patient . we suggest that this may be another type of paraneoplastic condition associated with hodgkin 's disease . 
longitudinal study of women with negative cervical smears according to endocervical status a longitudinal study of 20,222 women who received negative cervical smear reports in 1987 showed that the incidence of definite or equivocal cervical intraepithelial neoplasia ( cin ) was not significantly different between those whose first smear lacked an endocervical component and those whose smear included an endocervical component . the incidence of definite cytological evidence of cin was significantly lower in women whose first smear did not include an endocervical component . it is concluded that women whose smears are reported as negative but lack an endocervical component should not be rescreened any earlier than women with negative smears that include an endocervical component . 
chromogranin a storage and secretion : sensitivity and specificity for the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma . chromogranin a , co-stored and co-released with catecholamines from adrenal medullary and sympathetic neuronal vesicles , is elevated in the plasma of patients with pheochromocytoma . the usefulness of the hormone in the differential diagnosis of hypertension is examined . an elevated level of chromogranin a had comparable diagnostic sensitivity ( 83 % , 24/29 ) to , but greater diagnostic specificity ( 96 % , 86/90 ) than the level of plasma catecholamines when subjects with pheochromocytoma ( n = 29 ) were evaluated in comparison to several reference groups , including normotensive controls ( n = 49 ) , subjects with essential hypertension ( n = 28 ) , subjects with renovascular hypertension ( n = 5 ) , and subjects with primary aldosteronism ( n = 3 ) . subjects with signs or symptoms suggesting pheochromocytoma , but in whom the diagnosis was ultimately ruled out ( n = 5 ) had normal plasma levels of chromogranin a. a modest rise in chromogranin a in those with essential hypertension , and correlation of chromogranin a with diastolic blood pressure in normotensive patients and patients with essential hypertension did not impair the diagnostic usefulness of chromogranin a for pheochromocytoma . renal failure was associated with an elevated plasma chromogranin a independently of blood pressure . plasma chromogranin a correlated with tumor mass , tumor chromogranin a content , tumor norepinephrine content , and urinary vanillylmandelic acid excretion ; it did not correlate with plasma or urinary catecholamines , nor with blood pressure in patients with pheochromocytoma . plasma chromogranin a levels did not differ in subjects with pheochromocytoma when stratified by age , sex , tumor location , or tumor pathology . several drugs used in the diagnosis or treatment of pheochromocytoma ( clonidine , metoprolol , phentolamine , and tyramine ) had little effect on plasma chromogranin a concentration . within the pheochromocytoma , chromogranin a was localized along with catecholamines to the soluble core of chromaffin granules , where it accounted for 18 + / - 5 % of vesicle soluble protein . we conclude that 1 ) chromogranin a emerges along with catecholamines from pheochromocytoma chromaffin granules ; 2 ) plasma chromogranin a is a sensitive and specific diagnostic tool in evaluation of actual or suspected pheochromocytoma ; 3 ) plasma chromogranin a predicts pheochromocytoma tumor size and overall catecholamine production ; and 4 ) drugs commonly employed in the diagnosis or treatment of pheochromocytoma have little effect on plasma chromogranin a level , preserving the usefulness of chromogranin a in evaluating pheochromocytoma . thus , measurement of chromogranin a provides a useful adjunct to the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma . 
a simplified diagnostic approach to pheochromocytoma . a review of the literature and report of one institution 's experience . pheochromocytoma is an unusual but potentially devastating tumor . although a high index of suspicion is necessary , the likelihood of a pheochromocytoma is lower in the absence of the typical symptoms and findings . nonetheless , screening must be broadened to include patients with a lower risk of the disease , such as those with resistant or labile hypertension who are minimally symptomatic . extensive diagnostic evaluations should be reserved for those whose clinical or laboratory findings are more suggestive . symptoms in a group of patients in whom a pheochromocytoma was seriously considered but excluded overlap symptoms in patients with a pheochromocytoma . certain symptoms are useful : flushing to suggest a non-pheochromocytoma illness ; visual symptoms , flank pain , and pallor to suggest that a pheochromocytoma is more likely . combinations of symptoms can be of value : 2 or more symptoms from the triad of headache , palpitations , and diaphoresis were present in the majority of pheochromocytoma patients , but in a smaller number of non-pheochromocytoma patients . the presence of the entire triad is more specific , but less sensitive . new hypertension , or hypertension associated with unexplained orthostatic hypotension , are suggestive of an underlying pheochromocytoma . twenty-four-hour urine studies are consistently abnormal in patients with a pheochromocytoma , but are also elevated in a significant proportion of non-pheochromocytoma patients . values greater then 1.5-2-fold above the upper limit of normal are very suggestive that a pheochromocytoma is present , and warrant a more intensive subsequent evaluation . imaging studies are reliable in the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma , and can help to confirm or exclude the disease . patients with a higher clinical likelihood and any elevated urinary testing , or with a lower clinical likelihood and persistently and/or significantly elevated urinary testing , should have imaging studies performed . this combination of clinical screening , 24-hour urinary testing , and imaging studies is a useful and reliable approach to patients suspected of harboring a pheochromocytoma . 
diagnostic relevance of clonal cytogenetic aberrations in malignant soft-tissue tumors . background . malignant soft-tissue tumors often present substantial diagnostic challenges . chromosome aberrations that might be diagnostic have been identified in some types of soft-tissue tumors , but the overall frequency and diagnostic relevance of these aberrations have not been established . methods . we attempted to determine the karyotypes of a series of 62 consecutive , unselected malignant spindle-cell or small round-cell soft-tissue tumors ( from 46 adults and 16 children ) after direct harvesting of cells or short-term culture . all tumors were examined independently by immunohistochemical staining in addition to routine light-microscopical evaluation , and all but two tumors were examined by electron microscopy . results . metaphases were obtained from 61 of the 62 tumors , and clonal chromosome aberrations were identified in 55 ( 89 percent ) . in the six tumors that yielded metaphases but lacked apparent clonal aberrations , the normal metaphases were found to originate from non-neoplastic stromal elements within the tumor specimens . thus , all tumors in which karyotyping was successful contained clonal chromosome aberrations . forty of 62 tumors ( 65 percent ) contained clonal chromosome aberrations that either suggested or confirmed a specific diagnosis ; in 15 of these tumors ( 24 percent of all tumors ) , the aberrations were important in establishing the final diagnosis . cytogenetic analyses were particularly informative about small round-cell tumors from children : 8 of 14 round-cell tumors contained diagnostically important chromosome aberrations . using the combined approaches of light and electron microscopy , immunohistochemistry , and cytogenetics , we established an unambiguous diagnosis for 60 of 62 tumors . conclusions . cytogenetic analyses reveal clonal chromosome aberrations in virtually all malignant soft-tissue tumors . these clonal chromosome aberrations , particularly in small round-cell tumors in children , often have diagnostic relevance . 
pretreatment neuropsychological status and associated factors in children with primary brain tumors . we report on the neuropsychological status of 31 children with primary brain tumors who underwent assessment before receiving therapy . overall , the children performed within normal limits in all test areas . the exception was the group with anterior hemispheric tumors who demonstrated deficits in executive cognitive functions . also , when compared according to tumor type , children with midline tumors and hydrocephalus performed more poorly than others on measures of intelligence , executive abilities , visual-motor skills , and fine-motor functions . although one-half to two-thirds of the children with supratentorial midline and infratentorial tumors had cranial nerve , oculomotor , or cerebellar deficits , only the latter were associated with specific neuropsychological deficits ( poorer performance on fine-motor and visual-motor tests ) . age did not appear to be a factor in these children 's neuropsychological test performances . 
observations on the pathophysiology of nelson 's syndrome : a report of three cases . nelson 's syndrome is generally regarded as an unusual sequela of primary bilateral adrenalectomy when performed for cushing 's disease . it is classically defined by cutaneous hyperpigmentation , considerably elevated adrenocorticotropic hormone ( acth ) levels , and an enlarged sella turcica . in this report , we present three cases initially treated by transsphenoidal sellar exploration for cushing 's disease . in two of these cases , remission of hypercortisolism did not occur after the initial pituitary exploration . a microadenomectomy was performed in one case and , in the other , no microadenoma was found . in both , nelson 's syndrome occurred after adrenalectomy . a second transsphenoidal operation and radiotherapy were required to control tumor growth . in another case , transsphenoidal adenomectomy of an acth-secreting tumor initially led to a remission of hypercortisolism for 4 years , but recurrent cushing 's disease necessitated adrenalectomy , and again nelson 's syndrome occurred . the documentation of a pre-existing acth-secreting basophilic pituitary microadenoma before adrenalectomy , as seen in two of our cases , has not been previously reported , and these observations of " non-classical " courses have major implications for the pathophysiology of nelson 's syndrome . 
myeloma manifesting as a large jugular tumor : case report . the authors report a case of cranial plasmacytoma with multiple myelomas and palsy of the lower cranial nerves . the osteolytic lesion adjacent to the jugular foramen was demonstrated by an angiogram to be exceedingly hypervascular , with arteriovenous shunting resembling that seen in paragangliomas . forty-five cases of cranial and intracranial plasmacytoma from the literature were reviewed . the findings indicate that a cranial plasmacytoma commonly appears to be a hypervascular tumor , whereas most dural tumors or intraparenchymal tumors have poor vascularity . 
giant intradiploic epidermoid tumor of the occipital bone : case report . the authors describe a case of a giant intradiploic epidermoid cyst of the occipital bone with an intracranial extension in the posterior fossa and no signs of neurological involvement . the lesion started as a painless lump under the scalp . roentgenographic and computed tomographic findings led to a correct diagnosis , and the complete removal of the cyst was accomplished , despite its large size . the total removal of these cysts is associated with a good prognosis . 
neurinoma in the cavernous sinus : report of two cases . two cases of trigeminal neurinoma located solely in the cavernous sinus are reported . preoperatively , magnetic resonance imaging provided the accurate localization of the lesions , allowing precise planning of the surgical approach , that is , a subtemporal lateral approach and a pterional superior approach , respectively . the neurinomas inside the cavernous sinus were removed successfully , and the patients developed no new neurological deficits except for anesthesia in the 1st division of the trigeminal nerve . the characteristic magnetic resonance imaging findings of trigeminal neurinoma in the cavernous sinus are presented , and the different surgical approaches are discussed . 
spinal cord hemangioblastoma with subarachnoid hemorrhage . a case of subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by a cervical hemangioblastoma is presented . the clinical picture was indistinguishable from that of a subarachnoid hemorrhage from an intracranial lesion . the diagnosis was established by angiography and water-soluble contrast myelography followed by cervical computed tomographic scan . at surgery , the tumor was completely removed , and no neurological deficit was observed after the operation . 
" moustache " appearance in craniopharyngiomas : unique magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomographic findings of perifocal edema . this report describes two cases of craniopharyngioma with perifocal edema . in both patients , computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) revealed that the tumors occupied the suprasellar cistern , invaginated the floor of the 3rd ventricle and were tightly adherent to the ventricular walls . the intraventricular portions of the tumors were cystic , containing protein-rich fluid as suggested by mri and confirmed by operative findings . there was perifocal edema in the hypothalamus adjacent to the intraventricular tumor , the optic tracts , and the posterior limbs of the internal capsules , resembling the shape of a moustache on axial computed tomographic and mri scans . the perifocal edema subsided after treatment of the intraventricular tumor by surgical resection or radiation therapy . the " moustache " appearance seems a unique , characteristic feature of perifocal edema , which is observed infrequently with certain craniopharyngiomas . 
prognostic factors in stage ib squamous cervical cancer patients with low risk for recurrence . about one-half of cervical cancer patients whose tumors recur after radical surgery have negative lymph nodes and clear resection margins . we evaluated 95 patients with squamous cell tumors who underwent radical hysterectomy and pelvic lymphadenectomy between january 1975 and december 1985 and who were thought to be at low risk for recurrence to see whether other clinical or histopathologic factors were predictive of tumor recurrence . detailed retrospective record review and complete pathology review were accomplished for each case . the 5-year actuarial survival rate was 89 % . nine patients developed recurrent disease ( 9.5 % ) , of whom eight died . several clinical features were evaluated as possible prognostic factors : patient age ( p = .26 ) , patient race ( p = .60 ) , cervical diameter ( p = .24 ) , extent of gross cervical involvement ( p = .36 ) , and presence of contact bleeding ( p = .82 ) . histopathologic features were examined : depth of invasion ( p = .31 ) , number of mitoses ( p = .42 ) , character of the tumor-stromal border ( p = .15 ) , histologic differentiation ( p = .02 ) , lymph-vascular space invasion ( p = .56 ) , and width of tumor ( p = .23 ) . depth of invasion did correlate with increasing tumor width ( p less than .001 ) . once node - and margin-positive patients are excluded , differentiation may be the only feature useful in identifying patients at risk for recurrence . because almost one-half of our patients had poorly differentiated tumors , sole use of this feature as a criterion for adjuvant therapy would have resulted in overtreatment of low-risk patients . 
familial ovarian cancer in israeli jewish women . among 310 women with ovarian cancer of epithelial origin , eight ovarian cancer-prone families were identified , accounting for 24 cases . five first-degree relatives underwent prophylactic oophorectomy , and early ovarian carcinoma was diagnosed in one of them . familial aggregation of ovarian cancer occurs in the israeli jewish population . 
serial ca 125 levels during chemotherapy for metastatic or recurrent endometrial cancer . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the role of serial ca 125 in monitoring disease status during chemotherapy in women with metastatic or recurrent endometrial cancer . ca 125 was measured in 21 women receiving cisplatin , etoposide , and adriamycin for a total of 275 courses of chemotherapy ( median eight ) . eight of ten patients had elevated pre-therapy ca 125 levels ( median 233 u/ml ) . ca 125 became and/or remained negative in all 20 women with responding or stable disease and was elevated in all nine patients who relapsed . the median level at the time of relapse was 56 u/ml . levels were elevated before clinical relapse in five of nine patients ( 56 % ) . serial ca 125 may aid in the management of women receiving chemotherapy for advanced or recurrent endometrial cancer . 
estrogen replacement therapy : is previously treated cancer a contraindication ? the benefits of estrogen replacement therapy in preventing vasomotor symptoms , osteoporosis , and cardiovascular disease are well documented . although estrogen is said to be contraindicated in patients successfully treated for endometrial and breast cancer , there are no data to substantiate this admonition . experience suggests that it can be used safely in patients treated previously for endometrial cancer . although there is little or no experience with estrogen use in the woman treated previously for breast cancer , circumstantial evidence suggests that it is not contraindicated in all such cases . informed consent , patient desires , and risk-benefit considerations must enter into the decision to use estrogen in these patients . 
cone cerclage in pregnancy . we report a technique of cone cerclage and the results and outcome in 17 patients who required a diagnostic cone biopsy in pregnancy . the mean age of the patients was 30.6 years ( range 21-41 ) . the mean gestational age was 18.8 weeks ( range 10-32 ) at the time of the procedure . there were no major complications and hemorrhage was not a significant problem . there were no second-trimester abortions . two patients required beta-sympathomimetics to suppress uterine activity for longer than 24 hours after the procedure . six patients had invasive carcinoma , nine had cervical intraepithelial neoplasia ( cin ) iii , and two had cin ii . in 14 cases , the endocervical and ectocervical margins were negative ; two patients with cin and one with multifocal microinvasion had positive margins . cone cerclage is a safe and easy method for performing diagnostic cervical conization during pregnancy . 
identification of a cdna encoding a second putative prohormone convertase related to pc2 in att20 cells and islets of langerhans . pc2 and furin are two recently identified members of a class of mammalian proteins homologous to the yeast precursor processing protease kex2 and the bacterial subtillisins . we have used the polymerase chain reaction to identify and clone a cdna ( pc3 ) from the mouse att20 anterior pituitary cell line that represents an additional member of this growing family of mammalian proteases . pc3 encodes a 753-residue protein that begins with a signal peptide and contains a 292-residue domain closely related to the catalytic modules of pc2 , furin , and kex2 . within this region 58 % , 65 % , and 50 % of the amino acids of pc3 are identical to those of the aligned pc2 , furin , and kex2 sequences , respectively , and the catalytically important asp , his , and ser residues are all conserved . on northern blots , pc3 hybridizes to two transcripts of 3 and 5 kilobases . tissue distribution studies indicate that both pc2 and pc3 are expressed in a variety of neuroendocrine tissues , including pancreatic islets and brain , but are not expressed in liver , kidney , skeletal muscle , and spleen . the high degree of similarity of pc3 , pc2 , and furin suggests that they are all members of a superfamily of mammalian proteases that are involved in the processing of prohormones and/or other protein precursors . in contrast to furin , pc3 , like pc2 , lacks a hydrophobic transmembrane anchor , but it has a potential c-terminal amphipathic helical segment similar to the putative membrane anchor of carboxypeptidase h. these and other differences suggest that these proteins carry out compartmentalized proteolysis within cells , such as processing within regulated versus constitutive secretory pathways . 
queuine , a trna anticodon wobble base , maintains the proliferative and pluripotent potential of hl-60 cells in the presence of the differentiating agent 6-thioguanine . 6-thioguanine ( 6-tg ) - induced differentiation of hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase ( imp : pyrophosphate phosphoribosyltransferase , ec 2.4.2.8 ) - deficient hl-60 cells is characterized by 2 days of growth , after which morphological differentiation proceeds . addition of the trna wobble base queuine , in the presence of 6-tg , maintains the proliferative capability of the cells . the ability of 6-tg to induce differentiation correlates with c-myc mrna down-regulation , but queuine has no effect on this parameter . treatment with 6-tg for 2-3 days commits hl-60 cells to granulocytic differentiation , and , once committed , these cells do not respond to the monocytic inducer phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate . nonetheless , when cells are treated with queuine and 6-tg , they maintain the promyelocytic morphology and are capable of being induced down the monocytic pathway by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate as indicated by stabilization of c-fms mrna and cell adherence . in the absence of queuine , phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate is incapable of inducing monocytic markers in the 6-tg-treated cells . the data presented indicate that 6-tg-induced differentiation of hl-60 cells is a trna-facilitated event and that the trna wobble base queuine is capable of maintaining both the proliferative and pluripotent potential of the cells . 
progression of human papillomavirus type 18-immortalized human keratinocytes to a malignant phenotype . we have developed a model system for progression of human epithelial cells to malignancy , using a human papillomavirus type 18 ( hpv-18 ) - immortalized human keratinocyte cell line . cells of cell line fep-1811 were nontumorigenic in athymic mice through at least 12 passages in culture , but after 32 passages were weakly tumorigenic , producing tumors that regressed . after 62 passages they produced invasive squamous cell carcinomas that grew progressively . the progression to malignancy was associated with an increase in the efficiency of forming colonies in soft agar and with altered differentiation properties . in an organotypic culture system , fep-1811 cells at passages 12 and 32 exhibited features typical of premalignant intraepithelial neoplasia in vivo , and cells at passage 68 exhibited features consistent with squamous cell carcinomas . no change in copy number of the transfected hpv-18 genome or in the level of expression of the viral transforming gene products e6 and e7 was detected between tumorigenic and nontumorigenic cells . cytogenetic analysis of cells at early , middle , and late passage levels and cells cultured from tumors revealed that several chromosomal abnormalities segregated with the tumorigenic cell populations . 
vascularized full-thickness parietal bone grafts in maxillofacial reconstruction : the role of the galea and superficial temporal vessels . reconstruction of bony structures of the face is always a problem as big as the defect and the function that must be replaced . everything from simple grafts to sophisticated distant bone flaps has been used . based on the studies of cutting et al. , psillakis et al. , and casanova et al. , we have developed the full-thickness galeoparietal bone flap , initially for mandibular reconstruction , but of great use for all maxillofacial reconstructions . from july of 1987 to december of 1988 , 14 patients have been operated on . the experience with this flap is shown in four patients as follows : primary reconstruction of a mandible as a result of ameloblastoma , secondary reconstruction of a mandible with associated old fractures and malalignment of segments , bilateral malar reconstruction in a patient with treacher collins syndrome , and severe sequelae of an already treated romberg case . small variations could be made to best accommodate the technique used to the defect we were treating . some technical details , the experience , the results , and possible sequelae or complications are also discussed . 
metastatic melanoma to the facial nerve . isolated metastatic malignant melanoma to the facial nerve has never been reported . this presentation illustrates a primary melanoma of the helix of the ear that was treated by excisional biopsy and then wedge resection in 1983 . the primary melanoma was clark 's level iv and 1.3 mm in thickness . in 1985 , a facial paresis slowly developed . there was no gross evidence of recurrent melanoma in the ear or neck , but ct scan showed a mass in the region of the stylo mastoid foramen . a reoperation of the primary site revealed metastatic melanoma in the facial nerve , expanding it to approximately 10 times its normal size . a composite resection was done for the melanoma , and the paralyzed face was immediately rehabilitated by a masseter muscle transfer . the patient received 6000 rads to this area postoperatively and has remained free of disease to date , having returned to his profession as a dentist . a detailed study of all the specimens indicated that this represented a primary metastasis to the facial nerve . 
an evaluation of the distinction of ectopic and pituitary acth dependent cushing 's syndrome by clinical features , biochemical tests and radiological findings . the efficiency of various laboratory and radiological investigations in the differentiation of ectopic from pituitary dependent cushing 's syndrome was studied , based on findings in 23 patients with verified cushing 's disease and seven patients with the ectopic acth syndrome . clinical features strongly favouring the ectopic type were male sex and history for less than 18 months . basal biochemical features strongly indicating the ectopic syndrome included plasma k + less than 3.0 mmol/l and hco3 greater than 30 mmol/l ; serum cortisol at 9 a.m. or midnight of greater than 800 nmol/l ; urine free cortisol greater than 1300 nmol/24 hours ; plasma acth greater than 100 ng/l . in the high-dose dexamethasone suppression test , suppression by less than 50 per cent of 9 a.m. serum cortisol , urine free cortisol or 17-oxogenic steroids was usually indicative of an ectopic source of acth . a mean suppressed value of greater than 450 nmol/l for the 9 a.m. and midnight cortisol combined occurred in all of those with the ectopic syndrome , but in none of the 23 patients with cushing 's disease . for urine free cortisol , a mean suppressed value of less than 1000 nmol/24 hours was found in all patients with cushing 's disease , but in none of those in the ectopic group . in the metyrapone test , there was an increase of less than or equal to 3-fold in 11-deoxycortisol at 24 hours in patients with ectopic acth ; the increase was greater than 3-fold in all but one of the patients with cushing 's disease . failure to respond to either dexamethasone or metyrapone was found in only one of the patients with cushing 's disease ( patient 16 ) ; in the ectopic group , all patients except patient d failed to respond to either test . it is concluded that patients presenting with clinically obvious cushing 's syndrome along with measurable plasma acth can be reliably divided by conventional tests into those that are driven from the pituitary and those driven by ectopic acth . 
clinical features and natural history of von hippel-lindau disease the clinical features , age at onset and survival of 152 patients with von hippel-lindau disease were studied . mean age at onset was 26.3 years and 97 per cent of patients had presented by aged 60 years . retinal angioma was the first manifestation in 65 patients ( 43 per cent ) , followed by cerebellar haemangioblastoma ( n = 60 , 39 per cent ) and renal cell carcinoma ( n = 15 , 10 per cent ) . overall , 89 patients ( 59 per cent ) developed a cerebellar haemangioblastoma , 89 ( 59 per cent ) a retinal angioma , 43 ( 28 per cent ) renal cell carcinoma , 20 ( 13 per cent ) spinal haemangioblastoma and 11 ( 7 per cent ) a phaeochromocytoma . renal , pancreatic and epididymal cysts were frequent findings but their exact incidence was not accurately assessed . mean age at diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma ( 44.0 + / - 10.9 years ) was significantly older than that for cerebellar haemangioblastoma ( 29.0 + / - 10.0 years ) and retinal angioma ( 25.4 + / - 12.7 years ) . the probability of a patient with von hippel-lindan disease developing a cerebellar haemangioblastoma , retinal angioma or renal cell carcinoma by age 60 years was 0.84 , 0.7 and 0.69 , respectively . a comprehensive screening protocol for affected patients and at-risk relatives is presented , based on detailed analysis of age at onset data for each of the major complications . median actuarial survival was 49 years , with renal cell carcinoma the leading cause of death . 
genetic mechanisms of tumor suppression by the human p53 gene . mutations of the gene encoding p53 , a 53-kilodalton cellular protein , are found frequently in human tumor cells , suggesting a crucial role for this gene in human oncogenesis . to model the stepwise mutation or loss of both p53 alleles during tumorigenesis , a human osteosarcoma cell line , saos-2 , was used that completely lacked endogenous p53 . single copies of exogenous p53 genes were then introduced by infecting cells with recombinant retroviruses containing either point-mutated or wild-type versions of the p53 cdna sequence . expression of wild-type p53 suppressed the neoplastic phenotype of saos-2 cells , whereas expression of mutated p53 conferred a limited growth advantage to cells in the absence of wild-type p53 . wild-type p53 was phenotypically dominant to mutated p53 in a two-allele configuration . these results suggest that , as with the retinoblastoma gene , mutation of both alleles of the p53 gene is essential for its role in oncogenesis . 
reoperation for colorectal carcinoma . in the management of the patient with intra-abdominal recurrence of colorectal carcinoma , surgery remains the primary mode of therapy when cure or significant palliation is anticipated . appreciation of the importance of close follow-up after primary resection coupled with improved diagnostic modalities has allowed the surgeon not only to detect earlier recurrence but also to select the patients most likely to benefit from resection of recurrent disease . improved surgical techniques with resultant decreases in the rates of morbidity and mortality have allowed safe hepatic resection of metastatic disease . in selected patients , this procedure produces 5-year survival rates approaching 50 % . although a clear consensus has not been reached , most studies agree that positive prognostic indicators include absence of extrahepatic disease , a small number of intrahepatic lesions , a low cea level , and a better dukes stage of the primary . likewise , in the patient with recurrent disease locally , surgery provides the only means of cure and also plays a significant role in palliation . aggressive resection with generous surgical margins in patients with contained disease may yield 5-year survival rates approaching 35 % . in patients with unresectable disease and even in those with carcinomatosis , palliation can be obtained by surgical therapy . judgment is necessary in treating these patients both preoperatively and intraoperatively . surgical intervention for obstruction , perforation , or other anatomic or physiological compromise is often indicated and can improve the quality of life of the patient with intra-abdominal recurrence . 
treatment of renal cell carcinoma by extracorporeal partial nephrectomy and autotransplantation using splenic vascular anastomosis . a patient with large left lower pole renal cell carcinoma in a solitary kidney is presented . the patient was treated by partial nephrectomy and autotransplantation using splenic arterial and venous anastomoses . the potential for reducing operative morbidity compared with autotransplantation to the iliac fossa is discussed . 
a prospective study of double diagnosis of nonpalpable lesions of the breast . approximately three-fourths of open biopsies of the breast performed for mammographically detected suspicious lesions are shown histologically to be benign . under the narrow conditions described herein , stereotaxic fine-needle aspiration ( fna ) can identify these lesions with an accuracy of more than 90 per cent and a false-negative rate of 5 per cent . in an effort to reduce this failure rate , the mammographic appearance and stereotaxic fna results of these lesions each were given scores on a scale of zero ( benign ) to five ( malignant ) , to derive an over-all risk score prospectively applied to 264 suspicious occult lesions of the breast prior to open , biopsy . while all 264 lesions could be assigned a mammographic score , adequate tissue for assignment of a cytologic score could be obtained from 150 lesions . of the 150 evaluable lesions , 53 were malignant and 97 were benign , historically . with a total score of two as the threshold for open biopsy , 21 of 150 ( 14 per cent ) were proved to be benign , with no false-negative findings . if the total threshold score mandating an open biopsy was raised to four , the comparable figures were 61 of 150 ( 40 per cent ) benign lesions and two false-negative instances of carcinoma in situ . provided adequate tissue is aspirated for cytologic examination , we conclude that this algorithm has practical value in the management of nonpalpable lesions of the breast in that it can reliably identify a fraction of the benign lesions and spare these patients an operation . 
simple technique for long term central venous access in the patient with thrombocytopenic carcinoma . a technique for the insertion of a central venous access device in the patient with thrombocytopenia is described . using the seldinger technique , a wire is placed into the internal jugular vein . a catheter tunneled from the anterior part of the chest is inserted through a peel-away sheath into the central venous system . the incision is then closed . 
the merkel cell and associated neoplasms in the eyelids and periocular region . merkel cells are clear oval cells in the epidermis and outer root sheaths of hair follicles , which are probably of epithelial origin , share ultrastructural features with neuroendocrine cells , and are found in association with touch receptors . in the eyelid , they occur singly in the epidermis and external root sheaths of hairs and eyelashes , and in specialized touch spots alternating with eyelashes . their typical electron microscopical and antigenic features include dense-core granules , intranuclear rodlets , spinous processes , and a positive reaction for specific cytokeratins , epithelial membrane antigen , neuron-specific enolase , chromogranin and synaptophysin . merkel cell carcinoma probably develops from precursor cells which give rise to keratinocytes and merkel cells , and nearly one out of ten merkel cell carcinomas occur in the eyelid and periocular region . they tend to be bulging lesions near the lid margin of elderly patients , reddish in color , and erythematous with telangiectatic vessels . the diagnosis is based on the frequent presence of neurofilaments and paranuclear aggregates of intermediate filaments in addition to features typical of normal merkel cells . the tumor often mimics lymphoma or undifferentiated carcinoma and frequently invades lymphatic vessels . one third of merkel cell carcinomas recur , almost two thirds give rise to regional node metastases , and up to one half metastasize widely and result in death . initial treatment should be prompt and aggressive , with wide resection and routine postoperative irradiation . although metastatic lesions often respond to radiation therapy and cytostatic drugs , these treatments are mainly of palliative value . 
chest wall involvement by lung cancer : computed tomographic detection and results of operation . the aim of this prospective study was to evaluate : ( 1 ) the role of computed tomographic scanning in predicting chest wall invasion by peripheral lung cancer and ( 2 ) the results of operation according to the depth of chest wall involvement and other potential indicators of long-term survival . one hundred twelve patients with non-small cell lung cancer adjacent to the pleural surface who underwent computed tomographic scanning and subsequent thoracotomy were entered into this study . tumor invasion was confined to the visceral pleura in 53 patients , to the parietal pleura in 18 patients , and to intercostal muscles in 25 patients ; invasion extended beyond this layer in 16 patients . the computed tomographic criteria for chest wall invasion were ( 1 ) obliteration of the extrapleural fat plane , ( 2 ) the length of the tumor-pleura contact , ( 3 ) the ratio between the tumor-pleura contact and the tumor diameter , ( 4 ) the angle of the tumor with the pleura , ( 5 ) a mass involving the chest wall , and ( 6 ) rib destruction . the computed tomographic criteria 1 and 3 were significantly related to pathologic findings . sensitivity was 85 % for criterion 1 and 83 % for criterion 3 , specificity being 87 % and 80 % , respectively . long-term survival of patients with t3 disease critically depended on the lymph node state and completeness of resection . the adenocarcinoma cell type and the t4 category were unfavorable prognostic factors . the depth of chest wall invasion did not affect survival , except for extensive rib and soft tissue infiltration . en bloc resection yielded better results than discontinuous resection . 
esophageal malignancies : is preoperative radiotherapy the way to go ? during the period 1969 to 1988 , 68 patients with esophageal malignancy were subjected to preoperative radiotherapy consisting of 30 gy over 3 weeks followed by esophagectomy after a wait of 2 weeks . sixty-two of 68 patients ( 91 % ) were followed up retrospectively ( 5-year survival rate , 17.2 % ; 10-year survival rate , 4.8 % ) . radiosensitivity of the tumor was graded by a radiation effect scoring method devised by us , and this was found to correlate with long-term prognosis ( p = 0.05 ) . radiotherapy " sterilized " malignant involvement of adventitia and draining lymph nodes in 8 patients and thereby converted " palliative " into potentially " curative " resections with a mean survival of 57.2 months in this group of patients . preoperative radiotherapy was found to increase the survival , decrease the incidence of residual tumor at the resected stump , reduce the incidence of local recurrence , and increase the resectability rate . 
response to chemotherapy does not predict survival after resection of sarcomatous pulmonary metastases . between 1979 and 1988 , 26 patients with pulmonary metastases from adult soft-tissue sarcomas were treated with adriamycin ( doxorubicin hydrochloride ) , cytoxan ( cyclophosphamide ) , and dtic before metastasectomy . thirty-eight thoracotomies were performed with postoperative complications in 5 patients ( 5/38 , 13.2 % ) and one postoperative death ( 1/38 , 2.6 % ) . two patients had benign lesions at thoracotomy and were excluded from further survival analysis . the median survival of the remaining 24 patients after thoracotomy was 18.5 + / - 5.9 months , and the actuarial 5-year survival was 22 % . five patients ( 5/24 , 21 % ) achieved a clinically complete response with preoperative chemotherapy , but all had recurrence in the lung and underwent resection of pulmonary metastases . seven patients ( 7/24 , 29 % ) achieved a partial response and had residual disease resected at thoracotomy . twelve patients ( 12/24 , 50 % ) showed either no change or disease progression while receiving chemotherapy and were referred for resection . postthoracotomy disease-free survival and postthoracotomy overall survival did not differ significantly between the three groups . one patient in the group showing no change or progression of disease while receiving chemotherapy is alive without recurrence 57 months after initial pulmonary metastasectomy . chemotherapy can be used for the initial treatment of pulmonary metastases from adult soft-tissue sarcomas . however , survival after resection of pulmonary metastases can not be accurately predicted based on the clinical response to preoperative chemotherapy . 
aggressive surgical intervention in n2 non-small cell cancer of the lung . an aggressive attitude toward surgical treatment was taken in patients with n2 non-small cell lung cancer in the past 10 years . computed tomographic scanning was employed in the diagnosis of n2 disease , and had a true-positive rate of 57 % . among patients with n2 disease detected by computed tomographic scanning , surgical intervention was attempted except for those with unresectable disease . of 190 patients with clinical n2 disease , 115 underwent surgical exploration : 9 patients had only an exploratory thoracotomy , 53 patients underwent a curative operation , and 53 had a noncurative operation . the overall 5-year survival rate of these patients was 16 % and that of curatively resected patients was 20 % . there were 47 patients whose n2 disease was not recognized before operation . the 5-year survival rate of this group was 20 % overall and 33 % in curatively resected cases . the overall 5-year survival rate of patients with n2 disease who underwent resection ( 106 with clinical n2 disease and 47 with clinically unrecognized n2 disease ) was 17 % , and that of the 84 patients undergoing curative operations was 24 % . an aggressive attitude toward surgical intervention can be advocated for patients with n2 disease on the basis of our present results . 
nephrotic syndrome complicating adenocarcinoma of the lung with resolution after resection . nephrotic syndrome is an uncommon complication of lung cancer . we present a case in which adenocarcinoma was complicated by the nephrotic syndrome , which resolved after resection of the cancer . 
surgical strategy for early gastric cancer . the diagnostic and therapeutic options in early gastric cancer are reviewed . in japan , the rate of detection of early gastric cancers has increased so that minute gastric cancers can now be identified as a result of advances in diagnostic methods . the results of histopathological staging of a large number of resected specimens have led to three surgical options based on size and depth of the primary lesion , namely classical r2 resection , radical resection with limited lymphadenectomy and endoscopic surgery . 
adrenal insufficiency in the cancer patient : implications for the surgeon . aspects of acute and chronic adrenal insufficiency of interest to surgeons who treat cancer patients are reviewed . clinical features and the management of both primary and secondary types are considered with reference to classification , aetiology , diagnosis and treatment . specifically considered are the management of patients with addison 's disease and metastases . prompt recognition and treatment of adrenal insufficiency can avert potentially life-threatening situations . 
adjuvant chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil , vincristine and ccnu for patients with dukes ' c colorectal cancer . the swedish gastrointestinal tumour adjuvant therapy group . a prospective controlled randomized trial testing adjuvant postoperative combination chemotherapy ( 5-fluorouracil , lomustine ( ccnu ) and vincristine ) versus no adjuvant therapy in patients operated on for dukes ' c colorectal cancer is reported . in total 334 patients aged less than 70 years were recruited : 205 patients with colonic and 99 with rectal cancer , but there were three protocol violations and these cases are excluded from further consideration . twenty-seven patients had a limited resection of their cancer . after 5 years ' follow-up there was no significant difference in the tumour-free survival rate or in the survival rate between the treated and control groups . twenty-nine of the 147 patients who started chemotherapy discontinued this treatment because of side-effects , mainly from the gastrointestinal tract . in 30 patients treatment was discontinued because of recurrent disease . the conclusion is that systemic administration of combination chemotherapy for colorectal cancer after operation is not worthwhile in routine clinical practice . 
value of retesting subjects with a positive hemoccult in screening for colorectal cancer . within a prospective randomized screening study for early detection of colorectal cancer with rehydrated hemoccult ii test , the possibility of increasing the specificity of the test by retesting patients with an initially positive hemoccult ii test was investigated . of those offered the test 3561 ( 62.6 per cent ) returned it and it was positive in 210 cases ( 5.9 per cent ) . the repeat test was performed by 184 patients and was positive in 68 ( 1.9 per cent ) . all those with a positive initial test had rectosigmoidoscopy to 60 cm and a double contrast enema . a carcinoma was found in one in seven patients with a positive retest but in only one in 100 patients with a negative retest ( p less than 0.001 ) . the specificity of the test was , therefore , increased from 95 per cent to 98 per cent and the sensitivity was unchanged . rescreening was offered at a later date and increased numbers were available : 7147 patients returned the test and 369 ( 5.2 per cent ) were positive . the test was repeated in 360 patients and 118 ( 1.7 per cent ) were positive . a colorectal neoplasm was found in one in three of those with a positive repeat test , compared with one in seven of those with a negative repeat test . in conclusion , screening for early detection of colorectal cancer with a rehydrated hemoccult ii test may be followed by investigation of only those patients with a positive retest . such a procedure will reduce the work-load by 60 per cent without reducing sensitivity . 
epidermal growth factor receptor expression in colorectal cancer . epidermal growth factor ( egf ) receptor expression was estimated in 50 invasive human colorectal cancers using immunohistochemistry and the degree of expression was quantified from integrated optical density measurements on the stained sections . all tumours stained positively , but dukes ' c tumours exhibited significantly higher levels of receptor than either dukes ' a or b tumours . in addition , histologically high grade cancers expressed receptors more strongly than those of low grade . it is concluded that a high egf receptor concentration is associated with poor prognostic factors in colorectal malignancy . 
risk of cancer death in first-degree relatives of patients with hereditary non-polyposis cancer syndrome ( lynch type ii ) : a study of 130 kindreds in the united kingdom . to estimate the relative risks of cancer in first-degree relatives of index patients , 130 pedigrees of dominantly inherited lynch type ii cancer family syndrome have been analysed . the risk of death from all causes was significantly increased in women over 45 years of age and the overall liability to cancer in women was greater than for men . a sevenfold increase in risk of colon cancer was found in both sexes . in female relatives the risk of breast cancer was increased fivefold and lifetime risk of breast cancer was 1 in 3.7 . a screening programme based on estimated risks could be offered to first-degree relatives of index patients with lynch type ii cancer family syndrome . 
levamisole and 5-fluorouracil therapy for resected colon cancer : a new indication . objective : to evaluate the benefits and risks of postoperative treatment with levamisole plus 5-fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) in patients with colon cancer . design : computerized searches of medline and cancerlit were performed , and the reference list of each retrieved article was checked . only randomized trials of therapy with levamisole alone or combined with 5-fu for colon cancer without distant metastases were included . the studies were then evaluated with the use of four criteria . results : we reviewed six randomized trials , of which three satisfied our criteria . two studies demonstrated a significant improvement in the survival rate with levamisole plus 5-fu among patients with colon cancer and pathologically confirmed metastases to adjacent lymph nodes ( dukes ' stage c ) . a subgroup analysis in another study demonstrated a similar benefit . the toxic effects of the drugs were generally mild . the three other studies showed no difference in survival rates between the treatment groups ; however , the samples were too small to detect a clinically or statistically important difference . conclusions : because many patients with colon cancer will suffer a relapse we recommend that they be offered the opportunity to participate in clinical trials of adjuvant therapy . for those with stage c disease not entering a clinical trial levamisole plus 5-fu is appropriate adjuvant therapy . 
macrophage colony-stimulating factor activity in malignant pleural effusions . its augmentation by intrapleural interleukin-2 infusions . the activity of endogenous colony-stimulating factor ( csf ) in malignant pleural effusions of lung cancer patients before and during daily intrapleural infusions of recombinant interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) was measured quantitatively by colony-forming bioassay and radioimmunoassay ( ria ) . before therapy , malignant pleural effusions had various levels of csf activities , and this csf activity was neutralized almost completely by anti-m-csf antibody . ria also showed that the effusions contained various amounts of m-csf . daily intrapleural infusion of recombinant il-2 caused significant increase in the csf activities and m-csf levels in pleural effusions . these results indicate that in vivo treatment with il-2 induces production of endogenous m-csf . 
catecholamine-induced cardiomyopathy in multiple endocrine neoplasia . a histologic , ultrastructural , and biochemical study . a catecholamine-induced dilated cardiomyopathy is reported in a patient with multiple endocrine neoplasia , type 3 . a histologic and ultrastructural study has been undertaken in cardiac biopsy samples , together with determination of myocardial ca + + and cellular membrane fatty acids . contraction band necrosis of cardiocytes with supercontraction of sarcomeres progressing to myofibrolysis and increased levels of myocardial ca + + have been found as morphologic and biochemical abnormalities , respectively . no lipoperoxidation of cellular membranes or an alpha-adrenergic mediated reduction of coronary supply could be recognized in the study . we indicate a receptor-mediated intracellular ca + + overload as the main abnormality responsible for myocardial impairment . 
atopy and primary lung cancer . histology and sex distribution . atopy , defined as the ability to develop ige antibodies to commonly encountered allergens under conditions of normal exposure , has an inherited component with pleiotropic effects . an inverse relationship between the occurrence of atopy , allergy-related diseases , and cancers at specific sites has been reported . the familial association of primary lung cancer is most evident among women , nonsmokers , and those with adenocarcinomas . in order to determine whether the relationship between a lower prevalence of atopy among patients with lung cancer compared to control subjects was consistent between histologic cell types , we used seven common allergens to allergy prick skin test 209 community control subjects ( 46 women ) , 109 cases with primary squamous cell carcinoma of the lung ( 25 women ) , and 67 patients with primary adenocarcinomas of the lung ( 23 women ) . we have confirmed earlier reports of an inverse relationship between atopy and lung cancer risk . in analyses focusing on sex and histologic cell type , we found that women with adenocarcinomas were an exception and were as likely to be atopic as control subjects . the evidence does not support a protective role for atopy among these women . 
the acute and insidious onset of pulmonary metastatic transitional cell carcinoma . transitional cell carcinoma is a common urologic neoplasm . although pulmonary metastases from this tumor are often not appreciated clinically , they are frequently documented in autopsy studies . therefore , the clinical recognition of this condition can be problematic . to illustrate this point , we present three patients with progressive unexplained dyspnea and histories of transitional cell carcinoma . since ineffective and possibly detrimental therapeutic approaches may be initiated , a high index of suspicion for pulmonary metastatic embolization must be maintained . early histologic identification of these metastatic emboli and initiation of effective chemotherapy may prove beneficial for improved quality of life . 
retinoid modulation of insulin-like growth factor-binding proteins and inhibition of breast carcinoma proliferation . retinoids induce cellular differentiation and inhibit cellular proliferation . proliferation of human breast carcinoma cells in vitro is markedly inhibited by these compounds . on the other hand , insulin-like growth factors ( igfs ) and their receptors seem to be involved in the growth of certain breast carcinoma cells by autocrine or paracrine effects . since the effects of both igf-i and igf-ii may be modulated by specific binding proteins ( igf-bps ) we examined the possibility that one mechanism by which retinoic acid may inhibit cancer growth is by an alteration in these bps , thereby blocking igf 's growth effect . retinoic acid ( ra ; 1 microm ) completely blocked the effect of igf-i ( 50 ng/ml ) on enhancing proliferation of mcf-7 cells in culture . this effect of ra was not associated with any significant change in specific igf-i-binding sites on these cells . ra induced a 3-fold increase in igf-binding activity in conditioned medium , measured using a polyethylene glycol-immunoglobulin precipitation assay and a charcoal absorption assay . this increase was associated with the appearance of 42 - and 46-kda igf-bps on ligand blotting . the effect of ra on these igf-bps was time and concentration dependent . in contrast , during some experiments the 27 - and 36-kda bps actually decreased . these findings support the hypothesis that ra may inhibit the growth of certain breast carcinoma cells by increasing the secretion of certain igf-bps , which could directly modulate the growth effect of igfs . 
reviewing the unicystic ameloblastoma : report of two cases . classification of ameloblastoma into solid , multicystic , unicystic , and peripheral types based on clinical appearance and effects has gained recent recognition . the unicystic ameloblastoma is a less encountered variant of the ameloblastoma . it appears more frequently in the second or third decade with no sexual or racial predilection . it is almost exclusively encountered asymptomatically in the posterior mandible . the following report of two cases discusses the pathophysiology , demographics , histology , and prognosis of the unicystic ameloblastoma . 
a multicentre follow-up study of 1152 patients with myasthenia gravis in italy . a multicentre retrospective study was carried out on the characteristics and course of myasthenia gravis ( mg ) in italy . data from 1152 patients , fairly representative of the myasthenic population seeking medical advice , were analysed for diagnostic criteria , clinical aspects and therapeutic approaches . mean follow-up was 4.9 years . the disease was correctly diagnosed within 2 years of the onset in 80 % of cases . onset of symptoms peaked in the second and third decade in females and fell between 20 and 59 years in males . at first observation 87 % of the patients had generalized mg . maximal worsening was observed within 3 years in 77 % of patients . at the last follow-up , 35 % of cases were symptom-free ( pharmacological remission 24 % , remission without treatment 11 % ) . the more severe the disease at the first observation and at the maximal worsening of symptoms , the lower was the proportion of remissions . steroids were given in 54 % and immunosuppressants in 18 % . thymectomy was performed in 72 % , mostly in women , younger than age 40 , and with generalized mg . thymectomy seemed to improve the course of the disease , mostly in patients operated on shortly after diagnosis and those with generalized mild-to-moderate disease and with a normally involuted thymus . mg was lethal in 4 % of patients , principally men , older than 40 , in grade 3 or worse at first observation , with a short history of disease , and with thymona . 
oculo-bulbar myasthenic symptoms as the sole sign of tumour involving or compressing the brain stem . four patients with tumours involving or compressing the brain stem are described whose initial clinical symptoms of fluctuating paresis of the external ocular muscles and/or the pharyngeal muscles without other neurological deficits led to the primary diagnosis of focal myasthenia . the combination of an unusual clinical pattern , involvement of muscles of only one ocular nerve or severe dysphagia/dysarthria without extension of the myasthenic symptoms , should lead to further investigation to exclude other reasons of a focal myasthenic syndrome such as a brain-stem tumour . 
primary intracerebral sarcoma in childhood : case report with electron-microscope study . a case of a primary intracerebral sarcoma is described in a 5-year-old girl . histology and immunohistochemistry excluded the diagnosis of a leiomyosarcoma , a malignant haemangiopericytoma or a fibrosarcoma ; electron-microscopical findings indicated that the origin of the sarcoma was in the pia mater . 
evaluation of the serum level of immunosuppressive substance in oral cancer patients . the serum level of immunosuppressive substance ( is ) was studied in 40 patients with primary oral cancer and in 79 patients without cancer . its usefulness was evaluated as a parameter for monitoring therapy as well as recurrence of the tumors . mean values for serum is in patients with cancer and patients without were 687 + / - 284 micrograms/ml and 464 + / - 153 micrograms/ml , respectively . normal healthy controls had a mean value of 431 + / - 105 micrograms/ml , with the cutoff value set at 641 micrograms/ml ( mean +2 sd ) . patients without cancer who had a severe infectious disease showed conspicuously high serum is levels , and these values were closely correlated with their c-reactive protein values . the positive rate of is increased in all patients with oral cancer was 58 % . the mean level of serum is in cancer patients was significantly higher than that of the controls ( p less than .01 ) , and the level was found to be more elevated as the stage of the disease advanced ( stage i to iii , 48 % ; stage iv , 68 % ) . histologic analysis of the tumor cells in patients with squamous cell carcinoma ( scc ) showed that the mean serum is level of those who had poorly differentiated scc was much higher ( 937 + / - 181 micrograms/ml ) than that of patients with well-differentiated scc ( 616 + / - 159 micrograms/ml ) . patients who had recurrent or metastatic cancer , or those who died from the cancer exhibited marked elevation of the serum is levels , whereas patients who remained free of cancer in the follow-up period showed significantly lower serum is levels . the rise and fall of the serum is level was closely correlated with the disease progression and/or remission . these data strongly suggest that serum is is a useful parameter for monitoring the disease stage as well as the effect of therapy on patients with oral cancer . 
vulvar paget 's disease . is immunocytochemistry helpful in assessing the surgical margins ? from january 1977 to december 1988 , 19 patients with biopsy-proven paget 's disease of the vulva underwent simple or radical vulvectomy at the university of miami/jackson memorial medical center . all vulvectomy specimens were evaluated immunocytochemically for the expression of carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) , epithelial membrane antigen ( ema ) and low-molecular-weight keratins 8 and 18 ( lmk ) , both in areas containing neoplastic cells and in histologically negative surgical margins . neoplastic paget 's cells stained positively for cea in all cases ; they were positive for ema and lmk in 18 and 17 cases , respectively . in all eight cases with underlying in situ or invasive carcinomas , cea , ema and lmk were localized in the underlying tumors as well . none of the histologically proven negative margins reacted for cea , ema or lmk on immunocytochemistry . cea appears to be a valuable immunocytochemical marker for extramammary paget 's disease ; ema and lmk are also expressed by the majority of such cases . none of these markers , however , is of added value in identifying paget 's cells in surgical margins if those margins appear negative on routine hematoxylin-and-eosin staining . 
immunohistochemical investigations of estrogen receptors in normal and neoplastic squamous epithelium of the vulva . atrophic disease of the vulvar epithelium can be treated with steroids , but carcinoma of the vulva can not be influenced with any hormone therapy . seventy-one vulvar specimens were tested for estrogen receptor ( er ) content by means of immunohistochemistry . slight er staining was found in nonkeratinizing squamous epithelium in 17 of 22 cases . a weak er reaction in the basal and parabasal layers was found in only 2 of 17 specimens of keratinizing squamous epithelium . however , no er was found in any neoplastic tissue of the vulva or the adjacent stroma . the loss of er in neoplastic cells could explain the clinical experience that antihormonal treatment of vulvar carcinomas produces no appreciable improvement . 
granular cell tumors of the vulva . granular cell tumor ( gct ) , although nearly ubiquitous , is seen infrequently in the vulva . a review of the surgical pathology files from grady memorial hospital , atlanta , georgia , from 1983 through 1987 identified eight cases of vulvar gct . five of the eight patients had more than one skin and soft tissue lesion . two of the five had biopsy-proven multicentric gct with a unique clinical course . one of the patients was a 32-year-old woman with multiple vulvar , lingual , laryngeal , bronchial and pulmonary gct , necessitating multiple excisions and ultimately pneumonectomy . the second patient had multiple gcts in the vulva and inguinal area and finally in both lungs , resulting in her death at age 39 . no dependable microscopic features could be identified to distinguish benign gct from its more aggressive variant . however , feulgen dna histomorphometry demonstrated aneuploidy in the patient with apparent lung metastases , whereas the tumors from patients with a benign course as well as from the patient with multiorgan involvement were diploid . in three of five patients who could be interviewed there was a history of soft tissue tumors in members of the family . the multifocal nature and possible familial component of gct need to be explored further . 
periurethral colonic-type polyp simulating urethral caruncle . a case report . a 50-year-old , black woman presented with a 1-cm , polypoid lesion on the posterior edge of the urethral meatus that had the gross appearance of a urethral caruncle . the histologic features , however , revealed a superficially ulcerated lesion composed of colonic-type mucosal glands with focal regenerative atypia in response to inflammation . a similar histologic pattern is also found in so-called solitary rectal ulcer syndrome and inflammatory cloacogenic polyps arising in the anorectal area . based upon an english-language literature review , this case appears to be the second reported one of an intestinal-type polyp in this location . the patient had no further problems after excisional biopsy . 
vulvar condylomas and squamous vestibular micropapilloma . differences in appearance and response to treatment . a study of 37 women with typical condylomas and so-called squamous micropapilloma was undertaken to determine their response to systemic interferon and/or podophyllin treatment . thirty lesions were classified as condylomas and 9 as squamous micropapillomas ; two women had both lesions . twenty-six ( 87 % ) of 30 condylomas responded , whereas only 1 ( 11 % ) of the 9 cases of micropapillomatosis showed a partial response ( p less than .001 ) to podophyllin and/or interferon . twenty-six biopsies from condylomas in which sufficient dna was available for analysis contained human papillomavirus ( hpv ) dna sequences that hybridized to an hpv 6 + 16 probe mix under nonstringent conditions . in contrast , hpv dna sequences could not be detected in any of the nine cases of micropapillomatosis . immunoperoxidase studies performed on these lesions failed to demonstrate viral capsid antigen . thus , despite certain similarities in the clinical presentation and microscopic features of condylomas and squamous micropapillomas , it is not clear at present whether micropapillomas are hpv-related lesions . 
vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia . a clinicopathologic study of 60 cases . sixty cases of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia ( vin ) were analyzed clinicopathologically ( 24 vin i , 9 vin ii , 27 vin iii ) . the ages of the patients ranged from 21 to 83 years ( mean , 53.7 ) . colposcopic examinations showed the presence of white areas in 29 cases , red areas in 9 , acetowhite areas in 6 and other alterations in 13 . one-third of the lesions were multifocal . pruritus and burning were present in 65 % of the cases . fifty-one percent of the cases showed histologic changes suggestive of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) infection ; the mean age of those patients was significantly lower than that of patients without hpv infection . in 15 cases of vin , hpv dna testing was performed with southern blot hybridization ; in three ( 20 % ) of those specimens hpv 16 episomal dna was identified . epithelial alterations surrounding the areas of vin were found in 24 cases ( 40 % ) -23 squamous cellular hyperplasias and 1 lichen sclerosus . different types of treatment were performed according to the different grades of vin : medical therapy , diathermocoagulation , local excision , hemivulvectomy and total vulvectomy . follow-up was possible in 52 cases , with a mean of 33 months ( range , 3-98 ) . two cases of vin i showed progression of disease over 12-24 months . 
multimodality therapy for advanced and recurrent vulvar squamous cell carcinoma . a pilot project . from 1985 to 1989 eight women with advanced or recurrent vulvar carcinoma were treated at the women 's cancer center of the university of minnesota hospital and clinic . each received a combination of 5-fluorouracil , mitomycin c and cisplatin during radiotherapy . five of the eight women who underwent posttreatment radical vulvectomy had acceptable operative morbidity . six patients experienced a complete clinical response . of them , one had microscopic residual disease in the surgical specimen . one patient with recurrent vulvar carcinoma experienced progression of disease on therapy . one death was attributable to chemotherapy toxicity , and two patients died of intercurrent disease . the overall survival rate at 27 months was 33 % . this multimodality approach to the treatment of advanced vulvar carcinoma should be considered when designing a therapeutic approach to treating extensive or resistant vulvar carcinoma . 
value of four models for selecting patients for local excision of invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva . for 75 women with squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva who underwent radical vulvectomy and inguinofemoral lymphadenectomy , the authors assessed the efficacy of four models for selecting patients who could have been treated adequately with local excision of the tumor . each of the three models proposed by andreasson and nyboe covered 25 % of the patients , none of whom had groin metastases or died of cancer . local recurrence in the vulva occurred in 10 % . a model suggested by the international society for the study of vulvar disease covered almost 10 % of the patients . one of seven patients had groin metastases , none died of cancer , and one of seven developed local recurrence in the vulva . the criteria of the clinically best suited model are tumor not situated on the clitoris and less than 4 cm in diameter , with only slight hyperchromasia . this model ought to be tested in a randomized study . 
the 1989 presidential address . international society for the study of vulvar disease . major changes in the terminology for vulvar disease have taken place in the past 20 years under the influence of the members of the international society for the study of vulvar disease . major terminology changes have been made for vulvar nonneoplastic disorders , vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia and superficially invasive squamous cell carcinoma . 
decreased local toxicity with subcutaneous diamorphine ( heroin ) : a preliminary report . we report the cases of 5 patients who developed severe local toxicity during the subcutaneous administration of morphine sulphate and hydromorphone hydrochloride . all patients required site changes more frequently than once every 24 h due to redness , swelling , or pain while receiving morphine or hydromorphone . all patients showed prolongation in the duration of sites of infusion once an equianalgesic dose of diamorphine hydrochloride ( heroin ) was started . no change in pain control or systemic toxicity was detected with diamorphine . these findings suggest that diamorphine could be a useful alternative for patients who develop severe toxicity to subcutaneous morphine or hydromorphone . 
literacy and laryngectomy : how should one treat head and neck cancer in patients who can not read or write ? the entire population of otolaryngologists and radiation oncologists ( n = 192 ) in active practice in the state of north carolina were surveyed to assess their level of awareness of illiteracy among adults in the united states and to determine whether these physicians consider illiteracy in the treatment decision process for patients with head and neck cancer . excluding respondents who did not treat patients with head and neck cancer and physicians practicing outside of the state of north carolina , the response rate was 115 of 182 , or 63 % . only 26 % of respondents were able to estimate correctly the prevalence of illiteracy in the us adult population . forty-one percent of respondents , however , stated that they did consider their patient 's ability to read and/or write before making treatment recommendations for head and neck cancer . this survey and accompanying literature review suggest that physicians perceive illiteracy as a problem that may have a significant impact on patients with head and neck cancer , but lack the data needed to enable them to quantify the effect of illiteracy on treatment outcome . the study reported is the first step in examining ways in which illiteracy might negatively affect patient outcomes . 
paratesticular myxoma : an unusual benign intrascrotal neoplasm . we have presented a case of paratesticular myxoma and have described the clinical history , findings on light microscopy and immunohistochemistry , and possible pathogenesis . although primary paratesticular myxoma is a rare lesion , it should be considered in the differential diagnosis of intrascrotal mesenchymal tumors . 
wernicke-korsakoff syndrome complicating t-cell lymphoma : unusual or unrecognized ? malnutrition rather than alcohol abuse is the common element in most cases of wks . our report may be the first to identify both the clinical and neuropathologic features of the syndrome in a patient with t-cell lymphoma . the coincidence of these two illnesses underscores a need to consider wernicke 's encephalopathy in debilitated individuals with malignancy or other chronic illnesses , highlights an atypical presentation of acute wernicke 's encephalopathy , and demonstrats the precipitation of that syndrome by glucose feeding . attention to a patient 's nutritional status and the liberal use of thiamine may prompt early recognition of the syndrome or prevent it entirely . 
astroblastoma : electron microscopy and immunohistochemical findings : case report . the clinical , histological , immunohistochemical , and electron microscopic features of a cerebral astroblastoma are reported . the patient is a young woman with a superficial parietal tumor . macroscopic findings include a well-delineated superficial nodule with a hard central core . histological study disclosed a predominantly papillary tumor with hyalinized vessels . tumor cells were scarcely positive with immunohistochemical stain for glial fibrillary acidic protein , extensive and diffusely positive with vimentin and neuron-specific enolase , and intensely positive with s-100 and epithelial membrane antigen in the papillary areas . ultrastructural study showed abundant intermediate filaments forming bundles in tumoral cytoplasms , membrane junctions , and external laminae when cells were in contact with collagen fibers . based on immunohistochemical and ultrastructural characteristics , we believe that the filaments seen in tumor cells are mainly vimentin filaments . these peculiar immunohistochemical patterns in a glioma may aid in the histological diagnosis of this rare tumor type . 
intramedullary spinal cord germinoma : case report . a case of intramedullary spinal cord germinoma within the conus medullaris , with lumbago and pain in the lower extremities , is presented . the intramedullary spinal cord germinoma was determined by a biopsy specimen . after local irradiation of 50 gy , the tumor markedly decreased in size and clinical symptoms disappeared . 
glossopharyngeal schwannoma : review of five cases and the literature . glossopharyngeal schwannomas are rare tumors in spite of the fact that acoustic schwannomas account for 8 % -10 % of intracranial tumors . there have been 23 reported cases in the literature . this report of five cases is the largest series of these tumors . the presentation , radiological workup , operation , and long-term postoperative results will be presented , along with a review of the literature . 
infarct of the conus medullaris simulating a spinal cord tumor : case report . a 71-year-old woman had the sudden onset of a neurogenic bladder and a stepwise increase in paraparesis that left her unable to stand or walk . magnetic resonance imaging showed what appeared to be a tumor in the conus medullaris . after laminectomy , the lesion was localized by ultrasound examination , and a biopsy was performed . the deficits remained unchanged postoperatively . microscopic examination of the biopsy specimen showed necrosis and pathologic changes consistent with infarction of the conus medullaris . an anomalous arterial supply of the conus medullaris is the most likely cause of this unusual problem . the patient gradually regained her ability to walk , but the neurogenic bladder persists . 
ganglioneuroma of the spinal cord . this report describes a 2-year-old boy who harbored an intramedullary ganglioneuroma involving almost the entire length of the spinal cord . the terminology , pathology , and neurobiological behavior of this tumor is discussed . 
mammography and early breast cancer detection . screening mammography has been shown to reduce breast cancer mortality . both film-screen mammography and xeromammography are highly sensitive and specific . mammography accreditation programs assure physicians and patients that a facility provides mammography of the highest quality , using the lowest possible radiation dose . mammographic signs of early cancer include a small mass , calcifications , architectural distortion and a neodensity . dense tissue may result in a false-negative examination even when a cancer is palpable , with adverse effects if biopsy is delayed . 
genetic analysis of breast cancer in the cancer and steroid hormone study . the familial risk of breast cancer is investigated in a large population-based , case-control study conducted by the centers for disease control . the data set is based on 4,730 histologically confirmed breast cancer cases aged 20 to 54 years and on 4,688 controls who were frequency matched to cases on the basis of both geographic region and 5-year categories of age , and it includes family histories , obtained through interviews of cases and controls , of breast cancer in mothers and sisters . segregation analysis and goodness-of-fit tests of genetic models provide evidence for the existence of a rare autosomal dominant allele ( q = .0033 ) leading to increased susceptibility to breast cancer . the effect of genotype on the risk of breast cancer is shown to be a function of a woman 's age . although , compared with noncarriers , carriers of the allele appear to be at greater risk at all ages , the ratio of age-specific risks is greatest at young ages and declines steadily thereafter . the proportion of cases predicted to carry the allele is highest ( 36 % ) among cases aged 20-29 years . this proportion gradually decreases to 1 % among cases aged 80 years or older . the cumulative lifetime risk of breast cancer for women who carry the susceptibility allele is predicted to be high , approximately 92 % , while the cumulative lifetime risk for noncarriers is estimated to be approximately 10 % . 
contributions of the zollinger-ellison syndrome . the salient contributions of the zollinger-ellison syndrome have made it unique . no pancreatic endocrine tumor described before ( insulinoma ) or subsequently ( glucagonoma , somatostatinoma , vipoma , pancreatic-polypeptidoma ) has been the topic of such a variety of studies , or has been such an inspiration and rich source of new ideas for investigation and ultimate improvement in patient care . 
historical review of pancreaticoduodenectomy . the performance of pancreaticoduodenectomy by whipple in 1935 demonstrated that the operation was feasible technically and compatible with reasonable function after recovery . from the mid - to late 1940s until the last 10 years , the procedure was condemned by many because of its associated mortality and morbidity . for reasons that are not clear , the risk of pancreaticoduodenectomy in the last 10 years has fallen to less than 10 % and in several centers , less than 5 % . postoperative complications have been reduced and blood transfusions are unnecessary in an increasing number of patients . furthermore , a normal productive life without the need for medication and with no digestive disorder is expected . seventy-one percent of patients are able to return to their preoperative occupation . 
carcinoma of the ductus choledochus . a retrospective review of patients treated for carcinoma of the common bile duct has demonstrated improvement in diagnostic capabilities , leading to earlier management by resectional therapy . the ability to resect these tumors is directly translatable to improved long-term survival . efforts to obtain proof of malignancy prior to resection are often frustrated by the inability to obtain adequate representative tissue for frozen section . choledochoscopic biopsies and incisional biopsies have given the highest yield of positive diagnoses . in experienced hands , a program of fewer preoperative tests with emphasis on early operation , diagnosis , and definitive treatment may be more cost-effective in the management of patients with common bile duct cancer . 
germfree animals and technics in surgical research . germfree animals have been reared to a size , weight , and age permitting the performance of major surgical procedures and the pursuit of a variety of surgical research problems . germfree dogs have been maintained in the isolator system through three generations , indicating that life , reproduction , and growth are all possible in the absence of microbial contamination . the value of the germfree approach to surgical problems has been utilized in studies of a variety of gastrointestinal problems , shock , cancer , immunology , burns , wound healing , and in direct patient application . patients have been maintained in isolator environments for prevention of infection , for operative procedures , for treatment of extensive burns , and for management of immune-suppressed individuals . we conclude that germfree animals and germfree technics provide a valuable addition to the armamentarium of the surgeon in both research and clinical applications . 
vascular lesions of the intestines . this article reviews the pathology , pathophysiology , diagnosis , and treatment of vascular lesions of the intestine as a cause of gastrointestinal bleeding . in addition , a modified system for classifying such lesions , based on the author 's personal experience with such lesions , is presented . 
the effects of midazolam on cerebral blood flow and oxygen consumption . interaction with nitrous oxide in patients undergoing craniotomy for supratentorial cerebral tumours . cerebral blood flow and the cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen were measured in 30 patients during craniotomy for supratentorial cerebral tumours by a modification of the kety-schmidt technique using xenon 133 intravenously . anaesthesia was induced with midazolam 0.3 mg/kg , fentanyl and pancuronium , and maintained with midazolam as a continuous infusion , fentanyl , pancuronium and nitrous oxide in oxygen or oxygen in air . the concentration of midazolam in the blood of 10 patients was about 300 ng/litre during two measurements ; the patients ' lungs were ventilated with n2o in oxygen . the concentration of midazolam in the blood of another 10 patients was doubled to about 600 ng/litre during the second flow measurement ; the patients ' lungs were ventilated with n2o/o2 . the concentration of midazolam in the blood of the third group of 10 patients was doubled to 600 ng/litre during the second flow measurement ; the patients ' lungs were ventilated with oxygen in air . no relationship was found between the dose of midazolam and cerebral blood flow or oxygen consumption . nitrous oxide in combination with midazolam also had no effect on these variables . 
pregnancy associated with gorlin 's syndrome . a pregnant woman with gorlin 's syndrome presented for the removal of malignant ovarian tumours . the main problem encountered by the anaesthetists was an unexpected increase in arterial blood pressure . this was most probably associated with surgical manipulation of the ovaries with an increase in prorenin/renin production . 
cellular and molecular basis of the asbestos-related diseases . asbestosis is an inflammatory and fibrotic process of the alveolar structures mediated , at least in part , by cytokines released by " activated " alveolar macrophages . the process of phagocytosis and " activation " of alveolar macrophages is poorly understood . are all macrophages activated or only subpopulations ? which cytokines are up-regulated ? how does the local milieu modulate profibrotic and antifibrotic mediators ? is protein release accompanied by up-regulation of gene transcription ? is there an ordered sequence of cytokine activity ? what roles do neutrophils and lymphocytes play ? how can disease progression best be quantified absent further exposure ? answers to these questions are important to direct rational strategies at interdicting the fibrotic process . the question of cancer and asbestos is more vexing . the processes of inflammation , fibrosis , and carcinogenesis appear to be closely intertwined . for example , proto-oncogenes such as c-sis ( pdgf b-chain ) are up-regulated in activated alveolar macrophages from fibrotic lungs ; these and possibly others may play an important role in asbestos carcinogenesis . second , asbestos can transfect dna into cells . furthermore , dna can adhere to asbestos fibers , and these fibers are capable of direct transmigration into cells . the questions of the mechanisms of cigarette smoke cocarcinogenicity and latency remain . lastly , if the bronchial epithelium is highly metaplastic throughout from cigarette smoking , what triggers a single ( or several ) nidus of cells to transform into carcinoma ? malignant mesothelioma poses the most challenging questions because of association with brief asbestos exposure by history . mesothelial cells are susceptible to minute environmental manipulations , and changes occur after exposure to all fiber types . yet epidemiologic studies point toward long amphiboles as having greater mesothelioma risk . to test this hypothesis , experimental data must be generated differentiating tumorigenesis risk from short , chrysotile fibers that can migrate to the parietal pleura from the associations of long amphiboles persisting in lung tissue . despite the future decreasing numbers of clinical cases of asbestos-related disease , solving the important mechanistic questions remaining will contribute significantly to our understanding of fibrosis and cancer . 
reversed helper/suppressor t-lymphocyte ratio in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from patients with breast cancer and pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . pneumocystis pneumonia ( pcp ) usually occurs in patients with hematologic malignancies and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . patients with solid tumors represent a very small fraction of the reported cases of pcp . over an 18-month period , pcp was diagnosed in three patients who had received radiation and chemotherapy for breast cancer . in all three patients , there was no serologic or clinical evidence of aids . direct staining of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid ( bal ) revealed pneumocystis carinii , and cellular analysis of bal revealed an increased percentage of lymphocytes with reversed helper/inducer : suppressor/cytotoxic t-cell ( cd4 : cd8 ) ratio . because decreased cd4 : cd8 ratio in bal is commonly accepted as findings consistent with hypersensitivity pneumonitis and aids , we conclude that similar findings in patients without aids are not specific for hypersensitivity pneumonitis , and p. carinii should be ruled out in the appropriate clinical setting . 
capillary hemangiomas and treatment with the flash lamp-pumped pulsed dye laser strawberry , or capillary , hemangiomas are common vascular neoplasms , with an incidence of approximately 2.6 % in neonates . they usually develop in the first few weeks of life , so that between 1 month and 1 year the incidence rises to between 8.7 % and 10.1 % . these lesions may grow quite large in the first year of life , and they may ulcerate or obstruct a vital organ or function . the great majority will spontaneously regress after the first year of life . parents are often alarmed at the sight of these hemangiomas and need reassurance that the great majority will regress spontaneously . treatments such as cryosurgery , irradiation , radium instillation , corticosteroid therapy , or surgical excision are often ineffective or cause significant morbidity . we describe 10 children with capillary hemangiomas treated with the flash lamp-pumped pulsed dye laser . the patients ranged in age from 7 weeks to 5.5 years at the beginning of laser therapy . the patients underwent 3.1 + / - 1 ( mean + / - sd ) laser treatments , with a mean regression of the lesions of 69.9 % + / - 4.5 % . all patients demonstrated some diminution in the size and color of their hemangiomas after the treatments , and there were no ill effects , such as ulceration , hemorrhage , infection , or scarring . there was no evidence of hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation . pulsed dye laser therapy should be considered as an option in the treatment of capillary hemangiomas , preferably prior to their full evolution . it is also a useful therapeutic approach in those hemangiomas that are slow to regress in older children . 
effectiveness of radiotherapy with radical neck dissection in cancers of the head and neck . a retrospective analysis of 457 radical neck dissections performed over a 30-year period for cancers of the oral cavity , pharynx , and larynx was carried out . two hundred thirteen patients underwent radiotherapy to the primary cancer site and/or to the neck . of these , 164 underwent perioperative adjuvant radiotherapy and 24 underwent definitive radiation for cure and were followed up by salvage surgery . thus , 188 patients received radiotherapy for nonrecurrent disease . twenty-five additional patients underwent radiation for surgical failure following radical neck dissection . the goal of the study was to determine whether radiotherapy altered the course or end result of the disease . the t and n stage at onset of disease was similar for the radiotherapy and nonradiotherapy groups . preoperative radiotherapy was effective in down staging the disease at the primary site and , to a lesser extent , in the lymph nodes , but had limited impact on survival . failure to control the disease in the neck occurred in 60 ( 32 % ) of the 188 patients who received radiotherapy for primary disease ; recurrence rates were lower in the combined therapy group than in the surgical group of patients with n2 and n3 stages of disease . the 3-year disease-free survival was 45 % ; this was no better than the 63 % survival rate in patients who did not receive radiotherapy , although survival was better in the combined therapy group for patients with n3 stage of disease . the worst results were in those patients who were irradiated for surgical failure ( 14 % survival ) ; the 24 patients who required salvage radical neck dissection following failure of definitive radiotherapy for cure had a 42 % survival . 
the epithelial changes associated with squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva : a review of the clinical , histological and viral findings in 78 women . seventy-eight excised specimens of squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva were reviewed retrospectively for the presence of lichen sclerosus or vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia ( vin ) at sites proximal to the tumour or more distant . lichen sclerosus was evident in 61 % and vin alone in 31 % . vin iii ( differentiated ) was associated with over 50 % of the specimens with lichen sclerosus . hpv 16 was found in six of the 11 vin lesions , investigated but in none of the six with lichen sclerosus . 
decalcification of a choroidal osteoma . a 56-year-old man presented with a clearly defined orange tumour in the posterior pole of his left eye . a choroidal osteoma was suspected , and ultrasonography confirmed the diagnosis . fluorescein angiography demonstrated subretinal neovascularisation on the nasal edge of the tumour , which was treated with krypton laser photocoagulation twice . recurrent subretinal neovascularisation occurred one year later and was not amenable to treatment . three years after the patient first presented , thinning of the tumour was noted on follow-up examination . during the next 15 months the tumour completely disappeared , leaving an area of retinal pigment epithelial and choroidal atrophy . total decalcification of the choroidal osteoma was demonstrated by ultrasonography . 
translocation ( 9 ; 22 ) is associated with extremely poor prognosis in intensively treated children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia . the prognostic implications of t ( 9 ; 22 ) ( q34 ; q11 ) were assessed at a median follow-up of 3.5 years in 434 children receiving intensive treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) . four-year event-free and overall survivals were 81 % and 88 % , respectively , in 419 children lacking t ( 9 ; 22 ) , but were 0 % and 20 % , respectively , in 15 children with t ( 9 ; 22 ) ( p less than .001 ) . poor outcome for children with t ( 9 ; 22 ) - positive all was particularly notable because we have reported improved survival in other historically poor prognosis all cytogenetic categories when treated with similarly intensive therapy . we recommend that very intensive treatment approaches , including bone marrow transplantation in first remission , be considered for all children with t ( 9 ; 22 ) - positive all . 
clinical characteristics and treatment outcome of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia with the t ( 4 ; 11 ) ( q21 ; q23 ) : a collaborative study of 40 cases . the t ( 4 ; 11 ) ( q21 ; q23 ) chromosomal abnormality was identified in 40 ( 2 % ) of 1,986 children with newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) . this translocation was associated with female sex ( 63 % ) , age less than 1 year ( 60 % ) , hyperleukocytosis ( median leukocyte count , 156.5 x 10 ( 9 ) / l ) , cd10 - / cd19 + b-precursor cell immunophenotype , and myeloid-associated antigen ( cd15 ) expression ( 63 % ) . nearly all cases had at least some cd24 - blast cells . the cd10 - / cd15 % / cd19 + / cd24 / + phenotype was found in 20 of the 32 t ( 4 ; 11 ) cases tested . none of the 40 cases had the cytogenetic finding of hyperdiploidy greater than 50 , which is a favorable prognostic feature . for clinical comparison , the t ( 4 ; 11 ) cases were divided into three groups according to age at diagnosis : less than 1 year ( n = 24 ) , 1 to 9 years ( n = 8 ) , and greater than or equal to 10 years ( n = 8 ) . compared with older patients , infants were more likely to have initial central nervous system leukemia ( p = .05 ) and less likely to have pre-b-cell all ( p = .05 ) . complete continuous remission has been maintained in only 7 of 24 infants and 2 of 8 patients aged greater than or equal to 10 years , in contrast to 7 of 8 children in the intermediate age group ( p = .048 ) . these findings suggest that the t ( 4 ; 11 ) is an adverse prognostic feature in these two age groups . 
human immunodeficiency virus infection of megakaryocytic cells . the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) is capable of infecting certain cells of hematopoietic lineage , particularly monocyte-macrophages and t lymphocytes . recently , the possibility that cells of megakaryocytic lineage are susceptible to hiv infection has been raised . we have characterized infection of the permanent megakaryocytic cell line cmk by hiv in vitro . cmk cells were easily infected by hiv type 2 ( hiv-2 ) , producing significant amounts of virus in culture . infection appeared to be mediated by the cd4 surface antigen on cmk cells . three different strains of hiv-1 were able to minimally infect cmk cells , suggesting there may be isolates of hiv tropic for megakaryocytes . infection of cmk cells led to downregulation of the cd4 surface antigen but no discernable change in expression of megakaryocyte-associated proteins glycoprotein ib and glycoprotein iib/iiia . these observations support the likelihood that megakaryocytes are susceptible to hiv infection , and cell lines of megakaryocytic origin may provide a useful model to study effects of the retrovirus on megakaryocyte function . 
characterization of an interleukin-6-mediated autocrine growth loop in the human multiple myeloma cell line , u266 . it has been reported recently that freshly isolated human myeloma cell cultures proliferate in response to added interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) . endogenous levels of il-6 found in the same cultures suggested that an autocrine growth loop may contribute to cell growth . however , the lack of homogenous cell populations in primary myeloma cultures has made it difficult to distinguish between paracrine and autocrine growth mechanisms . to precisely address the autocrine growth issue we have evaluated the growth of the human myeloma cell line , u266 . we have found that a neutralizing anti-il-6 monoclonal antibody can inhibit u266 proliferation . furthermore , the addition of il-6 antisense oligonucleotides also inhibits u266 proliferation . these effects are reversed by adding il-6 , suggesting the presence of an autocrine loop . using bioassays with two different il-6-dependent cell lines , we were able to detect il-6 in concentrated u266 supernatants . il-6 mrna was detected by polymerase chain reaction amplification of cdna . cell cycle parameter analysis shows that il-6 acts to release a block in g1 . taken together these results present conclusive evidence for il-6-mediated autocrine growth in the u266 human myeloma cell line . 
t-cell translocation gene 1 ( ttg-1 ) encodes a nuclear protein normally expressed in neural lineage cells . we previously identified and cloned t-cell translocation gene 1 ( ttg-1 ) , a putative zinc finger protein , as a result of its deregulated expression in a t-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line ( rpmi 8402 ) with a t ( 11 ; 14 ) ( p15 ; q11 ) . we have now characterized its genomic organization and identified the major transcriptional start site to lie within an initiator-like motif . ttg-1 is normally expressed in mouse brain and not in thymus . the mouse neuroblastoma cell line , n2a , also expresses ttg-1 . antibodies raised against a trpe-ttg-1 fusion protein precipitate an 18-kd nuclear protein from metabolically labeled 8402 cells . immunofluorescence of n2a cells shows a nuclear pattern . the two potential zinc finger domains in ttg-1 are highly homologous to similar regions in lin-11 , mec-3 , and lsl-1 . this data suggests that ttg-1 may be involved in gene regulation . 
fine-needle aspiration evaluation of lymphoproliferative lesions in human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients . a multiparameter approach . forty-six fine-needle aspirates of lymphoproliferative lesions from 31 human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - positive patients were reviewed using cytomorphologic , immunocytochemical , flow cytometric ( fcm ) , cytogenetic , and molecular studies . there were 29 lymphomas ( 15 small non-cleaved cell [ sncl ] , 11 large cell [ lcl ] , one small lymphocytic , and two hodgkin 's ) , 14 reactive hyperplasias , and three " atypical lymphoid proliferations . " the reactive hyperplasias were characteristically polymorphic and polyclonal lymphoid populations ; six of seven were diploid on fcm , the seventh was hypodiploid . higher proliferative indices ( mean , 11.6 % ) and higher rna indices ( mean , 1.2 ) characterized this subgroup compared with published reactive lymphoid hyperplasias from patients without hiv positivity . aspirates of sncl showed monotonous populations of intermediate-sized cells except in one patient where a giant cell syncytial variant occurred . nine of 13 sncl aspirates showed light chain restriction . jh rearrangement revealed b-cell lineage in one aspirate in which immunocytochemical study was negative for kappa , lambda , b1 , and leu-4 . nine of 12 sncl were diploid ; the mean proliferative index was 25.6 % and the mean rna index 2.3 . chromosomal translocations involving the c-myc locus were demonstrated in five of seven sncl aspirates karyotyped . five of eight lcl showed light chain restriction the remaining three showed null cell phenotype . large cell lymphomas were diploid on tetraploid with the mean proliferative index of 22.0 % and mean rna index of 2.2 . one of two lcl aspirates karyotyped demonstrated c-myc translocation . despite the multiparameter approach , a definitive diagnosis could not be reached in three aspirates . 
juvenile ( embryonal and alveolar ) rhabdomyosarcoma of the head and neck in adults . a clinical , pathologic , and immunohistochemical study of 12 cases . sites in the head and neck region ( orbit , nasopharynx , nasal cavity , etc. ) are among the most frequent locations for juvenile ( embryonal and alveolar ) rhabdomyosarcomas in patients younger than 15 years ; however , comparable neoplasms in adults are very uncommon . a clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of 12 juvenile rhabdomyosarcomas in patients between the ages of 18 and 36 years is presented . there was a female : male ratio of 2:1 . the orbit with or without contiguous paranasal sinus involvement , nasal cavity , sphenoid sinus , middle ear , and soft tissues of the neck and preauricular region were the primary sites . seven tumors involved a parameningeal site and eight cases were alveolar rhabdomyosarcomas which together contributed to the adverse outcome . only two patients were long-term , disease-free survivors . six patients have died of tumor and two others are alive with persistent disease . immunohistochemical study in 11 cases demonstrated reactivity for vimentin and muscle-specific actin ( hhf-35 ) and desmin in ten cases . juvenile rhabdomyosarcoma rarely presents in the head and neck of adults but should be considered in the differential diagnosis of a small cell neoplasm in patients during the third and fourth decades of life . 
thymic carcinoma . a clinicopathologic study of 60 cases . the clinicopathologic features of 60 patients with thymic carcinoma were studied . patients ranged in age from 10 to 76 years ( mean , 46 ) , of whom 24 were females and 36 were males . overall survival at 1 , 3 , and 5 years was 56.6 % , 40 % , and 33.3 % , respectively . the following morphologic features were correlated with survival : type of tumor margins ; presence or absence of a lobular growth pattern ; nuclear atypia ; necrosis ; mitotic activity ; and histologic tumor type and grade . eighty eight percent of patients with poorly circumscribed/infiltrating neoplasms died of their tumors as compared with 16.6 % of patients with well-circumscribed neoplasms ( p less than 0.0000 ) . of patients whose tumors had mitotic counts exceeding 10/10 high-power fields ( hpf ) , 84.3 % died , as compared with 21.4 % of patients with lower mitotic counts ( p less than 0.0000 ) . of patients whose tumors showed lack of lobular growth pattern , 91.6 % died , as compared with 29 % of those whose tumors had a lobular growth pattern ( p less than 0.0000 ) . finally , 84.6 % of patients whose tumors displayed a high-grade histology ( lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma , small cell/neuroendocrine carcinoma , clear cell carcinoma , sarcomatid carcinoma , and anaplastic/undifferentiated carcinoma ) died of tumor , as compared with 0 % of patients whose tumors were of low-grade histology ( well-differentiated squamous carcinoma , mucoepidermoid carcinoma , and basaloid carcinoma ) ( p less than 0.0000 ) . evaluation of the various treatment modalities used to treat these patients did not yield any statistically significant correlations with survival . two clinically distinct groups of patients were identified : one after a relatively favorable clinical course with long survival , and one after a rapidly fatal outcome . the morphologic features of the tumors in these patients correlated well with their clinical behavior ; histologic type ( and the grade to which it was assigned ) constituted the most reliable and important predictor of prognosis . 
a comparative analysis of three different techniques for the detection of breast cancer cells in bone marrow . three different methods , morphologic , immunocytochemic , and fluorescence activated cell sorter ( fc ) analysis , were compared with respect to their efficiency in detecting breast cancer cells in bone marrow . in the first series of experiments , the three techniques were compared using bone marrow cells artificially mixed with a known amount of breast cancer cells , whereas in a second series bone marrow from breast cancer patients with bone metastases were used . the following results were obtained : when mixtures of the first series were analyzed , fc analysis detected from 1 % to 10 % of breast cancer cells in bone marrow ( 0.2 % was a border line value ) , the morphologic method detected from 0.05 % to 10 % , and the immunocytochemic method , which was clearly superior , detected breast cancer cells in all mixtures ( from 0.00025 % to 10 % ) . it was noted that , with both the morphologic and immunocytochemic methods , the percentage of breast cancer cells detected was 2 to 360 times higher than the percentage of added cells , and enrichment was inversely proportional to the percentage of added cells . this result could be a result of different separation of cells during centrifugation due to the different density of breast cancer cells . the superiority of the immunocytochemic method was confirmed in the second series of experiments . 
microinvasive carcinoma of the uterine cervix ( international federation of gynecology and obstetrics stage ia ) . in 1985 the international federation of gynecology and obstetrics ( figo ) subdivided stage ia cervical cancer and specified metric criteria to demarcate stage ia from stage ib . early stromal invasion ( stage ia1 ) denotes the first invasive protrusions of a carcinoma in situ into the stroma . microcarcinomas ( stage ia2 ) are small cancers a number of orders of magnitude larger than stage ia1 lesions and with a maximum depth of invasion of 5 mm and a maximum horizontal spread of 7 mm ; larger lesions are classified as stage ib . this study reviews 486 patients previously classified as having stage ia disease . this yielded 344 stage ia1 and 101 stage ia2 lesions ; 41 cancers were reclassified as stage ib . three hundred nine , 89 , and 38 patients were followed for greater than or equal to 5 years . one ( 0.3 % ) patient with stage ia1 disease re-presented with stage iib disease 12 years after conization . five ( 5.6 % ) patients with stage ia2 lesions developed invasive recurrences ; three died . none of the 38 patients reclassified as having a stage ib lesion , including 16 who were treated conservatively , developed a recurrence . the figo classification is not a guideline for treatment . stage ia1 lesions can be treated conservatively , but treatment in stage ia2 must be individualized . risk factors such as vascular space involvement and confluency are of high sensitivity but low specificity . 
leiomyosarcoma of bone . a clinicopathologic , immunohistochemical , and ultrastructural study of five cases . the authors identified five leiomyosarcomas ( lms ) in a review of 13 nonmatrix-producing spindle cell sarcomas of bone . only two were initially recognized as lms ; the others had been diagnosed as malignant fibrous histiocytoma ( two ) and fibrosarcoma ( one ) . the patients , four of whom were women , ranged in age from 32 to 70 years . sites included proximal humerus ( two ) , distal femur ( two ) , and rib ( one ) . all tumors presented with clinical and radiographic features consistent with a diagnosis of primary bone neoplasms , although one probably represented a solitary metastasis from a primary uterine lms . radiographs showed lytic bone destruction with a moth-eaten appearance , and three cases had soft tissue extension . histologically , all tumors showed broad , interlacing fascicles of spindle cells with pleomorphic nuclei , frequent mitoses , and necrosis . two cases had a focal storiform pattern and bizarre multinucleated cells , and two other cases had focally prominent osteoclast-like giant cells . extensive immunoreactivity for muscle actin was seen in all cases and for desmin in three . in each case , electron microscopy showed definite smooth muscle differentiation including cytoplasmic filaments with densities . at this writing , two patients are free of disease ( including the patient with a presumed metastasis ) , one is alive with locally recurrent disease , and two are dead of disease . experience suggests that lms of bone is a distinct clinicopathologic entity that may be more common than previously recognized . application of immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy to nonmatrix-producing bone sarcomas should facilitate diagnosis of additional cases . 
clinical characteristics and treatment outcome of children with acute lymphocytic leukemia and down 's syndrome . a pediatric oncology group study . of 2947 children with acute lymphocytic leukemia ( all ) , treated during three consecutive studies of the pediatric oncology group ( 1974-1986 ) , 52 ( 1.8 % ) had down 's syndrome ( ds ) . comparison of clinical and laboratory characteristics showed no significant differences in leukocyte count , racial distribution , sex ratio , platelet count , incidence of mediastinal mass , lymphadenopathy or hepatosplenomegaly , or percentage of blood or bone marrow blasts for children with all with or without down 's syndrome ( ds-all or nds-all , respectively ) . however , children with ds-all were slightly older at the time of presentation and had higher hemoglobin values . the relative frequency of each major immunophenotype ( early pre-b , pre-b , t , or b ) was also comparable for patients with or without ds . for this report , treatment regimens were categorized as either conventional ( no consolidation therapy ) or intensive . cox regression analysis revealed that the presence of ds , a higher leukocyte count , black race , or age older than 10 years was independently associated with a poorer event-free survival ( efs ) for children treated with conventional chemotherapy . however , for the cohort of children who received intensive chemotherapy , ds was no longer an independent risk factor . in fact , event-free survival ( efs ) was markedly improved to a level comparable with that observed in the children diagnosed as having nds-all . on the other hand , serious toxicity , requiring interruption of treatment , was significantly more frequent in the intensively treated children with ds compared with similarly treated patients with nds-all , although deaths resulting from toxicity occurred infrequently . 
idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome terminating as disseminated t-cell lymphoma . the authors describe a case of idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome ( hes ) terminated as a t-cell lymphoma in a 3-year-old girl . the clinical course was chronic and characterized by chronic eczema , persistent peripheral blood eosinophilia , organomegaly , interstitial lung change , and pericarditis . postmortem examination demonstrated a disseminated t-cell lymphoma involving the inguinal lymph node , liver , lung , and kidney . the findings of the current case suggest a possibility that certain abnormalities in this case of idiopathic hes per se may have triggered the development of malignant lymphoma , and it may represent a transition of idiopathic hes into a t-cell lymphoma . other possible sequences are discussed . the development of t-cell malignancy in idiopathic hes in a girl is quite an unusual presentation . 
hypersensitivity reactions to epipodophyllotoxins in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia . the incidence , clinical characteristics , and outcome of hypersensitivity reactions to teniposide ( vm-26 ) , etoposide ( vp-16 ) , or both were determined in 108 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) treated with a contemporary regimen of intensive multiagent chemotherapy . fifty ( 46 % ) of the 108 patients had one or more hypersensitivity reactions . the risk of any child having an initial reaction over the cumulative dose range studied was 52 % ( 95 % confidence limits , 41 % and 63 % ) for vm-26 , compared with 34 % ( 95 % confidence limits , 24 % and 44 % ) for vp-16 . the risk of having an initial reaction to vm-26 or vp-16 was clearly related to the cumulative dose . this risk peaked at 1500 to 2000 mg/m2 for vm-26 and at 2000-3000 mg/m2 for vp-16 . all reactions were type 1 reactions according to the gell and coombs classification , characterized by urticaria , angioedema , flushing , rashes , or hypotension , and 86 % of reactions were of grade 1 or 2 severity according to standard criteria . there was no evidence of increasing clinical severity on repeated rechallenge with premedication , and no deaths occurred . the findings suggested that hypersensitivity reactions to epipodophyllotoxins in children with all are more common than previously reported , but only rarely constitute dose-limiting toxicity . 
malignant glandular triton tumor . a case of left brachial plexus-related malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor showing neoplastic , glandular , and rhabdomyoblastic elements in a 39-year-old chinese man is reported . the authors suggested that this tumor be termed a malignant glandular triton tumor in view of the presence of the adenocarcinomatous component . the patient had extensive local recurrence comprising mainly the schwann spindle cells within a year after complete piecemeal removal and died 15 months later after the initial presentation . the natural behavior of this tumor , as in other reported cases of malignant triton tumor , is extremely aggressive , unlike malignant schwannoma or glandular malignant schwannoma . the histogenesis of this tumor is likely to be from primitive neural crest cells , schwann 's cell precursors , or metaplastic malignant schwann 's cells . 
the long-term effects of radiation therapy on patients with ovarian dysgerminoma . a retrospective chart review and questionnaire study was undertaken to look at the long-term effects of radiation therapy in ovarian dysgerminoma patients . forty-three patients and 55 controls responded to a questionnaire that detailed bowel , bladder , thyroid , menstrual , reproductive , sexual , and growth function . statistically significant differences in the number of bowel movements were noticed when comparing patients with controls . the authors noticed no significant differences between cases and controls in bladder function . no thyroid disorders were attributable to mediastinal radiation therapy . most patients with intact uteri bleed monthly on hormonal replacement . three patients with a remaining ovary and uterus resumed menstrual function after substantial doses of abdominopelvic radiation therapy . no patients have conceived . the authors noticed a slight increase in dyspareunia in the treated group , but most patients were satisfied with their sexual function . one premenarchal patient exhibited a growth disorder . 
expectant management of localized prostatic cancer . seventy-five patients with clinical stage b histologically proven prostatic cancer accumulated over a 40-year period and receiving no therapy for at least 1 year after histologic diagnosis were retrospectively reviewed . twenty-nine patients had stage b1 lesions , 37 had b2 , and nine had b3 lesions ; median follow-up for these patients was 124 , 120 , and 96 months , respectively . five ultimately received pelvic lymph node dissection with iodine-125 implantation , 23 had transurethral resection of the prostate , and 18 had endocrine therapy . of those tumors which progressed , 18 of 19 ( 95 % ) b1 , 26 of 29 ( 90 % ) b2 , and four of four ( 100 % ) b3 lesions demonstrated local progression first . six of 29 ( 21 % ) b1 , 17 of 37 ( 46 % ) b2 , and two of nine ( 22 % ) b3 tumors developed recognized distant metastasis . actuarial survival at 15 years was 67 % , 39 % , and 63 % for patients with b1 , b2 , and b3 lesions , respectively . these data indicate the varied and potentially protracted course of patients with clinical stage b prostatic cancer . 
psychosocial adjustment in women with breast cancer . there is a plethora of studies investigating psychosocial adjustment in women with breast cancer , its correlates , clinical course , and prognosis . these studies have been conducted with varying degrees of methodologic rigor . an assessment has been made of the quality of this existing evidence to identify from the best evidence the factors which predict the adjustment status of women with breast cancer . studies have been reviewed , using methodologic standards for the critical appraisal of studies on prognosis , developed by sackett and colleagues in the department of clinical epidemiology and biostatistics at mcmaster university ( hamilton , ontario , canada ) . few of the studies investigating psychosocial adjustment of women with breast cancer meet all of the criteria for reviewing studies of clinical course and prognosis . this review focuses the direction and methodologic rigor required in future investigations . in particular , studies are needed that employ prospective designs and that deliberately measure or control for the extraneous prognostic variables that may affect adjustment . future investigations need to incorporate adequate precision in measurement so that measures of the psychosocial variables are objective , reliable , and valid . 
prognosis of pregnancy-associated breast cancer . the survival of patients with pregnancy-associated ( pa ) breast cancer is difficult to predict for two reasons : the combination is very rare , and the natural history of breast cancer that is not associated with pregnancy is intricate and varies among individuals . valid data collection and analysis is problematic given that studies gather patients over many years . the charts of 56 women with stages i , ii , and iii breast cancer , who were pregnant or within 1 year postpartum at the time of breast cancer diagnosis between 1960 and 1980 , were analyzed . patients with pa breast cancer were compared to nonpregnant women of comparable ages , who were treated at the same hospital , by the same physicians , and during the same period . four patients were lost before 5-year follow-up , and one patient before 10-year follow-up . these five patients had distant metastases at the time they were lost to follow-up , and are considered to have died within that time . across stages , patients with pa breast cancer have survival not significantly different from those patients with non-pregnancy-associated ( non-pa ) breast cancer . 
patient-controlled analgesic administration . a comparison of steady-state morphine infusions with bolus doses . the authors have shown previously that bone marrow transplant ( bmt ) patients who self-administered bolus doses of morphine gained equal oral mucositis pain relief while using less drug compared with similar patients receiving morphine by staff-controlled continuous infusion . in a follow-up study they compared the efficacy and side effects of morphine in two groups of marrow transplant patients who controlled their own analgesic administration either by conventional bolus-dose , patient-controlled analgesia ( pca ) or by adjusting the rate of continuous morphine infusion to increase or decrease their plasma morphine concentration . patients controlling their morphine infusion rates ( pharmacokinetically based patient-controlled analgesia [ pkpca ] group ) obtained more relief from oral mucositis pain than did patients using conventional pca . patients in the pkpca group used more morphine than pca patients and achieved superior pain relief without significant increases in side effects ( e.g. , nausea , mood changes , sedation ) . the authors conclude that pkpca improves the management of prolonged , severe pain in marrow transplant patients and that this approach to patient-controlled analgesia may be useful in other types of persistent pain . 
combination hormonal therapy with tamoxifen plus fluoxymesterone versus tamoxifen alone in postmenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer . an updated analysis . a randomized trial was performed to determine if therapy with tamoxifen ( tam ) plus fluoxymesterone ( flu ) was more efficacious than tam alone for postmenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer . patients failing tam could subsequently receive flu . the dose of both drugs was 10 mg orally twice daily . objective responses were seen in 50 of 119 ( 42 % ) tam patients and 64 of 119 ( 54 % ) tam plus flu patients ( two-sided p = 0.07 ) . time to disease progression was better for tam plus flu ( medians : 11.6 versus 6.5 months ; cox model , p = 0.03 ) . duration of response and survival were similar in the two treatment arms . among 97 patients with estrogen receptor ( er ) of 10 or greater and 65 years of age or older , there were highly significant advantages for treatment with tam plus flu in both response rate and time to progression . of particular note is that in this patient group tam plus flu showed a survival advantage ( cox model , p = 0.05 ) . although these data require confirmation in a prospective randomized trial , they suggest that there is a substantive therapeutic advantage for tam plus flu over tam alone in elderly women with er of 10 fmol or greater . 
cisplatin , continuous-infusion 5-fluorouracil , and intermediate-dose methotrexate in the treatment of unresectable non-small cell carcinoma of the lung . forty-one patients with unresectable non-small cell carcinoma of the lung ( nsccl ) were treated with cisplatin 20 mg/m2/d for 5 days as a daily bolus injection , 5-fluorouracil 800 mg/m2/d by continuous infusion for 5 days , and intermediate-dose methotrexate 200 mg/m2 on days 15 and 22 of a 28-day cycle ( pfm ) . one complete and 23 partial responses were observed , yielding an overall response rate of 60 % . there was no significant difference in response rates based on histologic subtype or extent of disease ( locally unresectable versus metastatic ) . median duration of response was 6 months , and the median survival of all patients was 10 months . two patients with unresectable disease at presentation became resectable after chemotherapy and remain disease-free at 46 + and 53 + months . toxicity was modest , with oral mucositis the major adverse effect . clinically important neutropenia was uncommon . pfm is an active regimen in nsccl and deserves further study in the " neoadjuvant " setting . 
multimodality cisplatin treatment in nonresectable alpha-fetoprotein-positive hepatoma . twenty-eight patients with alpha-fetoprotein-positive ( afp + ) nonresectable hepatoma have been enrolled in a new multimodality phase i , ii program . induction therapy consisted of 50 mg/m2 intravenous cisplatin followed by 2100 cgy irradiation to the tumor volume in seven fractions over 10 days . hepatic arterial infusion of 50 mg/m2 cisplatin ( ia-cddp ) was then administered at monthly intervals . twenty-one patients have completed induction and at least two cycles of ia-cddp . twelve-month cumulative survival was 52 % for all 28 patients and 69 % for the 21 patients completing induction and ia-cddp . median survival has not yet been reached . response rate ( complete and partial ) was 36 % overall and 48 % among the 21 patients who completed treatment . the improved survival of the present series of patients as well as the minimal hematologic toxicity suggests possible further integration of new modalities for therapy . 
ultrasound-guided hepatic cryosurgery in the treatment of metastatic colon carcinoma . preliminary results . cryosurgery , the in situ freezing of cancer , has been proposed in the past as a possible treatment for unresectable hepatic tumors . its advantage lies in the fact that it is a very focal treatment sacrificing less normal tissue than surgical resection , allowing treatment of multiple lobes . because cryosurgery does not affect large vessels , tumors in difficult locations , such as adjacent to the inferior vena cava ( ivc ) , can be treated . with the use of intraoperative ultrasound to place the cryoprobes and monitor the freezing process , 18 patients with unresectable metastatic colon carcinoma confined to the liver were treated . of the 18 patients treated , 4 ( 22 % ) are in complete remission as determined by computed tomography ( ct ) scans and carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) levels , with a mean follow-up of 28.8 months . four patients ( 22 % ) were not adequately treated at the time of cryosurgery . the number of lesions frozen in each patient ranged from 1 to 12 , with a mean of 6 lesions . fourteen patients had bilobar disease ; three patients had previous right lobectomies with recurrences in their remaining left lobes prior to cryosurgery , and one patient had unilobar disease . mean survival of the 14 cases with recurrence was 21.4 months , with 2 of the 14 still alive . ultrasound-guided hepatic cryosurgery appears to be an effective treatment for metastatic colon carcinoma to the liver that is unresectable ( including patients with bilobar and multiple lesions ) . these preliminary results indicate that the procedure warrants further study . 
sphincter preservation in rectal cancer by local excision and postoperative radiation therapy . the authors report the preliminary results of 14 patients with localized , mobile , resectable rectal cancer treated with local excision and postoperative radiation therapy ( rt ) . all had negative surgical resection margins and two received 5-fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) . the median follow-up was 29 months ( 4-43 months ) . the 3-year actuarial survival was 88 % . the incidence of local failure was 7 % ( only site of failure ) and 21 % ( component of failure ) . the incidence of local failure increased with t stage ( t1 , 0/3 [ 0 % ] ; t2 , 1/7 [ 14 % ] ; and t3 , 2/4 [ 50 % ] ) and tumor size ( greater than 3 cm , 33 % , versus less than or equal to 3 cm , 0 % ) . three patients developed local failure at 6 , 15 , and 21 months . three underwent a salvage abdominoperineal resection and were locally controlled at 2 and 28 months following salvage surgery . one patient underwent an abdominoperineal resection for a clinically presumed local failure ; however , no tumor was found in the specimen . therefore , the 13 patients who either were initially locally controlled or underwent salvage or nonsalvage surgery had no evidence of disease in the pelvis at the time of last follow-up . local excision and postoperative rt may be an alternative to standard surgery in selected cases . however , additional follow-up and more experience are needed in order to determine if this approach will ultimately have local control and survival rates similar to those of a low anterior resection or an abdominoperineal resection . 
combined chemotherapy and radiation therapy in advanced inoperable squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck . the final report of a randomized trial . between 1983 and 1986 , the national institute for cancer research in genoa and affiliated institutions conducted a randomized study to compare two different ways of combining chemotherapy ( ct ) and radiation therapy ( rt ) . one hundred sixteen patients were randomized to receive neoadjuvant ct followed by definitive rt ( treatment arm a ) or alternating ct and rt . in treatment arm a , rt consisted of 70 gy to the involved areas and 50 gy to the uninvolved neck at 2 gy/fraction , five fractions per week . in treatment arm b , rt consisted of 60 gy to involved areas and 50 gy to the uninvolved neck in three courses of 20 gy each , 2 gy/fraction , ten fractions/2 weeks alternated with four courses of ct . ct consisted of vinblastine 6 mg/m2 intravenously followed 6 hours later by bleomycin 30 iu intramuscularly , day 1 ; methotrexate 200 mg intravenously , day 2 ; leucovorin rescue , day 3 . ct was repeated every 2 weeks up to four courses . the same ct was used in both treatment arms of the study . fifty-five patients were entered in treatment arm a and 61 in treatment arm b. complete responses were 7/48 and 19/57 in treatment arms a and b , respectively ( p less than 0.03 ) . four-year progression-free survival was 4 % in treatment arm a and 12 % in treatment arm b ( p less than 0.02 ) , and four-year survival was 10 % in a and 22 % in b ( p less than 0.02 ) . mucosal tolerance was significantly worse in treatment arm b ( p less than 0.00004 ) . the subgroup analysis shows the major improvement of alternating ct and rt in patients with the worst prognostic characteristics . 
treatment of advanced neuroblastoma with i-131 meta-iodobenzylguanidine . from february 1986 to december 1988 , 31 children with advanced pretreated neuroblastoma were treated with 131-i meta-iodobenzylguanidine ( 131-mibg ) . thirteen children had been resistant to first-line therapy , three had suffered a local relapse , and fourteen had suffered a disseminated relapse without over bone marrow infiltration . one child was treated initially because of resistance to first-line therapy , and subsequently for a local relapse . a total of 72 courses of 131-mibg was administered , with doses ranging from 2.8 to 6.0 gbq ( median , 3.7 gbq ) . one child received five courses , two four courses , 13 three courses , four two courses , and 12 one course of 131-mibg . the most common toxic effect was thrombocytopenia , with a platelet level of less than 50,000 / cmm occurring after 19 of 60 evaluable courses . a leukocyte count less than 1000/cmm was seen only once . there were six major responses ( two complete ) lasting 4 to 9 months , and two minor responses lasting longer than 38 and 44 months . responses were seen more commonly in children whose only lesion was a residual primary tumor and in children who had not been pretreated who experienced disseminated relapse . further studies of the role of 131-i meta-iodobenzylguanidine in treatment of neuroblastoma are needed . 
plasma cell granuloma of the nasal cavity treated by radiation therapy . plasma cell granuloma is a rare , benign tumor most commonly found in the lungs in patients younger than 30 years . although presentation has been reported at a number of other anatomic sites , this report is the first of plasma cell granuloma of the nasal cavity . the tumor was initially resected , but progression was seen at 1-month follow-up . because further surgery to completely eradicate the tumor would have been extensive and disfiguring , 40-gy external beam radiation was given in 20 fractions using a three-field wedge technique . most recent clinical follow-up at 27 months showed local control . surgery remains the treatment of choice for plasma cell granuloma when the disease can be completely resected . however , irradiation can also be effective in patients with recurrent or inoperable local disease . 
surgical treatment of extramammary paget 's disease . a report of six cases and a reexamination of mohs micrographic surgery compared with conventional surgical excision . extramammary paget 's disease ( empd ) is a rare cutaneous malignancy , usually on the genitalia , that almost always extends beyond clinically apparent margins . recurrences after standard methods of surgical excision are notoriously frequent ; effective treatment with mohs micrographic surgery was first reported in 1979 . it has since been suggested this malignancy may be multifocal , and reports of recurrences after resection with micrographic surgery have appeared . the authors report six cases treated with mohs surgery , two of which recurred . they also present data on 42 additional cases obtained from a written survey of members of the american college of mohs micrographic surgery and comparison cases selected from the literature . the recurrence rate after micrographic surgery appears to be at least as low as that after conventional surgical excision with vertical frozen section or paraffin section margin control . mohs micrographic surgery allows for maximal tissue sparing of critical anatomic structures and is performed under local anesthesia as an outpatient ; because of this , it may be superior to conventional surgical excision . a scheme for management of this malignancy is presented . surgeons should be aware radical excision is not needed for most cases of extramammary paget 's disease and very long-term patient follow-up is required . 
flow cytometric dna analysis of hepatocellular carcinoma . the prognostic value of nuclear dna content was studied retrospectively using flow cytometry in 203 cases of resected hepatocellular carcinoma . the occurrence of dna aneuploidy , which was detected in 50 % of patients , correlated significantly with tumor size and the presence of vascular invasion or intrahepatic metastasis . overall , patients with dna aneuploid tumors had a significantly worse prognosis than those with dna diploid tumors ( p less than 0.001 ) and , also in subdivided groups by tumor size ( p less than 0.01 ) . among dna aneuploid patients , the survival times were significantly shorter for patients with a low dna index ( less than 1.5 ) than for those with a high dna index ( greater than or equal to 1.5 ) ( p less than 0.05 ) . in a cox multivariate analysis , nuclear dna content provided significant prognostic value ( p = 0.008 ) , as did vascular invasion ( p = 0.001 ) and intrahepatic metastasis ( p = 0.005 ) . these results indicated that nuclear dna content has an important prognostic value in hepatocellular carcinoma . 
predictors of physician nonadherence to chemotherapy regimens . physician nonadherence to cancer treatment regimens may diminish treatment efficacy and compromise clinical research . the influence of clinical , demographic , and psychosocial patient characteristics on physician adherence to breast cancer chemotherapy was investigated , as was the role of the clinician 's attitudes concerning the chemotherapy . one hundred seven women recently diagnosed with breast cancer were followed for 26 weeks of treatment . fifty-six ( 52 % ) of the patients experienced unjustified modification for at least one chemotherapeutic agent . stepwise multiple regression revealed independent contributions of increased patient age , treatment setting ( clinic versus academic or community private practice ) , and stage of disease to physician nonadherence . regimen complexity , delay in seeking treatment , and presence of psychiatric disorder did not contribute , in general , to unjustified regimen modifications . patient psychological and psychiatric factors , however , did influence prescribing behavior for vincristine . physician awareness of factors contributing to unnecessary treatment modifications may reduce the frequency of such behaviors . 
complete remission in refractory anaplastic adult wilms ' tumor treated with cisplatin and etoposide . a 61-year-old woman underwent a left radical nephrectomy for stage ii anaplastic wilm 's tumor . she received no adjuvant therapy . one year later computerized tomography ( ct ) of the abdomen revealed a mass in the left renal fossa and retroperitoneal adenopathy . a ct-guided needle biopsy was nondiagnostic . the patient had progressive disease after treatment with dactinomycin , doxorubicin , and vincristine , but achieved a complete response after treatment with cisplatin and etoposide . the therapy of wilms ' tumor in adults is discussed . 
platelet factor 4 mrna expression in cells from a patient with megakaryoblastic crisis of chronic myelogenous leukemia . a 61-year-old man with philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia developed megakaryoblastic leukemia . in the blast phase , his blast cells showed undifferentiated megakaryoblastic characteristics with no alpha-granules or demarcation membranes but with detectable platelet peroxidase ( ppo ) activity and surface glycoprotein ( gp ) iib/iiia . the patient has remained reasonably well for at least 12 months after blastic crisis , and 6-mercaptopurine alone has been effective in controlling leukocytosis and megakaryoblast proliferation . the expression of mrna for platelet-specific proteins , such as gpiib and platelet factor 4 ( pf4 ) , was studied in the patient 's blast cells by the northern blot analysis . both gpiib and pf4 mrna were detected in the blast cells . cytoplasmic maturation occurs later than the synthesis of the surface gp during megakaryocyte maturation . therefore , pf4 mrna expression should be a marker of mature megakaryoblasts . the pf4 mrna expression in megakaryoblastic leukemia may indicate that a patient will have long survival and a good response to chemotherapy . 
differentiation in embryonal neuroepithelial tumors of the central nervous system . ninety-six embryonal neuroectodermal tumors were studied histologically and immunohistologically with a panel of antibodies including glial , neuronal , epithelial , mesodermal , and myelin markers . in 71 tumors there was glial and neuronal differentiation and expression both of an s ( photoreceptor ) antigen and vimentin . in five tumors there was only glial differentiation and in 20 tumors only neuronal differentiation . no reactivity for myelin and epithelial markers was found . histologic and immunohistologic findings identified various degrees of differentiation in different tumors , which was bipolar ( glial and neuronal ) in most tumors and unipolar in the remainder . the authors suggest that their findings may be the result of normal or aberrant oncogenic differentiation , agreeing with the nomenclature of the world health organization classification for these tumors with and the inclusion of a category for ependymoblastoma . 
expression of class i and ii human leukocyte antigens by thyrocytes and lymphocytic infiltration on human thyroid tumors . an immunofluorescence study . surgical thyroid sections from 30 papillary carcinomas ( pc ) , six medullary carcinomas ( mc ) , three anaplastic carcinomas ( ac ) , two follicular carcinomas ( fc ) , and 16 adenomas ( ad ) were examined with an indirect immunofluorescence technique employing different monoclonal antibodies to evaluate the expression of human leukocyte antigen ( hla ) - a , b , c ( class i ) and dr , dp , dq ( class ii ) by thyrocytes , together with the phenotype and distribution of inflammatory cells . ten pc and four fc were also investigated for the presence of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( icam-1 ) . in situ deposits of immunocomplexes and circulating thyroid autoantibodies were also evaluated . an increased expression of class i antigens was found in all pc and fc , in 33 % of mc and ac , and in 31 % of ad . an anomalous expression of class ii antigens was observed in 70 % of pc , in 50 % of fc , in 33 % of ac , in 19 % of ad , and in none of the mc . expression of dp or dq was revealed only in a portion of the dr-positive glands . a reduction of microsomal autoantigen expression was found . no icam-1-positive thyrocytes were detected . a moderate t-lymphocytic infiltrate was noticed only in pc , where it was correlated with dr and dp and/or dq coexpression . b-cells and natural killer cells were virtually absent . the authors speculate that the weak class ii antigens expression , together with the partial or complete loss in microsomal autoantigen and the absence of icam-1 by thyrocytes , may account for the limited engagement of immunocompetent cells observed in thyroid tumors . 
immunohistologic evaluation of parathyroid hormone-related protein in human lung cancer and normal tissue with newly developed monoclonal antibody . with a newly developed monoclonal anti-pthrp antibody , 4b3 , the immunohistochemical localization of the parathyroid hormone-related protein ( pthrp ) was studied on the formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded sections of normal human tissues and various subtypes of lung cancer . among normal epithelial tissues , keratinocytes in squamous epithelia , transitional and bronchial epithelia with squamous metaplasia , meningoepithelial cells , and mammary ductal cells with lactating changes showed positive immunoreactivity . also , among endocrine tissues , cells in the parathyroid gland , pancreatic islets , adrenal cortex , pituitary gland , and testis were sporadically positive for pthrp . these distribution patterns suggested that in a physiologic condition , pthrp was closely related to keratinization and local secretion and/or the metabolism of calcium in specifically differentiated tissues . in lung cancer , however , pthrp was detected in all cases of well-differentiated and moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma and in most cases of small cell carcinoma , irrespective of the patients ' serum calcium level . however , pthrp was not detected in two of five cases of poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma and in all cases of adenocarcinoma . consequently , it was found that pthrp was commonly produced by squamous cell carcinomas of the differentiated type , and that humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy could be induced when the pthrp transgressed the homeostatic mechanisms . 
expression of the macrophage colony-stimulating factor and its receptor in gynecologic malignancies . recently , hematopoietic growth factors have been implicated in protean nonhematopoietic processes . in the current study , expression of macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( m-csf ) and its receptor ( the c-fms proto-oncogene ) was investigated in 42 samples of gynecologic tissues . there were 15 samples of normal ovarian and uterine tissue or benign conditions of these organs ; 11 samples of primary ovarian cancer tissue ; seven samples of metastatic ovarian cancer tissue ; and nine samples of primary endometrial cancer tissue . steady state transcript levels were assessed by northern blot analysis . macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( m-csf ) expression was not observed in any of the specimens of benign abnormalities or of normal organs ; c-fms expression was detected in two of 15 ( 13 % ) of these specimens , albeit at very low levels . in contrast , 14 ( 78 % ) of 18 ovarian tumor specimens , and five ( 55 % ) of nine endometrial tumor specimens expressed m-csf . similarly , 16 ( 89 % ) of 18 ovarian tumor specimens and six ( 67 % ) of nine endometrial tumor specimens expressed c-fms . most positive malignant tissues ( 19 [ 86 % ] of 22 ) showed coexpression of m-csf and c-fms . of interest , m-csf and c-fms mrna were detected in tumor , but not in adjacent normal tissue . furthermore , m-csf and c-fms transcripts were produced by all metastatic tumors , including two cases in which the corresponding primary tumor from the same patient was negative . because m-csf mediates its effects by binding to its receptor , the increased levels of both these gene products in gynecologic malignancies suggest that an interaction between m-csf and c-fms may participate in the development of ovarian and endometrial carcinomas and especially in progression to the metastatic state . 
genotypic analyses of richter 's syndrome . the authors report the immunogenotype of two cases of richter 's syndrome . the immunoglobulin gene rearrangement pattern obtained on southern blot analysis was found in both cases to be the same in leukemic blood cells and in the tissue involved by the lymphoma . the beta chain and gamma chain t-cell receptor gene rearrangement pattern exhibited a germ-line configuration in the peripheral blood cells and in the lymph node in case 2 , whereas in case 1 the lymph node had a gene rearrangement in the beta chain , as well as in the gamma chain t-cell receptor , and the leukemic cells from bone marrow were found to be in a germ-line configuration for t-cell receptors ( beta and gamma chains ) . 
advances in medical imaging for cancer diagnosis and treatment . over the last several decades , significant " new eyes " have been developed that improve the diagnosis , treatment , planning , and monitoring of human cancer : computer tomography ( ct ) , magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) and spectroscopy ( mrs ) , single photon emission computed tomography ( spect ) , and positron emission tomography ( pet ) . innovative advances in both morphologic and functional imaging have led to a dramatic improvement in our ability to diagnose and monitor human cancer . frequently , anatomic detail can be demonstrated in ways that exceed views at surgery , and functional biochemical imaging is being used to show the metabolic activity and receptor status of normal and pathologic states . in vivo functional and biochemical studies differentiate normal from neoplastic or nonviable tissue , and make it possible to measure progression or regression of the disease . because physiologic changes often precede morphologic findings in many disease processes , the use of in vivo biochemical probes can demonstrate disease before anatomic abnormalities become evident . gross changes in anatomy are no longer adequate endpoints for therapy protocols . today , using physiologic imaging , we can evaluate the response to treatment within hours of administration of therapy . adjuvant metabolic tumor imaging studies provide complimentary information to morphologic evaluation of human cancers that will ultimately lead to better patient care . 
prostate cancer : transrectal ultrasound and pathology comparison . a preliminary study of outer gland ( peripheral and central zones ) and inner gland ( transition zone ) cancer . a study was conducted to compare results of transrectal ultrasound with pathologic findings on 116 patients who underwent radical prostatectomy for treatment of prostate cancer . in 96 % ( 111 of 116 ) , transrectal ultrasound guided biopsies of a hypoechoic lesion proved cancer ; seven patients had known stage a cancer ; one patient had cancer detected by palpation and not detected by ultrasound . cancers in the outer gland ( peripheral and central zones ) were compared with cancers in the inner gland ( transition zone ) by both ultrasound and pathology . forty-eight percent ( 52 of 108 ) of cancers originating in the outer gland showed extraprostatic extension ( stage c disease ) . the primary sites of tumor escape from the outer gland were the prostatic capsule ( 38 % ) , anterior fibromuscular stroma ( 5 % ) , seminal vesicle ( 18 % ) , the base of the gland at the neurovascular bundle ( 21 % ) , and the apex ( 31 % ) . twenty-two percent ( 17 of 54 ) of cancers originating in the inner gland ( transition zone ) showed extraprostatic extension ( stage c disease ) . the primary sites of tumor escape from the inner gland were the anterior fibromuscular stroma ( 6 % ) and apex ( 11 % ) . both histologic and biologic differences between outer and inner gland cancers were found when tumor size was controlled . gleason scores were significantly different for inner and outer gland cancers , with mean scores of 6.2 + / - 1.6 and 7.4 + / - 0.9 , respectively . an odds ratio of 8.6 confirmed the increased risk of extraprostatic extension for outer gland cancer . outer gland cancers showed increased aggressive behavior of both histologic and biologic nature . the difference in biologic aggressiveness of outer and inner gland cancers has definite implications for treatment options . use of other diagnostic parameters , such as dna ploidy , may help to determine which cancers to treat and when to treat them ; this may have more relevance for cancers originating in the inner gland . strategic transrectal ultrasound guided biopsy affords accurate tumor mapping and staging when modes of internal spread and escape of cancer from both outer and inner gland are known . thus , transrectal ultrasound may be our " window of observation " through which additional research may explain the histologic and biologic discrepancies between outer and inner gland cancers . 
the natural history of colorectal cancer . opportunities for intervention . there is now a better understanding of the natural history of colorectal cancer , which has provided a basis for intervention to influence outcome . the possible interventions include earlier detection of colorectal cancer , removal of premalignant adenomas , demonstration of the mucosal field defect that precedes neoplasia to evaluate baseline risk and its change with dietary modification , and identification of inherited and dietary risk factors . five controlled trials evaluating early detection of colorectal cancer with fecal occult blood testing have enrolled more than 309,000 patients . early stage cancers with improved survival has been observed , but data on mortality reduction have not as yet been reported . studies of patients with adenomas have demonstrated high synchronous and metachronous rates as a basis for complete colon evaluation initially and a surveillance follow-up program . hyperproliferation and lack of normal differentiation have been observed as a field defect in the colon preceding neoplasia . inherited factors have recently been shown to be important in a larger proportion of individuals destined to develop colorectal adenomas and cancer . these observations of the natural history of colorectal cancer have provided new opportunities for the application of radiologic and endoscopic techniques in diagnosis and surveillance ; each examination has its merit . further research is needed to answer many critical questions that have been raised regarding the impact of these interventions . 
imaging techniques in the diagnosis of carcinoma of the colon . the variability in the published results for colonoscopy and barium enema examinations is confusing . with both , optimum results are dependent on meticulous preparation , technical excellence , and operator proficiency . it is a mistake to place colonoscopy and the barium enema in competitive positions ; the two methods ideally complement one another in the evaluation of high risk individuals , including those with positive hemoccult tests . the exclusion of significant pathology by the double-contrast enema can be relied on and is less costly to the patient . detection of abnormalities by a barium enema should , when necessary , be followed by colonoscopic verification and/or biopsy . when used in this sequence , the procedures provide a cost-effective approach to the early detection and control of cancer ; it is estimated that observance of the acs guidelines can reduce mortality rates by 30 % . 
imaging bone tumors in the 1990s . progress in bone tumor management has occurred as a result of cooperation among surgeons , oncologists , pathologists , and radiologists . during the 1990s radiologists will contribute to care of patients with bone tumors in major ways . tumor detection and preliminary diagnosis will be accomplished by radiography . tumor local extent will be assessed by magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) and to a lesser degree by computed tomography ( ct ) . distant spread of malignancy will be documented by radionuclide scintigraphy ( skeleton ) and by ct ( lungs ) . the combined estimate of local extent and distant spread will assure adequate staging before definitive management decisions . preoperative closed percutaneous biopsy for histologic diagnosis will be accomplished on an outpatient basis under fluoroscopic or ct guidance . arteriography will be employed for delivery of local chemotherapy . some combination of arteriography , mri , and mr spectroscopy will be used to evaluate tumor response . after limb-salvage surgery , mri will sequentially assess the tumor bed ; bone scintigraphy and ct will detect skeletal and pulmonary metastases . the radiologist 's role will undergo continuous redefinition . 
primary neoplasms of the hollow organs of the gastrointestinal tract . staging and follow-up . the number of imaging modalities available to stage and follow-up patients with primary neoplasms of the gastrointestinal ( gi ) tract continues to increase . magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) , computed tomography ( ct ) , and ultrasonography are useful techniques for both staging and follow-up . for staging , ct is most frequently used for the detection of liver metastases and is increasingly used as a substitute for the chest radiograph in the detection of lung metastases . ct is still the imaging test of choice for the preoperative staging of esophageal carcinoma . ct is less helpful in staging the patient with gastric carcinoma or colorectal carcinoma . the current usefulness of mri in the staging of gi tract malignancies is limited by the lack of an adequate oral intraluminal contrast agent and degradation of images due to motion . sonography , especially the new technique of endoscopic ultrasound , is promising for the detection of local invasion from gi tract malignancies . ct is used in the follow-up of patients with tumors of the gi tract to detect liver , adrenal , and nodal metastases as well as local recurrence because of the ability of ct to detect extraluminal masses . ct of the pelvis has been recommended as a routine follow-up procedure in patients who have undergone abdominal-peroneal resection . both ct and mri can be used to detect local recurrence , but suffer from the inability to differentiate scar from recurrent tumor . the initial hope that mri would be capable of differentiating postoperative scar tissue from recurrent tumor has not been realized . therefore , with positive ct or mri findings , occasionally a percutaneous biopsy will be required to confirm local recurrence . 
liver tumor imaging . liver tumor imaging is the paradigm of the dilemma of diagnostic decision-making in the current era of abundant high technology . in part , this is a reflection of the multiplicity of imaging techniques now in wide use worldwide . these include ultrasound ( us ) , radionuclide scintigraphy ( rns ) , computed tomography ( ct ) , magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) , and techniques especially designed for staging the extent of known liver cancer , such as computed tomography during arterial portography ( ctap ) and intraoperative ultrasound ( ious ) . most authorities concede that ct scanning is the single test most closely fitting the designation " gold standard " for liver tumor imaging , although mri , a less mature technique , is already preferred by some . local factors profoundly influence the selection and sequence of imaging studies , including available equipment , radiologic skills , institutional interests , and especially the specific clinical circumstances of the patient . thus , diagnostic algorithms or decision trees for sequential imaging workup of liver tumor suspects tend to be somewhat institution specific . 
staging and follow-up of breast cancer patients . staging systems for breast cancer , unlike those of neoplasms in distant or recessed sites , allowed for the early development of clinical staging evaluation . it was established that clinical assessment of the breast lesion was often wrong compared with the pathologic examination ( benign vs. malignant ) ; clinical measurement of the tumor in centimeters was often larger than histologic size ; and clinical assessment of axillary nodes ( clear or metastatic ) was incorrect in about 30 % of cases . although both clinical and pathologic staging provide effective discriminants for prognosis of treated patients , prognosis is more accurately determined by the pathologic stage . the single most important prognostic indicator is the axillary nodal status , and when positive , the number of positive nodes . the american joint committee on cancer and the union international contra cancer have agreed on a tnm staging for breast carcinoma , and this is the preferable staging system . follow-up of treated patients is of most value in detecting local recurrence on the chest wall ( after mastectomy ) or in the irradiated breast ( after lumpectomy ) , and also in early detection of contralateral breast cancer . physical examination and periodic mammography are most useful . there is a tendency to overinvestigate asymptomatic patients ( with bone scans , blood tests , etc. ) , but this has been correctly criticized in recent years . 
oncologic imaging . staging and follow-up of renal and adrenal carcinoma . computed tomography ( ct ) has emerged from the 1980s to play a dominant role in the pretreatment staging of renal and adrenal carcinomas . for detection , definition ( staging ) , and determination of resectability or recurrence , ct with intravenous contrast enhancement , and more recently , magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) with gadolinium-dtpa , may be the only cross-sectional imaging studies required before institution of appropriate therapy . carcinoma of the kidney is frequently diagnosed by serendipity or detected on incidental ultrasound or ct examinations . real-time ultrasound and color flow doppler offer unique information on tumor vascularity and major venous vascular involvement . positive predictive values of 96 % can be achieved for the diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma using contrast-enhanced ct scanning . for follow-up ct and mri are the best imaging techniques for evaluation of the retroperitoneum . mri may distinguish tumor recurrence from fibrosis in selected cases . because primary neoplasms of the adrenal gland are rare and often exceed 10 cm at the time of initial diagnosis , the functional nature ( endocrine ) of adrenal carcinoma may be part of the clinical presentation . because initial stage is critical to survival and extent of surgical therapy , a knowledge of tumor classification is essential to the optimal diagnostic evaluation . newer imaging tests , ct and mri , have superseded conventional urography , ultrasound , and radionuclide studies for the diagnosis and staging of adrenal cancer . early diagnosis and low stage at presentation are critical to survival in patients with adrenal carcinoma . the current concepts for pretreatment imaging evaluation and the role of ct , mri , and ultrasound are outlined . an oncologic imaging approach based on tumor staging and classification for patients with real or suspected renal cell carcinoma and adrenal carcinoma is essential to optimal patient care . 
primary neoplasms of the central nervous system in children . modern diagnostic imaging techniques are able to detect primary neoplasms of the central nervous system ( cns ) in children safely and accurately but with less specificity as to cell type or degree of malignancy . these neoplasms , often peculiar in cell type and size , mediated by hydrocephalus in their clinical presentation , demand careful and often extensive imaging techniques best to evaluate their geography and character . added to these basic observations , determination of the neoplasm from surrounding edema , detection of possible spread , and evaluation of residual or recurrent neoplasm are prime responsibilities of the pediatric neuroradiologist toward the child , neurosurgeon , and oncologist . 
magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of spinal tumors . magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) , which has recently begun to replace myelography , postmyelography computed tomography ( ct ) , and to some extent , bone scans , has become the procedure of choice in the evaluation of spinal tumors ; the applications of mri in this role are reviewed . in the extradural space , mri is the most sensitive technique for the detection of tumors in the vertebral bodies . at the same time , it provides superb delineation of suspected thecal sac impingement . in the intradural extramedullary space , mri is generally as accurate as myelography and postmyelography ct while being noninvasive . finally , in the intramedullary space , mri is unquestionably the procedure of choice in the evaluation of suspected cord tumors . in general , mri has become the best initial procedure in the evaluation of suspected tumors of the spine , regardless of the space in which they may lie ; frequently , it is the only required examination . 
radioimmunology . imaging and therapy . targeting of radioactivity to tumors using antitumor antibodies is evolving from a laboratory curiosity toward a practical diagnostic and therapeutic technique that promises widespread benefits for many common human cancers . the development of the hybridoma technique by kohler and milstein for producing monoclonal antibodies is probably the single most important contribution to the development of this field . a large array of monoclonal antibodies against many human tumors have been created and labeled with a variety of radioisotopes ; 110 clinical trials have been identified from the literature between the interval of 1978 to the present . these studies are beginning to form the basis for certain conclusions regarding likely benefits for certain combinations of antitumor antibodies and isotopes in specific instances of clinical management in patients with malignant neoplasms . for example , in melanoma , lymphoma , neuroblastoma , and colorectal malignancies , radiolabeled antibodies have demonstrated occult tumors , which could not be disclosed with conventional methodologies . radioimmunotherapy of malignant lymphoma is achieving durable remissions in patients who have failed conventional forms of therapy . for the most part , these advances have been achieved through intelligent application of known principles of immunochemistry , imaging physics , and tumor immunology . progress has been slow but steady . in a few instances , the term " magic bullet " is warranted in describing the targeting of a particular radiolabeled antibody to a human tumor . i-131 , 3-f8 , an igg3 against the gd2 antigen of neuroblastoma , which was introduced by cheung , and in-111 t-101 , against the cd5 antigen of t-cells , which was developed by royston , stand out because of the consistency and high concentration of radioactive targeting to human tumors in clinical trials . if certain technical innovations fulfill their initial promise , the future will be bright for radioimmunologic methods of diagnosis and therapy . genetic engineering will permit the development of " humanized " antibodies with biologic properties that favor tumor localization . new chemical approaches will broaden the range of isotopes available as diagnostic and therapeutic radiolabels . application of modern imaging methodologies , such as positron emission tomography ( pet ) , will detect more lesions of smaller size and permit quantitative imaging for dosimetry considerations . greater speed and ease of use of computerized work stations will lead to the broader application of fusion imaging in which radioantibody images will be viewed simultaneously with tct or mri for better anatomic correlation of abnormal sites of antigen-reactive tumor deposits . 
single photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography in cancer imaging . single photon emission computed tomography ( spect ) and positron emission tomography ( pet ) are now being used to improve the information available from radioisotopic imaging of patients with cancer . these nuclear medicine techniques offer the potential for studying regional function and biochemistry by using radiolabeled substrates . the chemical changes of malignancy precede anatomic changes , and pet and/or spect may detect these changes before anatomic changes have occurred . the superiority of spect compared with planar imaging has been demonstrated for cardiac and brain imaging . radiopharmaceuticals containing technetium 99 m ( 99mtc ) are best suited for spect imaging because large amounts of radioactivity are administered and the collimator-camera systems are optimized for the 140 kev photons of 99mtc . the current interest in imaging cancer with spect relates to the use of gallium 67 citrate and monoclonal antibodies labeled with iodine 123 or indium 111 . spect can image these radioisotopes , but the advantages compared with planar imaging have not been clearly defined . furthermore , the ability to quantitate the distribution of single photon emitters other than 99mtc has not been demonstrated . new spect systems with three heads or rings of detectors offer promise for improved , quantitative imaging . pet has the capability of imaging tracers with the biologically important elements c-11 , n-13 , o-15 , and f-18 used for positron labeling . these radioisotopes have short half-lives and require a cyclotron close to the pet facility . the most prominently used radiopharmaceutical for pet is f-18 fluorodeoxyglucose ( fdg ) . pet studies with fdg in patients with primary brain tumors have demonstrated the ability to determine the degree of malignancy , to differentiate necrosis from recurrent tumor after radiation therapy or chemotherapy , and to predict prognosis . other metabolic functions of cancer have been studied , including amino acid accumulation , thymidine uptake , oxygen utilization , intermediary metabolism , and receptor status . pet has the potential to make a major impact on the characterization of a malignancy and the effect of therapy . 
new directions in medical imaging of cancer . magnetic resonance methods and single photon emission computed tomography . magnetic resonance methods and single photon emission computed tomography ( spect ) are developing technologies that provide both functional and anatomic information . their role in the diagnosis and monitoring of cancer is the subject of current clinical research . magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) delineates organs and tissue heterogeneities using differences in the relaxation parameters of water and fat protons ; both protons and other nuclei can be imaged or studied by magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( mrs ) to provide information on the state of naturally occurring or infused molecules . spect quantifies the distribution of radiolabeled agents in tissues and organs ; labeled monoclonal antibodies provide highly specific imaging of tumors . spatial resolution is the limiting technologic factor . proton mri provides the highest current resolution , better than 1 mm in vivo in deep tissues , whereas the resolution of mrs and spect is limited to several cubic centimeters . recent advances in these technologies have significantly increased their specificity and ability to detect small , deep lesions . 
imaging of adult central nervous system primary malignant gliomas . staging and follow-up . a classification and staging system for primary adult gliomas was proposed . this system uses the high signal intensity found on proton density or t2-weighted magnetic resonance ( mr ) scans at the site of the tumor and surrounding edema ( including infiltrating tumor ) . 
proliferation and dna ploidy in malignant breast tumors in relation to early oral contraceptive use and early abortions . in 175 premenopausal breast cancer patients , a history of oral contraceptive ( oc ) use before 20 years of age was significantly associated with higher tumor cell proliferative activity , as indicated by a higher s-phase fraction ( spf ) , and a higher fraction of dna aneuploid tumors , compared with later or never users ( p = 0.05 and p = 0.01 , respectively ) . the higher spf among early oc users was apparent in patients with aneuploid tumors but not in patients with euploid tumors . abortions ( spontaneous or induced ) before the first full-term pregnancy also were associated with a higher spf compared with other young patients with breast cancer ( p = 0.03 ) . adjusting for parity and abortions or oc use , respectively , an early oc use was associated with a 43 % higher spf and early abortions were associated with 49 % higher spf . younger patients had a higher spf and a higher frequency of aneuploid tumors , but this was found to be because the users of oc had a lower median age at diagnosis . among never users , no significant age relationship was seen for spf or the frequency of aneuploidy . for the dna analyses there is a selection of patients with breast cancer with larger tumors , and therefore the conclusions drawn in this article may not be generalizable to patients with smaller primary tumors , e.g. , cases diagnosed at breast cancer screening . the higher tumor proliferative activity and frequency of aneuploidy in early oc users are in line with previously reported findings of worse prognostic indicators and a worse survival in early users of oc compared with other young women with breast cancer . 
treatment of patients with advanced colorectal cancer with cisplatin , 5-fluorouracil , and leucovorin . based on in vitro studies that have demonstrated synergy between 5-fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) , leucovorin ( lv ) , and cisplatin ( cddp ) against human colon cancer cell lines , a clinical trial was initiated to determine the effects of this combination in patients with advanced unresectable colorectal carcinoma . fifty-nine patients were enrolled in the study and 12 of them had received prior conventional 5-fu chemotherapy . treatment consisted of 4 weekly courses of high-dose lv ( 200 mg/m2 ) administered by intravenous ( iv ) bolus , followed by 5-fu ( 550 mg/m2 ) and cddp ( 20 mg/m2 ) each administered as a 2-hour infusion on 4 consecutive days . after a median of 5.5 treatment cycles , objective tumor response was seen in 20 of 59 patients ( 34 % ) ( this included 3 complete remissions ) . the response rate in the 47 previously untreated patients was 38 % ( 95 % confidence limits , 26 % to 53 % ) . stable disease occurred in 16 ( 27 % ) patients , whereas the tumor progressed in 23 ( 39 % ) patients . the median survival time was 11.5 months , with 15 % of the patients alive at 2 years . the regimen was well tolerated and the primary side effects were mild and reversible gastrointestinal symptoms and myelosuppression . there was no episode of life-threatening toxicity . eastern cooperative oncology group ( ecog ) grade iii adverse reactions that required 25 % dose reductions occurred in only 14 % of the patients . the results of this trial suggest that 5-fu , lv , and cddp is an active , safe , and well-tolerated combination regimen in patients with advanced colorectal cancer . 
serum tumor markers and patient allocation to good-risk and poor-risk clinical trials in patients with germ cell tumors . the allocation of patients with advanced germ cell tumors ( gct ) to different treatment programs based on clinical characteristics is standard in the design of clinical trials today . studies have shown that substantial differences exist between entry criteria and that these differences could influence the outcome of clinical trials . the factors contributing to these differences are not clear due to patient selection biases . two hundred five unselected and consecutive patients allocated to and treated in good-risk and poor-risk treatment programs at memorial sloan-kettering cancer center ( mskcc ) were reassigned risk status by the indiana university ( iu ) classification . the results were compared with those of the southeastern cancer study group ( secsg ) . the results using both criteria indicated substantial agreement in total end results and the identification of good-risk patients . the results in poor-risk patients differed substantially , with 39 patients ( 19 % ) classified as poor-risk by mskcc criteria and 66 ( 32 % ) by indiana criteria . the major discrepancy occurred in iu stage 7 , in which 26 of 32 patients ( 81 % ) achieved a complete response . the major factor contributing to this difference in risk assignment was the use of serum tumor markers . serum tumor markers must be incorporated into risk assignment criteria for gct clinical trials to minimize the number of good-risk gct patients in poor-risk trials . 
salvage chemotherapy for patients with germ cell tumors . the memorial sloan-kettering cancer center experience ( 1979-1989 ) . twenty-eight of 124 ( 23 % ) advanced germ cell tumor ( gct ) patients who were treated on four successive platin-based induction regimens and who failed to achieve a durable complete response ( cr ) remain alive ( median follow-up , 50 months ) . an analysis of prognostic factors for response and survival was conducted on the 94 patients who received salvage chemotherapy . survival and/or response to salvage therapy were significantly enhanced for patients with a prior cr to induction chemotherapy , treatment with a cisplatin-based salvage regimen , a testis primary site , a normal serum human chorionic gonadotropin level , a normal serum lactate dehydrogenase level , one site of metastasis , and an indiana class of 6 or less . patients with a prior incomplete response ( ir ) had a particularly poor prognosis ( p = 0.00007 ) with only 4 of 52 ( 9 % ) patients alive ( median follow-up , 37 months ) compared with 15 of 42 ( 36 % ) patients with a prior best response of a cr ( median follow-up , 35 months ) . the poor survival of patients who fail to achieve a durable cr to induction chemotherapy warrants the continued investigation of new salvage therapy . the identification of prognostic features may direct salvage therapy and aid in the interpretation of clinical trials of salvage regimens . 
radiation therapy in metastatic spinal cord compression . a prospective analysis of 105 consecutive patients . one hundred thirty consecutive patients with metastatic spinal cord compression ( mscc ) were entered in a therapeutic protocol in which radiation therapy ( rt ) played the main role . when mscc is diagnosed by clinical-radiologic methods such as myelography with or without computed tomography ( ct ) or magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) , steroids are given and rt treatment started within 24 hours . when diagnostic doubts exist or stabilization is necessary , surgery precedes rt . chemohormonal potentially responsive tumors are also treated with chemotherapy or hormonal therapy . twelve patients ( 9.2 % ) underwent surgery plus rt , and 118 ( 90.8 % ) received rt alone . thirteen ( 11 % ) early death patients were not evaluable . the 105 evaluable cases that received rt alone were analyzed . median follow-up was 15 months ( range , 4 to 38 months ) . response among patients with back pain was 80 % . in cases with motor dysfunction , 48.6 % improved , and in 33 of 105 patients ( 31.4 % ) without motor disability there was no deterioration . forty percent of patients with autonomic dysfunction responded to rt . median survival time was 7 months with a 36 % probability of survival for 1 year . the median duration of improvement was 8 months . the most important prognostic factor was early diagnosis . radiosensitivity of tumor was only important in paraparetic patients in predicting response to rt . complete myelographic block significantly diminished response to rt . vertebral collapse did not influence response or survival . 
the prognostic value of image analysis in ovarian cancer . histologic grading is very important for treatment decisions in ovarian cancer . all grading systems contain a significant subjective component , which could be reduced by including objective measurements into the diagnostic decision . image analysis was used to determine nuclear area and ploidy distributions in 42 patients with epithelial ovarian cancer , and the results were related to tumor grade and clinical outcome . the mean nuclear area , mean optical density , number of hyperploid cells , and the standard deviation between measurements were significantly higher in grade 2 and 3 tumors compared with grade 1 tumors , in rapidly progressive tumors compared with less aggressive malignancies , and in recurrent tumors compared with primary lesions . the number of nuclei with very high dna content was found to be of prognostic importance . image analysis thus provides additional prognostic information in epithelial ovarian cancer . 
resection of the primary liver cancer of the hepatic hilus . primary liver cancer ( plc ) of the hepatic hilus was designated as a tumor situated at the main branch of the portal vein or pedicle of the hepatic veins in contact with the intrahepatic vena cava . that is , the main tumor located at segment i , iv , v , or viii and concentrating on the central part of the liver was called " the central type of plc , " which differed from a tumor located at segment ii , iii , vi , or vii ; the latter was called " the peripheral type of plc. " surgical treatment of the plc has been significantly improved in the past two decades , but the resection of the central type of plc is difficult and hazardous . this institution admitted 903 plc from january 1970 to april 1988 , of which 118 cases were the central type ; 65 cases were resected successfully , a resectability of 55.1 % . one patient died from sepsis within 1 month of operation ( mortality 1.53 % ) . the modes of operation for the different segments are described , and suggestions for improvements are presented . the survival rates were compared with a similar number of patients with the peripheral type of tumor in the same period and treated by the same surgeons . the results show noticeable differences . the one-year , three-year , and five-year survival rates after resection were 70.9 % , 43.2 % , and 39.2 % in the central type of plc ; they were 98.3 % , 85.0 % , and 76.4 % in the peripheral type of plc ( p less than 0.001 ) . further discussion of improvements in surgical techniques and mental awareness are suggested . 
structural and functional integrity of ovarian tumor tissue obtained by ultrasonic aspiration . for patients with ovarian epithelial cancer , survival increases when residual disease approaches zero after surgical removal of the tumor . a previous study using the cavitron ultrasonic surgical aspirator ( cusa ) ( cavitron lasersonic corp. , stamford , ct ) showed the successful removal of ovarian tumors from areas often considered unresectable : the diaphragm , spleen , stomach , and small bowel . however , the cusa has not yet been approved by the food and drug administration for gynecologic surgery except on an experimental basis . this study was designed to test whether ultrasonic irradiation produced by the cusa caused alterations in cell structure or physiology of gynecologic tissue in adjacent areas . paired tumor samples , unirradiated and irradiated , were obtained from ten patients , and portions were sent for pathologic structural evaluation and physiologic tissue culture evaluation . histologic sections , stained with hematoxylin and eosin , showed that cusa irradiation produced only minor tissue distortion as observed under the light microscope . a correct diagnosis would have been made in all cases had only tissue fragments obtained from the cusa specimen trap been stained . for nine of ten patients , initial tumor cell viability was similar in the two specimen types . flow cytometric dna analysis confirmed that surgical methods produced matched samples . cells that survived high-frequency ultrasound appeared functionally intact . for five of eight patients , the cells from the cusa specimen traps survived and/or divided to a greater extent than those from the knife-dissected tumors . cells from both surgical routes attained a similar number of passages in culture . it seems reasonable to extrapolate these in vitro observations with pelvic tumor tissues to normal surrounding tissue left in situ . thus pelvic tissue is believed to be uninjured by cusa ultrasonic irradiation . 
induction of cytotoxicity of the renal hilar lymph nodes by pedal subcutaneous administration of interleukin-2 in patients with renal cancer . the authors attempted to increase the cytotoxicity of the renal hilar lymph nodes in ten patients with renal cell carcinoma by administration of recombinant interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) into the subcutaneous tissue of the instep . a total of 5000 to 21,000 units was given over 3 to 12 preoperative days . mononuclear cells separated from the lymph nodes excised from the renal hilum at surgery served as the effector cells . fresh autologous tumor cells and three cultured cell lines , k562 , raji , and achn , served as the target cells . cytotoxicity was measured by a chromium-releasing assay . the results showed that the mononuclear cells from the lymph nodes of the patients given il-2 became cytotoxic to all target cells . surface markers of lymphocytes in the lymph nodes were unchanged . peripheral blood lymphocytes showed increased cytotoxicity only against raji cells . adverse effects were mild or moderate and included local redness , high fever , liver dysfunction , and toxic erythema . 
the lewis x antigen . a new paraffin section marker for reed-sternberg cells . using a monoclonal antibody specific to the lewis x antigen ( anti-lex ) , the authors studied 103 cases of hodgkin 's disease ( hd ) in comparison with 57 cases of non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( nhl ) ; three cases of granulocytic sarcoma ( gs ) ; two cases of malignant histiocytosis ( mh ) ; one case of monoblastic leukemia ( ml ) ; one case of interdigitating reticulum cell sarcoma ( ircs ) ; six cases of histiocytosis x ( hx ) ; one case of reticulohistiocytoma ( rh ) ; 44 various reactive conditions of the lymph node ( ln ) . reed-sternberg and related ( r-s ) cells stained selectively in 80 of 92 cases of hd ( 87.0 % ) , excluding 11 cases of lymphocyte predominance type . the stain was better in b-5-fixed specimens than in formalin-fixed specimens , showing a dense deposit of reaction products at a paranuclear site and on the cell surface . the staining results were compared with those of leu-m1 and found to be superior both qualitatively and quantitatively ( detection rate of r-s cells : 87.0 % versus 68.5 % of leu-m1 ) . granulocytes , rare epithelioid histiocytes , and some endothelial and/or erythrocytes also stained with anti-lex . the stain had positive results in three cases of gs showing a diffuse cytoplasmic staining pattern . of nhl , two of 29 peripheral t-cell lymphomas stained to show rare paranuclear deposits without cell surface staining . the stain had negative results in mh , ml , ircs , hx , and rh . of 45 reactive ln , minute subcapsular collections of lewis x + , altered-appearing langerhans ' - like cells , were observed in all ten ln from human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - associated persistent generalized lymphadenopathy ( pgl ) . the stain had negative results in all other various reactive conditions of ln . in conclusion , lewis x staining is useful as a marker for r-s cells in paraffin sections with staining results superior to those of leu-m1 . lewis x staining also detects subcapsular clustering of altered-appearing langerhans ' - like cells in pgl , which has not been described previously and warrants additional study . 
receptors for epidermal growth factor and steroid hormones in primary laryngeal tumors . the authors investigated the presence of epidermal growth factor ( egf-r ) , estrogen ( er ) , progesterone ( pr ) , and androgen ( ar ) receptors in 42 laryngeal squamous cell carcinomas and 20 normal laryngeal mucosa specimens . egf-r were expressed in all tumor specimens analyzed , with significantly higher levels in tumor samples compared with normal mucosa ( p less than 0.05 ) . the immunohistochemical study demonstrated the presence of egf-r in basal and parabasal cells of normal mucosa and in most of the cancer cells . there was no correlation between egf-r and tumor localization or t classification . on the other hand , the authors did find an interesting correlation between egf-r levels and grading , egf-r levels being significantly higher in g3 than in g1-g2 tumors . moreover , the three patients whose tumors expressed the highest egf-r levels had disease recur within 8 months . among tumor specimens , 9.5 % , 35.7 % , and 9.5 % expressed very low but detectable er , pr , and ar levels , respectively . no statistically significant difference was found between the levels of steroid receptors in the tumor and normal mucosa specimens , and neither was there any correlation of er , pr , and ar with the pathologic findings . the authors ' results suggest that the egf-r system may play a role in regulating the growth of laryngeal cancer . additional studies should demonstrate whether , as in other tumor types , egf-r expression may have prognostic significance in human laryngeal cancer . 
the expression of progesterone receptors coincides with an arrest of dna synthesis in human breast cancer . two main models to account for the heterogeneous expression of estrogen receptors ( er ) and progesterone receptors ( pr ) in human breast cancer have been proposed : the clonal model and the stem cell model . the authors previously provided evidence supporting the stem cell model since it was found that most of the proliferating cells in er-positive ( er + ) human breast cancer lack er and that the er-negative ( er - ) and er + subpopulations are interrelated . the authors have analyzed in eighteen er + / pr + primary breast tumors the simultaneous expression of er or pr ( by immunohistochemistry ) and dna synthesis ( by autoradiography ) after 30 minutes of 3h-thymidine incorporation . the authors demonstrated that : ( 1 ) the average numbers of er + and pr + cells were similar ( 36.8 + / - 10.7 % and 39.3 + / - 17.6 % , respectively ) ; ( 2 ) the thymidine-labeling indexes of the er + , er - , pr + , and pr - subpopulations were 0.53 + / - 0.69 % , 0.74 + / - 0.49 % , 0.21 + / - 0.21 and 0.94 + / - 0.54 % , respectively ; and ( 3 ) 75.2 % of the dna-synthesizing cells were er - , and 88.8 % of them were pr - . the authors conclude that the cellular subpopulations expressing er and pr were not identical , and the expression of pr was associated with a lower rate of cellular proliferation than was er expression . 
lymphomas of the breast . a clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of primary and secondary cases . primary mammary lymphoma is rare , and little is known about the immunophenotype of such cases . the authors studied both primary and secondary breast lymphomas with a broad panel of t - and b-cell markers using paraffin-embedded tissue and the avidin-biotin immunoperoxidase method . cases of primary b-cell lymphoma were further tested to determine light and heavy chain type . thirty-five cases were analyzed , including 16 primary lymphomas . diffuse large cell lymphoma was present in ten of 16 primary and 14 of 18 secondary cases . lymphoepithelial lesions in ducts and lobules and frequent vascular involvement were found in both primary and secondary cases . immunohistochemistry studies on 13 tumors revealed all of the primary tumors to be b-cell in origin , except for one case of primary t-cell lymphoma ; to the authors ' knowledge , this represents the first description of this entity . fifteen of 17 secondary tumors exhibited b-cell markers and one of 17 exhibited t-cell markers ; in only one case could lineage not be determined . among primary b-cell cases , igm was found to be the most frequent heavy chain type ; iga reactivity was found in only one case . survival was related to stage and histologic characteristics ; patients with stage ii disease and higher grade histologic lesions had a worse prognosis . half of the patients with primary lymphoma have had recurrent disease . although local recurrences were observed , the authors also saw a tendency for recurrence in other extranodal sites . the authors conclude that , although primary lymphoma of the breast is compatible with long-term survival , a significant number of patients eventually die of their disease . as with other extranodal lymphomas , survival rate appears most related to stage of disease . also , the vast majority of primary tumors are b-cell in origin , express igm heavy chain , and can be considered tumors of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue . 
prognostic implications of dna histogram , dna content , and histologic changes of regional lymph nodes in patients with lung cancer . forty-six cases of resected lung cancer , including 20 cases at stages i and ii and 26 cases at stage iii ( n2 ) , were subdivided into two groups : a good prognosis group with a longer survival period and a poor prognosis group in which the patients died earlier of the cancer . from paraffin-embedded lymph node tissues of these patients , the authors examined dna histogram pattern and dna content , using flow cytometry , and histologic hyperplasia of germinal center and paracortical area ; they also evaluated their correlation with the prognosis . in the good prognosis group at stages i and ii , paracortical hyperplasia ( ph ) of the lymph nodes was observed significantly more frequently . in the good prognosis group at stage iii , the incidence of ph , g2m phase in the dna histograms , and dna content were all significantly higher . dna content was positively correlated with the grade of ph. 
association of expression between n-myc gene and major histocompatibility complex class i gene in surgically resected human neuroblastoma . amplification of the n-myc gene in neuroblastoma correlates with advanced stage and poor prognosis . association of the expression between n-myc and major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) class i genes in 33 neuroblastomas obtained from japanese children was investigated . amplification of the n-myc gene was observed in two of five cases in stage iii , six of 11 cases in stage iv , and one of five cases in stage iv-s . in each case , the expression of n-myc gene was significantly increased . the expression was also increased in cases without amplification of the n-myc gene , the origin being from the suprarenal region . expression of the mhc class i gene was significantly decreased in five of these nine with a high level of n-myc expression with amplification . these results suggest that the down-modulation of the mhc class i expression may be associated with the high level of expression and amplification of n-myc gene in the advanced stage of neuroblastoma . 
clinical significance of hematologic parameters in non-hodgkin 's lymphoma at diagnosis . three hundred seventeen patients with non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( nhl ) ( 54 low grade , 180 intermediate grade , 76 high grade , and seven unclassified ) treated with chemotherapy were evaluated for the presence of hematologic abnormalities at diagnostic staging . anemia was present in 42 % , leukopenia in 6 % , thrombocytopenia in 13 % , leukocytosis in 26 % , and thrombocytosis in 14 % at presentation . the presence of bone marrow involvement by lymphoma was more likely to be associated with leukopenia and thrombocytopenia than the absence of bone marrow involvement . although anemia was slightly more common in patients with bone marrow lymphoma than in those without marrow lymphoma , the difference was not statistically significant . hematologic parameters were similar for patients with b-cell or t-cell lymphoma . evidence of bone marrow failure with multiple cytopenias was present in 26 patients ( 8 % ) . leukoerythroblastosis was present in 2 % . circulating lymphoma was present in 9.5 % . anemic patients had a shorter survival time than nonanemic patients , whether bone marrow was involved by lymphoma or not . survival was not affected by the presence of leukopenia or mild leukocytosis , but , in patients without marrow lymphoma , leukocytosis with a leukocyte count greater than 20 x 10 ( 9 ) / l was associated with short survival length . thrombocytopenia was associated with short survival time only in patients with bone marrow involvement by lymphoma . patients with multiple cytopenias or leukoerythroblastosis had short survival times , but the presence of circulating lymphoma did not alter survival when compared with other patients with bone marrow involvement by lymphoma . these data suggest that hematologic evaluation at the time of diagnostic staging of nhl provides useful prognostic information that may have therapeutic implications . 
amplification of oncogenes in mammary carcinoma shown by fine-needle biopsy . a procedure that measures the amplification of oncogenes in human cancer cells is described . the cells were obtained by fine-needle biopsy to allow repeated sampling from individual metastases . a drawback was the low number of cells obtained , but this could be overcome by using a slot-blot hybridization technique to measure gene amplification . two patients with mammary cancer ( primary tumors or metastases ) , analyzed for the levels of amplification of the oncogene erb-b2 , are described in detail . this technique is suitable for analyzing alterations occurring during cancer progression and for identifying subgroups of mammary cancer with different characteristics . 
flow cytometric determination of breast tumor heterogeneity . flow cytometric analysis was done on the dna content of nuclei obtained from different sites of small breast tumors . although specimens for analysis were obtained within a few millimeters of each other , dramatic differences were occasionally observed in the dna histograms . in a limited study involving 141 consecutive breast specimens submitted for flow cytometry , 52 % ( 74 ) were found to have at least one dna aneuploid population . in 18 % of dna aneuploid tumors , one or more specimens from areas grossly identified as tumor had no dna aneuploid population . because of the proposed correlation of aneuploidy with a poorer prognosis and possible responsiveness to chemotherapy , multiple sites should be assayed when flow cytometric dna analysis is done . 
predicting recurrence time of esophageal carcinoma through assessment of histologic factors and dna ploidy . cytophotometric analysis of nuclear dna content was done in 128 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus . the relationship among histopathologic features , dna distribution pattern , and survival time was investigated from the standpoint of recurrence . of 128 patients , 77 ( 60.1 % ) died of recurrence within 2 years after surgery : 16 ( 12.5 % ) from 2 to 5 years and two ( 1.6 % ) over 5 years . the rate of death of recurrence within 2 years was higher in patients with t4 or n1 than t1 , t2 , and t3 or n0 ( p less than 0.01 ) . survivors over 5 years more frequently possessed type ii dna pattern than types iii and iv ( p less than 0.05 ) . the rate of death of recurrence within 2 years was 34.4 % in type ii , which was lower than the 59.6 % rate in type iii ( p less than 0.05 ) and the 76.6 % rate in type iv ( p less than 0.01 ) . survivors from 2 to 5 years were higher in type iii than in type iv ( p less than 0.05 ) , and recurrence over 5 years was found only in type ii . this inclination was more apparent in those with curative resection . in the patients with type ii , careful follow-up may be needed over 5 years for late recurrence . however , in those with type iv , no recurrence over 2 years could be regarded as healed because most of their recurrences occur within 2 years . these findings suggest that the growth rate of esophageal carcinoma should reflect dna aneuploidy , and the dna analysis of esophageal carcinoma should be a valuable parameter for postoperative follow-up planning . 
primary and metastatic pulmonary meningioma . patient 1 was a 53-year-old man who had a very rare primary pulmonary meningioma that developed in the left lingular segment . when this report was written , 7 years had passed since he underwent operation , and no recurrence of the meningioma had been detected . in patient 2 , a 61-year-old woman , multiple pulmonary metastases were confirmed 19 years after she had undergone operation for multiple cerebellar meningiomas , and the metastases were resected . after 2 years , multiple intraperitoneal metastases were found , and thus aggressive surgery was performed . currently , 22 years after the operation for the primary cerebellar meningioma , the patient is alive without any subjective symptoms , although intraperitoneal metastases have recurred . to date , only four cases ( all in women ) of primary pulmonary meningioma have been reported . case 1 reported in this article is thus the first case in a male patient to be reported , and , in addition , this patient also has the first reported case to have been evaluated for more than 5 years . in case 2 , however , each of the excised extracranial tumor lesions was histologically homogeneous and showed a hemangiopericytomatous pattern . the histologic picture of those tumor lesions was exactly the same as the picture of a small portion of the cerebellar meningiomas excised 19 years earlier . thus , all those extracranial tumor lesions were diagnosed to be metastatic meningiomas . however , it is difficult to explain why there had been no symptoms for as long as 19 years until the pulmonary metastases were discovered . 
transurethral-resection zone prostate cancer detected at cystoprostatectomy . a detailed histologic analysis and clinical implications . the authors identified incidental adenocarcinoma of the prostate in serial cross-sections of prostates from 61 of 100 patients having cystoprostatectomy for bladder cancer . in 20 patients , cancer foci were in the prostatic region accessible to transurethral resection ( tur ) . eight of these 20 patients had stage a1 disease ( less than or equal to 3 foci ) ; in six of these patients all foci were located at or within the transition-zone boundary only . twelve patients had stage a2 disease ( greater than 3 foci ) ; in none were more than three foci at or within the transition-zone boundary . among the 20 patients , 84 tumor foci were distributed as follows : 62 % in the peripheral zone , 10 % in the transition zone , 3 % in the central zone , and 25 % in the transition zone boundary . the authors ' data suggest that stage a prostate cancer , like larger clinically detectable cancers , is multifocal , multizonal , and similarly distributed with respect to the urethra . no case of stage a1 disease would have been reclassified as stage a2 by repeat tur of the entire transition zone and transition zone boundary . the authors ' results confirm those of previous studies that report a high incidence of residual carcinoma in regions not accessible to tur in patients with presumptive stage a1 disease and suggest that ultrasonography and ultrasonographically guided biopsies , rather than repeat tur , may more accurately define the extent of stage a disease in some patients . 
serial immunocytologic analysis of blood for tumor cells in two patients with neuroblastoma . tumor surveillance tests are used to determine whether malignant cells are responsive or resistant to therapeutic regimens . for patients with neuroblastoma , conventional methods of surveillance are not sensitive enough . because tumor cells are shed into the circulation , immunocytologic analysis of blood may function as a sensitive monitoring system . in this study , five blood samples were obtained from two patients with disseminated neuroblastoma at diagnosis and during therapy . these samples were analyzed with monoclonal antibodies and immunoperoxidase staining to determine whether circulating neuroblasts were present . in both patients , the presence or absence of circulating neuroblasts yielded information that was more sensitive than that from conventional tests . the authors conclude that immunocytologic analysis of blood should be included with conventional monitoring methods for surveillance of patients with disseminated neuroblastoma . 
primary central nervous system lymphoma as a secondary malignancy . primary central nervous system lymphoma ( pcnsl ) is a rare neoplasm , but it is occurring with increased frequency even among apparently immunocompetent patients . although secondary malignancies frequently involve the lymphoreticular system , pcnsl has been reported as a second neoplasm only once previously . seven patients are discussed who developed pcnsl after successful treatment for a prior neoplasm . the original cancer was colon ( one ) , breast ( one ) , thyroid ( one ) , hodgkin 's disease ( two ) , and non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( two ) . patients with systemic non-hodgkin 's lymphoma were thought to have a separate cerebral lymphoma on the basis of a prolonged disease-free interval from their systemic lymphoma , and the absence of systemic disease , when pcnsl was diagnosed and through subsequent follow-up . the pcnsl developed a median of 10 years after the diagnosis of the first tumor and 6 years after the last evidence of systemic disease . the diagnosis of pcnsl was often delayed because of confusion with brain metastases , and initial shrinkage or disappearance of the lesion after corticosteroids . formation of pcnsl may be a consequence of treatment for the first malignancy , reflect an unidentified inherent predisposition to neoplastic transformation , or result from the changing epidemiology of pcnsl in the general population . these mechanisms are not mutually exclusive , and a single hypothesis can not account for all these cases . 
lung cancer in patients younger than 40 years of age . the records of 52 patients younger than 40 years of age who had bronchogenic carcinoma diagnosed between 1965 and 1985 were reviewed . the preponderance of adenocarcinoma ( 54 % ) , the lower male-female ratio in this age group compared with patients age 40 or older ( 2:1 ) , the importance of cigarette smoking as a causative factor ( 80 % of patients ) , the long mean duration of symptoms ( 5 months ) , and the high incidence of advanced stage at diagnosis ( 77 % stages iii and iv ) in these patients are findings similar to those reported in other published series . there was no significant difference in resectability ( 23 % versus 19 % ) , median survival length ( 5.3 months versus 6.9 months ) , median survival length of patients who had surgical resection ( 10.5 months versus 10.8 months ) , and 5-year survival rate ( 11.5 % versus 6.3 % ) in these patients compared with a randomly selected group of 260 patients with lung cancer who were age 40 or older . 
a recurrent pelvic desmoid tumor successfully treated with tamoxifen . a case of recurrent retroperitoneal desmoid tumor successfully treated with tamoxifen ( nolvadex tablets , ici pharma , division of ici americas , wilmington , de ) is reported . the patient presented late in her second pregnancy with a large retroperitoneal pelvic desmoid tumor that was treated with surgical excision and megestrol acetate . when the tumor recurred 12 months later , it was again treated with surgery , this time followed by radiation therapy . the desmoid tumor quickly recurred . the patient was then treated with tamoxifen , resulting in a complete tumor regression that has remained stable for 27 months . tamoxifen should be considered as first-line therapy in recurrent desmoid tumors . 
the use of ketoconazole in ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone syndrome . the authors report a patient with ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone ( acth ) syndrome ( eas ) resulting from small cell lung cancer . treatment with ketoconazole ( kcz ) resulted in significant suppression of serum cortisol levels . the authors confirmed kcz to be a useful adjunct in the treatment of cushing 's syndrome . 
serous papillary adenocarcinoma of the tunica vaginalis of the testis with metastasis . testicular or paratesticular neoplasms that resemble the common epithelial type of ovarian tumor are quite rare . the authors report the case of a 29-year-old man with a metastatic serous papillary adenocarcinoma arising from the tunica vaginalis . to the authors ' knowledge , this is the first reported case of a serous carcinoma of the tunica vaginalis behaving in a malignant fashion . the fact that clinically apparent metastatic disease occurred 4 years after initial presentation suggests that development of metastases is a late event . unfortunately , the tumor has been refractory to therapy with chemotherapeutic agents with activity against ovarian malignancies . 
rural-urban differences in stage at diagnosis . possible relationship to cancer screening . stage at diagnosis was examined for various malignancies identifiable through screening to determine whether rural-urban differences exist in georgia . data were obtained from a population-based cancer registry which registers all incident cancers among residents of metropolitan atlanta and ten neighboring rural counties . black and white patients with a first primary invasive malignancy newly diagnosed between 1978 and 1985 were included in this study . residents of the rural area were twice as likely to have unstaged cancers ( 18.3 % ) as were urban residents ( 9.6 % ) . among patients with known stage at diagnosis , rural patients tended to have more advanced disease than urban patients . the relative excess of nonlocalized malignancies in rural georgia was 21 % for whites and 37 % for blacks . the rural excess of nonlocalized prostate cancer among blacks was especially pronounced . differences in access to or utilization of early detection methods may contribute to the rural-urban differential in the extent of disease at diagnosis . 
hereditary ovarian cancer . heterogeneity in age at diagnosis . an unknown fraction of the ovarian cancer burden occurs in women with a family history indicative of a putative autosomal dominantly inherited cancer susceptibility syndrome . the results from a five-generation , extended , hereditary breast-ovarian cancer kindred are described 10 years after it was initially ascertained . significantly more cancers were observed in high-risk family members during this decade than were expected ( p less than 0.001 ) . the age of ovarian cancer diagnosis was studied in additional ovarian cancer-prone families of three types : site-specific ovarian cancer syndrome , the breast-ovarian cancer syndrome , and lynch syndrome ii . the age of onset in each of the three sets was significantly ( p less than 0.001 ) earlier than the general population mean of 59 , and there were significant differences in the age of onset ( p = 0.050 ) among these three cohorts . ovarian cancer histology was similar to that of patients with negative family histories . there may be clinically significant heterogeneity in the age at diagnosis of ovarian cancer among these ovarian cancer-prone syndromes . this has important implications for understanding its natural history and targeting surveillance-management strategies . 
cancer in relatives of survivors of childhood sarcoma . relatives of 88 long-term survivors of childhood sarcoma were examined for the familial cancer syndrome of sarcoma , breast cancer , and other neoplasms ( li-fraumeni syndrome ) . twenty-six of 402 close relatives developed cancer ( expected , 23.8 ) , including breast cancer in four mothers ( expected , 3.1 ) . two sarcoma probands who developed second malignant tumors have multiple relatives with cancer and might have an inherited predisposition . an increased cancer risk and exceptional requirement for disease screening appear to be confined to first-degree relatives of a small fraction of children with sarcoma , notably probands with second cancers . 
dna ploidy pattern in rectal carcinoid tumors . the nuclear dna pattern of 22 rectal carcinoids was determined by cytophotometry of paraffin embedded tissues . the results were compared with clinical as well as histopathologic features of the tumor . three of the carcinoids with synchronous or metachronous metastasis had aneuploid dna pattern , whereas 19 tumors with no metastasis showed diploid dna pattern . no other single clinical or pathologic feature of the tumor could predict more accurately the malignant potential and the subsequent course of the rectal carcinoid . it is concluded that dna aneuploidy in rectal carcinoid tumors is not so rare as indicated by earlier studies and that it is a factor of significant prognostic value . 
detection by ct during arterial portography of colorectal cancer metastases to liver . a prospective evaluation of the accuracy of real-time ultrasonography ( us ) , computed tomography ( ct ) , infusion hepatic angiography ( iha ) , and computed tomography during arterial portography ( ct-ap ) was performed on 65 resected liver metastases of colorectal cancers . the total detection rate was 58.5 percent for us , 56.3 percent for ct , 55.4 percent for iha , and 86.2 percent for ct-ap . the sensitivity of 29 lesions with diameters of smaller than 1 cm was 65.5 percent for ct-ap , ct found only two , and both us and iha localized no more than three . the smallest lesions detectable by ct-ap were as small as 0.4 cm in diameter . ct-ap proved most useful in detecting the liver metastases , and the use of this technique is recommended for preoperative planning of hepatectomy on patients with liver metastases . 
intraepithelial bodies in colorectal adenomas : leuchtenberger bodies revisited . the presence of intraepithelial inclusion bodies ( leuchtenberger bodies ) was recorded in rectal or colonic specimens from 130 patients . large to moderate number of intraepithelial bodies were recorded in 81.8 percent of 55 colorectal adenomas from patients with familial adenomatous polyposis ( fap ) . conversely , none of the 55 non-fap adenomas or of the 20 specimens with ulcerative colitis ( 10 with dysplasia ) had similar amounts of intraepithelial granules . feulgen studies demonstrated that the granules contain dna and are probably nuclear fragments of destroyed lymphocytes . although the pathogenesis of this phenomenon remains obscure , it appears that the presence of large to moderate number of intraepithelial bodies in colorectal adenomas should strongly raise the suspicion of fap . 
subsite distribution and incidence of colorectal cancer in new zealand , 1974-1983 . the purpose of this study was to examine changes in subsite distribution and incidence of colorectal cancer within different age groups . registration of colorectal cancer by the national cancer registry of new zealand approached 100 percent by 1974 . the present study was based on 15,395 individuals aged 25 years and over and registered for colorectal cancer between 1974 and 1983 . subsite distribution ( right colon , left colon , rectum ) for different age groups ( 25-49 , 50-69 , 70 + years ) was significantly skewed , with an excess of right colonic cancer in individuals aged 25-49 years and 70 + years . this right colonic excess was accompanied by a relative reduction in left colonic cancer . age adjusted incidence rates for the periods 1974-78 and 1979-83 were compared and stratified by age group and subsite . incidence rates increased in all subsites in individuals aged 50 + years . this was particularly evident for right sided cancer in the elderly of both sexes . there was a marked reduction in the incidence of left colonic cancer and rectal cancer in individuals under 50 years . in contrast , the incidence of right colonic cancer remained relatively stable in young individuals . time trend studies indicate that the skewed subsite distribution of large bowel cancer in different age groups may increase with time and is probably due to varying etiological factors acting on different cohorts . 
colorectal cancer : differences between community and geographically distant patients seen at an urban medical center . many studies in clinical oncology rely on hospital-derived patients . hospitals vary in the proportions of patients from the local catchment area vs. those from more distant places , of whom a larger proportion are presumably referrals . to study the differences between these two types of patients , we analyzed 1,245 colorectal cancer patients seen at a large urban medical center over a seven-year period . three hundred ninety-eight patients were from the local community ( 32 percent ) , 489 were from the extended community ( 39.3 percent ) , and 358 from more distant communities ( 28.8 percent ) . the patients from the local community tended to be older and from minority ethnic groups . in addition , the local community patients were more likely to have advanced disease at the time of presentation . the grade of the tumor and its site distribution within the large bowel were similar for the three groups . after adjusting for age , sex , race , and stage of disease , the survival was somewhat better for the distant community patients as compared with the local and extended communities ( p less than 0.02 ) . overall , in our patient population , the distant patients tended to have more favorable socioeconomic factors and less advanced disease , and these differences may account , in large part , for a better prognosis for these patients . particularly in large cooperative trials , studies may need to take into account the respective proportions of local community and geographically distant patients in analyzing and generalizing treatment outcomes . 
a case of cecocolic intussusception with complete invagination and intussusception of the appendix with villous adenoma . villous adenoma of the appendix is a rare neoplasm and intussusception of the appendix is a rare pathologic condition . a very rare case seen in a 35-year-old male with pain in the right lateral abdomen is reported . in this patient , the appendix along with the villous adenoma intussuscepted and invaginated into the cecal lumen , and presented as cecocolic intussusception . a polypoid lesion was diagnosed in the cecum by fiberoptic colonoscopy . unlike polypoid lesions at other sites in the large intestine , polypoid lesions of the cecum may accompany intussusception and invagination of the appendix . consequently , caution is required in performing endoscopic polypectomy in cases of polypoid lesions of the cecum . 
intra-abdominal desmoid tumors in familial polyposis coli : a case report of tumor regression by prednisolone therapy . a case of intra-abdominal desmoid tumors in familial polyposis coli ( fpc ) , which regressed and disappeared by prednisolone treatment , is reported . a 37-year-old japanese man with abdominal lumps was admitted to our hospital . he had had proctocolectomy two years before because of fpc with rectal cancer . at laparotomy , tumors were present in the abdominal wall , mesentery , and retroperitoneum . only a small part of the tumors was resected and diagnosed microscopically to be desmoid tumors . with prednisolone administration ( 20 to 5 mg/day ) subjective symptoms were ameliorated and desmoid tumors slowly regressed . bilateral hydronephrosis continued and resulted in " retroperitoneal fibrosis . " to our knowledge , this case is the first well-documented case of retroperitoneal fibrosis in a patient with fpc . the characteristics of the desmoid tumor in familial polyposis coli or in gardner 's syndrome and the methods for its management are discussed . 
polycystic ovary syndrome and bulimia . one hundred fifty-three patients classified as suffering from polycystic ovarian syndrome ( pcos ) and 109 patients who were suffering from a clear organic disorder or endocrinopathy received the bulimia investigation test ( edinburgh ) ( bite ) questionnaire for abnormal eating behaviors . patients with pcos showed a significant increase in their mean bite score for approximately a third had abnormal eating patterns , and 6 % have scores suggestive of clinical bulimia compared with only 1 % of women in the group with organic endocrinopathies . the work suggests that women with pcos should be screened for abnormal eating behaviors and raises the possibility that treatment by psychological means should be considered when abnormal eating behaviors are present . 
effect of baseline ovarian cysts on in vitro fertilization and gamete intrafallopian transfer cycles . the presence of ovarian cysts may compromise the success of in vitro fertilization ( ivf ) and gamete intrafallopian transfer ( gift ) . we prospectively studied 212 consecutive ovulation induction cycles in 120 patients for ivf and/or gift . a baseline cyst was defined as any intraovarian cystic structure greater than or equal to 12 mm noted on ultrasonography before superovulation . cycle outcomes were compared between patients with cysts ( n = 62 ) versus those with no cysts ( n = 150 ) . there were no differences in follicular or luteal phase lengths or amount of human menopausal gonadotropins used . peak estradiol ( e2 ) levels were significantly lower and cancellation rates significantly higher in the cyst group . for noncanceled cycles , there were no significant differences in peak e2 levels , the mean number of follicles greater than or equal to 12 mm , mature oocytes retrieved , or ova transferred for gift or embryos for ivf . the pregnancy rates overall and for noncanceled cycles were not significantly different . 
endoscopic ultrasonography in diagnosis of the extent of gallbladder carcinoma . endoscopic ultrasonography ( eus ) was performed preoperatively in 39 patients with gallbladder carcinoma . diagnosis of the anatomical extent of gallbladder carcinoma was compared with histologic analysis , and staging accuracy was evaluated according to the tnm classification . carcinoma considered to be at an early stage with no lymph node metastasis was correctly diagnosed in 87.5 % . differential diagnosis between early and advanced staged tumors was possible in 79.5 % . overall accuracy for depth of tumor invasion ( t ) was 76.9 % . limitations were due to many stones in the gallbladder and microinfiltration of carcinoma . assessment of regional lymph node metastasis ( n ) was at a sensitivity of 81.8 % and specificity of 92.9 % , for an overall accuracy of 89.7 % . we believe endoscopic ultrasonography is useful in the clinical staging of gallbladder carcinoma . 
endoscopic biopsy has limited accuracy in diagnosis of ampullary tumors . endoscopic biopsy specimens and surgically resected specimens in a collective series of 78 japanese patients with ampullary tumor were retrospectively reviewed to investigate the clinical implications of endoscopic biopsy . endoscopic biopsy specimens were classified into five groups based on the degree of epithelial atypia : group 1 ( no atypia ) , group 2 ( mild atypia ) , group 3 ( moderate atypia or adenoma ) , group 4 ( severe atypia or carcinoma in situ ) , and group 5 ( invasive carcinoma ) . final diagnosis of the 78 resected ampullary tumors was adenoma in five cases , carcinoma in 27 cases , and both adenoma and carcinoma in 46 cases . biopsy accuracy of carcinoma ( group 4 or 5 ) was 70 % ( 51 of 73 ) overall in 73 carcinoma cases . biopsy accuracy was 50 % ( 7 of 14 ) in the intramural protruding type , 64 % ( 21 of 33 ) in the exposed protruding type , and 88 % ( 23 of 26 ) in the ulcerating type . the diagnostic accuracy of adenoma ( group 3 ) was 80 % ( 4 of 5 ) in five cases of ampullary adenoma . in 18 ( 25 % ) of the 73 carcinoma cases , biopsy diagnosis was adenoma ( group 3 ) , whereas carcinoma was found in the deeper layers of surgically resected specimens . biopsy diagnosis of adenoma does not rule out the possibility of deeper carcinoma in ampullary tumors . 
evaluation of endosonography in tn staging of oesophageal cancer . strategies for the treatment of cancer of the oesophagus depend on the tumour stage at the time of diagnosis . resection , the only curative treatment , is confined to early tumour stages . tumours with local infiltration are usually unresectable and require palliative treatment . computed tomography has been widely used for preoperative staging but often fails to define this correctly . endoscopic ultrasound allows direct visualisation of the parietal wall and may be useful in staging gastrointestinal tumours . in a comparative prospective study , 52 patients with tumours of the oesophagus were investigated preoperatively both by endoscopic ultrasound and computed tomography to determine the stage of tumour infiltration and local lymph node involvement . thirty seven of these patients underwent operation , resection , or dissection and entered the study . the intraoperative findings or the histopathological assessment , or both , were taken as a reference . for all tn stages of oesophageal tumours , correct preoperative staging was accomplished by endoscopic ultrasound in 89 % for t stage and 69 % for n stage compared with 51 % and 51 % respectively by computed tomography ( highly significant using fisher 's exact test ) . this study shows that endoscopic ultrasound is useful in preoperative tn staging of tumours of the oesophagus . 
alcohol consumption in patients with colorectal adenomatous polyps . the risk of developing colorectal adenomatous polyps is probably increased by a variety of dietary and environmental factors . we found an association with current alcohol and cigarette consumption . the risk of polyps was increased three times in drinkers who did not smoke and two times in smokers who did not drink , with those who both drank and smoked having 12 times the risk of total abstainers . since colonic adenomatous polyps are generally regarded as premalignant lesions , these results lend support to the view that alcohol consumption may be an important factor in the pathogenesis of colorectal neoplasia , thus reinforcing the proposed polyp/carcinoma sequence in colorectal carcinogenesis . the role of smoking , however , is less clear particularly since the lack of association of colorectal carcinoma and smoking has been reported in many other studies . 
coeliac disease and malignancy of the duodenum : diagnosis by endoscopy , successful treatment of the malignancy , and response to a gluten free diet . a patient presented with subtotal villous atrophy and a malignant duodenal tumour of uncertain histogenesis . he was successfully treated by resection and chemotherapy and the small bowel mucosa recovered on a gluten free diet . the tumour was diagnosed at upper gastrointestinal endoscopy when barium studies and abdominal computed tomography were normal , thus making this one of the earliest coeliac malignancies diagnosed . 
spinal instability secondary to metastatic cancer . fifty-five patients with severe pain from spinal instability secondary to metastatic cancer were referred to hope hospital , none being judged to be in a terminal condition . one patient had too extensive disease for surgery so 54 were treated by 55 spinal stabilisations ; 49 obtained complete relief of pain and two had partial relief . there were three failures . twenty-eight of the patients had clinical evidence of spinal cord or cauda equina compression and were decompressed at the time of stabilisation . of these , 20 had major recovery of neurological function . patients with pre-operative evidence of extradural tumour had ' prophylactic ' decompression at the time of stabilisation ; none of these patients later developed signs of cord or cauda equina compression . the results suggest that alleviation of pain and restoration of mobility are best achieved by segmental spinal stabilisation ; a few patients require a combined anterior and posterior stabilisation . postoperative radiotherapy should be given whenever possible , and the causative tumour should be treated by endocrine or chemotherapy , as indicated . 
intraosseous lipomatosis . a case report . we report a case of systemic intraosseous lipomatosis involving the proximal femur , both ends of the tibia , and the tarsal and metatarsal bones . the lesions progressed during a five-year follow-up with a pathological fracture of the tibial plateau . ct scans were characteristic and helpful in diagnosis but mr imaging added little information . intraosseous lipomatosis is a hamartomatous malformation due to hyperplasia of adipose tissue , and is fundamentally different from solitary benign intraosseous lipoma . management involves reconstruction of any pathological fracture . large progressive lesions should be treated by curettage and grafting in an attempt to prevent such fractures . 
bone lesions secondary to benign phaeochromocytoma . four cases in childhood . metaphyseal sclerotic bone changes associated with benign phaeochromocytoma are very rare in childhood . we report four cases , in each of which the radiographic changes returned to normal after removal of the tumour . 
chondrosarcoma of the soft tissues . two different sub-groups . chondrosarcomas arising from soft tissues are rare . two different varieties are described , myxoid and mesenchymal . we have collected nine cases of the tumour , five myxoid and four mesenchymal , from a review of 513 cases of chondrosarcoma seen between 1904 and 1988 . we report the principal clinical , radiographical and histological differences between the two varieties and discuss their surgical treatment and prognosis . 
determination of plasma calcitonin gene-related peptide concentrations by a new immunochemiluminometric assay in normal persons and patients with medullary thyroid carcinoma and other neuroendocrine tumors . there is doubt about concentrations of circulating calcitonin gene-related peptide ( cgrp ) and the value of plasma cgrp measurements in the detection and follow-up of medullary thyroid carcinoma ( mtc ) . thus , we developed an immunochemiluminometric sandwich assay for cgrp using antibodies purified from a polyclonal antiserum against human cgrp . the assay was sensitive ( limit of detection , 0.4 pmol/l ; multiply by 3.7892 to derive nanograms per l ) and highly specific [ no cross-reaction with human calcitonin ( ct ) ] . normal plasma cgrp values ranged from less than 0.4 to 4.5 pmol/l ( median , 0.8 ; n = 31 ) , with 61 % having detectable levels . values in samples from patients with mtc were elevated : unoperated patients ( n = 10 ) , 4.7-137 pmol/l ( median , 7.1 ) ; and operated patients with gross persistent or recurrent tumor ( n = 14 ) , 4.7-171 pmol/l ( median , 23.2 ) . in contrast , cgrp values were normal in 78 % of nine postoperative patients with elevated ct , but no detectable tumor ( range , less than 0.4 to 6.3 pmol/l ; median , 1.6 ) . cgrp levels increased after pentagastrin injection in mtc patients , but less than did ct values . cultured mtc cells in vitro secreted large amounts of cgrp , and rat nerve root ganglia , human osteoblasts , and microvessel endothelial cells secreted lesser amounts . we conclude that cgrp circulates in normal plasma , but at very low levels . plasma cgrp concentrations are frequently high in patients with mtc , but primarily in those with gross tumor or metastases . plasma ct assay is the preferable test for mtc , but cgrp assay deserves prospective study for a possible role in predicting gross metastasis . 
use of m - [ 131i ] iodobenzylguanidine in the treatment of malignant pheochromocytoma . the efficacy and safety of m - [ 131i ] iodobenzylguanidine ( [ 131i ] mibg ) were assessed in 15 patients with malignant pheochromocytomas in a nonrandomized , single arm trial , in which patients were treated with [ 131i ] mibg ( sa , 740 megabequerel/mg ) every 3 months . seven of these patients had bone and soft tissue metastases , 4 had only soft metastases , and 4 had only bone metastases . the follow-up period ranged from 6-54 months ; the number of doses ranged from 2-11 , with 2.9 ( 78.4 mci ) to 9.25 gigabequerel ( gbq ) ( 250 mci ) / administration and a cumulative activity from 11.1-85 .90 gbq ( 300-2322 mci ) . the absorbed cumulative dose in tumors ranged from 12-155 gy . a beneficial effect of the treatment was observed in 9 patients ( 60 % ) . no complete remission of the disease was observed . seven patients died during the study , among whom 4 never responded to the treatment . seven had hormonal responses ( 4 complete and 3 partial ) , with a duration ranging from 5-48 months . among these patients , 4 relapsed , and 3 died within 3 months . five patients had partial tumoral responses mainly located in soft tissues and for a duration ranging from 29-54 months . all patients with a hormonal response had objective improvement in clinical status and blood pressure . there was no clear-cut relationship between the cumulative dose and the responses . the main side-effect observed in 1 patient with widespread bone metastases after three doses ( 12.9 gbq ) was a pancytopenia , which resolved after treatment was discontinued . this study suggests that repeated [ 131i ] mibg treatment could be effective in patients with advanced malignant pheochromocytoma . 
quantitation of g0 and g1 phase cells in primary carcinomas . antibody to m1 subunit of ribonucleotide reductase shows g1 phase restriction point block . human cancers have an apparent low growth fraction , the bulk of cells presumed to being out of cycle in a g0 quiescent state due to the inability in the past to distinguish g0 from g1 cells . the allosteric m1 subunit of ribonucleotide reductase ( m1-rr ) is constitutively expressed by cycling cells ( i.e. , g1 , s , g2-m ) . it is acquired during transition from g0 to g1 , lost during exit to g0 and thus distinguishes g0 from g1 cells . to estimate the proportion of g0 and g1 cells in primary human breast ( n = 5 ) and colorectal ( n = 12 ) adenocarcinomas , we used both analytical dna flow cytometry ( adfc ) and immunoperoxidase staining of sections with the monoclonal antibody to m1-rr ( mab m1-rr ) . adfc of fresh tumors revealed a low percentage of cells in the s phase ( 4.0 + / - 3.4 % ) but immunoperoxidase staining for m1-rr revealed an unexpectedly high proportion of positive cells ( 52.4 + / - 12.7 % ) in the g1 , s , g2-m phases indicating a high g1 content of primary human tumors . thus , human cancers are blocked in transition in g1 and are not predominantly in a g0 or quiescent differentiated state . this block was interpreted to mean that human cancers are responding to putative regulatory events at a restriction point in the g1 phase , such as relative growth factor deficiency , density inhibition , antiproliferative cytokines , or gene products . using flow cytometry for both dna and m1-rr content we found that human colon cancer cell lines arrest in the g1 but not g0 phase upon serum deprivation or density inhibition . similarly , human breast cancer cell lines are arrested in g1 but not g0 phase by medroxyprogesterone acetate ( mpa ) or tamoxifen exposure . these findings match our in situ observations , and support the concept of a restriction point block in primary human tumors . 
mutations in the k-ras oncogene induced by 1,2-dimethylhydrazine in preneoplastic and neoplastic rat colonic mucosa . these experiments were conducted to determine whether point mutations activating k-ras or h-ras oncogenes , induced by the procarcinogen 1,2-dimethylhydrazine ( dmh ) , were detectable in preneoplastic or neoplastic rat colonic mucosa . rats were injected weekly with diluent or dmh at 20 mg/kg body wt for 5 , 10 , 15 , or 25 wk , killed , and their colons dissected . dna was extracted from diluent-injected control animals , histologically normal colonic mucosa from carcinogen-treated animals , and from carcinomas . ras mutations were characterized by differential hybridization using allele-specific oligonucleotide probes to polymerase chain reaction -- amplified dna , and confirmed by dna sequencing . while no h-ras mutations were detectable in any group , k-ras ( g to a ) mutations were found in 66 % of dmh-induced colon carcinomas . these mutations were at the second nucleotide of codons 12 or 13 or the first nucleotide of codon 59 of the k-ras gene . the same type of k-ras mutations were observed in premalignant colonic mucosa from 2 out of 11 rats as early as 15 wk after beginning carcinogen injections when no dysplasia , adenomas , or carcinomas were histologically evident , suggesting that ras mutation may be an early event in colon carcinogenesis . 
insulin-like growth factor ii-mediated proliferation of human neuroblastoma . neuroblastoma is an embryonal tumor that typically arises in cells of the developing adrenal medulla . igf-ii mrna is expressed at high levels in the adrenal cortex before birth but it is not detectable until after birth in the adrenal medulla . neuroblastoma cell lines corresponding to early adrenal medullary precursors did not express igf-ii , although all three cell lines we tested were growth stimulated by igf-ii . cell lines corresponding to more mature adrenal medullary cells expressed igf-ii , and one , sk-n-as , grows by an igf-ii autocrine mechanism ( j. clin . invest . 84:829 -839 ) el-badry , romanus , helman , cooper , rechler , and israel . 1989 . an examination of human neuroblastoma tumor tissues for igf-ii gene expression using in situ hybridization histochemistry revealed that igf-ii is expressed by tumor cells in only 5 of 21 neuroblastomas , but is detectable in cells of nonmalignant tissues including adrenal cortical cells , stromal fibroblasts , and eosinophils in all 21 tumors . these findings indicate that igf-ii may function as an autocrine growth factor for some neuroblastomas and as a paracrine growth factor for others . they suggest that the growth regulatory pathways utilized by neuroblastoma mimic those used in the precursor cell type from which individual tumors arise . 
recombinative events of the t cell antigen receptor delta gene in peripheral t cell lymphomas . recombinative events of the t cell antigen receptor ( tcr ) delta-chain gene were studied in 37 cases of peripheral t cell lymphoma ( ptcl ) and related to their clinical presentation and the expression of the alpha beta or gamma delta heterodimers as determined by immunostaining of frozen tissue samples . there were 22 cases of alpha beta , 5 cases of gamma delta , and 10 cases of silent tcr expressing neither the alpha beta nor gamma delta tcr . 5 different probes were used to examine the delta locus . the 22 cases of alpha beta ptcl displayed biallelic and monoallelic deletions ; a monoallelic v delta 1 j delta 1 rearrangement was observed in 1 case and a monoallelic germ line configuration in 7 cases . the 5 cases of gamma delta ptcl displayed biallelic rearrangements : the productive rearrangements could be ascribed to v delta 1j delta 1 joining in 3 cases and vj delta 1 joining in 2 cases according to the combined pattern of dna hybridization with the appropriate probes and of cell reactivity with the tcr delta-1 , delta tcs-1 , and anti-v delta 2 monoclonal antibodies . in the vj delta 1 joining , the rearranged v segments were located between v delta 1 and v delta 2 . interestingly , in the third group of 10 cases of silent ptcl , 5 cases were found to have a tcr gene configuration identical to that in the tcr alpha beta ptcl , as demonstrated by biallelic delta gene deletion . these 5 cases were cd3 positive . the 5 remaining cases showed a monoallelic delta gene rearrangement with a monoallelic germ line configuration in 4 and a monoallelic deletion in 1 . four of these cases were cd3 negative , which was consistent with an immature genotype the tcr commitent of which could not be ascertained . finally , tcr gamma delta ptcl consisted of a distinct clinical morphological and molecular entity whereas tcr alpha beta and silent ptcl had a similar presentation . 
patterns of epidermal growth factor receptors in basal and squamous cell carcinoma . the presence of immunoreactive epidermal growth factor receptors in human skin tumors was investigated using the indirect immunoperoxidase technique . sixteen basal cell carcinomas and 11 squamous cell carcinomas were evaluated . all of the specimens studied were receptor positive . in 70 % of the specimens there was prominent staining of the cell membranes . in 54 % of the nodular basal cell carcinoma specimens there was increased staining at the periphery of the tumor cell masses . 
basal cell carcinoma recurring after radiotherapy : a unique , difficult treatment subclass of recurrent basal cell carcinoma . twenty-seven basal cell carcinomas ( bccs ) recurring following radiation therapy alone or in addition to other treatment modalities were treated with mohs micrographic surgery ( mms ) from 1983 to 1989 . mean tumor size was 2.1 cm . of the tumors , 70.4 % arose in the mid-face region , 55.6 % had undergone multiple previous treatment modalities . the present recurrence rate is 7.4 % ( mean follow-up : 25 months ) . basal cell carcinoma recurring following radiotherapy deserves special subclassification among recurrent bcc . it is very difficult to eradicate , with high recurrence rates following standard surgical excision or further radiotherapy . tumors are usually large , aggressive , and invasive . most arise in the cosmetically crucial mid-face region , where extension into subcutaneous tissue planes is common . mohs surgery , with its inherent abilities to examine all margins , map tumor extension , and conserve tissue , is uniquely suited to treatment of these difficult tumors . 
skin ultrasound in dermatologic surgical planning . high-resolution ultrasonography was performed on 55 patients with palpable skin lesions , all submitted to surgical excision and to histologic diagnosis . in all the cases , the ultrasound picture was confirmed by the surgical appearance of the lesions . the sonographic structure was characteristic in the case of cysts and angiomas , lymphangiomas in particular . ultrasonography is considered a simple and reliable technique for the pre-operative evaluation of skin nodules , as it gives a clear picture of their size , depth , and outline . however , sonography can not substitute for the clinical dermatologic approach and the need for an histologic diagnosis . 
prospective follow-up for malignant melanoma in patients with atypical-mole ( dysplastic-nevus ) syndrome . a total of 357 white patients who had melanocytic nevi that fulfilled the clinical criteria for the " classic " atypical-mole ( dysplastic-nevus ) syndrome ( 100 or more melanocytic nevi ; one or more melanocytic nevi 8 mm or larger in diameter ; and , one or more melanocytic nevi with atypical features ) were followed for the development of cutaneous malignant melanomas . seventeen patients ( 4.8 % ) developed malignant melanomas during an average follow-up period of 49 months . one patient developed two malignant melanomas . eight of the malignant melanomas detected were in situ and ten were invasive melanomas ( less than 0.86 mm in breslow thickness ) , implying an excellent prognosis . the number of malignant melanomas detected in these patients exceeded significantly the number expected to occur in age - and sex-matched white controls . all groups were shown to have an increased risk for the development of malignant melanomas . total-body photographs were helpful in detecting changes in size , shape , and color that led to the diagnosis of malignant melanoma . these data support the concept that patients with this readily regionalized clinical presentation of classic atypical-mole syndrome are at an increased risk for malignant melanomas and , therefore , should be examined regularly . 
the medical necessity of evaluation and treatment of port-wine stains . new lasers and improved laser delivery systems have allowed for the safe and effective treatment of port-wine stains in patients of all ages . the satisfactory results obtained by laser treatment have increased the number of patients seeking consultation regarding their birthmarks . it is imperative that physicians recognize the various medical syndromes and problems associated with port-wine stains . a review of 415 patients with facial port-wine stains has revealed hypertrophy and/or nodularity in 65 % of patients by the fifth decade of life , which increases significantly the morbidity of these lesions . it is believed that laser treatment will minimize the medical and psychologic complications that result from the natural evolution of port-wine stains . 
retroviral transduction of protein kinase c-gamma into cytotoxic t lymphocyte clones leads to immortalization with retention of specific function . the molecular pathways that are responsible for delivering the proliferative signals from the cell surface to the nucleus in t lymphocytes are still unresolved , but recent data implicates protein kinase c ( pkc ) involvement in the tcr signaling pathway . to further address the role of pkc in t cell activation , the effects of high level expression of the pkc-gamma isoenzyme in murine ctl clones were examined . unlike the parental cells that required periodic ag stimulation for cell activation and growth , cells expressing a retrovirally transduced pkc-gamma gene propagated in culture independent of the need for ag stimulation , although maintaining identical functional specificity to the parental ctl . constitutive pkc-gamma expression may therefore mimic physiologic pkc activation , thereby abrogating the requirement for tcr-ag interaction in t cell activation . 
dexamethasone inhibits the induction of monocyte chemotactic-activating factor production by il-1 or tumor necrosis factor . recently purified and molecularly cloned monocyte chemotactic and activating factor ( mcaf ) may play a major role in recruiting and activating monocytes in the inflammatory process . we examined the effects of a potent anti-inflammatory agent , dexamethasone ( dxs ) , on the production of this factor . over a wide range of concentrations ( 10 ( -5 ) to 10 ( -8 ) m ) , dxs inhibited the production of mcaf at the mrna and protein level in a human fibrosarcoma cell line , which was stimulated with either il-1 or tnf-alpha . we examined the turn-over of synthesized mcaf mrna that showed dxs decreased the stability of mcaf mrna . furthermore , the addition of actinomycin d and cycloheximide abolished this effect of dxs , indicating that de novo mrna and protein synthesis were required for this process . in addition , a nuclear run-off analysis revealed that dxs also inhibited the transcription of il-1 - or tnf-activated mcaf genes . therefore , both the destabilization of mcaf mrna and the inhibition of transcription of the gene contribute to the decrease in the mcaf mrna steady state level by dxs . 
dna sequences 3 ' of the ig h chain cluster rearrange in mouse b cell lines . a mouse myeloma cell line mpc11 ( igg2b , kappa ) and variants derived from it have been used to study dna rearrangements that occur at the ig h chain locus . one variant , f5 .5 , has acquired both vh gene and c epsilon gene rearrangements . through genomic southern blot analysis initially directed to mapping the c epsilon gene rearrangement , we observed that the vh region rearrangement was linked , through an inversion event , to sequences that originate 3 ' of the ch cluster , i.e. , 3 ' of the c alpha gene . subsequent studies have shown that dna rearrangements within the region 3 ' of the c alpha gene are detected in several other mouse myeloma and hybridoma cell lines and are not associated with the expression of specific isotypes . 
examination of htlv-i integration in the skin lesions of various types of adult t-cell leukemia ( atl ) : independence of cutaneous-type atl confirmed by southern blot analysis . the various clinical features of adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma ( atl ) are frequently accompanied by skin eruptions . recently , a cutaneous type of atl has been proposed by clinical studies . we analyzed the viral integration of human t-cell leukemia virus-i ( htlv-i ) and monoclonal rearrangement of t-cell receptor ( tcr ) gene in blood lymphocytes and the cutaneous infiltrated cells of nine atl patients with various clinical features and skin eruptions . we classified them by the results of southern blot analysis and propose a cutaneous-type atl accordingly . in two of them , we could detect the monoclonal integration of htlv-i and t-cell monoclonality only in the skin but not in the peripheral lymphocytes . we also demonstrated the time course study in one patient . clinicians should be aware of the htlv-i positive cutaneous t cell lymphoma that can be named cutaneous-type atl . examination of viral integration and t-cell monoclonality in skin lesions is required to make an exact diagnosis of cutaneous atl . 
immunolocation of tnf-alpha/cachectin in human melanoma cells : studies on co-cultivated malignant melanoma . we have investigated the ability of metastatic cells to produce the macrophage cytokine , tnf-alpha/cachectin , as these cells have macrophage-like properties such as infiltration and migration . we looked for tnf-alpha/cachectin in three tumor cell lines derived from human malignant melanomas and six co-cultivated malignant melanomas derived , in vitro , from these three cell lines plus angioma fibroblasts . immunohistochemistry with an anti-tnf-alpha/cachectin monoclonal antibody showed that tnf-alpha/cachectin was produced by two of the three parent melanoma cell lines . all the tumor cells in both the co-cultivated malignant melanomas and their in vitro tumorous nodules produced tnf-alpha/cachectin , even those derived from the melanoma cell line , which originally did not . the results clearly show that tnf-alpha/cachectin can be produced by non-hematopoietic tumor cells . a co-cultivated tumor model prepared from other types of human tumor cell lines promises to provide a useful tool for exploring the relationship between tnf-alpha/cachectin and oncogenesis . 
immunohistochemical alterations in basement membrane components of squamous cell carcinoma . to investigate alterations in the basement membrane ( bm ) in squamous cell carcinoma ( scc ) , we investigated 20 tumors . four had the cytologic characteristics of bowen 's disease ( scc-bd ) and 16 did not have them ( scc-nb ) . tumors were studied immunohistochemically by double immunofluorescent staining by using mouse monoclonal antibodies to the core protein of heparan sulfate proteoglycan ( hspg ) and chondroitin 6-sulfate glycosaminoglycan ( ch6s ) as well as rabbit antiserum to laminin ( ln ) and type iv collagen ( c-4 ) . in well-differentiated and highly keratinized scc-nb , ln , c-4 , and hspg could be detected in the tumor nest bm and showed no loss of continuity , but they were largely lost in poorly differentiated and poorly keratinized scc-nb . this suggests that poorly differentiated scc-nb cause greater enzymatic degradation of bm components than well-differentiated scc-nb . ch6s was detected in parts of the bm of scc-bd , but it was absent in all scc-nb examined . it appears that scc-nb have lost the ability to synthesize ch6s , and that scc-bd degrade ch6s although they continue to produce it . thus , it appears that in scc the bm is qualitatively different from that of normal epidermis , and that scc-bd can be distinguished from scc-nb by the ch6s content of the bm . 
identification of a melanoma progression antigen as integrin vla-2 . the expression of the integrin receptors vla-1 , -2 , -3 , and -6 was studied in normal cultured melanocytes and in five melanoma cell lines . normal melanocytes synthesized vla-3 , but did not reveal detectable levels of vla-1 , -2 , and -6 . all melanoma cell lines , however , expressed vla-2 , -3 , and -6 . vla-1 was synthesized by two of five melanoma lines . in parallel , we had analyzed the expression of four previously characterized melanoma cell surface antigens . one of them ( antigen a. 1.43 ) , which is associated with tumor progression of human melanoma , revealed a striking similarity to vla-2 . in sequential immunoprecipitation experiments , we show that a. 1.43 is identical with the integrin vla-2 , a cell surface receptor for collagen , laminin , and fibronectin . 
mandibular involvement in oral cancer . it is difficult to predict the tumour invasion into the mandible by oral cancer pre-operatively , and consequently the decision to preserve or sacrifice the mandible is largely individualistic . the present study of 44 cases analyses the reliability of pre-operative parameters to assess mandibular involvement . clinical , radiological and scintigraphic features have been compared with the detailed histology of the bone . this study confirms the usefulness of superior marginal resections in lesions which are close to but not involving the mandible , as well as for superficial lesions which are actually seen to involve the mandible but their ct and bone scans are negative for tumour invasion . 
non-hodgkins lymphoma of the head and neck : experience in the grampian area . the records of 44 cases of non-hodgkins lymphoma ( nhl ) presenting to the ear , nose and throat department in the grampian area from 1980-1988 were examined in relation to site of occurrence , histology , age at presentation , clinical stage , treatment and survival . the median age was 67 years and there was a preponderance of high grade histology , especially in disease affecting the tonsil . most deaths occurred in the first year ; patients with high grade disease and those in stages three and four had a significantly poorer survival during the first year . the site of disease had no influence on survival . 
haemangiopericytoma of the temporal bone . haemangiopericytoma is an uncommon vascular tumour with a widespread distribution . although meningeal involvement is well recognized , only a few sporadic cases of temporal bone lesions have been documented , all with doubtful sites of origin . late presentation together with the restrictive anatomy of this region often precludes its effective removal and even minimal residual disease may progress rapidly . a series of three such patients are presented in order to discuss the natural history , histological features and treatment of this disease . 
forty years of neuroglycopenia : neuropsychiatry for the internist . the case of a 65-year-old patient with an insulin-secreting pancreatic tumour and a 40-year history of neuropsychiatric disease is reported . the physiopathology and clinical features of acute , subacute , and chronic neuroglycopenia in patients with endogenous insulin hypersecretion are discussed . 
reproducibility of image interpretation in immunoscintigraphy performed with indium-111 - and iodine-131-labeled oc125 f ( ab ' ) 2 antibody injected into the same patients . an important criterion for the clinical use of a new imaging technique is the correct reproducibility of interpretation . forty-six paired immunoscintigraphic examinations were performed on 43 patients with suspected ovarian carcinoma recurrence using f ( ab ' ) 2 fragments of oc125 antibody labeled first with indium-111 and then with iodine-131 . planar scintigraphy ( ps ) and emission computed tomography ( ect ) images were interpreted blindly and separately by three observers , and reproducibility was evaluated by a kappa concordance index . intra - and interobserver reproducibility were generally satisfactory ( kappa values of 0.6 and 0.7 , respectively ) . binomial analysis of kappa values for ect showed the superiority of indium-111 for intraobserver ( p = 0.035 ) and interobserver ( p = 0.0039 ) study . however , for ps there was no significant difference in reproducibility with the two radionuclides . 
relationship of uptake of technetium-99m ( sn ) - n-pyridoxyl-5-methyltryptophan by hepatocellular carcinoma to prognosis the relationship of technetium-99m ( sn ) - n-pyridoxyl-5-methyltryptophan ( 99mtc-pmt ) uptake by hepatic tumors to survival was studied in 162 cases of hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) . the median survival of 82 patients in whom hepatic tumors showed increased uptake in delayed 99mtc-pmt imaging was 1013 days , which was significantly longer than the survival time of 398.5 days of 80 patients in whom hepatic tumors did not show increased uptake of radioactivity ( p less than 0.002 ) . the relationship between the ability of hepatic tumors to take up 99mtc-pmt and survival was also analyzed in patients with hcc showing filling defects in 99mtc-colloid liver images and , in relation to the therapy , serum values of bilirubin and alpha-fetoprotein . results indicated that the degree of 99mtc-pmt uptake by hepatic tumors is closely correlated with the prognosis of patients with hcc . 
comparison of 1073 mbq and 3700 mbq iodine-131 in postoperative ablation of residual thyroid tissue in patients with differentiated thyroid cancer . in a randomized prospective study , we compared the efficacy of low dose ( 1073 mbq ) and high dose ( 3700 mbq ) iodine-131 administration in postoperative ablation of residual functioning thyroid tissue in 63 patients with differentiated thyroid cancer . we were unable to demonstrate any difference between the low - and the high-dose of radioactive iodine in scintigraphic ablation of remnant tissue . in 81 % ( 21/26 ) of the patients , 1073 mbq ablated after the first dose , 77 % ( 21/26 + 3/5 = 24/31 ) after the first plus second dose , and 69 % ( 24/31 + 0/4 = 24/35 ) after the first , second , and third dose . radioiodine ( 3700 mbq ) ablated in 84 % , 73 % , and 69 % of the patients after respectively 1. , 1 . plus 2. , and 1 . plus 2 . plus 3 . dose . forty percent of the patients ablated with the low dose and 44 % ablated with the high dose had elevated thyroglobulin levels at the time of complete scintigraphic ablation . in conclusion , we did not find any difference between 3700 mbq and 1073 mbq iodine-131 as regard to number of doses needed for complete scintigraphic ablation of residual functioning thyroid tissue . 
variables influencing tumor uptake of anti-melanoma monoclonal antibodies radioiodinated using para-iodobenzoyl ( pib ) conjugate tumor uptake was examined with respect to antigen expression , time-dependent biodistribution , dose of mab injected , tumor size , and tumor site ( i.e. , subcutaneous versus lung or liver metastases ) . nr-ml-05 , 96.5 , and p94 showed significantly greater uptake in subcutaneous tumors than cl207 and 5.1 ( p less than 0.05 ) . nr-ml-05 had a significantly higher tumor uptake at 24 hr ( 11.9 + / - 0.51 ) than at 72 hr ( 4.0 + / - 0.37 ) or 144 hr ( 2.7 + / - 0.84 ) after injection ( p less than 0.001 ) . the other four mabs had similar tumor distribution at all three time points . the tumor uptake of four mabs ( 96.5 , p94 , cl207 . 5.1 ) differed with respect to in vitro versus in vivo binding to tumor , tumor type , dose of mab , and tumor site ( subcutaneous versus metastases ) . in contrast , nr-ml-05 demonstrated consistent uptake in tumors independent of the above parameters . these data suggest that certain host parameters can influence in vivo tumor targeting depending on characteristics of each mab studied . 
extracranial metastatic glioblastoma : appearance on thallium-201-chloride / technetium-99m-hmpao spect images . sequential thallium-201-chloride and technetium-99m-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime single-photon emission computed tomography ( spect ) images were obtained in a patient with extracranial metastatic glioblastoma multiforme . thallium-201 uptake was high ( three times the scalp background ) in all pathologically confirmed extracranial metastases and moderate ( 1.6 times scalp background ) intracranially , where most biopsy specimens showed gliosis with scattered atypical astrocytes . technetium-99m-hmpao uptake was decreased intracranially in the right frontal and parietal lobes which had been irradiated . it was also decreased in one well-encapsulated scalp lesion and high in another scalp mass with less defined borders . possible mechanisms of tumor uptake of these agents are reviewed . 
technetium-99m-methylene diphosphonate ( mdp ) uptake in a sympathetic effusion : an index of malignancy and a review of the literature . we report a patient with a sympathetic pleural effusion secondary to t-cell lymphoma that accumulated the bone imaging agent , technetium-99m-methylene diphosphonate ( 99mtc-mdp ) . this case is significant in that malignant cells were not present on three cytologic examinations of the pleural fluid or multiple pleural biopsies . we also present a review of the published literature on pleural effusions that accumulate bone tracers . we conclude that pleural effusions that accumulate 99mtc-mdp should be considered malignant or secondary to a malignancy and further work-up is essential even if the cytologic exam of the pleural fluid is unremarkable . 
htlv-i-associated leukemia/lymphoma in south florida . we report here 10 cases of adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma ( atl ) seen in south florida between february 1988 and july 1989 . all were seropositive for human t-lymphotropic virus type i ( htlv-i ) and seronegative for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) . dna extracted from tumor biopsies/peripheral blood lymphocytes of nine patients was shown by the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) to contain htlv-i proviral dna . blot hybridization of dna extracted from seven patients with an htlv-i cdna probe revealed a monoclonal pattern of proviral integration consistent with a diagnosis of atl . eight of the 10 patients were women . six patients were from haiti , three from jamaica , and one from the bahamas . all patients had very aggressive non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . two patients presented with sinus and retro-orbital involvement ; another had gastric lymphoma that perforated . nine patients developed hypercalcemia . eight patients died within 1 year of diagnosis . two were lost to follow-up . during the course of this study , 66 new cases of non-hodgkin 's lymphoma were diagnosed at this hospital . ten of these cases were atl . the prevalence of htlv-i-related lymphoma in this sample was 15 % . since tissue from all patients was not available for htlv-i screening , however , it is possible that other cases of atl went undetected . we conclude from this initial survey that a retroviral etiology should be considered in patients from populations known to be at risk for htlv-i infection who present with non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . 
treatable abdominal pathologic conditions and unsuspected malignant neoplasms at autopsy in veterans who received mechanical ventilation . study objective : to determine , in medical patients who received mechanical ventilation , the frequency and types of major unexpected diagnoses at autopsy that , if known before death , would probably have led to improved survival ( class i errors ) or substantively changed management but not survival ( class iib errors ) . design : retrospective cohort study . setting : six medical intensive care units in a department of veterans affairs cooperative study . patients : one hundred seventy-two autopsied patients of the 401 veterans who received mechanical ventilation and died in the hospital . results : the class i error rate was 12 % . abdominal pathologic conditions -- abscesses , bowel perforations , or infarction -- were as frequent as pulmonary emboli as a cause of class i errors . while patients with abdominal pathologic conditions generally complained of abdominal pain , results of examination of the abdomen were considered unremarkable in most patients , and the symptom was not pursued . six percent of patients had extensive malignant neoplasms ( class iib errors ) . conclusions : atypical presentation of potentially treatable abdominal pathologic conditions is a common cause of class i errors in veterans who receive mechanical ventilation . conversely , several patients with unrecognized terminal conditions underwent intensive intervention . if the information gained at autopsy had been known before death , management would have probably changed substantively in 18 % of patients . 
mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the salivary glands : a reappraisal of the influence of tumor differentiation on prognosis . thirty-nine cases of mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the salivary glands were reviewed for a reappraisal of the influence of the grade of differentiation on the outcome of the disease . the age of the patients ranged between 7 and 84 years . fifteen patients were females and 24 males . the tumors were located at the parotid gland ( n = 30 ) , the submaxillary gland ( n = 1 ) , the soft palate ( n = 5 ) and the oral mucosa nos ( n = 3 ) . at presentation 4 tumors were intraglandular and 35 extraglandular ; three patients had lymph node metastases and one patient lung metastases . the grade of differentiation was assessed using the criteria of healey et al . twelve tumors were classified as grade i , 17 as grade ii , and 10 as grade iii . follow-up information was obtained with a duration of 5-144 months ( mean 44.7 months ) . six cases recurred locally and 5 developed metastases . five years cumulative survival was 100 % for grade i , 70.1 % for grade ii , and 47.2 % for grade iii . the results point to the usefulness of the assessment of the grade of differentiation as a guide to anticipate the outcome of the disease . 
comparison of characteristics of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma associated with head and neck cancer and those with gastric cancer . in ongoing reviews of 339 patients with surgically treated primary squamous cell carcinoma , there were 19 ( 5.6 % ) with concurrent gastric cancer and 11 ( 3.2 % ) with head and neck cancer . the incidences of intra-esophageal multiple occurrence of esophageal cancer are 27.3 % and 26.3 % in those with associated head and neck cancer and gastric cancer , respectively , and higher than 7.1 % in those without such a concurrent cancer . there was no difference in the clinicopathological characteristics of those with concurrent head and neck and gastric cancers , except for the higher incidence of metachronous occurrence in the former . these findings suggest that , in cases of esophageal cancer associated with concurrent head and neck cancer and gastric cancer , intraesophageal multiplicity of the esophageal carcinoma is frequent and that preoperative serial evaluations is most important to design treatment and estimate the prognosis . 
immune competent cells of regional lymph nodes in colorectal cancer patients : i. flow cytometric analysis of lymphocyte subpopulation . lymphocyte subpopulations of the regional lymph nodes in 20 colorectal cancer patients were measured by flow cytometry to analyze nodal lymphocytes phenotypically . eleven patients with cholelithiasis were used as controls . comparison of lymphocyte subpopulations between colorectal cancer and control groups revealed a significantly increased rate of leu-12 + cells in the cancer patients . furthermore , a significant increase of leu-3a + leu-8 - cells and a significant decrease of leu-3a + leu-8 + cells were also found in the paracolic nodes of the cancer patients . however , leu-2a + leu-15 - cells were not different between the both groups . meanwhile , in the cancer patients , the rates of leu-4 + , leu-3a + , and leu-3a + leu-8 - cells were higher in the paracolic nodes compared with the intermediate nodes . additional investigation of the correlation between clinicopathological features of the tumors and lymphocyte subpopulations , showed that leu-12 + cells were related to the tumor size and leu-2a + 15 - cells related to the histopathological type . the foregoing results indicate that the rates of both b and helper t cells , which may specifically participate in the antibody production , increase in the regional lymph nodes of colorectal cancer patients . 
activation and in vitro expansion of tumor-reactive t lymphocytes from lymph nodes draining human primary breast cancers . the feasibility of in vitro activation of lymphocytes from the draining lymph nodes ( dln ) of breast cancer patients was examined . lymphocytes isolated from 48 dln from 12 patients were examined for their proliferative responses to ril-2 , autologous tumor cells , or ril-2 plus tumor cells . three general patterns of cellular responses were observed . cells from some dln ( 17 % ) were unresponsive to any stimuli . lymphocytes from 52 % of the dln responded moderately to ril-2 alone . the combination of ril-2 and tumor antigen had a synergistic effect on the proliferation of cells from 31 % of the dln assayed . phorbol dibutyrate and ionomycin plus ril-2 stimulated expansion of dln lymphocytes by up to 850-fold after 35 days . these expanded cell populations , as well as those stimulated with antigen plus ril-2 , were predominantly cd3 + and cd16 - cells , varying in proportions of cd4 + and cd8 + subsets . both populations were cytotoxic against autologous tumor , mcf-7 , and k562 target cells . 
neuroendocrine carcinoid tumours of the breast : a variant of carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation . carcinoid tumours most frequently develop in the gastrointestinal tract but have been described in many organs of the body . in 1977 the first cases were reported in the mamma , followed by descriptions of argyrophilic carcinoid-like , neuroendocrine mammary tumours by many investigators who performed immunohistochemical and ultrastructural examinations . the existence of true carcinoids in the mamma is still a controversial issue . eight mammary neoplasms with monomorphous cytonuclear features , five of the small cell carcinoid-like variety and three composed of larger cells , were examined by immunohistochemical and ultrastructural examination . we believe this kind of tumours are ductal or lobular carcinomas with focal or more extensive neuroendocrine features and are the result of a dual differentiation of neoplastic precursor stem cells along epithelial and endocrine lines . consequently , we consider that treatment of such cases should not be different from that of the ordinary type of mammary carcinomas . 
characterization and histopathological correlation of cytosol proteins of benign and malignant breast tumors . significant differences in cytosol protein level exist between normal/benign and cancerous breast tissues . there is a positive correlation between the cytosol protein level and histological grade of carcinoma . well-differentiated carcinoma have a lower value of cytosol protein than poorly differentiated carcinoma . in slab gel electrophoregrams , the total numbers of bands are almost identical in normal , benign , and malignant conditions . in addition , 37 kd protein band is consistently present in malignant cases and always absent in normal or benign cases . more extensive biophysical examination of this band may provide further insight into the protein alterations in cancer cells at the molecular level . 
surgical resection of a solitary liver metastasis in a 46-year-old patient with a malignant thymoma . clinical history , surgical treatment , and pathologic findings of a solitary liver metastasis of a malignant thymoma in a 46-year-old female are reported . an extensive literature review has revealed no record of surgical resection of liver metastasis in a patient with invasive thymoma . 
lactation following conservation surgery and radiotherapy for breast cancer . a 38-year-old woman with early stage invasive breast cancer was treated with wide excision of the tumor , axillary lymph node dissection , and breast irradiation . three years later , she gave birth to a normal baby . she attempted breast feeding and had full lactation from the untreated breast . the irradiated breast underwent only minor changes during pregnancy and postpartum but produced small amounts of colostrum and milk for 2 weeks postpartum . there are only a few reports of lactation after breast irradiation . these cases are reviewed , and possible factors affecting breast function after radiotherapy are discussed . because of scant information available regarding its safety for the infant , nursing from the irradiated breast is not recommended . 
subrenal capsule assay as a chemosensitivity test for primary esophageal squamous cell carcinoma . the efficiency of the subrenal capsule assay ( srca ) was studied with fresh tissue of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma . the day-to-day changes in 10 carcinoma cases were evaluated for 9 days . the cancer cells continued to proliferate from the 3rd to the 7th day after the implantation and then decreased . the host reaction was recognized histologically from the 3rd or 4th day to the 9th day . however , the immune reaction did not significantly influence the evaluation of srca until the 7th day . the immunohistochemical staining with anti-bromodeoxyuridine monoclonal antibody revealed the existence of cancer cells at the dna synthesizing stage ( s stage ) in the graft until the 7th day . in chemosensitivity test by srca , 21 patients were studied , and all were evaluable . 5-fu administration produced a response in 8/21 cases ( 38.1 % ) , vds in 8/21 ( 38.1 % ) , and cddp in 3/21 ( 14.3 % ) . used in combination , cddp + vds was effective in 7/18 cases ( 38.9 % ) and cddp + blm in 6/18 cases ( 33.3 % ) . 
expression of hla-dr and secretory component antigens and lymphocyte infiltration in human gastric nonmalignant and malignant tissues : an immunohistochemical study . the relation between hla-dr and secretory component ( sc ) expression and the degree of lymphocyte infiltration was immunohistochemically examined in human gastric mucosa with or without intestinal metaplasia and gastric carcinoma tissues . gastric mucosa without obvious inflammation showed neither expression of hla-dr or sc nor remarkable lymphoid infiltration . in contrast , gastric mucosa with chronic inflammation , tissues with incomplete type of intestinal metaplasia , and carcinoma demonstrated both hla-dr and sc in almost the same area and also prominent lymphoid infiltration in the surrounding stroma . this simultaneous expression of hla-dr and sc was not observed in complete type of intestinal metaplasia . the results indicate a close relationship between expression of hla-dr and sc and the presence of lymphocyte infiltration in gastric mucosa , areas of incomplete type of intestinal metaplasia and in gastric carcinomas . 
clinical management of gastric cancer and concomitant esophagogastric varices . we report the late results of treatment of 13 consecutive patients with gastric cancer and concomitant esophagogastric varices . of seven good-risk patients classified as child 's class a or b , gastrectomy together with selective shunt operation was performed in two , total gastrectomy with splenectomy in three , and distal partial gastrectomy with paraesophageal devascularization without splenectomy in one . the remaining patient with early gastric cancer underwent distal partial gastrectomy following repeated endoscopic injection sclerotherapy ( eis ) for treatment of the esophageal varices . although the majority of patients who underwent surgical repair of varices ( i.e. , shunt , splenectomy , or devascularization ) died , total gastrectomy with splenectomy was the only procedure that led to control of the esophageal varices . since partial gastrectomy combined with eis limits the morbidity and mortality of an extensive resection and at the same time controls esophageal variceal bleeding , it is probably the procedure of choice for patients with a carcinoma in the lower two-thirds of the stomach . concerning non-surgical cases , two patients were effectively treated using laser endoscopy and eis , without the occurrence of variceal bleeding . the remaining four patients , given chemotherapy or irradiation for treatment of gastric carcinoma , died within 4 months with variceal bleeding or liver failure . for the poor-risk patients with evidence of severe liver dysfunction , laser treatment and eis would be the treatment of choice . 
squamous carcinoma of the distal esophagus : a survival study . a survival study for squamous carcinomas of the distal esophagus treated by the southern california permanente medical group in the interval of 1954 to 1988 was undertaken . we found radiation therapy and surgery equally efficacious in terms of cure for patients without distant disease and performance status sufficient to tolerate treatment . we did not find survival benefit for patients treated with palliative surgery , and plan less invasive endoscopic means along with chemotherapy and radiation for palliation , reserving surgery for special circumstances . 
lymphoscintigraphy with 123i-labelled epidermal growth factor we have used 123i-labelled epidermal growth factor ( egf ) scans to study 14 patients with advanced cervical cancer . abnormal lymph node imaging was seen most clearly 6-8 h after the injection and revealed abnormal uptake by pelvic lymph nodes in 11 patients . 4 of these 11 had abnormal computerised tomographic and ultrasound scans ; in the other 7 conventional radiology did not confirm the presence of disease . 
comparison of continuous subcutaneous and intravenous hydromorphone infusions for management of cancer pain . to compare the safety and efficacy of subcutaneous and intravenous infusion of opioid analgesics , a randomised , double-blind , crossover trial was carried out in inpatients . 15 patients with severe cancer pain received two 48 h infusions of hydromorphone -- one subcutaneously and one intravenously in randomly allocated order . the study was made double-blind by the use of two infusion pumps throughout ; during the active subcutaneous infusion the intravenous pump delivered saline and vice versa . serial measurements of pain intensity , pain relief , mood , and sedation by means of visual analogue scales showed no clinically or statistically significant difference between the two infusion routes . side-effects were slight , and the mean number of morphine injections for breakthrough pain did not differ significantly between the routes ( 4.8 [ sd 4.5 ] for intravenous vs 5.3 [ 5.6 ] for subcutaneous ) . plasma hydromorphone concentrations measured at 24 h and 48 h of infusion showed stable steady-state pharmacokinetics ; the mean bioavailability from subcutaneous infusion was 78 % of that with intravenous infusion . because of the simplicity , technical advantages , and cost-effectiveness of continuous subcutaneous opioid infusion into the chest wall or trunk , intravenous opioid infusion for the management of severe cancer pain should be abandoned . 
imaging modalities in recurrent head and neck tumors . patients with recurrent neoplasms of the head and neck present perplexing management problems , and accurate preoperative assessment of their disease is crucial . thirty-eight patients with suspected recurrent neoplasms comprise this study : 30 had computed tomography scans , 4 had magnetic resonance images , and 4 patients underwent both computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging to assess the anatomical extent of pathology in 34 malignant and 4 benign tumors . contrast enhancement was essential for detecting disease on computed tomography scan . differentiation of recurrent tumor was more difficult when the patient had undergone radiation . magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated superior visibility in recurrent parotid and paranasal sinus neoplasm , but was less helpful in laryngeal and pharyngeal recurrences . computed tomography demonstration of a mass with infiltration of normal fat or tissue planes or lymphadenopathy correlated highly with recurrent disease . imaging techniques and fine points for determining recurrent neoplasms are presented . 
management decisions in laryngeal carcinoma in situ . twenty-one patients with laryngeal carcinoma in situ ( n = 12 ) or carcinoma in situ with microinvasion ( n = 9 ) were treated with laser mucosal dissection of the vocal cords and/or superficial laser cordectomy . the normal architecture of the vocal cords was preserved because the depth of vaporization was usually superficial in these early cases . five patients had recurrence , new tumor , or persistence of abnormal tissue that required additional laser surgical treatments . with a follow-up range of 6 months to 4 years , all patients currently are free of laryngeal abnormality , and no patient has needed open laryngeal surgery or radiation therapy . transoral endoscopic laser resection of laryngeal carcinoma in situ with or without microinvasion should be the treatment of choice for these early lesions . 
the use of bromodeoxyuridine cytokinetic studies as a prognostic indicator of cancer of the head and neck . traditional measures of head and neck tumors often fail to predict patient outcome or clinical course , particularly in nonadvanced disease . this problem of unpredictable tumor behavior has been one focus of cell proliferation studies . such studies , however , have been limited by difficult methodology . a newer method of quantifying tumor cell proliferation using bromodeoxyuridine is applicable for head and neck squamous cell carcinomas , as shown in the present study . the relative ease with which cell proliferation can be evaluated using this technique will allow large numbers of head and neck tumors to be studied , enabling correlations with tumor behavior to be made . 
epidermal nevus syndrome : a neurologic variant with hemimegalencephaly , gyral malformation , mental retardation , seizures , and facial hemihypertrophy . the epidermal nevus syndrome ( ens ) is a sporadic neurocutaneous disorder that consists of epidermal nevi and congenital anomalies involving the brain and other systems . from among over 60 patients with ens presenting with neurologic manifestations , we identified 17 who had hemimegalencephaly based on pathologic or radiologic studies . associated brain and neurologic abnormalities included gyral malformations in 12 of 12 , mental retardation in 13 of 14 , seizures in 16 of 17 ( including 9 with infantile spasms ) , and contralateral hemiparesis in 7 of 12 . all had ipsilateral epidermal nevi of the head , and several had ipsilateral facial hemihypertrophy . we concluded that these abnormalities comprise a recognizable neurologic variant of ens that we believe represents the full expression of primary brain involvement . several patients also had evidence of acquired brain lesions such as infarcts , atrophy , porencephaly , and calcifications , which are best explained by prior ischemia or hemorrhage . given repeated observations of blood vessel anomalies in ens patients , we hypothesize that underlying vascular dysplasia predisposes to these acquired lesions . the same cause may be invoked to explain the wide variety of neurologic symptoms reported in ens patients without hemimegalencephaly . while the cause of ens remains unknown , several observations suggest a somatic mutation . 
vascular abnormalities in epidermal nevus syndrome . we report a patient with epidermal nevus syndrome and right hemispheric infarct and review 3 others with neurologic manifestations best explained by ischemia or hemorrhage . each had a significant vascular abnormality such as occlusion or blood vessel dysplasia . none had hemimegalencephaly . we hypothesize that underlying vascular dysplasia is the cause of the neurologic lesions in these patients . 
percutaneous aspiration of brain tumor cysts via the ommaya reservoir system . we performed percutaneous aspiration of 21 brain tumor cysts in 20 patients using the ommaya reservoir system . ages ranged from 3 to 70 years , median 48 . sixteen were primary tumors ( 12 anaplastic glioma , 2 craniopharyngioma , 1 oligodendroglioma , 1 brainstem glioma ) and 4 were metastatic . fourteen had the ct appearance of a true cyst and 7 a pseudocyst . we placed 18 catheters through twist drill holes via ct stereotactic guidance and 3 through burr holes via ct guidance and effectively aspirated 3 to 50 ml cyst fluid from 1 to 18 times in each patient . postaspiration ct showed complete or significant reduction in cyst size in all patients in whom it was performed ( 18 after initial aspiration and 9 after subsequent aspirations ) . asymptomatic intracyst hemorrhage occurred in 2 patients after cyst wall biopsy and catheter placement . there have been no other complications at follow-up of 4 to 114 weeks . in our experience , tumor cyst aspiration by the ommaya reservoir system is as effective as percutaneous needle aspiration , but after catheter placement aspiration can be performed with minimal technical skill , avoiding repeated ct guidance required for needle aspiration of recurrent deep-seated cysts . 
the " numb cheek-limp lower lid " syndrome . a patient developed isolated numbness , 1st confined to the lateral nose and upper lip , but later involving the cheek , lower lip , upper gingiva , and the palate . this numbness was later associated with paresis of the muscles of the upper lip and angle of the mouth and with ipsilateral lower lid droop ( the " numb cheek-limp lower lid " syndrome ) . squamous cell carcinoma was discovered infiltrating the infraorbital nerve and distal branches of the facial nerve . cheek numbness associated with lower eyelid or upper lip weakness may herald a neoplasm affecting the infraorbital nerve and distal facial nerve branches . 
repetitive conservative surgery for recurrence of endometriosis . we evaluated the recovery of fertility and the relief of pain symptoms in a long-term follow-up of 42 women undergoing repetitive conservative surgery for recurrent endometriosis . the mean age of the patients was 31.1 + / - 4.3 years . at the time of their second operation the disease was stage iv in 14 women , stage iii in 25 , and stage i in three . after reoperation , the patients were followed for a mean period of 41.8 + / - 30.3 months . pain symptoms returned in eight women , dysmenorrhea and deep dyspareunia in eight , and pelvic pain in seven . eight of the 28 women ( 28.6 % ) who attempted to conceive achieved a total of 13 pregnancies . the corrected pregnancy rate was 35 % , and the cumulative rate at 27 months was 30.7 % . a third operation was necessary in six women after a mean period of 35 months . conservative surgery is an effective therapeutic option for infertile patients with recurrent endometriosis . 
endometrial carcinoma : the relevance of cervical cytology . in patients with endometrial carcinoma , preoperative identification of poor prognostic factors is helpful in planning therapy . extended surgical staging , including pelvic and periaortic node dissection , is indicated in patients with deep myometrial invasion or high-grade tumor , or when other risk factors for extrauterine spread are present . in this study , cervical cytology was reviewed in 86 patients with endometrial carcinoma , all of whom underwent surgical staging , to correlate the cytologic results with surgical and pathologic findings . cervical cytology was normal in 20 patients ( 23 % ) , whereas suspicious or malignant endometrial cells were present in 23 and 43 cases ( 27 and 50 % ) , respectively . suspicious or malignant cervical cytology was associated with deeper myometrial invasion ( p = .011 ) , higher postoperative tumor grade ( p = .006 ) , positive peritoneal washings ( p = .012 ) , and more advanced stage by international federation of gynecology and obstetrics criteria ( p = .024 ) . when compared with patients with normal cervical cytology , those who had malignant endometrial cells had over twice the risk of deep myometrial invasion ( 67 versus 30 % ) , twice the risk of grade 2 or 3 tumor ( 60 versus 30 % ) , and three times the risk of positive peritoneal washings ( 33 versus 10 % ) . seventy-four percent of patients with malignant cervical cytology were stage ic or more . in contrast , 70 % of patients with normal cervical cytology were stage ia or ib . patients with endometrial carcinoma who have malignant endometrial cells detected by cervical cytology are at increased risk of having a deeply invasive , high-grade , advanced-stage tumor , and therefore are more likely to require extended surgical staging . 
introduction to limb-salvage surgery for sarcomas . this article provides a history of limb-salvage surgery and definitions of terms used to describe aspects of the procedure . staging is also discussed . 
mobile knee reconstructions after resection of malignant tumors of the distal femur . limb-salvage surgery involving mobile knee reconstructions for malignant tumors about the distal femur is a desirable and achievable goal . with limb salvage , the survival rate does not decrease significantly , and the resulting function is superior to when an amputation plus a prosthesis are used . immediate and delayed morbidity is greater after limb-salvage surgery than after amputation . however , with thorough preoperative planning , use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy as indicated , and an experienced team of surgeons , limb-salvage surgery can provide a mobile knee with excellent function in the vast majority of cases for patients with malignant tumors of the distal femur . 
limb salvage in pediatric surgery . the use of the expandable prosthesis . limb sparing in growing children has proved to be very effective from an oncologic perspective , with good , long-term acceptance by the patients . as in the adult , when performed by experienced surgeons , limb sparing neither compromises the survival rate nor significantly increases the local recurrence rate , compared with cross-bone amputation . discussions include patient evaluation , surgical options , materials and methods , and results . 
resection and reconstruction for bone tumors in the proximal tibia . the proximal tibia is a common site for both benign and malignant tumors . this article reviews pertinent anatomy , clinical presentation , and staging methods for tumors of this area . discussion is given to various methods of resection and reconstruction with useful guidelines for procedure selection . the use of allografts for reconstruction is discussed in depth . 
endoprosthetic reconstruction after bone tumor resections of the proximal tibia . the advent of successful adjuvant chemotherapy and radiation therapy protocols for primary malignant tumors and the development of custom-designed metallic endoprostheses has now made possible a successful limb salvage procedure for malignancies of the proximal tibia . use of the transposed medial gastrocnemius flap , as proposed by dr. jean duboussett of paris , has been critical to the soft-tissue reconstruction that routinely permits an excellent active and passive range of motion for these patients . this article describes the operative techniques and technical considerations necessary for a successful proximal tibial endoprosthesis reconstruction . 
resection and reconstruction for soft-tissue sarcomas of the extremity . soft-tissue sarcomas are uncommon malignant tumors , and when a diagnosis is made early , the patient has up to an 80 % chance of surviving . in treating soft-tissue sarcomas , the goal of the surgeon is the prolongation of patient survival , the total eradication of local disease , and the minimization of functional deficits . in addition to treatment , this article discusses evaluation , histology , and staging . 
allograft reconstructions of the shoulder after bone tumor resections . large skeletal defects resulting from tumor resections about the shoulder create reconstructive challenges for the orthopedic surgeon . bone allografts offer several advantages compared with other reconstructive techniques , and functional outcomes are generally satisfactory . they may be used either as osteoarticular grafts , intercalated segments to create an arthrodesis , or in combination with standard proximal humerus metallic implants . patient expectations and specific oncologic factors must be considered when selecting the optimal method of reconstruction . 
resections and reconstructions for tumors of the distal radius . the primary objective in surgical management of the patient with a distal radius tumor is control of the disease . accurate staging and diagnostic methods applied preoperatively will predict not only the amount of resection necessary to obtain adequate tumor margins , but also the amount of remaining bone and soft tissues to assist reconstruction . with this information , a method of reconstruction can be chosen that provides the patient optimal long-term function and stability with predictable results and the fewest potential complications . 
pelvic resections : the rizzoli institute experience . materials , methods , and techniques of pelvic resections are discussed . results , including the complications of nerve damage , infection , and vascular , visceral , and reconstructive complications are tabulated . 
tumors of the shoulder girdle . technique of resection and description of a surgical classification . limb-sparing surgery is safe and reliable for most bone and soft-tissue tumors of the shoulder girdle . eighty to ninety percent of patients with high-grade sarcomas of the shoulder can be safely treated by the various surgical techniques described . attention must be paid to appropriate patient selection , preoperative staging , and planning . in addition , careful skeletal and muscular reconstruction of the surgical defect is necessary for a successful outcome . a new , universal , classification schemata ( types i-vi ) of shoulder girdle resections has been developed . this classification system is based on the bones resected , the status of the abductor mechanism , and the relationship to the glenohumeral joint . this system permits easy description and comparison of the various limb-sparing procedures performed . 
reconstructions after resections of tumors involving the proximal femur . advances in prosthesis design , the use of allografts , and a systematic approach to the staging and surgical treatment of musculoskeletal tumors have made limb salvage possible in the proximal femoral region . with the use of effective adjuvant therapy , limb salvage is now an option for the majority of patients presenting with locally invasive neoplasms in this area . the increase in functional outcome is sufficient to warrant serious consideration of limb salvage over the corresponding amputation . preoperative planning is discussed along with surgical techniques . 
inhibition of growth of experimental prostate cancer with sustained delivery systems ( microcapsules and microgranules ) of the luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone antagonist sb-75 . inhibitory effects of the sustained delivery systems ( microcapsules and microgranules ) of a potent antagonist of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone n-ac - [ 3 - ( 2-naphthyl ) - d-alanine1 , 4-chloro-d-phenylalanine2 , 3 - ( 3-pyridyl ) - d-alanine3 , d-citrulline6 , d-alanine10 ] lh-rh ( sb-75 ) on the growth of experimental prostate cancers were investigated . in the first experiment , three doses of a microcapsule preparation releasing 23.8 , 47.6 , and 71.4 micrograms of antagonist sb-75 per day were compared with microcapsules of agonist [ d-trp6 ] lh-rh liberating 25 micrograms/day in rats bearing dunning r3327h transplantable prostate carcinoma . during 8 weeks of treatment , tumor growth was decreased by [ d-trp6 ] lh-rh and all three doses of sb-75 as compared to untreated controls . the highest dose of sb-75 ( 71.4 micrograms/day ) caused a greater inhibition of prostate cancer growth than [ d-trp6 ] lh-rh as based on measurement of tumor volume and percentage change in tumor volume . doses of 23.8 and 47.6 micrograms of sb-75 per day induced a partial and submaximal decrease , respectively , in tumor weight and volume . tumor doubling time was the longest ( 50 days ) with the high dose of sb-75 vs. 15 days for controls . the body weights were unchanged . the weights of testes , seminal vesicles , and ventral prostate were greatly reduced in all three groups that received sb-75 , and testosterone levels were decreased to nondetectable values in the case of the two higher doses of sb-75 . lh levels were also diminished . similar results were obtained in the second experiment , in which the animals were treated for a period of 8 weeks with microgranules of sb-75 . therapy with microgranules of sb-75 significantly decreased tumor growth as measured by the final tumor volume , the percentage change from the initial tumor volume , and the reduction in tumor weight . the results indicate that antagonist sb-75 , released from sustained delivery systems , can produce a state of chemical castration and effectively inhibit the growth of experimental prostate cancers . the efficacy of the antagonist sb-75 in inhibiting androgen-dependent dunning prostatic carcinoma and the absence of side effects suggest its possible usefulness for the treatment of hormone-sensitive tumors . 
molecular localization of the t ( 11 ; 22 ) ( q24 ; q12 ) translocation of ewing sarcoma by chromosomal in situ suppression hybridization . chromosome translocations are associated with a variety of human leukemias , lymphomas , and solid tumors . to localize molecular markers flanking the t ( 11 ; 22 ) ( q24 ; q12 ) breakpoint that occurs in virtually all cases of ewing sarcoma and peripheral neuroepithelioma , high-resolution chromosomal in situ suppression hybridization was carried out using a panel of cosmid clones localized and ordered on chromosome 11q . the location of the ewing sarcoma translocation breakpoint was determined relative to the nearest two cosmid markers on 11q , clones 23.2 and 5.8 , through the analysis of metaphase chromosome hybridization . by in situ hybridization to interphase nuclei , the approximate physical separation of these two markers was determined . in both ewing sarcoma and peripheral neuroepithelioma , cosmid clone 5.8 is translocated from chromosome 11q24 to the derivative chromosome 22 and a portion of chromosome 22q12 carrying the leukemia inhibitory factor gene is translocated to the derivative chromosome 11 . the physical distance between the flanking cosmid markers on chromosome 11 was determined to be in the range of 1000 kilobases , and genomic analysis using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis showed no abnormalities over a region of 650 kilobases in the vicinity of the leukemia inhibitory factor gene on chromosome 22 . this approach localizes the ewing sarcoma breakpoint to a small region on chromosome 11q24 and provides a rapid and precise technique for the molecular characterization of chromosomal aberrations . 
mutational activation of the c-ha-ras gene in liver tumors of different rodent strains : correlation with susceptibility to hepatocarcinogenesis . the frequency and pattern of mutations at codon 61 of the c-ha-ras gene have been analyzed in 195 liver tumors and 132 precancerous liver lesions from various rodent strains with differing susceptibility to hepatocarcinogenesis . by using the polymerase chain reaction and allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization , c ---- a transversions at the first base and a ---- t transversions or a ---- g transitions at the second base of c-ha-ras codon 61 were detected in 20-60 % of spontaneous or carcinogen-induced liver tumors of the c3h/he , cba , cf1 , and b6c3f1 mouse strains , which are highly susceptible to hepatocarcinogenesis . no such mutations , however , could be found in any of the 31 liver tumors of the insensitive c57bl/6j and balb/c mouse strains or in any of the 35 liver tumors of the comparatively resistant wistar rat . further analyses of c-ha-ras codon 12 mutations in liver tumors from the three insensitive rodent strains also failed to give any positive results . in early precancerous liver lesions , c-ha-ras codon 61 mutations were found in 13-14 % of lesions of the sensitive c3h/he and b6c3f1 mouse strains but not in any of the 34 lesions of the insensitive c57bl/6j mouse . taken together , our results indicate a close correlation between the mutational activation of the c-ha-ras gene in liver tumors of the different rodent strains and their susceptibility to hepatocarcinogenesis , whereby the mutations appear to provide a selective growth advantage , leading to a clonal expansion of the mutated liver cell population , only in livers of sensitive but not of insensitive strains . 
cdna cloning and sequencing of human fibrillarin , a conserved nucleolar protein recognized by autoimmune antisera . we have isolated a 1.1-kilobase cdna clone that encodes human fibrillarin by screening a hepatoma library in parallel with dna probes derived from the fibrillarin genes of saccharomyces cerevisiae ( nop1 ) and xenopus laevis . rna blot analysis indicates that the corresponding mrna is approximately 1300 nucleotides in length . human fibrillarin expressed in vitro migrates on sds gels as a 36-kda protein that is specifically immunoprecipitated by antisera from humans with scleroderma autoimmune disease . human fibrillarin contains an amino-terminal repetitive domain approximately 75-80 amino acids in length that is rich in glycine and arginine residues and is similar to amino-terminal domains in the yeast and xenopus fibrillarins . the occurrence of a putative rna-binding domain and an rnp consensus sequence within the protein is consistent with the association of fibrillarin with small nucleolar rnas . protein sequence alignments show that 67 % of amino acids from human fibrillarin are identical to those in yeast fibrillarin and that 81 % are identical to those in xenopus fibrillarin . this identity suggests the evolutionary conservation of an important function early in the pathway for ribosome biosynthesis . 
free radical-derived quinone methide mediates skin tumor promotion by butylated hydroxytoluene hydroperoxide : expanded role for electrophiles in multistage carcinogenesis . free radical derivatives of peroxides , hydroperoxides , and anthrones are thought to mediate tumor promotion by these compounds . further , the promoting activity of phorbol esters is attributed , in part , to their ability to stimulate the cellular generation of oxygen radicals . a hydroperoxide metabolite of butylated hydroxytoluene , 2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-hydroperoxyl-4-methyl-2 ,5 - cyclohexadienone ( bhtooh ) , has previously been shown to be a tumor promoter in mouse skin . bhtooh is extensively metabolized by murine keratinocytes to several radical species . the primary radical generated from bhtooh is a phenoxyl radical that can disproportionate to form butylated hydroxytoluene quinone methide , a reactive electrophile . since electrophilic species have not been previously postulated to mediate tumor promotion , the present study was undertaken to examine the role of this electrophile in the promoting activity of bhtooh . the biological activities of two chemical analogs of bhtooh , 4-trideuteromethyl-bhtooh and 4-tert-butyl-bhtooh , were compared with that of the parent compound . 4-trideuteromethyl-bhtooh and 4-tert-butyl-bhtooh have a reduced ability or inability , respectively , to form a quinone methide ; however , like the parent compound , they both generate a phenoxyl radical when incubated with keratinocyte cytosol . the potency of bhtooh , 4-trideuteromethyl-bhtooh , and 4-tert-butyl-bhtooh as inducers of ornithine decarboxylase , a marker of tumor promotion , was commensurate with their capacity for generating butylated hydroxytoluene quinone methide . these initial results were confirmed in a two-stage tumor promotion protocol in female sencar mice . together , these data indicate that a quinone methide is mediating tumor promotion by bhtooh , providing direct evidence that an electrophilic intermediate can elicit this stage of carcinogenesis . 
osteoblastoma of the spine . a review of 75 cases . clinical and radiologic features of 75 cases of osteoblastoma of the spine were reviewed . in addition to pain , which was the most frequent complaint , 18 patients demonstrated objective neurologic deficit , while scoliosis was observed in 17 patients . aspirin yielded pain relief in 13 patients . pathologic fracture was not encountered . the radiologic and histologic characteristics of osteoblastoma of the spine are indistinguishable from those arising in other sites . the typical lesion exhibited a well-defined , geographic margin with a sclerotic , frequently lobulated border . approximately one half of the cases were predominantly lucent , the remainder displaying varying degrees of matrix mineralization . distribution of the osteoblastomas through the spinal axis was as follows : cervical-29 , thoracic-16 , lumbar-17 , sacral-13 . other significant findings included posterior element involvement in 73 of 75 cases , and a striking male to female ratio of 2.5 to 1 . 
survival after groin dissection for malignant melanoma . groin dissection was performed in 158 patients with malignant melanoma ( superficial dissection , 76 patients ; radical dissection , 82 patients ) . of 63 patients with palpable nodes , 57 patients ( 90 % ) had histologic involvement . of 93 patients with nonpalpable nodes , 31 patients ( 33 % ) had histologically positive nodes . the 5-year survival rate for patients with histologically negative nodes ( n = 69 ) was 77 % ; the 5-year survival rate for patients with histologically positive nodes ( n = 89 ) was 43 % . the respective 5-year disease-free survival rates were 72 % and 34 % . of 57 patients with palpable , positive inguinal nodes , 21 patients ( 37 % ) had involvement of the deep nodes . of 31 patients with nonpalpable , histologic involvement of the inguinal nodes , six patients ( 19 % ) had or developed involvement of the deep nodes . one of two patients with uncertain clinical status of the nodes preoperatively had positive deep nodes . in prophylactic node dissection , frozen section of the inguinal group of the nodes does not provide a reliable method , because of sampling errors , in determining microscopic involvement of the nodes and in deciding whether a superficial or radical groin dissection is to be done . for patients with positive nodes the 5-year survival rate was 48 % when only the inguinal group was involved and was 28 % when both inguinal and deep nodes were involved ; the respective 5-year disease-free survival rates were 39 % and 20 % . survival after therapeutic groin dissection may partly depend on the thoroughness of the procedure . patients who have positive , deep nodes and who are undergoing an incontinuity dissection of the inguinal , iliac , and obturator nodes have an appreciable 5-year survival rate . 
the role of resection in the management of melanoma metastatic to the adrenal gland . melanoma metastatic to the adrenal gland diagnosed before death was exceedingly rare before the development of computed tomographic ( ct ) scanning . the records of 28 patients with melanoma metastatic to the adrenal gland seen since 1975 were reviewed . eighteen patients were men and 10 were women . twenty-three patients had unilateral disease . four patients were diagnosed only at autopsy , leaving 24 for analysis of treatment and survival . twenty-one patients had received specific active immunotherapy , four had received chemotherapy ( dacarbazine , lomustin , bleomycin , and vincristine ) , and three had received both before the diagnosis of their adrenal disease . adrenal metastases were diagnosed by ct scanning in 14 patients with symptoms , 10 ( 91 % ) of whom had pain . ten patients were diagnosed by ct before entry into a chemotherapy protocol . of eight patients who underwent resection of all known disease , five underwent unilateral adrenalectomy , two underwent unilateral adrenalectomy and bowel resection , and one underwent bilateral adrenalectomy . two patients underwent partial resection of large unilateral tumors . fourteen patients with adrenal metastases and disease elsewhere were initiated or continued with chemotherapy or were treated symptomatically . mean survival in the group that underwent resection for cure was 59 months ( 3 to 112 months ) , whereas survival in the group with unresectable tumors was 15 months ( 1.5 to 132 months ) . four of eight patients who underwent resection for cure lived more than 5 years after detection of adrenal metastasis , whereas in only one of 14 patients with unresectable tumors was the same true . patients with metastatic melanoma localized to one or both adrenal glands may benefit from early detection and surgical intervention . 
evaluation of preoperative computed tomography in gastric malignancy . ninety patients with gastric malignancy underwent computed tomography ( ct ) before surgery . the ct findings regarding neoplastic invasion of adjacent organs and metastasis or enlarged lymph nodes were compared with the findings at laparotomy ( 85 cases ) or autopsy ( 5 cases ) , thus permitting evaluation of the diagnostic accuracy of ct and its usefulness for predicting resectability . when present , neoplastic invasion of adjacent organs was overestimated or underestimated by ct in 21 cases . invasion of adjacent organs according to ct was false positive in 17 cases and false negative in 11 cases . when liver metastasis or enlarged regional or distant lymph nodes were present , ct overestimated or underestimated their extent in 17 cases , and the diagnosis was false positive in one case and false negative in 33 cases . the positive and negative predictive values of ct concerning resectability of the tumor were 81 % and 64 % , respectively . routine preoperative ct in gastric malignancy is concluded to be of limited value and surgical exploration , when feasible , remains the method of choice . 
total gastrectomy for gastric cancer in the elderly . of 1070 patients with gastric cancers , 292 patients underwent total gastrectomy during 13 years . sixty patients were more than 70 years of age and 232 were under 69 years . the incidence of well-differentiated carcinomas and poorly differentiated carcinomas was the same in the elderly patients , whereas the latter was dominant in the young patients . however , there was no significant difference between the two groups regarding location , size , macroscopic patterns , extent of lymph metastases , or stage classification . the rates of preoperative surgical risk factors were significantly different between the two groups ( p less than 0.01 ) : 90.0 % for the elderly and 34.9 % for the young patients . however , the rates of postoperative morbidity and mortality were 31.7 % and 3.3 % for the elderly and 24.1 % and 1.3 % for the young patients , respectively , with no significant difference . the 5 - and 10-year survival rates after curative total gastrectomy were 48.6 % and 23.2 % for the elderly compared with 49.4 % and 33.6 % for the young patients , respectively , with no significant difference . a 5-year survival rate after noncurative operation was 0 % for the elderly and 6.4 % for the young patients . these results indicate that , when performed for cure , total gastrectomy with systematic lymphadenectomy can provide good long-term results for elderly , as well as young , patients . 
a hepatoblastoma originating in the caudate lobe radically resected with the inferior vena cava . complete resection of a rare hepatoblastoma in the caudate lobe , involving the inferior vena cava ( ivc ) , is reported . after systemic chemotherapy , a 5-year-old child underwent exploratory laparotomy at another hospital , but resection was not attempted because the tumor in the caudate lobe had extensively invaded the retrohepatic ivc . however , because not only the lack of distant metastases but also the establishment of extrahepatic collaterals were confirmed by imaging , we thought it was possible to radically resect the tumor . we successfully performed an extended left hepatic lobectomy including total excision of the caudate lobe and the involved portion of the ivc . although we did not reconstruct the ivc , no clinical manifestations arising from caval congestion were seen . the serum alpha-fetoprotein value declined below the normal limit . our experience with this case has introduced a radical resectability for hepatic malignancy in the caudate lobe , even if it has extended into the ivc . 
hepatocellular carcinoma with tumor thrombus extending into the right atrium : report of a successful resection with the use of cardiopulmonary bypass . hepatocellular carcinoma with a tumor thrombus extending into the right atrium has been considered beyond the reach of resection . these patients usually die within a short period because of pulmonary embolism , heart failure , or cancer progression . the only treatment is hepatic resection with removal of the tumor thrombus . a 38-year-old woman underwent left lobectomy with removal of the tumor thrombus with the use of cardiopulmonary bypass . the patient had an uneventful course and is doing well 15 months after surgery , without signs of recurrence . we have proved that hepatic resection with removal of a tumor thrombus extending into the right atrium can be carried out successfully . the next problem is whether the lives of these patients can be prolonged by this operation . 
a new method for mapping hepatic subsegment : counterstaining identification technique . hepatic subsegmentectomy requires identification of the borders of tumor-bearing subsegment , usually achieved by injecting dye into the portal veins feeding the domain . we describe an alternative technique for performing systematic subsegmentectomy in patients with cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma , in whom hepatic arterial and portal venous embolizations were already performed as a preoperative adjuvant . under ultrasonic guidance , each of the neighboring portal units is sequentially stained , thus defining the avascular subsegment to be resected as the nonstaining area . this allows the subsegment to be totally resected . this counterstaining identification technique can be used for all subsegments undergoing complete embolization and for other situations in which the usual staining method is impossible because of the presence of arterioportal shunting or portal tumor thrombus . 
effects of hypothyroidism on bronchial reactivity in non-asthmatic subjects . the effect of hypothyroidism on non-specific bronchial reactivity was studied in 11 patients without pulmonary disease ( mean age 40 ( sd 13 ) years ) who had had a total thyroidectomy and radioiodine treatment for thyroid cancer 41 ( 36 ) months before the study . all patients when mildly hyperthyroid while having long term thyroxine replacement treatment and once when hypothyroid two weeks after stopping triiodothyronine for the purpose of screening for metastases . bronchial reactivity was assessed by measuring specific airways conductance ( sgaw ) after increasing doses of inhaled carbachol ( 45-1260 micrograms ) . the dose producing a 35 % decrease in sgaw ( pd35 ) was determined from the cumulative log dose-response curve by linear regression analysis . mean baseline sgaw values were similar when the patients were hypothyroid and when they were hyperthyroid ( 1.35 ( 0.36 ) and 1.41 ( 0.56 ) s-1 kpa-1 ) . the interstudy coefficients of variation of baseline sgaw were higher in the thyroid patients than in a euthyroid control group ( 14 % versus 8 % ) . geometric mean pd35 was lower when the patients were hypothyroid ( 97 micrograms ) than when they were mildly hyperthyroid ( 192 micrograms ) . it is concluded that acute hypothyroidism increases non-specific bronchial reactivity in nonasthmatic subjects . 
performance and prognosis in patients with lung cancer . the edinburgh lung cancer group . the edinburgh lung cancer group prospectively registered 651 new patients presenting with lung cancer during 1981 ; only 47 survived five years ( 7 % ) . the survival rate was highest in patients selected for surgery ( 35/116 , 30 % ) and in this group was related to cell type , stage of disease , and possibly to karnofsky performance score ( not statistically significant ) . by comparison with non-surgical patients these 116 patients undergoing surgery were highly selected in terms of age , favourable histological type , stage of disease , and performance score . forty-two of the 535 non-surgical patients were given radical radiotherapy alone and seven ( 17 % ) survived five years . the remaining 493 received palliative radiotherapy , chemotherapy ( alone or combined with radiotherapy ) , or symptomatic treatment alone ; only five ( 1 % ) survived five years . median survival was related to cell type ( adenocarcinoma 2.6 months , squamous cell carcinoma 6.2 months ) , stage ( stage i 8.5 months , stage iii 4 months ) , and karnofsky performance index ( greater than or equal to 90 9.3 months , less than or equal to 50 1.2 months ) . age and sex had no independent prognostic value in any group . performance score was highly correlated with stage ( and age ) and in this study represented the " best prognostic factor " in clinical practice . 
hemibody irradiation in advanced prostatic carcinoma . in summary , hemibody irradiation has developed as a safe , efficient technique for palliating multiple sites of symptomatic osseous metastases , which occur so often in advanced prostatic carcinoma . the rapidity , frequency , and duration of pain relief , as well as the convenience to the patient of a solitary treatment to multiple symptomatic areas simultaneously , make this type of treatment especially appealing . by following premedication and radiation dose guidelines , both acute and delayed side effects can be kept tolerable or at a minimal incidence . although sequential hemibody radiation has also been explored as " systemic " therapy , the results in prostatic carcinoma have not proved dramatic , and complications have been considerable . hormonal therapy would certainly seem to be less life-threatening and equally beneficial according to present data . as a palliative treatment , however , hemibody irradiation is a pragmatic option for relieving prostatic cancer pain . 
management of spinal cord compression secondary to metastatic prostatic carcinoma . spinal cord or cauda equina compression from prostatic cancer is an oncologic emergency necessitating prompt evaluation and treatment . the strong correlation between pretreatment motor status and treatment outcome underscores the importance of immediate treatment before further neurologic deterioration and before the damage to the spinal cord becomes permanent . patients with known osseous metastases should be alerted by their clinicians to seek medical help within hours should they develop weakness in an extremity . prompt mri of the entire spine should be done prior to treatment . myelography should be reserved for those patients who can not undergo a technically adequate or expeditious mri study . the convenience of mri relative to myelography allows clinicians to diagnose actual or impending spinal cord compression earlier . high-dose steroids ( dexamethasone ) should be instituted immediately , and endocrine therapy should be started if not already in use . ambulatory and moderately paraparetic patients seem best treated initially with radiation alone . immediate surgical decompression should be used in patients with an expected lifespan of at least 6 months who deteriorate during radiation , who have had previous radiation to the involved site , or who have a potentially correctable unstable spine . in addition , paraplegic patients or severely paraparetic patients with recent neurologic deterioration should be treated with immediate surgical decompression if they are judged reasonably able to tolerate the surgery . these patients should then receive postoperative radiation treatment . 
treatment of metastatic prostate cancer of the spine . there is a wide spectrum of presentations for prostate cancer metastatic to the spine . important factors are the patient 's age and general health ; the extent and location of spinal involvement ; the patient 's neurologic status and degree of pain ; the relative contribution of a blastic or lytic response ; and the experience and training of the spinal surgeon , medical oncologist , and radiation oncologist . the spine is both a weight-bearing structure and a housing for the spinal cord , and failure to consider both functions may lead to unsatisfactory treatment results . treatment options include hormonal therapy , inhibitors of bone metabolism , glucocorticoid therapy , radiotherapy , halo-vest , surgical debridement , decompression and stabilization , and appropriate pain management and support . one must not lose sight of the fact that the goals are palliation and that ultimate demise is unavoidable in patients with metastatic prostate cancer . 
partial and total penectomy for cancer . squamous carcinoma of the penis remains an uncommon tumor in the united states . in the properly selected patient , partial or total penectomy performed with an understanding of the salient surgical anatomy results in adequate local control of these cancers with excellent functional and cosmetic results . 
imaging of patients with stage d prostatic carcinoma . in conclusion , it would appear from present evidence that several statements can be made . first , mri is the most accurate method of staging the periprostatic spread of carcinoma . both the prostate and the regional nodes can be evaluated . the role of ultrasound is , at present , unclear . second , the utility of ct has diminished with the emergence of high-quality mri , but in situations in which mri scans are inconclusive ( e.g. , in the assessment of paraaortic node disease , in which images are degraded by peristaltic movement ) , ct may be useful . third , the choice of method for the assessment of nodal disease is a more difficult question . although mri and ct have replaced lymphography in most centers , the latter study , especially when combined with fine-needle aspiration biopsy , still is useful . fourth , bone metastases are best assessed with scintigraphy , which can point to areas requiring supplemental plain radiography . an mri study of the spine , although highly sensitive , is not practical . fifth , mri is superior to ct myelography in assessing spinal disease . finally , the chest radiograph is the mainstay of assessing chest involvement . 
initial results with slightly modified kock pouch . my initial experience with 20 patients undergoing kock pouch continent urinary diversion is reviewed . the procedure has been slightly modified from that described by kock and skinner . all patients have been followed for at least four months ( median , 33 months ) . there have been no early complications related to the pouch . the most significant problem , incontinence , has occurred in 2 patients ( 10 % ) at three and four months , respectively , after surgery . only 1 of these patients required temporary use of an external appliance . leakage was due , in both cases , to a patulous efferent nipple valve . both were repaired by plication of the nipple , and no new efferent limbs were constructed . in 1 patient ( 5 % ) prolapse of the afferent limb associated with reflux and pyelonephritis developed one year post-surgery . stones have developed in 3 patients ( 15 % ) . all patients are currently continent and stone-free , and all are pleased with the result . 
carcinoma of female urethra . manitoba experience : 1958-1987 . fourteen female patients with primary urethral carcinoma were treated at the manitoba cancer foundation in the last twenty-nine years . the relationship of natural history to the stage , location , and therapeutic modality has been reviewed . a higher stage and length of urethral involvement affected prognosis negatively , whereas lower stage had a positive prognostic effect and location of tumor had no prognostic influence . two patients with stage c , who failed to received inguinal node radiotherapy , died of disease recurring in the inguinal area . patients who received inguinal radiation ( 3 patients stages b , c , and d1 ) had no regional recurrence . it is suggested that , for all female urethral carcinoma , bilateral ilioinguinal nodes be included in the radiation field . for radical treatment , iridium 192 insertion in combination with external beam treatment is recommended . 
association of germ cell tumors and hodgkin 's disease . two patients presented with synchronous hodgkin 's disease and testicular germ cell neoplasms . both patients are in complete remission following treatment with multidrug chemotherapy and radiation therapy . despite epidemiologic similarities between hodgkin 's disease and testicular cancer , only 13 cases of their association in the same patient have been reported in the literature , and in all those instances the tumors occurred metachronously . however , the very rare occurrence of synchronous presentation suggests a possible common pathogenetic factor in our 2 patients . 
coexistence of testicular carcinoma and hairy cell leukemia . the coexistence of two relatively rare disorders in 1 patient often induces speculation about possible cause and effect of these disorders . the suitable therapeutic regimen for both diseases and roentgenologic manifestations are described . 
bilateral renal cell carcinoma with metastasis to thyroid . a case of bilateral synchronous renal cell carcinomas with metastases to the regional lymph nodes and later to the thyroid gland was treated with aggressive surgical extirpation and adjuvant gamma interferon . the patient continues to have an excellent performance status sixteen months after initial diagnosis despite a large tumor burden at presentation . 
intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin for patients with high-risk superficial bladder cancer . intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin ( bcg ) was employed in the treatment of 55 patients with aggressive superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder ( cta , ct1 , ctis ) . all of the patients had a previous history of recurrent superficial disease , and 41 ( 75 % ) were treatment failures following other intravesical therapy . thirty-six ( 66 % ) patients responded to treatment , and 19 ( 34 % ) were treatment failures . twenty-seven ( 66 % ) of 41 patients with cta-ct1 tumors and 9 ( 64 % ) of 14 patients with ctis responded , with a mean follow-up period of 30.5 months . disease progression was noted in 8 ( 15 % ) of the patients and muscle invasive disease in 6 . patients with a history of three or more previous events of tumor recurrence , positive urinary cytology , and multicentric disease , all fared worse than patients without these characteristics ( p less than 0.05 ) . bcg is an effective agent in controlling superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder , even in a high-risk group of patients who failed previous intravesical therapy . bcg should be employed in this group of patients prior to radical surgery . 
percutaneous urinary diversion in patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer . twenty-two patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer underwent percutaneous urinary diversion ; at the time , all but one had metastatic disease . eleven patients received postnephrostomy therapy . the median survival time for all the patients was one hundred nineteen days . overall , 41 percent of the patients ' remaining lifetime was spent in the hospital . six never left the hospital and 10 required rehospitalization ; the remaining 6 patients were never rehospitalized . the median survival time for this group of patients was shorter than the expected survival of similar patients without ureteral obstruction . it appears that percutaneous urinary diversion does not improve the quality of life of these patients . 
prognostic factors and value of adjunctive nephrectomy in patients with stage iv renal cell carcinoma . we reviewed 57 cases of stage iv renal cell carcinoma to clarify the factors influencing prognosis and to evaluate the value of nephrectomy . cumulative survival from the initial diagnosis was analyzed with respect to the patients ' age , sex , side of primary tumor , initial performance status ( ps ) , site of metastasis , and nephrectomy . overall survival for the patients was 51 percent at one year , 22 percent at three years , and 11 percent at five years . age , sex , and side of primary tumor had no influence on survival . improved survival was correlated with good ps , metastases limited to single organ , and removal of the primary tumor . with regard to histopathologic features in nephrectomized patients , low grade and stage were correlated with longer survival . these factors should be considered in the analysis of results of future clinical trials of metastatic renal cell carcinoma . 
cytologic criteria to distinguish hepatocellular carcinoma from nonneoplastic liver . the authors reviewed a series of fine-needle aspiration biopsy ( fnab ) specimens of the liver to identify useful cytologic criteria to distinguish hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) from nonneoplastic liver . ten cytologic features were examined in this study : high cellularity , acinar pattern , trabecular pattern , hyperchromasia , pleomorphism , irregularly granular chromatin , uniformly prominent nucleoli , multiple nucleoli , increased nuclear/cytoplasmic ratio , and atypical naked hepatocytic nuclei . these features were examined in a series of 82 fnab specimens from 52 patients with hcc and 30 patients with nonneoplastic lesions . with the use of a step-wise logistic regression analysis , three features were identified as predictive of hcc : increased nuclear/cytoplasmic ratio ( p = 0.001 ) , trabecular pattern ( p = 0.002 ) , and atypical naked hepatocytic nuclei ( p = 0.03 ) . when these three criteria were used , the sensitivity of diagnosing hcc by fnab was 100 % , and the specificity was 87 % . 
cytologic identification of clinically occult proliferative breast disease in women with a family history of breast cancer . a cytologic method for sampling the normal breast by fine-needle aspiration ( fna ) was used to determine the frequency of clinically inapparent proliferative breast disease ( pbd ) in women with family histories of breast cancer . the authors attempted to obtain specimens from each quadrant of both breasts in 51 female first-degree relatives of breast cancer patients . the study group had no detectable masses by physical examination or mammography . samples were prepared on membrane filters , papanicolaou stained , and evaluated cytomorphologically . three hundred seventy-eight of 408 ( 92.6 % ) possible quadrants were sampled ; cellular material was obtained from 290 ( 76.7 % ) quadrants . pbd was identified in 20 of the 51 women ( 39.2 % ) . when epithelium was obtained , nuclear area , perimeter , and diameter were measured with the use of computerized image analysis . nuclei in samples containing atypical hyperplasia showed significant differences in these parameters when compared with cells from samples containing normal epithelium or benign hyperplasia . the authors ' findings indicate that fna sampling and computerized image analysis are useful in the detection and characterization of clinically inapparent pbd . 
metastatic small cell tumor of bone with ' true ' rosettes and glial fibrillary acidic protein positivity . a 15-year-old black girl was admitted to st. jude children 's research hospital with a lytic lesion involving the right fourth metacarpal bone with a solitary metastasis to the ipsilateral axillary lymph node . histologic examination of both the primary lesion and metastasis revealed a primitive small round cell lesion . abundant rosettes with central lumina were present in the metastasis . immunohistochemical stains performed on sections of the metastasis were strongly positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein ( gfap ) and negative for neuron-specific enolase ( nse ) , s-100 protein , and leu-7 . electron microscopic examination of the metastasis revealed lumen formation with apical microvilli and juxtaluminal junctional complexes . this tumor exhibits features that are suggestive , but not definitive , of primitive ependymal differentiation and further expands the morphologic and immunophenotypic range of small round cell tumors of bone . 
primary hepatic carcinoid tumor . an electron microscopic and immunohistochemical study . a case of primary carcinoid tumor of the liver with striking morphologic and electron microscopic features is reported . conventional histologic examination showed a prominent paranuclear clear zone in numerous tumor cells . by electron microscopic examination , this clear zone corresponded to a paranuclear mass of intermediate filaments admixed with neurosecretory granules and other cytoplasmic organelles . 
papillary carcinoma of the thyroid with mucoepidermoid features . the significance and differential diagnoses of signet-ring cells found in the fine-needle aspirate of metastatic mucoepidermoid carcinoma from the thyroid are reported and discussed . the primary tumor occurred in a 35-year-old man , who had a history of neck irradiation during his childhood . despite postoperative treatment with 60 gy external radiation and 1,200 mci 131i , the patient has at present -- 12 years after the initial operation -- progressive disease with local recurrence in the neck as well as lung metastases . 
surface and cytoplasmic expression of cd45 antigen isoforms in normal and malignant myeloid cell differentiation . the cd45 family contains protein tyrosine phosphatase ( ptpase ) activity and is expressed in one or more of its isoforms on all lymphohematopoietic cells . considerable work has focused on cd45 expression by lymphoid cells , but minimal work has involved granulocytes . granulocytic , or myeloid , cell differentiation is accompanied by a number of morphologic and immunophenotypic changes . this study used flow cytometric and immunocytochemical methods in conjunction with morphologic assessment to investigate the expression of cd45 isoforms during differentiation of normal and malignant granulocytic cells . on normal bone marrow cells , the quantity of surface cd45 did not change during earlier stages but did increase significantly at the terminal stages ( bands and polymorphonuclear leukocytes [ pmns ] ) . cd45ro ( the low relative molecular mass [ mr ] isoform ) was very dimly expressed on immature cells but became increasingly brighter beginning at approximately the myelocyte stage . the high mr isoform ( cd45ra ) was virtually absent from the cell surface at all stages . only a small percentage ( 3-15 % ) of pmns expressed surface cd45ra . however , there was a cytoplasmic pool of each isoform associated with membrane-bound granules found throughout differentiation , with remarkable increases in expression at the terminal stages . in the case of acute myeloid leukemias ( amls ) , most cases expressed surface cd45ra with , or without , cd45ro , regardless of their french-american-british ( fab ) classification . this appeared to be a stable process at diagnosis and relapse in individual patients and may therefore serve as a diagnostic aid . the biologic significance of this aberrant expression of cd45ra by malignant cells is unknown but raises important questions regarding the cellular processes of phosphorylation/dephosphorylation in normal and malignant cells . 
a6 -- a new 45ro monoclonal antibody for immunostaining of paraffin-embedded tissues . the authors report on the extensive characterization , on normal and pathologic tissues , of the t-cell-specific monoclonal antibody ( moab ) a6 , which the authors previously found to identify a fixation - and paraffin-embedding-resistant epitope . a6 reacted with most t lymphocytes , macrophages , and langerhans ' cells of normal tissues and with peripheral t-cell lymphomas ( 31 of 34 ) , ki-1 + lymphomas ( 12 of 18 ) , and t-cell leukemias ( 1 of 5 ) . all cases of x and non-x histiocytosis examined and monocytic leukemias with mature phenotype only were a6 positive . three of 47 cases of b-cell lymphoma and leukemia were labeled . hairy cell leukemias , multiple myelomas , and hodgkin 's and reed-sternberg cells were negative . the a6 reactivity was preserved with different fixatives ( formalin , bouin 's fluid , carnoy 's fixative , and b5 ) and decalcification procedures and was slightly enhanced by trypsin digestion . the pattern of reactivity of a6 was similar to that obtained with moab uchl-1 , recognizing the cd45ro determinant of leukocyte common antigen ; however , in pathologic tissues , a6 labeled a higher percentage of cells than uchl-1 . cross-blocking and enzyme digestion studies ( pronase e [ sigma chemical , st. louis , mo ] and neuraminidase [ sigma chemical ] ) indicated that the two moabs may identify close epitopes on the same molecule . in conclusion , the authors ' study indicates that a6 is an excellent reagent for detection of the cd45ro molecule on paraffin-embedded normal and pathologic tissues . 
use of a probe to repeat sequence of the y chromosome for detection of host cells in peripheral blood of bone marrow transplant recipients . in situ hybridization for the y chromosome ( y-ish ) was used to identify residual host cells in the peripheral blood of 51 recipients of sex-mismatched allogeneic marrow not depleted of t cells following conditioning with high-dose cyclophosphamide and total body irradiation ( tbi ) . one patient who rejected the graft showed rapid reappearance of host cells after transient donor marrow engraftment . host cells were detected at low levels in 49 of the remaining 50 patients . host peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( pbmc ) decreased with time and reached a plateau at 1.0 + / - 0.2 % within four weeks after transplantation , while the percentage of host granulocytes ( gran ) reached a plateau at background level . the mean absolute numbers of host pbmc or gran were less than 0.015 x 10 ( 9 ) / l and did not vary significantly over the period studied . neither the percentages nor the absolute numbers of host pbmc or gran were significantly affected by hla-matching , tbi dose-intensity , pretransplant remission status , subsequent development of acute or chronic graft-versus-host disease or relapse after transplantation . the authors conclude that it is common to find a few residual host cells in the peripheral blood of allogeneic marrow transplant recipients , and the presence of these cells has no clinical significance . 
granulocytic sarcoma presenting as an epidural mass with acute paraparesis in an aleukemic patient . granulocytic sarcomas are rare tumors composed of granulocytic precursor cells . they are most commonly encountered in patients with acute myelogenous leukemias and myeloproliferative disorders in blast crisis . rarely , patients presenting with granulocytic sarcoma show no evidence of acute leukemia . the authors report an aleukemic patient with acute paraparesis from an epidural granulocytic sarcoma . only five such cases have been reported previously . immunoperoxidase stain for lysozyme and chloroacetate esterase stain were used to prove the myeloid origin of the tumor cells . 
secretin provocation test in the diagnosis of zollinger-ellison syndrome . the secretin stimulation test has become the preferred provocative test in suspected cases of zollinger-ellison syndrome . a pure secretin preparation , a gastrin-specific radioimmunoassay , and an appropriate sampling sequence are important for the proper interpretation of this test . gastric acid analysis is necessary in the assessment of hypergastrinemia to confirm acid hypersecretion and exclude achlorhydria . when properly performed and interpreted , the secretin provocation test offers a safe , expeditious , and reliable means of evaluating patients with hypergastrinemia . 
dna flow cytometry of colorectal carcinoma : correlation of dna stemlines with other prognostic indices . dna flow cytometry ( fcm ) was performed on paraffin-embedded tissue blocks of 38 surgically resected colorectal carcinomas ( crc ) . forty-seven percent of tumors exhibited aneuploidy and 53 % were diploid . seventy-two percent of patients in the aneuploid but only 35 % in the diploid group were alive after a mean follow-up of 30.7 and 28.8 months ( p = 0.01 ) , and 5-yr survival of 56.7 % and 11.7 % , respectively ( p less than 0.05 ) . the site of tumor location , dukes ' stage , and serum cea level did not predict a certain dna stemline . however , irrespective of the ploidy pattern , a serum cea level greater than 5.0 was associated with a higher mortality and poor 5-yr survival ( p less than 0.005 ) . similarly , advanced dukes ' stage was associated with higher mortality ( p less than 0.05 ) . forty-six percent of the patients with lesions that were dukes ' b2 or advanced stage received adjuvant therapy . eighty-five percent of this subgroup of patients died ; 18 % of these patients had aneuploid tumors . the role of fcm in the assessment of prognosis of crc deserves further clinical evaluation in a randomized control trial . 
magnetic resonance imaging of small hepatocellular carcinoma . thirty-eight patients with small hepatocellular carcinomas ( hccs ) , size less than 20 mm , initially detected by ultrasound ( us ) and histologically confirmed , were examined by magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging , computed tomographic ( ct ) scan , and angiography . mr imaging demonstrated hcc nodules in nine ( 75.0 % ) of 12 patients with tumors less than 10 mm in diameter and in 22 ( 84.6 % ) of 26 patients with tumors 10-20 mm in diameter . in total , hcc nodules were detected in 31 of 38 patients ( 81.6 % ) by mr imaging . on the other hand , hcc lesions were found on ct scan in 14 of 26 patients ( 53.8 % ) and in 27 of 35 patients ( 77.1 % ) by angiography . with mr imaging , hcc nodules were demonstrated in 21 of 31 patients on both t1 and t2 weighted images , and 13 of 21 patients ( 61.9 % ) were shown to have low intensity areas or iso intensity areas on t1 weighted image , whereas the other eight patients ( 38.1 % ) were shown to have high intensity areas . all 21 patients were shown to have high intensity areas on t2 weighted image . among 15 resected cases , four patients had a high intensity area on t1 weighted image , and a significant fatty change was noted in hcc nodules by histological study of the resected specimen . we suggest that mr imaging is a useful diagnostic imaging modality , even in small hcc of less than 20 mm . 
intrahepatic lymphatics opacified during hepatic arteriography in a patient with hepatocellular carcinoma . extrahepatic lymph node metastases are not uncommon in advanced cases of hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) . this is the account of a hcc case in which intrahepatic lymphatics running toward the hepatic hilus were clearly opacified during hepatic arteriography . the patient was treated by hepatic artery embolization followed by selective embolization of the portal branches , but lymph node metastases at the hepatic hilus were later found during follow-up . the clinical course of this case suggests that the communication between the tumor and the lymphatics was responsible for the lymph node metastasis . 
inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver associated with acute myelomonocytic leukemia . a patient with inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver associated with acute myelomonocytic leukemia ( m4 ) is reported . he had spiking fever , epigastralgia , and elevated levels of serum c-reactive protein ( crp ) and alkaline phosphatase ( alp ) . ultrasonography showed a hypoechoic mass in the liver , and ultrasonically guided fine needle aspiration biopsy of the mass revealed that it was composed of fibrous connective tissue infiltrated with plasma cells , eosinophils , and neutrophils . accordingly , a diagnosis of inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver was made . marked reduction in the size of the lesion and a decrease of the levels of the crp and alp occurred without specific treatment . we emphasize the importance of ultrasonically guided aspiration biopsy in diagnosis of inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver without the need for surgery . 
endosalpingosis as a cause of chronic pelvic pain . endosalpingosis , a condition characterized by ectopic oviduct epithelium , is diagnosed histologically by the appearance of benign ciliated and nonciliated columnar cells in an abnormal location . endosalpingosis is typically without symptoms . our unusual case report shows symptomatic endosalpingosis first seen with chronic pelvic pain . various aspects of this disease will also be discussed . 
endodermal sinus tumor of the ovary during pregnancy : a case report . serum alpha-fetoprotein screening led to the detection of an endodermal sinus tumor of the ovary in a 24-year-old female in week 17 of pregnancy . after surgery , chemotherapy was postponed . in week 28 levels of serum alpha-fetoprotein increased , but delivery was delayed until 33 weeks ' gestation . after delivery , the patient received four chemotherapy courses ( cisplatin , etoposide , and bleomycin ) . mother ( 24 months after last chemotherapy ) and child are doing well . 
analysis of antigen expression at multiple tumor sites in epithelial ovarian cancer . the question of whether the antigenic phenotype of human epithelial ovarian cancer varies in a given patient between the primary tumor and metastatic sites or among metastatic sites themselves is an important issue in planning potential therapeutic strategies for ovarian cancer . we have obtained tumor specimens from at least two separate sites during operations on 12 patients with epithelial ovarian cancer , and we have typed these specimens with a group of 18 monoclonal antibodies that react with cell-surface glycoprotein and carbohydrate antigens , including blood group antigens . antibodies with relative specificity for malignant cells as well as those that detect more widely distributed epithelial antigens were used . a total of 31 specimens from 12 patients with advanced adenocarcinoma ( 8 serous , 3 undifferentiated , 1 endometrioid ) of the ovary were studied , including fresh ascites cells in two patients . frozen sections of tumor specimens were stained with the antibodies by the indirect immunoperoxidase technique and graded semiquantitatively . little difference was seen in antigenic expression of tumors that were obtained from various sites in the same patient for either the epithelial cell markers or blood group markers . intratumoral antigenic heterogeneity was seen , but this was generally quite consistent within a given patient 's specimens . as anticipated , variations in antigen expression were seen among specimens from different patients . the antigenic phenotype of the tumor specimens in a given patient , as determined immunohistochemically by our group of antibodies , showed only minor variation among primary and metastatic sites . 
ovarian neoplasms and the risk of adnexal torsion . previous reports examining adnexal torsion suggested that benign ovarian neoplasms are more likely to undergo torsion than malignant ovarian neoplasms . to our knowledge , this clinical observation has not been quantified . to examine this hypothesis , we reviewed our experience with ovarian neoplasms found at the time of surgery over a 10-year period . benign ovarian neoplasms had a 12.9-fold increased risk of undergoing adnexal torsion when compared with malignant ovarian neoplasms ( 95 % confidence interval , 10.2 to 15.9 ) . the histologic type of ovarian neoplasm does not appear to affect the rate of adnexal torsion . adnexal torsion rarely involves cancer . 
laparoscopic pelvic lymphadenectomy in the staging of early carcinoma of the cervix . laparoscopic pelvic lymphadenectomy was performed in 39 patients . an incision of the peritoneum between the round and infundibulo-pelvic ligament on each side gave access to the retroperitoneal space . subsequently , laparoscopic surgery allowed precise dissection of external and internal iliac vessels , umbilical artery , and obturator nerve . the peritoneum was left open , and the lymph was drained into the peritoneal cavity . no lymphocele was observed . three to 22 ( mean , 8.7 ) nodes were removed , and there was no significant morbidity . sensitivity and specificity were 100 % in this preliminary experience . it is thus possible to remove the first-line regional lymph nodes of the cervix for pathologic examination . because " skip " metastases are quite rare in early cervical carcinoma , the risk of missing a positive node is low . brachytherapy alone , vaginal surgery , or , in microinvasive carcinoma , conization alone can be applied safely without the need of a staging laparotomy in cases with negative nodes . 
the increased frequency of cervical dysplasia-neoplasia in women infected with the human immunodeficiency virus is related to the degree of immunosuppression . cytologic and histologic investigations of the uterine cervix and studies of the lymphocyte functions were performed in human immunodeficiency virus-infected and human immunodeficiency virus antibody-negative women to study possible linkages between human papillomavirus-induced dysplasia and degree of human immunodeficiency virus-induced immunosuppression . cytologic smears of the uterine cervix of 111 human immunodeficiency virus-infected women were compared with findings in 76 female intravenous drug users negative for human immunodeficiency virus antibodies and in a group of 526 women of the outpatient population of the hospital . cervical dysplasia-neoplasia ( including five cases of invasive carcinoma ) was seen in 41 % of the human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients . in human immunodeficiency virus-negative intravenous drug users dysplasia-neoplasia was seen in 9 % , and in the sample from outpatients in 4 % , including two cases of invasive carcinoma ( p less than 0.01 ) . cytologic features that were attributable to infection with human papillomavirus were observed in human immunodeficiency virus-infected women four times more often than in the sample from the outpatient population ( p less than 0.01 ) . frequency and severity of dysplasia appear to increase with diminishing numbers of cd4 + helper/inducer t lymphocytes and correlated significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) with a loss of blastogenic response to phytohemagglutinin , pokeweed mitogen , and tetanus toxoid . these results suggest an increased risk for the development of dysplasia of the uterine cervix in women with human immunodeficiency virus infection , which is related to the degree of immunosuppression . 
the value of squamous cell carcinoma antigen in patients with locally advanced cervical cancer undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy . serum levels of squamous cell carcinoma antigen were measured in 688 samples from 119 patients with cervical cancer . ninety-seven patients had primary tumors and 22 had recurrent disease . serum samples were obtained before each cycle of chemotherapy , before surgery , at least 4 weeks after surgery , and at 2 - to 3-month intervals during follow-up from 78 of the patients with locally advanced cervical cancer who were receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy . squamous cell carcinoma antigen serum levels were elevated ( greater than 2.5 ng/ml ) in 71 % of the patients with primary tumors and in 77 % of the patients with recurrent carcinomas . the percentage of positivity increased significantly with stage ( p = 0.03 ) and was higher in squamous cell tumors than in adenocarcinomas ( p less than 0.001 ) . pretreatment squamous cell carcinoma antigen levels were not predictive of neoadjuvant chemotherapy response ; however , the serial measurement during chemotherapy showed a good correlation with clinical response . in the patients who had surgery , squamous cell carcinoma antigen positivity did not correlate to pathologic findings ( lymph node status , cervical and parametrial infiltration ) . disease-free survival was significantly longer in patients with squamous cell carcinoma antigen pretreatment values that were lower than 5 ng/ml , compared with patients with marker higher than 5 ng/ml ( p less than 0.01 ) . abnormal squamous cell carcinoma antigen serum levels preceded the clinical detection of recurrence in eight of 11 patients with a median lead time of 5 months . 
clinical implications of screening for cervical cancer under medicare . the natural history of cervical cancer in the elderly : what do we know ? what do we need to know ? despite the recent passage of coverage for papanicolaou test screening under medicare , several aspects of the natural history of cervical cancer in the elderly remain uncertain . this article reviews what we know about cervical cancer in elderly women to provide clinicians with the background necessary for assessments of screening recommendations , integration of new data into practice , and development of consensus approaches to screening in the elderly . two central questions that affect a screening program for the elderly are how long the neoplastic process takes from preinvasive disease to the development of invasive cancer , and how likely is it that a given neoplastic state observed in an elderly woman will , in fact , progress to a more severe state . the ultimate success of the new medicare benefit will also be affected by the use of papanicolaou testing , the technique of obtaining the smear , and the adequacy of reporting and follow-up . the expansion of medicare benefits to include early cervical cancer detection has the potential to improve the quality and the duration of older women 's lives . 
epidermal growth factor receptor expression in normal ovarian epithelium and ovarian cancer . i. correlation of receptor expression with prognostic factors in patients with ovarian cancer . previous studies in breast and bladder cancer have suggested that epidermal growth factor receptor is expressed by only a proportion of cancers and is associated with poor clinical outcome . we used a monoclonal antibody specifically reactive with the extracellular domain of the epidermal growth factor receptor to localize this receptor immunohistochemically in frozen sections of normal ovary and epithelial ovarian cancer . normal ovarian epithelium was found to express epidermal growth factor receptor in all cases . among 87 ovarian cancers , however , 23 % did not express immunohistochemically detectable receptor . epidermal growth factor receptor expression was not related to histologic grade or stage , but was associated with poor survival ( p less than 0.05 ) . the median length of survival of patients with tumors that did not express epidermal growth factor receptor was 40 months compared with 26 months in patients with tumors that did express epidermal growth factor receptor . as in breast and bladder cancer , expression of epidermal growth factor receptor in ovarian cancer appears to be a poor prognostic factor . 
mucogenic secondary open-angle glaucoma in diffuse epithelial ingrowth treated by block-excision . we treated a 40-year-old man with an acute , unilateral , open-angle glaucoma caused by a gelatinous translucent material in the anterior chamber . a clinical diagnosis of mucogenic secondary open-angle glaucoma caused by diffuse epithelial ingrowth after ocular trauma one year earlier was suspected , but a primary or secondary ciliary body or iris neoplasm could not be ruled out . a curative 9-mm block-excision was performed . six years later , intraocular pressure was normal , and the visual function was unchanged . light and electron microscopy disclosed an island of diffuse columnar epithelium with numerous goblet cells on the iris surface and copious mucinous material extending into the trabecular mesh-work . 
detection of loss of heterozygosity in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tumor specimens by the polymerase chain reaction . a polymerase chain reaction-based procedure was used for the detection of dna length polymorphisms generated by naturally occurring genetic deletions or insertions of known sequence . this method consists of a simple one-step assay that does not require any restriction enzyme analysis or southern blot hybridization , allowing identification in ethidium bromide-stained gels . the procedure described here was used to detect loss of heterozygosity at various loci , including the hbb beta-globin gene cluster , in chemically induced mouse skin tumors , using a variety of tissue preparations , including microdissection of formalin-fixed , paraffin-embedded specimens , short-term cultures , and fluorescence-activated cell sorting of epithelial populations . this approach may be useful in detecting tumor-specific reduction to homozygosity at polymorphic chromosomal loci , allowing the mapping of putative tumor-suppressor loci involved in carcinogenesis . 
characterization of preneoplastic and neoplastic lesions in the rat pancreas . nodules of acinar cells with increased proliferative potential develop in the pancreas of carcinogen-treated rats and in untreated aged rats . large nodules are classed as adenomas . phenotypic and genotypic characteristics of nodule cells were compared with normal pancreas and transplantable acinar cell carcinomas by several methods . nuclei of acinar cells from normal pancreas , adenomas , and three carcinomas in situ had normal diploid dna content as determined by flow cytometry . one of two primary carcinomas had a hypodiploid dna content . two of three transplantable carcinomas were aneuploid with a dna content in the tetraploid range . explants from nodules and adenomas failed to grow in soft agar , whereas several carcinomas were positive in this assay . a primary carcinoma was serially transplanted , but transplantation of nodules or adenomas failed . transfection of dna from carcinomas in situ yielded a higher frequency of nih 3t3 transformants than dna from adenomas . dnas from the transformants did not contain ras sequences . these studies indicate that cells from nodules and adenomas have low growth potential and lack critical phenotypic and genotypic characteristics of transformed malignant cells that were present in some primary and transplanted carcinomas . 
induction of different morphologic features of malignant melanoma and pigmented lesions after transformation of murine melanocytes with bfgf-cdna and h-ras , myc , neu , and e1a oncogenes . malignant melanomas show a remarkable degree of heterogeneity because of different morphologic features , biologic behavior , and prognosis . in this communication , the authors attempted to correlate morphologic heterogeneity of melanomas with transformation by different activated oncogenes ; they studied the histologic features of melanocytic lesions induced by murine melanocytes transformed by basic fibroblast growth factor ( b-fgf-cdna ) or h-ras , neu , myc , and e1a oncogenes , and the lesions were compared with those observed in human pathology . tumors formed after grafting onto syngenic mice or subcutaneous injections in nude mice were studied . in syngenic mice , benign melanocytic lesions reminiscent of intradermal nevus were observed with melanocytes transformed with b-fgf-cdna , and myc and e1a oncogenes . benign lesions were also formed by neu-transformed melanocytes when they were grafted concomitantly with keratinocytes , whereas malignant tumors were formed by the same cells when grafted alone or together with fibroblasts . in contrast , h-ras melanocytes always formed malignant tumors . in nude mice , b-fgf-transformed melanocytes induced benign lesions , whereas transformed melanocytes by the other oncogenes formed malignant tumors with distinctive and homogeneous morphologic features that depended on the transforming oncogene . melanomas with either epithelioid cell , spindle cell , small round cell , and anaplastic cell growth patterns could be distinguished after transformation with h-ras , neu , e1a , and myc oncogenes , respectively . these various histologic types are analogous to those that may be observed in human melanomas , even within the same tumor . these studies suggest a possible molecular mechanism for tumor heterogeneity in which distinct oncogenes or oncogenelike activities can be activated in different tumors or discrete parts of the same tumor . 
marker profile of different phases in the transition of normal human ovarian epithelium to ovarian carcinomas . to investigate whether early changes in the transformation of normal ovarian epithelial cells into tumor cells can be detected with monoclonal antibodies , a comparative immunohistochemical study was performed on normal human ovarian mesothelial cells , cystomas , cystadenomas , ovarian carcinomas , as well as granulosa cell tumor . using monoclonal antibodies against different keratin subtypes , it was shown that mesothelial cells , ovarian cysts , cystadenomas , and carcinomas all reacted positively with broad-spectrum anti-keratin monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) , as well as with mabs to keratins 7 , 8 , 18 , and 19 . keratins 4 and 13 were not found in mesothelial cells , but positive groups of cells were identified in several cystomas , adenomas , and carcinomas . while mesothelial cells did not react with the pan-epithelial marker bw495/36 , invaginating metaplastic mesothelial cells , inclusion cysts , cystomas , adenomas , and carcinomas showed an increasing reactivity with bw495/36 , with an increasing degree of malignancy . the reactivity of mabs against ovarian carcinoma-associated antigens ( ov-tl 3 , oc 125 , mov 18 , and ov-tl 10 ) was limited to weak staining reaction in some mesothelial cells but were found to be positive on more than 50 % of the ovarian cystadenomas and more than 90 % of the ovarian carcinomas . thecal and granulosa cells of primordial , primary , and secondary follicles all reacted positively with antibodies to the broad-spectrum keratins ov-tl 12/5 and rck 102 , and to keratins 8 and 18 , but not with keratins 4 , 7 , 13 , and 19 . these keratins decreased or disappeared in granulosa cells of mature follicles ( graafian follicles ) , whereas granulosa cell tumors did not react with anti-keratin antibodies . the reactivity of bw 495/36 was negative or limited to traces in some granulosa cells . ovarian carcinoma-associated antigens were not expressed in granulosa cells or granulosa cell tumors . the data indicate that mesothelial cells undergoing metaplastic changes finally resulting in ovarian cystadenomas ( and carcinomas ) initiate the synthesis of a 200-kd glycoprotein recognized by mab ( bw 495/36 ) , the production of ovarian carcinoma associated antigens , in addition to focal production of keratin 4 and/or 13 , as seen in several samples . the granulosa cell tumors decrease or switch off their keratin production and remain negative for the 200-kd glycoprotein and the ovarian carcinoma-associated antigens . 
keratin subsets in spindle cell sarcomas . keratins are widespread but synovial sarcoma contains a distinctive keratin polypeptide pattern and desmoplakins . the presence of individual keratin polypeptides and desmoplakins was immunohistochemically studied in 25 spindle cell sarcomas of different types using acetone-fixed frozen sections . results revealed that keratins 8 and 18 were present in a high number of tumors : 9 of 9 synovial sarcomas , 5 of 7 leiomyosarcomas , 5 of 5 malignant schwannomas , and 1 of 4 undifferentiated spindle cell sarcomas . in addition to keratins 8 and 18 , the glandular component of synovial sarcoma showed prominent reactivity with antibodies to keratins 7 and 19 . also the glandular epithelial cells in synovial sarcoma showed desmoplakin immunoreactivity preferentially in a luminal distribution , but desmoplakin was absent in other spindle cell sarcomas . furthermore keratin 13 was seen focally in 4 of 9 synovial sarcomas . in contrast , keratins 7 , 13 , and 19 were practically absent in leiomyosarcomas , malignant schwannomas , and undifferentiated spindle cell sarcomas . the widespread presence of keratins 8 and 18 in various spindle cell sarcomas may reflect aberrant keratin expression in mesenchymal cells , previously described in cultured transformed fibroblasts . the presence of keratins 7 and 19 and desmoplakin is highly associated with morphologically observable epithelial differentiation restricted to synovial sarcoma among spindle cell sarcomas . 
treatment of angiomas with sclerosing injection of hydroxypolyethoxydodecan . the authors discuss the indications for hydroxypolyethoxydodecan in the sclerosing treatment of angiomas , with particular reference to cavernous , venous , and evolutive angiomas ( ie , immature angiomas that fail to involute by eight to ten months ) . moreover , the sclerosing agent may be employed , in connection with embolization and subsequent surgery , in arteriovenous angiomas with a relevant cutaneous-subcutaneous development . the authors have successfully used the " interstitial " sclerosing technique , according to andrews ' method . this technique involves interstitial injections to obtain the sclerosis of the thin threads of fibrous tissue stroma between the blood vessels . the sclerosing therapy may cause the complete regression of " low flow " angiomas or , at least , a partial reduction that simplifies the ensuing surgical excision . in the case of partial regression of the angioma obtained with the sclerosing therapy , the surgery of the remaining angioma causes a lesser degree of bleeding ( especially in areas that do not particularly lend themselves to surgical exploration , ie , the oral cavity ) ; an increased reliability in the radicality of the intervention ( due also to the reduced size of the lesion ) ; and better results from an aesthetic-functional point of view . 
intraoperative pancreatic fine needle aspiration biopsy . results in 166 patients . intraoperative fine needle aspiration biopsy ( nab ) of undiagnosed pancreatic masses was studied in 166 patients over a 17-year period . the cytologic diagnoses were correlated with histologic specimens , autopsy results , or clinical follow-up ( benign disease was documented if the patient was alive without malignancy at least 2 years after laparotomy ) . aspirates were interpreted as benign , suspicious , malignant , or unsatisfactory . malignant disease was the final diagnosis in 109 patients ; the cytology was concordant in 101 and was interpreted as suspicious in four . four patients with benign cytology later proved to have malignant disease -- a false-negative rate of 2.5 per cent . a total of 57 patients had benign disease ; 51 of these had benign cytology . the remaining patients had " unsatisfactory " cytology reports . a 93 per cent sensitivity , 100 per cent specificity , and 0 per cent complication rate are reported . there were no false-positive cytology reports . complications are rare and represent case reports , thus , additional sampling is at minimal risk . intraoperative pancreatic nab is a safe , easy , more accurate biopsy technique than historical wedge or core needle biopsies . it is the biopsy method of choice for pancreatic masses found at laparotomy . 
skull base malignancy following long-term sinus mucocele and osteomyelitis . a case of skull base malignancy following long-term sinus mucocele is presented . while the similarity in clinical signs between sinus mucocele and malignancy has recently been emphasized in the literature , no previous case of skull base malignancy following frontoethmoid mucocele has been reported . the literature is reviewed and the association between inflammatory conditions and sinus malignancy is outlined . 
surgical voice restoration with the blom-singer prosthesis following laryngopharyngoesophagectomy and pharyngogastric anastomosis . surgical voice restoration using the blom-singer technique is a well-established procedure in patients who have undergone simple laryngectomy . operations for hypopharyngeal carcinoma are more extensive and require reconstruction using regional skin or myocutaneous flaps , or reanastomosis with colon , jejunum , or stomach . we report the use of the blom-singer prosthesis in four patients who had undergone pharyngogastric repair following laryngopharyngoesophagectomy and who had failed to achieve a satisfactory voice . all patients initially developed good speech using the prosthesis . two patients subsequently had their prostheses removed : one because of recurrent malignant disease and one because the procedure had not significantly altered the quality of the voice . the remaining two patients have continued to use the device at 2 and 5 years after insertion with good voice production . 
management of subglottic stenosis in the adult . twenty-one adult patients were surgically treated for severe subglottic stenosis refractory to endoscopic treatment . patients were treated by anterior or anterior and posterior cricoid division with costal cartilage grafting . seventy-six percent of the patients were successfully decannulated . success of treatment was not dependent on cause of the stenosis or age or sex of the patient . there was a significantly better outcome ( p less than .05 ) in patients with isolated subglottic stenosis versus those with combined glottic and subglottic stenosis . 
selenium in forage crops and cancer mortality in u.s. counties . the potential protective effect of selenium status on the risk of developing cancer has been examined in animal and epidemiologic studies . this ecological study investigated the association between u.s. county forage selenium status and site - and sex-specific county cancer mortality rates ( 1950-1969 ) using weighted least squares regression . consistent , significant ( p less than .01 ) inverse associations were observed for cancers of the lung , rectum , bladder , esophagus , and cervix in a model limited to rural counties and for cancers of the lung , breast , rectum , bladder , esophagus , and corpus uteri in a model of all counties . no consistent significant positive associations were observed in the rural county models . this remarkable degree of consistency for the inverse associations strengthens the likelihood of a causal relationship between low selenium status and an increased risk of cancer mortality . 
rapid analysis of carcinoembryonic antigen levels in gallbladder bile . identification of patients at high risk of colorectal liver metastasis recently it was found that immunoanalysis of carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) levels in gallbladder bile may be a sensitive method to detect colorectal liver metastases in humans . methods used in the past for the detection of cea in various body fluids were cumbersome and time consuming , requiring acid extraction , extensive dialysis , and column purification . single-step , solid-phase radioimmunoassays , designed specifically for serum cea analysis , were developed commercially to replace these methods . parameters and methodology necessary to adapt these kits for parameters and methodology necessary to adapt these kits for use with gallbladder bile are presented here . a combination of pretreatment procedures for bile , before radioimmunoassay , permit rapid , reproducible , and accurate measurement of cea levels in gallbladder bile . 
liver transplantation for hepatoblastoma . the american experience . the current role of liver transplantation in treating malignant tumors of the liver is uncertain , except for select histologic types . pooled data on the results of liver transplantation in 12 children with hepatoblastoma is presented here . one half of the children are alive 24 to 70 ( 44 + / - 19 ) months after transplantation with no evidence of recurrence . three patients ( 25 % ) died of tumor recurrence and three ( 25 % ) died of other causes . unifocal and intrahepatic tumors were associated with better prognosis compared to the multifocal tumors and tumors with extrahepatic spread ( p = 0.04 and 0.13 ) . microscopically vascular invasion and the predominance of embryonal and/or anaplastic epithelium were associated with a poor prognosis compared to the tumors with no vascular invasion and with predominantly fetal epithelium ( p = 0.08 and 0.1 ) . it is concluded that continued efforts to treat unresectable hepatoblastomas by liver transplantation is justified and the role of adjuvant chemotherapy in improving the results needs to be better defined . 
adenocarcinoma in barrett 's esophagus . a clinicopathologic study of 65 cases . the natural history of barrett 's esophagus , particularly the prevalence and incidence of malignant changes in it , remains controversial . furthermore the prognosis of surgically treated patients with carcinoma in barrett 's esophagus has not been elucidated fully . to examine these and other issues , the records of 65 patients with carcinoma in barrett 's esophagus presenting at the lahey clinic medical center from january 1973 to january 1989 were reviewed . during this period , 241 patients with documented barrett 's esophagus were seen , for a prevalence of carcinoma of 27 % . adenocarcinoma in barrett 's esophagus accounted for 30 % of the surgically treated carcinomas of the thoracic esophagus during this period . all but four of these patients were men . symptoms of chronic reflux were present in less than one half of the patients and dysphagia was often the presenting symptom . in eight patients the carcinoma was discovered on routine surveillance endoscopy , and in four patients progression of disease from benign columnar epithelium to dysplasia to carcinoma was documented . tumors developed in six patients who had undergone previous antireflux surgery , and in four other patients a second carcinoma developed in residual barrett 's epithelium after a previous resection . of the 65 patients , 61 ( 94 % ) were considered to have operable disease , all of whom underwent resection . two patients ( 3.3 % ) died within 30 days of operation . the resected specimens were staged as follows : stage 0 , 4 ; stage i , 10 ; stage ii , 17 ; stage iii , 25 ; stage iv , 4 . of the resected specimens , 73 % showed areas of dysplasia adjacent to the tumor . the overall adjusted actuarial 5-year survival rate was 23.7 % . the 3-year survival rate was 100 % for patients with stage 0 carcinoma , 85.7 % for patients with stage i carcinoma , 53.6 % for patients with stage iia carcinoma , 45 % for patients with stage iib carcinoma , 25.2 % for patients with stage iii carcinoma , and 0 % for patients with stage iv carcinoma . the premalignant nature of barrett 's esophagus requires endoscopic surveillance to detect early carcinoma because symptoms often occur late or are absent . antireflux surgery does not protect against the development of carcinoma . all of the barrett 's epithelium must be resected because a second carcinoma may develop in residual columnar epithelium . severe dysplasia should be considered an indication for resection . although operability and resectability rates are high , long-term survival is not . early detection is mandatory if long-term survival is to be achieved . 
mastectomy following preoperative chemotherapy . strict operative criteria control operative morbidity . the surgical morbidity associated with aggressive preoperative chemotherapy in 106 patients with advanced primary breast cancer who had chemotherapy followed by mastectomy was examined . these patients were compared with a group of 91 consecutive patients who had mastectomy without preoperative chemotherapy . strict operative criteria were used to determine the timing of mastectomy following chemotherapy . wound infection rates were no different in the preoperative chemotherapy group compared to the mastectomy-alone groups ( 7 % versus 4 % ; p = 0.62 ) . the incidence of wound necrosis was similar ( 11 % versus 6 % ; p = 0.29 ) . seroma formation was decreased significantly in the preoperative chemotherapy group compared to the mastectomy-alone group ( 15 % versus 28 % ; p = 0.04 ) . intensive preoperative chemotherapy did not delay the reinstitution of postoperative treatment ( 30 % versus 20 % ; p = 0.27 ) . however , when delay in instituting postoperative chemotherapy was more than 30 days , there was a significant decrease in overall survival rate ( p = 0.04 ) . this study provides evidence that intensive preoperative chemotherapy and mastectomy can be performed without increased morbidity . furthermore it is important to institute systemic chemotherapy within 30 days of mastectomy to achieve maximum survival . 
a population-based study of functional status and social support networks of elderly patients newly diagnosed with cancer . we assessed the functional status and social support networks of 799 men and women aged 65 years or older newly diagnosed with cancer and living in six new mexico counties . functional limitations included depending on others for transportation ( 33 % ) and mental incompetence or poor recent memory ( 42 % ) . the percentage of patients with functional limitation increased sharply with increasing age . in a substantial number of patients there was also evidence for poor social support networks ; 26.5 % of subjects lived alone and 38.9 % had no children living in the vicinity . in a multiple logistic regression analysis , the predictors of having a poor social support network included non-hispanic white ethnicity , advanced age , low income , and being a recent migrant to the area . subjects with functional limitations were more likely to have poor social support networks than subjects without such limitations . the deleterious combination of impaired functional status and a limited social support network may explain why elderly cancer patients are at increased risk for not receiving appropriate therapy . given the potential complexities involving the evaluation and appropriate treatment of cancer , care must be taken to adequately assess functional status and support mechanisms of older patients , and to provide adequate support to ensure compliance with treatment . 
the origin of epidermal melanocytes . implications for the histogenesis of nevi and melanomas . among the most venerable concepts in dermatopathology is unna 's 19th century notion of abtropfung , ie , that melanocytes drop off from the epidermis to the dermis during the histogenesis of melanocytic tumors . paradoxically , however , unna 's basic premise of an epidermal origin for melanocytes has been seriously questioned for over 40 years , based on experimental evidence favoring a neural crest origin for melanocytes . recent work has strengthened the evidence for a neural crest origin of epidermal melanocytes , and it has been suggested that the concept of abtropfung be replaced by the concept of hochsteigerung . the concept of hochsteigerung holds that melanocytes migrate up from the dermis into the epidermis-not only in normal development , but also during normal tissue maintenance . it now seems likely that the precursor of melanocytes , in both normal and abnormal differentiation , may not be a melanoblast ( a primitive cell committed to melanocytic differentiation ) but rather a pluripotential cell . although axon-investing schwann cells have been the traditional focus as the closest relative of the epidermal melanocyte , recent studies suggest that another nerve sheath cell , the perineural cell , might be a better candidate . these concepts have profound implications for the histogenesis of melanocytic nevi and melanomas . 
recurrent pigmented melanocytic nevus . a benign lesion , not to be mistaken for malignant melanoma . melanocytic nevi that recur after incomplete removal are pigmented lesions that may clinically and pathologically simulate malignant melanoma in situ . five examples of recurrent pigmented melanocytic nevus , with emphasis on light microscopic and immunohistochemical findings , are reported herein . prominent hmb-45 staining in these nevi may cause further confusion in differentiating them from malignant melanoma . the differential diagnosis of recurrent pigmented melanocytic nevi is discussed , with particular emphasis on distinguishing these lesions from malignant melanoma . our immunohistochemical observations indicate that the recurrences most likely develop as a result of proliferation of melanocytes remaining in the epidermis and/or adnexae following incomplete removal . the approach and management of recurrent nevi are also discussed . 
pulmonary tumor embolism to alveolar septal capillaries . a prospective study of 12 cases . pulmonary tumor embolism leading to subacute cor pulmonale has been extensively studied . however , to our knowledge , the involvement of pulmonary alveolar capillaries has not previously been studied in detail . a prospective study was conducted on 112 autopsied patients with cancer to determine the presence of microembolism in the alveolar septal capillaries . fifteen sections of predetermined lung areas were obtained and examined . tumor embolism to alveolar septal capillaries was detected in 12 cases ( 10.7 % ) , with simultaneous involvement of other vascular territories in 11 . seven patients had dyspnea ; four , right ventricular failure ; four , hypertrophy of the right ventricle ; and three , arterial vascular sclerosis . the present data have led us to conclude that pulmonary tumor embolism to alveolar septal capillaries occurs in association with the involvement of arterial or lymphatic vessels and should be analyzed within the context of the study of subacute cor pulmonale . 
mucocelelike tumor of the breast associated with atypical ductal hyperplasia or mucinous carcinoma . a clinicopathologic study of seven cases . we studied seven patients with mucocelelike tumors of the breast , known to be benign lesions that may be confused with mucinous carcinomas of the breast . all patients had a palpable mass . microscopically , the most striking feature was the cystic character of the lesion . the epithelial lining of the cysts was usually flat or cuboidal to low columnar , and mucin pools frequently appeared near the ruptured cysts . three mucocelelike tumors contained a microscopic focus of mucinous carcinoma . the other tumors had areas of atypical ductal hyperplasia containing abundant intraluminal mucinous materials . the mucin was composed predominantly of neutral and nonsulfated acid mucins whose character was identical to that of those in mucinous carcinoma . because all mucocelelike tumors in our series were associated with either atypical ductal hyperplasia or carcinoma and because some mucocelelike tumors may indeed be early mucinous carcinomas of the breast , we recommend examination of the entire specimen and careful clinical follow-up . 
secretory carcinoma of the breast . most studies of secretory carcinoma of the breast have been single case reports or separate analyses of the problem in either children or adults . we studied 10 female patients , aged 5 to 87 years . most patients presented with a palpable mass , often near the areola . five of six tumors were estrogen receptor negative ; three analyzed for progesterone receptor were positive . histologic patterns present in varying proportions were " classic " secretory carcinoma with microacini , abundant secretion with papillary features , and with prominent solid and papillary apocrine features . the tumors had strong reactivity for alpha-lactalbumin , s100 , and carcinoembryonic antigen ( polyclonal ) and were negative for gross cystic disease fluid protein and anti-carcinoembryonic antigen ( monoclonal ) . six patients had mastectomy ; four had local excision ; none had axillary nodal metastases initially . with follow-up of 3 to 72 months ( mean , 47 months ; median , 48 months ) , two patients treated by local excision had local recurrences , one patient had axillary nodal metastases . all patients are alive . comparison of patients under and over 30 years of age revealed one important difference : younger patients had a longer interval between detection and biopsy-30 vs 2 months . treatment recommendations are initial wide excision or quadrantectomy with low axillary dissection in most cases and , in premenarchal patients , strong effort to preserve the breast bud without jeopardizing local control . 
intraluminal crystalloids in struma ovarii . immunohistochemical , dna flow cytometric , and ultrastructural study . we recently encountered a unique case of follicular variant of papillary carcinoma arising in struma ovarii that contained numerous intrafollicular crystalloids . there was no evidence of capsular or vascular invasion or metastases , though the dna content of the papillary carcinoma was aneuploid . in contrast , diploid dna was manifested in the histologically benign thyroid tissue . the nature of the crystalloids and the significance of aneuploid dna content are discussed . 
steroid cell tumor of the ovary in a child . an 8-year-old girl exhibited severe , progressive virilization of 2 years ' duration associated with markedly elevated circulating testosterone concentrations . based on her initial clinical presentation and results of a chemical evaluation , she was originally thought to have non-classic 21-hydroxylase deficiency , but her condition did not respond to corticosteroid therapy . further evaluation confirmed the presence of an ovarian neoplasm . the excised ovary contained an attached gray-brown mass . light microscopic and ultrastructural examination revealed the mass to be a steroid cell tumor . because reinke 's crystals were not present , it was designated to be a steroid cell tumor not otherwise specified . this case represents one of 22 reported cases of steroid cell tumor occurring in children described in the literature , most of which have been associated with heterosexual precocity . to our knowledge , steroid cell tumors are benign when they occur in prepubertal children . although they are rare , steroid cell tumors of the ovary should be considered in cases of childhood virilization . 
gross cystic disease fluid protein-15 in salivary gland tumors . gross cystic disease fluid protein-15 ( gcdfp-15 ) is a 15-kd glycoprotein that is expressed by normal apocrine epithelia and in a majority of breast carcinomas . however , recent studies have demonstrated that this substance is also present in tumors of the salivary glands , sweat glands , and prostate gland . to determine whether the expression of cgdfp-15 might aid in the differential diagnosis of salivary gland lesions , the anti-gcdfp-15 monoclonal antibody d6 was applied to paraffin sections of 133 such neoplasms . benign tumors ( 76 % reactive ) were more often labeled than malignant lesions ( 28 % reactive ) by this antibody ; overall , 53 ( 41 % ) of 133 cases were positive for gcdfp-15 . notably , the tubuloglandular components in 17 ( 81 % ) of 21 pleomorphic adenomas were reactive , but no example of either adenoid cystic carcinoma or polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma were labeled . in contrast , 24 % of adenocarcinomas stained with this antibody . the apparent expression of gcdfp-15 by a spectrum of salivary gland tumors supports their biologic relationship to lesions of the cutaneous apocrine glands and breast . furthermore , the demonstration of this determinant may be of use in suggesting the salivary gland nature of poorly differentiated carcinomas of the head and neck , and it may facilitate the separation of pleomorphic adenoma from histologically similar malignant neoplasms in the salivary glands themselves . 
the tall cell variant of papillary carcinoma of the thyroid gland . comparison with the common form of papillary carcinoma by dna and morphometric analysis . the tall cell variant of papillary carcinoma of the thyroid manifests a more aggressive behavior than the usual form of papillary carcinoma of the thyroid . morphometric analysis of nuclear features and dna analysis may yield information predictive of aggressive behavior . accordingly , the dna content and morphometric features of the neoplastic cells of the tall cell variant were measured and compared with measurements obtained from neoplastic cells of the usual form of papillary carcinoma . six of the 11 tall cell neoplasms were aneuploid , as were four of the eight usual papillary neoplasms . although benign cells were separated from malignant cells in each case , differences between tall and usual papillary carcinoma cells were not observed regarding dna content , chromatin texture , or nuclear size and shape . differences in the clinical behavior of these neoplasms will likely need to be explained on the basis of other characteristics . 
squamous cell carcinoma in situ arising in an ovarian mature cystic teratoma . report of one case with histopathologic , cytogenetic , and flow cytometric dna content analysis . a squamous cell carcinoma in situ arose in an ovarian mature teratoma ( ie , dermoid cyst ) in a 62-year-old woman . flow cytometric dna content analysis of paraffin-embedded in situ carcinoma showed a normal dna content with moderate to high proliferative activity ( s-phase fraction estimate , 16 % to 18 % ) . cytogenetic analysis of the in situ cancer and the benign cystic portion of the tumor revealed a 46 , xx karyotype . in addition , the benign cystic portion of the tumor revealed homozygous chromosomal heteromorphisms , compared with heterozygous markers found in peripheral blood lymphocytes . these results show that this squamous cell carcinoma in situ was euploid and suggest that the mature cystic teratoma was derived from a single germ cell after meiosis i. 
ring neutrophils in plasma cell dyscrasia . sporadic reports in the medical literature concern the significant incidence of neutrophils with ring-shaped nuclei in myeloproliferative disorders . we report our first encounter with ring neutrophils in patients with lymphoproliferative disorders . a significant incidence of ring neutrophils was observed in all of 20 patients with multiple myeloma and in nine of 10 patients with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance . the mean percent of ring neutrophils was 9.5 % ( range , 1.0 % to 28.0 % ) in patients with multiple myeloma , which was significantly greater than in those with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance or in healthy controls . in multiple myeloma , the incidence of ring neutrophils in the pretreatment phase was greater than that in the remission phase . a great deal of overlap was noted between multiple myeloma in the remission phase and monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance . the incidence of ring neutrophils seemed to vary according to disease stage . ring neutrophils may reflect abnormal granulopoiesis in plasma cell dyscrasias . 
extramammary paget 's disease of the bronchial epithelium . we report the first case , to our knowledge , of extramammary paget 's disease of the bronchial epithelium . the tumor displayed paget 's cells scattered within the bronchial epithelium in most of the lesion , but infiltrating into the bronchial submucosa and pulmonary parenchyma with microglandular and papillary patterns in some area . in addition to the histologic findings of coexistence with adenocarcinomatous components , in situ involvement into bronchial glands and ducts by paget 's cells was observed , suggesting that extramammary paget 's disease of the bronchial epithelium may be a variant of pulmonary adenocarcinoma , which is associated with bronchial glands . 
lipomatous hamartoma of the orbit . proliferations of mature adipose tissue , while common in retroperitoneal and subcutaneous sites , rarely occur in the orbit . we describe the clinical , radiographic , and histopathologic findings of a nonencapsulated lipomatous tissue overgrowth of the right orbit in a 35-year-old man . the mass had caused proptosis since childhood and was apparently present since birth . due to the age at onset , the histologic similarity to normal orbital fat , and the lack of encapsulation or choristomatous elements , we propose the term lipomatous hamartoma for this entity . 
lipomatous hypertrophy of the interatrial septum : an unusual intraoperative finding . lipomatous hypertrophy of the interatrial septum was an incidental finding in a man of 45 undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting for unstable angina . he was not overweight and did not have any rhythm disturbances . the diagnosis was made on frozen section . 
tenascin expression in hyperproliferative skin diseases . the expression of tenascin , a recently discovered extracellular matrix glycoprotein , was studied by immunohistochemistry in normal human skin and in a number of skin diseases with epidermal hyperproliferation such as psoriasis , basal cell carcinoma , bowen 's disease and solar keratosis . tenascin expression in the upper dermis of normal skin was found to vary from almost absent to patchy along the basal membrane . staining was continuous and intense around blood vessels , hair follicles and eccrine sweat ducts . in basal cell carcinoma a marked expression of tenascin was found in the tumour stroma , especially adjacent to the basal membrane surrounding the tumour cell nests . in bowen 's disease and solar keratosis , tenascin expression was found in the dermis next to the keratinocytes . in psoriasis the dermal papillae of clinically involved skin were intensely stained and a continuous band of tenascin was present in the upper dermis along the basal membrane . the distribution of tenascin differed from other known extracellular matrix components . 
' high single-dose ' european puva regimen also causes an excess of non-melanoma skin cancer . we report the results of a long-term ( 12.8 years ) follow-up study of the detection of malignant and benign skin tumours in patients with psoriasis , who were treated with puva according to the european , ' high single-dose ' regimen . a total of 13 squamous cell carcinomas ( scc ) and 24 basal cell carcinomas ( bcc ) were diagnosed in 11 of 260 patients . the incidence of both scc and bcc was increased in comparison with the general dutch population . the ratio of scc to bcc in the general population was 1:8 but was 1:2.5 in our study group . a positive correlation was observed between the development of scc and the total uva dosage , the age of the patient at the start of the puva treatment and a history of arsenic use . this dose-related increase in the incidence of scc , reported in studies from the u.s.a. , has not been found in earlier european studies . the average time period between the start of puva therapy and the diagnosis of the first malignant skin tumour was 6.0 years for scc and 4.7 years for bcc . among the 49 benign skin tumours were actinic keratoses , a keratoacanthoma and ' puva keratoses ' , a newly described hyperkeratotic lesion , especially found in puva-treated patients . 
epidermodysplasia verruciformis-associated papillomavirus infection complicating human immunodeficiency virus disease . three males infected with the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) were noted to have extensive flat warts of the face and/or body . in two there were also pityriasis versicolor-like lesions . biopsies showed foamy , basophilic , distended cytoplasm in granular layer keratinocytes , characteristic of the human papillomavirus types seen in epidermodysplasia verruciformis . dna hybridization techniques demonstrated the presence of hpv-type 8 in one patient and hpv 5 and 8 in another . patients with immune suppression due to hiv infection may demonstrate the clinical features of epidermodysplasia verruciformis with the same potentially oncogenic hpv types . 
an adult with common acute lymphoblastic leukaemia ( c-all ) presenting with skin infiltration . a 22-year-old man presented with multiple raised erythematous skin lesions , pyrexia and epistaxis . a diagnosis of common acute lymphoblastic leukaemia ( c-all ) was made by morphological , cytochemical , immunological and cytogenetic examination of peripheral blood and bone marrow . biopsy of the skin revealed leukaemic infiltration by similar cells . 
the t ( 1 ; 19 ) ( q23 ; p13 ) results in consistent fusion of e2a and pbx1 coding sequences in acute lymphoblastic leukemias . the t ( 1 ; 19 ) ( q23 ; p13 ) chromosomal translocation is observed cytogenetically in 25 % of children with pre-b-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) and is associated with an adverse treatment outcome . the t ( 1 ; 19 ) juxtaposes the e2a gene from chromosome 19 with the pbx1 gene on chromosome 1 , leading to the production of fusion transcripts and resultant chimeric proteins that contain the transcriptional-activating motif of e2a and the dna-binding homeodomain of pbx1 . to investigate the molecular nature of e2a/pbx1 fusion in patients with t ( 1 ; 19 ) all we used an rna-based polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) procedure to amplify a portion of the chimeric transcript . we detected e2a/pbx1 fusion transcripts in cells from 97 % ( 37 of 38 ) of cases in which the t ( 1 ; 19 ) had been observed cytogenetically . molecular evidence of e2a/pbx1 fusion transcripts was also observed in a patient in whom a t ( 1 ; 19 ) was not detected cytogenetically and in one patient with subclinical levels of minimal residual disease before overt clinical relapse . in all pcr-positive cases the junction of e2a and pbx1 coding sequences occurred at precisely the same location as demonstrated by hybridization of pcr products with a fusion site-specific detection oligonucleotide . these findings demonstrate the consistent fusion of e2a and pbx1 coding sequences resulting from t ( 1 ; 19 ) and suggest that site-specific fusion of e2a and pbx1 is an important pathogenic event in t ( 1 ; 19 ) all . 
monoclonal antibody-purged autologous bone marrow transplantation therapy for multiple myeloma . eleven patients with plasma cell dyscrasias underwent high-dose chemoradiotherapy and anti-b-cell monoclonal antibody ( moab ) - treated autologous bone marrow transplantation ( abmt ) . the majority of patients had advanced durie-salmon stage myeloma at diagnosis , all were pretreated with chemotherapy , and six had received prior radiotherapy . at the time of abmt , all patients demonstrated good performance status with karnofsky score of 80 % or greater and had less than 10 % marrow tumor cells . eight patients had residual monoclonal marrow plasma cells and 10 patients had paraprotein . following high-dose melphalan and total body irradiation ( tbi ) there were seven complete responses , three partial responses , and one toxic death . granulocytes greater than 500/mm3 were noted at a median of 21 ( range 12 to 46 ) days posttransplant ( pt ) and untransfused platelets greater than 20,000 / mm3 were noted at a median of 23 ( 12 to 53 ) days pt in 10 of the 11 patients . natural killer cells and cytotoxic/suppressor t cells predominated early pt , with return of b cells at 3 months pt and normalization of t4 : t8 ratio at 1 year pt . less than 5 % polyclonal marrow plasma cells were noted in all patients after transplant . three of the seven complete responders have had return of paraprotein , two with myeloma , and have subsequently responded to alpha 2 interferon therapy . eight patients are alive at 18.9 ( 8.9 to 43.1 ) months pt and four remain disease-free at 12.3 , 17.5 , 18.9 , and 29 months pt . this preliminary study confirms that high-dose melphalan and tbi can achieve high response rates without unexpected toxicity in patients who have sensitive disease , and that moab-based purging techniques do not inhibit engraftment . although the follow-up is short - and long-term outcome to be determined , relapses post-abmt in these heavily pretreated patients suggest that abmt or alternative treatment strategies should be evaluated earlier in the disease course . 
adoptive immunotherapy with high-dose interleukin-2 : kinetics of circulating progenitors correlate with interleukin-6 , granulocyte colony-stimulating factor level . immunotherapy with interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) and lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cells results in significant tumor regression in patients with advanced cancer . we have investigated the kinetics of circulating erythroid ( bfu-e ) and granulocytic-macrophage ( cfu-gm ) progenitors after il-2 therapy in 11 cancer patients , mainly affected by metastatic melanoma and renal cell carcinoma . administration of il-2 from day 1 through day 5 constantly induced a dramatic decrease of the number of circulating bfu-e and cfu-gm , which then showed a striking rebound ( up to values fourfold and sevenfold higher , respectively , than the pretherapy levels ) on discontinuation of il-2 , ie , from day 5 through day 10 . a similar kinetic pattern was observed during and after the second cycle of il-2 administration . 3 [ h ] - thymidine killing experiments showed that the cycling activity of the progenitors was virtually unmodified in the rebound phases . to explore the mechanism ( s ) underlying this kinetic pattern , we have analyzed the plasma concentration of several hematopoietic growth factors , including il-1 beta , il-3 , il-4 , il-6 , granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) , g-csf , and erythropoietin ( ep ) . no modifications in the levels of il-3 , gm-csf , or il-1 beta were observed , whereas a pronounced increase of il-6 and g-csf concentration was monitored , starting at day 3 and peaking at day 5 of treatment ( a parallel , but modest , increase of ep level was also observed ) . the elevation of il-6 and g-csf concentration is directly correlated with and may , at least in part , underlie the subsequent rebound of circulating hematopoietic progenitors . furthermore , the increase in il-4 level observed at day 10 of therapy may mediate the eosinophilia gradually starting at this stage of treatment . 
ki-b5 : a monoclonal antibody unrelated to cd45 recognizes normal and neoplastic human b cells in routine paraffin sections . in the search for immunoreagents appropriate for the histopathologic diagnosis of malignant b-cell lymphomas in routinely processed paraffin sections , a new monoclonal antibody , ki-b5 , was generated using a high-grade b-cell lymphoma as the immunogene . ki-b5 is a mouse igg1/kappa that recognizes five protein fractions of about 84 , 82 , 55 , 48 , and 27 kd after biosynthetic radiolabeling and immunoprecipitation . protein fractions with the molecular weights of approximately 84 and 82 kd were expressed on the cell surface and show that ki-b5 is probably unrelated to cd45 . it was possible through electron microscopy to visualize the membrane-bound portion of ki-b5 . extensive immunohistologic studies on normal human tissue and various neoplasias demonstrated the high specificity of ki-b5 to normal human b cells and a minor subgroup of plasma cells . except for ml-2 , which is a myelomonocytic human cell line , ki-b5 exclusively recognized the b-cell lineage , including eb-3 , ball-1 , and nalm-1 . all carcinomas , sarcomas , and malignant melanomas tested with ki-b5 were negative . although normal granulocytes and monocytes were constantly negative , three of eight myelomonocytic leukemias coreacted with this antibody . eight of the 57 t-cell lymphomas studied were positive to ki-b5 . five were classified as lymphoblastic , two represented t8-cll , and one was classified as immunoblastic t-cell lymphoma . only 3 of 126 cases of b-cell lymphoma , including rare types not considered in the current classifications , were negative to ki-b5 . plasmacytomas were also negative , except for one case . irrespective of the cases of lymphoblastic lymphoma and plasmacytoma , ki-b5 represents a new monoclonal antibody appropriate for the diagnosis and immunophenotyping of malignant lymphomas in routinely processed paraffin sections . 
an epitope on the transferrin receptor preferentially exposed during tumor progression in human lymphoma is close to the ligand binding site . we have previously reported an anti-transferrin receptor antibody , trump , which was originally selected for its ability to discriminate low - and high-grade lymphomas . this feature was distinct from the other anti-transferrin receptor antibodies such as okt9 . in the present study , further immunochemical analysis was performed to define the nature of the antigenic site recognized by the trump antibody . trump was found to block the binding of transferrin both to solubilized and to surface transferrin receptors ; conversely , transferrin could block the binding of trump only to surface transferrin receptors . therefore , the epitope recognized by trump is near but not identical to the transferrin binding site . stimulation of peripheral blood lymphocytes with phytohemagglutinin induced both the okt9 epitope and the trump epitope , but 12-phorbol 13 myristate acetate induced only the okt9 epitope . growth of some cell lines was inhibited by trump but not by okt9 . no structural difference was found between transferrin receptor molecules reactive with trump and those reactive with okt9 . in support of these results , trump was able to immunoprecipitate transferrin receptor molecules solubilized from low-grade follicular lymphoma cells even though it did not bind to the receptors exposed on the surface of these cells . these findings imply that low-grade lymphoma cells differ from high-grade lymphoma cells not in the structures of their transferrin receptors but in their exposure of the molecule on the cell surface . 
inactivation of the retinoblastoma gene in human lymphoid neoplasms . the absence of wild type retinoblastoma ( rb ) gene expression in a wide variety of human solid tumors suggests an etiologic role for this tumor suppressor gene in human cancer . we have evaluated the involvement of rb gene inactivation in the pathogenesis and progression of human lymphoma and leukemia . we examined the genomic configuration and transcription of the rb gene in cultured cell lines and primary cases of t - and b-cell lymphomas and leukemias . by southern analysis , abnormalities of the rb locus were identified in 1 of 5 t-cell acute lymphoblastic lymphoma ( t-all ) cell lines , 1 of 26 primary cases of t-all , 1 of 40 primary cases of chronic lymphocytic lymphoma/well-differentiated lymphoma ( cll/wdl ) , and 1 of 15 primary cases of intermediately differentiated lymphoma ( idl ) . by northern analysis , markedly reduced or abnormal expression of the rb gene was identified in 2 of 5 t-all cell lines , 1 of 7 primary cases of t-all , 1 of 5 primary cases of cll/wdl , and 1 of 6 primary cases of idl . these findings show that rb gene inactivation can be associated with a broad range of lymphoid neoplasms and that loss of the tumor suppressor function of rb may influence the pathogenesis and progression of lymphoma/leukemia . 
the beta globin 3 ' enhancer element confers regulated expression on the human gamma globin gene in the human embryonic-fetal erythroleukemia cell line k562 . we have constructed fusion genes comprised of gamma and beta globin elements and globin sequences linked to neomycin resistance ( neor ) genes to define the cis acting sequences responsible for developmental stage-specific expression and induction of fetal globin genes in embryonic-fetal erythroleukemia k562 cells . the results indicate that the gamma promoter is required for proper initiation of transcription . however , the accumulation of gamma globin transcripts in response to hemin induction requires the additional presence of either gamma intervening sequence 2 or the 3 ' enhancer element of the beta globin gene . thus , the gamma promoter may provide the elements for developmental stage-specific gene expression during fetal life . by contrast , the beta 3 ' enhancer is erythroid-specific but not developmental stage - or gene-specific . 
detection of residual leukemia after bone marrow transplant for chronic myeloid leukemia : role of polymerase chain reaction in predicting relapse . we used the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) to detect residual leukemia-specific mrna in blood and marrow from 37 patients in complete hematologic and cytogenetic remission after allogeneic bone marrow transplant ( bmt ) for chronic myeloid leukemia ( cml ) . our two-step pcr method involved the use of " nested primers " in the second step and could detect one k562 cell diluted into 10 ( 5 ) normal cells . elaborate measures were taken to exclude false-positive and false-negative results . in nine patients whose blood and marrow were studied simultaneously the results were concordant ( two positive and seven negative ) . twenty-three patients transplanted in chronic phase ( cp ) with unmanipulated donor marrow were studied . blood cells from nine of these patients were studied 3 to 6 months post-bmt and six were pcr positive ; three were negative on subsequent studies . blood cells from 18 patients studied between 8 months and 8 years post-bmt were all pcr negative . nine patients transplanted in cp with t-cell-depleted marrow cells were studied . blood from five was positive 3 to 24 months post-bmt ; blood from five was negative 3 to 6 years post-bmt . four patients no longer in first cp were studied after bmt with unmanipulated donor marrow . blood from all four was positive 5 to 19 months post-bmt . based on the known clinical results of transplant in these three cohorts we conclude that pcr may be positive within 6 months of bmt in patients who can expect long-lasting remission , whereas pcr positivity later after bmt may indicate that the probability of cure is reduced . thus , the technique may prove useful for early assessment of new transplant protocols that might inadvertently increase the risk of relapse . 
terminal cancer care and patients ' preference for place of death : a prospective study . objective -- to assess the preference of terminally ill patients with cancer for their place of final care . design -- prospective study of randomly selected patients with cancer from hospital and the community who were expected to die within a year . patients expected to live less than two months were interviewed at two week intervals ; otherwise patients were interviewed monthly . their main carer was interviewed three months after the patient 's death . setting -- district general hospital , hospices , and patients ' homes . main outcome measure -- stated preferred place of final care ; actual place of death ; reason for final hospital admission for those in hospital ; community care provision required for home care . results -- of 98 patients approached , 84 ( 86 % ) agreed to be interviewed , of whom 70 ( 83 % ) died during the study and 59 ( 84 % ) stated a preferred place of final care : 34 ( 58 % ) wished to die at home given existing circumstances , 12 ( 20 % ) in hospital , 12 ( 20 % ) in a hospice , and one ( 2 % ) elsewhere . their own home was the preferred place of care for 17 ( 94 % ) of the patients who died there , whereas of the 32 patients who died in hospital 22 ( 69 % ) had stated a preference to die elsewhere . had circumstances been more favourable 67 % ( 41 ) of patients would have preferred to die at home , 16 % ( 10 ) in hospital , and 15 % ( 9 ) in hospice . conclusion -- with a limited increase in community care 50 % more patients with cancer could be supported to die at home , as they and their carers would prefer . 
upper tract tumours following cystectomy for bladder cancer . is routine intravenous urography worthwhile ? the incidence and presentation of upper tract tumours were studied in 180 patients who had previously undergone cystectomy for transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder . intravenous urography was performed routinely 3 months after cystectomy , 1 year later and at 3-yearly intervals thereafter . ten patients developed upper tract tumours ; 1 presented with loin pain and the remainder with haematuria . six patients underwent nephroureterectomy and 5 of them lived for at least 4 years ; 4 were inoperable and only 1 survived longer than 6 months . in this series , all patients with upper tract tumours presented with symptoms and routine intravenous urography failed to detect any asymptomatic lesions . routine radiological assessment of the upper tracts to detect tumours is not justified following cystectomy . 
transitional cell carcinoma of the upper urinary tract : prognostic variables and post-operative recurrences . in a retrospective study of 198 patients with transitional cell carcinoma of the upper urinary tract , post-operative recurrences developed as contralateral tumours in 2.5 % , in the ureteric stump after conservative resection in 19 % and in the bladder in 36.4 % . upper tract recurrences resembled the primary tumours in terms of grade and stage ; of the bladder tumours , 89 % were similar in grade and 72 % similar in stage to the primary tumours . age , sex , grade and stage had no effect on the number of bladder recurrences , but ureteric tumours had significantly more recurrences than renal pelvicaliceal tumours . sex , bladder recurrences and site of primary tumours did not influence survival . thus grade and stage of the primary tumour were the only predictive variables of the final outcome . 
pattern of urological malignancy in zambia . a hospital-based histopathological study . the pattern of urological malignancy among the indigenous population of zambia ( determined on the basis of histopathological reports from a major national hospital during an 8-year period ) is presented . a total of 6514 malignancies were observed , of which 784 ( 12 % ) were of urological origin . bladder carcinoma , predominantly squamous type , was the commonest urological tumour ( 51 % ) , followed by carcinoma of the prostate ( 26 % ) , carcinoma of the penis ( 18 % ) , renal tumours ( 4.3 % ) and testicular malignancy ( 0.7 % ) . in nearly 32 % of the bladder tumours , bilharzial ova were demonstrated histopathologically . nephroblastoma accounted for 70 % of the renal tumours and from a total of 7 cases of testicular tumours 5 were embryonal carcinoma and 2 seminoma . a brief reference is made to the pattern and aetiology of urological malignancies in some neighbouring countries . 
clinical significance of the " palpable mass " in patients with muscle-infiltrating bladder cancer undergoing cystectomy after pre-operative radiotherapy . between 1976 and 1985 , 132 patients with t2/t3/t4a bladder cancer underwent cystectomy after pre-operative radiotherapy ( 46 gy : 67 patients ; 20 gy : 65 patients ) . after a median time of 41 months , 62 patients were alive ; 51 had died from recurrent bladder cancer and 19 from intercurrent disease without recurrence of their malignancy . distant metastases developed in 40 patients , accompanied in 5 cases by local recurrence . local recurrence was the first sign of relapse in 11 patients . in 3 patients the localisation of the relapse remained unknown . the corrected 5-year survival rate was 60 % . t category and a palpable bladder tumour were independent pre-treatment prognostic factors in a cox regression analysis , together with the interval between initial diagnosis and cystectomy . the presence of a palpable tumour before the start of treatment was associated with a particularly poor prognosis in t3/t4a tumours , whereas the survival of patients with non-palpable t3/t4a tumours was similar to that of patients with t2 bladder cancer . another important prognostic factor was post-irradiation stage reduction ( no residual muscle infiltration in the cystectomy specimen ) . significantly more patients with non-palpable bladder tumours experienced post-radiation stage reduction than did those with a palpable tumour . however , the prognostic value of stage reduction was statistically significant only in patients with palpable bladder tumours . 
adjuvant topical chemotherapy versus immunotherapy in primary superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder . in a prospective randomised controlled study , the efficacy of ethoglucid was compared with that of keyhole-limpet haemocyanin ( klh ) in preventing recurrent tumours following transurethral resection of primary superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder . patients treated with ethoglucid ( n = 39 ) received 0.565 g ( 1 % solution ) ethoglucid weekly for 6 weeks and then monthly for 1 year . patients treated with klh ( n = 38 ) were immunised subcutaneously with 1 mg klh ; bladder instillations of 30 mg were then given weekly for 6 weeks and thereafter monthly for 1 year . the recurrence rates , disease-free intervals and tumour progression rates were evaluated . the end-point of the study was either progression in stage or grade or more than 1 recurrence during the observation period . the minimum length of follow-up was 1 year . the recurrence rates , mean disease-free intervals and progression rates in the 2 groups showed no statistically significant differences . 
short-term radiotherapy as palliative treatment in patients with transitional cell bladder cancer . we report the results and complications of treatment with palliative , short-term radiotherapy in 162 elderly or disabled patients . improvement in tumour-associated symptoms was noted in 75 of these patients and 72 survived for more than a year . those who responded to radiotherapy had a 5-year cancer-free survival rate of 58 % compared with 4 % in patients who did not respond to treatment . survival was also affected by stage and indications for radiotherapy . in 85 patients without severe symptoms , where the tumour was judged curable but the patient was unsuitable for a full course of radiotherapy , the 5-year cancer-free survival rate was 21 % , which is in accordance with what can be achieved with full-course radiotherapy ; 42 % had various minor acute side effects . the 5-year late complication rate was 7 % . 
indications for the surgical treatment of osteomas of the frontal and ethmoid sinuses . sixty-one patients with an osteoma of the frontal or ethmoid sinuses have been studied . the following indications for surgical removal of these osteomas are suggested : osteomas extending beyond the boundaries of the frontal sinus , if enlarging , if localized in the region adjacent to the nasofrontal duct , if signs of chronic sinusitis are present , osteomas of the ethmoid sinuses , irrespective of their size and if patients with osteomas complain of headache and other causes of headache have been excluded . the operation of choice is the osteoplastic flap operation . 
the reliability of palpation in the assessment of tumours . there is now a joint uicc-ajc classification for cervical lymph nodes based mainly on the size of the nodes . there is a recognized error in palpation , not only for detecting the presence of tumour but also its size . this study used an animal tumour model system to compare the ability of 6 independent observers of varying experience to detect and stage superficially transplanted growths . a preclinical medical student was as good as a consultant ent surgeon in predicting the presence of tumour but the ability to stage tumours accurately was related to experience . whilst the most experienced observers accurately estimated the size of tumours less than 2 cm , they were less accurate for larger ( greater than 2 cm ) tumours which were constantly understaged . this phenomenon may have important clinical implications particularly related to current nodal staging criteria . 
cyclic-amp binding proteins in the head and neck . results are presented of a preliminary study in which camp binding activity was measured in 34 specimens from a variety of head and neck sites . a wide range of camp binding protein levels was detected in all tissues assessed . there appeared to be a subgroup of parotid adenomas with increased camp binding activity . the biological significance of these proteins remains to be determined and their relationship to tumour growth in the head and neck is likely to be complex . 
occupational exposure and head and neck carcinoma . an epidemiological case-control study was conducted to investigate occupational risk factors in cancers of the upper respiratory and digestive tract . cases were men with squamous cell carcinoma of the oropharynx ( 667 ) , hypopharynx ( 348 ) , glottis ( 246 ) , supraglottis ( 219 ) , epilarynx ( 204 ) , and 4 subsites of the oral cavity ( 787 ) . controls were healthy patients or patients with cancer of another site or another histological type ( 147 men ) . past occupational exposures of cases and controls were compared . the analysis was performed independently for each site of cancer , controlling for age , amount and type of alcohol and tobacco consumption , and state of dentition . results showed that cancer of the supraglottis was associated with exposure to oil and grease ( odds ratio = 2.4 ; 95 % confidence interval 1.0-5 .8 ) , and with exposure to cement ( odds ratio = 4.2 ; 95 % confidence interval = 1.1-16 .4 ) . cancer of the glottis was also associated with exposure to dye ( odds ratio = 6.4 ; 95 % confidence interval = 0.7-56 .6 ) . exposure to flour occurred more frequently among controls than among patients with pharyngeal or oral cancer . this might reflect an association between this occupational exposure and some particular types of cancer included in the control group . 
nuclear medicine in otolaryngology . nuclear medicine has a distinct role to play in otolaryngological practice . accurate diagnosis of endocrine conditions is now possible using precise in-vitro hormone measurement . specific clinical questions can be answered using in-vivo investigations . 99mtco-4 / 123i scintigraphy is used to evaluate thyrotoxicosis and solitary thyroid nodules . 99mtc/201t1 subtraction scanning is of value in the preoperative localization of parathyroid adenomas and 99mtco-4 is particularly useful in assessing salivary and lachrymal gland function and drainage . 99mtc-mdp bone scanning is useful in the evaluation of osteomyelitis , temporomandibular joint dysfunction , bone graft viability and some facial fractures . the role of radioisotopes in the management of differentiated and medullary carcinoma of the thyroid is now well established . although there are many other agents available to image head and neck cancer , few can actually achieve the required diagnostic sensitivity and specificity . the introduction of monoclonal antibodies into routine imaging has been hampered by distinct practical problems and the search is now on for more sensitive non-specific diagnostic agents . it is now possible to evaluate new 99mtc labelled tumour-imaging agents using animal tumour model systems and the use of radioactivity in all aspects of otolaryngological research adds an extra quantitive dimension . together with spect , and the introduction of positron emission tomography ( pet ) to image the physiology of normal tissues and tumours , the use of radionuclide investigations can lead only to an increase in ent diagnostic sensitivity and specificity and , subsequently , to an overall improvement in the way we diagnose , stage and treat head and neck cancer . 
epidemiology of primary osteogenic sarcoma in the san francisco bay area of california . this epidemiologic study represents an analysis of all registered new cases of osteogenic sarcoma ( ogs ) during the 14-year period from january 1973 to december 1986 in five san francisco bay counties . inclusion into the study was limited to patients who were diagnosed in the first three decades of life and who were residents within the bay area at the time of diagnosis . to determine epidemiologic characteristics of ogs , records on 96 patients from the bay area resources for cancer control with histologically proven ogs were reviewed . the incidence of ogs was influenced by age , gender , and race , but none of the effects were statistically significant . a geographic variation in the incidence of ogs was discovered , although it was not statistically significant . the results are presented in support of a continued search for environmental variables that may someday reveal the etiologic factors of ogs . 
spontaneous necrosis in osteosarcoma . the percentage of necrosis in a primary osteosarcoma after the patient has received preoperative chemotherapy is prognostic and is usually used to select subsequent chemotherapy . however , the percentage of necrosis that occurs spontaneously , without preoperative chemotherapy , has not been adequately studied . the examination of histologic macrosections of 76 osteosarcomas from patients who had not received preoperative treatment and of 20 patients who had received preoperative chemotherapy revealed a significant difference in the percentage of necrosis . there was minimal spontaneous necrosis , but necrosis after preoperative chemotherapy was usually extensive . the larger the tumor , the greater the percentage of spontaneous necrosis ; however , size did not correlate with the percentage of necrosis with preoperative chemotherapy . survival among those patients who did not receive preoperative treatment correlated with the size and percentage of necrosis . necrosis in an osteosarcoma in a patient who has received preoperative chemotherapy can be considered the result of chemotherapy and not a spontaneous event . 
solitary fibromatosis of bone . a rare variant of congenital generalized fibromatosis . congenital generalized fibromatosis is part of the spectrum of the fibromatoses of infancy and childhood . the lesions are usually multiple and fibrous in nature . they may appear in virtually every organ outside the central nervous system . congenital generalized fibromatosis can be limited to the skeleton and rarely manifests itself as a solitary bone lesion . solitary osseous lesions often behave differently than multiple osseous lesions . solitary lesions often do not regress without treatment and can have a high incidence of recurrence with less than marginal excision . multiple osseous lesions often regress without treatment . 
assessment of " squamous cell carcinoma antigen " ( scc ) as a marker of epidermoid carcinoma of the anal canal . we measured squamous cell carcinoma antigen ( scc ) in epidermoid carcinoma of the anal canal in 66 patients . samples were taken at diagnosis , before treatment , and during follow-up ; 353 samples were analyzed . the positive threshold was taken as 2 ng/ml . at diagnosis , the sensitivity of the marker was 44 percent and its specificity 92 percent . in our series , the pretherapeutic level of scc does not correlate with t as in papillons ' clinical staging system , but it does correlate with nodal invasion ( p less than 0.05 ) . it is of no prognostic value at the time of diagnosis . during follow-up , at relapse the level of scc is 20.3 + / - 43 ng/ml . this increase is significant ( p less than 0.01 ) : the sensitivity of the marker is 77 percent . in patients who have relapsed , development of the illness correlates with the level of scc , which is of prognostic value ( p less than 0.01 ) . in conclusion , the level of scc should be associated with the clinical follow-up of patients with epidermoid carcinoma of the anal canal . 
anti-tumor x anti-lymphocyte heteroconjugates augment colon tumor cell lysis in vitro and prevent tumor growth in vivo . cross-linking an anti-tumor antibody , specific for tumor cell surface antigens , and an anti-lymphocyte antibody , specific for the t lymphocyte receptor complex ( tcr/cd3 ) , produces a heteroconjugate that can direct t cells to lyse tumor cells . we tested the ability of anti-tumor x anti-lymphocyte ( cd3 ) heteroconjugates to redirect human peripheral blood lymphocytes ( pbls ) to lyse human colon cancer cells in cytotoxicity assays and in a murine colon tumor model . we demonstrated in vitro , that cultured human pbls alone produced low levels of tumor lysis , but pbls treated with anti-tumor x anti-cd3 heteroconjugates produced significantly greater tumor cell lysis ( p less than 0.0025 ) . similarly , nude mice injected with ls174t human colon cancer cells and treated with cultured human pbls and anti-tumor x anti-cd3 heteroconjugates survived significantly longer than saline control mice ( p less than 0.01 ) , or mice treated with pbls alone ( p less than 0.01 ) , or heteroconjugates alone ( p less than 0.05 ) . f ( ab ' ) 2 heteroconjugates were equally as effective in prolonging animal survival , but irrelevant heteroconjugates and monoclonal anti-tumor antibodies showed no therapeutic benefit . anti-tumor x anti-cd3 heteroconjugates may represent an effective approach to tumor-specific cellular immunotherapy . 
polyamine levels in healthy and tumor tissues of patients with colon adenocarcinoma . tissue polyamine levels were determined in patients with colon adenocarcinoma to try to identify biochemical indicators able to characterize the growth and the metabolism of human solid tumors . polyamine content was determined in the tumor and in the " healthy " mucosa sampled at different distances within the resection edges . for each patient the polyamine content in the tumor was compared with that in the mucosa . the results demonstrated that the spermidine concentration was higher in the tumor than in the healthy mucosa ; the differences were statistically significant . however , spermine in the tumor increased to a lesser degree . no statistically significant differences were observed among these mucosae at different localizations , but the spermine concentration in the mucosa after the tumor showed values very close to those of the neoplasia . 
crohn 's disease and adenocarcinoma of the intestinal tract . report of four cases . four patients with intestinal adenocarcinoma complicating crohn 's disease are reported . the youngest of the four patients was a 21-year-old female with a 9-year history of crohn 's disease of the terminal ileum as well as of the entire colon . she developed mucus-producing moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma in the cecum . of the remaining three patients with crohn 's disease , one presented an adenocarcinoma in the ascending colon , one in the rectum and the remaining one in the duodenum . all three colorectal adenocarcinomas originated in areas of high-grade dysplasia and all four in areas with chronic transmural inflammation . the review of the literature indicates that a total of 174 small and large bowel cancers occurring in crohn 's disease have been recorded ( including the four reported herein ) . the vast majority of the reported cases have been found in the north american subcontinent . only in a few instances were bowel adenocarcinoma and crohn 's disease observed in the european continent . it is therefore remarkable that three of our four cases were seen within a period of 12 months . interestingly , six patients having colorectal adenocarcinoma in association with crohn 's disease were recently reported from a single hospital in england . the question therefore arises whether our cases and those reported recently from england are unrelated and merely coincidental or whether carcinomas are now also affecting european cd patients . if the latter is the case , the surveillance policy for patients with cd should be reconsidered at this hospital . 
isolation and characterization of normal and neoplastic colonic epithelial cell populations . the aim of the present study was to characterize rat mucosal colonic cells harvested from the crypt continuum during differentiation and dimethylhydrazine-induced neoplasia . the collection of colonocytes was performed using a modified nonenzymatic isolation procedure based on ca2 + chelation and gentle mechanical dissociation . light and electron microscopy histomorphological examinations , [ 3h ] thymidine incorporation studies , and activity gradients of alkaline phosphatase , thymidine kinase , and cytoskeleton-associated protein tyrosine kinase indicated that distinct cell populations were harvested from the various crypt regions in a temporal sequence mirroring their zonal and functional distribution in situ . after dimethylhydrazine administration , marked protein tyrosine kinase activity was noted in colonic cells harvested from upper crypt zones . the misplaced and sustained kinase activity preceded the actual polyp or tumor formation . this observation is consistent with the expansion of colonic proliferative compartments beyond allowable boundaries during the preneoplastic period . companion studies in human colonic epithelial specimens corroborate the findings observed in normal and transformed murine colonocytes . it is believed that the characterization and manipulation of colonocytes using our in vitro model will provide important clues to the molecular events underlying the differentiation program and carcinogenic process in the colonic cell . 
ampullary hamartoma : endoscopic diagnosis and treatment . this study shows a patient who presented with intermittent biliary tract obstruction caused by ampullary hamartoma . endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography showed a large ulcerated papilla and dilated biliary ducts . tissue diagnosis was established by a large particle biopsy obtained with a snare . the patient underwent a successful endoscopic sphincterotomy and has remained symptom free for 4 years . 
prosthetic arthroplasty of the knee after resection of a sarcoma in the proximal end of the tibia . a report of sixteen cases . the results of a specific type of prosthetic reconstruction of the knee ( total replacement arthroplasty ) after resection of a sarcoma of the proximal part of the tibia in sixteen patients were retrospectively reviewed . the diagnosis was stage-iib osteogenic sarcoma in nine patients , stage-iib malignant fibrous histiocytoma in three patients , and stage-ib sarcoma of various types in four patients . the length of tibial resection ranged from 100 to 257 millimeters . of the eleven patients who were available for functional examination ( mean duration of follow-up , sixty-three months ) , three patients had an excellent result , seven had a good result , and one had a fair result . of the five patients who were not available for functional testing , one who was doing well was lost to follow-up at eighty months , one had died of metastases at sixteen months , and three had had a secondary amputation for infection or for loosening of the prosthesis . 
a human cd5 + b cell clone that secretes an idiotype-specific high affinity igm monoclonal antibody . we previously demonstrated the occurrence of a naturally arisen human anti-idiotypic b cell clone , that we transformed with ebv ( ebv383 ) . we show evidence that ebv383 not only expresses the cd5 surface ag , but also contains the 2.7-kb mrna transcript encoding this protein . in addition , we show the presence of the 3.6-kb mrna precursor . most ig produced by cd5 + b cells are polyreactive natural igm antibodies encoded by unmutated copies of germline vh genes . however , in this study we present data demonstrating the monoreactive high affinity character of the anti-idiotypic antibody ( mab383 ) produced by ebv383 . these data are in agreement with our previous observations , showing that the vh chain of mab383 is encoded by an extensive somatically mutated vhv gene in a way that is consistent with an ag-driven immune response . a possible role for this remarkable anti-idiotypic antibody in the maintenance of b cell memory is discussed . 
mhc-restricted recognition of autologous melanoma by tumor-specific cytotoxic t cells . evidence for restriction by a dominant hla-a allele . autologous melanoma-specific ctl recognize a common tumor-associated ag ( taa ) in the context of hla class i antigens . we have demonstrated that hla-a2 can be a restricting ag and , in t cell lines homozygous for hla-a2 , that ctl can be generated by stimulation with hla-a2 allogeneic melanomas . in the current study , we have investigated t cell lines from patients who are heterozygous at hla-a region locus , to determine the relative importance of each a-region allele in this mhc-restricted recognition of tumor . we have shown that hla-a1 can be a restricting ag , and that allogeneic melanomas expressing hla-a1 can substitute for the autologous tumor in the generation of hla-a1-restricted ctl . however , when t cell lines express both hla-a1 and hla-a2 , the hla-a2 allele governed restriction of the melanoma taa . three autologous-stimulated hla-a1 , a2 ctl lines all demonstrated restriction by the hla-a2 allele , when examined in cytotoxicity assays , cold-competition assays , and proliferation assays . there was no evidence of restriction by the second hla-allele , hla-a1 . although the autologous-stimulated ctl use a single a-region allele for tumor recognition , the autologous hla-a1 , a2 tumors are lysed by both hla-a1-restricted and hla-a2-restricted ctl . the dominance of restricting alleles was further demonstrated when hla-matched allogeneic melanomas were used as the stimulating tumor to generate tumor-specific ctl . stimulation of the heterozygous ( hla-a1 , a2 ) lymphocytes with hla-a2-matched allogeneic melanomas resulted in ctl specific for the autologous tumor , and restricted by the hla-a2 ag . however , stimulation with an hla-a1-matched allogeneic melanoma failed to induce tumor-specific ctl restricted by the hla-a1 ag . the data suggest there is a dominance of hla-a region ag at the level of the t cell , such that only one is restricting in the recognition of the autologous melanoma . at the level of the tumor , however , the taa is expressed in the context of both hla-a region alleles . we can generate specific ctl from lymph node cells or pbl and hla-a region matched allogeneic melanomas ; however , because most patients are heterozygous at the hla-a region locus , an understanding of the dominant restricting alleles must be obtained so that an appropriately matched allogeneic melanoma can be selected . 
cytotoxic t cell clones isolated from ovarian tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes recognize multiple antigenic epitopes on autologous tumor cells . ctl clones were developed from tumor infiltrating lymphocytes ( til ) from the ascites of a patient with ovarian carcinoma by coculture of til with autologous tumor cells and subsequent cloning in the presence of autologous tumor cells . these ctl clones expressed preferential cytolytic activity against autologous tumor cells but not against allogeneic ovarian tumor cells and the nk-sensitive cell line k562 . the cytolytic activity of these ctl against autologous tumors was inhibited by anti-tcr ( wt31 mab ) , anti-hla class i , and anti-cd3 mab but not by the nk function antibody leu 11b . cloning of the autologous tumor cells in vitro revealed that the ctl clones of the ovarian til expressed differential abilities to lyse autologous tumor cell clones . the specificity analysis of these autologous tumor specific ctl suggested that they recognize several antigenic determinants present on the ovarian tumor cells . our results indicate the presence of at least three antigenic epitopes on the tumor cells ( designated ova-1a , ova-1b , and ova-1c ) , one of which ( ova-1c ) is unstable . these determinants are present either simultaneously or separately , and six types of ovarian clones can be distinguished on the basis of their expression . these results indicate that ctl of the til detect intratumor antigenic heterogeneity . the novel heterogeneity identified within the ovarian tumor cells in this report may be of significance for understanding cellular immunity in ovarian cancer and developing adoptive specific immunotherapeutic approaches in ovarian cancer . 
evidence for the functional binding in vivo of tumor rejection antigens to antigen-presenting cells in tumor-bearing hosts . spleen cells of balb/c mice bearing a syngeneic csa1m fibrosarcoma were treated with anti-thy-1 .2 antibody plus c , yielding a t cell-depleted , apc-containing fraction . the apc-containing fraction was first tested for its capacity to present exogenous modified-self or another tumor ( meth a ) ag after in vitro pulsing . the results showed comparable ag-presenting capacities to those obtained by apc-containing fraction from normal spleen cells , indicating that apc function is not affected in tumor-bearing mice . we next examined whether apc from csa1m-bearing mice bind endogenously generated csa1m tumor ag onto its surfaces to stimulate tumor-specific t cells . five rounds of inoculation of apc-containing fraction from csa1m-bearing mice without further in vitro pulsing resulted in the induction of potent anti-csa1m immune resistance . the involvement of anti-csa1m t cells in the induction of anti-csa1m immunity was excluded by the fact that the in vivo immunity was excluded by the fact that the in vivo immunity was delivered by thy-1 + cell-depleted , but not by thy-1 + cell-enriched fractions of spleen cells from csa1m-bearing mice . moreover , the failure of sephadex g10-passed spleen cells to deliver anti-csa1m resistance demonstrated the absolute requirement of apc for inducing the in vivo immunity . finally , this in vivo resistance was found to be tumor specific , because apc fractions from csa1m-bearing and meth a-bearing balb/c mice induced immune resistance selective against the corresponding tumor cell challenge . these results indicate that apc from tumor-bearing hosts can not only exert unaffected apc function against exogenous ag , but also function to present tumor ag generated endogenously in the tumor-bearing state and to produce tumor-specific immunity in vivo . 
multiple spinal epidural metastases ; an unexpectedly frequent finding . in a prospective study , patients with known malignant disease who were suspected of having a spinal epidural metastasis , had myelography which was not confined to the clinically suspected site , but included at least the whole lumbar and thoracic spinal canal . fifty four of the 106 myelograms revealed at least one epidural metastasis . twelve of these 54 myelograms showed two separate lesions , and four myelograms showed three separate lesions . in all 16 cases with multiple lesions at least one of the lesions was asymptomatic at the time of the diagnosis . it is concluded that multiple spinal epidural metastases are of common occurrence and occur in about one third of the cases . this finding may have important clinical implications . examination of the spinal canal for epidural metastases should not be confined to the clinically suspected site , but should include as extensive an area as possible of the spinal canal , whatever technique is to be used . 
touch and surgical division of the anterior quadrant of the spinal cord . an investigation was carried out to determine whether tactile sensibility was affected by anterolateral cordotomy . there were 65 patients who had cordotomies for painful forms of cancer . thirty eight had necropsy examination with histological investigation of the spinal cord . no form of mechanoreception was removed in any of the 65 patients and in the majority no forms of tactile sensibility were altered by division of the pathways in the anterolateral and anterior columns . in no case was graphaesthesia affected . knowledge of joint position and movement and awareness of vibration was normal in 62 of the 65 patients . but information carried by these anterolateral pathways does reach neural levels of consciousness , for with total lesions of the posterior columns , previously reported , touch and pressure are still felt . itch was removed by division of the anterolateral pathways . although the posterior columns are essential for discrimination in mechanoreception , discrimination may be disturbed by lesions of the anterolateral pathways , notably two-point discrimination . the evidence on the pathways essential for conveying impulses giving rise to tickle was inconclusive . 
diagnostic value of anti-neuronal antibodies for paraneoplastic disorders of the nervous system . the diagnostic value of the presence of anti-neuronal antibodies in serum was examined in 21 patients suspected of paraneoplastic disorders of the nervous system ( ns ) ( group 1 ) and was compared to three control groups ; group 2 : 25 patients with a neurological disease , without cancer and no sign of paraneoplastic disorder ; group 3 : 27 patients with neurological disease and cancer and no signs of a paraneoplastic disorder ; group 4 : 94 patients with cancer and without neurological disease . in group 1 , anti-neuronal nuclear antibodies were detected in eight patients ( 38 % ) , in titres from 1:1000 to 1:32,000 . a small cell lung cancer was present in six patients , ovarian cancer in one patient and in one patient no tumour could be detected . the neurological symptoms preceded a diagnosis of cancer in five out of eight patients . anti-neuronal antibodies were found in the serum of two out of 94 patients ( 2 % ) from control group 3 but not in serum from any of the other control groups . these data indicate a moderate sensitivity of 38 % , but a high specificity of 98.6 % ( 95 % confidence interval 95.5-99 .8 % ) for the presence of anti-neuronal nuclear antibodies if a paraneoplastic ns disorder is suspected . 
gemistocytic astrocytomas : a reappraisal . although gemistocytic astrocytomas are considered slow-growing astrocytomas , they often behave aggressively . to clarify the biological and clinical behavior of these rare tumors , the authors retrospectively identified 59 patients with gemistocytic astrocytoma whose tumors were diagnosed and treated between june , 1976 , and july , 1989 . three patients who were lost to follow-up review were excluded , as were two whose original slides could not be obtained and three whose tumors were diagnosed at recurrence or at autopsy . the pathological material of the remaining 51 patients was reviewed using two sets of histological criteria . thirteen patients ( group a ) had " pure " gemistocytic astrocytoma , defined as a glial tumor with more than 60 % gemistocytes/high-power field and a background of fibrillary astrocytes . fifteen patients ( group b ) had " mixed " gemistocytic astrocytoma , defined as a glial tumor with 20 % to 60 % gemistocytes/high-power field and a background of anaplastic astrocytes . twenty-three tumors did not meet these criteria and were excluded from analysis . the median age of the patients was 48.5 years in group a and 38.3 years in group b ( p less than 0.05 ) . in both groups , the median karnofsky performance scale score was greater than 90 % . all patients underwent surgical procedures ( four total and 19 partial resections , and five biopsies ) and postoperative radiation therapy . the majority also had interstitial brachytherapy , chemotherapy , or both . ten patients had one reoperation for tumor recurrence and one had two reoperations ; other treatments for recurrence included brachytherapy , chemotherapy , and repeat irradiation . all four patients who originally underwent gross total resection are still alive ; all five who had a biopsy have died . there was no significant difference in median survival times between groups : 136.5 weeks in group a ( range 10 to 310 + weeks ) and 135.6 weeks in group b ( range 31 to 460 + weeks ) . analysis of all 28 patients showed a better prognosis for patients less than 50 years of age ( 185 vs. 36 weeks survival time ; p less than 0.001 ) , patients with preoperative symptoms lasting for more than 6 months ( 228.1 vs. 110.2 weeks survival time ; p less than 0.05 ) , and patients with seizures as the first symptom ( 185.7 vs. 80 weeks survival time ; p less than 0.01 ) . survival time did not correlate with the presence of perivascular lymphocytic infiltration . the authors conclude that the presence of at least 20 % gemistocytes in a glial neoplasm is a poor prognostic sign , irrespective of the pathological background . it is proposed that gemistocytic astrocytomas be classified with anaplastic astrocytomas and treated accordingly . 
improved survival with the use of adjuvant chemotherapy in the treatment of medulloblastoma . between 1975 and 1989 , 108 children with newly diagnosed medulloblastoma/primitive neuroectodermal tumor ( mb/pnet ) of the posterior fossa were treated at the authors ' institution . the patients were managed uniformly , and treatment included aggressive surgical resections , postoperative staging evaluations for extent of disease , and craniospinal radiation therapy with a local boost . beginning in 1983 , children with mb/pnet were prospectively assigned to risk groups ; those with " standard-risk " mb/pnet were treated with radiation therapy alone , while those in the " poor-risk " group received similar radiation therapy plus adjuvant chemotherapy with 1 - ( 2-chloroethyl ) -3 - cyclohexyl-1-nitrosourea ( ccnu ) , vincristine , and cisplatin . the 5-year actuarial disease-free survival rate for all patients treated between 1975 and 1982 was 68 % , and 73 % when patients who died within 2 weeks after operation were excluded . this survival rate was statistically better for patients treated after 1982 ( 82 % ) compared to those treated between 1975 and 1982 ( 49 % ) ( p less than 0.004 ) . there was no difference in disease-free survival rates over time for children with standard-risk factors ; however , there was a significant difference in the 5-year survival rate for poor-risk patients treated prior to 1982 ( 35 % ) compared to those treated later ( 87 % ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . for the group as a whole , a younger age at diagnosis correlated with a poorer survival rate ; however , this relationship between age and outcome was significant only for children treated before 1983 ( p less than 0.001 ) . these results demonstrated an encouraging survival rate for children with mb/pnet , especially those treated with aggressive surgical resection followed by both radiation therapy and chemotherapy . the results strongly suggest that chemotherapy has a role for some , and possibly all , children with mb/pnet . 
interstitial chemotherapy with drug polymer implants for the treatment of recurrent gliomas . malignant gliomas have been difficult to treat with chemotherapy . the most effective agent , bcnu ( carmustine ) , has considerable systemic toxicity and a short half-life in serum . to obviate these problems , a method has been developed for the local sustained release of chemotherapeutic agents by their incorporation into biodegradable polymers . implantation of the drug-impregnated polymer at the tumor site allows prolonged local exposure with minimal systemic exposure . in this phase i-ii study , 21 patients with recurrent malignant glioma were treated with bcnu released interstitially by means of a polyanhydride biodegradable polymer implant . up to eight polymer wafers were placed in the resection cavity intraoperatively , upon completion of tumor debulking . the polymer releases the therapeutic drug for approximately 3 weeks . three increasing concentrations of bcnu were studied ; the treatment was well tolerated at all three levels . there were no adverse reactions to the bcnu wafer treatment itself . the average survival period after reoperation was 65 weeks for the first dose group , 64 weeks for the second dose group , and 32 weeks for the highest dose group . the overall mean survival time was 48 weeks from reoperation and 94 weeks from the original operation . the overall median survival times were 46 weeks postimplant and 87 weeks from initial surgery . eighteen ( 86 % ) of 21 patients lived more than 1 year from the time of their initial diagnosis and eight ( 38 % ) of 21 patients lived more than 1 year after intracranial implantation of the polymer . frequent hematology , blood chemistry , and urinalysis tests did not reveal any systemic effect from this interstitial chemotherapy . since the therapy is well tolerated and safe , a placebo-controlled clinical trial has been started . the trial will measure the effect of the second treatment dose on survival of patients with recurrent malignant glioma . 
characterization of astrocytomas , meningiomas , and pituitary adenomas by phosphorus magnetic resonance spectroscopy . phosphorus magnetic resonance ( mr ) spectroscopy allows noninvasive measurement of phosphate-containing compounds and ph within brain cells . the authors obtained localized phosphorus mr spectra from 10 normal brains , four low-grade astrocytomas , six glioblastomas , four meningiomas , and three pituitary adenomas and found differences in the spectra of each tumor type . compared to normal brain , the spectra from low-grade astrocytomas showed a significant reduction of the phosphodiester ( pde ) peak . glioblastomas were characterized by a significant reduction of the pde peak , elevation of the phosphomonoester ( pme ) peak , and a relatively alkaline intracellular ph. the spectra from meningiomas and pituitary adenomas were markedly different from the glial tumors . meningiomas showed significant reductions in phosphocreatine , pde , and inorganic phosphate , as well as a relatively alkaline ph. pituitary adenomas resembled meningiomas , but had a much higher pme peak . although the number of tumors studied was small , there appears to be a characteristic spectrum associated with these different tumor types . the present findings can be useful in the preoperative identification of these tumors and in furthering understanding of their growth and metabolism in vivo . 
tethered cord syndrome from a choristoma of mullerian origin . case report . the authors report a case of tethered cord syndrome due to a choristoma of mullerian origin located in the spinal cord at the lumbosacral junction . two similar cases were found upon review of the literature . the embryology of this lesion is discussed . 
intradural chordoma of the tentorium cerebelli . case report . a rare case of intradural chordoma is described . the literature contains seven examples of intradural extraosseous chordoma , all reported in a ventral location . this is the first reported case of a primary intradural chordoma distant from the clivus and involving both the supra - and infratentorial compartments . 
hemangiopericytoma of the sciatic nerve . case report . the authors report the case of a hemangiopericytoma arising in a sciatic nerve . it was found to be invasive within the epineurium but sparing surrounding tissues . adequate resection required sacrifice of the nerve . hemangiopericytomas can be added to the short list of mesodermal peripheral-nerve tumors . 
a vascular malformation mimicking an intracanalicular acoustic neurilemoma . case report . a patient with an enhancing , completely intracanalicular mass on magnetic resonance imaging was operated on for a presumed acoustic neurilemoma , but was found at surgery to have an intracanalicular vascular malformation . this rare lesion should be distinguished from angiomatous change within an acoustic neurilemoma and in the past has been termed " vascular tumor , " " hemangioma , " or " fibro-angioma . " the clinical distinctions between intracanalicular acoustic neurilemomas and intracanalicular vascular malformations and the ability of magnetic resonance imaging to distinguish between the two are discussed . 
dose dependency of time of onset of radiation-induced growth hormone deficiency . growth hormone ( gh ) secretion during insulin-induced hypoglycemia was assessed on 133 occasions in 82 survivors of childhood malignant disease . all had received cranial irradiation with a dose range to the hypothalamic-pituitary axis of 27 to 47.5 gy ( estimated by a schedule of 16 fractions over 3 weeks ) and had been tested on one or more occasions between 0.2 and 18.9 years after treatment . results of one third of the gh tests were defined as normal ( gh peak response , greater than 15 mu/l ) within the first 5 years , in comparison with 16 % after 5 years . stepwise multiple linear regression analysis showed that dose ( p = 0.007 ) and time from irradiation ( p = 0.03 ) , but not age at therapy , had a significant influence on peak gh responses . the late incidence of gh deficiency was similar over the whole dose range ( 4 of 26 gh test results normal for less than 30 gy and 4 of 25 normal for greater than or equal to 30 gy after 5 years ) , but the speed of onset over the first years was dependent on dose . we conclude that the requirement for gh replacement therapy and the timing of its introduction will be influenced by the dose of irradiation received by the hypothalamic-pituitary axis . 
biphasic reduction and concanavalin a binding properties of serum alpha-fetoprotein in preterm and term infants . reference values for postnatal serum alpha-fetoprotein ( afp ) and concanavalin a ( cona ) binding subfractions of afp in preterm and term infants are presented . preterm infants had 10-fold higher serum concentrations of afp than did term infants at birth . the reduction of serum values of afp was biphasic in both groups and differed significantly between the two groups . the first declining phase continued for approximately 4 months in preterm and for 2 months in term infants , and was related to the degree of prematurity . the afp values reached adult levels by 12 months in preterm and by 9 months in term infants . the developmental pattern of the carbohydrate moiety of afp was determined by cona fractioning . the proportion of the cona nonreactive subfraction of afp in preterm and term infants at birth was 6 % and 13 % , respectively ; it increased more rapidly in term than in preterm infants but reached 85 % to 95 % by the age of 6 months in both infant groups . our results indicate that the postnatal maturation of afp synthesis is dependent on gestational age . malignant recurrences of neonatal sacrococcygeal teratomas were associated with an increase in serum concentration of afp and a decrease in the proportion of the cona nonreactive subfraction of afp . 
carcinoma of the vulva . clinicopathologic factors involved in inguinal and pelvic lymph node metastasis . eighty-five women with vulvar squamous cell carcinoma were subjected to radical vulvectomy with bilateral inguinal and femoral node dissection or to radical vulvectomy with bilateral inguinofemoral and deep pelvic node dissection . the association between lymph node status ( metastatic or not ) and several parameters was analyzed : tumor location , size and clinical stage ; tumor thickness , histologic grade and mitotic index ; blood vessel , lymphatic and perineural infiltration ; and lymphocytic and plasma cell infiltrates . there were no metastases to the pelvic lymph nodes without previous inguinal lymph node involvement . unilateral vulvar carcinomas did not have contralateral metastatic nodes when there was no ipsilateral nodal involvement . lymphatic vessel infiltration showed a statistically significant correlation with inguinal node metastases ( p less than .05 ) . no correlation was found between lymph node metastasis and tumor size , clitoral invasion , tumor thickness , histologic grade , blood vessel and perineural infiltration , lymphocytic and plasma cell infiltrates , and mitotic index . 
human papillomavirus in women with vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia iii . untreated cases of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia ( vin ) iii may progress to invasive vulvar carcinoma . tissues from 29 new zealand women with vin iii were examined for the presence of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) types 6 , 11 , 16 and 18 by in situ hybridization and polymerase chain reaction . hpv 16 , the only hpv type detected in the lesions , was identified in about half the cases . hpv-positive women were younger than hpv-negative women , and their lesions displayed koilocytosis more often . in four of five cases in which there was a progression to invasive cancer , hpv 16 was detected in both the vin iii and invasive cancer tissue . 
deep femoral lymphadenectomy with preservation of the fascia lata . preliminary report on 42 invasive vulvar carcinomas . forty-two patients with primary invasive vulvar carcinoma were treated with radical vulvectomy and deep femoral lymphadenectomy with preservation of the fascia lata and cribriform fascia . the rationale for using this technique was based on anatomic knowledge of the topographic distribution of groin lymph nodes , which was confirmed by the study of 50 cadavers . the preliminary data show that the number of superficial and deep femoral lymph nodes removed from the 42 patients ( mean number of nodes , 20 ; range , 8-32 ) was similar to the number reported in anatomy books . in addition , the five-year actuarial survival rate , 70 % , was comparable to that in the literature . these preliminary results suggest that the surgical technique used in this study is as radical an oncologic procedure as way 's classic groin lymphadenectomy , which consists of removing the fascia lata and cribriform fascia . 
performing cytogenetic studies on ascitic , amniotic and hygroma fluid . the importance of obtaining cytogenetic studies on antenatally diagnosed structural malformations is well recognized . in two cases , three fetal compartments were sampled , each resulting in successful cytogenetic studies . fluid was obtained under ultrasound guidance from amniotic fluid , fetal ascites and cystic hygroma fluid . fluid from the hygroma itself may be the easiest compartment to analyze . 
breast self-examination in relation to the occurrence of advanced breast cancer . two hundred nine female enrollees of the group health cooperative of puget sound who developed advanced-stage breast cancer during the period 1982-1988 were interviewed about their practice of breast self-examination ( bse ) , use of other breast cancer screening modalities , and medical and reproductive histories . each subject 's description of how she performed the examination was scored according to her mention of up to 10 recommended bse techniques . a random sample of 433 women without advanced-stage breast cancer from the same population was interviewed for comparison . relative to women not practicing bse , the risk of advanced-stage breast cancer among bse users was 1.15 ( 95 % confidence interval , 0.73-1 .81 ) . frequency of bse did not differ between women with advanced-stage breast cancer and control subjects , whether in all subjects or in subgroups defined by age , use of mammography , or frequency of clinical breast examinations . while self-described proficiency in bse was generally low in both case and control subjects , the small percentage of women reporting more thorough self-examinations , regardless of frequency , had about a 35 % decrease in the occurrence of advanced-stage breast cancer compared to women who did not perform bse . these results suggest that , while carefully performed bse may avoid the development of some advanced-stage breast cancers , bse as practiced by most seattle-area women is of little or no benefit . 
preoperative chemotherapy ( cisplatin and fluorouracil ) and radiation therapy in stage iii non-small-cell lung cancer : a phase ii study of the lung cancer study group . the lung cancer study group conducted a phase ii pilot study of concurrent chemotherapy and radiation therapy ( chemoradiotherapy ) before surgery in 85 eligible patients with non-small-cell cancer limited to the chest but in whom attempted resection would have been likely to leave residual disease ( advanced stage iiia and minimal stage iiib disease ) . cisplatin , 75 mg/m2 , was given on days 1 and 29 ; fluorouracil , 1 g/m2 per 24 hours , was administered as a continuous infusion on days 1 through 4 and on days 29 through 32 ; and thoracic radiation , 30 gy in 15 fractions , was administered on days 1 through 19 . two patients achieved a complete response and 46 patients had a partial response for an overall response rate of 56 % . toxicity from chemoradiotherapy was moderate but acceptable . eight weeks after therapy was initiated , 54 patients underwent thoracotomy and tumor resection was attempted : 29 ( 34 % ) had complete resection and 15 ( 18 % ) had incomplete resection . although surgical dissection was generally more difficult than in patients not pretreated with chemoradiotherapy , there was no apparent increase in postoperative complications . in 8 patients ( 9 % ) , no viable tumor was detected pathologically in the resection specimen . of the 18 patients whose tumors were completely resected and had disease recurrence , none had recurrence only in the chest , 12 ( 67 % ) had recurrence only in distant sites , and 3 developed second primary tumors . median survival of all patients was 13 months . the overall results do not indicate a major benefit from this preoperative chemoradiotherapy regimen in patients with advanced but potentially resectable non-small-cell lung cancer . these results suggest a need to define better the relative roles of preoperative radiotherapy and chemotherapy . 
expression of the antimetastatic gene nm23 in human breast cancer : an association with good prognosis . the nm23 gene was identified in murine melanoma cells , in which its expression is associated with the cells ' metastatic potential . expression of nm23 has been detected in human breast tumors by means of hybridization and immunocytochemistry . we measured nm23 mrna in 71 patients with primary breast cancer and found variable levels of nm23 expression . the nm23 gene was expressed at higher levels in well-differentiated tumors ( p less than .02 ) . there was a significant inverse relationship between nm23 expression and nodal status ( p less than .02 ) . expression of nm23 was positively associated with longer disease-free survival and overall survival , and the relationships were significant ( p less than .002 and p less than .003 , respectively ) . this study showed that nm23 expression in human breast cancer was associated with good prognosis and a lack of lymph node metastasis and suggests that the nm23 gene product may play an important role in suppressing the metastatic phenotype . 
pathologic fracture through a solitary enchondroma of the radial diaphysis : case report . solitary enchondromata are rare but well recognised benign bone tumours . they are extremely rare in the radius . we report the case of a pathologic fracture through a solitary enchondroma in the radial diaphysis and its successful treatment . 
microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism causing subacute cor pulmonale : a difficult antemortem diagnosis [ published erratum appears in mayo clin proc 1991 apr ; 66 ( 4 ) :439 ] microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism is difficult to diagnose . the most common initial clinical symptom is subacute progressive dyspnea , and the initial laboratory evaluation typically shows hypoxemia in a patient with clear lung fields on a chest roentgenogram . another distinguishing feature may be hepatic abnormalities . in general , pulmonary angiography discloses no evidence of emboli , but multiple subsegmental peripheral perfusion defects are noted on ventilation-perfusion lung scans . the diagnosis of microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism can be confirmed by open-lung or transbronchial lung biopsy or by microvascular pulmonary cytology , a less invasive procedure that could be performed at the time of pulmonary angiography . herein we describe two patients with unsuspected microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism that eventuated in subacute cor pulmonale and death . these cases illustrate the characteristic findings of this entity and emphasize the need for early diagnosis . 
oxygen-exacerbated bleomycin pulmonary toxicity bleomycin is an antineoplastic agent with potential for producing pulmonary toxicity , attributed in part to its free radical-promoting ability . clinical and research experiences have suggested that the risk of bleomycin-induced pulmonary injury is increased with the administration of oxygen . we report a case in which the intraoperative administration of oxygen in the setting of previous bleomycin therapy contributed to postoperative ventilatory failure . our patient recovered with corticosteroid therapy . physician awareness of a potential interaction between oxygen and bleomycin may help reduce the morbidity and mortality related to bleomycin therapy . 
progressive coma after the transsphenoidal decompression of a pituitary adenoma with marked suprasellar extension : report of two cases . two cases of neurological deterioration and coma after the transsphenoidal decompression of a pituitary adenoma with marked suprasellar extension and invasion of the 3rd ventricle are presented . emergency ventricular shunting led to prompt neurological improvement , which , supplemented by radiation therapy , allowed long-term amelioration of symptoms . three possible explanations for this complication are offered : 1 ) traction of the attached 3rd ventricle into the decompression site , causing increased obstructive hydrocephalus , 2 ) vasopressin release by surgical manipulation of the pituitary stalk and circumventricular organs causing cerebral edema , and 3 ) edema in the residual tumor secondary to surgical manipulation causing further hydrocephalus . subsequent patients with similar clinical and imaging criteria will have a planned perioperative ventricular shunting procedure performed . 
ectopic retinoblastoma within the 3rd ventricle : case report . ectopic intracranial retinoblastomas are rare . these tumors usually occur in the pineal , parasellar , or suprasellar regions several years after the successful treatment of ocular retinoblastomas with no evidence of direct extension or distant metastasis . we report here a case of ectopic retinoblastoma occurring within the third ventricle . the tumor was surgically excised by the transventricular approach . ectopic retinoblastomas exhibit greater differentiation than one would expect to observe in a metastatic lesion of this tumor . the distinction of ectopic retinoblastomas and metastasis from ocular retinoblastomas is important , since ectopic retinoblastomas , unlike metastasis , can be successfully managed by intensive therapy including radical excision . 
long-term follow-up of patients with recurrent malignant gliomas treated with adjuvant adoptive immunotherapy . between august 1986 and october 1987 , the denver brain tumor research group conducted a clinical trial using autologous human recombinant interleukin-2 ( ril-2 ) - activated lymphocytes to treat 20 patients with recurrent high-grade gliomas . the trial involved surgical resection and/or decompression followed by intracavitary implantation of lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cells and autologous stimulated lymphocytes ( asl ) along with ril-2 in a plasma clot . one month later , stimulated lymphocytes and ril-2 were infused through a rickham reservoir attached to a catheter directed into the tumor bed . the lak cells were ril-2-activated peripheral blood lymphocytes cultured for 4 days ; the asl were lectin - and ril-2-activated peripheral blood lymphocytes cultured for 10 days . of the 20 patients treated , 11 were evaluated as a group ( mean age , 44 years , range , 15-61 years ; mean karnofsky rating , 69 , range , 50-100 ; mean decadron dose at entry , 14 mg/d , range , 0-32 ) . the average number of lymphocytes implanted was 7.6 x 10 ( 9 ) ( range , 1.9-27 .5 x 10 ( 9 ] , together with 1 to 4 x 10 ( 6 ) u of ril-2 . to date , 10 of the 11 patients died , all from recurrent tumor growth . the median overall survival time was 63 weeks ( range , 36-201 ; mean , 86 ) . the median survival time after immunotherapy was 18 weeks ( range , 11-151 ; mean , 39 ) . no significant difference in survival after immunotherapy was found between those patients who had received previous chemotherapy and those who had not . the use of steroids or prior chemotherapy did not influence the in vitro generation of asl or lak cells . 
immunohistochemical study of erythropoietin in cerebellar hemangioblastomas associated with secondary polycythemia . although cerebellar hemangioblastomas are known to be associated with secondary polycythemia , the cellular derivation of erythropoietin ( epo ) in hemangioblastomas still remains obscure . specimens from 18 patients with cerebellar hemangioblastomas were immunohistochemically studied using anti-epo monoclonal antibody . eight cases of brain tumors , including 2 meningiomas , 2 medulloblastomas , 2 glioblastomas , and 2 metastatic brain tumors were studied as controls . in 9 of 18 cases , epo-positive cells were scattered around the capillaries and were ultrastructurally shown to be mast cells . these cases were not , however , associated with secondary polycythemia . in contrast , the stromal cells were positive for epo in 3 cases . among them , one was associated with secondary polycythemia . furthermore , one-half of the control cases of brain tumor contained epo-positive mast cells . accordingly , it was suggested that mast cells ( or small granulocytes ) have little relationship to the release of epo ; however , some stromal cells might release epo with a resultant polycythemia . 
disposition of cerebral metastases from malignant melanoma : implications for radiosurgery radiosurgery is becoming more generally available and indications for its use continue to be defined . cerebral metastases from malignant melanoma are often treated with whole-brain irradiation , but with limited benefit . innovative treatments , such as radiosurgery , make possible the delivery of doses of radiation that are higher than usual . to determine how many patients might be candidates for radiosurgery , a retrospective analysis of computed tomographic brain scans performed on 41 patients with cerebral metastases from malignant melanoma was undertaken . one-third of these patients were found to have cerebral metastases amenable to a radiosurgical approach , as illustrated radiation dose-volume histograms . patient and tumor characteristics suggest that this series is represent with cerebral metastases from malignant melanoma . the implications of radiosurgery for normal tissue radiation tolerance and its effects on melanoma are discussed . 
the transoral approach for the management of intradural lesions at the craniovertebral junction : review of 7 cases . the main difficulty in dealing with intradural lesions located ventrally in the region of the craniovertebral junction ( cvj ) is related to their relative inaccessibility . posterolateral approaches involve some manipulation of the brain stem and provide limited access because of the necessity of working between the cranial nerves . even then , the view of the ventral midline and across is limited . the transoral approach , which has been widely used for the management of extradural lesions in this area , is also useful for the treatment of intradural lesions . it provides an unimpeded although somewhat restricted , view of the ventral aspect of the cvj without the need for brain retraction . the cranial nerves and vertebral arteries are not interposed between the surgeon and the lesion . the risks of cerebrospinal fluid leakage and infection are greatly diminished by the use of fibrin adhesive and prolonged diversion of the cerebrospinal fluid . the use of this approach , together with its technical difficulties and results , in the management of seven purely intradural lesions located ventrally at the cvj , is discussed . 
improved access to lesions of the central skull base by mobilization of the zygoma : experience with 54 cases . improved access to lesions at the medial end of the sphenoid wing or in the interpeduncular cistern after mobilization of the zygoma has been a subject of growing interest in recent years . this study describes the operative technique we have adopted and records our experience with 55 operations in 54 patients who underwent the procedure in the past 3 years . seven patients had vascular lesions , 44 had tumors , and 3 had miscellaneous lesions . the majority of the tumors were medial meningiomas , and particular note is made of those arising from the cavernous sinus with respect to their resectability . sixteen of these tumors were encountered , and total excision was possible in 11 cases . access to the infratemporal fossa is facilitated , and in 2 cases we were able to excise completely trigeminal neuromas that had extended there . the extra maneuver adds little to the overall operating time , and complications relating to it are uncommon , mild in degree , and usually self-limiting . we conclude that the operation is extremely valuable in appropriate circumstances . 
submandibular cystic hygroma resembling a plunging ranula in a neonate . review and report of a case . cystic hygromas are large lymphangiomas that are most often found in the posterior triangle of the neck and the axilla in children . they are most frequently found before age 2 and may be massive . after upper respiratory infection , they may become infected and enlarged , causing dysphagia and toxemia . the diagnosis can usually be made by history and physical examination and confirmed by biopsy . treatment is by surgical excision of small lesions and staged debulking excisions in more severe cases . a patient with a cystic hygroma having many clinical characteristics of a plunging ranula is presented . the cyst fluid was aspirated and analyzed for its amylase , sodium , potassium , chloride , urea nitrogen , glucose , and total protein content . the characteristics of the fluid were also compared with those of lymph and saliva . this report demonstrates the difficulty in determining the diagnosis of a tumor that has the clinical features of a cystic hygroma , as well as a plunging ranula . the necessity of a proper presurgical diagnosis is essential since the form of therapy for each is different and conflicting . a method that distinguishes between the cervical cystic hygroma and a plunging ranula by means of aspirated fluid is discussed . 
hiv infection : clinical features and treatment of thirty-three homosexual men with kaposi 's sarcoma . the clinical findings of patients with oral kaposi 's sarcoma are reviewed . these oral findings commonly included candidiasis , hairy leukoplakia , gingivitis associated with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) , periodontitis , and other symptoms , including xerostomia . the other common symptoms of hiv disease that may be of importance in leading to a diagnosis are reviewed in this patient group . treatment by local radiotherapy or by intralesional vinblastine of these oral kaposi 's sarcomas resulted in successful palliation , with more than 50 % regression of the lesions in 80 % of the patients treated . 
effect of antileukemia chemotherapy on marrow , blood , and oral granulocyte counts . this study was designed to elicit the effects of antileukemia chemotherapy on marrow production , blood carriage , and oral extravasation of granulocytes , and on the phagocytic activity of those harvested from the mouth . fifteen adult patients with various morphologic forms of acute leukemia were followed through one to four courses of chemotherapy . oral saline rinse samples were obtained thrice weekly and prepared for enumeration in a hemocytometer . the oral granulocyte counts were compared with concurrent counts in the bone marrow and peripheral blood . phagocytic activity of the oral granulocytes was measured by the method of smith and rommel . the 15 patients were followed through 30 courses of chemotherapy and recovery . during each , there was a drug-induced decrease in marrow , blood , and oral granulocytes that was reversed when therapy was discontinued and bone marrow activity was restored . phagocytic activity of the oral granulocytes was not perceptibly affected by the antileukemic drugs . oral granulocyte counts provide a noninvasive method for monitoring the onset and recovery of chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression and granulocytopenia in patients with leukemia . 
melanocytic hyperplasia of the oral mucosa . lesions that exhibit melanocytic hyperplasia are uncommon in the oral mucosa . they are even more rare than the various morphologic types of nevomelanocytic lesions . this article reports the clinicopathologic features of oral lesions diagnosed as lentigo simplex , junctional lentigo ( " jentigo " ) , atypical melanocytic hyperplasia ( melanoma in situ ) , and melanocanthoma . the proper terminology for these lesions is also discussed . 
ectopic thyroid tissue in the submandibular region . this report describes an unusual location of ectopic thyroid gland tissue . a growth in the left submandibular area was surgically excised , and the microscopic examination of the specimen revealed thyroid tissue with colloid goiter . because this entity can not be clinically distinguished from a salivary gland tumor , ectopic thyroid tissue should be considered in the differential diagnosis of swellings involving the submandibular area . 
orofacial metastasis of pulmonary giant cell carcinoma . a patient was admitted to the hospital with multiple skin nodules of recent origin and signs and symptoms suggestive of acute pulmonary infection . because one of the skin masses was located overlying the left mandibular body region , the patient was referred to the hospital dentistry clinic for evaluation . historical , clinical , and radiographic assessments were consistent with reactive lymphadenopathy , and an intraoral excisional biopsy was performed . the biopsy results were indicative of giant cell carcinoma , which was confirmed by biopsy results from a similar skin lesion on the shoulder and by malignant cells recovered in the sputum and pleural fluids . although this carcinoma has been shown to rarely metastasize to the skin and lymphatics of the neck , this is the first case report of metastasis to facial lymphatics . 
blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome with oral hemangiomas . a case of blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome with oral hemangiomas is reported . attention is directed to this syndrome because , although rare , it is usually associated with oral lesions . the blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome should always be considered a possibility in patients with oral hemangiomas and bluish skin nodules . 
early diagnosis of breast cancer . universal screening is essential . breast cancer strikes 1 in 10 women in the united states . early diagnosis of breast cancer improves chances of survival . with universal screening and expert evaluation of early clinical signs and symptoms of breast cancer , mortality rates can be reduced by 30 % to 40 % . physicians can help achieve this goal by taking an active role in patient education and promoting the availability of affordable screening mammography . 
nipple discharge in women . is it cause for concern ? nipple discharge is one of the most common breast complaints in women . galactorrhea ( milky discharge ) may occur during pregnancy or breast-feeding or as a result of drug therapy , hypothyroidism , or hyperthyroidism . nonbloody discharge is most common and is usually benign . bloody discharge should be considered a sign of cancer until proved otherwise . persistent galactorrhea and nonbloody discharge can be treated by transecting the mammary ducts . simple mastectomy may be appropriate in patients with persistent bloody discharge who have a strong family history of breast cancer . 
ct and mr imaging in staging non-small cell bronchogenic carcinoma : report of the radiologic diagnostic oncology group . the accuracies of magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging and computed tomography ( ct ) in determining tumor classification and assessing mediastinal node metastases were compared in a prospective cooperative study of 170 patients with non-small cell bronchogenic carcinoma . the sensitivity of ct in distinguishing t3-t4 tumors from t0-t2 tumors was 63 % ; specificity was 84 % . these values for mr imaging were not significantly different ( 56 % and 80 % ) . with receiver operating characteristic ( roc ) analysis , no difference existed between the accuracies of ct and mr imaging in diagnosis of bronchial involvement or chest wall invasion , but mr imaging was significantly more accurate than ct ( p = .047 ) in diagnosis of mediastinal invasion . lymph node sampling was performed in 155 patients ( 642 node stations ) . cancerous nodes were found in 14 % of stations in 21 % of patients . there was no significant difference between the accuracies of ct and mr imaging in detecting mediastinal node metastases ( n2 or n3 ) ; the sensitivities were 52 % and 48 % , respectively , and specificities were 69 % and 64 % . roc analysis also showed no difference between ct and mr imaging . 
primary ct diagnosis of abdominal masses in a pacs environment whether the display medium -- film versus cathode ray tube ( crt ) -- affects observer performance during interpretation of computed tomographic ( ct ) images is an important research issue in these times of implementation and growth of picture archiving and communications systems in radiology . the authors performed a multiobserver receiver operating characteristic ( roc ) study to determine the performance of radiologists who read abdominal ct studies displayed on film , as well as on a high-resolution workstation ( video monitor ) that made use of three different display modes . a total of 166 examinations were evaluated by eight radiologists , who recorded their ordinal confidence ratings of the demonstration of presence or absence of abdominal masses . roc analysis showed small differences in the confidence ratings assigned by individual readers for the detection and interpretation tasks . results for the group as a whole showed no significant reduction or improvement in observer performance when ratings for any one of the workstation display modes were analyzed . the results of this study demonstrate that current crt display technology is adequate for enabling the primary detection of abdominal masses with ct examinations . 
zollinger-ellison syndrome : prospective assessment of abdominal us in the localization of gastrinomas . the ability of abdominal ultrasound ( us ) to help localize gastrinomas was prospectively studied in 79 patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome . the results were assessed by means of laparotomy , autopsy , or percutaneous liver biopsy . for hepatic gastrinoma , us had a sensitivity of 63 % and a specificity of 100 % , with a positive predictive value of 100 % and a negative predictive value of 89 % . us was slightly less sensitive for detecting gastrinoma in the liver than were computed tomography ( ct ) ( 66 % ) and selective angiography ( 78 % ) . for detection of extrahepatic gastrinoma , us had a sensitivity of 30 % , a specificity of 94 % , a positive predictive value of 100 % , and a negative predictive value of 25 % . us enabled detection of tumor in eight cases not detected with ct and in four not detected with angiography . specificity for extrahepatic gastrinoma was similar for all three modalities ( 89 % -95 % ) . ct and us were equally effective for the detection of extrahepatic gastrinoma , and angiography was significantly more effective than both us and ct ( p less than .01 ) . the authors conclude that us , although of low sensitivity , remains useful as the initial imaging modality in patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome . 
oral magnetic particles in mr imaging of the abdomen and pelvis . two phase 2 clinical trials of an oral superparamagnetic contrast agent for enhancement on magnetic resonance images of the intestine were performed . in trial 1 , 31 male patients with cancer of the testis underwent follow-up examinations of the abdomen at 0.5 and 1.5 t after oral administration of magnetic particles . in trial 2 , 31 female patients with pelvic and lower abdominal disease were examined at 1.5 t after administration of the contrast material . the patients each ingested 800 ml of contrast material over approximately 2 hours . concentrations of 0.25 and 0.5 g/l did not induce blurring or metallic artifacts . distribution was homogeneous through the gastrointestinal tract . in all patients , a loss of signal intensity was observed on proton density - , t1 - , and t2-weighted images . the diagnostic information from postcontrast images in trial 2 was greater in 16 patients ( 52 % ) . contrast enhancement was independent of field strength ; no major side effects were observed . artifacts from moving bowels were less troublesome , and delineation of intraabdominal and pelvic organs was better with the use of oral magnetic particles . 
capsular transgression of prostatic carcinoma : evaluation with transrectal us with pathologic correlation . one hundred twenty-five patients with biopsy proved clinical stage a or b prostatic carcinoma were evaluated with biplane transrectal ultrasonography ( us ) prior to radical prostatectomy . sonograms were evaluated for capsular transgression of the tumor into the posterior and posterolateral aspects of the glands as manifested by local contour deformity and irregularity or interruption of the periprostatic fat echoes . correlation of the findings at us with the findings at pathologic examination of the step sections was obtained , and the presence and depth of capsular penetration were assessed . of the 250 halves or hemispheres of the prostate gland that were evaluated , capsular penetration was seen at pathologic examination in 86 . us enabled correct identification of pericapsular tumor spread in 59 of the 86 hemispheres but did not depict pericapsular tumor spread in 27 hemispheres . absence of pericapsular tumor spread was verified at pathologic examination in 149 of the 164 hemispheres that either did not have tumor or did not show pericapsular tumor spread . pericapsular tumor spread was incorrectly diagnosed in 15 hemispheres . a positive us diagnosis of pericapsular tumor spread correlated moderately well with the depth of penetration demonstrated at pathologic examination . transrectal us is an effective noninvasive procedure that demonstrates the presence of prostatic cancer . 
prostate cancer : local staging with endorectal surface coil mr imaging . endorectal surface coil magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging was used to stage the local extent of prostate cancer in 22 patients . the endorectal coil images were acquired with a 10-12-cm field of view and a 4-mm section thickness . all pathologic specimens were reviewed by one pathologist . endorectal surface coil mr imaging was 82 % accurate in the differentiation of stage b from stage c cancer . one case was overestimated , and three cases were underestimated . the three underestimated cases consisted of two cases of microscopic capsular invasion and one case of minimal seminal vesicle invasion . in a comparison of retrospective , blinded readings of endorectal coil and body coil images , there was an average improvement in accuracy of 16 % in staging prostate cancer with endorectal coil images . 
combined gadolinium-enhanced and fat-saturation mr imaging of renal masses . combined gadopentetate dimeglumine enhancement and fat-saturation ( fs ) spin-echo ( se ) magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging for the detection and characterization of renal masses was evaluated in 43 patients with a total of 71 lesions ( 28 solid masses and 43 cysts ) . se mr sequences compared were the following : short repetition time ( tr ) / echo time ( te ) , conventional se , short tr/te fs se , long tr/te conventional se , gadolinium-enhanced short tr/te conventional se , and gadolinium-enhanced short tr/te fs se techniques . mr findings were compared with findings of contrast-enhanced computed tomography ( ct ) and with pathologic findings in all patients . the sensitivities for detection of renal masses with gadolinium-enhanced fs ( 71 of 71 lesions ) and with gadolinium-enhanced short tr/te conventional ( 65 of 71 lesions ) se sequences were significantly ( p less than .01 ) greater than with any unenhanced ( short tr/te conventional [ 40 of 71 lesions ] , or long tr/te [ 39 of 71 lesions ] ) se sequence . lesion characterization was also best with the gadolinium-enhanced fs se sequence ( 65 of 71 lesions correctly classified ) . when combined pre - and postcontrast short tr/te fs se images were analyzed with both qualitative ( visual ) and quantitative ( region-of-interest measurements ) assessment , lesion characterization improved even further ( 70 of 71 lesions were correctly characterized ) . all lesions detected with ct were visualized with the gadolinium-enhanced fs se mr sequence , which in addition depicted seven cysts and two small renal cell carcinomas . in summary , the use of gadopentetate dimeglumine , especially when combined with the fs technique , was superior to unenhanced mr imaging for detection and characterization of renal lesions . 
epithelial tumors of the ovary : ct findings and correlation with us . one hundred thirty patients with 170 epithelial ovarian tumors were prospectively studied with computed tomography ( ct ) before surgery . ultrasound ( us ) was performed in 108 patients with 138 tumors . at pathologic examination , 78 tumors ( 46 % ) were benign , 14 ( 8 % ) borderline , and 78 ( 46 % ) malignant . ct results were compared with surgical and pathologic findings in all patients . ct enabled detection of 148 of 170 tumors ( 87 % ) , and us enabled detection of 118 of 138 tumors ( 86 % ) . benign serous cystadenomas ( n = 42 ) were correctly characterized with a sensitivity of 69 % at ct and 70 % at us . benign mucinous cystadenomas ( n = 21 ) were correctly characterized with a sensitivity of 62 % at ct and 50 % at us . malignancy was suggested in nine of 14 patients ( 64 % ) with borderline tumors at ct and in five of 14 ( 36 % ) at us . the overall accuracy of characterization of benign versus malignant tumors ( including borderline tumors ) was 94 % with ct and 80 % with us . in the 108 patients studied with both ct and us , the sensitivity of ct was significantly superior to that of us ( p less than .03 ) , whereas there was no significant difference in specificity ( p = .125 ) . 
lesions that manifest as medial cheek and nasolabial fold masses . seventeen cases were collected in which the patient presented with a medial cheek or nasolabial fold mass . most of these lesions were uncommon , and some were rare . the most reliable differentiating finding was the type of associated bone involvement . the malignancies had bone erosion and as a group could be distinguished from the other masses . computed tomographic attenuation and magnetic resonance imaging signal intensities were nonspecific and did not allow a definitive diagnosis to be made . the types of pathologic conditions and their sectional imaging findings are reviewed . 
intraoperative i-125 seed implantation for extensive recurrent head and neck carcinomas . from 1978 to 1988 , 41 patients with extensive recurrent carcinomas of the head and neck were treated with surgical resection plus intraoperative iodine-125 seed implantation . surgery was performed to resect the tumors and to expose the tumor beds for implantation . i-125 seeds were implanted intraoperatively , with a spacing of 0.75-1 cm between adjacent seeds , either into the soft tissue in the tumor bed or onto small patches of gelatin sponges to cover the bone , nerve , or blood vessel involved with disease . reconstructive flaps were used in 18 patients . the average i-125 dose delivered by the implanted seeds was 8,263 cgy . the determinate 5-year actuarial survival rate for the entire group was 40 % . the 5-year local disease control rate was 44 % . major complications were transient wound infection ( 32 % ) , flap necrosis ( 24 % ) , fistula formation ( 10 % ) , and carotid blowout ( 5 % ) . these results indicate that surgical resection plus i-125 seed implantation provides a potentially curative treatment for patients with extensive recurrent head and neck carcinomas that would be considered traditionally unresectable and that would be treated only with palliative therapy . 
carcinoma of the head of the pancreas . optimal treatment for unresectable carcinoma of the pancreas remains controversial . this study was done to examine the relationship between perioperative jaundice and postoperative morbidity , and type of palliative biliary bypass and postoperative morbidity and jaundice clearance . seventy-six patients with obstructive jaundice secondary to carcinoma of the head of the pancreas were studied . forty-nine patients underwent one of four different types of palliative bypass : 1 , cholecystojejunostomy ( n = 22 ) ; 2 , choledochojejunostomy ( n = 11 ) ; 3 , choledochoduodenostomy ( n = 9 ) , and 4 , cholecystoduodenostomy ( n = 7 ) . age , sex and preoperative health status were similar for all operative groups , as well as for those with and without postoperative morbidity . the postoperative complication rate was 33 per cent and there was one postoperative death . length of preoperative jaundice and peak preoperative bilirubin levels were independent of morbidity . postoperative morbidity was similar for each type of bypass used and no significant difference was found when cholecystoenteric ( 1 and 4 ) and choledochoenteric ( 2 and 3 ) bypass were compared . the results of this study support the view that postoperative morbidity is not directly related to the presence of jaundice preoperatively . furthermore , the rate of jaundice clearance and the occurrence of postoperative complications are not dependent on the type of bypass used . 
the value of symptom directed evaluation in the surveillance for recurrence of carcinoma of the breast . specific postoperative tests used to diagnose recurrent carcinoma of the breast were evaluated for their ability to have an impact on the over-all course of the disease . sixty-four patients with recurrent or new contralateral primary disease were divided into two groups based on the method of diagnosis . those patients with a new complaint at an interval between scheduled follow-up visits and who went on to have tests to document a recurrence were categorized as interval follow-up . those who were seen at a prearranged regular follow-up period and received tests as recommended by the attending physician or surgeon and had a documented recurrence were classified as routine follow-up . thirteen patients presented with new contralateral primary disease and 51 with metastatic disease ( 16 , bone ; 13 , lung ; 11 , local ; three , liver , and eight , multiple ) . the median time to discovery of recurrence from the primary treatment was 29 and 28 months for the interval and routine groups , respectively . ninety per cent of the failures occurred by 53 months . the survival time after recurrence was significantly greater in those patients diagnosed routinely ( p = 0.003 ) . however , the over-all survival time ( from primary therapy to death ) was only significantly improved for the routine group when the contralateral new primary diseases were included ( p = 0.009 ) . the method of diagnosis of a contralateral primary carcinoma was physical examination and mammogram . strong recommendations for follow-up testing can be limited to mammogram and physical examination . 
trends in thirty years of vaginal hysterectomy . vaginal hysterectomy , as currently performed at the university of vienna , was first described by halban in 1932 . from 1955 to 1985 , a total of 9,967 hysterectomies were performed . the vaginal route was used for 6,078 ( 60.9 per cent ) of these procedures . sixty-four per cent of the women operated upon were multiparous , 27 per cent were uniparous and 8 per cent were nulliparous . a comparison of the periods 1955 to 1975 and 1976 to 1985 revealed the following trends : the incidence of uterine myomas ( 30.6 to 27.1 per cent ) , in situ carcinoma of the cervix ( 6.5 to 7.9 per cent ) and endometrial carcinoma ( 1.4 to 0.6 per cent ) remained largely constant . in the past decade , indications for positional abnormalities ( uterine descent and prolapse ) were encountered more often ( 27.6 to 41.6 per cent ) than in the first observation period , while the incidence of recurrent metrorrhagia was found to decline ( 33.9 to 22.8 per cent ) . the most common complications included hemorrhage during the operation , lesions of the bladder , hemorrhage until 48 hours after surgical treatment and hemorrhage from days 2 to 14 postoperatively ( around 0.5 per cent , respectively ) . during the second observation period , no postoperative fistulas developed . two instances of tubal prolapse were seen . laparotomy was done in four of 6,078 instances . two patients died of septic complications . whenever possible , we prefer vaginal hysterectomy because of its low complication rate , low mortality rate and low postoperative morbidity . 
axillary lymphadenectomy for intraductal carcinoma of the breast . during a ten year period , 175 axillary lymph node dissections were done as part of the treatment for intraductal carcinoma of the breast ; 98 patients were treated with modified radical mastectomy and 77 were treated by mammary preservation , consisting of excision of the lesion , axillary dissection and radiation therapy . one of 175 axillary node dissections yielded positive nodes . axillary dissection for intraductal carcinoma of the breast is unlikely to yield involved nodes and is not indicated for use in most instances . it should be reserved for lesions demonstrating microinvasion . 
an analysis of the results of mammographically guided biopsies of the breast . three hundred and fifty-three women underwent 358 biopsies of the breast for nonpalpable mammographic lesions during a five year period . cancer was identified in 95 ( 27 per cent ) . mammographic findings in the patients with cancer were calcifications only ( 54 per cent ) , a mass ( 27 per cent ) , a mass with calcifications ( 15 per cent ) , an asymmetric distortion ( 1 per cent ) and an asymmetric distortion with calcifications ( 3 per cent ) . cancer was identified in 29 per cent of the biopsies done for calcifications , 20 per cent of those done for a mass with calcifications , 6 per cent of those done for an asymmetric distortion and 38 per cent of those done for an asymmetric distortion with calcifications . forty-nine per cent of the mammographically suspicious calcifications were cancer , while 100 per cent of the indeterminate calcifications were benign . forty-five per cent of the spiculated masses were cancerous , while only 3 per cent of the circumscribed masses were malignant . for those patients with carcinoma undergoing axillary lymph node dissection , 13 per cent had one or more positive nodes . a strategy for increasing the effectiveness of mammographically guided biopsies of the breast is presented . 
modified technique of pringle 's maneuver in resection of the liver . crushing of the hepatic parenchyma with hepatic clamps to minimize blood loss during resection of the liver leads to mechanical damage of hepatocytes . pringle 's maneuver may precipitate liver failure by hepatic warm ischemia as well . therefore , we controlled bleeding from the surface of the resection by using light compression on the hepatic parenchyma with a band while applying a hepatic arterial clamp at the hepatic hilus . this vascular control method can be done because the portal pressure is about one-tenth of the hepatic artery pressure and provides an efficient and harmless transection of the liver . 
iron and the liver . iron is essential for life , but iron overload is toxic and potentially fatal . the liver is a major site of iron storage and is particularly susceptible to injury from iron overload , especially when ( as in primary hemochromatosis ) the iron accumulates in hepatocytes . iron can be taken up by the liver in several forms and by several pathways including : ( 1 ) receptor-mediated endocytosis of diferric or monoferric transferrin or ferritin , ( 2 ) reduction and carrier-facilitated internalization of iron from transferrin without internalization of the protein moiety of transferrin , ( 3 ) electrogenic uptake of low molecular weight , non-protein bound forms of iron , and ( 4 ) uptake of heme from heme-albumin , heme-hemopexin , or hemoglobin-haptoglobin complexes . normally , pathway 2 is probably the major one for uptake of iron by hepatocytes . iron is stored in the liver in the cores of ferritin shells and as hemosiderin , an insoluble product derived from iron-rich ferritin . iron in hepatocytes stimulates translation of ferritin mrna and represses transcription of dna for transferrin and transferrin receptors . the major pathologic effects of chronic hepatic iron overload are : ( 1 ) fibrosis and cirrhosis , ( 2 ) porphyria cutanea tarda , and ( 3 ) hepatocellular carcinoma . although precise pathogenetic mechanisms remain unknown , iron probably produces these and other toxic effects by increasing oxidative stress and lysosomal lability . vigorous efforts at diagnosis and treatment of iron overload are essential since the pathologic effects of iron are totally preventable by early vigorous iron removal and prevention of iron re-accumulation . 
expression of beta 1 integrins in normal human keratinocytes . the majority of cell adhesive events to the extracellular matrix are mediated by cell surface receptors , beta 1 integrins . keratinocytes express at least six different polypeptides of beta 1 integrin class , namely beta 1 , alpha 2 , alpha 3 , alpha 5 , and alpha 6 ( alpha 6 is mainly associated with beta 4 polypeptide ) . these epithelial cells use alpha 2 beta 1 as a collagen receptor and alpha 3 beta 1 as a fibronectin receptor , while alpha 6 beta 4 is the major basement membrane receptor . expression of alpha 5 beta 1 complex is low . processing of beta 1 integrins is fast in keratinocytes ; half-maximal maturation takes only 3 hours . in addition to their function in cell-matrix interactions , beta 1 integrins ( alpha 2 beta 1 and alpha 3 beta 1 ) have also a role in maintaining keratinocyte cell-cell interactions . it is possible that resting basal keratinocytes use beta 1 integrins as cell-cell adhesion receptors , and during activation , like in wound healing , these receptors relocalize to mediate events involving cell-matrix interactions . 
using a state cancer registry to increase screening behaviors of sisters and daughters of breast cancer patients . the pennsylvania cancer registry was used to contact breast cancer patients and , through them , their adult sisters and daughters . the sisters and daughters were counseled concerning their higher than average risks for breast cancer and their need for mammography and breast self-examination . results showed a 9 percent increase in mammography and a 10 percent increase in breast self-examination rates for the counseled over control group . costs were $ 49 per counseled sister or daughter indicating a need to increase cost effectiveness before implementation is practical . 
subscapular elastofibroma in a young pitcher . a case report . subscapular elastofibromas and scapulothoracic bursitis can cause symptomatic masses in baseball pitchers . both processes appear to represent reactive soft tissue responses to repetitive stress at the inferior border of the scapula . it is assumed that most masses in the subscapular area represent scapulothoracic bursitis rather than an elastofibroma . however , it is possible that some of the masses treated conservatively as scapulothoracic bursitis may be elastofibromas . a study is currently under way to evaluate the incidence of subscapular masses in college and professional pitchers in the united states . a follow-up report is anticipated when the study has been completed . the author requests information concerning any confirmed cases of elastofibroma in baseball pitchers . 
the glucose transporter and blood-brain barrier of human brain tumors . the glucose transporter of the human brain has been localized to endothelial cells expressing the blood-brain barrier , but little is known regarding its mechanism of induction or whether its expression is exclusively linked with restricted vascular permeability . we investigated glucose transporter expression by vessels in human astrocytic tumors and pulmonary metastases to the brain using immunohistochemical techniques . vessels in 9 of 10 low-grade astrocytomas and 8 of 10 anaplastic astrocytomas were positive for glucose transporter . glioblastoma vessels were transporter-positive in only 2 of 10 specimens . vessels in all three metastatic tumors were negative for the glucose transporter . the decrease in transporter expression observed in higher-grade tumors occurred independently of increases in vascular permeability . in low-grade astrocytomas and glioblastomas transporter expression and contrast enhancement were inversely related , but vessels in 6 of 9 anaplastic astrocytomas were transporter-positive despite contrast enhancement . these findings suggest that separate mechanisms induce the glucose transporter and the permeability restrictions of the human blood-brain barrier . they also have potential implications for the therapy and prognosis of astroglial neoplasms . 
effects of treatment on long-term survivors with malignant astrocytomas . we reviewed the records of 160 consecutive patients with glioblastoma and anaplastic astrocytoma to evaluate the long-term consequences of radiation therapy and chemotherapy . we defined long-term survivors as those patients with glioblastoma or anaplastic astrocytoma who lived at least 100 % longer than median survival of historical controls , for example , 2 years for patients with glioblastoma and 4 years for patients with anaplastic astrocytoma . there were 9 ( 5.6 % ) long-term survivors . three ( 30 % ) became demented and died without evidence of tumor recurrence . one , after survival of 10 years , died of tumor recurrence . of the remaining survivors , 2 ( 22 % ) have significantly impaired short-term memory function and other neurological deficits such as gait apraxia . three ( 30 % ) can function independently . it is likely but can not be proved that it is radiotherapy and not chemotherapy that is the causal factor of this dismal therapeutic outcome . our study suggests restraint in the use of radiotherapy for patients with brain tumors that have more favorable prognoses than glioblastomas and anaplastic astrocytomas , such as low-grade astrocytomas and oligodendrogliomas . 
chemotherapy for medulloblastoma/primitive neuroectodermal tumors of the posterior fossa . chemotherapy has only marginal efficacy in adult malignant brain tumors . in contrast , drug therapy is considerably more effective in medulloblastoma/primitive neuroectodermal tumors ( mb/pnet ) of the posterior fossa , the most common childhood primary central nervous system tumor . at the time of disease recurrence , a variety of different single agents and drug combinations result in tumor shrinkage and increased survival . the addition of chemotherapy to standard radiotherapy improves the rate and length of disease-free survival for those children with mb/pnet who have the most extensive tumors at diagnosis . it remains to be determined which drug or drug combinations are the most effective in mb/pnet , and which patients are most likely to benefit from chemotherapy . chemotherapy may be useful to reduce or , in selected cases , obviate the need for radiotherapy and reduce treatment-related sequelae . 
general assay for phosphoproteins in cerebrospinal fluid : a candidate marker for paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration . the components of protein phosphorylation systems ( protein kinases , protein phosphatases , and their phosphoprotein substrates ) are highly enriched in neuronal cells compared with other cell types . we exploited this relative neuronal enrichment of protein phosphorylation system components to develop a general assay technique for putative protein kinase substrates ( phosphoproteins ) in human cerebrospinal fluid . using this cerebrospinal fluid phosphoprotein assay , we have detected a putative protein kinase c substrate protein of apparent mr 60 kd in 6 of 14 patients with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration but not in any of 55 patients with a variety of other neurological diseases . phosphoproteins in cerebrospinal fluid may provide novel and unique markers for the diagnosis or staging of neuronal diseases as well as offer potential insights into the biochemical characterization of affected neuronal populations . 
comparative in vitro activities of newer quinolones against pseudomonas species and xanthomonas maltophilia isolated from patients with cancer . the in vitro susceptibilities of three pseudomonas species ( pseudomonas aeruginosa , pseudomonas putida , and pseudomonas fluorescens ) and xanthomonas maltophilia to quinolone antimicrobial agents were determined . several newer agents , particularly pd117558 , pd117596 , pd127391 , sparfloxacin ( at-4140 ) , a-56620 , and temafloxacin , were active against pseudomonas species . x. maltophilia isolates were generally less susceptible than were pseudomonas isolates but were inhibited by some of the newer quinolones . 
therapeutic outcome of patients suffering from malignant melanomas of the conjunctiva . eighty-one cases of conjunctival melanoma treated between 1960 and 1988 were studied to determine factors that might affect outcome in patients with such lesions . the therapeutic procedures performed were local excision ( 16 ) , local excision followed by brachytherapy with sr-90 / y-90 ( 32 ) , local excision followed by cryotherapy with liquid nitrogen ( 16 ) , brachytherapy with sr-90 / y-90 ( 12 ) , local excision followed by external beam irradiation ( 3 ) , and local excision followed by brachytherapy and cryotherapy ( 2 ) . the median follow-up period was 5.5 years ( longest 26 , shortest 1 year ) . sixty two patients ( 76.5 % ) showed a complete regression of the melanoma , 19 ( 23.5 % ) developed recurrences , and 15 ( 18.5 % ) died from metastases . the melanomas had developed with almost equal frequency from a pre-existing naevus ( 25.9 % ) , from primary acquired melanosis ( 25.9 % ) , and ' de novo ' ( 30.9 % ) . small tumours had a higher chance of regressing ( 80.6 % ) than larger ones ( 68.6 % ) . the cumulative survival rate was 76 % after five years and 60 % after 10 years from any causes of death and 87.6 % after five years and 76.3 % after 10 years from deaths caused by metastases . most deaths from metastases occurred within 5 years . at 88.5 % , the cumulative survival rate of patients with small tumours ( less than one quadrant of the bulbar conjunctiva and less than 2 mm thickness ) was significantly higher than that of patients with larger tumours ( more than one quadrant of the bulbar conjunctiva and/or more than 2 mm thickness ) with 65 % after eight years . local excision followed by beta ray irradiation ( sr-90 / y-90 ) or cryotherapy can be recommended as the treatment of choice . nevertheless the behaviour of conjunctival melanomas remains unpredictable in individual cases . 
malignant fibrous histiocytoma of the conjunctiva . malignant fibrous histiocytoma ( mfh ) of the conjunctiva is an extremely rare tumour , and only three previous cases have been reported . we describe two patients with mfh of the conjunctiva : a 58-year-old white male with epibulbar tumour who had exenteration and is alive after five years ' follow-up , and a 3 1/2 - year-old african girl with xeroderma pigmentosum and an mfh of her right eye conjunctiva , the first reported case of this association . the characteristics and the methods of diagnosis of mfh are discussed . 
increased lysis of patient cd10-positive leukemic cells by t cells coated with anti-cd3 fab ' antibody cross-linked to anti-cd10 fab ' antibody . an anti-cd3 fab ' x anti-cd10 fab ' bispecific hybrid f ( ab ' ) 2 antibody ( ab ) was generated . this bispecific ab had a molecular mass of 100 to 110 kd , and the capacity to react with both cd3 + t cells and cd10 + acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) cells . we studied whether cytotoxic t lymphocytes ( ctls ) could lyse patient cd10 + all cells after addition of the bispecific ab . as effector ctls , interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) - stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( pbmcs ) and ctl clones were used . when il-2-stimulated pbmcs were assayed for cytotoxicity to 61cr-labeled cd10 + all cells , their activity was shown to be markedly enhanced by the addition of the bispecific ab . most of the ctl clones established lacked cytotoxicity for cd10 + all cells , but addition of the bispecific ab induced a significant level of cytotoxicity . ctls derived from all patients also showed significant cytotoxicity for autologous cd10 + all cells after addition of the bispecific ab . however , this ab did not affect the cytotoxicity of ctls when cd10 - leukemic cells were used as the targets . these findings suggest that the bispecific ab can be used for immunotherapy in patients with cd10 + all . 
philadelphia chromosome and monosomy 7 in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia : a pediatric oncology group study . during an 8-year period , 3,638 children from institutions of the pediatric oncology group ( pog ) were diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) . fifty-seven patients had philadelphia chromosome-positive ( ph1 ) all . blast cells obtained at diagnosis from 13 of these 57 cases ( 23 % ) were also found to have partial or complete monosomy 7 ( -7 ) . this subgroup of children with ph1 / -7 all was comprised primarily of older males with early b-lineage all . bone marrow specimens from six ph1 / -7 patients were studied further using the polymerase chain reaction and primers that flank the all , and chronic myelogenous leukemia breakpoints to determine the molecular characteristic of the 9 ; 22 translocation . rearrangements were detected in rna from bone marrow and/or peripheral blood cells of six patients , although four were in hematologic remission at the time of the analysis . five cases showed the all breakpoint , while one child with ph1 / -7 showed the chronic myelogenous leukemia breakpoint . the induction failure rate was much higher in this subgroup ( 31 % ) as compared with ph1-negative cases , and the projected duration of event-free survival reflected the aggressive nature of this subgroup because no children are projected to remain in remission at 2 years . all with both the 9 ; 22 translocation and -7 appears to represent a unique and previously undescribed subgroup of childhood all associated with a particularly adverse outcome . leukemic transformation in such patients may involve the interaction of a dominant oncogene ( ph1 ) and a tumor suppressor gene ( -7 ) . 
preliminary studies for an immunotherapeutic approach to the treatment of human myeloma using chimeric anti-cd38 antibody . multiple myeloma is a disease in which conventional chemotherapy has only limited value , but which may be ideal for treatment with passive antibody against a suitable cell surface antigen on the neoplastic plasma cell . the cd38 antigen is known to be present on the majority of neoplastic plasma cells , and this was confirmed by detailed examination of bone marrow aspirates from three patients . strong expression of cd38 was confined to cells which , by the criteria of light-scattering profiles and possession of cytoplasmic ig , were plasma cells . the vast majority of neoplastic plasma cells appeared to be involved . using a cell line as a model , it was found that the cd38 antigen acts as a target for a chimeric antibody prepared from the antibody okt10 . the chimeric antibody consists of the fab portion of the mouse monoclonal antibody linked by a stable thioether bond to an fc molecule derived from human igg1 , thereby forming mouse fab-human fc . in contrast to the parent antibody , the chimeric molecule mediates antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity ( adcc ) very efficiently with human blood mononuclear effector cells , and is effective at low concentration . also , even though the cd38 antigen is present on natural killer cells , there appears to be little deleterious action of the antibody on effector cell function . the antibody also failed to affect the growth of progenitor cells of the granulocyte/macrophage or erythroid lineages present in normal bone marrows , despite the suspicion that these cells express the antigen . other advantages of the cd38 molecule are that it is not found in the serum of patients with myeloma , and it does not appear to modulate in vitro . fourteen patients with florid myeloma and on various chemotherapeutic regimes had an undiminished capacity to mediate adcc with the chimeric antibody , when compared with normal individuals . the maintenance of adcc activity , coupled with the known suppression of the antibody response in these patients , augers well for treatment with chimeric antibody . 
nb4 , a maturation inducible cell line with t ( 15 ; 17 ) marker isolated from a human acute promyelocytic leukemia ( m3 ) . acute promyelocytic leukemia ( apl ) is a well-defined entity among acute leukemia , cytogenetically characterized by a t ( 15 ; 17 ) ( q22 ; q11-12 ) translocation . in vitro and in vivo studies suggest that all-trans retinoic acid ( ra ) treatment restores cell maturation . we have isolated the first permanent cell line with t ( 15 ; 17 ) , derived from the marrow of a patient with apl in relapse . the establishment of the cell line , its morphologic , karyotypic , and immunohistochemical features are reported . ra induced cell line maturation . cells strongly expressed myeloid markers , but also some t-cell markers . additional karyotypic abnormalities , a 12p rearrangement and the possible presence of a homogeneous staining region ( hsr ) on 19q + are discussed both in relation to t-cell ( cd2 , cd4 ) and monocyte ( cd9 ) markers , and to the acquired cell growth autonomy . the cell line represents a remarkable tool for biomolecular studies . 
interphase cytogenetic analysis detects minimal residual disease in a case of acute lymphoblastic leukemia and resolves the question of origin of relapse after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation . we used in situ hybridization with a probe for the x chromosome to study interphase cells of bone marrow and peripheral blood specimens from a male patient with acute lymphoblastic leukemia characterized by hyperdiploidy , including trisomy x. in a posttreatment bone marrow specimen , which was interpreted as a regenerating bone marrow morphologically and which demonstrated a normal karyotype cytogenetically , trisomy x was found in 16 of 1,000 interphase cells . this finding indicated the presence of leukemic cells that were undetected by conventional morphologic and cytogenetic techniques ( ie , minimal residual disease ) . cytogenetic studies of a relapse specimen obtained after a sex-mismatched bone marrow transplant showed only a normal female karyotype in each of 40 metaphase cells , suggesting that the relapse occurred in donor cells . however , interphase analysis demonstrated trisomy x in more than 80 % of interphase cells and indicated that the relapse was of the original clone and was not a transformation of donor cells . this case illustrates that interphase analysis can be useful as an adjunct to conventional cytogenetic analysis in the detection of minimal residual disease and in the analysis of interphase cells that are not accessible to routine cytogenetic methods . it also illustrates that previously reported instances of relapse of leukemia in donor cells could have been incorrect if supported by cytogenetic data alone . 
selective hypersensitivity to granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor by juvenile chronic myeloid leukemia hematopoietic progenitors . juvenile chronic myelogenous leukemia ( jcml ) is a good model for the study of myeloproliferation because jcml hematopoietic progenitor cells grow in vitro at very low cell densities without the addition of exogenous stimulus . previous studies have demonstrated that this proliferation is dependent on granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) , and that removal of monocytes from the cell population before culture eliminates this " spontaneous " myeloproliferation , suggesting a paracrine role of monocyte stimulation . however , subsequent studies have shown that increased gm-csf production from the jcml monocytes is not a consistent finding and therefore not a plausible sole mechanism . in examining hematopoietic growth factor dose-response curves , both jcml gm and erythroid nonadherent progenitor cell populations displayed a marked and selective hypersensitivity to gm-csf . responses to interleukin-3 and g-csf were identical to control dose-response curves . this is the first demonstration of a myeloid leukemia in which hypersensitivity to a specific growth factor appears to be involved in the pathogenesis of the disease . 
expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( cd54 ) on hematopoietic progenitors . the distribution of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( icam-1 ) , a ligand for lymphocyte function antigen-1 , on hematopoietic tissue was determined using the anti-icam-1 monoclonal antibody cl203 .4 with flow cytometry and short-term semi-solid hematopoietic progenitor cultures . after timed incubation in media with fetal bovine serum , 29 % of erythroid burst-forming units ( bfu-e ) , 24 % of erythroid colony-forming units ( cfu-e ) , and 52 % of granulocyte-macrophage colony-forming units ( cfu-gm ) bone marrow progenitors expressed icam-1 . this finding , which is consistent with the detection of icam-1 on acute non-lymphoblastic leukemic blasts , is at variance with recent reports . icam-1 was also detected on bone marrow blasts , proerythroblasts , promyelocytes , and cells of monocyte/macrophage lineage , but was not detected on erythroblasts , normoblasts , neutrophilic myelocytes , metamyelocytes , bands , or on most lymphocytes . these results indicate that maturation of cells of the erythroid and myeloid lineage is associated with loss of icam-1 . the distribution of icam-1 on bone marrow progenitors , early precursor cells , and accessory cells in conjunction with the function of this molecule in cell-cell interactions suggests that icam-1 may play a role in the cell-cell and cell-stromal interactions that regulate hematopoiesis . 
synergistic effects of nerve growth factor and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor on human basophilic cell differentiation . we have recently shown that nerve growth factor ( ngf ) promotes human granulopoiesis , specifically augmenting basophilic cell differentiation observed in methylcellulose hematopoietic colony assays of human peripheral blood . because the ngf effect was seen in the presence of conditioned medium derived from a human t-cell line ( mo-cm ) containing granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) , we examined interactions of purified ngf and recombinant human gm-csf ( rhgm-csf ) on granulocyte growth and differentiation . rhgm-csf stimulated a dose-dependent increase in methylcellulose colony growth at concentrations between 0.1 u/ml and 10 u/ml , and in the presence of ngf at 500 ng/ml this effect was enhanced . the number of basophilic cell colony-forming units ( cfu-baso ) and histamine-positive colonies increased synergistically when ngf was added to rhgm-csf . furthermore , because mo-cm acts with sodium butyrate to promote basophilic differentiation of alkaline-passaged myeloid leukemia cells , hl-60 , we also examined the interaction of ngf and mo-cm or rhgm-csf using this assay . in the presence of ngf , mo-cm at concentrations of 0.5 % to 20 % vol/vol , and rhgm-csf at concentrations of 0.1 u/ml to 100 u/ml synergistically increased histamine production by butyrate-induced , alkaline-passaged hl-60 cells ; this was associated with the appearance of metachromatic , tryptase-negative , ige receptor-positive cells . the effects of rhgm-csf or mo-cm were completely abrogated by a specific anti-rhgm-csf neutralizing antibody in methylcellulose , with or without ngf ; the ngf synergy with rhgm-csf in the hl-60 assay was also inhibited by either anti-rhgm-csf or anti-ngf antibody . these studies support the notion that differentiation in the basophilic lineage may be enhanced by ngf acting to increase the number of gm-csf-responsive basophilic cell progenitors . 
tumor necrosis factor regulates the expression of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor and interleukin-3 receptors on human acute myeloid leukemia cells . tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) acts as a potent enhancer of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) - and interleukin-3 ( il-3 ) - induced human acute myeloid leukemia ( aml ) growth in vitro . we have analyzed the effects of tnf alpha on the expression of gm-csf and il-3 receptors on aml cells . incubation of blasts from seven patients with aml in serum-free medium with tnf ( 10 ( 3 ) u/ml ) and subsequent binding studies using 125i-gm-csf and 125i-il-3 show that tnf increases the specific binding of gm-csf ( 30 % to 280 % ) and il-3 ( 40 % to 600 % ) in all cases . from scatchard plot analysis it appears that tnf upregulates ( 1 ) low-affinity gm-csf binding sites , ( 2 ) common high-affinity il-3 / gm-csf binding sites , and ( 3 ) unique ( non-gm-csf binding ) il-3 binding sites . the effect of tnf is dose dependent and is half maximal at a concentration of 100 u/ml , and becomes evident at 18 hours of incubation with tnf at 37 degrees c , but not at 0 degree c. the gm-csf dose-response curve of aml-colony-forming units plateaus at a higher level in the presence of tnf , which indicates that additional numbers of cells become responsive to gm-csf . incubation of aml blasts with the phorbol ester 12-0-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate or formyl-met-leu-phe ( protein kinase c activators ) does not influence gm-csf receptor expression , suggesting that receptor upregulation by tnf is not mediated through activation of protein kinase c. on the other hand , the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide abrogates receptor upregulation induced by tnf . in contrast to these findings in aml , tnf does not upregulate gm-csf receptor numbers on blood granulocytes or monocytes . we conclude that tnf exerts positive effects on growth factor receptor expression of hematopoietic cells . 
genetics of common diseases of adulthood . implications for prenatal counseling and diagnosis . genetic factors play an important role in the development of many common diseases of adulthood that result in early morbidity and mortality . prevention of these disorders and their sequelae is best established through early detection and early intervention . although it may be feasible to screen the entire population for some disorders ( e.g. , hypertension ) , this approach would be expensive and impractical for others ( e.g. , colon cancer ) . the family history provides an inexpensive and convenient method of identifying families at risk for premature diseases of adulthood . family screening for a disorder should be recommended if there is increased risk for the disorder among family members , if screening methods are available to detect the condition at an early age or preclinical stage , and if early intervention will alter the course of the disease . for many disorders screening and intervention can prevent the occurrence of clinical disease . the prenatal counseling session affords an ideal setting for identifying families at risk for diseases of adulthood with major genetic components . by reviewing the family history , key family members can be identified and investigated , in order to establish a specific genetic diagnosis . at-risk relatives can then be counseled and screened for the disorder preclinically and premorbidly . the screening and intervention available for a disease depends on the nature of the disorder , our understanding of its physiology and etiology , and our current technology . the disorders discussed earlier are typical of conditions of adulthood that are influenced strongly by genetic factors , especially when they appear in younger adults . atherosclerosis , colon cancer , and diabetes are complex phenotypes . each can be caused by single-gene defects , but commonly the genetics are more complex . empiric data help to establish the risk to an individual in the latter cases . in all three examples , early detection should lead to treatment , which can prevent more serious sequelae : by treating the dyslipidemia , coronary artery disease can be prevented ; by removing the benign polyp , malignant cancer can be avoided ; and when impaired glucose tolerance is detected , diet and exercise can prevent or delay frank diabetes and its complications . the complete evaluation of individuals at risk for disorders such as those in table 1 and their families can be a complicated task . referral to a center experienced in the genetics of common diseases often may be necessary . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
pneumocystis carinii pneumonia complicating multiple myeloma . pneumocystis carinii pneumonia complicated the course of two patients with multiple myeloma . the diagnosis was established in both cases by bronchoalveolar lavage , which demonstrated the typical pneumocysts . clinical and roentgenographic improvement in both patients was observed following a course of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole . one patient had lymphocyte subsets performed with a cd4/cd8 ratio of 0.8 ; both patients were hiv antibody-negative by elisa . both patients tolerated prophylactic tmp-smx given concurrently with the subsequent chemotherapy for myeloma . we suggest that the immune defect seen in multiple myeloma may have placed these patients at risk for opportunistic infections such as p carinii pneumonia ; however , as opposed to patients with aids , our patients tolerated therapy with tmp-smz quite well . 
left atrial bacterial mural endocarditis . an unusual case of staphylococcus aureus endocarditis confined to the mural left atrium is presented . echocardiographic studies revealed a 1.5 x 2.0-cm vegetation mimicking a myxoma situated in the path of a mitral regurgitant jet on a color doppler test . emboli to upper and lower extremities and brain complicated the patient 's preoperative course . surgical excision and pathologic examination confirmed this rare occurrence . 
central neurogenic hyperventilation in invasive laryngeal carcinoma . we describe a patient with central neurogenic hyperventilation secondary to extension of a laryngeal tumor into the base of the brain , resulting in extrinsic compression of the medulla . such an association has not been previously described . unique features which distinguish this patient from previously reported cases are emphasized . possible mechanisms involved in pathogenesis , as well as types of therapy , are outlined . 
ampullary tumor caused by metastatic renal cell carcinoma . in this paper we report the case of a renal cell carcinoma ( rcc ) metastatic to the ampullary region . the patient presented with severe anemia due to blood loss from the ampullary tumor 11 years after nephrectomy for the primary renal cancer . the diagnosis was established by means of endoscopy and biopsy . 
expression of laminin and its receptor lbp-32 in human and rat hepatoma cells . dramatic cellular changes that occur during hepatocarcinogenesis are associated with major alterations in extracellular matrix formation and in the relationships between cells and their microenvironment . we have studied the expression of laminin , the major noncollagenous glycoprotein of basement membrane , and the laminin receptor 32 kd laminin-binding protein in two rat ( faza 967 and htc ) and two human ( hepg2 and hbgc2 ) hepatoma cell lines that express a variety of liver-specific functions . laminin was found in the rough endoplasmic reticulum of these cells when the indirect immunoperoxidase method and electron microscopic examination were used . radiolabeled laminin , immunoprecipitated from both media and cell extracts , was resolved by electrophoresis on sodium dodecyl sulfate gel in two major polypeptides that comigrated with the a and b subunits from engelbreth-holm-swarm tumor laminin . immunoblot analysis showed that the mr = 400,000 polypeptide did not correspond to the a subunit of laminin . northern blot analyses demonstrated large amounts of b1 and b2 mrnas but no a chain mrna . we conclude that the tumor cells produce the laminin b chains only . in contrast , normal adult hepatocytes from either man or rat lacked laminin mrnas , whereas in 1-day primary culture , b chain mrnas became detectable . the steady-state level of 32 kd laminin-binding protein mrna was 10-fold and threefold higher in rat hepatoma cells than in freshly isolated and 1-day cultured normal rat hepatocytes , respectively . in human hepatocytes , the steady-state levels of 32 kd laminin-binding protein mrnas varied depending on the donor and never reached the level of the human hepatoma cells . 
differences in glycolytic capacity and hypoxia tolerance between hepatoma cells and hepatocytes . viability , glycolytic capacity and energy metabolism under anaerobic conditions were studied in the hepatoma cell lines htc , fu5 and hepg2 and in rat and human hepatocytes using glucose and fructose as glycolytic precursors . during 6 hr of anaerobic incubation without additional substrate , viability decreased rapidly in fu5 and htc cells , whereas viability of hepg2 cells was not significantly affected . in all tumor cells , 10 mmol/l glucose prevented hypoxic cell injury almost completely . lactate formation from glucose was about five times higher than in hepatocytes under these circumstances . atp content of the tumor cells remained almost constant under anaerobic conditions in the presence of glucose . ten millimoles per liter of fructose diminished glycolysis in the hepatoma cells compared with glucose , ranging from 87 % reduction in htc cells to 43 % reduction in hepg2 cells . accordingly , atp content decreased rapidly in the fu5 and slowly in the hepg2 cells . viability was strongly diminished in the htc and fu5 cells in the presence of fructose , whereas in the hepg2 cells no effect of fructose on viability was detectable . in contrast to the hepatoma cells , rat and human hepatocytes exhibited higher rates of anaerobic glycolysis in the presence of fructose and thus were able to maintain their viability under these conditions . these differences in glycolytic capacity , energy metabolism and hypoxia tolerance of hepatoma cells compared with hepatocytes may be used for the treatment of liver cancer by isolated liver perfusion and ex situ revision of the organ . 
cyclosporine enhances the growth of carcinogen-induced enzyme-altered foci in rat liver . cyclosporine , a powerful immunosuppressant , has been used successfully for organ transplantation . its efficacy on liver transplants of patients with primary hepatic tumors remains controversial because of a high rate of recurrence of the original tumors in the transplanted livers . in this study , we experimentally tested whether cyclosporine exerts any effects on the growth of carcinogen-initiated liver cells using the short-term assays of rat liver carcinogenesis . dietary cyclosporine , which maintained sufficient levels of blood cyclosporine and suppressed host immune functions , enhanced the development of the glutathione s-transferase , placental form-positive hepatocyte foci in the liver of male f-344 rats treated with a single weekly dose of diethylnitrosamine ( 75 mg/kg ) for 3 wk . dietary cyclosporine also accelerated the growth of preformed glutathione s-transferase , placental form-positive foci induced by a single dose of diethylnitrosamine ( 250 mg/kg ) followed by the promoting regimen of a choline-deficient diet . it is possible that the enhancement of the size of hepatocyte foci by cyclosporine could be due to stimulation of growth or inhibition of regression . the mechanisms by which cyclosporine modifies the growth of preneoplastic lesions in the liver are not yet fully understood . possible involvement of immunologically relevant cells in the liver , kupffer cells and pit cells in the process is suggested . 
regulation of insulin-like growth factor ii gene expression by hepatitis b virus in hepatocellular carcinoma . in this study we investigated the regulation of insulin-like growth factor ii gene expression to explain a role for this growth factor in concert with hepatitis b virus involvement in the development of hepatocellular carcinoma from cirrhosis . sections of normal liver and tumor and non-tumor-bearing liver disease tissue were hybridized in situ with [ 35s ] - labeled insulin-like growth factor ii oligonucleotide probe . parallel sections were tested for presence of insulin-like growth factor ii polypeptide using immunohistochemistry . to investigate a possible role for hepatitis b virus in insulin-like growth factor ii gene expression in hepatocellular carcinoma , results were analyzed against patient seropositivity for hepatitis b virus . levels of insulin-like growth factor ii transcripts in normal liver ( n = 4 ) sections and in those from non-tumor-bearing individuals ( n = 10 ) were so low that specific signal was not detectable above homogeneous tissue background . in contrast , 4 of 8 ( 50 % ) of the sections of hepatocellular carcinoma arising from cirrhosis or noncirrhotic chronic liver disease with hepatitis b virus involvement showed increased expression of insulin-like growth factor ii messenger rna transcripts . up-regulation was observed in cell foci in the hepatocellular regions of the surrounding cirrhotic lobular cells and the fibrous septa . numerous cell foci were observed in patch distribution in the tumor areas . the level of insulin-like growth factor ii messenger rna transcripts in sections of hepatocellular carcinoma arising from cirrhotic and noncirrhotic tissues obtained from patients seronegative for hepatitis b virus was similar to that of normal liver . 
hepatitis b virus integration in hepatitis b virus-related hepatocellular carcinoma in childhood . in taiwan , hepatocellular carcinoma is one of the major malignancies in children between 5 and 14 yr of age . we studied the status of hepatitis b virus dna in the hepatocellular carcinoma and nontumorous liver tissues of eight children with positive serum hbsag and maternal hbsag . the hepatocellular carcinoma tissues from five of the eight children showed integration of hepatitis b virus dna into host cellular dna sequences . a pattern of single-site integration in four children and a multiple-site integration pattern in one child were demonstrated . in the remaining three children , hepatitis b virus dna could not be demonstrated in the tumor tissues . using subgenomic fragments of the hepatitis b virus genome as probes , we found that the x gene fragment and the surface antigen gene fragment were the most conserved sequences . the single-site integration of hepatitis b virus dna in childhood hepatocellular carcinoma may have hit the critical region , resulting in insertional mutagenesis and early development of hepatocellular carcinoma . with a short incubation period and less exposure to environmental carcinogens during early life , childhood hepatocellular carcinoma may provide a good model to study the carcinogenic potential of hepatitis b virus . 
incidence of hairy cell leukemia , mycosis fungoides , and chronic lymphocytic leukemia in first known htlv-ii-endemic population . unlike human t cell leukemia-lymphoma virus type i ( htlv-i ) , htlv-ii has not been convincingly linked to a malignancy . in the first 10 months of serologic screening for htlv-i/ii among blood donors in new mexico in 1988-1989 , htlv-i/ii infection was found in 27 donors . htlv-i/ii infection was present in 1.0 % -1.6 % of american indian and 0.16 % -0.27 % of hispanic donors compared with 0.009 % -0.06 % of non-hispanic white donors . htlv-ii was identified by dna amplification in 12 of 13 samples from indian and hispanic seropositive donors . despite apparent endemic htlv-ii infection in these populations , new mexico tumor registry data showed that the incidences of hairy cell leukemia , mycosis fungoides , and chronic lymphocytic leukemia were comparable among the three ethnic groups . a population with endemic htlv-ii infection has been identified , and there is no evidence of increased risk for these three malignancies in the endemic groups . 
changes in plasma high density lipoprotein cholesterol and phospholipid in acute viral hepatitis and cholestatic jaundice . forty-four male and female subjects aged 22-57 years were studied . thirteen patients had acute viral hepatitis , and eleven patients had cholestatic jaundice due to carcinoma of the head of the pancreas . twenty healthy volunteers who served as controls were also included . in hepatitis patients , the mean plasma levels of total cholesterol ( tc ) and the high density lipoprotein ( hdl ) - phospholipid/phospholipid ( hdlpl/pl ) ratio were reduced , and hdl-cholesterol ( hdlc ) , hdl-phospholipid ( hdlpl ) and the phospholipid/total cholesterol ( pl/tc ) ratio were normal , while total phospholipid ( pl ) levels and the hdlc/tc ratio were significantly increased compared to the control values . in patients with cholestatic jaundice the mean plasma total cholesterol , phospholipid and hdlc levels were elevated , and hdlpl/pl , hdlpl , hdlc/tc and pl/tc remained normal compared to the control values . a comparison within the patient groups showed that plasma tc , pl and hdlc levels were significantly increased in cholestatic jaundice when compared with the corresponding levels in hepatitis patients . the mean plasma levels of hdlpl , hdlc/tc and pl/tc did not show any significant variation within the patient groups . alkaline phosphatase ( alp ) correlated positively with tc , and total protein correlated negatively with tc and hdlpl , while albumin correlated negatively with tc , hdlc and hdlpl in cholestatic jaundice . alanine amino-transferase ( alat ) also correlated positively with pl in cholestatic jaundice , while albumin correlated positively with tc in hepatitis . the results suggest that lipoproteins might be metabolized differently in these two forms of cholestasis . 
serum erythropoietin levels in the anaemia of chronic disorders . serum erythropoietin ( s-epo ) levels were measured in 50 patients with anaemia of chronic disorders ( acd ) , classified into three groups according to their aetiology : inflammatory ( n = 20 ) , infectious ( n = 15 ) and neoplastic ( n = 15 ) . the inflammatory group showed a higher mean s-epo level ( mean value + / - sem , 69 + / - 11 mu ml-1 ) than the neoplastic ( 43 + / - 5 mu ml-1 ; p less than 0.05 ) and infectious groups ( 27 + / - 4 mu ml-1 ; p less than 0.01 ) . the s-epo level in the inflammatory group also differed from that of 32 healthy controls ( 36 + / - 3 mu ml-1 ; p less than 0.05 ) . fourteen patients with added iron deficiency ( 12 subjects from the inflammatory group ) showed the highest s-epo concentration ( 72 + / - 17 mu ml-1 ) . conversely , s-epo levels were lower in febrile subjects ( 12 patients with infection and five with malignancy ) than in non-febrile patients ( 28 + / - 4 mu ml-1 vs. 55 + / - 7 mu ml-1 ; p less than 0.01 ) . in the infectious group , the logarithm of s-epo correlated directly with the haemoglobin and haematocrit values . we conclude that differences in s-epo concentration in acd may be further related to the patient 's iron stores and temperature . a decrease in epo production may contribute to the pathogenesis of acd secondary to infection . 
high cardiac output as a paraneoplastic syndrome . a high cardiac output ( 17 1 min-1 ) was recorded in a young man suffering from lymphoplasmatocytotic lymphoma . the evolution of the blood disease was characterized by two relapses , during which clinical signs of heart failure were prominent but resolved with efficient blood chemotherapy . the known aetiologies of high cardiac output were excluded . the complete normalization of the cardiac parameters with blood remission suggests that the high cardiac output represented an unusual paraneoplastic syndrome , the pathogenesis of which still remains unknown , although several hypotheses were tested . 
the vascularized fibula graft in mandibular reconstruction . the use of a vascularized graft from the fibula for mandibular reconstruction is presented . the great strength , pliability , and long vascular pedicle that characterize such grafts make them particularly suitable for this type of repair . the results in six cases were highly satisfactory . masticatory function was well restored , without alteration of the facial contour , and with minimal sequelae at the donor site . 
fine-needle aspiration biopsy of head and neck lesions . the case records of 213 fine-needle aspiration biopsies ( fnab ) of head and neck masses performed on 209 patients over a 3-year period were reviewed to assess the diagnostic accuracy and safety of this technique in comparison with surgical histologic examination . cytologic diagnoses based on fnab were compared with histologic diagnoses in 110 patients who underwent surgery . based on cytology alone , 40.3 % of the lesions were reported as malignant , 45.1 % as benign , and 14.6 % as indeterminant . a specific cytologic diagnosis was made in 85.5 % of the cases . cytologic diagnoses concurred with surgical histologic diagnoses 90 % of the time . fine-needle aspiration biopsy was found to have a false-positive rate of 0.5 % and a false-negative rate of 2.3 % . the sensitivity and specificity of fnab in determining a malignant diagnosis were 81.1 % and 99 % , respectively . positive and negative predictive values were calculated at 98.9 % and 82.8 % , respectively . diagnostic rate , sensitivity , and negative predictive value increased consistently throughout the study period , indicating that the diagnostic accuracy of fnab improved with experience . 
nasopalatine duct cyst : an analysis of 334 cases . the nasopalatine duct cyst ( npdc ) is the most common cyst of nonodontogenic origin in the maxilla . however , the information reported about this lesion consists primarily of small surveys and isolated case reports . the purpose of this retrospective investigation was to gather demographic , clinical , and histologic data on a large series of npdcs , and to compare the findings with those of previous studies . in this study , the overall mean age at diagnosis was 42.5 years , and there was a slight male predilection . the mean radiographic diameter was 17.1 mm , but 75 % of the lesions were 20 mm or less in diameter . symptoms were present in at least 70 % of the cases . only 28 % of the specimens contained respiratory epithelium . there was no correlation between radiographic size , patient 's age , presenting symptoms , or type of epithelium . recurrence was noted in only 2 % of the cases . 
synergism of herpes simplex virus and tobacco-specific n ' - nitrosamines in cell transformation . previous studies indicate that herpes simplex virus ( hsv ) enhances the carcinogenic activity of smokeless tobacco and tobacco-related chemical carcinogens in animals . since tobacco-specific n ' - nitrosamines ( tsnas ) such as n ' - nitrosonornicotine ( nnn ) and 4 - ( n-methyl-n ' - nitrosamino ) -1 - ( 3-pyridyl ) -1 - butanone ( nnk ) are major chemical carcinogens of smokeless tobacco and are known to be responsible for the development of oral cancers in smokeless tobacco users , the combined effects of tsnas and hsv in cell transformation were investigated . exposure of cells to nnn or nnk followed by virus infection resulted in a significant enhancement of transformation frequency when compared with that observed with chemical carcinogens or virus alone . this study suggests that tsnas and hsv can interact together and show synergism in cell transformation . 
immunohistochemical demonstration of keratin in ameloblastoma as an indication of tumor differentiation . keratin expression was studied immunohistochemically in 27 ameloblastomas using polyclonal antibody against wide-spectrum keratins ( ttl ) and monoclonal antibodies against lower - and higher-molecular-weight keratins ( pkk1 and kl1 ) , respectively , to clarify the tumor differentiation . reactions with ttl and kl1 antibodies were generally positive in the stellate cells of the follicular or acanthomatous ameloblastomas . cell nests of the basal cell type were positive for pkk1 . on the other hand , the reactions with ttl or kl1 in the plexiform type were generally weak or absent . from these facts , it was concluded that the follicular , as well as acanthomatous , ameloblastoma is liable to undergo squamous differentiation , whereas the plexiform ameloblastoma remains in primitive stage of tumor differentiation . 
liposarcoma arising in the cheek : report of a case and review of the literature . the following points can be made about liposarcoma of the oral cavity : 1 ) it is rare and slow growing ; 2 ) it is often mistaken for a benign lesion ; 3 ) there is a direct correlation of microscopic appearance with biological behavior and prognosis ; 4 ) treatment is primarily surgical , with radiation used for selected cases ; and 5 ) the better-differentiated tumors seem to respond more favorably to radiation . 
a cohort study of fat intake and risk of breast cancer . between 1982 and 1987 , 519 newly incident , histologically confirmed cases of breast cancer were identified in a cohort of 56,837 women enrolled in the canadian national breast screening study . these women had completed a dietary questionnaire before the occurrence of their breast cancer , and this has been used to estimate their intake of dietary fat and several other nutrients . there is evidence of a positive association between breast cancer and total fat intake , with a relative risk of 1.35 ( 95 % confidence interval , 1.00-1 .82 ) per 77 g per day , and some evidence of a dose-response relationship ( p = .052 ) . 
genetic analysis as an aid in diagnosis for patients with midline carcinomas of uncertain histologies the tumors of nine patients with carcinomas of uncertain histogenesis ( eight with poorly differentiated carcinomas involving primarily midline structures and one with a diagnosis of seminoma and atypical clinical features ) were studied by cytogenetic and southern blot analyses . four of the eight patients with poorly differentiated carcinomas had abnormalities of chromosome 12 consistent with a diagnosis of germ cell tumor . these abnormalities comprised an i ( 12p ) in two patients and a del ( 12q ) in a third patient detected by cytogenetic analysis and multiple copies of 12p detected by southern blot analysis in a fourth patient . three of these four patients with a diagnosis of germ cell tumor established by genetic analysis achieved a complete response to cisplatin-based chemotherapy . the tumor biopsy of one patient showed a t ( 11 ; 22 ) ( q24 ; q12 ) , and this patient had chemotherapy directed to neuroepithelioma . cytogenetic analysis was unsuccessful for the tumors of three patients ; these tumors did not have multiple copies of 12p detected by southern blot analysis . these patients did not respond to cisplatin-based chemotherapy . one patient with a diagnosis of extragonadal seminoma failed to respond to cisplatin-based chemotherapy and had a second tumor biopsy performed that demonstrated a t ( 8 ; 14 ) ( q24 ; q32 ) . this patient 's diagnosis was changed to a non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . thus , genetic analysis provided a diagnosis in six of nine patients . cytogenetic and molecular analyses are useful clinical tools for the determination of histogenesis in some patients with poorly differentiated carcinomas of uncertain histology . 
disseminated human malignant melanoma in congenitally immune-deficient ( bg/nu/xid ) mice . congenitally immune-deficient bg/nu/xid ( bnx ) mice are severely compromised in their ability to mount t-cell , b-cell , and lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cell responses . successful engraftment of bnx mice with human hematopoietic stem cells has been demonstrated recently . we have investigated the potential use of bnx mice for studies relating to the biology and immunotherapy of human malignant melanoma . the intravenous injection of fresh single-cell suspensions of human malignant melanomas into mice resulted in widely disseminated disease . metastatic spread of human melanoma in bnx mice mimicked that observed in patients : eg , there were numerous tumor nodules identified in the subcutaneous tissues as well as in a variety of visceral organs , including spleen , kidneys , thyroid , adrenals , lungs , heart , and brain . bnx mouse lymph nodes were replaced consistently by human malignant melanoma cells . the presence of human tumor cells in these mice was confirmed by histologic analysis and microcytofluorometry analyses using human melanoma-specific monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) . moreover , human melanoma cells passaged in bnx mice remained lysable in vitro by specifically cytolytic , autologous human tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes ( tils ) . the capacity of fresh human malignant melanoma to disseminate widely in bnx mice may prove valuable not only for study of the biology of metastatic spread but also for studies of the immunotherapy of human melanoma using melanoma-specific mabs and chemotherapeutic agents , as well as human tils and lak cells with or without retrovirus-mediated gene transfer modification . 
a hypothesis : nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs reduce the incidence of large-bowel cancer . nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ( nsaids ) inhibit prostaglandin synthesis and tumor growth in the rodent colon . we assessed nsaid use in relation to risk of human large-bowel cancer in a hospital-based , case-control study of 1326 patients with colorectal cancer and 4891 control patients . for regular nsaid use that continued into the year before interview , the multivariate relative risk estimate was 0.5 ( 95 % confidence interval , 0.4 to 0.8 ) ; the estimate decreased as the duration of use increased , but the trend was not statistically significant . similar results were obtained whether cancer or non-cancer controls were used , and the inverse association was apparent for both colon cancer and rectal cancer in men and women and in subjects younger and older than 60 years . regular nsaid use that had been discontinued at least 1 year previously and non-regular use were not associated with risk . almost all regular nsaid use was of aspirin-containing drugs . the present data suggest that the sustained use of nsaids reduces the incidence of human large-bowel cancer . 
obesity and colorectal adenomatous polyps . obesity has been investigated as a risk factor for various malignancies , including colon cancer . a case-control study was conducted on patients in three colonoscopy practices in new york city to determine possible risk factors for colorectal adenomatous polyps , a known precursor lesion for most cases of colorectal cancer . among 301 case subjects with incidence adenomatous polyps ( 174 men and 127 women ) and 506 control subjects ( 223 men and 283 women ) , an increased risk was observed with increasing body mass index in women ( odds ratio 2.1 , 95 % confidence interval 1.1-4 .0 ; for highest versus lowest quartile , linear trend p = .02 ) . a nonsignificant trend was observed for men . the increased risk seen in women is consistent with prior observations regarding reproductive hormonal and dietary risk factors for colorectal cancer . 
rising incidence of adenocarcinoma of the esophagus and gastric cardia analyses of cancer incidence data from nine areas of the united states revealed steadily rising rates from 1976 to 1987 of adenocarcinomas of the esophagus and gastric cardia . the increases among men in this period ranged from 4 % to 10 % per year , and thus exceeded those of any other type of cancer . in contrast , there were relatively stable trends for squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus and slight declines for adenocarcinoma of more distal portions of the stomach . adenocarcinomas of the esophagus and gastric cardia disproportionately affected white men and rarely occurred among women . by the mid-1980s , among white men , adenocarcinomas accounted for about one third of all esophageal cancers , while cardia cancers accounted for about one half of all stomach cancers with specified subsites . the rising incidence rates and similar demographic patterns point to the need for investigation into the causes of these poorly understood cancers . 
activated protooncogenes in human lung tumors from smokers . fourteen primary human lung tumor dnas from smokers were analyzed for transforming activity by two dna transfection assays . activated protooncogenes were detected in 3 of 11 tumor dnas by the nih 3t3 focus assay , whereas activated protooncogenes were detected in 11 of 13 tumor dnas by the nih 3t3 cotransfection-nude mouse tumorigenicity assay . k - or nras genes activated by point mutation at codons 12 or 61 were detected in a large cell carcinoma , a squamous cell carcinoma , and 5 adenocarcinomas . an hras oncogene activated by a different mechanism was detected in an epidermoid carcinoma . one adenocarcinoma was found to contain an activated raf gene . two unidentified transforming genes were detected in a squamous cell carcinoma dna and two adenocarcinoma dnas . eight of 10 lung adenocarcinomas that had formed metastases at the time of surgery were found to contain ras oncogenes . no significant increase in metastasis was observed in the lung adenocarcinomas that contained one or more 6-kilobase ecori alleles of the lmyc gene . overall , 12 of 14 ( 86 % ) of the lung tumor dnas from smokers were found to contain activated protooncogenes . ras oncogenes appear to play a role in the development of metastases in lung adenocarcinomas . 
influence of chromosomal integration on glucocorticoid-regulated transcription of growth-stimulating papillomavirus genes e6 and e7 in cervical carcinoma cells . in most cervical carcinoma cells the e6 and e7 genes of specific human papillomaviruses are transcribed from viral sequences integrated into host cell chromosomes . glucocorticoids activate the promoter elements of various human papillomaviruses in transient-expression assays . we have analyzed the effect of dexamethasone on the transcription rate of human papillomavirus 18 e6 and e7 genes integrated at different chromosomal sites in four cervical cancer cell lines . dexamethasone led to an increase in the transcription rate of the integrated e6-e7 sequences in c4-1 and c4-2 cells but led to a decrease in sw 756 cells and did not affect the transcription rate in hela cells . however , when the viral promoter elements derived from hela or sw 756 cells , in which dexamethasone does not activate transcription of the integrated e6-e7 sequences , were tested in transient-expression assays within the same cell lines , dexamethasone consistently activated the viral promoter . it thus appears that dominant regulatory mechanisms presumably depending on the chromosomal integration site are able to override the response of the viral promoter to steroid hormones . the growth rate of all dexamethasone-treated cell lines correlated consistently with the expression of the papillomavirus e6 and e7 genes , supporting their role in the maintenance of the proliferative phenotype of cervical carcinoma cells . since human papillomaviruses are integrated into the host cell genome at variable , presumably randomly selected chromosomal loci , regulatory mechanisms that influence viral gene expression , and hence cell growth , may differ among cancers of independent clonal origin . 
human catechol-o-methyltransferase : cloning and expression of the membrane-associated form . a cdna clone for human catechol-o-methyltransferase ( hcomt ; s-adenosyl-l-methionine : catechol o-methyltransferase ; ec 2.1.1.6 ) was isolated from a human hepatoma cell line ( hep g2 ) cdna library by hybridization screening with a porcine cdna probe . the cdna clone was sequenced and found to have an insert of 1226 nucleotides . the deduced primary structure of hcomt is composed of 271 amino acid residues with the predicted molecular mass of 30 kda . at its n terminus it has a hydrophobic segment of 21 amino acid residues that may be responsible for insertion of hcomt into the endoplasmic reticulum membrane . the primary structure of hcomt exhibits high homology to the porcine partial cdna sequence ( 93 % ) . the deduced amino acid sequence contains two tryptic peptide sequences ( t-22 , t-33 ) found in porcine liver catechol-o-methyltransferase ( comt ) . the coding region of hcomt cdna was placed under the control of the cytomegalovirus promoter to transfect human kidney 293 cells . the endogenous comt activity , which was approximately 9.98 units per mg of protein in the untransfected cells , increased to 206 units per mg of protein upon transfection with a plasmid containing the comt cdna . the comt activity of recombinant protein was inhibited competitively ( ic50 = 700 nm ) by the selective comt inhibitor ro 40-7592 . an anti-comt monoclonal antibody recognized , on immunoblots , a major polypeptide with apparent molecular mass of 29 kda , in reasonable agreement with the predicted molecular mass . the recombinant hcomt was shown by immunoblot analysis to be mainly associated with the membrane fraction . rna blot analysis revealed one comt mrna transcript of 1.4 kilobases in hep g2 poly ( a ) + rna . 
stimulation of camp and phosphomonoester production by melanotropin in melanoma cells : 31p nmr studies . a major part of the present understanding of the molecular basis of signal transduction has been gained from in vitro studies using classical biochemical methods . in this study , we used 31p nmr spectroscopy to investigate the response of live m2r mouse melanoma cells to stimulation by melanocyte-stimulating hormone ( msh ; melanotropin ) . in the presence of 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine and a synergistic dose of forskolin ( 1.67 microm ) , msh induced a transient ( approximately 60-min ) rise in the cellular concentration of 3 ' ,5 ' - cyclic adenosine monophosphate ( camp ) , which coincided in time with an equivalent decrease ( approximately 40 % ) in atp . however , no detectable change in phosphocreatine concentration was observed . concomitantly , msh induced a striking and unexpected increase in the concentration of three phosphomonoester ( pme ) metabolites ( approximately 2-fold increase in total pme signal area ) ; one signal has been assigned to phosphoethanolamine . the levels of the pmes remained high for 2-4 hr and declined slowly ( approximately 10 hr ) to basal level , following perfusion with fresh culture medium . the increase in pme was also observed after stimulation with msh alone . in contrast , stimulation with a high dose of forskolin ( 50 microm ) and isobutylmethylxanthine ( 0.2 mm ) , although effective in stimulating the production of camp , did not induce the pme response . evaluation of the cells ' energetics indicated that the enhanced production of phosphoethanolamine is probably not due to ethanolamine phosphorylation . therefore , it is likely to result from hydrolysis of phosphatidylethanolamine by a specific phospholipase c. the response of the pmes appears to be regulated by a camp-independent process , suggesting the existence of an alternative transduction pathway controlled by msh . 
mononuclear phagocytes : a major population of effector cells responsible for rejection of allografted tumor cells in mice . to understand the in situ mechanism of immunological response of recipient animals to allografted tumor cells , the types of cells that infiltrated into the rejection site were examined . when meth a cells ( h-2d ) were given i.p. to an allogeneic [ c57bl/6 ( h-2b ) ] strain of mouse , the tumor cells ceased to grow on the 6th day , accompanied by an i.p. infiltration of leukocytes . the tumor cells were totally eliminated from the peritoneal cavity around the 12th day . the highest cytotoxic activity against meth a cells was obtained with the peritoneal exudate cells harvested on day 8 . on this day , the exudate cells consisted of three populations when examined by flow cytometry , and each was isolated by sorting . each of them appeared to be homogeneous , and they were morphologically identified as lymphocytes ; granulocytes ; and medium-sized , mononuclear , less-granular cells . the cytotoxic activity was confined exclusively to the last population . the effector cells ( h-2b ) were cytotoxic against not only meth a cells ( h-2d ) but also concanavalin a-stimulated allogeneic spleen cells [ c3h/he ( h-2k ) , cba/n ( h-2k ) , a/j ( h-2a ) , balb/c ( h-2d ) , and dba/2 ( h-2d ) strains of mouse ] . the effector cells were totally inert against concanavalin a-activated syngeneic spleen cells [ c57bl/6 ( h-2b ) and c57bl/10 ( h-2b ) strains of mouse ] . the effector cells were phenotypically ( thy-1 .2 - cd3 - lyt-1 - lyt-2 - l3t4 - immunoglobulin - asialo gm1 - ) , morphologically , and functionally distinct from cytotoxic t cells , natural killer cells , and lymphokine-activated killer cells but were adherent mononuclear phagocytes . 
recombinant epstein-barr virus with small rna ( eber ) genes deleted transforms lymphocytes and replicates in vitro . strains of epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) with deletions of the small rna ( eber ) genes were made by homologous recombination using the ebv p3hr-1 strain , which has undergone deletion of the essential transforming gene that encodes the ebv nuclear antigen , ebna-2 , and a dna fragment that was wild type at the ebna-2 locus but from which the eber genes had been deleted . even though the eber and ebna-2 genes are separated by 40 kilobases , selection for transforming p3hr-1 recombinants that required a restored ebna-2 gene resulted in 20 % cotransfer of the eber deletion . eber-deleted recombinants transformed primary b lymphocytes into lymphoblastoid cell lines ( lcls ) , which were indistinguishable form lcls transformed by wild-type ebv in their proliferation , in latency-associated ebv gene expression , and in their permissiveness for ebv replication cycle gene expression . eber-deleted virus from infected lcl clones could infect and growth-transform primary b lymphocytes . these procedures should be applicable to the construction of other ebv recombinants within 40 kilobases of the ebna-2 gene . the eber-deleted ebv recombinants should be useful in further evaluating the role of ebers in ebv infection . 
leukemia initiated by hemopoietic stem cells expressing the v-abl oncogene . we report a mouse model with which to study leukemogenesis initiated by a specific genetic change introduced into a primary lymphoid-myeloid pluripotent stem cell . fetal liver hemopoietic cells were infected with a high titer of helper-free abelson murine leukemia virus ( a-mulv ) and were used to reconstitute lethally irradiated mice . two weeks later , progenies of a single primitive hemopoietic stem cell carrying a specifically integrated a-mulv proviral dna could be detected in both colony-forming units in spleen and myeloid colony-forming cells in the bone marrow . beginning at 3 weeks after transplantation , the recipients developed elevated leukocyte counts , splenomegaly , and increase of blast cells in the peripheral blood . multiple clones of a-mulv-infected cells were infused into each recipient . however , in the same animal , dna extracted from various affected organs and from factor-independent lymphoid and myeloid immortalized cells all contained an identical , specifically integrated proviral genome . the a-mulv-infected stem cells differentiated into various lineages of hemopoietic cells . our data show that the expression of the v-abl oncogene in a primary lymphoid-myeloid hemopoietic stem cell directly initiates leukemogenesis by stimulating factor-independent growth . the monoclonal-type disease development seen in these animals may require the occurrence of an additional genetic event . 
tumoral thrombosis of cerebral venous sinuses : preoperative diagnosis using magnetic resonance phase imaging . intracranial , dural-based neoplasms will not infrequently invade adjacent venous sinuses . therefore , the preoperative diagnosis of venous invasion is important , as it will alter the surgical approach to the lesion . magnetic resonance imaging is a noninvasive means of visualizing the cerebral venous sinuses . the preoperative diagnosis of venous thrombosis can , however , be difficult and confusing with conventional spin-echo magnetic resonance imaging because of variable appearances produced by blood clot degradation products as well as flowing blood . phase magnetic resonance imaging is a simple method that can be acquired simultaneously with conventional spin-echo sequences , and is based primarily on whether protons are stationary or moving . in the context of venous sinus occlusion , phase imaging can demonstrate the presence or absence of blood flow more easily than spin-echo imaging . three cases of dural-based neoplasms are presented that demonstrate the utility of phase imaging in diagnosing tumoral occlusion of the venous sinuses . 
angiotropic intravascular large-cell lymphoma ( malignant angioendotheliomatosis ) : report of a case and review of the literature . we present a case of angiotropic large-cell lymphoma and review the literature in order to define the neurologic features of this rare disorder . this is the first report of gadolinium-dtpa imaging in angiotropic large-cell lymphoma that demonstrates infarcts of multiple ages , as well as striking meningeal enhancement . angiotropic large-cell lymphoma should be suspected in patients with clinical evidence of small and large cerebral vessel disease and diagnosis requires skin , liver , renal , meningeal , or brain biopsy . single modality treatment , using either radiation therapy or steroids , has been ineffective , and new findings of a lymphomatous origin of this neoplasm suggest that combination chemotherapy may be indicated . 
intracranial chordoma in a preadolescent . case report . chordomas are rare tumors derived from notochord remnants occurring primarily in the sacrum , clivus , and cervical regions . exceptionally , these tumors occur in children , though usually in the sacrum . eight cases of clivus chordoma have been described in preteenagers . in this report , a clival chordoma with unusual radiologic features is described in an 11-year-old boy . the literature regarding this entity is reviewed . 
solitary , isolated metastasis from ewing 's sarcoma to the brain : case report . we report a case of a 30-year-old woman who developed an intraparenchymal cerebral metastasis from a ewing 's sarcoma of the chest wall diagnosed and treated 3 years earlier and in apparent remission at the time of the neurological presentation ( seizures ) . the case was complicated by a spontaneous preoperative intratumoral hemorrhage that occurred the morning of the scheduled surgical resection and caused a left dense hemiparesis . the tumor and the hematoma were removed . the patient improved after surgical intervention and a postoperative course of cranial irradiation followed by systemic chemotherapy was given . nineteen months after treatment the patient remains disease-free from the clinical and radiological standpoint . 
treatment of leptomeningeal carcinomatosis with continuous intraventricular infusion of recombinant interleukin-2 . a 42-year-old man developed leptomeningeal carcinomatosis 6 years after treatment of a malignant melanoma . he was treated with two courses of recombinant interleukin-2 , administered as a continuous intraventricular infusion ( 6 x 10e5 u/24 h ) during 5 days . during the first day of the first course he also received 5 x 10e9 lymphokine-activated killer cells intraventricularly . this gave rise to a severe elevation of intracranial pressure , with headaches and meningismus . during the second course no lak cells were administered . this course was tolerated much better . the neurological status did not change during the treatment . recombinant interleukin-2 levels were maintained at about 300 u/ml during both courses . 
relationship of transfusion and infectious complications after gastric carcinoma operations . to determine the effect of transfusion on the incidence of postoperative infection , a retrospective cohort study of 196 patients who underwent surgery for gastric carcinoma in the period from 1985 through 1989 was carried out . seventy-one patients ( 36.2 % ) developed postoperative septic complications ; they had received an average of 4.2 blood units , as compared with 2.7 units received by patients not affected ( p less than 0.0053 ) . the hypothesis of dose-response relationship is supported by the mantel-haenszel test , as applied to the overall results ( p less than 0.01 ) and the results grouped by duration of operation ( p less than 0.02 ) . furthermore , logistic regression analysis shows transfusion to be an independent risk factor in the incidence of infection ( p less than 0.01 ) , as are antibiotic prophylaxis ( p less than 0.015 ) , urinary tract catheterization ( p less than 0.002 ) , and the duration of surgery ( p less than 0.027 ) . this significance is attained after adjustment for age , gender , period of evolution of symptoms ; preoperative infection ( s ) , number of white cells , hemoglobin level and total proteins on diagnosis , location of tumor , tumor , nodes , and metastasis staging , operative technique , drainage of the area of operation , enteral nutrition , and the histologic studies and macroscopic appearance of the tumor . this study is further evidence that transfusion may cause an increased incidence of postoperative infection . 
immunochemical studies on the differential binding properties of two monoclonal antibodies reacting with tn red cells . two monoclonal antibodies ( moabs ) , bric 66 ( igm ) and bric 111 ( igg1 ) , were produced by immunizing mice with ovarian cyst blood group a1 glycoprotein and tn red cells ( rbcs ) , respectively . their specificities were determined by inhibitions using tn sialoglycoproteins ( sgps ) , mucins ( armadillo [ asg ] and ovine [ osg ] submaxillary glycoproteins ) , and monosaccharides . bric 66 agglutinated both tn and group a rbcs and reacted immunohistochemically with both the vascular endothelium and tumor cells from a group a adenocarcinoma , bric 66 was inhibited by n-acetylgalactosamine ( galnac ) , tn sgps , and mucins on both hemagglutination inhibition tests and radioimmunoassay . bric 111 agglutinated tn rbcs only , and it specifically stained tumor cells from a group o patient 's breast carcinoma and a group a patient 's adenocarcinoma . in hemagglutination inhibition tests , bric 111 was readily inhibited by tn sgps , only partially inhibited by galnac , and not inhibited by mucins . in a sensitive radioimmunoassay , bric 111 was inhibitable by galnac . tn sgp was 2000-fold more effective as an inhibitor than the mucins ( asg and desialized osg ) , which contain a high content of terminal alpha-galnac-o-serine ( threonine ) residues . it is postulated that bric 66 is specific for terminal alpha-galnac units in carbohydrate chains . the exclusive reaction of bric 111 with tn sgp indicates a combining site larger than galnac alpha-1 , which probably includes amino acid residues in juxtaposition to galnac in tn sgp . in view of its specific agglutination of tn rbcs , bric 111 is a useful reagent for the examination of polyagglutinable rbcs . 
medullary thyroid cancer . an immunohistochemical and humoral study using six separate antigens the authors investigated the humoral and tissue expression of six antigens associated with medullary thyroid cancer ( mtc ) : calcitonin ( ct ) , calcitonin gene-related peptide ( cgrp ) , carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) , neuron-specific enolase ( nse ) , somatostatin ( srif ) , and thyroglobulin ( tg ) . the antigens were studied in the neoplastic c cells using immunohistochemistry with specific antisera and in the plasma using specific radioimmunoassay . eighteen patients ( 8 male and 10 female patients , aged 12-72 years ) were studied . mean follow-up was 70.7 months ( range , 2-179 months ) . nine patients ( 50 % ) died of their disease after a mean follow-up of 47.2 months ( range , 2-116 months ) . by immunostaining , primary tumors expressed ct and cea in all cases and nse was positive in 90 % , cgrp in 66 % , srif in 63 % , and tg in 58 % . metastatic tissues were positive in all cases of ct staining , 92.8 % of cea , 71.4 % of nse , 73.3 % of cgrp , 38.5 % of srif , and only 13.3 % of tg staining . in positive cases the percentage of positive cells and the degree of staining were variable among the different antigens . the expression of an antigen in the neoplastic cells was associated with the hypersecretion of the corresponding antigen in the circulation in the case of ct and cea . the levels of these antigens were elevated in all patients with metastases and could accurately predict the appearance of new metastases or indicate the effective treatment of previous metastases by surgery . in the case of nse , cgrp , and srif , few patients had increased plasma concentrations of the antigens and these usually occurred during very advanced phases of the disease . detectable levels of serum tg were never observed . when the outcome of the disease was compared with the expression of ct , cea , nse , cgrp , and tg , no correlation could be found . on the contrary , srif expression in the primary tumor could differentiate two groups of patients with different survival rates . srif-positive patients had survival rates of 100 % and 50 % at five and seven years , respectively , whereas srif-negative patients had survival rates of 40 % at five years and 25 % at seven years . 
papillary carcinoma of thyroid with exuberant nodular fasciitis-like stroma . report of three cases . three examples of an unusual morphologic variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma ( ptc ) are reported . the presence of a prominent stromal component resulted in low-power microscopic appearances resembling fibroadenoma , phyllodes tumor , or fibrocystic disease of the breast in two cases . the carcinomatous component grew in the form of anastomosing narrow tubules , clustered glands , solid sheets with or without squamous differentiation , and/or papillae , and exhibited the typical nuclear features of ptc . the abundant stroma had a nodular fasciitis-like quality and was composed of short fascicles of spindle cells separated by varying amounts of mucoid matrix , collagen , and extravasated red blood cells ; this was interpreted as an exuberant mesenchymal reaction to the carcinoma . the importance of recognizing this variant of ptc is that , when one encounters a fibroproliferative lesion of the thyroid , a diligent search should be made for papillary carcinoma . this variant also must be distinguished from the vastly more aggressive papillary carcinomas with anaplastic transformation and the so-called carcinosarcomas . 
small cell carcinomas of the large intestine . the authors studied the clinical and pathologic features of 38 small cell carcinomas of the large intestine . most were located in the right colon . overlying adenomas were present in 45 % and squamous differentiation in 21 % of tumors . endocrine differentiation was present in all tumors by at least one method ; neuron-specific enolase , dense-core granules , and synaptophysin were present in most cases . seventy-one percent of tumors metastasized to the liver ; 64 % of patients were dead at five months follow-up . twenty-one poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas and undifferentiated carcinomas of the large intestine accessioned during the same period showed less endocrine ( 7 of 21 ) and squamous differentiation ( 1 of 15 ) and fewer liver metastases ( 4 of 15 ) than did small cell carcinomas . among all 59 tumors studied , small cell histologic characteristics correlated better with liver involvement than did endocrine markers or other histologic features . small cell carcinomas of the large intestine are aggressive tumors with a propensity for early liver involvement . although there is a spectrum of squamous , endocrine , and glandular features in large bowel tumors of low degrees of differentiation , the identification of a small cell component appears to be most clinically relevant . 
the use of monoclonal antibody 44-3a6 in cell blocks in the diagnosis of lung carcinoma , carcinomas metastatic to lung and pleura , and pleural malignant mesothelioma . monoclonal antibody ( moab ) 44-3a6 recognizes a glandular differentiation-associated antigen and has been used to identify exocrine differentiation in pulmonary carcinomas . the authors assessed its value in the diagnosis of lung carcinomas metastatic to lung/pleura and pleural malignant mesothelioma ( mm ) , using cell blocks derived from cytologic specimens . sixty-three primary lung carcinomas , 31 metastatic adenocarcinomas ( acs ) ( from breast , gastrointestinal tract , or genitourinary tract ) , and 36 mms were immunostained with 44-3a6 , leu-m1 , and anti-carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) . the results confirm the value of 44-3a6 in identifying acs but do not allow distinction between those of pulmonary , breast , git , or ovarian mucinous derivation . endometrial , ovarian serous , and renal acs are essentially nonreactive , as are almost all mms . the occurrence of one positive mm predicates caution in interpreting 44-3a6 positivity in isolation , but , judiciously used with other discriminating antibodies such as leu-m1 and anti-cea , 44-3a6 is of value in the differential diagnosis of acs and mms . further , its applicability to cytologic specimens may obviate the need for more invasive diagnostic procedures and lead to rapid , accurate diagnosis . 
granulomatous prostatitis and poorly differentiated prostate carcinoma . their distinction with the use of immunohistochemical methods . granulomatous prostatitis and poorly differentiated prostate carcinoma can mimic each other both clinically and histologically . to develop criteria useful in resolving problem cases , the authors compared the reactivities of these conditions ( nine cases of granulomatous prostatitis and six cases of poorly differentiated carcinoma ) with a panel of antibodies to cytokeratin ( ae1/3 ) , prostate-specific antigen ( psa ) , prostatic acid phosphatase ( pap ) , lysozyme , antimacrophage m , and leukocyte common antigen ( lca ) . in granulomatous prostatitis , histiocytes were not immunoreactive for pap , psa , or cytokeratin ; however , histiocytes reacted to lysozyme in nine of nine cases , antimacrophage m in seven of nine cases , and lca in one of nine cases . tumor cells from all six carcinoma cases reacted with pap , psa , and cytokeratin ; all failed to react with lysozyme , lca , and antimacrophage m. the authors conclude that granulomatous prostatitis and poorly differentiated carcinoma can be reliably distinguished with immunohistochemical methods . 
automated immunohistochemical estrogen receptor in fixed embedded breast carcinomas . the authors immunohistochemically assessed the presence of estrogen receptor ( er ) in formalin-fixed , paraffin-embedded tissue sections of 68 breast carcinomas by an automated method using pronase ( calbiochem , la jolla , ca ) predigestion and alkaline phosphatase detection ( method 1 ) . these results were compared with those obtained by an automated peroxidase-antiperoxidase method with dnase pretreatment of fixed embedded sections ( method 2 ) , with er immunostain on frozen sections ( method 3 ) , and with biochemical results ( dextran-coated charcoal cytosolic [ dcc ] assay ) . compared with the dcc assay , methods 1 , 2 , and 3 gave sensitivities of 54 % , 25 % , and 89 % , respectively . the sensitivity for method 1 was increased to 74 % in those cases with dcc results showing greater than 50 fmol/mg protein . these findings indicate that er immunohistochemical studies on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues ( as assayed by method 1 ) provide useful clinical information when the results are positive . a negative result , especially if surrounding normal elements are not positive , may indicate no receptors , receptor levels less than 50 fmol/mg protein , or improper tissue preservation . in the absence of fresh tissue for er assay by dcc assay or of frozen sections for immunostaining , and with an understanding of its limitations , this method may be useful . 
ovarian myxoma . a study of two cases with long-term follow-up . two cases of the so-called ovarian myxoma are reported . one was from a 13-year-old girl who had a 31-year follow-up and no evidence of recurrence . the second case , from a 65-year-old woman , recurred intraperitoneally , 19 years after the surgery . both tumors were myxoid , with round to stellate cells . immunohistochemical , electron microscopic ( em ) , and dna flow cytometric ( fcm ) studies were performed on formalin-fixed , paraffin-embedded tissue of the second patient on both the primary tumor and the recurrence . tumor cells expressed vimentin and were focally positive for desmin and myoglobin . em findings suggested a fibroblastic differentiation . an aneuploid cell population was present in the recurrent tumor by dna-fcm studies . only four other cases of so-called ovarian myxoma were reported to date , and the follow-up does not exceed 18 months . the authors conclude that the presence of aneuploidy and the late recurrence of one of their cases suggest that certain ovarian myxomas might behave like low-grade sarcomas . the histogenesis of this tumor remains unsettled , but similarities were found with myxomas in other locations . 
gene rearrangements in the diagnosis of lymphoma/leukemia . guidelines for use based on a multiinstitutional study . the demonstration of immunoglobulin or t-cell receptor gene rearrangements in human lymphoproliferative processes with the use of dna hybridization has gained great popularity as a sensitive laboratory adjunct to diagnostic hematopathology . the fact that nearly all b - or t-cell malignant lymphomas and leukemias have one or more rearranged antigen receptor genes provides a biologic basis for a diagnostic test . to formally analyze the sensitivity , specificity , and reproducibility of gene rearrangements in the diagnosis of human lymphoproliferative disease , the authors conducted a large , multiinstitutional study . through a blinded , controlled approach , gene rearrangement analysis of 275 cases was shown to carry a high correlation with conventional phenotyping and histologic diagnosis , with only minor false-positive and false-negative rates . significantly , no rearrangements were detected in normal lymphoid tissues or carcinomas , sarcomas , or melanomas . in a randomized study of 50 cases , laboratory results showed a high rate of interlaboratory agreement , regardless of the level of previous experience . furthermore , the reproducibility of interpretation of data ( southern blot autoradiograms ) of 192 cases showed high concordance among 11 observers from multiple laboratories . based on these findings , the authors propose a set of guidelines for interpretation of gene rearrangement analysis that , if carefully followed , renders this a highly reproducible , safe , and accurate addition to the diagnostic regimen for human lymphoproliferative processes . 
bone marrow findings after treatment with recombinant human interleukin-3 . in a phase i/ii study , bone marrow biopsy specimens and aspirates of 20 patients with malignant tumors but normal bone marrow ( n = 6 ) , bone marrow failure resulting from chemotherapy ( n = 4 ) , myelodysplastic syndrome ( n = 5 ) , and aplastic anemia ( n = 5 ) were evaluated before and after patients were treated with recombinant human interleukin-3 ( rhil-3 ) . this cytokine proved to be an effective hematopoietic growth factor with only mild side effects . the rhil-3 treatment led to increased overall bone marrow cellularity with trilinear stimulation of hematopoietic cells , except in most patients with aplastic anemia . in all patients , significant eosinophilia and , in some instances , bone marrow fibrosis developed . in addition to the increase in the number of circulating neutrophilic granulocytes , platelets , and reticulocytes , an increase of peripheral blood monocytes and lymphocytes was observed . the histologic and cytologic findings support the concept that rhil-3 stimulates the proliferation and differentiation of pluripotent hematopoietic progenitor cells . it appears to be a safe and efficient therapeutic modality in patients with bone marrow failure . additional clinical studies are needed to determine which patients will profit most from rhil-3 treatment . 
flow cytometric analysis of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase . terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase ( tdt ) is a useful marker for lymphoid precursor cells . in this study , the authors used flow cytometry ( fcm ) to analyze tdt expression in human hematopoietic malignancies . cells were fixed in 0.5 % formaldehyde , briefly exposed to nonionic detergent , and subsequently labeled with mouse monoclonal anti-tdt antibodies followed by fluorescein-conjugated antimouse igg and propidium iodide ( pi ) , which was used for the simultaneous analysis of dna content . cells from 20 of 22 acute lymphoblastic leukemias ( all ) , 4 of 7 mixed lineage leukemias , 2 of 21 acute myeloid and myelomonocytic leukemias , 1 of 2 chronic myeloid leukemias in blast crisis , 1 lymphoblastic lymphoma , and 1 thymoma were tdt positive . cells from 13 nonlymphoblastic lymphomas , 3 myelodysplastic bone marrows , and peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 29 normal individuals were negative . an excellent correlation was seen between this assay , the conventional slide immunofluorescence technique , and an enzyme immunoassay method . the fcm assay detected as few as 2 % blasts in mixing experiments of tdt-containing leukemic cells with normal peripheral lymphocytes . furthermore , the combined analysis of tdt and dna allowed the recognition of aneuploid tdt positive cells in four cases of all . the high sensitivity , the quantitative information obtained , and the capability of simultaneously analyzing dna content make this method of tdt analysis more valuable than conventional techniques . 
renal function after tumor enucleation in a solitary kidney . whether extensive ablation of renal mass in humans leads to progressive glomerulosclerosis , proteinuria , and hypertension , as it does in animal models , is a matter of controversy . we have studied kidney function in six patients who underwent enucleation of a renal cell carcinoma in a solitary kidney . four patients had previously had a nephrectomy . the two others each had one atrophic , nonfunctioning kidney . serum creatinine levels before surgery were within the normal range ( mean , 99.9 mumol/l [ 1.13 mg/dl ] ) . two weeks after tumor enucleation , creatinine levels were significantly higher than the preoperative values ( mean , 124.6 mumol/l [ 1.41 mg/dl ] ) . the follow-up period varied from 10 to 23 months . in all patients , kidney function improved during the following months . serum creatinine levels nearly reached preoperative values in all patients ( mean , 105.2 mumol/l [ 1.19 mg/dl ] ) . none of the patients showed a progressive deterioration in renal function or proteinuria . we found a modest increase in blood pressure in two patients who had been normotensive before surgery . in conclusion , tumor enucleation in a solitary kidney did not cause significant renal injury to the remnant kidneys in our patients , at least in the short term . 
local reactions to radioiodine in the treatment of thyroid cancer . purpose : to compare the rate of local complications resulting from radioiodine ablation of thyroid cancer in patients with a residual intact thyroid lobe to that in patients who had more extensive surgical treatment prior to radioiodine administration . patients and methods : we retrospectively studied 59 patients who had received 131i between 1979 and 1989 . the patients were divided into two groups , depending on the extent of their previous surgical thyroid excision . group 1 comprised 10 patients with a lobectomy or hemithyroidectomy before the ablative radioiodine dose , and group 2 comprised 49 patients with more extensive thyroid excision ( near-total or subtotal thyroidectomy ) before the radioiodine treatment . results : sixty percent of the 10 patients in group 1 experienced some degree of neck pain or tenderness following radioiodine ablation of their residual thyroid . in one case , the local reaction was very severe and accompanied by the development of transient hyperthyroidism . there was only a 6 % local complication rate in the patients who had undergone more extensive thyroid excision before ablative therapy ( p less than 0.001 ) , and none had a severe reaction . conclusions : patients with only unilateral surgical excision before radioiodine therapy have a higher rate of local complications than do patients treated with more extensive surgery prior to radioiodine ablation . if radioiodine is to be employed in such patients , they should be informed of this possible complication . since evidence supports a dose effect in the pathogenesis of the complications , we recommend using a dose of less than 30 mci for the initial ablation in these patients even though it may be necessary to repeat this dose to complete thyroid ablation . 
efficacy of fludarabine , a new adenine nucleoside analogue , in patients with prolymphocytic leukemia and the prolymphocytoid variant of chronic lymphocytic leukemia . purpose : to describe the results of fludarabine therapy in patients with prolymphocytic leukemia ( pll ) and the prolymphocytoid variant of chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( cll-pro ) . patients and methods : seventeen patients with a diagnosis of pll or cll-pro received fludarabine 30 mg/m2 over 30 minutes daily for 5 days every 4 weeks alone ( 12 patients ) , or with prednisone ( five patients ) . previously defined criteria for response were used . differences in response rates according to various characteristics were evaluated by chi-square test . results : three patients ( 18 % ) achieved complete remission , and three ( 18 % ) had a partial remission , for an overall response rate of 35 % . responses were durable and occurred in all involved organ sites . lower response rates were observed in patients with anemia , thrombocytopenia , advanced rai stages , and primary resistance to prior therapy . toxicities were minimal except for febrile episodes associated with therapy . conclusion : fludarabine has shown encouraging results in these patients and deserves further investigation in combination with other active agents , and in the setting of front-line therapy . 
two cases of adult t-cell leukemia associated with acute pancreatitis due to hypercalcemia . we report two cases of adult t-cell leukemia associated with acute pancreatitis and hypercalcemia . after sudden onset of epigastralgia , acute pancreatitis and hypercalcemia were found in both patients . there were no diseases that could explain the acute pancreatitis except for hypercalcemia probably due to adult t-cell leukemia . thus we considered that hypercalcemia due to adult t-cell leukemia had led to acute pancreatitis . this is the first report of such a complication in adult t-cell leukemia . 
suddenly symptomatic brain tumors at altitude . high-altitude cerebral edema can present with a wide variety of neurologic manifestations ; these symptoms resolve with descent . the persistence of neurologic symptoms after descent suggests an intracranial lesion . brain tumors suddenly becoming symptomatic at altitude have not been reported previously . we report three cases of previously unsuspected brain tumors that suddenly became symptomatic at high altitudes . 
melanoma in pregnancy . the clinical course of malignant melanoma in pregnancy has been a subject of controversy , but current evidence indicates that it is similar to the clinical course in non-pregnant patients . early detection and biopsy of localized disease is crucial because early treatment provides an excellent prognosis . surgical excision is the primary therapy for this disease . as the primary care provider for many women in the reproductive age group , obstetrician-gynecologists have an opportunity to detect these lesions at their earliest stages when they are amenable to cure . overall , maternal metastases to the fetus and placenta are very rare events and do not warrant elective termination based on the maternal diagnosis . however , a thorough examination of the infant and placenta should be done in all cases of melanoma complicating pregnancy . after treatment , long-term follow-up is recommended . since most recurrences develop within 3 years after the diagnosis , it remains prudent to recommend that these patients avoid a subsequent pregnancy during this interval . 
surgical staging of cervical cancer . noninvasive radiologic methods to detect paraaortic lymph node metastases are reliable when combined with fna of enlarged lymph nodes . however , the sensitivity is low , and undetected microscopic metastases leads to treatment failure . these patients with paraaortic lymph node metastasis are not treated with extended-field radiation , and they all die within 3 years . the ct scanning is probably the best diagnostic method to evaluate cervical cancer , because it can assess the primary tumor , the urinary tract , gastrointestinal tract , liver parenchyma , and retroperitoneum . it also permits the guidance of fna and the arrangement of radiation ports . surgical staging provides the direct assessment of the peritoneal cavity and the retroperitoneal spaces . metastatic tumor , including enlarged lymph nodes , can be resected , but this is of dubious benefit . the operative morbidity is acceptable , with fewer intestinal complications when the extraperitoneal approach is used , and long-term morbidity is minimal when appropriate paraaortic radiation doses are employed ( less than 5,000 cgy ) . surgical staging has provided data on the frequency of paraaortic lymph node metastasis by stage of cervical cancer , and thus , treatment strategies can be better developed . extended-field radiation results in 5-year survival rates of 20-25 % in patients with microscopic paraaortic lymph node metastasis , patients who would not survive without the treatment . however , surgical staging has produced only a modest boost in survival rates , because of the high rate of pelvic and systemic failure . when extended-field radiation is used prophylactically or in patients with probable lymph node metastasis seen on radiographic studies , survival rates are similar to patients irradiated after surgical staging finds paraaortic lymph node disease . as our ability to predict , and detect nonsurgically , positive paraaortic node disease improves , extended radiation ( or other adjuvant therapy ) could be used more frequently without operation in patients who are at high risk for metastatic disease . in a study by haie et al , prophylactic paraaortic radiation was given to patients at high risk for paraaortic metastasis . in patients with a high probability of local disease control , paraaortic radiation significantly reduced the incidence of paraaortic and distant metastases . patients with known paraaortic lymph node metastases frequently have occult systemic metastases . in these same patients , pelvic failure is also common . thus , until effective systemic therapies emerge , a marked improvement in survival is unlikely in patients who have paraaortic lymph node metastasis . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
surgery or radiation for early cervical cancer . in summary , neither radiation nor surgery is clearly superior . the benefits of surgery include : 1 ) emotional satisfaction that the tumor has been removed , 2 ) accuracy of surgical staging , 3 ) preservation of the ovaries , 4 ) no secondary uterine cancer ( a very uncommon problem ) , and 5 ) complications that are more readily correctable . radiation offers the major advantages of being useful in most patients regardless of age or medical condition and is the choice for large cancers . because stage ib cervical cancer is a very diverse pathological entity with a number of potential prognostic factors ( including cell type , depth of invasion , tumor volume , lymphatic space involvement , and occult lymph node metastases ) , and because patients present with a number of other conditions ( including excess weight , advanced age , prior pelvic surgery or infection , and severe medical illness ) , we are fortunate to have two good methods for treating cervical cancer . prospective randomized studies will be necessary in the future to better define specific advantages in the various clinical settings . but , in general , the following have proven most expedient : 1 ) class i hysterectomy , for microinvasive cancer of 3 mm invasion or less without lymphatic space involvement , 2 ) modified , extended hysterectomy ( class ii ) and pelvic lymphadenectomy for lesions of 3 mm and lymph vascular space involvement or when the lesion seems to just exceed 3 mm and for very early adenocarcinoma , 3 ) an extended hysterectomy ( class iii ) and pelvic lymphadenectomy for larger ia2 , ib , and iia lesions that are less than 4 cm , particularly for the pregnant or younger patient , and when ovarian conservation is desired , 4 ) radiation therapy is used for lesions over 4 cm and for women with severe medical illness making extended hysterectomy too hazardous , 5 ) combination therapy and chemotherapy are now reserved for study in poor prognosis patients with very large lesions ( greater than 6 cm ) , occult metastases , and unfavorable histologic criteria ( table 2 ) . 
the management of malignant bone tumors in children and adolescents . a series of 205 pediatric patients affected by osteosarcoma , ewing 's sarcoma , fibrosarcoma , and malignant fibrous histiocytoma of bone were treated from 1978 to 1988 . ninety-eight percent of the patients received chemotherapy and 63 % had a surgical resection . sixty-five percent of all patients were alive at 30 months and were considered disease free . the functional results after surgery were evaluated according to the musculoskeletal tumor society score . in all diaphyseal resections and resections of the upper extremity and pelvis , the results were excellent or good in 60 % of the cases . in resections of the proximal femur , distal femur , or proximal tibia and reconstruction with nonexpansible prostheses , the results were excellent or good in 75 % . on the other hand , when arthrodeses of the lower extremity were used , only 14 % of cases had a good result . this correlates with the resulting lack of articulation and serious limb shortening seen with progression of skeletal growth . 
dexamethasone-nonsuppressible cortisol in two cases with aldosterone-producing adenoma . forty-one patients with aldosterone-producing adenoma ( apa ) were subjected to a dexamethasone suppression test ( dst ) before surgery . serum cortisol and urinary excretion of 17-hydroxycorticosteroids were suppressed by dexamethasone in 39 patients [ dst ( + ) ] . in two patients ( cases a and b ) , they were not suppressed [ dst ( - ) ] . clinical manifestations of the two dst ( - ) patients were similar to those of dst ( + ) patients . hypertension , hypokalemia , high serum aldosterone levels , and suppressed pra were found in all of the patients . the cut surfaces of the adenomas from all of the patients , including cases a and b , were golden yellow , which is typical of apa . however , atrophies of the adjacent normal tissues were evident exclusively in the two dst ( - ) patients . after removal of the affected adrenals , the serum cortisol level was suppressed by dexamethasone in one of the dst ( - ) patients ( case b ) . these findings suggested autonomous cortisol production by apa . to evaluate whether cortisol could be produced from the adenoma tissue , the presence of several steroidogenic enzymes was studied by immunohistochemistry and mrna analysis in the adenomas and the adjacent nonneoplastic adrenals from the 2 dst ( - ) and 5 dst ( + ) patients . immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated that steroidogenic enzymes were expressed in apa tumor tissues from both dst ( - ) and dst ( + ) patients . in both groups , mrnas coding steroidogenic enzymes were present not only in the nonneoplastic but also in the tumor tissues . quantitative analysis of the mrna levels revealed that in the adrenals from dst ( + ) patients , the mrnas were more abundant in nonneoplastic tissue than in tumor tissue . however , in those from dst ( - ) cases , the mrnas were much more abundant in the tumor tissues than in the nonneoplastic tissues . these results indicate that tumor cells of the two dst ( - ) patients autonomously synthesized not only aldosterone but also cortisol . the diameters of the tumors from the two dst ( - ) patients exceeded 3 cm , while those from other dst ( + ) patients were smaller . in patients with large apa , adrenal insufficiency should be anticipated upon removal of the tumor . 
preliminary characterization of growth factors secreted by human pituitary tumors . to investigate the secretion of mitogenic factors by human pituitary tumors we have cultured cells from 54 adenomas in serum-free medium . conditioned media from 28 ( 52 % ) elicited dose-dependent stimulation of [ 3h ] thymidine incorporation into rat gh3 cells ( 22-338 % above control ) , while 14 ( 26 % ) inhibited gh3 proliferation . stimulating activity was observed more frequently in nonfunctional tumor-conditioned medium ( 73 % ; n = 22 ) than in secretory tumor-conditioned medium ( 37 % ; n = 32 ) . of 10 tumour-conditioned media with mitogenic activity for gh3 cells , only 4 produced modest stimulation of hep2 ( human laryngeal carcinoma ) cells . in contrast , [ 3h ] thymidine incorporation into a431 ( human squamous carcinoma ) and pc12 ( rat adrenal pheochromocytoma ) cells was enhanced by each of 15 tumor-conditioned media ( up to 342 % and 275 % , respectively ) , 8 of which had shown stimulatory and 2 inhibitory effects on gh3 cells . gel filtration of pooled conditioned media from 10 nonfunctional tumors showed significant growth-promoting activity for gh3 cells in fractions corresponding to mol wt of 2-3 and 11-18 kda . proliferative activity on a431 cells also eluted in two positions ; one corresponded to the higher mol wt peak seen with gh3 cells , while the other , not observed with gh3 cells , was in the 3 - to 6-kda range . these findings suggest that cells derived from human pituitary adenoma tissue synthesize and secrete several growth factors , each of which may have its own target cell specificities . these factors have yet to be characterized , but we suggest that they may have a role in stimulating the development or maintenance of human pituitary adenomas . 
endothelial markers in malignant vascular tumours of the liver : superiority of qb-end/10 over von willebrand factor and ulex europaeus agglutinin 1 . a new monoclonal antibody , qb-end/10 , raised against the cd34 antigen in human endothelial cell membranes and haemopoietic progenitor cells , was studied for its usefulness as a marker of neoplastic vascular cells in 21 angiosarcomas and seven malignant haemangioendotheliomas of the liver . qb-end/10 was both more sensitive and more specific than von willebrand factor ( vwf ) and ulex europaeus 1 agglutinin ( uea-1 ) in labelling endothelial cells and it did not cross react with epithelia as uea-1 often does . staining was uniformly strong and clear in all histological variants of these two tumours . qb-end/10 should prove particularly useful in the differential diagnosis of malignant vascular tumours of the liver . 
interphase cytogenetics using biotin and digoxigenin labelled probes : iii . increased sensitivity and flexibility for detecting hpv in cervical biopsy specimens and cell lines . a monoclonal antibody to digoxin enabled sandwich techniques to be used for the detection of hybridised digoxigenin labelled probes in cultured cells and paraffin wax sections . this system has greater flexibility than alkaline phosphatase conjugated polyclonal antidigoxigenin antibody and permits the use of alternative detector enzymes , such as horseradish peroxidase and fluorescence labels . the apaap detection system that does not require the use of biotin can also be used in situations where endogenous biotin is a problem . the low level of background staining combined with precise substrate deposition of the amplified peroxidase system gives higher sensitivity and resolution . this permits localisation of closely adjacent chromosomal loci in interphase nuclei . the most sensitive peroxidase based digoxigenin detection system visualises two and a half to 12 copies of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) per nucleus . this system is also suitable for the analysis of low copy number hpv infection of cervical tissues . 
chromosomes in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia : karyotypic patterns in disease subtypes . to define further the clinical importance of cytogenetic analysis in acute lymphoblastic leukaemia ( all ) a prospective study was performed on 139 unselected children . analyses were considered adequate in 104 , of whom 35 were normal and 69 had clonal abnormalities . abnormalities were categorised according to banded chromosome analysis as well as chromosome count . karyotypes were correlated with clinical and laboratory features at diagnosis and with survival . of the successful analyses , thirty five ( 34 % ) children had no abnormalities ; this group contained an excess of t cell disease . twenty five ( 24 % ) had a " characteristic " hyperdiploid karyotype and as a group had lower presenting white counts , a tendency to cd10 , and periodic acid schiff positivity of the blast cells and smaller spleens . none was an infant and only one was over 10 years old . seven ( 7 % ) children with t ( 9 ; 22 ) , t ( 8 ; 14 ) , or t ( 4 ; 11 ) translocations were grouped together as " specific " translocations . collectively they had a significantly worse prognosis than the remainder . nine children developed central nervous system relapse , six of whom had either t ( 4 ; 11 ) or abnormalities of 9p or 19p . a descriptive classification taking into account chromosome bonding pattern is cytogenetically more appropriate and may be more clinically useful than grouping children simply by chromosome number . as knowledge and techniques improve , the classification of cytogenetic abnormalities in all will need to be kept under frequent review . 
increased serum beta 2-microglobulin concentrations in hyperthyroid states . serum beta 2-microglobulin concentrations were determined in 21 untreated hyperthyroid patients ( 12 with graves ' disease , and nine with toxic nodular adenoma ) and in 20 healthy controls . all subjects had normal serum creatinine concentrations and urine analysis . both total and free thyroid hormones were significantly higher in the hyperthyroid groups than in controls . beta 2-microglobulin concentrations were significantly increased in both groups of hyperthyroid patients compared with controls . no difference was found in the thyroid hormone and beta 2-microglobulin concentrations between both sets of patients . the beta 2-microglobulin and thyroid hormone concentrations were not correlated . these data show that hyperthyroidism is another cause of increased beta 2-microglobulin production along with viral infections , immunologically mediated diseases , and malignant neoplasms . the increased serum beta 2-microglobulin concentration in thyroid hyperfunction is probably related to metabolic rate , even if autoimmunity might contribute to its overproduction . 
mechanical ventilation in medical and neurological diseases : 11 years of experience . mechanical ventilation ( mv ) is imperative in many forms of acute respiratory failure ( arf ) . the aim of this work was to review all episodes of mv in a medical intensive care unit ( micu ) during the 11-year period 1976-1986 . four per cent ( n = 1008 ) of 24,899 admissions to the micu were treated with mv . the mean age of ventilator-treated patients was 53 + / - 18 years , and obviously it increased during the period of study . the average duration of mv was 4.7 d. micu mortality , hospital mortality and 2-year mortality rates for patients subjected to mv were 33 % , 38 % and 46 % , respectively . the mortality rate did not change during the study period . cerebrovascular and malignant diseases carried the highest mortality rates , 75 and 79 % , respectively , whereas mortality in patients ventilated because of drug overdose ( n = 313 ) was only 2 % . the results of this study confirm previously published findings concerning the outcome of mv , and we conclude that the effects of mv remain discouraging in medical and neurological patients . improved quality of ventilator therapy and monitoring , as well as continued research directed at the causes of arf , are equally important in reducing the mortality in arf . 
gastric lymphoma causing granulocytopenia and cold intolerance , with recovery after treatment . a 34-year-old man was found to have granulocytopenia with a white blood count of 2.3 x 10 ( 9 ) l-1 , consisting of 10 % segmented neutrophils , 50 % monocytes and 40 % lymphocytes . a bone marrow aspirate showed 20 % promyelocytes and 10 % blasts with monoblastic features , and a smouldering myelomonocytic leukaemia was considered to be a possible diagnosis . in cold weather the patient experienced cold intolerance with acrocyanosis and small ulcerations on the ears . the test for heparin-precipitable protein ( ' cryofibrinogen ' ) was strongly positive . during the following year , these signs and symptoms persisted , and the patient also developed constant moderate pain in the epigastric region . gastroscopy revealed a large lymphoma of the stomach , which was a high-grade malignant centroblastic type of non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . after successful removal of the tumour , and six courses of potent cytostatic combinations , the patient recovered completely , and the granulocytopenia and cold intolerance disappeared . 
familial hypobetalipoproteinaemia complicated by cerebellar ataxia and steatocystoma multiplex . a 55-year-old man with cerebellar ataxia and steatocystoma multiplex was found to have reduced serum concentrations of total cholesterol , betalipoprotein and apolipoprotein b. computed tomography revealed atrophy of the cerebellum and brain stem . of the six family members examined , four had hypobetalipoproteinaemia , and one had mild ataxia . similar skin lesions were noted in five male relatives . this case represents a rare combination of familial hypobetalipoproteinaemia , cerebellar ataxia and steatocystoma multiplex . 
lymphoma presenting as a popliteal mass in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis . a patient with hla-b27 and rheumatoid factor positive rheumatoid arthritis presented with a painless swelling in his popliteal fossa . clinical features were atypical for a baker 's cyst , and subsequent investigation showed this lesion to be a primary malignant lymphoma . 
the role of adjuvant chemotherapy following cystectomy for invasive bladder cancer : a prospective comparative trial . we assigned 91 patients with deeply invasive , pathological stage p3 , p4 or n + and mo transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder ( with or without squamous or glandular differentiation ) to adjuvant chemotherapy or to observation after radical cystectomy and pelvic lymph node dissection . for most patients chemotherapy was planned as 4 courses at 28-day intervals of 100 mg . / m. 2 cisplatin , 60 mg . / m. 2 doxorubicin and 600 mg . / m. 2 cyclophosphamide . a significant delay was shown in the time to progression ( p = 0.0010 ) with 70 % of the patients assigned to chemotherapy free of disease at 3 years compared to 46 % in the observation group . median survival time for patients in the chemotherapy group was 4.3 years compared to 2.4 years in the observation group ( p = 0.0062 ) . in addition to treatment groups , important prognostic factors included age , gender and lymph node status . the number of involved lymph nodes was the single most important variable . we recommend adjuvant chemotherapy for patients with invasive transitional cell carcinoma after definitive surgical resection . 
spontaneous perinephric hemorrhage : imaging and management . we report on 10 patients with spontaneous perinephric hemorrhage associated with underlying disease , including renal cell carcinoma ( 5 ) , angiomyolipoma ( 2 ) , malignant melanoma ( 1 ) , periarteritis nodosa ( 1 ) and severe portal hypertension ( 1 ) . the etiology could not be identified with computerized tomography ( ct ) in 5 cases ( 50 % ) , including 2 renal cell carcinomas , 1 angiomyolipoma , 1 periarteritis nodosa and 1 portal hypertension . arteriography demonstrated underlying lesions in 4 of these 5 cases ( 80 % ) including the case of vasculitis . ct combined with magnetic resonance imaging is accurate for the diagnosis of spontaneous perinephric hemorrhage but the underlying pathological condition is often undetectable in the acute phase due to the perinephric blood . ct should be the first study performed if this diagnosis is suspected . arteriography is recommended if a renal mass is not detected . if a mass is not identified with these 2 imaging studies and the patient is clinically stable , followup thin slice ct should be performed . 
partial nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma : indications , results and implications . of 52 patients who underwent partial nephrectomy for tumor 44 were found to have renal cell carcinoma . the indications for this parenchyma-sparing procedure were categorized according to the initial status of the contralateral kidney and included bilateral tumors or tumor in a solitary kidney in 16 patients ( mandatory indications ) , unilateral carcinoma with compromise of the contralateral kidney by a benign disease process in 9 ( relative indications ) and small peripheral tumor with a normal contralateral kidney in 19 ( elective indications ) . there were 4 recurrences that accounted for 3 deaths , all in patients with mandatory indications . all patients who underwent partial nephrectomy for relative or elective indications were without definite evidence of recurrent disease at last followup ( over-all mean 36 months ) . our results suggest that conservative surgery can often provide effective and advantageous therapy for renal cancer and we encourage further consideration of the role of partial nephrectomy as an alternative to radical nephrectomy in selected patients with small peripheral tumors and normal contralateral kidneys . 
a seromuscular stripping method to create a nipple valve without metal stapling for continent urinary reservoir . urinary continence with a kock or mainz pouch is achieved by a nipple valve of the invaginated ileum which is usually fixed with metal staples . however , metal staples can cause various complications as a foreign body . the seromuscular stripping method , a new technique to create a nipple valve , was applied to 17 patients with bladder cancer in the construction of a continent urinary reservoir by the ileocolonic pouch ( mainz pouch ) . metal staples were not used . the results were satisfactory except for 2 patients who became incontinent because of prolapse of the nipple in one and insufficient valve function due to ischemic change of the nipple valve in the other . histology of the nipple valve from an autopsy case showed a good double layer nipple valve that functioned well to preserve continence . 
sensitivity of urinary quantitative immunocytology with monoclonal antibody 486 p3/12 in 241 unselected patients with bladder carcinoma . we investigated the sensitivity of quantitative immunocytology with our monoclonal antibody 486 p3/12 in 241 unselected patients with transitional cell carcinoma . immunocytology yielded a sensitivity of 91.8 % , 89.4 % and 92.9 % for grade 1 , 2 and 3 tumors , respectively . standard cytology was positive in 59.2 % , 63.8 % and 84.7 % , respectively . deoxyribonucleic acid flow cytometry , used in the first 69 patients , was positive in only 27.7 % , 48.6 % and 57.1 % , respectively . 
oral or intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin immunoprophylaxis in bladder carcinoma . a total of 71 patients with superficial transitional cell carcinoma underwent transurethral resection of bladder tumor . all patients had stage pta or pt1 transitional cell carcinoma or carcinoma in situ without other concurrent malignancies . the patients were assigned to 3 treatment groups : control group -- transurethral resection discontinued within the study , oral bacillus calmette-guerin ( bcg ) group -- transurethral resection of bladder tumor plus bcg ( moreau ) and intravesical bcg group -- transurethral resection of bladder tumor plus bcg . of 9 patients in the control group 8 ( 89 % ) experienced tumor recurrence during a mean followup of 20 months . of the 28 patients in the oral bcg group 11 ( 39.3 % ) had recurrence during a mean followup of 36 months . of the 34 patients in the intravesical group 6 ( 18 % ) had recurrence in a 24-month mean followup . the incidence of complications was higher in the intravesical ( 41.2 % ) than in the oral bcg group ( 28.5 % ) . these results show that intravesical bcg is a more effective immunotherapy ; however , oral bcg can be used in patients who do not accept intravesical bcg administration . 
ileocolic neobladder post-cystectomy : continence and potency . incontinence and impotence are 2 of the primary complications associated with total bladder reconstruction after cystectomy for carcinoma . these and other features are addressed in 25 patients who underwent total neobladder reconstruction following cystectomy for transitional cell carcinoma . of these patients 20 had a urethral anastomosis . no patient had to wear a pad or device . enuresis was rare . when the radical cystoprostatectomy population was contrasted with a radical prostatectomy patient population , continence was achieved more rapidly in the neobladder group . potency was maintained in 15 of 21 ( 71 % ) evaluable patients . this ileocolic neobladder produces a large volume and low pressure , and provides excellent day and night continence . with preservation of the neurovascular bundle potency can be maintained in the majority of patients . 
impact of anatomical radical prostatectomy on urinary continence . urinary continence following an anatomical approach to radical prostatectomy was evaluated in 593 consecutive patients , 547 ( 92 % ) of whom achieved complete urinary control . stress incontinence was present in 46 patients ( 8 % ) , of whom 34 ( 6 % ) wore 1 or fewer pads per day and 2 ( 0.3 % ) required placement of an artificial sphincter . no patient was totally incontinent . age , weight of the prostate , prior transurethral resection of the prostate , pathological stage and preservation or wide excision of the neurovascular bundles had no significant influence on preservation of urinary control . these data suggest that anatomical factors rather than preservation of autonomic innervation may be responsible for the improved urinary control associated with an anatomical approach to radical prostatectomy . 
correlation of ultrasound guided and digitally directed transrectal biopsies of palpable prostatic abnormalities . the authors evaluated 51 patients with palpable prostatic abnormalities detected during digital rectal examination . these findings consisted of a nodule or an area of induration . each palpable abnormality was confined to 1 prostatic lobe and there was no suggestion of extracapsular extension of neoplasm or systemic metastatic disease . all patients underwent 7.0 mhz . sagittal ultrasound guided transrectal biopsy followed by digitally directed transrectal biopsy . biopsies were obtained only from the area of interest . the procedure was performed in the outpatient clinic without use of sedation or anesthesia . digitally directed biopsies were positive for adenocarcinoma in 9 lesions . ultrasound guided biopsies detected adenocarcinoma in 23 lesions , including all those detected by the blind digitally directed technique . this study demonstrates greater diagnostic accuracy using 7.0 mhz . ultrasound guided techniques and its routine use is warranted in the evaluation of palpable prostatic abnormalities . 
radical prostatectomy and adjuvant radioactive gold seed placement : results of treatment at 5 and 10 years for clinical stages a2 , b1 and b2 cancer of the prostate . between 1977 and 1988 , 131 patients with adenocarcinoma of the prostate underwent combined radical prostatectomy and intraoperative radioactive gold seed placement . of these 131 patients 80 were clinically assessed as having stage a2 ( 12 ) , b1 ( 43 ) or b2 ( 25 ) cancer and they are the subject of this review . the average dose of radioactivity administered to each patient was 96.6 mci , and mean followup was 65 months ( median 64 months ) . no patient in this series received any other form of adjuvant therapy until disease recurrence was demonstrated . local recurrences were observed in 2 patients ( 2.5 % ) in this series while distant recurrences were observed in 10 ( 12.5 % ) . cancer specific survival free of disease at 5 years was 100 % for clinical stage a2 , 91 % for b1 and 75 % for b2 cancers . the 10-year survival free of disease was 100 % for clinical stage a2 , 82 % for b1 and 68 % for b2 cancers . covariants of clinical stage and seminal vesicle involvement influenced survival free of disease in a statistically significant manner ( p less than 0.05 ) while pathological stage and degree of tumor differentiation did not . mild to severe complications were observed in 12 patients ( 15 % ) . intraoperative placement of radioactive gold seeds into unresected pelvic tissues surrounding the site of prostatectomy offers a theoretical advantage in treatment by delivering tumoricidal levels of irradiation to residual foci of cancer not appreciated at the time of surgery . our results suggest that increases in cancer specific survival free of disease over that previously reported for prostatectomy alone may be achieved through this combined treatment regimen . furthermore , it is our opinion that therapeutic gains can be achieved without the attendant increases in morbidity and treatment delay often associated with adjuvant external beam radiotherapy . 
preoperative endoscopic diagnosis of fibroepithelial polyp of the renal pelvis : a case report and review of the literature . benign fibroepithelial polyps of the renal pelvis are rare , with only 9 cases described previously in the literature . we report an additional case and suggest how nephrectomy may be avoided . 
nonspecific magnetic resonance appearance of renal oncocytomas : report of 3 cases and review of the literature . we report the magnetic resonance appearance of 3 cases of solitary renal oncocytomas . all lesions were of low to moderate signal intensity on t1-weighted images and became considerably brighter on the more heavily t2-weighted images . one lesion contained a large central area of cystic degeneration , while the other 2 were solid . a central stellate scar was present in the smaller of the 2 solid lesions . our observations lend further support to earlier reports on the nonspecific magnetic resonance features of oncocytomas . 
surgical management of renal cell carcinoma with extensive intracaval involvement using a venous bypass system suitable for rapid conversion to total cardiopulmonary bypass . renal cell carcinoma involves the vena cava in approximately 4 % of the patients . presently surgical extirpation is the only form of therapy that can result in cure . recently management of extensive vena caval involvement has involved the use of cardiopulmonary bypass with circulatory arrest and hypothermia . we describe a technique using a venous bypass pump system ( femoral vein to right atrium ) for resection of renal cell carcinoma with suprahepatic vena caval extension ( type ii ) , which avoids the risks and complications of cardiac arrest and hypothermia but allows for rapid conversion to total cardiopulmonary bypass should the intraoperative need arise . 
assessment of the critical level of androgen for growth response of transplantable human prostatic carcinoma ( pc-82 ) in nude mice . the androgen dependent prostatic carcinoma of human origin , pc-82 , was used as a model system to investigate the effect of various levels of androgen on the growth of prostatic tumor tissue . plasma testosterone levels in mice were correlated to tumor growth and intratumor concentrations of testosterone and 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone . pc-82 tumor burden remained stable at plasma testosterone levels of 0.8 nmol/l . , whereas tumor growth occurred at higher levels and tumor regression was observed at lower plasma levels . this critical level of testosterone corresponded with intratumor testosterone and 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone concentrations of six to 10 and three to four pmol/gm . tissue , respectively , which are significantly above the levels found in castrated non-supplemented animals ( 3.1 and 1.4 pmol/gm . respectively ) . this indicates that remaining concentrations of dihydrotestosterone , which amount to two to three times the castrate level , are not stimulatory for tumor growth in the model of the androgen dependent pc-82 tumor . 
experimental intravesical therapy for superficial transitional cell carcinoma in a rat bladder tumor model . a rodent bladder cancer model that is induced by intravesical instillation of n-methyl-n-nitrosourea ( mnu ) was characterized . cohorts of four to five week old female fisher 344 rats received four biweekly 1.5 mg . doses of intravesical mnu and were sacrificed at various intervals . by week 13 all animals had flat atypia and/or papillary transitional cell tumors , and 67 % of the lesions were moderately ( grade ii ) or poorly differentiated ( grade iii ) . by week 20 , 83 % had gross muscle invasive tumors that eventually killed the host . a cohort of 40 mnu treated animals was subsequently treated commencing at week 17 after initiation of mnu with one of three intravesical six week regimens : 1 ) saline ; 2 ) bcg ( tice strain ) ; or 3 ) recombinant human tumor necrosis factor ( rtnf ) plus adriamycin . there was no difference in animal survival or tumor growth in any group of animals commencing therapy at week 17 . a second cohort of 107 animals commenced therapy at 13 weeks after initiation of mnu with one of five intravesical six week regimens : 1 ) intravesical bcg ( tice strain ) ; 2 ) adriamycin ; 3 ) recombinant human tumor necrosis factor ( rtnf ) ; 4 ) rtnf plus adriamycin ; or 5 ) bcg plus adriamycin . bcg , rtnf or adriamycin alone had no effect on tumor growth ; however , bcg plus adriamycin and rtnf plus adriamycin commencing at week 13 significantly inhibited tumor growth and progression . in conclusion , this autochthonous intravesical rodent transitional cell carcinoma model appears useful for the following reasons : 1 ) it closely resembles human transitional cell carcinoma histologically and biologically in that all animals develop neoplastic changes in-situ that progress to muscle invasion and kill the host ; 2 ) as with human bladder cancer these tumors do not respond to intravesical therapy if treated when tumor burden is large ; however , tumor growth is inhibited when treated early ; and 3 ) this model appears appropriate for screening and developing new intravesical treatments for superficial bladder cancer . 
the effects of interleukin-6 on tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes derived from human renal cell cancer . tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes ( til ) are a heterogeneous population of t cells with potent antitumor activity against a wide variety of tumors . til from renal cell cancer ( rcc ) typically exhibit diminished growth and antitumor activity after four weeks in vitro . we have therefore investigated effects of varying doses of interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) ( 0 , 25 , 100 units/ml . ) on in vitro expansion , proliferation , cytotoxicity , and expression of cell surface phenotypes of long term renal til cultures from three rcc patients . among the various conditions tested , three of three til cultures displayed a mild increase in cell expansion when grown in il-2 with the addition of 100 units/ml . of il-6 . two of three til cultures grown in il-2 and 100 u/ml . of il-6 demonstrated enhanced proliferation as determined by 3h-thymidine uptake . til could not be isolated or maintained in vitro when grown in the presence of il-6 alone without il-2 . il-6 was also found to enhance the long term non-specific cytotoxicity against an allogeneic nonrenal tumor target . no consistent effect on autologous tumor-specific cytotoxicity was demonstrated . we conclude that il-6 , when used in combination with il-2 , may modestly enhance the long-term growth of rcc-derived til . 
bladder perforation resulting from the use of the neodymium : yag laser . complications resulting from the use of the neodymium : yag ( nd : yag ) laser to treat superficial bladder cancer are uncommon and are usually associated with abnormally high laser power outputs . we report a case of bladder perforation in a human attributed to the nd : yag laser used at a low power setting and comment on those factors that contributed to this complication . 
generation of " soft x-rays " by using the free electron laser as a proposed means of diagnosing and treating breast cancer . the diagnosis and treatment of breast lesions may be markedly enhanced by the use of a unique new source of near-monochromatic x-rays . concentric beams of near-monochromatic x-ray photons may be generated by collision of the free electron laser ( fel ) electron beam with the optical beam in an interaction zone that delivers the x-rays to a shirtsleeve environment . the absence of compton scatter and the photoelectric interaction within tissues improves conspicuity of lesions by two to six times . increased attenuation of x-rays in malignant vs. normal tissues makes tumors more obvious . k-edge subtraction allows chemical analysis of tumors in vivo -- all at radiation doses that are one-tenth to one-fiftieth that delivered by the lowest-dose mammographic x-ray technique available . this allows for an increased sensitivity and specificity and permits prediction of histology , negating necessity for biopsies . selective bond-breaking at depth in tissues as well as x-ray-activated photodynamic therapy are also being explored . 
endometrial ablation for the treatment of menorrhagia : a comparison of patients with normal , enlarged , and fibroid uteri . one hundred sixty-one patients underwent endometrial ablation with the nd : yag laser for the treatment of refractory menorrhagia . patients were divided into one of three groups : those with a normal-sized uterus ; those with an enlarged uterus ( greater than 10 cm ) ; and those with uterine fibroids , which had been documented clinically , ultrasonographically , or by a combination of hysteroscopy and laparoscopy or by one or the other . all patients were considered candidates for hysterectomy . both preoperatively and postoperatively , patients monitored their menstrual cycles and evaluated their flow according to predetermined categories of amenorrhea , light flow , normal flow , heavy flow , and severe flow . after treatment , 68 % of patients with normal-sized uterus and 91 % of patients with an enlarged uterus ( greater than 10 cm ) and 88 % of patients with uterine fibroids became amenorrheic or had light flow . none of the patients in this last group have had to undergo hysterectomy . this study indicates that the patient with an enlarged or fibroid uterus may not have contraindications for endometrial ablation . endometrial ablation may be effective in at least temporarily controlling bleeding in those patients with enlarged or myomatous uterus . 
effective surgical adjuvant therapy for high-risk rectal carcinoma background . radiation therapy as an adjunct to surgery for rectal cancer has been shown to reduce local recurrence but has not improved survival . in a previous study , combined radiation and chemotherapy improved survival significantly as compared with surgery alone , but not as compared with adjuvant radiation , which many regard as standard therapy . we designed a combination regimen to optimize the contribution of chemotherapy , decrease recurrence , and improve survival as compared with adjuvant radiation alone . methods . two hundred four patients with rectal carcinoma that was either deeply invasive or metastatic to regional lymph nodes were randomly assigned to postoperative radiation alone ( 4500 to 5040 cgy ) or to radiation plus fluorouracil , which was both preceded and followed by a cycle of systemic therapy with fluorouracil plus semustine ( methyl-ccnu ) . results . after a median follow-up of more than seven years , the combined therapy had reduced the recurrence of rectal cancer by 34 percent ( p = 0.0016 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 12 to 50 percent ) . initial local recurrence was reduced by 46 percent ( p = 0.036 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 2 to 70 percent ) , and distant metastasis by 37 percent ( p = 0.011 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 9 to 57 percent ) . in addition , combined therapy reduced the rate of cancer-related deaths by 36 percent ( p = 0.0071 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 14 to 53 percent ) and the overall death rate by 29 percent ( p = 0.025 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 7 to 45 percent ) . its acute toxic effects included nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , leukopenia , and thrombocytopenia . these effects were seldom severe . severe , delayed treatment-related reactions , usually small-bowel obstruction requiring surgery , occurred in 6.7 percent of all patients receiving radiation , and the frequencies of these complications were comparable in both treatment groups . conclusions . the combination of postoperative local therapy with radiation plus fluorouracil and systemic therapy with a fluorouracil-based regimen significantly and substantively improves the results of therapy for rectal carcinoma with a poor prognosis , as compared with postoperative radiation alone . 
clinical importance of myeloid-antigen expression in acute lymphoblastic leukemia of childhood . background . leukemic cells in 15 to 25 percent of patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) express myeloid antigens as well as lymphoid antigens ( the latter reflecting b-cell or t-cell lineage ) . the relations of myeloid-antigen expression to other features of all and to prognosis have been controversial . methods . we analyzed clinical and laboratory features present at diagnosis in 236 consecutive cases of all in children . immunophenotyping , including single - and dual-fluorescence analyses , was used to classify leukemic cells as b or t lymphoblasts and also to identify myeloid-antigen expression -- the simultaneous expression of lymphoid-associated antigens and at least one of three myeloid-associated antigens ( cd33 , cd13 , and cd14 ) on cells classified as l1 or l2 according to the french-american-british system . results . forty-five of 185 patients with b-lineage all had myeloid-antigen expression , as did 8 of 41 patients with t-lineage all . in 10 patients , the lineage could not be determined . myeloid-antigen expression was associated with l2 morphology ( p less than 0.05 ) , but it did not correlate with other prognostic features recognized previously . multivariate analysis showed that myeloid-antigen expression was an important predictor of relapse in childhood all and the most significant prognostic factor statistically ( p less than 0.0001 ) . a white-cell count greater than or equal to 50 x 10 ( 9 ) per liter at diagnosis was also an important and highly significant prognostic feature ( p less than 0.001 ) . after 40 months , the estimated disease-free survival for patients with all was 84 percent for those without myeloid-antigen expression and with a low white-cell count , 57 percent for those without myeloid-antigen expression and with a high white-cell count , 47 percent for those with myeloid-antigen expression and a low white-cell count , and 26 percent for those with myeloid-antigen expression and a high white-cell count ( p less than 0.00001 ) . conclusions . myeloid-antigen expression is an important independent predictor of a poor response to chemotherapy in childhood all . 
late cardiac effects of doxorubicin therapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia in childhood background . cardiotoxicity is a recognized complication of doxorubicin therapy , but the long-term effects of doxorubicin are not well documented . we therefore assessed the cardiac status of 115 children who had been treated for acute lymphoblastic leukemia with doxorubicin 1 to 15 years earlier in whom the disease was in continuous remission . methods . eighteen patients received one dose of doxorubicin ( 45 mg per square meter of body-surface area ) , and 97 received multiple doses totaling 228 to 550 mg per square meter ( median , 360 ) . the median interval between the end of treatment and the cardiac evaluation was 6.4 years . our evaluation consisted of a history , 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic recording , exercise testing , and echocardiography . results . fifty-seven percent of the patients had abnormalities of left ventricular afterload ( measured as end-systolic wall stress ) or contractility ( measured as the stress-velocity index ) . the cumulative dose of doxorubicin was the most significant predictor of abnormal cardiac function ( p less than 0.002 ) . seventeen percent of patients who received one dose of doxorubicin had slightly elevated age-adjusted afterload , and none had decreased contractility . in contrast , 65 percent of patients who received at least 228 mg of doxorubicin per square meter had increased afterload ( 59 percent of patients ) , decreased contractility ( 23 percent ) , or both . increased afterload was due to reduced ventricular wall thickness , not to hypertension or ventricular dilatation . in multivariate analyses restricted to patients who received at least 228 mg of doxorubicin per square meter , the only significant predictive factors were a higher cumulative dose ( p = 0.01 ) , which predicted decreased contractility , and an age of less than four years at treatment ( p = 0.003 ) , which predicted increased afterload . afterload increased progressively in 24 of 34 patients evaluated serially ( 71 percent ) . reported symptoms correlated poorly with indexes of exercise tolerance or ventricular function . eleven patients had congestive heart failure within one year of treatment with doxorubicin ; five of them had recurrent heart failure 3.7 to 10.3 years after completing doxorubicin treatment , and two required heart transplantation . no patient had late heart failure as a new event . conclusions . doxorubicin therapy in childhood impairs myocardial growth in a dose-related fashion and results in a progressive increase in left ventricular afterload sometimes accompanied by reduced contractility . we hypothesize that the loss of myocytes during doxorubicin therapy in childhood might result in inadequate left ventricular mass and clinically important heart disease in later years . 
chemotherapy of brain metastases from lung carcinoma : a controlled randomized study . a controlled randomized study was carried out to evaluate the effects of chemotherapy in patients with brain metastases from lung carcinoma . one hundred patients were randomly divided into three groups at the time of diagnosis or after surgery for metastases . group a received radiotherapy alone ; group b received radiotherapy and chloroethylnitrosoureas ( methyl-ccnu , 100-120 mg/m2 , or acnu 80-100 mg/m2 , every 6-8 weeks ) , and group c received radiotherapy and a combination of chloroethylnitrosoureas and tegafur ( 300 mg/m2 , daily ) . of the 100 patients , 88 could be evaluated . the reduction rates of the tumors of the patients in whom tumor was not surgically removed or not totally removed were compared . complete resolution of the tumor was noted in 29 , 69 , and 63 % of the patients in groups a , b , and c , respectively . tumor regression of greater than or equal to 50 % was seen in 36 , 69 , and 74 % of the patients in groups a , b , and c , respectively . the difference in the response rates of groups a and c was statistically significant ( p less than 0.05 ) . median survival after the start of treatment for brain metastasis was 27 , 30.5 , and 29 weeks in groups a , b and c , respectively . there was 1 long-term survivor ( more than 5 years ) in group a , 3 in group b , and 1 in group c. the main cause of death was deterioration attributable to the primary lesion or systemic metastasis , and no statistical difference was noted in survival time among the groups . 
interstitial irradiation and hyperthermia for the treatment of recurrent malignant brain tumors . between june 1987 and june 1989 , 29 recurrent malignant gliomas or recurrent solitary brain metastases in 28 patients were treated in a phase i study of interstitial irradiation and hyperthermia . patient age ranged from 18 to 65 years , and the karnofsky performance status scores ranged from 40 to 90 % . there were 13 glioblastomas , 10 anaplastic astrocytomas , 3 melanomas , and 3 adenocarcinomas . catheters were implanted stereotactically after computed tomography-based preplanning . hyperthermia was administered before and after brachytherapy , using one to six 2450 - or 915-mhz helical coil microwave antennas and one to three multisensor fiberoptic thermometry probes . the goal was to heat as much of the tumor as possible to 42.5 degrees c for 30 minutes . within 30 minutes after the first hyperthermia treatment , implant catheters were afterloaded with high-activity iodine-125 seeds delivering tumor doses of 32.6 to 61.0 gy . most patients had no sensation of heating . complications included seizures in 5 patients , reversible neurological changes in 9 patients , a scalp burn in 1 , and infections in 3 . of 28 evaluable 2-month follow-up scans , 11 showed definite improvement in the radiological appearance of the tumor , 4 were slightly improved , 7 were stable , and 6 showed tumor progression . ten patients underwent reoperation for persistent tumor and/or necrosis . eleven of 28 patients are alive 40 to 97 weeks after treatment . thirteen patients died of a brain tumor , 2 died of extracranial melanoma metastases , 1 died of new brain melanoma metastases , and 1 died of a pulmonary embolus . the median survival was 55 weeks overall . median survival has not yet been reached for the anaplastic astrocytoma subgroup . we conclude that interstitial brain hyperthermia using helical coil microwave antennas is technically feasible . the level of toxicity is acceptable , and the computed tomographic response rate is encouraging . 
expression of platelet-derived growth factors , transforming growth factors , and the ros gene in a variety of primary human brain tumors . ribonucleic acid was isolated from a wide spectrum of central nervous system tumors to examine the expression of platelet-derived growth factors ( pdgf ) a and b , tumor growth factors ( tgf-beta ) 1 and 2 , and ros messenger ribonucleic acid . eight glioblastoma cell lines were examined as well as cell cultures from 22 tumor explants . the explants included 6 glioblastomas , 4 anaplastic astrocytomas , 5 astrocytomas , 3 ependymal tumors , 2 meningiomas , 1 medulloblastoma . and 1 ganglioglioma . for comparison , 2 nontumor glial cell cultures were included . the pdgf b-chain was expressed in 5 of 8 glioblastoma cell lines , 2 of 6 glioblastomas , and in 3 of 4 anaplastic astrocytoma explants . there was no pdgf b expression in 4 astrocytomas , 3 ependymomas of varying malignancy , in the remainder of the tumors , or in the nontumor glial cells . the pdgf a-chain was expressed in all of the tumors , with the exception of the malignant ependymoma and in both nontumor glial cell cultures . tgf-beta 1 was expressed in all of the tumors and in nontumor glial cells . the expression of tgf-beta 2 was expressed in many of the benign and malignant tumors and also in both nontumor glial cell cultures . the ros messenger ribonucleic acid was expressed in 1 of 5 glioblastoma cell lines and in 2 of 6 glioblastoma cell explants , but in none of the other tumors or in the nontumor glial cells . 
iatrogenic saphenous neuralgia : successful therapy with neuroma resection . we report the case of a patient with saphenous neuralgia secondary to iatrogenic trauma resulting from bypass surgery in the femoral-popliteal region . early symptoms of this condition were medial calf and ankle pain , with no findings of motor and reflex abnormalities . exploration of the thigh 2 years later revealed a neuroma of the nerve in the distal dissection site , medial to the knee . resection of the neuroma alleviated this condition . it is noted that saphenous neuropathy is seen as a spontaneous entrapment syndrome as well as a complication of orthopedic and vascular procedures performed on the medial area of the knee . saphenous neuralgia is often not recognized by neurosurgeons . if the condition is intractable , it does respond to surgical therapy . 
spinal glioblastomas : report of seven cases and review of the literature . intramedullary glioblastomas are uncommon tumors . they occur chiefly in the cervicothoracic segments , have a slight tendency to occur in the early decades of life , and have a short clinical history before diagnosis . we report seven cases and discuss the salient features of these tumors , particularly the pathological features and treatment , in light of the relevant literature . 
spinal cord compression from a thoracic paraganglioma : case report . a 34-year-old man with a 4-month history of midthoracic back pain sought treatment for a recent onset of lower extremity paresthesia and stiffness . a myelogram and computed tomographic myelogram disclosed an extradural block at the level of the 8th thoracic vertebral body with involvement of the pedicles , lamina , and spinous process . a posterior decompression of the spinal cord with subtotal resection of a highly vascular tumor was performed . the tumor was identified as a paraganglioma . in a second stage , the remainder of the tumor was embolized preoperatively , and gross total excision and sequential stabilization of the spine with a luque rectangle and sublaminar wires were performed . the patient has been symptom free and without signs of a recurrence in the spine for over 13 months . a large abdominal paraganglioma was recently resected from its probable origin from the adventitia of the abdominal aorta . 
reversible hearing loss from cerebellopontine angle tumors . we report two patients who presented with a dramatic recovery from severe sensorineural hearing loss after total surgical removal of cerebellopontine angle tumors ( meningioma and jugular foramen neurinoma ) . the factors that differentiate these " non-acoustic tumors " in relation to the prognosis for hearing are discussed . a surgical approach that maintains the labyrinthine structure and preserves the arachnoid membrane of the superior cerebellopontine angle cistern during tumor removal is stressed . 
malignant melanoma of the oral cavity . a case report . the oral cavity is a rare location for the development of primary malignant melanoma . less than 2 % of all malignant melanomas develop in the region . a case report is presented , illustrating the management in the site of the palate , together with a review of the relevant literature . 
oral cancer : a survey of 566 cases from the university of connecticut oral pathology biopsy service , 1975-1986 . a survey of the university of connecticut oral pathology biopsy service was undertaken to analyze cases of oral cancer accessioned during the 12-year period , 1975 through 1986 inclusive . of 33,429 total specimens accessioned , there were 546 malignant oral neoplasms diagnosed and reported . sixty-five ( 11.5 % ) originated from out of state . invasive intraoral squamous cell carcinoma was the predominant tumor ( 69.7 % of total ) , whereas lip cancer constituted only 2.8 % of all malignancies . minor salivary gland adenocarcinomas accounted for 11 % of total malignancies whereas verrucous carcinoma , carcinoma in situ , and miscellaneous other forms of oral cancer accounted for the remainder ( 4.6 % , 5.3 % , and 6.6 % , respectively ) . cases of invasive squamous cell carcinoma were further analyzed by year , sex distribution , location subsite , age at diagnosis , and histologic grade . with the exception of histologic grading , we found that the characterization of cases of squamous cell carcinoma within the biopsy service tended to parallel results from a separate but related statewide analysis of both oral cancer and intraoral squamous cell carcinoma from connecticut over a much longer time span . we concluded that the picture of oral cancer as characterized by cases within the university of connecticut oral pathology biopsy service is generally reflective of the disease on a statewide level . 
pathologic characteristics of human t-cell lymphotropic virus ( htlv ) - related extranodal orofacial lymphomas . eleven cases of extranodal orofacial lymphomas ( eofl ) , consisting of four htlv-related and seven htlv-unrelated eofl , were investigated with respect to the immunohistochemical and clinical features . htlv-related eofl were of t-cell phenotype and were associated with a poorer prognosis than htlv-unrelated eofl , most of which were of b-cell origin . the appearance of giant cells with cerebriform nuclei was helpful in identifying htlv-related eofl . the relatively high incidence of t-cell type eofl in our series was considered to be related to the high percentage of htlv carriers in our district , an area endemic for adult t-cell leukemia-lymphoma . 
adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma of the tongue . a case of posterior tongue lymphoma associated with adult t-cell leukemia ( atl ) that occurred as a lesion in the lingual dorsal portion is reported in a 64-year-old woman . initially , a diagnosis of hodgkin 's lymphoma was considered as no findings associated with atl except lymphadenopathy and serum anti-atla antibodies were present . combined radiotherapy and chemotherapy were administered with favorable results ; however , 4 months later , pneumocystis carinii pneumonia developed , and 2 months later , generalized lymphadenopathy and hypercalcemia evolved . at this time , a diagnosis of atl was made . the patient died of renal dysfunction 6 months after the initial presentation . in suspected cases of atl and malignant diseases of t-cell lineage , namely , malignant lymphoma and mycosis fungoides , the presence of htlv-1 infection should be confirmed by testing for anti-atla antibodies . 
peripheral ameloblastoma with clear cell differentiation . this report details a case of mandibular peripheral ameloblastoma having a clear cell component . the latter consisted of ovoid cells with vacuolated or clear cytoplasm and vesicular or pyknotic nuclei that may be disposed as discrete clusters or show direct transition from typical acanthomatous areas . comparison of this lesion with other odontogenic and nonodontogenic tumors that contain clear cells is discussed in the context of the differential diagnosis . 
ectatic blood vessels in port-wine stains lack innervation : possible role in pathogenesis . the innervation pattern of port-wine stains was investigated using indirect immunohistochemistry with antibodies to protein gene product 9.5 ( pgp 9.5 ) , neuron-specific enolase ( nse ) , calcitonin gene-related peptide ( cgrp ) , and neurofilament ( nf ) . the pathologically dilated vessels in the middle and deep dermis were found to have defective innervation with only single or no nerve fibers in their vicinity , while other structures in the skin showed a normal density of fibers . nse - and pgp-like immunoreactive ( - li ) nerve fibers were observed innervating vessels with a normal morphology and other structures in the skin , such as sweat glands and hair follicles , as free nerve endings and in nerve bundles . the nerve bundles were often seen to pass the ectatic vessels without giving off any branches . cgrp-li nerve fibers were detected running toward epidermis , whereas no fibers were found around the ectatic vessels . nf-li fibers were seen innervating normal vessels in dermis , while in relation to the dilated vessels , no or only occasional fibers were observed . the lack of innervation may be of importance for the development of the disease as a result of decreased tonus of the vessels and/or a loss of neuronal trophic factors . 
composite reconstruction for chest wall and scalp using multiple ribs-latissimus dorsi osteomyocutaneous flaps as pedicled and free flaps . a composite flap is presented based on the latissimus dorsi myocutaneous unit together with the underlying ninth to eleventh ribs . three patients are presented . in two , a full-thickness chest-wall defect was present . in one , a full-thickness scalp and cranial defect was present . use of the composite osteomyocutaneous latissimus dorsi free flap as a pedicled flap in two patients and as a free flap in one patient resulted in successful definitive reconstruction in all with no complications . this procedure necessitates no transplantation of soft tissue prior to bone grafting to maintain local vascularity , so the simultaneous one-stage reconstruction of an osseous-soft-tissue defect becomes possible easily . 
cerebral venous thrombosis : new causes for an old syndrome ? the range of disorders affecting the cerebral veins and sinuses is increasing and now includes blood disorders , abnormalities in the patterns of blood flow , and infiltrative or inflammatory conditions , all of which may promote thrombosis . we describe 10 patients with cerebral venous thrombosis : two had protein s deficiency , one had protein c deficiency , one was in early pregnancy , and there was a single case of each of the following : dural arteriovenous malformation , intracerebral arteriovenous malformation , bilateral glomus tumours , systemic lupus erythematosus , wegener 's granulomatosis , non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . the recognition of such diverse aetiology may be importance since clinical features are non-specific , and may consist only of raised intracranial pressure , allowing confusion with ' benign intracranial hypertension ' . the existence of effective treatment both for the thrombosis and for many of the underlying disorders makes early diagnosis essential . the prognosis of treated patients may be favourable . 
incidence , causes and mechanism of hypercalcaemia in a hospital population in hong kong . to determine the incidence and causes of hypercalcaemia in a hospital population in hong kong , all 29,107 samples received in the laboratory in one year were analysed for plasma calcium and albumin , and samples with a plasma calcium concentration adjusted for albumin greater than 2.55 mmol/l were investigated . plasma calcium greater than 2.55 mmol/l was found in 462 patients . repeat samples were received from 302 of these and hypercalcaemia was confirmed in 183 . the main causes of hypercalcaemia were malignancy ( 72.1 per cent ) , tuberculosis ( 6.0 per cent ) , and primary hyperparathyroidism ( 5.5 per cent ) . in the malignant hypercalcaemia group , carcinoma of lung was the most common ( 31.8 per cent ) and carcinoma of breast was uncommon ( 3.0 per cent ) . secondary deposits in bone were detected in 35 of the 122 solid tumours . in order to identify the mechanism of hypercalcaemia the contributions of renal tubular reabsorption and increased bone resorption to the plasma calcium concentration were calculated . increased tubular reabsorption was the main contributor to hypercalcaemia in primary hyperparathyroidism and carcinoma of liver ( none of whom had bony metastases ) and it contributed significantly to hypercalcaemia in carcinoma of lung without bony metastases and carcinoma of oesophagus . we conclude that in hong kong ( a ) primary hyperparathyroidism is uncommon , ( b ) tuberculosis is an important cause and ( c ) humoral factors may be responsible for a relatively high proportion of cases of malignant hypercalcaemia . 
radiographic manifestations of anomalies of the brain . congenital brain anomalies are classified as developmental anomalies , effects of teratogens , errors of histogenesis , or sequelae of infections . the imaging options for delineation of these anomalies are many ; a basic understanding of the disorder is central to the effective choice of imaging modality . this review begins with a brief overview of embryogenesis then reviews the common congenital brain anomalies encountered in infants . 
radiographic manifestations of congenital anomalies affecting the airway . congenital anomalies of the airway are generally uncommon , but a vast array of possibilities exists . some present life-threatening emergencies at birth , and others go undiagnosed for years . clinical symptoms are often nonspecific , and radiographic evaluation is frequently requested to localize and characterize the lesion before endoscopy , surgery , or medical management . the most common intrinsic congenital anomalies causing airway compromise in infants include choanal atresia , mandibular hypoplasia , laryngomalacia , vocal cord paralysis , and congenital subglottic stenosis . the radiologist must be on the alert for unsuspected additional anomalies involving the airway , lungs , and esophagus , which occur with relative frequency . numerous extrinsic congenital masses of the head , neck , and mediastinum may compromise the airway . hemangiomas , lymphangiomas , and teratomas are more likely to be noted at birth , whereas branchial cleft cysts , thyroglossal duct anomalies , and dermoid cysts frequently present later . mass location and radiographic characteristics usually allow accurate preoperative diagnosis . intracranial involvement by nasal or nasopharyngeal masses , intrathoracic involvement by lower neck mass , and intraspinal involvement by posterior neck mass must always be sought for radiographically . persistence of respiratory symptoms after removal of such masses is not uncommon because tracheal deformity and laxity may take months or years to resolve . recent advances in cine ct and mr imaging promise to improve imaging of the airway in general and in the pediatric population in particular . significant limitations in imaging of the pediatric larynx remain . as a result , endoscopy continues to be the primary diagnostic tool for airway anomalies of this region . 
bronchopulmonary and neurenteric forms of foregut anomalies . imaging for diagnosis and management . bronchopulmonary foregut malformations encompass a great variety of anomalies that may arise from abnormal differentiation of the respiratory and alimentary tracts , abnormal separation of the two systems , or abnormal development of blood supply , perhaps singly or in combination , during early embryogenesis . the pulmonary and neurenteric forms share the common features of a pulmonary parenchymal opacification and/or intrathoracic mass , with the addition of vertebral anomalies in the instance of the neurenteric malformations . plain radiographs serve as the starting point for diagnostic evaluation and sometimes are all that is needed ; more often , though , the plain film findings suggest which road to follow in further imaging . no single imaging approach can be advocated for all patients . the lesion may be found initially , for example , on prenatal sonography . ultrasonography also can establish the cystic nature of a mass and may help define vascular supply , although it can not yet be said to have supplanted angiography 's role in evaluating suspected sequestrations . for most intramediastinal or intrapulmonary masses without associated vertebral anomalies , ct will satisfactorily establish the cystic nature and should afford a reasonably confident preoperative diagnosis of bronchogenic cysts or type 1 or 2 cystic adenomatoid malformations . type 3 cystic adenomatoid malformation , because of its relatively " solid " imaging characteristics , may not be diagnosed confidently by preoperative imaging . the finding of vertebral anomalies associated with a mediastinal mass especially warrants mr imaging to define intraspinal involvement . however , the association of vertebral or rib anomalies with apparent unilateral pulmonary agenesis or hypoplasia arouses suspicion of a bronchopulmonary foregut malformation that communicates with the gastrointestinal tract , and this uncommon situation calls for a barium examination . radionuclide scintigraphy has an ancillary role in assessing foregut anomalies , but many findings from scintigraphy are relatively nonspecific and anatomic definition is poor . scintigraphy may yield supportive information in cases of sequestration that have inconclusive findings as determined by plain radiographs and ct . 
immunohistochemical characterization of microvascular endothelial cells in primary b cell lymphoma of the gastrointestinal tract . microvascular endothelial cells ( enc ) in primary b cell lymphoma of the gastrointestinal tract were immunohistochemically studied . based on the morphological structure , the microvasculatures were divided into high endothelial cell vessels ( hev ) and flat endothelial cell vessels ( fev ) . there were distinct phenotypic differences between hev and fev in lymphoma tissues . hev were characterized as okm1 - okm5 - , accompanied by the cluster of non-neoplastic t lymphocytes , and fev were okm1 - okm5 + not accompanied by t lymphocyte infiltration . factor viii-related antigen was clearly identified in both enc , and major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) class ii antigens and interleukin 1 were absent or only faintly visible on enc in lymphoma tissues , whereas they were expressed on enc in non-lymphoma tissues . these findings suggest that microvascular enc in primary b cell lymphoma of the gastrointestinal tract lack a property as antigen-presenting cells , and that hev are involved in the migration of non-neoplastic t lymphocytes . 
the role of the physician in the late diagnosis of primary malignant tumors of the small intestine . survival from primary malignancies of the small intestine has not improved during the last four decades . one reason for this is the advanced stage of disease at the time of surgery . in order to determine why diagnosis is made late , we reviewed the records of all patients with small bowel malignancy diagnosed between 1967 and 1988 . the time from the onset of symptoms to the first medical contact and the time from medical contact until diagnosis were evaluated in 77 patients . the average delay in diagnosis attributable 1 ) to the patient failing to report symptoms was less than 2 months , 2 ) to the physician not ordering the appropriate diagnostic test was 8.2 months , and 3 ) to the radiologist failing to make the diagnosis was 12 months . thus , the major delay in diagnosis was after medical help was sought and not from the onset of symptoms to first medical consultation . physicians must increase their sensitivity to the subtle but persistent symptoms that necessitate a small bowel evaluation . 
the effects of vitamin k on the generation of des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin ( pivka-ii ) in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma . the clinical significance of des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin ( pivka-ii ) in hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) was investigated in 112 patients with and without vitamin k administration . the positivity rate of pivka-ii was significantly decreased in patients receiving vitamin k ( 28.5 % ) , compared with those without vitamin k administration ( 54.5 % , p less than 0.05 ) . the plasma levels of vitamin k derivatives [ phylloquinone ( vk1 ) , menaquinone-4 ( mk4 ) , and menaquinone-7 ( mk7 ) ] measured were not decreased in patients with hcc , but were significantly increased in mk4 and vk1 + mk4 + mk7 . the amount of pivka-ii in plasma did not correlate with the plasma levels of vitamin k derivatives . however , pivka-ii was decreased by the administration of vitamin k , and all of the six patients with more than 5.0 ng/ml of vk1 + mk4 + mk7 were within normal limits , whereas half of 32 patients with less than that had abnormal levels of pivka-ii . thus , it was suggested that pivka-ii was not elevated due to vitamin k deficiency , but might result from the impaired metabolism or availability of vitamin k in the tumor . therefore , pivka-ii should be measured without vitamin k administration . 
perforation and tumor formation of the intestine in primary amyloidosis . we report a case of primary amyloidosis with repeated bowel perforations . this patient also had localized amyloid deposition creating a tumorous region mimicking malignancy in the rectum . perforation of the intestine is common in systemic amyloidosis . the ischemic change due to amyloid infiltration into the vessel wall may lead to perforation of the affected bowel . amyloid tumors occur more often in localized amyloid than in systemic amyloidosis . macroscopically , it is difficult to distinguish amyloid tumor of the intestine from neoplasia . 
a community study of delay in presenting with signs of melanoma to medical practitioners . in the absence of more effective treatment for advanced tumors , early diagnosis and treatment of localized tumors is the most effective way of reducing the burden of illness associated with melanoma . this study examined the following factors : prevalence of signs of melanoma ( a mole changing in size , shape , appearance , or color , itching or tingling , bleeding or weeping , becoming raised ) in 1344 individuals in a randomly selected sample of 1075 households ; the length of delay in seeking medical advice ; the factors associated with either going to a medical practitioner or not going/delaying ; and the actions of the medical practitioners when first presented with these signs . the results indicate that a large proportion of the sample ( 11.9 % , n = 156 ) had observed signs of melanoma in the previous 12 months . of the sample reporting signs that had first appeared in the previous 5 years , only 32 % sought medical advice about the signs within the recommended period . of the sample either not seeking advice at all or delaying , 49 % reported that they thought the sign " was n't serious/would clear up . " furthermore , 30 % of the sample either did not known or underrated the importance of early detection and treatment of lesions . these results indicate that there is a deficit in the knowledge of the general public about the signs of melanoma , the severity of the disease , and the possible risks associated with delay . 
nasal midline masses in infants and children . dermoids , encephaloceles , and gliomas . nasal dermoids , gliomas , and encephaloceles are uncommon congenital lesions that result from aberrant embryologic development . we have treated 46 children with these nasal lesions . in view of the potential intracranial connection , patients are at risk for intracranial infection , and early surgical correction is thus imperative . neuroimaging studies may help to predict intracranial involvement . 
somatostatin and analogues in the treatment of cancer . a review somatostatin is a naturally occurring cyclic tetradecapeptide that inhibits release of growth hormone and all gastrointestinal hormones . the beneficial effect of somatostatin in the treatment of certain hypersecretory disorders of hormone excess in well recognized ; however its clinical usefulness has been limited in the past by its extremely short plasma half-life . the development of long-acting somatostatin analogues has provided clinically useful agents for treatment of hormone-producing tumors . in addition to well-known inhibiting effects on hormone release and actions , recent studies using experimental tumor models have demonstrated an antiproliferative effect of somatostatin and its analogues on growth of a variety of neoplasms . the exact role of somatostatin analogues in cancer therapy has yet to be established ; however studies suggest that these agents could provide a useful and relatively nontoxic adjuvant therapy in the treatment of certain tumors . in this review , the oncologic application of somatostatin and possible mechanism of action are examined and current clinical and experimental studies are summarized . 
the potential role of postoperative hepatic artery chemotherapy in patients with high-risk hepatomas . the relationship between operative findings of hepatoma and the postoperative prognosis was studied to clarify indications for adjuvant hepatic arterial chemotherapy after hepatectomy . the results of adjuvant hepatic arterial chemotherapy using 0.4 mg/kg of doxorubicin and 0.12 mg/kg of mitomycin c and infusion of 5-fluorouracil were reported . one hundred sixty patients who had undergone hepatectomy for hepatoma were studied . in the operative findings of hepatoma , with a surgical margin of less than 10 mm , intrahepatic metastasis , tumor embolus in the second or more proximal branch of the portal vein , or lack of capsule formation related to the prognosis were the risk factors for recurrence . in 132 patients with these risk factors the survival rate of 19 patients with adjuvant arterial chemotherapy was significantly higher than for the 113 patients without it . adjuvant hepatic arterial chemotherapy thus may be an effective therapy and should be studied prospectively in patients undergoing hepatectomy for high-risk hepatoma . 
human liver regeneration after major hepatectomy . a study of liver volume by computed tomography . regeneration of the remnant liver after major hepatectomy in humans was studied by computed axial tomography ( ct ) in 12 noncirrhotic and five cirrhotic patients . liver volumes were measured by abdominal ct 3 days , 10 days , 3 months , 6 months , 1 year , and 1.5 years after resection . of the 17 patients , liver remnant volume was increased in 21.2 % + / - 6.7 % and 30.6 % + / - 12.7 % at 3 months and 6 months after resection , respectively . noncirrhotic livers were 28.4 % + / - 9.5 % and 48.4 % + / - 17.8 % larger at 3 and 6 months . for cirrhotic livers , the increase was 8.5 % + / - 3.6 % and 12.9 % + / - 4.5 % . in five patients with right hepatectomy ( 65 % resection ) , the liver remnant volumes were increased 38.4 % + / - 11.7 % , 48.0 % + / - 16.2 % and 95.1 % + / - 4.5 % at 3 months , 6 months , and 1 year after resection , respectively . in seven patients with right partial hepatectomy ( 30 % to 35 % resection ) , the percentages were 7.4 % + / - 3.2 % , 21.8 % + / - 8.4 % , and 63.9 % + / - 18.3 % and in five patients with left lateral segmentectomy ( 15 % resection ) , they were 15.6 % + / - 8.2 % , 27.8 % + / - 12.2 % , and 33.0 % + / - 14.5 % 3 months , 6 months , and 1 year after resections , respectively . noncirrhotic livers showed better regeneration than cirrhotic livers . complete regeneration took about 1 year . the noncirrhotic liver that underwent right lobectomy also needed 1 year to double its postresection volume . 
surgical management of 552 carcinomas of the extrahepatic bile ducts ( gallbladder and periampullary tumors excluded ) . results of the french surgical association survey . five hundred fifty-two cases of primary carcinoma of the extrahepatic bile ducts ( gallbladder and periampullary tumors excluded ) collected from 55 surgical centers were reviewed retrospectively . three hundred seven patients ( 56 % ) had upper-third lesions ( proximal carcinoma ) , whereas 71 ( 13 % ) and 101 ( 18 % ) , respectively , had middle-third and lower-third bile duct carcinomas . the remaining patients had diffuse lesions . resectability rates were 32 % for upper-third localization compared to 47 % and 51 % for middle-third and lower-third localization , respectively . the operative mortality rate for proximal carcinomas was significantly lower with resection ( 16 % ) compared with palliative surgery ( 31 % ) ( p less than 0.05 ) . overall 1-year survival ( operative deaths excluded ) was 68 % after tumor resection compared to 31 % after palliative surgery ( p less than 0.001 ) . long-term results after surgical resection correlated with local and regional extension of the disease . the results of this study show that resection of extrahepatic bile duct carcinomas , particularly in an upper-third localization , often is associated with worthwhile long-term survival . 
defining the role of subtotal colectomy in the treatment of carcinoma of the colon . seventy-two patients with colon cancer were treated by primary subtotal colectomy , including 23 patients with acute and subacute left colon obstruction . there were two operative deaths and no cases of disabling diarrhea . one death occurred in the group with colon obstruction . other indications for subtotal colectomy included multiple polyps associated with the primary tumor ( 32 ) , synchronous carcinomas ( 15 ) , a previous transverse colostomy for obstruction ( 8 ) , associated severe sigmoid diverticular disease ( 2 ) , age less than 50 years with a positive family history ( 3 ) , adherence of the sigmoid loop to a cecal tumor ( 2 ) , and metachronous carcinoma ( 2 ) . there were multiple indications in several patients . subtotal colectomy has a defined role in a wide variety of clinical settings associated with colon cancer , including management of obstruction of the left and sigmoid colon , particularly if the proximal colon can not be evaluated before operation by colonoscopy or barium enema . segmental or regional colonic resections are appropriate if the entire colon can be evaluated before operation and no associated neoplasms are revealed . 
bronchoalveolar carcinoma : factors affecting survival . one hundred thirty-four consecutive patients ( 65 men and 69 women ) underwent pulmonary resection for bronchoalveolar carcinoma . mean age was 65 years . lobectomy was done in 100 patients , pneumonectomy in 10 , segmentectomy in 5 , and wedge excision in 19 . only 10 patients had lymph node metastases ( 7.5 % ) . the neoplasm was solitary in 111 patients ( 82.8 % ) ; 97 were in stage i , 4 were in stage ii , 9 were in stage iiia , and 1 was in stage iiib . there were two operative deaths ( 1.5 % ) . thirty-nine complications occurred in 31 patients . median follow-up was 5.1 years . recurrent bronchoalveolar carcinoma developed in 45 patients . five - and 10-year survival for patients in stage i was 75.2 % and 62.0 % , respectively . survival for patients with t1 n0 m0 neoplasms was identical to expected survival and was 90.5 % at 5 years , as compared with 55.4 % for patients with t2 n0 m0 disease , only 35.9 % for patients with multiple bilateral disease , and 0.0 % for patients with bilateral disease ( p less than 0.0001 ) . other significant factors adversely affecting survival included the presence of signs and symptoms , diffuse malignant invasion , mucin-producing tumors , and the histological absence of scar . we conclude that bronchoalveolar carcinoma has a unique natural history that is more influenced by local neoplastic processes than by lymph node metastases . early aggressive pulmonary resection is safe and offers the potential for cure . the presence of bilateral cancer , however , is ominous . 
primary cysts and tumors of the mediastinum . a retrospective analysis was performed on 230 patients with primary cysts and tumors of the mediastinum seen at our institution from january 1944 to april 1989 . we divided these patients into two groups . group 1 was seen before 1970 and group 2 was seen from january 1970 to april 1989 . there was a significant increase in the prevalence of malignancy in group 2 ( 47.2 % versus 17.1 % ; p less than 0.0001 ) due to an increase in the number of lymphomas ( 22.6 % versus 3.5 % ; p less than 0.001 ) and malignant neurogenic tumors ( 6.8 % versus 1.1 % ; p = 0.0528 ) . there was a significant increase in the number of malignant tumors in the anterior ( 59.5 % versus 30.9 % ; p = 0.0022 ) and paravertebral ( 28.5 % versus 2.8 % ; p = 0.0027 ) compartments in group 2 . more patients with these tumors were symptomatic in group 2 ( 63.6 % versus 5 % ; p = 0.0422 ) . there was an increase of ancillary diagnostic studies performed to evaluate these tumors ( 76.0 % versus 34.5 % ; p = 0.0422 ) . logistic regression analysis identified date of presentation ( p less than 0.005 ) , symptoms ( p less than 0.01 ) , size ( p less than 0.005 ) , and the anterior mediastinal compartment ( p less than 0.005 ) as preoperative predictors of malignancy . the surgical approach to these tumors included more median sternotomy ( 30.1 % versus 10.7 % ; p = 0.0008 ) , anterior mediastinotomy , and cervical mediastinoscopy in group 2 ( 1.1 % versus 17.5 % ; p = 0.0002 ) . long-term results support surgical resection in benign lesions and an aggressive multimodality approach to malignant lesions . 
role of percutaneous fine-needle aspiration biopsy in suspected intrathoracic malignancy . percutaneous fine-needle aspiration ( pfna ) biopsy is an accepted technique for the diagnosis of suspected intrathoracic malignancy , but the appropriate indications for its use have not been clearly defined . to help establish guidelines , we performed a retrospective analysis of 188 patients who underwent pfna biopsy for suspected intrathoracic malignancy . biopsy led to a diagnosis in 72 % ( 135/188 ) of the patients , but in 27 % ( 50/188 ) samples were inadequate for cytological diagnosis , and in 2 % ( 3/188 ) samples were adequate but failed to yield a diagnosis . fifty-three patients underwent surgical intervention , thus allowing histological confirmation of the cytological diagnosis . in patients with a diagnosis from pfna biopsy , operation confirmed malignancy in 97 % ( 37/38 ) and a specific cell type in 79 % ( 30/38 ) . in patients without a diagnosis after biopsy , a malignancy was found in 73 % ( 11/15 ) at the time of operation . this suggests a high rate of accuracy when pfna biopsy provides a diagnosis . however , it also illustrates that a substantial percentage of pfna biopsy attempts fail to yield a diagnosis in patients ultimately found to have malignancies . this implies that pfna biopsy might best be reserved for patients who are not surgical candidates . 
carcinosarcoma of the lung with hypertrophic pulmonary osteoarthropathy . carcinosarcoma of the lung is a rare malignancy . endobronchial and parenchymal variants are classically described . clinicopathological features are often related to anatomical location , as is the case for most lung neoplasms . this case report details the surgical management of a carcinosarcoma in a patient seen with pulmonary osteoarthropathy . 
surgical management of carcinoid heart disease metastatic carcinoid tumor is often seen with flushing , diarrhea , and cardiac symptoms -- the carcinoid syndrome . cardiac failure is often associated with major morbidity and mortality in carcinoid disease . in this report , a case of successful cardiac valvar surgical intervention has resulted in prolonged alleviation of cardiac symptoms and survival . 
adenocarcinoma arising in a foregut cyst of the mediastinum . a case of malignant transformation in a mediastinal cyst of the esophageal reduplication type is presented . the cyst had been recognized 39 years previously , but remained asymptomatic until sudden growth occurred . it was resected totally from the esophagus and the patient recovered well . a review of the literature showed that malignancy in mediastinal foregut cysts is extremely rare . 
inflammatory breast cancer . historically , the prognosis of inflammatory breast cancer has been poor . we conducted a retrospective review to evaluate the recent memorial sloan-kettering cancer center experience , to evaluate the role of combination chemotherapy , and to compare the effect of surgery and radiation on local/regional failure . fifty-six patients with local/regional inflammatory breast cancer diagnosed between 1975 and 1984 were identified . all were treated with combination chemotherapy . overall 5-year survival was 45 % with a 5-year disease-free survival rate of 37 % . twenty-one patients were treated with induction chemotherapy followed by mastectomy and adjuvant chemotherapy . survival and disease-free survival rates were similar to those achieved in patients treated with mastectomy followed by chemotherapy . residual cancer was found in all 21 patients treated with induction chemotherapy , with extensive disease present in 18 , including six of seven complete responders . the local/regional failure rate was 34 % . 
enhanced antitumor reactivity of tumor-sensitized t cells by interferon alfa . tumor-draining lymph node cells from mice bearing the methylcholanthrene-induced mca 106 tumors can be sensitized in vitro to acquire antitumor reactivity . we examined the effect of interferon alfa on the function of cells that underwent in vitro sensitization in adoptive immunotherapy . interferon alfa increased the antitumor reactivity of in vitro sensitized cells in the treatment of mca 106 pulmonary metastases . this effect was evident in irradiated mice , indicating that a host response to the interferon alfa was not required . interferon alfa treatment increased class i major histocompatibility complex antigen expression on tumor cells and increased their susceptibility to lysis by in vitro sensitized cells . these results suggest that interferon alfa enhancement of adoptive immunotherapy was mediated by its effect on tumor cells . interferon alfa may be a useful adjunct to the adoptive immunotherapy of human cancer . 
prognostic significance of carcinoembryonic antigen in colorectal carcinoma . serum levels before and after resection and before recurrence . the use of carcinoembryonic antigen was evaluated in 425 patients with a mean follow-up of 48 months . the preoperative and postoperative carcinoembryonic antigen levels were predictive of recurrence and survival independent of the tumor stage . in a multivariate regression analysis of age , location , tumor stage , and preoperative and postoperative carcinoembryonic antigen levels , the latter three factors were significant prognostic variables with respect to the adjusted survival . recurrent disease was found in 42 % of patients , excluding patients with stage iv disease . the carcinoembryonic antigen level at recurrence was greater than 5 ng/ml in 79 % of the patients and in 89 % of the intra-abdominal recurrences . carcinoembryonic antigen level at recurrence was not predictive of postrecurrence survival except in the subgroup of locoregional disease . the life span in patients with liver and lung metastases was not influenced by carcinoembryonic antigen level at recurrence . preoperative and postoperative carcinoembryonic antigen levels can indicate a poorer prognostic group of patients with colorectal cancer who may benefit from adjuvant treatment . the carcinoembryonic antigen at recurrence can be used effectively to diagnose intra-abdominal recurrences and project survival after development of local/regional disease . 
technique of photodynamic therapy for disseminated intraperitoneal malignant neoplasms . phase i study . patients with disseminated intraperitoneal malignant neoplasms were given intra-abdominal photodynamic therapy . patients received dihematoporphyrin ethers intravenously 48 to 72 hours before laparotomy at doses of 1.5 to 3.0 mg/kg . at operation , as much tumor as possible was resected . red light ( 630 nm ) was delivered to all peritoneal surfaces from an argon-pumped dye laser at doses ranging from 0.2 to 3.0 j/cm2 in an escalating fashion . viscera and peritoneal surfaces were anatomically isolated and exposed to light for intervals calculated to deliver the prescribed energy . light was delivered to mesentery and bowel by a flat-cut optical fiber , while other areas , including diaphragm , viscera , omental bursa , gutters , and pelvis , were delivered light through a diffusing wand . twenty-three patients ( 13 with ovarian cancer , eight with sarcoma , and two with pseudomyxoma peritoneii ) underwent photodynamic therapy . five of eight patients cleared positive peritoneal cytologies after treatment . six patients remained clinically free of disease for up to 18 months , and five patients had treatment-related complications . intraperitoneal phototherapy is technically feasible and deserving of clinical evaluation . 
prognostic factors in primary retroperitoneal soft-tissue sarcomas . we analyzed independent treatment variables ( age , sex , signs and symptoms , site , size , histopathologic findings , grade , and clinical presentation ) and treatment-dependent variables ( resectability , type of operation , surgical margins , surgical boundaries , microscopic margins , adjuvant radiotherapy , and adjuvant chemotherapy ) in 80 patients with primary retroperitoneal soft-tissue sarcomas admitted from 1982 through 1988 . both univariate and multivariate analysis of survival and disease-free survival were performed . the major factor in survival outcome was the ability to completely resect the lesion . when the 62 patients who underwent complete resection were examined , the only independent prognostic factor for both survival and disease-free survival was grade . we conclude that completeness of resection and grade of the lesion are primary determinants of survival . once all tumor is macroscopically removed , no advantage could be demonstrated by more extensive surgical resection or current adjuvant therapy . 
mechanism of surgical stress impairment of human perioperative natural killer cell cytotoxicity . natural killer ( nk ) cells are an important defense against intravascular tumor dissemination . tumor embolization can occur at surgery , so we tested whether surgical stress decreased perioperative nk cell cytotoxicity , and examined the underlying mechanism of suppression . patients with solid tumors underwent nk cell cytotoxicity assay just before and 24 hours after surgery in a 3-hour chromium 51 release assay . the nk cell cytotoxicity was significantly decreased postoperatively . we considered that surgical nk cell impairment might be due to ( 1 ) nk cell redistribution , ( 2 ) presence of suppressor cells , or ( 3 ) direct " toxic " effects on nk cells . impaired nk cell cytotoxicity was not due to nk cell redistribution , because differential counts showed no significant changes in the percentage of large granular lymphocyte nk morphology . to isolate possible suppressor cells , postoperative cells from patients were selectively depleted of nk cells using anti-leu-11b monoclonal antibody plus complement ; these cells were then mixed with autologous preoperative cells . postoperative nk cell cytotoxicity was markedly impaired , but the postoperative nk depleted cells did not suppress preoperative nk cells . we conclude that nk cell functional impairment from surgical stress is due to direct " toxic " effects on nk cells rather than either nk cell redistribution or the generation of nk-directed suppressor cells . 
radioimmunoguided surgery using iodine 125 b72 .3 in patients with colorectal cancer . preliminary data using b72 .3 murine monoclonal antibody labeled with iodine 125 suggested that both clinically apparent as well as occult sites of colorectal cancer could be identified intraoperatively using a hand-held gamma detecting probe . we report the preliminary data of a multicenter trial of this approach in patients with primary or recurrent colorectal cancer . one hundred four patients with primary , suspected , or known recurrent colorectal cancer received an intravenous infusion of 1 mg of b72 .3 monoclonal antibody radiolabeled with 7.4 x 10 bq of iodine 125 . twenty-six patients with primary colorectal cancer and 72 patients with recurrent colorectal cancer were examined . using the gamma detecting probe , 78 % of the patients had localization of the antibody in their tumor ; this included 75 % of primary tumor sites and 63 % of all recurrent tumor sites ; 9.2 % of all tumor sites identified represented occult sites detected only with the gamma detecting probe . the overall sensitivity was 77 % and a predictive value of a positive detection was 78 % . a total of 30 occult sites in 26 patients were identified . in patients with recurrent cancer , the antibody study provided unique data that precluded resection in 10 patients , and in another eight patients it extended the potentially curative procedure . 
radical resection for carcinoma of the ampulla of vater . one hundred four consecutive patients who underwent radical resection for ampullary cancer between 1965 and 1989 were retrospectively reviewed . frequent clinical findings included jaundice ( 67 % ) , significant ( greater than 10 % ) weight loss ( 42 % ) , and anemia ( 27 % ) . eighty-seven patients ( 84 % ) underwent a subtotal pancreatectomy , and 17 patients ( 16 % ) underwent a total pancreatectomy . the postoperative mortality was 5.7 % ( six patients ) , and reoperation for postoperative complications was required in six patients . the 5 - and 10-year survival rates were 34 % and 25 % , respectively . eight patients died of tumor recurrence more than 5 years after resection . patient survival was significantly impaired by microscopic lymphatic invasion , regional nodal metastasis , tumor grade , and the epithelium of origin . in a multivariate analysis , only microscopic lymphatic invasion significantly reduced patient survival . radical resection for ampullary cancer can be performed with a low morbidity and mortality and should remain the procedure of choice for ampullary carcinoma . 
effect of splenectomy on morbidity and survival following curative gastrectomy for carcinoma . we performed a retrospective analysis of 392 patients who underwent curative resection of gastric adenocarcinoma to evaluate the impact of splenectomy on survival from gastric cancer and postoperative morbidity . twelve factors , including splenectomy , were associated with a poor prognosis by univariate analysis . multivariate analysis identified six of these factors , but not splenectomy , as independently predictive of death due to gastric cancer . the apparent adverse effect of splenectomy was due to its association with other significant risk factors . postoperative complications occurred more commonly in patients who underwent splenectomy than in those who did not ( 45 % vs 21 % ) ; patients in the splenectomy group also had a higher percentage of infectious complications than those in the nonsplenectomy group ( 75 % vs 47 % ) . we conclude that splenectomy has no direct influence on survival , but that it increases the morbidity of curative gastrectomy and should be avoided unless the spleen is close to or invaded by the tumor . 
the use of a biodegradable mesh to prevent radiation-associated small-bowel injury . radiation-associated small bowel injury occurs in up to 50 % of patients receiving postoperative radiotherapy following pelvic cancer surgery . we describe our experience using a biodegradable mesh that allows the small bowel to be supported above the pelvic inlet and is totally absorbed following radiation therapy . between 1985 and 1989 , 45 procedures were performed in patients with carcinoma of the rectum ( anterior resection in 15 patients , abdominoperineal resection in 23 patients , pelvic exenteration in six patients , and proctocolectomy in one patient ) . in 30 patients a polyglycolic acid ( dexon ) mesh was used , and in 15 patients a polyglactin 910 ( vicryl ) mesh was used . forty-four patients received postoperative radiotherapy . the mean ( + / - sem ) dose was 56.8 + / - 18.4 gy . there were no immediate complications related to the mesh . follow-up ranged from 12 to 53 months ( median follow-up , 34 months ) . with the exception of two patients who had a polyglactin 910 mesh and who developed bowel obstruction due to adhesions under the anterior abdominal wall , there has been no documented incidence of clinical radiation-associated small bowel injury . the use of the absorbable mesh may permit us to use higher doses of postoperative radiotherapy without the associated hazard of radiation-associated small bowel injury . 
5-year results of cisplatin and fluorouracil infusion in head and neck cancer . as part of the developmental process for the head and neck intergroup trial of adjuvant chemotherapy for advanced resectable head and neck carcinoma , in 1981 the radiation therapy oncology group , philadelphia , pa , conducted two nonrandomized pilot studies using chemotherapy consisting of three courses of cisplatin and fluorouracil infusion . chemotherapy was administered prior to surgery in 42 patients ( induction ) and after surgery in an additional 29 patients ( sequential ) . the populations were roughly comparable with respect to tumor site and stage . twelve of the 42 patients in the induction group and seven of the 29 in the sequential group are alive and with no evidence of disease at the last reported follow-up . the median survival was 31 months in the sequential group vs 20 months in the induction group . only two of the 26 patients with less than a complete clinical response following induction chemotherapy are still alive . twenty-seven of the 42 patients who received induction chemotherapy did not undergo surgery as initially planned . despite the lack of surgery , at 5 years the survival between the two groups was not significantly different ( 27 % for the induction group vs 23 % for the sequential group ) . 
circulating c1q-binding macromolecules and their relationship to radiographic characteristics of laryngeal cancer . circulating macromolecules capable of binding the first component of complement ( c1qbm ) may represent subcellular components of tissue/tumor debris generated from rapidly proliferating invasive disease . thirty-eight patients were randomly selected from 74 untreated patients with laryngeal cancer on the basis of disease stage and c1qbm levels . c1qbm levels were correlated with computed tomographic evidence of tumor necrosis and/or thyroid cartilage destruction . results show that patients with stage iii/iv disease with tissue necrosis and/or cartilage invasion had demonstrably higher c1qbm levels than did individuals with similarly staged disease with no evidence of these radiographically defined characteristics ( 120 + / - 81 micrograms/ml vs 18 + / - 15 micrograms/ml ) ; the strongest association was reflected by the area of necrosis within regional lymph metastases . elevated c1qbm level in patients with stage iii/iv laryngeal cancer thus reflects highly aggressive disease , which is less responsive to therapeutic intervention . 
radiotherapy . the mainstay in the treatment of early glottic carcinoma . early squamous cell carcinoma of the glottis may be effectively treated with surgery or radiation therapy . controversy exists as to whether radiation therapy effects survival at the expense of vocal function by ultimately requiring more total laryngectomies for salvage of local tumor recurrence . this study reviewed the medical records of 185 patients with t1 or t2 , no invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the glottis treated with primary radiation therapy between 1969 and 1984 . all patients were followed up for a minimum of 5 years after completion of therapy . one hundred sixty-one patients met the criteria for local control analysis . radiation therapy controlled disease in 93 % ( 105 of 113 ) of patients with t1 lesions and 73 % ( 38 of 48 ) of those with t2 tumors . ultimate control of disease for t1 and t2 lesions , including surgical salvage , was 111 ( 98 % ) of 113 and 44 ( 92 % ) of 48 patients , respectively . the rate of successful surgical salvage was 75 % ( t1 ) and 70 % ( t2 ) . the t2 lesions with impaired vocal cord mobility or anterior commissure disease were identified as being at increased risk for recurrence after primary radiation therapy . overall voice preservation was 90 % . our data demonstrate that radiation therapy effects disease-free survival rates that are comparable to those produced by surgery , without sacrificing voice . although a small percentage of patients with selected early glottic lesions may be more effectively treated with primary conservation surgery , these data do not support a change in philosophy concerning primary treatment of early glottic cancer with radiation therapy . 
primary sarcomas of the major salivary glands . sarcomas arising in the major salivary glands are rare . this article presents the clinicopathologic features of 11 patients with primary sarcomas of the parotid gland ( eight men and three women aged 7 to 75 years ; mean age , 42 years ) . the 11 sarcomas were histologically typified as follows : three malignant fibrous histiocytomas and two each of neurosarcomas , rhabdomyosarcomas , fibrosarcomas , and osteosarcomas . four patients experienced disease recurrences , and seven patients developed metastases . seven patients died of their sarcomas , with a mean survival time of 30 months . four patients were alive from 5 to 12 years ( one each with angiomatoid malignant fibrous histiocytoma , embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma , fibrosarcoma , and neurosarcoma ) . prognosis correlated with size of the neoplasm , type of sarcoma , and histologic grade . in this respect , salivary gland sarcomas behaved in identical fashion to their soft-tissue counterparts . 
effective destruction of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia ( cin ) 3 at 100 degrees c using the semm cold coagulator : 14 years experience a total of 1628 women with cin 3 treated with the semm cold coagulator between 1975 and 1989 was followed primarily by cytology . the standard suitability criteria for ablation were adhered to except that patients were treated at their first visit when the colposcopist expected that the diagnosis would be no worse than cin 3 . overall 97 % of the women were treated at their first visit . in 30 women ( 2 % ) the histology was glandular or worse than expected , but 22 of these showed no persistent cervical disease subsequently . follow-up was achieved for 87 % at 10 years . in actuarial terms the primary success rate was 95 % at 1 year and 92 % at 5 years , it was similar for all age groups . repeat cold-coagulation for persistent/recurrent cin 3 was less successful and is not advised . the outcome for 226 pregnancies established after treatment is known . the rates for miscarriage , preterm or operative delivery were not increased . cold-coagulation of cin 3 at 100 degrees c as performed by us is as effective as any other treatment and calls into question the need for more expensive practices . 
a randomized control trial of two cervical spatulas the sampling efficacy of the ayre and rocket cervical spatulas was compared in a randomized controlled trial involving 533 women who were attending a colposcopy clinic either for investigation of cytological abnormality or for review after treatment of cin . smears were compared with respect to the presence of cytological abnormality and two types of normal cervical epithelial cells ( endocervical and immature metaplastic cells ) which are considered indicators of adequate cytological sampling . smears taken with the rocket spatula were significantly less likely to contain immature metaplastic cells ( 95 % ci on difference in proportion ; 5-30 % ) , but more likely to contain endocervical cells ( 95 % ci 16-36 % ) . no significant difference was found in the proportion of smears containing one or other type of indicator cell or in the yield of abnormal smears . it is concluded that the rocket spatula offered no advantage when used in these circumstances . this study illustrates how spurious conclusions of sampling efficacy can be drawn if only one type of indicator cell is used as an endpoint . 
vaginal epithelial abnormalities in patients with cin : clinical and pathological features and management . of 4147 women who had cin treated by laser at the regional gynaecological oncology centre , queen elizabeth hospital , gateshead , 103 ( 2.5 % ) had co-existing vaginal epithelial abnormalities . cin 3 was the histological diagnosis most often associated with vaginal lesions . the upper vagina was almost always involved . in 67 % the lesion in the cervix appeared to be confluent with that in the vagina . even when the lesions were confluent , biopsies form the cervical and vaginal components did not always show the same grade of intraepithelial neoplasia and in some biopsies they showed different lesions . laser treatment appears to be effective for the vaginal lesions and is therefore recommended although , in selected patients , careful follow up alone may suffice . 
treatment of anovulation due to polycystic ovarian syndrome by laparoscopic ovarian electrocautery . our experience of ovarian electrocautery for the treatment of polycystic ovarian syndrome ( pcos ) in ten women is described . we found that nine responded favourably , either ovulating spontaneously or becoming more responsive to ovulation induction . there was a significant and persistent fall in serum testosterone levels , and a transient fall with subsequent rise in inhibin . we recommend that laparoscopic ovarian electrocautery is considered as an alternative to ovulation induction with gonadotrophins , in women with pcos who fail to respond to clomiphene citrate . 
the immunoperoxidase localization of tumour markers in ovarian cancer : the value of cea , ema , cytokeratin and dd9 . primary tumours from 40 patients with epithelial ovarian cancer , treated at st thomas 's hospital over a 10-year period , were studied for the immunocytochemical expression of the following tumour markers in formalin-fixed paraffin embedded material : carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) , epithelial membrane antigen ( ema ) , cytokeratin ( cam 5.2 ) , and dd9 . an indirect immunoperoxidase staining technique was used . all of the tumours were positive for ema and cam 5.2 , and 30 % of them were positive for both cea and dd9 . the absence of cea and dd9 may be of value in differentiating between metastatic abdominal adenocarcinomas of ovarian origin and those of gastrointestinal origin , but no indication of prognosis was obtained using these epithelial markers . the strong and widespread staining of all the tumours for ema suggests that this may be a useful marker for detecting metastatic or recurrent disease by immunoscintigraphy . 
hormone replacement therapy and survival after surgery for ovarian cancer objective -- to evaluate whether hormone replacement therapy affects survival in women who have undergone bilateral salphingo-oophorectomy because of epithelial ovarian cancer . design -- retrospective analysis by review of patients ' notes and questionnaires completed by general practitioners to compare the overall survival and disease free survival in patients with ovarian cancer who did or did not receive hormone replacement therapy after diagnosis . data were analysed by cox regression , with hormone replacement therapy as a time dependent covariate because patients who received hormone replacement did so at different times after diagnosis . setting -- gynaecological oncology unit of royal marsden hospital . patients -- 373 patients aged 50 years or younger who attended the hospital from 1972 to 1988 . all of the women had undergone bilateral salpingoophorectomy for epithelial ovarian cancer . in all , 78 had received hormone replacement therapy , starting at a median of four months after diagnosis . intervention -- a questionnaire was sent to the general practitioners of all patients who were not recorded as having received hormone replacement therapy . main outcome measures -- overall survival and disease free survival . results -- there was no significant difference in survival between women receiving hormone replacement therapy and those not receiving it after accounting for the effects of other known prognostic factors ( stage of cancer , differentiation of tumour , histological results , and time to relapse ) . the relative risk of dying in those who received hormone replacement therapy was 0.73 ( 95 % confidence interval 0.44 to 1.20 ) . in addition , there was no significant difference in disease free survival ( relative risk in those receiving hormone replacement therapy was 0.90 ; 95 % confidence interval 0.52 to 1.54 ) . conclusions -- this study shows that hormone replacement therapy is unlikely to have a detrimental effect on the prognosis of patients with ovarian cancer , but this would be shown conclusively only by a randomised controlled trial . 
misinterpretation of the upper parathyroid adenoma on thallium-201 / technetium-99m subtraction scintigraphy . pre-operative thallium-technetium subtraction scintigraphy of 50 patients with primary hyperparathyroidism , which was subsequently proven on histology to be due to an adenoma , was compared with operative findings . six scans were negative and seven uninterpretable . of the remaining 37 patients , 34 had correct scan prediction of the anatomical locations of the adenomas . on examination of the origins of the adenomas , all six scintigraphic predictions of upper adenomas corresponded to tumours arising from the upper gland found at operation . of the 25 lower predictions , there was one false positive and 16 were correct , i.e. of lower gland origin , but eight were found to originate from the upper gland . this misinterpretation is though to be due to the prolapse of an adenoma arising from the upper gland towards the lower pole of the thyroid , thereby mimicking a lower lesion on the scan . 
ultrasound in the investigation of the right iliac fossa mass . patients presenting with a right iliac fossa ( rif ) mass are a diagnostic problem . the objective of this study was to assess the role of ultrasound ( us ) in their investigation . a prospective series of 50 patients presenting with a clinically suspected rif mass was examined by us and the finding correlated with the final diagnosis . there was a positive finding in 34 patients ( 68 % ) . ultrasound correctly identified the organ of origin in 33 ( 97 % ) and was able to guide the patients ' further management . in 12 cases no abnormality was found in the rif , of which 11 had no positive findings at follow-up and one was shown to have an unrelated abnormality at laparotomy . in four cases the findings were due to normal variants . ultrasound is the imaging modality of first choice in patients presenting with a rif mass . 
carcinoma of the breast : measurement and the management of treatment . i . the value of the data . this is the first of a series of papers in which we shall explore some insights into the biological changes which accompany the treatment of human tumours which may be obtained through estimation of volume changes in relation to treatment . we have adopted a working hypothesis that regression slopes reflect the composition of individual tumours and , indirectly , their intrinsic growth rate rather than the effectiveness of treatment . the breast has proved to be a suitable site for measurement and our interpretation of the results has led to the development of a new style of management for carcinoma of the breast : measurement based sequential therapy ( mbst ) . in this paper the method of measurement and detailed statistical evaluation of the quality of the data from 262 patients ( 263 tumours ) is presented . exponential regression lines have been fitted to describe volume changes in relation to treatment by radiation , chemotherapy and hormones . a simple classification of steepness of slopes is introduced . 
selective uptake of toxic nucleoside ( 125iudr ) by resistant cancer . we report uptake of a thymidine analogue 125-iodine-5-iodo-2 ' - deoxyuridine ( 125iudr ) by nude mice bearing human xenografts of choriocarcinoma or colonic cancer . when 125iudr was given alone , uptake by intestinal tissues was 5-10 times greater than by the tumours as measured by tissue gamma counting . this ratio was reversed when hydroxyurea or cytosine arabinoside were used as inhibitors of ribonucleotide reductase and were given in combination with 5-fluorouracil or methotrexate to inhibit thymidine synthesis shortly before injecting 125iudr . counting the radioactivity in tissues removed 24 hours after 125iudr gave tumour to highest normal tissue ratios of up to 15:1 , but the corresponding nuclear grain counts , which is probably a more reliable indicator of selective uptake into dna , were in excess of 100:1 . the addition of unlabelled iudr to the regimen only reduced the uptake of 125iudr when given in relatively large amounts . for this approach to be exploited it is concluded that the tumour must be resistant at the cell level to the inhibitor of dna synthesis either de novo or as a result of prior exposure to it . this inhibitor can then be used to block uptake of the potentially toxic nucleoside analogue by normal renewal tissues while it is taken up by the resistant cancer cells . by inhibiting synthesis of the corresponding normal nucleosides with inhibitors to which the cancer cells are not resistant , incorporation of the toxic analogues into tumour dna was enhanced . although 125iudr is a convenient agent for exploring this approach and is highly cytotoxic when incorporated in dna , the clinical potential of reverse role chemotherapy probably lies with the development of toxic non-radioactive nucleoside analogues . 
tissue dose estimates following the selective uptake of 125iudr and other radiolabelled thymidine precursors in resistant tumours . for the purposes of evaluation of the therapeutic potential of the radiohalogenated thymidine analogue 125iudr , estimation of the radiation dose to the tumour cells and normal tissues is important . to determine the dose to any tissue from the radionuclide 125i is not simple , since the major emissions are very short-range auger electrons . the cytotoxicity of 125i is strongly dependent on the position of the decay relative to the dna , the principal target for cell sterilization . estimates of the cytotoxicity of 125i based on the traditional mird recommended formulation ( icru report 32 , 1979 ) may produce gross underestimates if it is incorporated into the dna via the thymidine precursor 125iudr . in this work , tissue count and autoradiography ( arg ) data from studies by bagshawe et al were used to estimate tissue doses following the administration of 125iudr to ls174/t ( a colorectal carcinoma ) and cc3 ( a choriocarcinoma ) tumour-bearing animals , after a hydroxyurea block of the normal tissue turnover . the tumour cell toxicity is estimated from arg data on the degree of 125i incorporation into the cell nucleus . major drawbacks with 125i for this type of therapy are the long 60-day half-life , leading to radiological and waste disposal problems and the extreme short range of the radiotoxic effects . possible alternative radiohalogens , 13i , 77br , 131i and 211at , are suggested in place of 125i in the thymidine analog iododeoxyuridine . dose calculations are performed and cytotoxicities estimated on the assumption that their biological retention characteristics are the same as for 125iudr . 
importance of the omentum in the development of intra-abdominal metastases . areas of trauma are preferred sites for metastatic tumour growth . in extensive intra-abdominal tumour recurrence the omentum is invariably involved . the importance of the omentum in the development of tumours at sites of intra-abdominal trauma has been investigated . colonic anastomoses were performed in hooded-lister rats with and without omentectomy . animals received intraluminal or intraperitoneal injections of a syngeneic tumour . with intraluminal injection , tumour occurred at the anastomosis and in the omentum in 38 and 43 per cent of animals respectively but following omentectomy the values were 14 and 9 per cent ( omental remnant ) . with intraperitoneal administration tumour occurred in 53 per cent at the anastomosis and in 79 per cent in the omentum compared with 16 and 29 per cent ( in omental remnant ) following omentectomy . in this model a reduced ability of an anastomosis to support ' seeded ' tumour following removal of the omentum is demonstrated and the development of local recurrence from spilled tumour cells during operation may be enhanced by , or be dependent on , the proximity of the omentum . 
evaluation of the results of oesophagectomy for oesophageal cancer . the long-term results of standard techniques of oesophagectomy were examined in 127 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the oesophagus . a near-total oesophagectomy with a cervical anastomosis was performed in 93 patients and an oesophagogastrectomy with an intrathoracic anastomosis was carried out in 34 patients . one hundred and eight patients had a curative oesophagectomy and 19 patients had a palliative resection . eight patients received radiotherapy to the tumour bed . there were 15 deaths in hospital and the overall 5-year survival rate including perioperative deaths was 13.2 per cent . survival was adversely affected by incomplete excision of macroscopic tumour ( p less than 0.001 ) , positive regional lymph nodes ( p less than 0.05 ) and distant lymphatic metastases ( p less than 0.02 ) . the 5-year survival rate of patients with tumour invasion beyond the oesophageal wall ( t3 ) and negative nodes was 20 per cent . postoperative irradiation had no effect on the survival of patients with gross residual tumour . complete clearance of microscopic tumour was achieved in 50 per cent of patients with t3 tumours and this group did not benefit from adjuvant radiotherapy . survival in patients undergoing curative oesophagectomy with residual microscopic tumour , however , was significantly improved by irradiation of the tumour bed ( p less than 0.01 ) . these results suggest that the survival of patients can be increased significantly by the excision of all gross tumour and by identification of those who will benefit from local radiotherapy . 
prolonged intermittent clamping of the portal triad during hepatectomy . from 112 consecutive hepatectomies for malignant tumours performed with intermittent portal triad clamping , we have retrospectively selected the 20 cases in which clamping exceeded 90 min . intermittent portal clamping of prolonged duration was used because of abnormal liver texture in 13 cases ( mainly patients who had received intra-arterial chemotherapy ) and/or because of technically difficult hepatectomy . the mean ( s.d. ) duration of intermittent portal clamping was 109 ( 18 ) min and in two cases it exceeded 140 min ( 148 and 150 min ) . there was no postoperative mortality and the rate of postoperative morbidity was 35 per cent . postoperative changes in biochemical liver tests were not major and transient hepatic failure occurred in only one patient following subtotal resection of the liver . we conclude that intermittent portal clamping is a useful manoeuvre in partial hepatectomy when resection is difficult or prolonged , or when the liver parenchyma is abnormal . such clamping may be used for longer than 120 min without major complications . 
detection of colorectal liver metastases using intraoperative ultrasonography . intraoperative ultrasonography of the liver has been carried out in 99 patients undergoing surgery for colorectal cancer . palpation of the liver , preoperative abdominal ultrasonography and computed tomography scanning were also performed in all patients . metastases were identified in 26 of the 99 patients ( 26 per cent ) . intraoperative ultrasonography diagnosed more metastases than palpation , abdominal ultrasonography or ct scanning , identifying metastases in 24 of the 26 patients , including six patients in whom the metastases were not detected by any other technique . identification and localization of impalpable liver metastases is therefore possible using intraoperative ultrasonography . 
proliferation characteristics of human colorectal carcinomas measured in vivo . the cell proliferation kinetics of 100 human colonic and rectal adenocarcinomas have been studied in vivo by bromodeoxyuridine infusion and multiparameter flow cytometry . a total of 97 patients , three with synchronous tumours , consented to receive a single bolus dose of 250 mg between 2.4 and 16 h before curative or palliative surgery . by this method , the ploidy pattern , the total and aneuploid labelling indices ( li ) , the s phase duration ( ts ) and the potential doubling time ( tpot ) can be estimated . of the tumours 48 were diploid and 52 were aneuploid . the mean and median total li of 100 tumours were 9.0 per cent ( range 0.7-22 .2 per cent ) . the mean aneuploid li was 12.1 per cent ( median 12.0 per cent , range 2.0-25 .5 per cent ) , and was significantly higher than the total li ( p = 0.01 ) . the labelling index alone is not a sufficient indicator of proliferation , because the ts also varies within and between tumours . the intertumour range of the ts varied from 4.0 to 28.6 h. the mean was 14.1 h and the median was 13.1 h. the mean tpot was 5.9 days ( median 3.9 days ) with a range of 1.7-21 .4 days . no correlation was found between any kinetic parameters and the dukes ' classification or histological classification . the correlation between proliferation and prognosis will be established in due course . 
primary papillary carcinoma of a thyroglossal duct cyst : report of a case and literature review . thyroglossal duct cysts are the most common anomaly in thyroid development . they are twice as frequent as branchial cleft abnormalities and , in children , are second only to enlarged cervical lymph nodes as the cause of neck mass . generally , duct cysts are benign , but 1 per cent of cases may be malignant . from the world literature , 114 cases of malignant thyroglossal cysts were available for review . with the addition of our own case , we discuss 115 instances of duct cysts . the different types of neoplasia described included thyroid papillary carcinoma in 81.7 per cent , mixed papillary-follicular carcinoma in 6.9 per cent , squamous cell carcinoma in 5.2 per cent , follicular and adenocarcinoma in 1.7 per cent each , and malignant struma , epidermoid carcinoma and anaplastic carcinoma in 0.9 per cent each . of the 115 cases surveyed , 35 thyroid glands were examined microscopically ; of these , four ( 11.4 per cent ) contained malignant foci . whether these are primary malignancies of the thyroglossal duct cysts or metastases is discussed . 
solitary thyroid nodule : a prospective evaluation of nuclear scanning and ultrasonography . the aim of this study was to assess prospectively the value of thyroid nuclear scans and ultrasound examination in the preoperative investigation of patients with a solitary thyroid nodule . total thyroid lobectomy for a solitary thyroid nodule was performed in 68 cases . each patient had a thyroid isotope scan ( except two women who were pregnant ) and thyroid ultrasound examination . there were 10 ( 15 per cent ) malignant nodules , 11 ( 16 per cent ) benign neoplastic nodules and 47 ( 69 per cent ) benign non-neoplastic nodules . all of the patients with malignant nodules who were scanned had a solitary cold nodule on thyroid scan , as did 40 ( 69 per cent ) of those with benign solitary nodules . ultrasound examination of the thyroid suggested correctly that one of 16 ( 6 per cent ) cystic lesions , four of 16 ( 25 per cent ) complex solid-cystic lesions and three of 18 ( 17 per cent ) of solid lesions were malignant . one lesion reported as multinodular on ultrasonography and one reported as normal also turned out to be malignant . thyroid isotope scans and ultrasound do not accurately differentiate between benign and malignant conditions and their routine use in the investigation of a solitary thyroid nodule should be abandoned . 
dna aneuploidy in follicular thyroid neoplasia . the potential value of dna aneuploidy , in distinguishing benign from malignant follicular thyroid neoplasms , was studied . the nuclear dna content of 65 follicular thyroid neoplasms ( 52 adenomas and 13 carcinomas ) was determined by flow cytometric analysis of paraffin embedded material ; in 58 cases preparations were technically satisfactory . in 22 follicular neoplasms dna analysis was also performed on fresh material obtained by fine needle aspiration of surgical specimens . cell cycle analysis was performed on both fresh and fixed specimens . an aneuploid dna profile was found on analysis of fixed tissue in eight of 45 ( 18 per cent ) follicular adenomas and four of 13 ( 31 per cent ) follicular carcinomas . dna aneuploidy was also found in six of the 22 ( 27 per cent ) fresh preparations from follicular adenomas . the frequency of dna aneuploidy in apparently benign and malignant follicular neoplasms was similar . follicular thyroid neoplasia are best regarded as a single entity with a low incidence of local and distant spread . all follicular neoplasia are therefore best excised . 
further evaluation of radical surgery following radiotherapy for advanced parotid carcinoma . a series of 30 patients who have been treated for advanced carcinoma of the parotid gland using radiotherapy followed by radical surgery is presented . three patients deteriorated during preoperative radiotherapy and remained unfit for surgery ; the remaining 27 underwent radical parotidectomy with block dissection of the neck . twelve patients received additional radiotherapy after operation . of those patients undergoing surgery , three have been lost to follow-up , 17 have died and seven remain alive ; the period of follow-up ranges from 3 to 133 months . fourteen patients remained free of recurrent disease at death or when last seen , and six patients developed a local recurrence at a medium period of 10.5 ( range 3-36 ) months after surgery . for all 30 patients , the cumulative proportion surviving for 5 years was 30 per cent . 
axial myoclonus of propriospinal origin . three patients are described with nonrhythmic repetitive axial myoclonic jerks causing symmetric flexion of the neck , trunk , hips and knees . no electrophysiological evidence of a cortical or brainstem reticular origin for the myoclonus was found . in the first patient the axial jerks only occurred spontaneously . the latencies of recruitment of spinal segments during a jerk indicated that the discharge arose in the mid thoracic cord and then slowly spread at about 5 ms-1 up and down the cord to involve rostral and caudal segments . no structural lesion was identified in this patient . in the second patient spontaneous and reflex axial jerks developed following the excision of a cervical haemangioblastoma . in the stimulus-induced jerks the relative latencies of muscles innervated by rostral and caudal spinal segments suggested that the myoclonus originated between the upper cervical and midthoracic cord . in the final patient , emg activity during spontaneous and stimulus-induced jerks commenced in the rectus abdominis , and was followed by later activity in muscles innervated by rostral spinal segments , suggesting that the myoclonus originated in the midthoracic cord . no structural lesion was identified in this patient . electrophysiological evidence is used to argue a spinal origin for these axial jerks in all 3 cases . there are striking features common both to this form of human myoclonus and to long propriospinal pathways identified in animals . the new concept of propriospinal myoclonus is suggested . 
hemodialysis for acute renal failure in patients with hematologic malignancies . objective : to assess the prognosis of patients with hematologic malignancies in acute renal failure who require hemodialysis . design : retrospective study . setting : icu . patients : forty-three consecutive patients . methods : prognostic analysis using both univariate and multivariate ( stepwise regression ) methods . results : fifteen ( 35 % ) patients recovered from acute renal failure and 12 ( 28 % ) were discharged from the icu . the prognosis of patients with acute renal failure linked to sepsis is poorer than the prognosis of the patients with acute renal failure from other etiologies . only one patient survived in the former group ( n = 26 ) and 11 in the latter group ( n = 17 ) ; p less than .0001 in multivariate analysis . when accompanied by associated respiratory failure , mortality rate was higher ( 93 % vs. 33 % ; p less than .0001 ) . the simplified acute physiology score ( saps ) calculated within the first 24 hr of admission was significantly ( p less than .001 ) related to mortality when the saps was greater than or equal to 13 . the presence of neutropenia and the type of hematologic malignancy were not related to a worse prognosis . tolerance to hemodialysis appeared good , and complications were rare . 
the value of radioimmunoguided surgery in first and second look laparotomy for colorectal cancer . radioimmunoguided surgery ( rigs ) using an anti-cea ( a5b7 ) monoclonal antibody has been assessed in 52 patients ( 43 primary excisions and nine second look procedures ) undergoing surgery for colorectal carcinoma . the antibody localized in 97.8 percent of primary tumours and in 88.8 percent of the principal tumor in second look procedures . additional information concerning the extent of primary tumor was obtained in 11 of 43 patients ( 25.5 percent ) undergoing excision of primary carcinoma and five of nine patients ( 55 percent ) in the second look series . incorrect information was obtained about the extent of the primary tumour in six patients ( 11.3 percent ) , whereas no incorrect information was obtained during second look procedures . rigs correctly predicted the subsequent dukes ' staging in 77 percent of first look cases ( sensitivity 65 percent , specificity 90 percent ) , although accurate identification of individual nodes was impossible . the technique influenced the surgical procedure performed in 2 of 43 cases ( 4.6 percent ) in primary surgery and in three of nine patients undergoing second look laparotomy ( 33 percent ) . rigs in primary colorectal carcinoma may provide additional information concerning extent of locally advanced tumors in particular and the principle that the subsequent surgery may be influenced has been established . the technique appears to have a greater role in second look procedures where it may help determine the extent of recurrent tumour . larger follow-up series are required to define how the additional information provided by this technique may best be exploited . 
nuclear shape as a prognostic discriminant in colorectal carcinoma . in search for a more reliable prognostic discriminant , a retrospective analysis of 100 cases of colorectal carcinoma having undergone curative resection and followed for at least 5 years were assessed by nuclear morphometry . each case was staged according to the dukes ' classification as well as graded histologically . for all patients in this series , the perimeter , area , and nuclear shape factor of 50 interphase nuclei were determined for each carcinoma . the information was obtained through the use of an image analysis system by tracing the nuclear profiles ( magnification 1000x ) as digitized on a video screen . the nuclear shape factor was defined as the degree of circularity of the nucleus , a perfect circle recorded as 1.0 . a nuclear shape factor greater than 0.84 was associated with poor outcome . multiple regression models showed that the single nuclear parameter of the shape factor was the most highly significant predictor of survival ( p less than 0.0001 ) . this variable remained highly significant even when corrected for sex , age , histologic grade , and dukes ' classification . these findings indicate that a nuclear shape factor greater than or equal to 0.84 as determined by nuclear morphometry is an independent morphometric nuclear variable of great importance in the prognosis of large bowel carcinoma . 
primary de novo adenocarcinoma of the colon measuring 8 mm in diameter with lymph node metastases . report of a case . colonic adenocarcinomas measuring less than 10 mm are rare . herein , we report a carcinoma measuring 8 mm in diameter associated with subserosal extension through a " locus minoris resistentiae " and metastases to lymph nodes , an association not previously reported . no residual adenomatous tissue was found , suggesting a de novo carcinoma . 
dysplasia and dna aneuploidy in a pelvic pouch . report of a case . a patient with an 18-year history of ulcerative colitis was operated on with colectomy , mucosal proctectomy , ileoanal anastomosis , and an s-type pelvic pouch due to intractable chronic continuous disease . the patient was followed by endoscopic controls and biopsy sampling from the pouch at regular intervals . a gradual development of severe atrophy in the ileal mucosa was followed by the development of low grade dysplasia . at the most recent endoscopic control , 4 years after the construction of the pouch , biopsies were sampled also for flow cytometric dna analyses . dna aneuploidy was detected in a biopsy from the center of the pouch , and a biopsy taken immediately adjacent showed low grade dysplasia . these findings underline the importance of endoscopic follow-up after construction of a pelvic pouch and focus attention to the potential of malignant transformation of the mucosa . 
development and characterization of a new , highly specific antibody to the human chorionic gonadotropin-beta fragment . in addition to high concentrations of hcg , pregnancy urine contains even higher concentrations of a fragment of the hcg beta-subunit . this biologically inactive material complicates immunological measurement of hcg , since it cross-reacts with many polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies to the hcg beta-subunit that are employed for assays of hcg in urine . although we and others have developed antibodies to this fragment , specific measurement of the fragment in the presence of free hcg beta has remained difficult due to intrinsic cross-reactivity of these antibodies with the intact hcg beta . rather than attempt to increase specificity by assay optimization , we developed a new , highly specific monoclonal antibody , designated b210 , which cross-reacts less than 0.1 % with the free hcg beta-subunit in both liquid and solid phase immunoassay formats . we have used this new monoclonal antibody in immunoradiometric assays to measure specifically the hcg beta fragment in urine throughout pregnancy as well as in the sera of two individuals with cancers producing the hcg beta-subunit . we discovered that the hcg beta fragment can bind three monoclonal antibodies simultaneously , indicating that although the epitope for antibody b210 is a new determinant exposed on the hcg beta fragment and not on intact hcg or on free hcg beta-subunit , the hcg beta fragment retains at least two other hcg beta-related epitopes intact , i.e. those that bind monoclonal antibodies b108 and b201 . 
calcium transport by plasma membranes from a glucose-responsive rat insulinoma . inside-out plasma membrane vesicles from a glucose-responsive rat insulinoma showed an atp - and mg2 ( + ) - dependent uptake of ca2 + . the km ( concentration giving half-maximal activity ) for ca2 + was 60 nm . in the presence of 0.4 microm free ca2 + , the km for atp was 15 microm , and the km for mg2 + was 4 microm . glucose ( 30 mm ) decreased ca2 + uptake by 50 % , while other insulin secretagogues had no effect , except for glyceraldehyde , which stimulated ca2 + uptake . calmodulin increased the uptake of ca2 + , while trifluoperazine and vanadate inhibited the uptake . the ca2 ( + ) - and mg2 ( + ) - dependent atpase from this tumor has a 10 - to 20-fold higher requirement for ca2 + , which suggests that this enzyme is not responsible for ca2 + transport , rather , ca2 + transport activity represents only a small fraction of the total ca2 ( + ) - atpase activity . the physiological importance of ca2 + transport in insulin secretion is evident from the inhibition of ca2 + uptake by glucose , which leads to a decrease in ca2 + efflux from the cell . this inhibition would lead to an increase in intracellular free ca2 + and insulin release . 
transcriptional regulation of ferritin messenger ribonucleic acid levels by insulin in cultured rat glioma cells . recent data have shown that ferritin , a ubiquitous protein , has a role as a regulator of cellular differentiation . in the present study we have investigated the expression of ferritin mrnas in cultured c6 cells , a rat glioma cell line , in response to insulin , which has an important role in cellular growth and differentiation . insulin stimulated steady state levels of both ferritin heavy chain and ferritin light chain mrnas . an increase in the level of ferritin heavy or light chain mrna was detected after 2 h of incubation with insulin , and a plateau was reached after 48 h for heavy chain mrna and after 72 h for light chain mrna . the responses were dose-dependent and were maximal at 100 nm for both mrnas . treatment of cells with actinomycin-d showed that insulin had no effect on the posttranscriptional stability of these mrnas . actinomycin-d inhibited insulin-induced accumulation of both mrnas , suggesting transcriptional stimulation of ferritin genes by insulin . a nuclear run-on assay showed that the insulin-induced increase in ferritin heavy chain mrna was due to an increase in the rate of gene transcription . we also demonstrated that insulin-like growth factor-i ( igf-i ) increased ferritin heavy and light chain mrna levels in a dose-dependent fashion , and that the maximum effect was obtained at a concentration of 10 nm on both mrna levels . igf-i was not only 10-fold more potent , but the absolute level of maximum stimulation was also about 2-fold greater than that for insulin . the combination of insulin ( 100 nm ) and igf-i ( 10 nm ) showed no additive effect . the results suggested that the ferritin heavy and light chain genes are transcriptionally regulated by insulin and influenced by igf-i . 
regulation of insulin , epidermal growth factor , and transforming growth factor-alpha levels by growth factor-degrading enzymes . the mechanisms by which growth factors are degraded and the role this process plays in the regulation of cell growth are not well understood . insulin degradation is believed to be mediated by a specific metalloprotease , insulin-degrading enzyme ( ide ) . we have previously shown that ide can also degrade transforming growth factor-alpha ( tgf alpha ) , but not epidermal growth factor ( egf ) , in vitro . this selectivity was surprising , since tgf alpha and egf are structurally similar and bind to the same receptor with comparable affinities . using a spectrum of protease inhibitors , we have now analyzed the degradation of tgf alpha , egf , and insulin by human hepatoma hepg2 cells . the results suggest that bacitracin-sensitive metalloproteases are involved in the degradation of tgf alpha and egf as well as insulin , and that the degradation of tgf alpha , but not egf , is mediated in part by ide . inhibiting the activity of these metalloproteases decreased growth factor depletion , suggesting that these enzymes play an important role in the control of extracellular growth factor levels . the existence of separate degradative pathways for egf and tgf alpha may explain how the two factors exert differential effects in some systems , and degradation of tgf alpha by ide would provide a possible mechanism for interaction between the insulin and tgf alpha/egf signalling systems . 
effects of hepatitis b virus , alcohol drinking , cigarette smoking and familial tendency on hepatocellular carcinoma . independent and interactive effects related to the development of hepatocellular carcinoma were assessed using a community-based case-control study for hepatitis b virus , habitual alcohol drinking , cigarette smoking , peanut consumption and history of hepatocellular carcinoma among the immediate family . all 200 male newly diagnosed hepatocellular carcinoma patients were recruited consecutively through the period of study as the case group from two teaching medical centers in northern and southern taiwan . healthy community residents matched one-to-one with cases on age , sex , ethnic group and residential area were selected as the control group . the carrier status of hbsag and hbeag was determined by blind radioimmunoassays , and other risk factors were obtained through standardized interviews according to a structured questionnaire . conditional logistic regression analysis showed a significant association between hepatocellular carcinoma and the carrier status of hbsag and hbeag with an odds ratio of 16.7 and 56.5 , respectively , for carriers of hbsag alone and for carriers of both hbsag and hbeag . there was a dose-response relationship between cigarette smoking and hepatocellular carcinoma with an odds ratio of 1.1 , 1.5 and 2.6 , respectively , for those who smoked 1 to 10 , 11 to 20 and more than 20 cigarettes a day . a significant association with hepatocellular carcinoma was also observed for the habitual alcohol consumer with an odds ratio of 3.4 . those whose immediate family had a history of hepatocellular carcinoma were more likely to have the disease develop , with an odds ratio of 4.6 . however , the frequency of peanut consumption was not significantly associated with hepatocellular carcinoma . 
transcatheter oily chemoembolization in the management of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma in cirrhosis : results of a western comparative study in 60 patients . transcatheter oily chemoembolization is widely used as palliative therapy for inoperable hepatocellular carcinoma in high-incidence asiatic areas . to assess its usefulness in the western form of this cancer , 30 french patients were treated between 1987 and 1990 by intraarterial hepatic injection of a lipiodol-doxorubicin emulsion followed by embolization with 0.5 to 1 mm gelatin sponge particles . the number of procedures ranged from one to five . all patients had advanced , symptomatic and inoperable hepatocellular carcinoma ( okuda 's staging : i , n = 8 ; ii , n = 14 ; iii , n = 8 ) ; none was found under systematic screening . all had underlying cirrhosis ( child-pugh 's class : a , n = 15 ; b , n = 12 ; c , n = 3 ) that was alcoholic in origin in 27 cases and posthepatitic b in origin in 3 cases . the results of the treatment were assessed by comparison with a group of 30 untreated patients admitted to the same unit between 1984 and 1987 . patients of both groups were closely matched for clinical presentation , global disease staging and precise anatomical extension . the overall 1 - and 2-yr survival rate was 59 % and 30 % , respectively , for the treated patients vs. 0 % at 1 yr for the untreated patients . the latter all died from local disease with end-stage liver failure and/or uncontrollable variceal bleeding . in the former , the three patients with child 's class c cirrhosis died after the first procedure . during the follow-up ( range = 3 to 26 mo ) , 11 additional patients died , 8 from metastatic generalization . 
usefulness of pulsed doppler ultrasound in detection of angiographically evident recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma after arterial embolization treatment . because hepatocellular carcinoma treated by transcatheter arterial embolization often regains its size , routine follow-up is necessary . the usefulness of pulsed doppler ultrasound for detection of this type of recurrence was compared with ultrasonography and computed tomography in 21 such hepatocellular carcinomas . of 15 hepatocellular carcinomas diagnosed by angiography as showing recurrence , four were detected with ultrasonography and five were detected with computed tomography . doppler signals were obtained in the peripheral portions corresponding to tumor vessels or stains on angiograms in 14 of these 15 hepatocellular carcinomas , but they were undetectable in six hepatocellular carcinomas with no recurrence . all signals disappeared after transcatheter arterial embolization . one false-negative hepatocellular carcinoma with pulsed doppler ultrasound showed faint tumor stains on angiograms ; these were also negative on ultrasonography and computed tomography . pulsed doppler ultrasound may be superior to ultrasonography and computed tomography as a routine procedure to detect the recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma treated by transcatheter arterial embolization . 
mucin production by human colonic carcinoma cells correlates with their metastatic potential in animal models of colon cancer metastasis . patients with mucinous colorectal cancers characteristically present with advanced disease , however , the relationship between mucin production by colon cancer cells and their metastatic potential remains unclear . we therefore sought to define the relationship between mucin production by human colon cancer cells and metastatic ability by employing animal models of colon cancer metastasis . ls lim 6 , a colon carcinoma cell line with high liver metastasizing ability during cecal growth in nude mice produced twofold more metabolically labeled intracellular mucin and secreted four - to fivefold more mucin into the culture medium compared to poorly metastatic parental line ls174t . this was accompanied by a similar elevation in poly ( a ) + rna detected by blot hybridization with a human intestinal mucin cdna probe , and increases in mucin core carbohydrate antigens determined immunohistochemically . variants of ls174t selected for high ( hm 7 ) or low ( lm 12 ) mucin synthesizing capacity also yielded metastases after cecal growth and colonized the liver after splenic-portal injection in proportion to their ability to produce mucin . inhibition of mucin glycosylation by the arylglycoside benzyl-alpha-n-acetyl-galactosamine greatly reduced liver colonization after splenic-portal injection of the tumor cells . these data suggest that mucin production by human colon cancer cells correlates with their metastatic potential and affects their ability to colonize the liver in experimental model systems . 
acquired cisplatin resistance in human ovarian cancer cells is associated with enhanced repair of cisplatin-dna lesions and reduced drug accumulation . studies were undertaken to investigate acquired resistance to cisplatin in human ovarian cancer cells . the cell lines a2780 and a2780/cp70 were studied to assess their respective characteristics of drug accumulation and efflux , cytosolic inactivation of drug , and dna repair . all experiments were performed using 1-h drug exposures . the a2780/cp70 cell line was 13-fold more resistant to cisplatin than a2780 cells . when studied at their respective ic50 doses , drug accumulation rates were similar for the two cell lines . however , the resistant cell line was twofold more efficient at effluxing drug , which was associated with reduced total drug accumulation for equivalent micromolar drug exposures . at equivalent levels of total cellular drug accumulation , the two cell lines formed the same levels of cisplatin-dna damage , suggesting that cytosolic inactivation of drug does not contribute to the differential in resistance between these cell lines . resistant cells were also twofold more efficient at repairing cisplatin-dna lesions in cellular dna and in transfected plasmid dna . we conclude that in these paired cell lines , alterations in drug uptake/efflux and in dna repair are the major contributing factors to acquired resistance to cisplatin . 
evidence that tumor necrosis factor plays a pathogenetic role in the paraneoplastic syndromes of cachexia , hypercalcemia , and leukocytosis in a human tumor in nude mice . recently , we have established a human squamous cell carcinoma of the maxilla ( called mh-85 ) associated with hypercalcemia , leukocytosis , and cachexia in culture . mh-85 tumor cells caused the same paraneoplastic syndromes in tumor-bearing nude mice . we found that there was a sixfold increase in splenic size in mh-85 tumor-bearing mice . this increase paralleled tumor growth and was reversed by surgical removal of the tumor . splenectomy in nude mice 1 wk before or 6 wk after tumor inoculation resulted in a decrease in tumor growth , and impairment of hypercalcemia , leukocytosis , and cachexia . in mh-85 tumor-bearing animals that had been pretreated by splenectomy , intravenous injection of fresh normal spleen cells caused an immediate reversal of leukocytosis , hypercalcemia , and cachexia . since the presence of cachexia in both the patient and the mice carrying the tumor suggested tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) may be overproduced , we injected polyclonal neutralizing antibodies raised against murine tnf into tumor-bearing mice . there was a rapid and reproducible decrease in blood ionized calcium , accompanied by suppression of osteoclast activity . no changes in blood ionized calcium were seen in mice injected with normal immune sera . in addition , there was an increase in body weight and decrease in white cell count . plasma immunoreactive tnf was increased almost fourfold in tumor-bearing nude mice compared with control nude mice . although tnf activity was undetectable in mh-85 culture supernatants , cells of the macrophage lineage , including spleen cells , released increased amounts of tnf when cultured with mh-85 tumor-conditioned media . these results suggest that splenic cytokines such as tnf may influence the development of the paraneoplastic syndromes of hypercalcemia , leukocytosis , and cachexia in these animals , as well as tumor growth . they also show that paraneoplastic syndromes may be due to factors produced by normal host cells stimulated by the presence of the tumor . 
biology of basal cell carcinoma ( part i ) . basal cell carcinoma is the most common malignancy in humans . although rarely metastatic , it is capable of significant local destruction and disfigurement . this two-part article reviews the current understanding of basal cell carcinoma biology . part i examines significant clinical , histologic , and ultrastructural features that relate to invasive potential . genetic characteristics , including tumor growth rate , chromosomal abnormalities , and oncogene presence , are discussed , and expression of important cell and matrix proteins , including keratin , fibronectin , and hla antigens , are reviewed . further topics to be explored in part ii include host immunologic responses , theories of pathogenesis , and valuable second-line therapeutic regimens for treatment of multiple cancers . 
the reliability of frozen sections in the evaluation of surgical margins for melanoma . as the width of surgical margins declines , histologic evaluation of the margins is needed to assess the completeness of excision of a malignant melanoma . we studied 221 specimens in 59 patients and compared the interpretations of frozen and paraffin sections from the same block . frozen sections had a sensitivity of 100 % in detecting melanoma when present and a specificity of 90 % . 
epidermotropic eccrine porocarcinoma . three cases of epidermotropic eccrine porocarcinoma are summarized and compared with reported cases . all patients had a long-standing tumor on a lower extremity that rapidly metastasized to the skin and proximal lymph nodes . the histologic picture was consistent with an intraepidermal eccrine sweat gland carcinoma . 
lobulated intradermal nevus . report of three cases . we report the cases of three patients with lobulated intradermal nevi . biopsy specimens showed similar findings , that is , fatty infiltration within nests of nevus cells , neuroid differentiation of nevus cells , and dermal fibrosis . our cases probably represent an unusual form of regressing melanocytic nevus . 
late metastases of cutaneous melanoma : case report and literature review . the development of delayed metastases , although rare , is well documented in patients with invasive cutaneous melanoma . only 24 cases , including ours , are clearly documented in the literature . we describe a 56-year-old woman who had an acral lentiginous melanoma of the right hand ( thickness 1.2 mm ) . thirteen years after excision and postoperative irradiation , a subcutaneous metastasis developed in the right arm . one year later the patient died with disseminated bone metastases . this case , as with most of those with delayed metastases , has typical features : female sex ; location at a site other than the back , arm , neck , or scalp ; and primary tumor thickness between 1.2 and 2.5 mm . 
multiple granular cell tumors associated with giant speckled lentiginous nevus and nevus flammeus in a child . we describe an 11-year-old girl in whom multiple cutaneous granular cell tumors were associated with a giant speckled lentiginous nevus and an extensive nevus flammeus . an association between granular cell tumors and pigmented skin lesions has been reported twice previously and supports a neural origin for these tumors . an abnormality of neural crest development is proposed to explain the coexistence of three uncommon and unusually extensive cutaneous disorders in this patient . this case may represent a further variant of phakomatosis pigmentovascularis . 
xeroderma pigmentosum lesions related to ultraviolet transmittance by clothes . xeroderma pigmentosum is associated with severe actinic degeneration of the skin . our patient with xeroderma pigmentosum showed increasing actinic damage in some areas covered by clothes . we therefore performed a complete evaluation of the patient 's exposure to ultraviolet radiation . this included transmission measurements of the patient 's clothes , glasses , and car windows . the transmission of uvb ( 280 to 320 nm ) by the clothes varied from none to 17.8 % . the transmitted uvb radiation was proportional to the clinical manifestations of xeroderma pigmentosum . the patient 's wardrobe was changed , and uva-blocking film was applied to the windows of the car and house . a decline in manifestations was seen after 18 months of improved ultraviolet protection . 
abnormal epidermal changes after argon laser treatment . a 26-year-old woman with a congenital port-wine stain on the forehead was treated three times at 2-month intervals with an argon laser . six months after the last treatment , moderate blanching and mild scaling confined to the treated area was observed . a biopsy specimen of the treated area revealed a significant decrease in ectatic vessels . however , epidermal changes similar to those of actinic keratosis with disorganized cell layers and marked cytologic abnormalities were seen . analysis of peripheral blood lymphocytes for a defect in dna repair was negative . multiple , argon laser-induced photothermal effects may be responsible for the changes observed in our case and may lead to premalignant epidermal transformation . 
unusual presentation of squamous cell carcinoma of the middle ear and mastoid . an unusual case of squamous cell carcinoma of the middle ear and mastoid in which syncope was a major presenting feature is reported . no such case has been reported in the literature . a possible explanation is offered . 
radiation-induced cranial nerve palsy : hypoglossal nerve and vocal cord palsies . cranial nerve palsies are an unexpected complication of radiotherapy for head and neck tumours . we present a case of this radiation-induced cranial palsy . an 18-year-old female with nasopharyngeal carcinoma developed a right hypoglossal nerve palsy 42 months after cancericidal doses of radiotherapy . in addition , she developed a bilateral vocal cord palsy 62 months after therapy . follow-up over four years has demonstrated no evidence of tumour recurrence and no sign of neurological improvement . 
massive metastasis from squamous carcinoma of the tonsil . squamous carcinomas of the oro-pharynx are associated with a high incidence of distant metastases at post-mortem . a case of a massive distant metastasis from a squamous cell carcinoma of the tonsil is presented . this occurred despite excellent local control . the pathology and the possible management implications are discussed . 
paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis : clinico-pathological correlations . three new cases of limbic encephalitis in association with malignancy are reported . the literature on this condition is reviewed and the clinical , laboratory and histopathological features of cases proven at necropsy are correlated . the possible pathogenic mechanism of this disorder is discussed . 
the history of nitrite in human nutrition : a contribution from german cookery books . in order to settle the question of when saltpetre ( nitrate ) came in use as an additive to human food , a number of historic cookery books from germany and austria were reviewed . obviously , the change from vegetable dyes to saltpetre for the coloring or color preservation , respectively , of meat occurred between 1600 and 1750 , probably near 1700 . the addition of sugar which favours the reduction of nitrate to the active agent nitrite became common practice during the 19th century . thus some historic parallels to the appearance of colorectal cancer , multiple sclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis in the medical literature became apparent . 
systematic computer-aided search of optimal staging system for colorectal cancer . two hundred and ninety-eight patients with curatively resected colorectal cancer were classified into 12 categories according to the depth of tumour penetration ( t1-t4 ) , and lymph node status ( n0-n2 ) . using a computer , these categories were grouped into 2-12 stages in every possible combination , so a total of 146,975 logical classifications were generated . the optimal model was selected for each group of classifications with equal stage number , thus giving the greatest prognostic information on 5-year survival according to the akaike criterion . the results showed that ( 1 ) 13 % of the total classifications , including 85 % of the 3-stage classifications , were better than the dukes system in predicting our patients ' outcomes ; ( 2 ) the t-level was a stage-determinant even more important than the n-level ; and ( 3 ) major changes in prognosis occurred at more advanced stages than the classical " turning points " . we conclude that in order to find an optimal staging of cancer , systematic computer-aided search through all the possible classifications is necessary , using the appropriate database . 
a cost-minimization study of cancer patients requiring a narcotic infusion in hospital and at home . we conducted a retrospective , non-randomized , cost-minimization study , from the perspective of the ministry of health , to compare the cost of managing cancer patients who required narcotic infusions , in hospital and at home . our medical costs averaged $ 369.72 per inpatient day and $ 150.24 per outpatient day ( saving $ 219.48 per diem , 1988 canadian dollars ) , while narcotic costs were the same for any given patient in both settings . sensitivity analysis showed that no reasonable changes in the quantity and cost of services reduced our savings by more than 50 % . during incremental analysis , savings increased as more outpatient days were managed by our centre , from $ 0.00 for 318 days , to more than $ 500,000 for over 2000 days per annum . as this program has been extremely cost effective and preferred by our patients , other hospitals and central funding agencies might consider establishing a regional outpatient narcotic infusion program to reduce their costs . 
usefulness of epidurally evoked cortical potential monitoring during cervicomedullary glioma surgery . this report describes a patient with an intramedullary ependymoma at the region of the cervicomedullary junction in whom there was an abolition of somatosensory evoked potentials following median nerve stimulation . during intraoperative monitoring of cortical potentials elicited by epidural cervical cord stimulation , the tumor was removed . posterior epidural stimulation appeared to depolarize more ascending fibers than did stimulation of a single peripheral nerve . we recommend that , in cases of operations in this vital area , epidurally evoked cortical potentials be monitored intraoperatively . 
the influence of drug interval on the effect of methotrexate and fluorouracil in the treatment of advanced colorectal cancer the importance of the interval between methotrexate ( mtx ) and fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) was studied in 168 patients with previously untreated , measurable , advanced colorectal cancer . they were randomized to receive mtx 200 mg/m2 , followed by 5-fu 600 mg/m2 either 24 hours ( arm a ) or 1 hour ( arm b ) after mtx . all patients received leucovorin ( lv ) 24 hours after mtx , 10 mg/m2 orally every 6 hours for six doses . the regimen was repeated every 2 weeks , with 5-fu escalation as tolerated . arm a was significantly better than arm b with respect to overall response rate ( 29 % v 14.5 % , p = .026 ) , time to progression ( ttp ; median , 9.9 months v 5.9 months , p = .009 ) , and survival ( median , 15.3 months v 11.4 months , p = .003 ) . significant differences between arms were not found in response rate , median ttp , or median survival for the subgroup of patients with rectal primaries who comprised 20 % of the patients in each arm . significant factors prognostic for survival were performance status and number of metastases , as well as treatment . age did not influence survival . toxicity was similar in both arms and was primarily gastrointestinal . more mucositis was seen in arm a. there were four toxic deaths secondary to neutropenia and infection ( one from arm a and three from arm b ) and three other deaths ( two from arm a and one from arm b ) that were possibly drug-related . the combination of mtx with lv rescue and 5-fu is an active regimen in advanced colorectal cancer ; its efficacy is increased in colon , but not rectal cancer , when the interval between mtx and 5-fu is long ( 24 hours ) rather than short ( 1 hour ) . 
clonogenic growth in vitro : an independent biologic prognostic factor in ovarian carcinoma a retrospective analysis was performed to investigate the prognostic value of growth in a human tumor clonogenic assay system for 84 ovarian cancer patients . a significant difference in survival probability ( determined by the method of kaplan-meier ) was found by univariate analysis between patients with ovarian carcinoma whose tumors manifested clonogenic growth ( defined as growth of greater than or equal to five colonies per plate ) and patients whose tumors did not grow . clonogenic growth in vitro was associated with worse prognosis ( p = .007 , log-rank test ) . a number of generally accepted prognostic factors , international federation of gynecology and obstetrics ( figo ) stage ( p = .003 ) , residual tumor mass ( p less than .001 ) , and grade ( p = .011 ) , were also of prognostic importance in our patient population . multivariate analysis , based on the cox regression model , identified clonogenic growth as a significant independent prognostic parameter in ovarian carcinoma ( p = .031 ) , in addition to the conventional risk factors . estimation of survival of individual patients was best accomplished by combining the factors of residual tumor mass ( p less than .05 ) , age ( p less than .01 ) , and clonogenic growth ( p less than .05 ) ( in sequence of decreasing potential of risk ) . 
second-line platinum therapy in patients with ovarian cancer previously treated with cisplatin . in an effort to critically define the incidence and clinical characteristics of secondary responses to cisplatin-based therapy in patients with ovarian cancer previously treated with a cisplatin-based program , a retrospective review was undertaken of patients at the memorial sloan-kettering cancer center who received greater than or equal to two cisplatin/carboplatin-based programs . eighty-two patients were identified who met the entry criteria of having had a cisplatin-free interval ( cfi ) of more than 4 months between the completion of their first regimen and the institution of a second cisplatin/carboplatin program . of the 72 assessable patients ( 10 had no measurable disease , and a laparotomy was not performed to assess response ) , 31 ( 43 % ) responded , including 10 surgically defined complete responses ( s-crs ) . the overall response rates ( and s-cr rate ) , based on duration of cfi , were 5 to 12 months , 27 % ( 5 % ) ; 13 to 24 months , 33 % ( 11 % ) ; and more than 24 months , 59 % ( 22 % ) . twenty-nine patients ( 35 % ) received noncisplatin/carboplatin-containing treatments between the cisplatin programs . patients without any treatment for more than 24 months from the completion of their initial therapy experienced a 77 % ( 17 of 22 ) response rate and a 32 % ( seven of 22 ) s-cr rate . in conclusion , secondary responses to cisplatin/carboplatin-based treatment are common in patients with ovarian cancer who have previously responded to the agents and increase in frequency with greater distance from the initial therapy . 
human growth hormone and insulin-like growth factor-1 enhance the proliferation of human leukemic blasts . as the number of long-term survivors of childhood leukemia increases , growth retardation has emerged as a significant complication . treatment of these children with growth hormone ( gh ) has been suggested and sporadically implemented . we , therefore , studied the effect of human gh ( hgh ) and its by-product insulin-like growth factor-1 ( igf-1 ) on the growth of leukemic cells in vitro . under serum-free conditions hgh and igf-1 induced a significant dose-dependent proliferative effect on promyelocytic leukemia ( hl60 ) and burkitt 's lymphoma ( daudi ) cell lines . anti-hgh antibodies negated the stimulatory effect of hgh and anti-igf-1 serum abrogated the growth-promoting effect enhanced by igf-1 . similar statistically significant stimulatory properties were found when freshly obtained marrow cells from four of five acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) of childhood and four acute myelogenous leukemia ( aml ) patients were studied in all and aml blast-cell clonogenic assays . all colonies increased numerically by 72 % ( p less than .025 ) and aml colonies by 92 % ( p less than .01 ) in the presence of hgh at concentrations of 2.5 x 10 ( 2 ) and 3.0 x 10 ( 2 ) ng/ml , respectively . igf-1 stimulated all and aml blast-colony growth at concentrations ranging from 0.05 to 0.5 ng/ml by up to 105 % ( p less than .025 ) and 65 % ( p less than .03 ) , respectively . our in vitro data suggest that circulating hgh and igf-1 may promote leukemic blast cell replication in vivo , and the supplemental administration of hgh to leukemia patients in remission must be carefully monitored for early relapse . 
abnormal growth patterns and adult short stature in 115 long-term survivors of childhood leukemia . significant growth retardation was found in 115 survivors of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) who had completed their growth . these children were diagnosed before 12 years of age and treated on four protocols in a single institution ; all received either cranial ( n = 78 ) or craniospinal ( n = 37 ) prophylactic irradiation . patients ' heights at diagnosis were within expected ranges , but final heights were greater than or equal to 1 sd below population means in 74 % of cases and greater than or equal to 2 sd in 37 % . effects on growth were more pronounced for children who had received craniospinal irradiation , but decrements were also significant in the cranial irradiation group , with adult heights greater than or equal to 2 sd below population norms in 32 % . growth retardation was significantly greater ( p less than .0001 ) in children who had earlier disease onset . growth deceleration occurred not only during chemotherapy but during a later period that followed an interval of improved growth in many cases . thus , late decrements in growth may be missed in studies that do not follow patients until they have attained final heights . these findings indicate that abnormally short stature among survivors of all merits further clinical and research attention . 
a phase i clinical trial of 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine in pediatric patients with acute leukemia . to evaluate its toxicity and clinical efficacy in children with relapsed or refractory leukemia , we performed a phase i trial of 2-chloro-2 ' - deoxy-adenosine ( 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine ; 2-cda ) given as a continuous 5-day infusion at doses of 3 to 10.7 mg/m2/d . in this study of 31 children with acute leukemia , the only dose-limiting toxicity was myelosuppression . at the highest dose level , three of seven patients developed fatal systemic bacterial or fungal infections . at dose levels above 6.2 mg/m2/d , significant oncolytic responses occurred in all patients . in addition , there was a significant correlation between both the responsiveness by cell type and dose of 2-cda , such that more oncolytic responses were noted in acute myeloid leukemia ( aml ) patients than acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) patients ( p = .02 ) . although this was a phase i trial in heavily pretreated patients with refractory disease , two aml patients treated at 5.2 and 10.7 mg/m2/d , respectively , had complete hematologic responses , and one patient treated at 10.7 mg/m2/d had a partial response . in addition , there was a dose-response relationship in all patients with improved cytoreduction of peripheral blast cells at higher doses of 2-cda . in vitro evaluation of 2-cda uptake and anabolism by leukemic blast cells from 22 patients demonstrated that 2-chloro-2 ' - deoxyadenosine ( cld-amp ) and 2-chloro-2 ' - deoxyadenosine 5 ' - striphosphate ( cldatp ) reached concentrations close to steady-state levels within 1 hour . intracellular nucleotide disappearance rates were high with half-lives of 1.29 and 2.47 hours for cldamp and cldatp , respectively . this suggests that continuous infusion is necessary to maintain the desired plasma concentration . the results of this study confirm the antileukemic activity of 2-cda and the lack of prohibitive nonhematologic toxicity . phase ii trials in patients with aml and all are warranted . 
treatment of relapsed non-hodgkin 's lymphomas with dexamethasone , high-dose cytarabine , and cisplatin before marrow transplantation . combination chemotherapy is capable of curing many patients with newly diagnosed intermediate - and high-grade non-hodgkin 's lymphomas ( nhl ) , but treatment of relapsed nhl remains problematic . bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) offers the best chance for disease-free survival , but interim chemotherapy is often necessary while awaiting bmt , especially for patients with bulky disease . we report here 39 patients ( median age , 44 years ) who failed primary therapy with doxorubicin-based regimens and subsequently were treated with one to six cycles of dexamethasone , 40 mg intravenous ( iv ) every day on days 1 to 4 , cisplatin 100 mg/m2 by continuous infusion on day 1 , and cytarabine 2 g/m2 iv every 12 hours x two doses on day 2 ( dhap ) before the planned bmt . histologies included 16 diffuse large-cell , six diffuse mixed , five diffuse small-cleaved , four lymphoblastic , and eight other . twenty-eight patients had stage iv disease , 13 had b symptoms , and 20 had an elevated lactate dehydrogenase ( ldh ) . patients had been treated with a median of three previous chemotherapy regimens . sixty-one percent of patients had high tumor burdens according to the md anderson criteria . objective responses to dhap were seen in 26 patients ( 67 % ) including nine complete responses ( crs ) ( 23 % ) and 17 partial responses ( prs ) ( 44 % ) , and responses lasted a median of 7.5 months . myelosuppression was the major toxicity , but there were no treatment-related deaths . to date , 17 patients have undergone subsequent bmt with a projected 3-year disease-free survival of 15 % . we conclude that the dhap regimen is effective short-term salvage therapy for relapsed nhl patients , but the long-term prognosis of multiply relapsed patients remains poor . 
second primary cancer following hodgkin 's disease : updated results of an italian multicentric study . the risk of second primary cancer ( spc ) was evaluated in 947 patients treated for hodgkin 's disease ( hd ) during the period january 1969 to december 1979 . the median follow-up of this series was 10.5 years ( range , 9 to 19 ) . treatment categories included radiotherapy ( rt ) alone ( 115 patients , 12 % ) , chemotherapy ( cht ) alone ( 161 patients , 17 % ) , combined rt plus cht ( 381 patients , 40 % ) , and salvage treatment for resistant or relapsing hd ( 290 patients , 30.6 % ) . fifty-six spcs were observed , occurring between 1 and 17 years from initial treatment . among these , secondary acute nonlymphoid leukemia ( s-anll ) was the most frequent spc ( 23 cases ) . secondary non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( s-nhl ) occurred in 5 patients , whereas a secondary solid tumor ( s-st ) was observed in 28 patients . the calculated actuarial risk ( + / - se ) of developing spc was 5.0 % ( + / - 0.9 % ) and 23.1 % ( + / - 5.8 % ) at 10 and 19 years , respectively . concerning treatment modalities and s-anll risk , no cases were observed in the radiotherapy group , whereas cht plus rt and salvage groups showed the highest actuarial risk . this was , in fact , at 10 and 19 years , 3.1 % ( + / - 0.9 % ) and 8.1 % ( + / - 4.0 % ) in the former group , and 1.8 % ( + / - 1.0 % ) and 16 % ( + / - 9.0 % ) in the latter . a statistically significant difference was observed when the cht plus rt group was compared with cht and rt groups ( p = .04 ) . concerning the relationships with chemotherapeutic regimens , 12 s-anll cases occurred in the mechlorethamine , vincristine , procarbazine , and prednisone ( mopp ) plus rt group , and only one case in the group receiving doxorubicin , bleomycin , vinblastine , and dacarbazine ( abvd ) plus rt . a statistically significant difference of s-anll actuarial risk was found comparing patients receiving mopp plus rt to all other treatment groups ( p = .04 ) . with respect to s-st , the actuarial risk at 10 and 19 years was 2.0 % ( + / - 0.6 % ) and 13.0 % ( + / - 3.8 % ) , respectively . no significant differences were found among groups treated with different modalities . these data were confirmed by a multivariate analysis , which indicated treatment modality and age as independent variables for s-anll and s-st development , respectively . based on the prolonged follow-up analysis , the actuarial spc risk at 10 years hereby reported should reflect the real spc incidence in our series . 
the pattern of intrathoracic hodgkin 's disease assessed by computed tomography . computed tomography ( ct ) was used to define the sites of intrathoracic abnormality in hodgkin 's disease , determine a pattern of progression of disease in the thorax , and establish the place of this pattern of spread in the differential diagnosis of thoracic abnormalities . one hundred eight patients with newly diagnosed hodgkin 's disease were studied by chest ct . seventy-seven patients had intrathoracic abnormalities . the pattern seen was one of contiguous spread from the anterior mediastinal/paratracheal area to the other mediastinal lymph node groups ( aortopulmonary , subcarinal , posterior mediastinal , and internal mammary ) , to the hila , and then into the lung by extension or as discrete nodules . involvement of the pleura , pericardium , or chest wall occurred only after the anterior mediastinal/paratracheal mass had enlarged to greater than 30 % of the thoracic diameter . the probability that this pattern of contiguous lymph node spread occurred by chance alone was very small . hodgkin 's disease spreads from the anterior mediastinal/paratracheal area in a contiguous manner . exceptions are unusual enough that when they occur , diagnoses other than hodgkin 's disease are more likely . 
multiple myeloma : vmcp/vbap alternating combination chemotherapy is not superior to melphalan and prednisone even in high-risk patients . the efficacy of alternating vincristine , melphalan ( m ) , cyclophosphamide , prednisone/vincristine , carmustine , doxorubicin , and prednisone ( vmcp/vbap ) polychemotherapy was compared with the m and prednisone ( mp ) regimen as induction treatment in multiple myeloma ( mm ) . three hundred four mm patients entered this study between march 1983 and july 1986 ; the analysis was performed in december 1989 . the treatment groups did not show significant differences with respect to major prognostic factors . median overall survival was 33.8 months . in the vmcp/vbap and mp arms , after 12 induction chemotherapy cycles , 59.0 % and 47.3 % ( p less than .068 ) of the patients achieved an m component reduction greater than 50 % . no significant difference was observed in the two treatment arms in terms of remission duration ( 21.3 v 19.6 months , p less than .66 ) and survival ( 31.6 v 37.0 months , p less than .28 ) . patients younger than 65 years did not show any advantage from the alternating polychemotherapy . at diagnosis , the plasma cell labeling index ( li ) and serum beta-2 microglobulin ( beta 2-m ) were evaluated in 173 and 183 patients , respectively . a significantly reduced survival was observed for patients with li greater than or equal to 2 % ( 16.4 months ) or beta 2-m greater than or equal to 6 mg/l ( 20.4 months ) . even in these poor-risk subgroups , vmcp/vbap was not superior to mp . 
concurrent cisplatin , infusional fluorouracil , and conventionally fractionated radiation therapy in head and neck cancer : dose-limiting mucosal toxicity . after a preliminary dose-finding study involving 12 patients with advanced or locally recurrent head and neck cancer , 27 patients were treated on a phase ii protocol , using fluorouracil 350 mg/m2/d by continuous intravenous ( iv ) infusion over 5 days , followed on the sixth day by a 2-hour iv infusion of cisplatin 50 mg/m2 , administered during the first and fourth weeks of radiation therapy to total doses between 60 and 64 gy , using 2 gy daily fractions . eight of these 27 patients had american joint committee on cancer staging ( ajcc ) stage iii disease , and 12 had stage iv disease . four had recurrent disease after surgery . three-year follow-up is now available . twenty-one ( 77.8 % ) remitted completely following treatment , and 11 remain free of local and regional relapse at 3 years . four have developed systemic metastases . following successful salvage treatment in two cases , estimated determinate survival at 3 years is 64 % . acute toxicity was manageable with this regime . eleven instances of grade 3 radiation therapy oncology group/european organization for research and treatment of cancer ( rtog/eortc ) mucositis were observed , which caused interruptions to radiotherapy in only four cases . no late sequelae have so far been recorded . it is concluded that the protocol described is tolerable but probably did not cause a greater number of locoregional " cures " than would have been expected following conventional radiotherapy alone in this group of patients . the use of infusional fluorouracil with concurrent conventionally fractionated radiation therapy and cisplatin infusion results in mucositis that limits the dose of fluorouracil to levels that are probably subtherapeutic . 
phase ii trial of piritrexim in metastatic melanoma using intermittent , low-dose administration . a phase ii trial of piritrexim ( 2,4-diamino-6 [ 2,5-dimethoxybenzyl ] -5 - methyl pyrido - [ 2,3 d ] pyrimidine , 301u74 ; ptx ) was conducted for patients with metastatic malignant melanoma using an intermittent , low-dose oral administration schedule . ptx was administered at a starting dose of 25 mg orally three times per day for 5 days weekly for 3 weeks followed by 1 week of rest . thirty-one patients were entered onto the study . among 31 patients assessable for response , there were two complete responses ( crs ) and five partial responses ( prs ) for a response rate ( cr plus pr ) of 23 % ( 95 % confidence limit , 10 % to 42 % ) . five responses occurred in soft tissue lesions , and two responses occurred in lung lesions . the initial dose schedule was well tolerated . the dose-limiting toxicity was myelosuppression . ptx administered in this schedule appears to be active against malignant melanoma . further clinical trials to confirm these results are underway . 
occurrence of hypercalcemia and leukocytosis with cachexia in a human squamous cell carcinoma of the maxilla in athymic nude mice : a novel experimental model of three concomitant paraneoplastic syndromes . hypercalcemia and leukocytosis may occur in conjunction as paraneoplastic syndromes associated with malignant disease . here we describe a human squamous cell carcinoma of the maxilla that was associated with hypercalcemia and leukocytosis , and also cachexia . the primary tumor was surgically removed and established in permanent cell culture . when either primary tumors or cultured tumor cells were inoculated into nude mice , the nude mice developed the same paraneoplastic syndromes as those which occurred in the patient from whom the tumor was originally derived . the plasma calcium was increased two and one-half-fold and the wbc count 30-fold , and the body weight was decreased by 45 % in tumor-bearing animals . each of these paraneoplastic syndromes was alleviated by surgical excision of the tumor , indicating that the paraneoplastic syndromes were due to a factor or factors produced by the primary tumor . the development of each of these paraneoplastic syndromes in nude mice correlated positively with the other two syndromes . we examined the organs of tumor-bearing mice and found striking histopathologic abnormalities in the bones , spleen , and liver , but no infiltration with tumor cells . the bones showed marked evidence of osteoclastic bone resorption . this model of a human tumor associated with the hypercalcemia-leukocytosis paraneoplastic syndrome , together with cachexia , should make it possible to determine the mechanisms responsible for these paraneoplastic syndromes and their relationship to each other . 
a phase i clinical , plasma , and cellular pharmacology study of gemcitabine . a novel deoxycytidine analog , gemcitabine ( 2 ' ,2 ' - difluorodeoxycytidine [ dfdc ] ) , has been studied in a phase i clinical and pharmacology trial . doses ranging from 10 to 1,000 mg/m2 were administered over 30 minutes weekly times 3 weeks every 4 weeks . the maximum-tolerated dose ( mtd ) was 790 mg/m2 . the dose-limiting toxicity was myelosuppression , with thrombocytopenia and anemia quantitatively more important than granulocytopenia . nonhematologic toxicity was minimal . two responses in patients with adenocarcinomas of the colon and lung were documented . the maximum dfdc plasma concentration , reached after 15 minutes of infusion , was proportional to the total dose administered . elimination , due mainly to deamination , was rapid ( terminal half-life [ t1/2 ] , 8.0 minutes ) and dose independent . the deamination product 2 ' ,2 ' - difluorodeoxyuridine ( dfdu ) was eliminated with biphasic kinetics characterized by a long terminal phase ( t1/2 , 14 hours ) ; it was the sole metabolite detected in urine . the concentration of dfdc 5 ' - triphosphate in circulating mononuclear cells increased in proportion to the dfdc dose at infusions between 35 and 250 mg/m2 . no further increment in dfdc 5 ' - triphosphate ( dfdctp ) was observed at higher doses , which resulted in plasma dfdc concentrations greater than 20 mumol/l ( 350 to 1,000 mg/m2 ) , suggesting saturation of dfdc 5 ' - phosphate accumulation . the recommended dose for phase ii clinical trials in solid tumors is 790 mg/m2/wk . 
bone metastases : pathophysiology and management policy . the pathophysiology and options for management of bone metastases as well as criteria for determining response to therapy are reviewed . bone metastases are frequently one of the first signs of disseminated disease in cancer patients . in the majority of patients , the primary tumor is in the breast , prostate , or lungs . although almost all patients will die of their disease , a proportion of the patients will survive for several years . treatment is primarily palliative : the intention is to relieve pain , prevent fractures , maintain activity and mobility , and , if possible , to prolong survival . therapeutic options include local treatment with radiotherapy and/or surgery , and systemic treatment using chemotherapy , endocrine therapy , radioisotopes , agents such as diphosphonates , which inhibit resorption of bone , as well as analgesic and antiinflammatory drugs . the mechanisms by which pain is relieved by several of these therapies remain unclear but actions beyond a simple tumoricidal effect appear to be important . there have been few randomized trials comparing the therapeutic options , and the criteria for assessing response to therapy have , in general , been poorly defined . there is a need for rigorous clinical investigations that assess the efficacy of the various therapeutic possibilities by using well-defined and validated criteria of response . 
interleukin-2 : prospects for lymphocyte-mediated destruction of pediatric malignancies . immunologic therapy of cancer was speculated on at the turn of the century . in animals , in vitro , and most recently in patients , irrefutable evidence has been obtained that lymphocyte responses can have a reproducible and beneficial antitumor effect . these results indicate that " biologic response modification " may truly become a fourth modality for cancer treatment , to be integrated into the standard approaches of radiation , chemotherapy , and surgery . to what extent these immune approaches may enable eradication of microscopic amounts of residual diseases in children who would otherwise have a recurrence of their malignancies remains the critical issue for testing over the next decade . enthusiasm regarding this approach is abundant , but critical evaluation of all clinical trials is essential to best focus these mechanisms into effective therapy . 
endometrial cancer : biochemical and clinical correlates . some endometrial cancers and endometrial adenocarcinoma cell lines show amplified expression of proto-oncogenes ( fos , fms , myc , myb , neu , and erb-b ) and augmented production of growth factors ( colony-stimulating factor 1 , epidermal growth factor , transforming growth factor-alpha , and transforming growth factor beta ) and epidermal growth factor receptor . oncogene expression , the presence of estrogen and progesterone receptors , and the fraction of cells in s phase are useful biochemical prognostic indicators of clinical outcome , and markers recognized by monoclonal antibodies are available for use in following the clinical course of the disease and responses to treatment . in vivo and in vitro studies on normal and neoplastic tissues are providing evidence of paracrine influences on epithelial cell proliferation . long-term administration of tamoxifen as adjuvant therapy for breast cancer has recently been found to increase the risk for development of endometrial cancer . 
radiotherapy alone versus combined chemotherapy and radiotherapy in nonresectable non-small-cell lung cancer : first analysis of a randomized trial in 353 patients . we report the results observed in a large , randomized study that compared the effects of radiotherapy alone ( the standard therapy ) with those of a combination of radiotherapy and chemotherapy in nonresectable squamous cell and large-cell lung carcinoma . the radiation dose was 65 gy in each group , and chemotherapy included vindesine , cyclophosphamide , cisplatin , and lomustine . in this study , 177 patients received radiotherapy alone ( group a ) , and 176 patients received the combined treatment ( group b ) . the 2-year survival rate was 14 % in group a and 21 % in group b ( p = .08 ) . the distant metastasis rate was significantly lower in group b ( p less than .001 ) . local control was poor in both groups ( 17 % and 15 % , respectively ) and remained the major problem . 
alternating hepatic intra-arterial floxuridine and fluorouracil : a less toxic regimen for treatment of liver metastases from colorectal cancer . hepatic intra-arterial ( hia ) infusion of floxuridine ( fudr ) via an implanted pump has shown promise in the treatment of colorectal cancer metastasized to the liver . however , the potential benefit of this therapy may be offset by the high incidence of treatment-limiting biliary toxicity . although weekly hia bolus of fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) is effective against metastatic colorectal cancer to the liver with no biliary toxicity , it is limited by systemic side effects . in december 1986 , we began a phase ii trial of alternating hia fudr and 5-fu via the implanted pump in an attempt to extend the duration of treatment by obviating the limiting biliary ( fudr ) and systemic ( 5-fu ) drug toxic effects . patients received continuous hia fudr at 0.1 mg/kg of body weight per day on days 1 through 8 followed by an hia bolus of 5-fu at 15 mg/kg given via the pump sideport on days 15 , 22 , and 29 , with the cycle repeated every 35 days . sixty-eight patients were enrolled in this trial , and 64 were fully evaluable . of the 64 patients , 30 ( 47 % ) previously had received chemotherapy . major response ( complete response plus partial response ) was observed in 32 ( 50 % ) of 64 patients , and the median survival from pump implantation in all patients was 22.4 months . in contrast to the experience with the single-agent hia fudr regimen , no patient had treatment terminated because of drug toxicity . alternating hia fudr and 5-fu has efficacy similar to that of hia fudr given alone , but when closely monitored and adjusted appropriately , is not associated with toxic effects requiring treatment termination . 
cancer registry problems in classifying invasive bladder cancer . a slide review of diagnostic pathologic tissue obtained from 364 bladder cancer cases , identified through the iowa surveillance , epidemiology , and end results ( seer ) program in 1983 , classified 97 ( 26.6 % ) of these cases as invasive bladder cancers . these findings contrasted sharply with the iowa seer program classification that coded 289 ( 79.4 % ) of these cases as invasive bladder cancers . these results were validated further by the hazard ratio of 4.54 ( 95 % confidence interval , 2.57 to 8.03 ) among invasive relative to noninvasive bladder cancer cases when the slide review findings were used . in contrast , the hazard ratio was only 1.70 ( 95 % confidence interval , 0.76 to 3.79 ) when the iowa seer program findings were used . the traditional method used by the national cancer institute 's seer program to deal with this problem is described and its implications are discussed . 
preferential localization of human adherent lymphokine-activated killer cells in tumor microcirculation . the efficacy of adoptive immunotherapy for solid tumors with lymphokine-activated effector cells presumably depends on the ability of these cells to localize adequately in tumor tissues . we present here the first quantitative study of the in vivo movement of fluorescently labeled adherent lymphokine-activated killer ( a-lak ) cells . these cells were injected intra-arterially along with low-dose interleukin-2 into normal ( mature granulation ) tissue and an implant of vx2 carcinoma grown in the rabbit ear chamber . a small proportion of a-lak cells accumulated preferentially in the tumor microcirculation in vivo because of an increased frequency of long-term adhesive interactions with the tumor vasculature . stasis of blood flow in the tumor vasculature was observed 1 to 2 days after injection . subsequent necrosis of the tumors was observed , along with diffuse infiltrates of lymphocytes , monocytes , and granulocytes in the interstitial space within the tumor . development of necrosis despite low ratios of effector cells to target cells suggests that in addition to direct cytotoxicity , the response to adoptive immunotherapy is mediated via the tumor vasculature . this novel mechanism for adoptive immunotherapy must be taken into account in the development of improved strategies for cancer treatment . 
mortality among workers at oak ridge national laboratory . evidence of radiation effects in follow-up through 1984 [ published erratum appears in jama 1991 aug 7 ; 266 ( 5 ) :657 ] white men hired at the oak ridge ( tenn ) national laboratory between 1943 and 1972 were followed up for vital status through 1984 ( n = 8318 , 1524 deaths ) . relatively low mortality compared with that in us white men was observed for most causes of death , but leukemia mortality was elevated in the total cohort ( 63 % higher , 28 deaths ) and in workers who had at some time been monitored for internal radionuclide contamination ( 123 % higher , 16 deaths ) . median cumulative dose of external penetrating radiation was 1.4 msv ; 638 workers had cumulative doses above 50 msv ( 5 rem ) . after accounting for age , birth cohort , a measure of socioeconomic status , and active worker status , external radiation with a 20-year exposure lag was related to all causes of death ( 2.68 % increase per 10 msv ) primarily due to an association with cancer mortality ( 4.94 % per 10 msv ) . studies of this population through 1977 did not find radiation-cancer mortality associations , and identical analyses using the shorter follow-up showed that associations with radiation did not appear until after 1977 . the radiation-cancer dose response is 10 times higher than estimates from the follow-up of survivors of the bombings of hiroshima and nagasaki , japan , but similar to one previous occupational study . dose-response estimates are subject to uncertainties due to potential problems , including measurement of radiation doses and cancer outcomes . longer-term follow-up of this and other populations with good measurement of protracted low-level exposures will be critical to evaluating the generalizability of the results reported herein . 
cancer in populations living near nuclear facilities . a survey of mortality nationwide and incidence in two states . reports from the united kingdom have described increases in leukemia and lymphoma among young persons living near certain nuclear installations . because of concerns raised by these reports , a mortality survey was conducted in populations living near nuclear facilities in the united states . all facilities began service before 1982 . over 900,000 cancer deaths occurred from 1950 through 1984 in 107 counties with or near nuclear installations . each study county was matched for comparison to three " control counties " in the same region . there were 1.8 million cancer deaths in the 292 control counties during the 35 years studied . deaths due to leukemia or other cancers were not more frequent in the study counties than in the control counties . for childhood leukemia mortality , the relative risk comparing the study counties with their controls before plant start-up was 1.08 , while after start-up it was 1.03 . for leukemia mortality at all ages , the relative risks were 1.02 before start-up and 0.98 after . for counties in two states , cancer incidence data were also available . for one facility , the standardized registration ratio for childhood leukemia was increased significantly after start-up . however , the increase also antedated the operation of this facility . the study is limited by the correlational approach and the large size of the geographic areas ( counties ) used . it does not prove the absence of any effect . if , however , any excess cancer risk was present in us counties with nuclear facilities , it was too small to be detected with the methods employed . 
esophageal ultrasound and the preoperative staging of carcinoma of the esophagus . esophageal ultrasound allows the esophageal wall to be viewed as five discrete layers . lymph nodes are easily identified , and their size , shape , margin , and internal structure can be assessed . this provides an alternative method of preoperative ( clinical ) evaluation of the primary tumor [ t ] and the regional lymph nodes [ n ] of patients with carcinoma of the esophagus . esophageal ultrasound was attempted in the clinical staging of 28 patients with carcinoma of the esophagus . six patients ( 21 % ) were not assessed because of the inability to pass the esophageal ultrasound probe through the malignant stricture . the staging system for carcinoma of the esophagus developed by the international union against cancer and the american joint committee on cancer was used . twenty-two patients had the true t determined by pathologic review of the resected esophagus . esophageal ultrasound correctly identified t in 13 patients ( 59 % accuracy ) . in four patients ( 18 % ) the disease was overstaged by esophageal ultrasound ; all these patients had early t1 tumors confined to the submucosa . in five patients ( 23 % ) the disease was understaged by esophageal ultrasound ; all of these patients had advanced tumors ( four t3 and one t4 ) that invaded beyond the esophageal wall . seven of the nine incorrect esophageal ultrasound determinations were called t2 ( three t1 , three t3 , one t4 ) , which suggests that the borders of the muscularis propria require careful attention when evaluated by esophageal ultrasound . twenty patients had the true n determined by pathologic review of the resected specimen . esophageal ultrasound correctly identified n in 14 patients ( 70 % accuracy ) . three patients were falsely identified as having n1 disease and three were falsely identified as having n0 disease . the sensitivity , specificity , positive predictive value , and negative predictive value for n assessment by esophageal ultrasound were 70 % . esophageal ultrasound provides an alternative method of visualization of the esophageal wall and regional lymph nodes . our early experience shows promise for esophageal ultrasound in the clinical staging of carcinoma of the esophagus . 
use of immunoglobulin gene rearrangements to show clonal lymphoproliferation in hyper-reactive malarial splenomegaly in africa , hyper-reactive malarial splenomegaly ( hms ) , which is also known as tropical splenomegaly syndrome , can be associated with a prominent lymphocytosis in blood and bone marrow that is difficult to distinguish clinically from chronic lymphocytic leukaemia ( cll ) . the observation that some patients with hms become resistant to treatment with anti-malarial drugs has led to the suggestion that hms may evolve into a malignant lymphoproliferative disorder . to test this hypothesis , 22 ghanaian patients with hms and/or lymphocytosis were categorised by degree of response to proguanil according to standard clinical criteria , and dna was extracted from peripheral blood cells and screened for rearrangements of the jh region of the immunoglobulin gene with a dna probe . clonal rearrangements of the jh region were found in all 3 patients with no response , in none of 13 patients with sustained response , and in 2 of 6 patients with moderate response or relapse on proguanil therapy . the detection of such rearrangements , and hence clonal lymphoproliferation in individuals with clinical features intermediate between hms and cll , supports the hypothesis that hms may evolve into a malignant lymphoproliferative disorder . 
muscle fibre type and habitual snoring . although anatomical abnormalities of the upper airway have been recorded in some patients with obstructive sleep apnoea ( osa ) , a muscle tone dysregulation also seems to have an important role in this disorder . since habitual snoring is the initial stage of osa , the structural characteristics of upper airway muscles ( medium pharyngeal constrictor muscle [ mpcm ] ) from 13 men ( 9 non-snorers and 4 habitual snorers ) were studied . mpcm fibre structure in non-snorers was broadly similar to that in normal limb muscles , with the exception that fibre diameters were smaller for all fibre types . compared with limb muscles , mpcm had a smaller proportion of type iib fibres and a higher proportion of types i and iia fibres . mpcm in habitual snorers had an abnormal distribution of fibre types ( low percentage of type i and type iib fibres and high percentage of type iia fibres ) compared with non-snorers ( p less than 0.001 ) and the type iia fibres were hypertrophic . no myopathic or neurogenic changes were seen . two possible hypotheses explain the abnormal distribution of fibre types in snorers . first , a constitutionally determined reduction of slow alpha-motor neurons induces an adaptive transformation of type iib to type iia fibres and a hypertrophy of type iia fibres ; or , second , motor neurons change their patterns of discharge and , hence , of activation , and modify fibre-type distribution of mpcm as an adaptation to the anatomical characteristic of upper airway and habitual snoring . 
lack of effect of pregnancy on outcome of melanoma . for the world health organisation melanoma programme to determine the effect of pregnancy on prognosis in melanoma we investigated 388 women treated for stage 1 primary cutaneous disease during their childbearing years . 85 women had been treated before any pregnancy , 92 during pregnancy , 143 after they had completed all pregnancies , and 68 between pregnancies . women who had received treatment while pregnant had primary tumours of significantly greater thickness than did those in the other three groups ( p = 0.002 ) . other possible confounding factors ( site , age , parity ) did not differ between the groups . once tumour thickness was controlled for , survival rate of women in whom melanoma was diagnosed and treated while they were pregnant did not differ from that in the other three groups . cox regression analysis showed no differences between the three groups of women who were not pregnant at diagnosis . women with melanoma should be advised about pregnancy on the basis of thickness and site of tumour and evidence of vascular spread , and not hormonal status . 
prognostic factors in craniofacial surgery . from 1979 to 1989 , 21 patients underwent craniofacial resection for malignancies involving the anterior skull base . histologic types included 8 squamous cell carcinomas , 3 chondrosarcomas , 2 melanomas , 2 basal cell carcinomas , 2 adenocarcinomas , 2 poorly differentiated carcinomas , 1 malignant schwannoma , and 1 malignant hemangiopericytoma . survival was 57 % , with follow-up of 41 months . a 50 % complication rate included osteomyelitis , cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea , meningitis , brain abscess , epidural abscess , and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone . recurrent disease occurred in 9 patients ( 41 % ) , the most reliable predictor being dural invasion indicated preoperatively by ct scan or at operation . patients demonstrating dural involvement ( n = 9 ) had a 22 % survival rate , while patients without ( n = 12 ) had a survival rate of 83 % . the impact of dural invasion on long-term survival is emphasized . though complications were frequent , long-term results were favorable . 
the internal oblique-iliac crest free flap in composite defects of the oral cavity involving bone , skin , and mucosa . the reconstruction of oromandibular defects following ablative surgery is a challenging undertaking . when the defect involves skin as well as mucosa , the challenge becomes even greater . the internal oblique iliac crest osteomyocutaneous free flap is particularly useful for reconstruction of through-and-through composite defects due to the inclusion of two separate soft-tissue flaps on the same vascular pedicle . we report our experience with this flap in the reconstruction of 10 patients with such defects . the utility , and the limitations of this form of reconstruction are discussed in detail . 
detection of epstein-barr virus dna in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue of nasopharyngeal carcinoma using polymerase chain reaction and in situ hybridization . the polymerase chain reaction method for amplification of dna in formalin-fixed , paraffin-embedded tissue sections was used to detect epstein-barr virus dna in nasopharyngeal carcinomas from japanese patients . thirty-one cases of nasopharyngeal carcinoma and 8 cases of lymph node metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma were studied . detection rates of epstein-barr virus in various types of nasopharyngeal carcinoma according to the world health organization classification were as follows : 10 of 10 undifferentiated carcinomas , 8 of 13 nonkeratinizing carcinomas , and 5 of 7 keratinizing carcinomas . eight lymph node metastases , for which the primary was positive for epstein-barr virus , also contained epstein-barr virus dna . by in situ hybridization using a biotinylated epstein-barr virus probe , it was clearly demonstrated that epstein-barr virus dna was localized in the nuclei of the neoplastic cells . the clinical features of nasopharyngeal carcinoma with or without epstein-barr virus were not different . these results demonstrate that nasopharyngeal carcinoma in japanese patients is closely associated with epstein-barr virus infection , similar to nasopharyngeal carcinoma of other endemic and nonendemic areas . 
paraneoplastic vasculitic neuropathy : a treatable neuropathy . paraneoplastic vasculitic neuropathy has been recently described . we report the first case of this disorder which responded both clinically and electrophysiologically to cyclophosphamide treatment . a 54-year-old woman with a history of metastatic endometrial carcinoma in remission had asymmetrical polyneuropathy , electrophysiological findings consistent with a diffuse axonal neuropathy , high sedimentation rate and spinal fluid protein , and microvasculitis with axonal degeneration on nerve biopsy . the patient was treated with 150 mg of cyclophosphamide daily with gradual clinical and electrophysiological improvement . 
activation of epstein-barr virus latent genes protects human b cells from death by apoptosis . epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) , a human herpesvirus , establishes a persistent asymptomatic infection of the circulating b-lymphocyte pool . the mechanism of virus persistence is not understood but , given the limited lifespan of most b cells in vivo , it seems most likely that ebv-infected cells must gain access to the long-lived memory b-cell pool . here we show in an in vitro system that ebv , through expression of the full set of eight virus-coded ' latent ' proteins , can protect human b cells from programmed cell death ( apoptosis ) , the deletion mechanism which normally restricts entry into memory . we have found that ebv-positive burkitt 's lymphoma ( bl ) cell clones retaining the original tumour cell phenotype and expressing only one of the virus latent proteins , the nuclear antigen ebna 1 , are extremely sensitive to apoptosis ; in this respect they resemble the tumour 's normal cell of origin found in the germinal centres of lymphoid tissue . by contrast , isogenic bl cell clones which have activated expression of all eight ebv latent proteins are resistant to the induction of apoptosis . the ebv latent proteins should therefore be seen not just as activators of b-cell proliferation but , perhaps more importantly , as mediators of enhanced b-cell survival . 
location of port-wine stains and the likelihood of ophthalmic and/or central nervous system complications . of 310 patients with port-wine stains , 68 % had more than one dermatome involved ; 85 % had unilateral and 15 % had a bilateral distribution of their port-wine stain . at the time of examination , 8 % of all patients with trigeminal port-wine stains had evidence of eye and/or central nervous system ( cns ) involvement . extensive involvement , with port-wine stain over the trunk and extremities as well as the head and neck , was observed in 12 % . patients who did not have port-wine stains on the areas served by branches v1 and v2 of the trigeminal nerve had no signs or symptoms of eye and/or cns involvement . port-wine stains of the eyelids , bilateral distribution of the birthmark , and unilateral port-wine stains involving all three branches of the trigeminal nerve were associated with a significantly higher likelihood of having eye and/or cns complications . twenty-four percent of those with bilateral trigeminal nerve port-wine stains had eye and/or cns involvement compared with 6 % of those with unilateral lesions . all those who had eye and/or cns complications had port-wine stain involvement of the eyelids ; in 91 % both upper and lower eyelids were involved , whereas in 9 % only the lower eyelid was involved . none of those with upper eyelid port-wine stains alone had eye and/or cns complications . in addition , 3 ( 75 % ) of the 4 subjects with seizures alone had bilateral port-wine stain involvement . a third group , these with unilateral v1 , v2 , and v3 port-wine stains , had eye and/or cns complications in 3 ( 19 % ) of 16 subjects . 
the nursing role in limb salvage surgery . limb salvage surgery has proven itself as a valuable option for sarcoma patients . the reconstruction options are vast and include metallic implants , allografts , and a combination of both . the nursing implications for these patients are unlimited . the patient needs to be educated and assessed closely for complications such as infections , nonunion of the allograft , and limited mobility . although the nursing care is more complicated , the rewards with working with these patients are great . 
what to do when an x-ray film suggests lung cancer . the chest film is one of the most common methods of detecting lung cancer , which often appears as solitary nodules or hilar masses . once the diagnosis is established , the most effective treatment can be determined and staging of the tumor can be done . surgical resection is the only cure for non-small-cell carcinoma , although radiotherapy and chemotherapy may shrink some tumors . because 90 % of all cases are caused by smoking , a preventive approach to the disease is crucial . screening of high-risk patients ( ie , smokers with airflow obstruction ) using chest films and sputum cytology may aid this approach . 
why patients delay seeking care for cancer symptoms . what you can do about it . patient delay in seeking care for cancer symptoms is common and well documented by research studies . fear and denial , lack of information about cancer , and financial considerations all contribute to this delay . patient education may be an important factor in decreasing the length of delay and thereby improving treatment outcome . by making good use of opportunities for patient education , primary care physicians may positively influence the prognosis of several types of cancer , particularly breast cancer and malignant melanoma of the skin . 
effects of epidermal growth factor and analogues of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone and somatostatin on phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of tyrosine residues of specific protein substrates in various tumors . analogues of somatostatin ( ss ) and luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone ( lh-rh ) activate tyrosine phosphatases in mia paca-2 human pancreatic cancer cell line membranes and inhibit growth . we compared the substrates phosphorylated by epidermal growth factor ( egf ) to those dephosphorylated by the ss analogue rc-160 ( d-phe-cys-tyr-d-trp-lys-val-cys-trp-nh2 ) and [ d-trp6 ] lh-rh in cancer cell lines such as mia paca-2 ( human pancreatic cancer ) , hcpc ( hamster cheek pouch carcinoma ) , a-549 ( human lung cancer ) , ht-29 ( human colon cancer ) , and r3230ac ( breast cancer ) . egf phosphorylated proteins of 170 , 65 , and 60 kda and analogues of ss and lh-rh promoted the dephosphorylation of these proteins in mia paca-2 and hcpc cell lines . the egf receptor is 170 kda . pp60src ( 60 kda ) is known to be a substrate for egf receptor . the lh-rh receptor is also 60 kda . the effects of rc-160 and [ d-trp6 ] lh-rh were quantitatively different . examinations of ht-29 , a-549 , and r3230ac cancer cell lines revealed no phosphorylation by egf or dephosphorylation by rc-160 and [ d-trp6 ] lh-rh . in addition to the 170 - , 65 - , and 60-kda proteins , 35-kda proteins were also phosphorylated in some cancer cell lines . this work demonstrates that analogues of ss and lh-rh can reverse the effects of egf biochemically as well as functionally . 
characteristics of erythroleukemia cells selected for vincristine resistance that have accelerated inducer-mediated differentiation . the induction of murine erythroleukemia cells ( melc ; ds19/sc9 ) to terminal differentiation by hexamethylenebisacetamide ( hmba ) is characterized by a latent period of 10-12 hr before onset of commitment to terminal-cell division and increased transcription of globin genes . melc variants , derived from this parental cell line , selected for resistance to vincristine ( vc ) , can be induced to differentiate with little or no latent period . this study shows that accelerated hmba-induced commitment is characteristic of melc with a low level ( 2 - to 5-fold ) of vc resistance in four independently derived cell lines . both resistance to vc and accelerated differentiation are stable phenotypes for at least 50 passages ( approximately 5 months ) in the absence of vc . low-level vc-resistant melc do not display increased levels of p-glycoprotein or mdr1 , mdr2 , and mdr3 mrnas , nor do they exhibit cross-resistance to colchicine or doxorubicin . these cells do show ( i ) increased level of protein kinase c activity , ( ii ) reduced accumulation of [ 3h ] vc , and ( iii ) restoration of vc sensitivity in the presence of verapamil . melc selected for higher levels of vc resistance ( approximately 500-fold ) do express high levels of p-glycoprotein and the mdr3 gene . during hmba-induced differentiation , ds19/sc9 decrease [ 3h ] vc accumulation , but p-glycoprotein content does not change . a vc-transport-associated protein , also critical for the process of induced differentiation , may be constitutively present in vc-resistant melc , accounting for their enhanced sensitivity to inducer . this protein accumulates by exposure of vc-sensitive cells to hmba , contributing to their differentiation and decreased level of vc accumulation . 
effects of site-directed mutagenesis at residues cysteine-31 and cysteine-184 on lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase activity . native lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase ( lcat ; phosphatidylcholine-sterol acyltransferase ; phosphatidylcholine : sterol o-acyltransferase , ec 2.3.1.43 ) protein , and lcat in which either or both of the enzyme free cysteines had been replaced with glycine residues by site-directed mutagenesis , has been expressed in cultured chinese hamster ovary cells stably transfected with the human lcat gene . the mass of lcat secreted , determined by immunoassay , did not differ in the native and mutant species . lcat specific activity was also unchanged in the mutant species . in particular , the cysteine-free double mutant , in which cys-31 and cys-184 had both been replaced , was fully active in the synthesis of cholesteryl esters . this result is not consistent with a catalytic role for lcat free cysteine residues . the classical inhibitor of lcat activity , 5,5 ' - dithiobis ( 2-nitrobenzoic acid ) ( dtnb ) , which strongly ( 89 % ) inhibited the native enzyme , had partial ( 45 % ) inhibitory activity with mutant enzyme species containing a single - sh residue , while the double mutant was not significantly inhibited by dtnb . these data are interpreted to suggest that cys-31 and cys-184 are vicinal both to each other and to the " interfacial binding site " at residues 177-182 , and that dtnb exerts its effect by steric inhibition . 
transfection of c6 glioma cells with connexin 43 cdna : analysis of expression , intercellular coupling , and cell proliferation . c6 glioma cells express low levels of the gap junction protein connexin 43 and its mrna and display very weak dye coupling . when implanted into the rat cerebrum , these cells quickly give rise to a large glioma . to investigate the role of gap junctions in the tumor characteristics of these cells , we have used lipofectin-mediated transfection to introduce a full-length cdna encoding connexin 43 . several transfected clones were obtained that exhibited various amounts of connexin 43 mrna transcribed from the inserted cdna . immunocytochemical analysis revealed an increase in the amount of connexin 43 immunoreactivity in the transfected cells , being localized at areas of intercellular contact as well as in the cytoplasm . the level of dye coupling was also assessed and found to correlate with the amount of connexin 43 mrna . when cell proliferation was followed over several days , cells expressing the transfected cdna grew more slowly than non-transfected cells . these transfected cells will be useful in examining the role of gap junctions in tumorigenesis . 
translocation breakpoint of acute promyelocytic leukemia lies within the retinoic acid receptor alpha locus . acute promyelocytic leukemias ( apls ) are characterized by a reciprocal balanced translocation that involves chromosomes 15 and 17 [ t ( 15 ; 17 ) ] . we report the isolation and characterization of one of the two reciprocal break sites and demonstrate that the chromosome 17 breakpoint lies within the retinoic acid receptor alpha locus . nucleotide sequencing of the 15 ; 17 cross-over junction on 15q + showed that the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene is truncated within its first intron , 370 base pairs upstream from the splicing donor site of exon ii . such a recombination would be expected to generate abnormal rar alpha mrna and protein . southern blot analysis of a number of apls with chromosome 15 - and 17-derived dna probes revealed similar 15 ; 17 recombinations in the majority of other apls . our data are strong evidence that the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene plays a crucial role in the leukemogenesis of apl . 
differentiation of hl-60 leukemia by type i regulatory subunit antisense oligodeoxynucleotide of camp-dependent protein kinase . a marked decrease in the type i camp-dependent protein kinase regulatory subunit ( ri alpha ) and an increase in the type ii protein kinase regulatory subunit ( rii beta ) correlate with growth inhibition and differentiation induced in a variety of types of human cancer cells , in vitro and in vivo , by site-selective camp analogs . to directly determine whether ri alpha is a growth-inducing protein essential for neoplastic cell growth , human hl-60 promyelocytic leukemia cells were exposed to 21-mer ri alpha antisense oligodeoxynucleotide , and the effects on cell replication and differentiation were examined . the ri alpha antisense oligomer brought about growth inhibition and monocytic differentiation , bypassing the effects of an exogenous camp analog . these effects of ri alpha antisense oligodeoxynucleotide correlated with a decrease in ri alpha receptor and an increase in rii beta receptor level . the growth inhibition and differentiation were abolished , however , when these cells were exposed simultaneously to both ri alpha and rii beta antisense oligodeoxynucleotides . the rii beta antisense oligodeoxynucleotide alone has been previously shown to specifically block the differentiation inducible by camp analogs . these results provide direct evidence that ri alpha camp receptor plays a critical role in neoplastic cell growth and that camp receptor isoforms display specific roles in camp regulation of cell growth and differentiation . 
computed tomography and the tnm classification of lung cancer . computed tomography ( ct ) of the thorax and upper abdomen was prospectively evaluated in 84 patients with potentially operable lung cancer . invasion into the thoracic wall and the mediastinal structures was not accurately demonstrated by ct . for metastatic mediastinal lymph nodes , the sensitivity and specificity of ct were , respectively , 86 % and 61 % and the positive and negative predictive indices 49 % and 91 % . for t1 , t2 and t3 tumours the negative indices were 100 % , 96 % and 71 % . positive predictive index did not differ between squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma . adrenal metastases were ct-suspected in 17 cases and liver metastases in eight , but were verified by ultrasonography in only one and four cases . ct should be used in preoperative investigation of lung cancer , irrespective of stage . demonstration of thoracic-wall or mediastinal invasion need not exclude tumour resection . preoperative mediastinoscopy is indicated if ct shows nodal metastases or if there are signs of tumour invasion , but not in ct-negative t1 or t2 tumour . abdominal metastases indicated by ct should be investigated with ct-guided needle biopsy . 
titrated intravenous barbiturates in the control of symptoms in patients with terminal cancer . patients with terminal cancer may have a series of severe and dehumanizing physical and psychologic symptoms . to improve symptom control in the final days and hours of life , we administer intravenous barbiturates continuously to provide heavy sedation or continuous somnolence . titrated dosage is then reduced to a minimum , after a desired steady-state has been achieved . improved symptom control is provided , and the patient 's dignity is maintained until death . 
scalp pilomatrix carcinoma as an extra-axial mass . we report the ct , mri , and angiographic findings in a case of pilomatrix carcinoma that had invaded the temporal bone and presented itself as an extra-axial mass . even though bone destruction was better shown with ct , the tumor mass with its meningeal and tentorial extension was seen more clearly with mri . the arteriogram demonstrated a unique vascular supply from the external carotid artery . 
benign cystic teratoma manifested as an umbilical hernia . we have reported a case of dermoid tumor manifested as an umbilical hernia . resection led to complete recovery . 
stomatococcus mucilaginosus catheter-related infection in an adolescent with osteosarcoma . ours is apparently the first reported pediatric case of stomatococcus mucilaginosus bacteremia . it is the second reported case of s mucilaginosus catheter-associated infection , but the first case successfully treated without removing the central venous catheter . this unusual organism should be added to the list of opportunistic pathogens that can be isolated from immunocompromised pediatric patients . 
management of soft tissue sarcomas of the extremities . the management of soft tissue sarcomas has undergone and continues to undergo important changes . the purpose of this report is to review the presentation , diagnosis , and natural history of soft tissue sarcomas . in so doing , the importance of a careful and rigorous method of evaluation will be emphasized . furthermore , the results of multidisciplinary treatment , with a goal towards limb salvage , will be reviewed . with appropriate and timely intervention , selected patients with pulmonary metastases may still experience long-term survival . throughout this review , the importance of early and continuing multidisciplinary treatment and evaluation will be emphasized . 
possible transmission of serum hepatitis in liver surgery with the ultrasonic dissector . when the ultrasonic dissector is used during liver surgery , the possibility exists of the transmission of virus to the attending hospital personnel because of unavoidable splashing of the irrigating solution . it becomes apparent from this study that the titer of hepatitis b surface antigen in the aspirated irrigating solution is almost the same level as that in the serum . we therefore strongly recommend that eye shields should be used in hepatic surgery when the ultrasonic dissector is in use . 
effects of hypovolemia and transfusion on tumor growth in mca-tumor-bearing rats . pretransplant blood transfusion has been shown to significantly affect the outcome of renal transplantation . evidence regarding the association of blood transfusions with growth or recurrence of solid tumors is still conflicting both in clinical and in experimental studies , although diminished survival has been suggested in several studies . to determine the influence of blood transfusions and hypovolemia , as separate or combined factors , on tumor growth , we evaluated the weight of a subcutaneously implanted sarcoma ( methylcholanthrene-induced ) in 35 rats . after reaching 1 % tumor burden ( day 0 ) , the animals were separated into two groups : hypovolemia ( shed volume , 15 ml/kg ) or normovolemia . these groups were further divided according to resuscitation : oo ( no resuscitation ) , bl ( receiving syngeneic blood stored in citrate phosphate dextrose for 4 days , 15 ml/kg ) , sl ( receiving 0.9 % sodium chloride , 45 ml/kg ) . tumor dimensions were determined daily by external measurement , and tumor weight was calculated . hypovolemia exerted a significant influence on tumor growth , independent of the resuscitation modality . the rats that received blood transfusions showed an increased rate of tumor growth , compared to the animals that received saline solution or no treatment . no interaction was noted between the effects produced by hypovolemia and blood transfusion . we conclude that the hypovolemic event enhanced tumor growth independently of the resuscitation , and transfusion of citrate phosphate dextrose-blood stored for 4 days did influence tumor growth in this model . we suggest that the effect of blood transfusion in patients with cancer has to be redefined to account for the influence of possible hypovolemic events . 
cystic dilatation of the cystic duct : a new type of biliary cyst . a case of a patient with a congenital cyst that was localized solely to the cystic duct is presented . we propose including this anomaly in the biliary cyst classifications , which currently include choledochal and intrahepatic and extrahepatic biliary cysts . the diagnosis and management of this new type of cyst in addition to other types of biliary cysts are discussed . 
malignant melanoma of the biliary tract : a case report . a 58-year-old man was seen with obstructive jaundice and discomfort in the upper abdomen . computed tomographic and ultrasound examinations revealed a soft-tissue mass in the gallbladder . cholecystectomy and choledochotomy revealed a soft black mass in the gallbladder and a second one in the intrapancreatic portion of the common bile duct . each was diagnosed as malignant melanoma . subsequently , a whipple resection of the pancreas , duodenum , and distal bile duct revealed a melanoma circumferentially invading and obstructing the distal common duct . no lymph node or distant metastasis was identified . repetitive searches for another primary site have been negative . the tumor apparently originated in the biliary tract . the patient remains almost well 2 years after diagnosis . 
inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver . inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver is an extremely rare entity . because of its unusual clinical presentation and confusing histologic picture , a diagnosis of malignancy is frequently made . thus the surgeon is closely involved with the case and extensive procedures are not uncommon . however , this lesion is benign and will even regress spontaneously , making radical surgical procedures contraindicated . the difficulty lies in establishing an accurate diagnosis and the histologic pitfalls of this particular process . conservative therapy can then be applied , avoiding surgical morbidity . 
congenital cyst of common bile duct : an unusual cause of obstructive jaundice . congenital cysts , sometimes referred to as nonparasitic biliary cysts , are not unusual findings in the liver parenchyma , but they have not been previously described in the common bile duct . this clinical report describes a 41-year-old woman with obstructive jaundice that was caused by congenital cysts . the patient had obstruction of the middle portion of the common bile duct ; therefore the major differential diagnostic considerations were cholangiocarcinoma , cancer of the pancreas , or true biliary cysts . congenital cysts , retention cysts , and neoplastic cysts can not be differentiated from other true cysts preoperatively . diagnosis can only be established by microscopic examination after surgical excision . 
lymphoma of the gastric stump : report of a case . we report a case of primary lymphoma on a previously resected stomach in a 62-year-old man . the patient was treated 22 years earlier with a partial gastrectomy and billroth ii reconstruction for a benign gastric ulcer . the rarity of this entity and its possible relationship with pseudolymphoma or lymphoid nodular hyperplasia is discussed , and the literature is reviewed . 
gleason 's histologic grading as clinical prognostic marker in patients with advanced prostatic carcinoma . we have found that the gleason 's histologic grading system is a good clinical marker to predict long-term response and prognosis in symptomatic stage d-2 adenocarcinoma of the prostate . in this retrospective study , 56 cases were reviewed and correlated with bone scan , acid phosphatase , and symptomatology following bilateral orchiectomy . 
simultaneous presentation of adenocarcinoma of prostate and transitional cell carcinoma of bladder . simultaneous presentation of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder and adenocarcinoma of the prostate is not uncommon . twenty-two patients were diagnosed as having simultaneous or concurrent presentation of prostate and bladder carcinomas between january 1970 and july 1986 . the overall five-year survival was 40 percent , with patients presenting with prostate cancer doing better ( 50 % ) than those with bladder cancer ( 32 % ) . retrospective review of these cases suggests that primary therapy should be directed to the most advanced cancer . incidental prostate cancer may be " cured " with a cystoprostatectomy and , when indicated , radiation therapy added postoperatively for the bladder cancer . eleven patients presented with stage a prostate cancer : 10 of the 11 were treated for their bladder cancer . treatment was usually radical cystoprostatectomy with or without postoperative radiation . none died of prostate cancer . patients presenting with advanced stage prostate cancer have had recurrence or have died of the cancer . 
results of surgical treatment of kidney cancer with solitary metastasis to contralateral adrenal . a large series of patients were reviewed in two major teaching institutions , and patients with a carcinoma of the kidney with a solitary metastatic deposit in the contralateral adrenal were identified . their survival was analyzed and compared with the survival of those patients having a solitary metastatic deposit in other organs . 
management of symptomatic lymphocele via percutaneous drainage and sclerotherapy with tetracycline . lymph collections following pelvic surgery are usually asymptomatic , but may occasionally produce symptoms requiring invasive therapy . we have successfully obliterated a large lymphocele by employing percutaneous drainage and instilling tetracycline . 
renal cell metastases versus liver hemangioma . we present the case of a man with presumed metastatic renal cell carcinoma based on radiologic examination and weight loss , who refused treatment of any kind for one year . a surgical exploration to control hematuria revealed a stage i tumor . 
squamous cell carcinoma of prostate . a primary squamous cell carcinoma occurring in the prostate of a sixty-nine-year-old man is described . a radical excision that included cystoprostatectomy , total penectomy , scrotectomy , pubic symphysiectomy , and abdominoperineal resection of rectum was done . the patient died of systemic metastases six months after diagnosis . review of the literature suggests that such a cancer of the prostate is rare , highly aggressive , and responds poorly to any mode of therapy . histogenesis of this tumor remains controversial ; however , it probably does not originate from the prostatic acinar cells . 
giant sclerosing leiomyoma of bladder presenting as chronic renal failure . the clinical and pathologic features of a case of giant sclerosing leiomyoma of the bladder in a male polynesian patient are reported . the presenting complication of chronic renal failure due to tumor envelopment of both ureters and consequent bilateral renal obstruction appears to be unique in the literature . 
ureteral stump carcinoma incidentally found at cystectomy for bladder cancer . we report on a sixty-five-year-old man with hematuria secondary to superficial bladder cancer . because of previous urethral trauma , a complete transurethral resection of his bladder tumor could not be done . he , therefore , underwent cystectomy , at which time we incidentally found a transitional cell carcinoma of the left ureteral stump that had been left from a previous left nephrectomy for a world war ii-related injury . this case underscores the importance of a thorough investigation of the complete urinary tract in a patient with hematuria or other urinary tract symptoms even if an obvious cause is found for his symptoms . 
tumor-targeted chemotherapy with lipid contrast medium and macromolecular anticancer drug ( smancs ) for renal cell carcinoma . twenty-five patients with renal cell carcinoma were treated with a lipophilic macromolecular drug , poly ( stylene-co-maleic acid ) - conjugated neocarzinostatin ( smancs ) dissolved in lipid contrast medium ( lipiodol ) . the drug was injected by catheterizing the renal artery and another feeding artery in 24 patients , and in the common hepatic artery in 1 patient with metastases to the liver after a radical nephrectomy . the procedure of selective arterial administration of 3-20 mg/ml of smancs/lipiodol was simple to perform and was required once every two to three weeks . total dose of smancs for each patient varied from 3 to 57 mg . both smancs and lipiodol accumulated more selectively in tumor than in any other tissue and remained in the neovasculature and extracapillary space for a long time . ct pattern of the remaining oil contrast medium in the tumor was characterized by the high-density area localized mainly in the periphery of the tumor around the central necrosis . when hyperviscosity lipiodol ( lipiodol hv ) was used as lipid contrast medium , it remained more persistently in the tumor and disappeared more slowly than lipiodol . moreover , the pronounced anticancer effect was recognized when smancs/lipiodol hv was administered compared with only smancs/lipiodol . severe side effects , such as myelosuppression , unendurable pain , paralytic ileus , etc. , were not observed . this targeting chemotherapy may be of great significance for advanced renal cell carcinoma . 
hypercalcemia in malignancy . the pathogenesis of hypercalcemia in malignancy has been enigmatic until recent years . since the realization in 1980 that bioassays for parathyroid hormone detected a cross-reacting substance in malignancy , progress has been remarkably rapid . a parathyroid hormone-related protein was purified and identified by molecular cloning as a 141-amino acid peptide with limited homology to parathyroid hormone itself . nonetheless , both peptides activate the parathyroid hormone receptor to produce hypercalcemia . it is now clear that the parathyroid hormone-related protein is the cause of hypercalcemia in most solid tumors , particularly squamous and renal carcinomas . new assays for the hormone as well as the related peptide have greatly simplified the differential diagnosis of hypercalcemia . at the same time , new agents for the treatment of hypercalcemia are becoming available , most notably the bisphosphonate drugs . 
giant cell tumor of bone . giant cell tumor is the second most common benign tumor of bone . plain radiographs may demonstrate distinctive features but can also be misleading . the diagnosis may be aided by the use of other imaging modalities , such as bone scan , computed tomography and angiography . the recurrence rate is high , but some of the newer treatments seem to be associated with better outcomes . 
lack of effect of chronic administration of oral beta-carotene on serum cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations . previous studies suggest that chronic oral administration of retinol and other retinoids causes elevation of plasma triglyceride concentrations . the effects of chronic oral administration of beta-carotene , a carotenoid partially metabolized to retinol , on plasma lipid concentrations have not been well studied ; therefore , we studied 61 subjects over 12 mo while they were enrolled in a skin-cancer-prevention study in which patients were randomly assigned to receive either placebo ( n = 30 ) or 50 mg beta-carotene/d orally ( n = 31 ) . at study entry and 1 y later , fasting blood samples were obtained for measurement of triglycerides , total cholesterol , hdl cholesterol , retinol , and beta-carotene . retinol concentrations changed minimally in both groups ; beta-carotene concentration increased an average of 12.1 + / - 47 nmol/l in the placebo group and 4279 + / - 657 nmol/l in the active-treatment group . both groups experienced similar small increases in triglyceride and total cholesterol concentrations and small decreases in hdl cholesterol . daily oral administration of 50 mg beta-carotene/d did not affect plasma lipid concentrations . 
beta-carotene 's effects on serum lipoproteins and immunologic indices in humans . doses of beta-carotene for cancer-prevention trials have been chosen based on epidemiologic data . mechanisms of the putative antineoplastic effects by beta-carotene are unknown but may involve modulation of the immune system . we measured plasma carotenoid concentrations and selected immunologic indices at baseline and at 2 and 4 wk in 50 healthy humans ( 5 groups of 10 each ) ingesting 0 , 15 , 45 , 180 , or 300 mg beta-carotene/d for 1 mo in this randomized placebo-controlled , open-label , parallel study . plasma beta-carotene concentrations were markedly increased by 2 wk and were correlated with dose . beta-carotene concentrations plateaued between 2 and 4 wk except for the 300-mg group . thus , we developed a dose-concentration curve to optimize beta-carotene-dose selection to achieve target plasma concentrations . we were unable to identify any effects of beta-carotene ingestion on the immunologic indices studied , but modest increases in high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol were observed in all beta-carotene-treated groups . 
hypercalcemia with excess serum 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin d in lymphomatoid granulomatosis/angiocentric lymphoma . hypercalcemia has been described in a variety of granulomatous and lymphoproliferative disorders in association with elevated serum levels of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d. in such cases , hypercalcemia appears to be the consequence of excessive production of 1,25 ( oh ) 2d by the lymphocyte/macrophage line . the authors report a patient with lymphomatoid granulomatosis/angiocentric lymphoma who developed hypercalcemia with extreme elevation in serum 1,25 ( oh ) 2d . therapy with steroids reduced the serum calcium and 1,25 ( oh ) 2d levels to normal . hypercalcemia has not previously been reported in lymphomatoid granulomatosis/angiocentric lymphoma . the distinctive features of this malignancy , and the derangement in the metabolism of 1,25 ( oh ) 2d in lymphoproliferative disorders in general , are discussed . 
pericardial metastasis from testicular seminoma : appearance and disappearance by echocardiography . at the time of initial diagnosis , testicular malignancy is usually limited to the testicle and infradiaphragmatic lymph nodes . metastases initially follow the retroperitoneal lymph channels and subsequently extend to the supradiphragmatic lymph nodes in the mediastinum and supraclavicular fossa . testicular metastases to the pericardium are rare and usually asymptomatic . these lesions are most commonly identified at autopsy ; therefore , the actual incidence is unknown . the authors report a 32-year-old man with testicular carcinoma , who developed asymptomatic pericardial metastases without concomitant supradiaphragmatic nodal or pulmonary metastases . they review the efficacy of echocardiography in diagnosis and follow up or pericardial metastasis . 
in vivo phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy of human uveal melanomas and other intraocular tumors . we studied the feasibility of using the surface coil probe technique for the noninvasive in vivo study of ocular tumors by phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy . the characteristic organophosphate metabolites of suspected uveal melanomas before proton beam irradiation were determined qualitatively by phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy in vivo using a three-turn surface coil . spectra of choroidal hemangioma , osteoma , and metastasis were also obtained in vivo and compared with those of uveal melanomas . analysis of spectra performed at 1.5 t showed significant peaks of phosphomonoesters , inorganic phosphate , phosphodiesters , phosphocreatine , and adenosine 5 ' - triphosphates . the unusually high concentration of phosphodiesters may be considered as a marker for uveal melanomas and other choroidal tumors . by analyzing the ratio of phosphocreatine to phosphodiesters spectral area values , we interpreted qualitatively spectra of intraocular tumors to differentiate malignant tumors from benign lesions . nevertheless , the main limitation of interpreting the spectra was their contamination by signals from surrounding tissues . 
incidence of prominent corneal nerves in multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a . we studied the increased visibility of corneal nerves inside an 8-mm diameter central corneal area in 14 patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a , one patient with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2b , five patients with nonhereditary medullary thyroid carcinoma , ten patients with anterior keratoconus , and ten normal subjects . we used a grading system ( grade 0 through grade 4 ) for nerve visibility based on slit-lamp biomicroscopic examination and photographic documentation . all 20 normal eyes showed either grade 0 or grade 1 , which indicated no pathologic thickening of corneal nerves . sixteen of the 28 eyes ( 57 % ) with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a , however , were evaluated as grade 2 or higher , which indicated thickened corneal nerves . the incidence of high nerve visibility in eyes with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a was significantly greater compared to normal eyes ( p less than .0001 ) , anterior keratoconus ( p less than .0001 ) , and nonhereditary medullary thyroid carcinoma ( p = .0012 ) . furthermore , eight of the 28 eyes ( 29 % ) with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a showed markedly prominent corneal nerves ( grade 3 and 4 ) , a prominence similar to those seen in eyes with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2b . there was no definite relationship among prominent nerve , age of the patient , and occurrence of pheochromocytoma . these findings suggest that over half of all patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a show corneal nerves pathologically thickened to different degrees . 
histopathologic evidence of fibrovascular ingrowth four weeks after placement of the hydroxyapatite orbital implant . we studied the histopathologic findings after placement of an orbital hydroxyapatite implant in a patient . the implant was placed after enucleation for a choroidal melanoma and was removed four weeks later because histopathologic examination of the enucleated globe disclosed tumor invasion of the optic nerve that necessitated further orbital tissue removal . our histopathologic findings confirm that there is significant ingrowth of fibrovascular tissue in these implants , even within weeks of implantation . 
ovarian granulosa-stromal cell tumors are characterized by trisomy 12 . eleven ovarian granulosa-stromal cell tumors including 1 thecoma , 2 fibromas , 6 fibrothecomas , and 2 granulosa cell tumors , were karyotyped after direct harvest and/or short-term tissue culture . bilateral fibrothecomas from one patient appeared to lack cytogenetic aberrations : the remaining nine tumors were characterized by trisomy for chromosome 12 . cytogenetic aberrations in the two granulosa cell tumors were much less complex than those described previously in undifferentiated carcinomas ; accordingly cytogenetic analyses might be useful in distinguishing these categories . the consistent occurrence of trisomy 12 in different varieties of granulosa-stromal cell tumors suggests a common mechanism of oncogenesis within this diverse group of neoplasms . that mechanism probably involves promotion of low-grade , orderly cell proliferation . 
development of intrapancreatic transplantable model of pancreatic duct adenocarcinoma in syrian golden hamsters . intrapancreatic and subcutaneous ( sc ) inoculation of cultured pancreatic cancer cells , derived from an induced primary pancreatic cancer in a syrian hamster , resulted in tumor take in all recipient hamsters . the intrapancreatic allografts grew rapidly , were invasive , and metastasized into the lymph nodes and liver in 2 of 9 cases . in comparison , sc tumors grew relatively slower and formed a large encapsulated mass without invasion and metastases . histologically , tumors of both sites showed fairly well-differentiated adenocarcinomas of ductal/ductular type resembling the induced primary cancer . similar to the primary induced pancreatic cancers , tumor cells of both allografts expressed blood-group-related antigens , including a , b , h , le ( b ) , le ( y ) , le ( x ) , and tumor-associated antigen tag-72 . the tumor cells did not express le ( a ) , ca 19-9 , 17-1a , or du-pan-2 . the expression of these antigens was retained in the metastases and presented the same patterns of reactivity as the allografts . thus intrapancreatic transplantation provides a rapid model for production of pancreatic cancer with morphologic similarities to human pancreatic cancer . 
evaluation of hepatocellular carcinoma aggressiveness by a panel of extracellular matrix antigens . invasion and metastasis requires a series of interactions between malignant cells and the extracellular matrix ( ecm ) . antigen markers that relate to these interactions were evaluated for prognostic correlation in human hepatocellular carcinoma . basement membrane type iv collagen ( civ ) , type iv collagenase ( civase ) , laminin , and laminin receptors ( lrs ) -- all ecm antigens previously proposed to be modulated in association with tumor aggressiveness -- were immunohistochemically investigated in 30 cases of hepatocellular carcinomas ( hccs ) . the pattern of antigen expression was correlated with 1 ) 36 months ' clinical follow-up and 2 ) the pathologic grade . as a means of estimating the proliferation fraction , an additional antigen , ki67 , was also studied in this series . there were major differences in the distribution of civ and laminin , and in the quantity of civase - , lr - , and ki67-positive cells associated with grade and prognosis . a smaller quantity of civ and laminin and a higher number of civase - , lr - , and ki67-positive cells were detected in the poorly differentiated compared with the well-differentiated hccs . the tumors with lower immunoreactivity for civ and laminin components accompanied by a higher number of civase - , lr - , and ki67-positive cells fall into a group with the poorest overall survival ( p less than 0.006 ) . the panel of antigens is proposed as a useful prognostic tool for evaluating hcc tumor aggressiveness . 
epithelial cells immortalized by human papillomaviruses have premalignant characteristics in organotypic culture . three hpv-16 -- and four hpv-18 -- immortalized human foreskin keratinocyte cell lines were analyzed on organotypic epidermal raft cultures at various passage levels . this culture system allowed normal cultured keratinocytes to stratify and differentiate in a manner similar to normal epidermis . all seven hpv-immortalized cell lines displayed epidermal morphologies on organotypic cultures , which were clearly abnormal and resembled premalignant lesions in vivo . features of premalignant lesions that were shared by all of the hpv-immortalized cell lines included disorganized tissue architecture , mitotic cells present throughout the living layers of the epidermal sheet , abnormal mitoses , enlarged nuclei , and variable cell size and shape . most hpv-immortalized cell lines were stable in terms of epidermal morphology with long-term passage in culture . two of the hpv-18 -- immortalized cell lines , however , lost all morphologically apparent terminal squamous differentiation potential after long-term passage in monolayer culture . these results strongly support the idea that immortalization of squamous epithelial cells in culture by hpv-transforming genes generates a morphologically premalignant cell . 
expression of vla-alpha 2 , vla-alpha 6 , and vla-beta 1 chains in normal mucosa and adenomas of the colon , and in colon carcinomas and their liver metastases . ' very late antigen ' ( vla ) proteins are members of the integrin superfamily with cell-surface receptor function and are involved in the cell-cell matrix interaction . they are heterodimers with a common beta 1 chain and different alpha chains counted through vla-1 to vla-6 . the vla-2 complex ( alpha 2/beta 1 ) was found to act as collagen receptor on platelets and the vla-6 complex ( alpha 6/beta 1 ) as laminin receptor . using monoclonal antibodies and an indirect immunoperoxidase method , we investigated the expression of vla-alpha 2 , vla-alpha 6 , and vla-beta 1 chains in 20 normal colonic mucosa samples , in 20 colonic adenomas , and in 96 carcinomas together with 10 accompanying liver metastases . all three proteins were expressed throughout the colonic epithelium , except for vla-alpha 2 , which was present in the cryptic gland but was absent on the mucosal surface in some cases . in general , adenomas were strongly positive for the vla proteins but 3 of 20 cases showed focal vla-alpha 2-negative areas . the carcinomas revealed considerable heterogeneity of vla-alpha 2 expression ; ie , 59 tumors were completely positive , 35 tumors revealed a focal loss of antigen , and 2 cases were negative . this reduced antigen expression was statistically associated with dukes ' stage c/d ( p = 0.003 ) . vla-alpha 6 was expressed throughout in all tumors . vla-beta 1 was found extensively expressed in 77 carcinomas , partially expressed in 17 carcinomas , and was absent in 2 carcinomas . as compared to their primary tumors , liver metastases showed roughly corresponding patterns of antigen expression . the down regulation/loss of vla proteins in a subset of epithelial colon tumors might cause a disturbed cell-cell/cell-matrix interaction that might augment the invasive property of their cells . 
basal cell-specific and hyperproliferation-related keratins in human breast cancer . in normal breast tissue and in noninvasive breast carcinomas , various keratin-14 antibodies were reactive predominantly with the basal/myoepithelial cell layer , although mainly in terminal and larger ducts luminal cells sometimes also were stained . a similar reaction pattern was found with an antibody directed against keratin 17 , although this antibody was more often found negative than keratin 14 in the pre-existing myoepithelial cells in intraductal carcinomas . furthermore antibodies reactive with hyperproliferation-related keratins 6 and 16 were used . one of these ( ll025 ) was completely negative in normal breast tissue and noninvasive breast carcinomas . however 10 % of the invasive carcinomas were diffusely or focally positive with this latter antibody , while in 18 of 115 cases of invasive breast carcinomas studied , a basal cell phenotype was detected . a relatively high concordance was found between the carcinomas immunostaining with the basal cell and the hyperproliferation-related keratins , but not between these markers and the proliferation marker ki-67 . this supports the conclusion that basal cells in breast cancer may show extensive proliferation , and that absence of ki-67 staining does not mean that ( tumor ) cells are not proliferating . 
elective diagnostic laparoscopy . laparoscopy developed as a science at the turn of the century , and many scientists assisted in the evolution of this technique . however , it was many years before the multiple trocar system was developed that allowed internal organs to be moved and biopsies to be obtained . this has led to the development of numerous indications for elective diagnostic laparoscopy . adequate preparation and attention to instrumentation ensure the safety of this operation . elective diagnostic laparoscopy is a useful adjunct to many other diagnostic modalities such as , for instance , the assessment of abdominal pain , abdominal masses , fever of unknown origin , and gastrointestinal bleeding . in many other circumstances , such as the assessment of oncology cases , this modality is superior to conventional radiology because biopsy specimens may be obtained . if the procedure is correctly performed , the diagnostic yield is extremely high and the morbidity and mortality are low . the role of this important technique should not be underestimated by today 's practicing surgeon . 
