excitatory amino acids in the developing brain : ontogeny , plasticity , and excitotoxicity . besides their role as neurotransmitters , excitatory amino acids ( eaas ) in the developing brain are crucially involved in plasticity and excitotoxicity which are modified by their distinct ontogeny . along with incomplete neuritogenesis and synaptogenesis , presynaptic markers of the eaa system are immature in the developing brain ; however , postsynaptic eaa system activities , particularly of the n-methyl-d-aspartate and quisqualate receptors , are transiently enhanced early in life . this transient enhancement is presumably beneficial to the immature brain because physiologic activation of the eaa system plays a critical role in plasticity of early learning and morphogenesis . at the same time , this transient hypersensitivity renders the immature brain vulnerable to pathologic excitation of the eaa system ( excitotoxicity ) as observed during neonatal hypoxia-ischemia . 
periventricular hyperintensity detected by magnetic resonance imaging in infancy . twenty-one infants younger than 12 months of age were diagnosed as having periventricular hyperintensity ( pvh ) on t2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging . ten infants had experienced neonatal asphyxia , 6 intracranial hemorrhage , 2 bacterial meningitis , and 3 apnea . pvh was classified according to its extent . round foci of pvh surrounding the frontal and occipital horns of the lateral ventricles were observed in 4 infants ( pvh pattern i ) . continuous pvh was observed in 17 infants ( pvh patterns ii and iii ) . fourteen infants with continuous pvh had spastic diplegia or quadriplegia . developmental delay was demonstrated in 15 infants with continuous pvh . no pvh pattern i infants had cerebral palsy ; only 1 such infant had mild developmental delay . our study suggests that the extent of pvh reflects the severity of brain damage in neonates with cerebral injuries . 
anencephaly : clinical determination of brain death and neuropathologic studies . twelve liveborn anencephalic infants were serially examined to determine if they would meet our clinical criteria for whole brain death within a 7-day period : protocol 1 infants ( 6 ) received intensive care including intubation from birth ; and protocol 2 infants ( 6 ) received intensive care during the period in which death was imminent . brain death was determined by absence of brainstem function , including loss of all cranial nerve responses and sustained apnea ( pco2 greater than 60 torr ) for 48 hours with confirmation of findings by an outside consulting child neurologist . the initial examinations of these 12 infants revealed spontaneous movements and startle myoclonus ( 12 ) , suck , root , and gag responses ( 7 ) , increased tone ( 8 ) , deep tendon reflexes ( 9 ) , absent pupillary responses ( 9 ) , absent oculocephalic and corneal responses ( 6 ) , absent auditory/moro responses ( 7 ) , and nonvisualization of the optic nerve ( 8 ) . mild depression of neurologic function occurred during the first several days of life ; subsequently , the infants ' responses were easier to elicit and more sustained . only 2 infants met the clinical criteria for brain death . neuropathologic findings indicated that observed complex motor responses were not based upon cortical activity because no infant had a normally-formed cerebrum . brainstem neuronal activity may have accounted for these motor responses in some patients but even at this level neurons were scanty or absent . our findings suggest that , although rare , clinical brain death can be determined in liveborn anencephalic infants ; ophthalmologic and otologic developmental abnormalities may confound examination of cranial nerve function ; and absence of cortical neurons supports the widely held opinion that these infants do not experience sensation . 
acth therapy in infantile spasms : relationship between dose of acth and initial effect or long-term prognosis . the relationship between the dose of acth and the initial effect was investigated in 41 children with infantile spasms . more than 0.015 mg ( 0.6 iu ) / kg/day of acth was needed for a good initial response of seizures and electroencephalographic abnormalities . the relationship between the dose of acth and long-term prognosis was investigated in 29 patients . there was no relationship between the daily or total acth dosage , provided the dose was greater than 0.015 mg ( 0.6 iu ) / kg/day , and the outcome of seizures and electroencephalographic abnormalities ; however , acth 0.04-0 .06 mg ( 1.6-2 .4 iu ) / kg/day and a total acth dose of 1.1-1 .5 mg ( 44-60 iu ) / kg resulted in better mental development than smaller doses of acth . side effects of acth increased with dosage . too small or too large a dose of acth does not lead to better mental development . the proper dose of acth should be used with careful attention to potential side effects . 
gross motor patterns in children with cerebral palsy and spastic diplegia . rolling , sitting , and crawling patterns were motoscopically analyzed in 72 children with cerebral palsy and spastic diplegia ; the relation between these patterns and the severity of the locomotive disability was studied . in rolling , trunk rotation and elbow support were difficult for the most severely diplegic children . when sitting , most patients had a between-heel sitting pattern in which the thighs were adducted and the knees were flexed . when crawling , the reciprocal thigh movements were insufficient and accompanied by lateral bending of the trunk in many patients . in the more impaired patients , the thighs supported the weight in flexion and did not move reciprocally . creeping on the elbows without reciprocal leg movements was demonstrated in the most severely affected children after 2 years of age . 
multiple intracranial mucoceles associated with phaeohyphomycosis of the paranasal sinuses . the purpose of this article is to alert clinicians to a new pathogenic fungus of the paranasal sinuses called exserohilum rostratum . exserohilum species are one of the etiologic agents of phaeohyphomycosis , a constellation of entities caused by dematiaceous fungi . this class of fungal sinus infection has emerged only in the past decade ; it occurs primarily in immunocompetent individuals and produces a tenacious , progressive pansinusitis . to our knowledge , this study describes the first case of multiple intracranial mucoceles secondary to e rostratum . the diagnostic workup includes computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging followed by direct microscopic examination of tissue biopsy specimens . a craniotomy followed by a bilateral external ethmoidectomy was necessary for complete extirpation of the infected mucoceles . aggressive surgical management of this mycotic infection is described . 
hyponatraemia secondary to an inappropriately high release of antidiuretic hormone in cardiac tamponade . a spontaneous intrapericardial haemorrhage caused cardiac tamponade in a 29 year old paraplegic man who was being treated with warfarin . the associated persistent hyponatraemia , which was believed to be caused by an inappropriately high release of antidiuretic hormone , rapidly resolved after pericardiocentesis . 
primary leptomeningeal b-cell lymphoma in a 8-year-old child . a case of primary leptomeningeal b-cell lymphoma in an 8-year-old , previously healthy child is described . the child was found to have hypogammaglobulinemia , and the epstein-barr virus genome was identified in cultured tumor cells despite blood serology being negative for the virus . the patient was treated with cyclophosphamide , doxorubicin , vincristine , and dexamethasone , plus intrathecal methotrexate , and initially improved . before the initiation of craniospinal radiation , the patient developed progressive disease , deteriorated , and died 9 months after the onset of symptoms . 
epidural morphine for analgesia after caesarean section : a report of 4880 patients this retrospective study was undertaken to assess the efficacy and safety of epidural morphine in providing analgesia following caesarean section under epidural anaesthesia . the morphine was administered as a single bolus , following delivery , in doses ranging from 2 to 5 mg . the charts of 4880 caesarean sections , performed on 4500 patients , were reviewed . the duration of analgesia and the occurrence of any symptoms which might be side-effects of the epidural morphine were recorded . the duration of analgesia was 22.9 + / - 10.1 hr and was not correlated with the dose of epidural morphine . eleven per cent of the patients required no supplemental analgesia during the first 48 hr . twelve patients ( 0.25 per cent ) had respiratory rates less than 10 breaths per minute , on at least one occasion . no serious sequelae resulted from these periods of bradypnoea . pruritus occurred in 58 per cent of patients , nausea and vomiting in 39.9 per cent and dizziness in ten per cent . herpes simplex labialis was recorded in 3.5 per cent of patients . epidural morphine is thus confirmed as an effective analgesic technique post-caesarean section with 3 mg being the optimal dose . even in this young healthy patient population , clinically detectable respiratory depression occurs so clinical respiratory monitoring is indicated . 
ethyl chloride and venepuncture pain : a comparison with intradermal lidocaine . one hundred and twenty unpremedicated patients undergoing gynaecological surgery were randomly allocated to one of three equal treatment groups to assess the effectiveness of ethyl chloride in producing instant skin anaesthesia to prevent the pain of venepuncture from a 20 g cannula . they received either no anaesthetic , 0.2 ml one per cent lidocaine plain intradermally or a ten-second spray of ethyl chloride at the cannulation site . ethyl chloride produced skin anaesthesia that significantly reduced the pain of venepuncture . however , it was not as effective as intradermal lidocaine . it had no effect on vein visualisation or ease of cannulation . ethyl chloride can be recommended as a method of producing instant skin anaesthesia . 
brain protection : physiological and pharmacological considerations . part i : the physiology of brain injury . ischaemia , whether focal or global in nature , produces a sequence of intracellular events leading to increased cell permeability to water and ions including ca + + . there is a loss of cellular integrity and function , with increased production of prostaglandins , free radicals , and acidosis with lactate accumulation . these events may be exacerbated by glucose administration . pharmacological agents aimed at alleviating ischaemic injury could be directed at decreasing cerebral metabolic requirements for oxygen , improving flow to ischaemic areas , preventing ca + ( + ) - induced injury , inhibition of free radical formation , lactate removal , inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis , and prevention of complement-mediated leukocyte aggregation . part i of this paper describes some of the pathophysiological events leading to ischaemic brain injury . part 2 of this paper will consider the current agents available for brain protection . 
transoesophageal pacing for perioperative control of neonatal paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia . the perioperative management of a 16-day-old infant with recurrent supraventricular tachycardia ( svt ) is discussed . vagal manoeuvres and medication were not adequate in controlling the svt . since the patient was scheduled for extensive surgery in the prone position , it was decided to use transoesophageal pacing as the method of choice for conversion of svt . transoesophageal pacing succeeded several times in overriding the svt and restoring normal heart rate and haemodynamic variables . the advantages and disadvantages of various methods of treating svt in the newborn are discussed . 
hospital admissions from the surgical day care centre of vancouver general hospital 1977-1987 . the admissions to vancouver general hospital from its surgical day care centre were reviewed for the period 1977 to 1987 . the overall mean rate of admission for the period was 0.28 per cent , for surgically-related admissions 0.22 per cent and for anaesthesia-related admissions 0.07 per cent . the principal reasons for surgery-related admissions were postoperative bleeding , complications , the need for further surgery , the requirement for prolonged postoperative care , and pain . urology had a particularly high percentage of admissions compared with its workload , because of the diagnostic nature of much of the work . anaesthesia-related admissions included " syncope , " lack of an accompanying adult , aspiration pneumonitis and coincident acute disease . twelve of the 14 patients admitted with syncope had surgery in the afternoon and had received less than ideal amounts of intravenous fluid . seven of the 12 asa physical status ii patients admitted had an admission diagnosis related to the coincident disease . 
two siblings with phenotypes mimicking peroxisomal disorders but with discordant biochemical findings . the authors present a report on two sibling with a nearly identical phenotype mimicking peroxisomal disorder but with totally discordant biochemical findings . in an attempt to confirm the diagnosis of a peroxisomal disorder , plasma levels of very long chain fatty acids ( vlcfa ) and phytanic acid were determined . in addition , fibroblasts profile of vlcfa and plasmalogen levels were evaluated for case 2 . pathomorphological examinations represented by lymph node and kidney biopsies as well as postmortem examinations of liver , adrenals and brain were performed in case 1 . the phenotypes of both siblings showed marked resemblance to those observed in children with zellweger syndrome . the results of biochemical tests performed in case 1 , together with abundant peroxisomes in the liver and the wide spectrum of clinical abnormalities suggest pseudo-zellweger or zellweger-like syndromes , but no conclusive data have been found . the plasmalogen level in fibroblasts as well as the fibroblasts profile of vlcfa noted in case 2 were within the normal range , thus excluding the possibility of a peroxisomal disorder . the striking phenotype resemblance of the siblings mimicking zellweger , together with discordant biochemical findings , are difficult to explain on the basis of currently available tests . 
the exeter dysphagia assessment technique . the exeter dysphagia assessment technique ( edat ) uses noninvasive equipment to record , simultaneously , " feeding respiratory patterns , " the time drink entered the mouth , and associated swallow sounds during feeding . the easily portable equipment enabled patients ' swallowing ability to be tested , at the bedside if necessary , using a small amount of fruit-flavored drink . the results appear in chart form . edat findings from groups of normal subjects aged 2-90 years were compared with those from patients with dysphagia of neurologic origin and normal subjects under experimental feeding conditions . the results revealed maturation of the feeding respiratory pattern in the teenage years and remarkable consistency thereafter . differences in the recordings between the normal and abnormal subjects were sufficiently marked to allow the findings to be used in the diagnosis of other patients with dysphagia of doubtful neurologic cause . interpretation of the charts and recorded timings of the oral and pharyngeal stages of swallowing permitted a more accurate identification of sensory nerve , motor nerve , and functional involvement causing dysphagia of neurologic origin and may be used as a guide to the origin of the sensory deficit . 
transient neuromuscular impairment resulting from prolonged inhalation of halothane and enflurane . inhalation anesthesia first with halothane followed by enflurane relieved a patient with status asthmaticus who was refractory to conventional therapy including mechanical ventilation . after 13 days of anesthesia while on mechanical ventilation and employing nondepolarizing muscle relaxants , significant neuromuscular impairment , manifested by tetraplegia and sensory disturbance , developed . anesthesia was discontinued on day 14 , and the patient was weaned from mechanical ventilation on day 16 . over the next two months , the neuromuscular impairment markedly improved . halothane was associated with cardiac arrhythmias and hepatitis necessitating replacement by enflurane . enflurane appeared to be as effective a treatment for refractory asthma as halothane . the most probable cause of the neuromuscular impairment in our patient was the long-term use of inhalation anesthetics or nondepolarizing muscle relaxants . 
resolution of the adult respiratory distress syndrome following colectomy and liver transplantation . a 32-year-old woman with liver failure from end-stage cirrhosis and ulcerative colitis developed septicemia and severe ards . subtotal colectomy and a successful liver transplantation resulted in complete resolution of the ards . 
barrett 's esophagus in children and young adults . frequent association with mental retardation . since few data are available on epidemiologic features of barrett 's esophagus in young persons , we reviewed the case records of patients undergoing esophageal biopsies at children 's hospital , boston , from 1982 through 1986 . there were 1423 esophageal biopsies obtained from 1173 patients , and histological evidence of esophagitis was present in 397 cases ; barrett 's epithelium was diagnosed in 10 patients ( 0.9 % of total and 2.5 % of esophagitis cases ) . specialized columnar epithelium was present in seven of these 10 patients . the mean age of those with barrett 's epithelium was 19.0 + / - 7.9 years ( range 3.7-27 years ) compared to 8.7 + / - 6.7 years ( range 4 days to 31 years ) for all patients biopsied ( p less than 0.0001 ) ; 80 % ( 8/10 ) of the barrett 's cases were male compared to 54 % of all cases . the relative importance of the possible risk factors was assessed by comparing the 10 patients with barrett 's with the 541 patients that had esophageal biopsies in calendar years 1984-1985 . mental retardation , a risk factor not previously described for young persons with barrett 's esophagitis , was present in 70 % ( 7/10 ) of the barrett 's patients but in only 15 % of all patients biopsied ( p less than 0.0002 ) . the frequency of mental retardation was also higher , but not significantly so ( p greater than 0.07 ) , in patients with biopsies that were positive for esophagitis ( 19 % ) than in those with normal biopsies ( 14 % ) . no significant differences were found between the barrett 's group and all patients biopsied in regards to racial origin , prior stricture , or fundoplication . 
scintigraphic measurement of oropharyngeal transit in man . scintigraphic studies of the oropharyngeal transit of a liquid bolus were performed in 15 healthy controls , 12 patients with symptoms of oral-pharyngeal dysphagia , and 13 patients with neuromuscular disease , who did not have dysphagia . gamma camera imaging of the head , neck , and upper thorax was undertaken , in the lateral projection , during the swallowing of the radiolabeled bolus of water . inspection of summed images permitted the selection of regions of interest ( roi ) to represent the mouth , pharynx , and upper esophagus . transit times between each roi were calculated and compared . significant prolongation of bolus transit time between the mouth and esophagus was present in both patients with and without dysphagia ( 0.59 + / - 0.38 sec and 0.33 + / - 0.7 sec ; mean + / - sd , respectively ) compared with controls ( 0.26 + / - 0.04 sec p less than 0.001 , p less than 0.01 , respectively , mann-whitney u test ) . repeat studies in 25 individuals indicated that the transit measurements were more reproducible between swallows in normal subjects than in patients with symptoms . deglutitive scintigraphy provides a noninvasive technique for the quantitative study of swallowing and its disorders . 
irritable bowel syndrome in women having diagnostic laparoscopy or hysterectomy . relation to gynecologic features and outcome . we identified irritable bowel syndrome ( ibs ) in 47.7 % of 86 women having diagnostic laparoscopy for chronic pelvic pain , 39.5 % of 172 women having elective hysterectomy , and 32.0 % of 172 controls age-matched for the hysterectomy group ( p = ns ) . constipation and pain subtype ibs were more common in hysterectomy patients than controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . in laparoscopy patients , dyspareunia was more common in those with ibs than in those without it ( p less than 0.05 ) . in the hysterectomy group , more ibs patients had chronic pelvic pain ( p less than 0.005 ) , and abnormal menses ( p less than 0.01 ) . chronic pelvic pain was more frequently the only prehysterectomy diagnosis in ibs patients ( p less than 0.05 ) , and ibs was present more often when pain was a reason for hysterectomy ( p less than 0.01 ) . one year after laparoscopy , ibs patients gave lower overall status ratings ( p less than 0.01 ) and lower pain improvement ratings ( p less than 0.05 ) than non-ibs patients . in women who had a hysterectomy for pain , there was less pain improvement one year later in those with the pain subtype of ibs than in non-ibs patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . ibs is associated with gynecologic symptoms and affects the symptomatic outcome of diagnostic laparoscopy and hysterectomy . 
myasthenia gravis . myasthenia gravis is a disorder of neuromuscular function resulting from an immunologically based premature destruction of acetylcholine receptors . the disease is characterized clinically by variable weakness accentuated by repetitive muscular activity and usually responding to the administration of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors . myasthenia gravis is a complex disease and requires understanding of the many facets of its natural history and immunological basis to ensure optimal individual patient management . the long-term goal is control of the immunological imbalance ; treatment regimens include thymectomy , corticosteroids , azathioprine , and plasmapheresis . the common use of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors provides symptomatic relief during variable daily muscular activity . disability due to myasthenia gravis is to a large extent reversible and death is preventable . early recognition of myasthenia gravis and appropriate treatment are often rewarded by remission that may be permanent . 
anorectal function in incontinent patients with cerebrospinal disease . anorectal manometry and the electrical activity of the external anal sphincter were measured in 20 patients with well-defined , incomplete spinal lesions who were referred because of fecal incontinence and in 30 normal subjects . six patients had a high spinal lesion , 11 had a low spinal lesion , and 3 had mixed high and low spinal lesions . patients with high spinal lesions had normal basal pressures but abnormally low squeeze pressures and impaired rectal sensation . unlike normal subjects , there was no relationship between the depth of sphincter relaxation and the distention volumes . the external sphincter responses to rectal distention and increases in intraabdominal pressure were enhanced , and leakage of perfusion fluid was uncommon . patients with low spinal lesions had abnormally low basal and squeeze pressures , blunted rectal sensation , and showed impaired external anal sphincter responses to rectal distention or increases in intraabdominal pressures . most of these patients leaked the infused fluid during these maneuvers . sphincter function in patients with mixed lesions was more severely impaired than in patients with low and high spinal lesions . patients with mixed lesions showed abnormally low basal and squeeze pressures , impaired rectal sensation , and no external anal sphincter responses to either rectal distention or increases in intraabdominal pressure . leakage occurred during these maneuvers in all patients with mixed lesions . 
dementia , depression , or grief ? the differential diagnosis . depression , grief , and dementia are conditions frequently encountered among the community-living elderly . this review offers a primary care perspective of the distinguishing features for each and discusses the special issues of managing the elderly . major depression in the elderly usually responds to antidepressant medication , whether the depression occurs alone ( endogenous ) or as a response to another condition ( reactive ) . 
semantic deterioration in alzheimer 's : the patterns to expect . differentiating language changes between the normal aged and those in the early stages of dementia is never simple . knowing the differences and what to expect can aid in making this diagnosis . 
the auditory p300 event-related potential : an objective marker of the encephalopathy of chronic liver disease . recently many variants of electroencephalogram-evoked responses have been studied as potential diagnostic aids in the detection and evaluation of hepatic encephalopathy . this study assesses the value of the auditory p300 event-related potential -- a slow component of the auditory evoked response -- as a tool in this field . twenty-one nonencephalopathic and 12 encephalopathic ( grade 1/2 ) cirrhotic patients and 26 controls were assessed clinically and psychometrically . electroencephalogram spectral analysis and visual evoked response recordings were also conducted . an auditory p300 wave was elicited using the standard two-tone discrimination paradigm . the latency and amplitude of this wave were measured . the latency of the p300 was found to be significantly increased in the encephalopathic patients compared with both nonencephalopathic cirrhotic and control groups ( p less than 0.05 ) . amplitude of the wave was decreased in both nonencephalopathic and encephalopathic patients , but this was not statistically significant . this study suggests that the latency of the p300 is a good marker of grades 1 and 2 clinical hepatic encephalopathy . the delays in the p300 latency may indicate that encephalopathic patients have a deterioration of their stimulus evaluation abilities . 
increased serotoninergic and noradrenergic activity in hepatic encephalopathy in rats with thioacetamide-induced acute liver failure . functional changes of various neurotransmitter systems have been implicated in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy . in this study the role of brain monoaminergic neurotransmitter systems in hepatic encephalopathy was investigated in rats with thioacetamide-induced acute liver failure . concentrations of serotonin , dopamine , noradrenaline and of their metabolites 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid , dihydroxyphenylalanine ( following inhibition of dihydroxyphenylalanine-decarboxylase ) , dihydroxyphenylacetic acid , homovanillic acid and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenyl-glycol , were measured in the cerebral cortex , striatum and hippocampus by high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection . in hepatic encephalopathy concentrations of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid were increased in all three brain areas ( 196 % , 204 % and 264 % of saline-treated controls , p less than 0.01 ) , and concentrations of serotonin were increased in the frontal cortex ( 121 % , p less than 0.01 ) . in the frontal cortex and hippocampus of encephalopathic rats dopamine levels were increased ( 157 % and 289 % , p less than 0.05 ) , and levels of noradrenaline ( 53 % and 46 % , p less than 0.05 ) were decreased associated with increased 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol levels ( 173 % and 206 % , p less than 0.05 ) . the extent of these changes correlated with the stage of hepatic encephalopathy . in hepatic encephalopathy dihydroxyphenylalanine accumulation was increased in the hippocampus and unchanged in the cerebral cortex . dopamine , noradrenaline , dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid concentrations were unchanged in the striatum . the results of this study indicate that hepatic encephalopathy in thioacetamide-induced acute liver failure in rats is associated with neurochemical changes , suggesting an increased activity of the noradrenergic and serotoninergic neurotransmitter systems . 
pain experiences of intensive care unit patients . the purpose of this study was to describe various dimensions of the pain experiences of intensive care unit ( icu ) patients . a purposive , primarily surgical sample of 24 icu patients from two hospitals was interviewed after transfer from icu . all but one patient remembered their icu stay . although this and six other patients had no recall of pain , 63 % of the sample rated their pain as being moderate to severe in intensity . in a subgroup of nine patients having cardiac surgery , mean morphine sulfate administration during the first three postoperative days was 14 mg/day . this group of patients reported a lack of total pain relief from analgesics . patients also described various sources of their pain , difficulties they had in communicating their pain , and nonpharmacologic methods that helped relieve their pain . results of this study clearly indicate that not only pain but its communication and treatment were significant problems for a substantial portion of this icu sample . further descriptive and experimental research of pain characteristics and treatment practices for icu patients is urgently needed . improvements in nursing practice that result from such research may make a substantial difference in the comfort and well-being of critically ill patients . 
fungal pseudomeningitis superimposed on escherichia coli meningitis . pseudomeningitis is the demonstration of microorganisms from the cerebrospinal fluid by stain or culture in a patient with symptoms suggesting meningitis . this is a report of fungal pseudomeningitis superimposed on a case of nosocomial escherichia coli meningitis resulting from a neurosurgical procedure . critical care personnel need to be aware of the possibility of pseudomeningitis with or without associated meningitis in the appropriate setting . 
evaluating oxygen delivery and oxygen utilization with mixed venous oxygen saturation monitoring : a case study approach . three cases studies are presented to demonstrate clinical application of mixed venous oxygen saturation ( svo2 ) monitoring in critical care nursing practice . examples of critically ill patients are used to demonstrate how svo2 monitoring can be used in clinical practice to reflect an imbalance between oxygen delivery and oxygen utilization . in the first case , the patient had a problem with oxygen delivery . continuous svo2 data aided nurses in guiding , adjusting , and assessing therapy . the second case demonstrates how svo2 monitoring can provide an early sign of a life-threatening complication . the final case is one in which the patient had a problem with oxygen utilization . in all the cases , continuous svo2 data provided important information about the balance between oxygen delivery and oxygen utilization . 
the effect of improved cementing techniques on component loosening in total hip replacement . an 11-year radiographic review . improved cementing techniques have been shown to decrease the rate of aseptic loosening of femoral components of cemented total hip replacements at five to seven years . we now report our results in 105 hips in 93 patients at 10 to 12.7 years ( mean 11.2 ) . the improved techniques included use of a medullary plug , a cement gun , a doughy mix of simplex p and a collared stem of chrome cobalt . only three femoral components had definitely loosened , none were probably loose and 24 were graded as possibly loose . in contrast , the incidence of radiographic loosening on the acetabular side was 42 % . improved cementing techniques have produced a marked reduction in the rate of aseptic loosening of the femoral component , but the incidence of acetabular loosening is unchanged . 
chiari pelvic osteotomy for osteoarthritis . the influence of the torn and detached acetabular labrum . we assessed the results of chiari pelvic osteotomy in 64 hips with early osteoarthritis in terms of acetabular labral detachment detected pre-operatively by arthrography . at an average follow-up of four years , assessment by the merle d'aubigne score showed 83 % excellent or good results . these satisfactory results were achieved in only half the cases with a detached labrum , but in nearly all cases with normal or torn acetabular labra . other factors such as the acetabular index , the level and angle of osteotomy , and the displacement following osteotomy did not affect the results . chiari pelvic osteotomy is a worthwhile procedure for early osteoarthritis in selected cases , but a detached acetabular labrum increases the risk of clinical failure . 
the hastings bipolar hemiarthroplasty for subcapital fractures of the femoral neck . a 10-year prospective study . in a 10-year prospective study , 561 displaced subcapital fractures of the femoral neck in 546 patients were treated with the hastings bipolar hemiarthroplasty . within six months of their operations , 148 patients had died . in 322 hips followed up , 243 with adequate serial radiographs separated by more than one year , only 14 ( 5.6 % ) showed acetabular erosion . a group of 91 had been reviewed for between three and nine years ( mean , 4 years 10 months ) and of these , 95 % had no pain or slight pain only . comparison with an earlier series of conventional hemiarthroplasties reported from this institution showed that the clinical results were similar , but that the erosion rate had been halved . 
reduction of post-traumatic swelling and compartment pressure by impulse compression of the foot . following the discovery of a powerful venous pump in the foot that is activated by weight-bearing independently of muscular action , a pneumatic impulse device was developed to actuate this pump artificially . in a multicentre international trial the device was shown to reduce post-traumatic and postoperative swelling ; pain also was alleviated . evidence is also presented that dangerously high compartment pressures may be reduced to acceptable levels and fasciotomy avoided . we present an explanation of the clinical effects of activation of the venous footpump , based on recent improved understanding of the physiology of the microcirculation . the hyperaemic response that follows the liberation of endothelial-derived relaxing factor ( edrf ) by sudden changes of pressure after weight-bearing or impulse compression is particularly important . 
the management of the painful first metatarsophalangeal joint in the older patient . arthrodesis or keller 's arthroplasty ? we report a prospective randomised trial comparing keller 's arthroplasty and arthrodesis of the first metatarsophalangeal joint for the management of symptomatic hallux valgus and hallux rigidus in the older patient . in 81 patients ( 110 feet ) , with a minimum of two years follow-up , both procedures gave a similar degree of patient satisfaction and symptom relief . the incidence of metatarsalgia was also similar . as there were no obvious advantages to arthrodesis , and since six out of 50 arthrodesed toes required revision , we suggest that keller 's arthroplasty is the better operation in these patients . 
the modified schollner costoplasty . the modified schollner costoplasty is a cosmetic procedure for the correction of rib prominence deformity in scoliosis . we present the results of the procedure in 21 patients who had previously undergone spinal fusion for scoliosis . we found the procedure to be well tolerated without major complications . objective cosmetic improvement was achieved in all but one case . all but one patient considered the procedure to have been of cosmetic benefit . 
a surgical approach to the cervicothoracic spine . we describe a method for approaching the lower cervical and upper thoracic spine , the brachial plexus and related vessels . the method involves the elevation of the medial corner of the manubrium , the sternoclavicular joint , and the medial half of the clavicle on a pedicle of the sternomastoid muscle . we have used this exposure in 17 cases with few complications and good results . its successful performance requires high standards of anaesthesia , surgical technique and postoperative care . 
operative and conservative treatment of moderate spondylolisthesis in young patients . we made a retrospective study of 149 children and adolescents with moderate spondylolisthesis ( slip less than or equal to 30 % ) , 77 treated by fusion and 72 conservatively at an average follow-up of 13.3 years . both groups were fully comparable with regard to age at diagnosis , sex distribution ( 46 % girls ) , and mean slip . the patients who were treated operatively had more pain before treatment and showed more initial progression of the slip . they had better clinical results and less pain at latest review , but the total progression of the slip over the whole follow-up showed no statistical differences between the two groups . patients with a pseudarthrosis after attempted fusion had had a longer period of postoperative pain , but at the latest review had no more pain than those with sound fusion . none of those treated conservatively came to fusion later and the long-term results in 18 patients who had refused the advised operation were no worse than those for other conservatively treated patients . our results suggest that a moderate grade of spondylolisthesis in adolescents usually has a benign course . it seems that spontaneous segmental stabilisation occurs as a result of degeneration of the disc at the level of the slip . 
combined epidural and general anesthesia in aortic surgery . the perioperative course of 144 consecutive patients undergoing aortic reconstructive surgery was studied to assess the potential benefit of employing a combined epidural and light general anesthesia technique . a group of 67 patients had general anesthesia alone ( ga ) , while in the group of 77 remaining patients , a combined epidural and general anesthesia ( epi-ga ) was employed . the two groups were similar in regards to age , medical risk factors , preoperative assessment of cardiac and pulmonary function , and type of surgical reconstruction . there was no significant difference in the anesthetic , operative time , or operative fluid requirements between the two groups . there was a lower rate pressure product in the epi-ga group during aortic cross clamping ( p less than 0.05 ) . more patients in the ga group required a prolonged ventilatory support ( p less than 0.05 ) and a high parenteral narcotic administration ( p less than 0.025 ) during the first 48 hours . while the mortality rate was similar for the two groups ( 3.0 % for ga group vs 5.2 % for epi-ga group ) , there was a higher percent of postoperative pulmonary complications observed in the ga group ( 7.6 % ) compared to the epi-ga group ( 2.6 % ) . by facilitating early extubation and a decreased need for systemic narcotics in the early postoperative period , epi-ga may be beneficial in the high risk pulmonary patient undergoing aortic reconstruction . 
unusual haemostasis for an unusual tumour . catastrophic bleeding from a tactile neurofibroma affecting the thoracic vertebrae . case report . the symptomatology of a typical acute descending thoracic aorta dissection was imitated by profuse haemorrhage caused by a benign tumour composed almost exclusively of wagner-meissner like tactile corpuscles and fatty tissue . the tumour caused extensive destruction of the bodies of the fifth and sixth thoracic vertebrae at the level of the vertebro-costal articulation . emergency cross clamping of the descending aorta and haemostasis of the bleeding from osteal defects by tamponade with bone polymethyl methacrylate appeared the only way to control the life threatening haemorrhage . it seems that an intrathoracic tactile neurofibroma with a similar case history has not been reported till now . 
deletion of alu sequences in the fifth c-sis intron in individuals with meningiomas . an abnormality in the c-sis protooncogene was identified in leukocyte dna from members of a family predisposed to the development of meningioma , and was found to be associated with the development of the tumor in those individuals . molecular analysis of this abnormality demonstrated a deletion within the fifth intron of the c-sis gene . the normal c-sis gene has an alu sequence in this region which includes two perfect 130 nucleotide repeated sequences separated by 5 bp . the deleted c-sis allele is missing precisely one copy of the 130 bp repeat and the intervening 5 bp . an identical deletion was also found in dna from 1 of 13 sporadic meningiomas . 
cheilitis granulomatosa : report of six cases and review of the literature . six cases of cheilitis granulomatosa , a rare inflammatory disorder of unknown origin , are reported . the condition produces nontender , persistent swelling of one or both lips and affects primarily young adults . histologically , nonnecrotizing granulomatous inflammation is seen . the clinical findings and results of therapy in these six cases are presented . one patient was treated with hydroxychloroquine sulfate ( plaquenil ) that stabilized the process . one of our patients had vesicular-appearing lesions . microscopic examination showed the lesions to be dilated superficial lymphatic channels , a finding that to our knowledge has not been previously described . 
the relationship of pemphigus to neoplasia . a statistically increased incidence of malignancy has been observed in patients with pemphigus . a review of the literature reveals 42 cases of nonthymic malignancies and 18 cases of thymic malignancies . a significant predominance of men , with mean age at onset of 50 years , was observed . pemphigus vulgaris is more common in patients with nonthymic neoplasms , whereas pemphigus foliaceus or pemphigus erythematosus and pemphigus vulgaris are equally common in patients with thymic neoplasms . lymphoreticular malignancies , especially kaposi 's sarcoma , are most frequently observed . the majority of patients with nonthymic neoplasms have pemphigus before the detection of the malignancy and have a favorable 5-year survival rate after tumor resection . the majority of the patients with thymic neoplasms have a thymoma before the development of pemphigus . in some patients pemphigus develops after thymectomy and myasthenia gravis is often associated . overall , 37 of the 60 patients , or 61 % , had a neoplasm of the immune system . 
prevalence and characteristics of multiple analgesic drug use in an elderly study group . with few exceptions , use of multiple analgesic drugs achieves dubious increases in analgesia while placing elders at increased risk of the many potential adverse effects of analgesic drugs . the potential for duplication of analgesic therapy among the elderly is great due to prevalent painful chronic conditions and the variety of prescription and nonprescription analgesic remedies available . the prevalence of multiple analgesic product use and patterns of concurrent use of different analgesic categories was investigated in a geographically defined population of persons 65 years of age and older . the demographic characteristics of users of multiple analgesic drug products were examined , as were their smoking status , alcohol use , lifetime history rates of major illnesses , physical functioning , pain experiences , memory performance , and depressive symptoms . a substantial proportion of analgesic users reported taking multiple products in the preceding 2 weeks ( 14.4 % of female and 10.5 % of male analgesic users ) . men who reported pain in the preceding year were more likely to use multiple analgesic products . women who experienced pain or limited physical functioning , or who had higher depressive symptom scores or a life-time history of ulcers were most likely to use multiple analgesic products . thus , although some users of multiple analgesic products reported significant pain , several other factors were shown to be related to the phenomenon of multiple use . 
pelvic pain : lessons from anatomy and physiology . pelvic pain is often a difficult differential diagnosis in the emergency department . for physiologic reasons , pain in the pelvis is difficult to localize to a specific organ , and pelvic peritonitis is hard to recognize . on the other hand , differences in types of pain can be very useful in arriving at a correct diagnosis . the clinician must learn to recognize superficial and deep somatic pain , and differentiate between various types of visceral pain which originate from inflammation , ischemia , or colic . a review of the anatomy and physiology of pelvic pain helps identify some of the problems as well as potential aids in approaching the patient with pelvic pain . 
treatment of phenobarbital poisoning with multiple dose activated charcoal in an infant . a 28-day-old infant developed lethargy , hypotonia , and hypothermia following a phenobarbital overdose secondary to a pharmacist 's error . he was treated with multiple dose activated charcoal ( mdac ) and alkalinization of the urine , which resulted in prompt recovery with rapid elimination of the drug ( t1/2 -11.2 hours , expected 45 to 118 hours ) . the use of mdac in this newborn was safe and effective . we suggest that age should not pose a barrier to the use of mdac , when indicated . 
extrageniculate vision in hemianopic humans : saccade inhibition by signals in the blind field . the functional competence of extrageniculate visual pathways in hemianopic humans was demonstrated by showing that distractor signals in the blind half of the visual field could inhibit saccades toward targets in the intact visual field . this inhibitory effect of unseen distractors in patients occurred only when distractors were presented in the temporal half of the visual field , was specific to oculomotor responses , and did not occur in normal subjects . these results show that a peripheral visual signal activates retinotectal pathways to prime the oculomotor system and that these pathways can mediate orienting behavior in hemianopic humans . 
dementia : what to do . dementia is a syndrome of acquired intellectual deterioration that interferes with personal or social functioning . diagnosis requires historical information from the family and the mental status evaluation of orientation , recent memory , comprehension , calculation , and abstraction . most dementias create permanent , even progressive cognitive deterioration , yet there are some presentations for which remission exists . common reversible conditions include depression , drug toxicity , normal-pressure hydrocephalus , hypothyroidism , subdural hematoma , and neoplasm . screening laboratory studies consist of urinalysis , chemistry profile , blood count , thyroid survey , vitamin b12 and folate measurements , serology , chest roentgenogram , computerized tomographic scan of the head , electroencephalogram , and electrocardiogram . treatment focuses on potential reversibility , psychosocial issues , restoring deficits , and specific symptoms . 
hematoma of the optic nerve sheath after penetrating trauma . we have presented a case involving the diagnosis and management of optic nerve sheath hematoma . our patient 's positive outcome demonstrates the usefulness of megadose steroid therapy for acute optic nerve injury . 
relationship between duration of spinal cord ischemia and postoperative neurologic deficits in animals . twenty hogs were administered the following procedures before , during , and after overdistraction of the spinal column at t5-t6 : somatosensory ( sep ) and neurogenic-motor evoked potentials ( nmeps ) , hydrogen clearance procedures , stagnara wake-up tests , and aortic-injection of silastic plastic . to ensure that overdistraction was possible , a nonosseous , circumferential osteotomy was made at t5-t6 and distraction applied in one-ratchet increments using harrington instrumentation . overdistraction was maintained for 3 , 5 , 6 , 10 , 15 , 20 , 25 , or 30 minutes . results indicated that the duration of overdistraction , as represented by lost nmeps , was always correlated with the animal 's clinical status on wake-up test . if overdistraction was maintained more than 6 minutes , 100 % of the animals demonstrated positive wake-up results ; if maintained between 5 and 6 minutes , 75 % demonstrated positive wake-up results ; and if maintained less than 5 minutes , only 25 % demonstrated positive wake-up results . time-to-loss of the nmeps and seps , after onset of overdistraction , fell within two groups : slow and fast . in the slow group , it required slightly more than 20 minutes ( mean = 20.6 ) for the potentials to be lost , while in the fast-loss group data were lost in slightly less than 4 minutes ( mean = 3.6 ) . blood flow studies and inspection of the spinal cord revealed that the mechanism of action for the slow group appeared to be ischemia of the spinal cord that extended several centimeters above and below the site of maximum distraction . in the fast-loss group , it appeared that gross structural damage , with some very localized ischemia , were the mechanisms of actions influencing the integrity of the spinal cord . 
histopathologic correlation of magnetic resonance imaging signal patterns in a spinal cord injury model . magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) provides a noninvasive method of monitoring the pathologic response to spinal cord injury . specific mr signal intensity patterns appear to correlate with degrees of improvement in the neurologic status in spinal cord injury patients . histologic correlation of two types of mr signal intensity patterns are confirmed in the current study using a rat animal model . adult male sprague-dawley rats underwent spinal cord trauma at the midthoracic level using a weight-dropping technique . after laminectomy , 5 - and 10-gm brass weights were dropped from designated heights onto a 0.1-gm impounder placed on the exposed dura . animals allowed to regain consciousness demonstrated variable recovery of hind limb paraplegia . magnetic resonance images were obtained from 2 hours to 1 week after injury using a 2-tesla mri/spectrometer . sacrifice under anesthesia was performed by perfusive fixation ; spinal columns were excised en bloc , embedded , sectioned , and observed with the compound light microscope . magnetic resonance axial images obtained during the time sequence after injury demonstrate a distinct correlation between mr signal intensity patterns and the histologic appearance of the spinal cord . magnetic resonance imaging delineates the pathologic processes resulting from acute spinal cord injury and can be used to differentiate the type of injury and prognosis . 
cerebral cysticercosis . we studied 143 cases of cerebral cysticercosis over a 30-year period . in 46 there was hydrocephalus due to cysts obstructing the cerebrospinal fluid pathways , with signs of hydrocephalus and cerebellar dysfunction . in 97 there were cysts in the cerebral parenchyma , causing symptoms of intracranial hypertension alone in 22 cases , with additional neurological deficits in the remainder . before 1980 diagnosis was made by pneumoencephalography and ventriculography , but since then it has mostly been done by computed tomography . in 28 cases scanned , typical abnormalities were present in 25 . complement fixation tests were positive in serum in 74 % of cases and in cerebrospinal fluid in 73 % , and the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test was positive in serum in 90 % and in cerebrospinal fluid in 92 % . treatment of cases with hydrocephalus was by removal of the cysts at craniotomy , with placement of a shunt where necessary . intracranial hypertension caused by parenchymal cysts was treated with steroids and osmotic agents , if possible . in resistant cases subtemporal decompression was needed , unilateral in 55 cases and bilateral in eight . mortality in the acute stage was 11 % , with a further 20 % at follow up . 
intractable complex partial seizures associated with occult temporal lobe encephalocele and meningoangiomatosis : a case report . occult congenital temporal lobe encephalocele has rarely been reported in association with medically intractable complex partial seizures . the four previously reported cases were unsuspected preoperatively . we present the case of an 18-year-old woman with intractable complex partial seizures since age 13 . seizure onset was electrically localized to the right temporal lobe . preoperative neuroimaging studies revealed a middle fossa defect and inferior herniation of the right temporal lobe . pathologic examination of the resected encephalocele revealed prominent features of meningoangiomatosis . we believe this to be the first case of temporal lobe encephalocele and epilepsy to be diagnosed preoperatively , and the first case also to be associated with meningoangiomatosis . the relevant literature on meningoangiomatosis and on temporal lobe encephalocele as a cause of epilepsy is reviewed . 
cavernous-carotid thrombosis and ocular motor paresis a 64-year-old man presented with the acute onset of unilateral blindness and ipsilateral ocular motor paresis . occlusion of the central retinal artery associated with thrombosis of the internal carotid artery in the cavernous sinus was demonstrated by angiography and magnetic resonance imaging . cases of carotid thrombosis associated with ipsilateral ocular motor paresis are rare . the pathophysiology of intracavernous carotid thrombosis is discussed in connection with blood supply of the cranial nerves in the cavernous sinus . 
value of magnetic resonance imaging in spontaneous extradural spinal hematoma due to vascular malformation : case report . a case of spinal cord compression due to spontaneous extradural spinal hematoma is reported . a spinal arteriovenous malformation was suspected on the basis of magnetic resonance imaging . early surgical exploration allowed a complete neurological recovery . the vascular malformation was histopathologically confirmed . the role of magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of acute spinal cord compression syndromes is stressed . 
naloxone and spinal fluid drainage as adjuncts in the surgical treatment of thoracoabdominal and thoracic aneurysms . forty-seven patients who were treated for thoracoabdominal or thoracic aneurysms over a 5 1/2 - year period were analyzed for neurologic deficit risk . patients were divided into two groups for analysis . twenty-four patients , who were treated from january 1984 to december 1986 , did not undergo spinal fluid drainage or naloxone administration ( group a ) . twenty-three patients , who were treated from january 1987 to august 1989 , had spinal fluid drainage ( group b ) ; 12 patients in this group also received naloxone as an intravenous drip at 1 microgram/kg/hr for 48 hours after surgery . permanent neurologic deficits occurred in seven ( 29 % ) group a patients but in only one ( 4 % ) group b patient , who did not receive naloxone ( p less than 0.03 ) . the first two group b patients to receive naloxone showed complete reversal of neurologic deficits on waking from anesthesia . this significant reduction in neurologic deficit was associated with an increased 1-year survival rate ( 72 % in group a , 91 % in group b ) . we conclude that the use of naloxone and spinal fluid drainage reduces the incidence of neurologic deficit that is associated with repair of thoracoabdominal and thoracic aortic aneurysms . this reduction in neurologic deficit is associated with improved survival in the long term . the observed reversal of postoperative neurologic deficits with naloxone implicates opiates as a major factor in the pathophysiology of spinal cord ischemia . 
stroke and its modification in parkinson 's disease . previous studies have not agreed on the incidence of ischemic stroke in persons with parkinson 's disease . there are epidemiologic and neurochemical facets of parkinson 's disease that might confer some benefit or protection against ischemic stroke . we used a case-control method to determine the lifetime history of ischemic stroke in 200 patients with parkinson 's disease and 200 controls of a similar age range . analysis was also carried out for myocardial infarction as a marker of generalized atherosclerotic disease and for stroke risk factors . the cumulative incidence of ischemic stroke was significantly less in the patients with parkinson 's disease than in the controls , as was the cumulative incidence of myocardial infarction . among risk factors , significantly fewer patients with parkinson 's disease used tobacco than controls . the decreased incidence of ischemic stroke in the patients with parkinson 's disease appears to be related to their less severe generalized atherosclerosis , possibly due to their lower incidence of tobacco use . in view of the known potential for dopamine to exacerbate experimental ischemic tissue damage , the possibility that the dopamine deficiency in the central nervous system of persons with parkinson 's disease confers an additional specific protective benefit against ischemic stroke can not be excluded and requires further study . 
acute and long-term changes in serum lipids after acute stroke . we studied serum lipid profiles in 171 patients less than or equal to 48 hours after the onset of acute stroke and 3 months later . the 83 patients suffering cerebral infarction had significantly higher serum concentrations of total cholesterol , low density lipoprotein-cholesterol , and apolipoprotein b and significantly lower serum concentrations of triglycerides and lipoprotein ( a ) less than or equal to 48 hours after ictus than 3 months later . the lipid profiles of the 53 patients suffering lacunar infarction were similar on both occasions , the only significant differences being higher total cholesterol and low density lipoprotein-cholesterol concentrations less than or equal to 48 hours after ictus . no significant changes were observed among the 35 patients suffering cerebral hemorrhage apart from a significantly higher concentration of high density lipoprotein3-cholesterol less than or equal to 48 hours after ictus . our study , with many patients classified according to stroke subtype , gives results different from those of previous studies with much fewer patients . we conclude that in studies of serum lipid and lipoprotein concentrations as risk factors for cerebral infarction , comparing values obtained less than or equal to 48 hours after admission with control values may incorrectly identify certain lipid fractions as risk factors . 
risk factors for white matter changes detected by magnetic resonance imaging in the elderly . we found increased age ( p = 0.001 ) and history or evidence of stroke ( p = 0.016 ) to be significant independent multivariate predictors of the presence and severity of leukoencephalopathy on magnetic resonance imaging brain scans in a mixed population of 35 elderly psychiatric patients and 25 neurologically healthy elderly volunteers . these results suggest that subcortical ischemia , as well as age-related changes that may not be vascular in origin , contribute to the emergence of periventricular and other deep white matter hyperintensities that are commonly seen on the magnetic resonance imaging brain scans of older adults . 
evidence for platelet-activating factor as a novel mediator in experimental stroke in rabbits . platelet-activating factor is a potent mediator of inflammation , which has untoward effects on cerebrovascular and neural elements . while several investigators have reported attenuation of ischemic damage after treatment with antagonists of platelet-activating factor , no study has proved endogenous production of platelet-activating factor in ischemia of the central nervous system . we hypothesized that endogenous production of platelet-activating factor participates in the early pathologic manifestations of deteriorating stroke . in 12 rabbits , we found tissue levels of platelet-activating factor measured by the release of serotonin from washed platelets to be elevated by approximately 20-fold in spinal cord injured by 25 minutes of ischemia and 2 hours of reperfusion ( 2.80 + / - 0.98 ng/g ) compared with that in normal spinal cord ( 0.15 + / - 0.06 ng/g , p less than 0.01 ) . given during ischemia to seven rabbits , 10 mg/kg i.p. of a highly selective and potent antagonist of platelet-activating factor ( bn 50739 ) accentuated the early postischemic hyperemia and prevented the delayed hypoperfusion measured by on-line laser-doppler flowmetry ( -35 + / - 7 % of baseline [ n = 7 ] without versus 33 + / - 14 % with treatment , p less than 0.01 ) and the edema formation measured as the increase in tissue water content ( 4.4 + / - 0.7 % without [ n = 6 ] versus 2.1 + / - 0.6 % with [ n = 7 ] treatment , p less than 0.05 ) after 2 hours of reperfusion . this neurochemical and pharmacologic evidence emphasizes a new perspective of ischemia-induced phospholipid degradation and suggests an important role for platelet-activating factor in the early manifestations of stroke . 
beneficial effect of 1,3-butanediol on cerebral energy metabolism and edema following brain embolization in rats . we assessed the effect of 1,3-butanediol on cerebral energy metabolism and edema after inducing multifocal brain infarcts in 108 rats by the intracarotid injection of 50-microns carbonized microspheres . an ethanol dimer that induces systemic ketosis , 25 mmol/kg i.p. butanediol was injected every 3 hours to produce a sustained increase in the plasma level of beta-hydroxybutyrate . treatment significantly attenuated ischemia-induced metabolic changes by increasing the concentrations of phosphocreatine , adenosine triphosphate , and glycogen and by reducing the concentrations of pyruvate and lactate . lactate concentration 2 , 6 , and 12 hours after embolization decreased by 13 % , 44 % , and 46 % , respectively . brain water content increased from 78.63 % in six unembolized rats to 80.93 % in 12 saline-treated and 79.57 % in seven butanediol-treated rats 12 hours after embolization . ( p less than 0.05 ) . the decrease in water content was associated with significant decreases in the concentrations of sodium and chloride . the antiedema effect of butanediol could not be explained by an osmotic mechanism since equimolar doses of urea or ethanol were ineffective . our results support the hypothesis that the beneficial effect of butanediol is mediated through cerebral utilization of ketone bodies arising from butanediol metabolism , reducing the rate of glycolysis and the deleterious accumulation of lactic acid during ischemia . 
retinal infarction during sleep and wakefulness . brain and retinal infarctions during sleep have been attributed to focal hypoperfusion caused by systemic hypotension combined with underlying arterial stenosis , rather than to embolism . because some retinal emboli may be visualized on ophthalmoscopy , we studied 24 consecutive patients ( 18 men and six women ) aged 26-78 ( mean 58 ) years with recent retinal infarction and determined whether the infarction had occurred during sleep or wakefulness . all patients underwent dilated ophthalmoscopy and a carotid artery study ( arteriography in 20 , duplex ultrasound in the remaining four ) , and 12 had echocardiography . retinal infarction occurred during sleep at an unexpectedly rate ( 14 of 24 observed compared with eight of 24 expected , p = 0.02 ) . retinal cholesterol emboli were seen in one half of the patients regardless of whether the retinal infarction had occurred during sleep or wakefulness . carotid artery disease was found in seven of the 14 patients in whom infarction had occurred during sleep and in eight of the 10 patients in whom infarction had occurred during wakefulness ( p = 0.21 ) . cerebrovascular occlusive disease was not found in the five patients aged less than 50 years . our findings suggest that embolism is a common mechanism of retinal infarction during sleep or wakefulness , that in patients aged greater than 50 years extracranial carotid artery disease is a common source of retinal emboli , and that the retina may be especially susceptible to infarction during sleep . 
etiologic importance of the intimal flap of the external carotid artery in the development of postcarotid endarterectomy stroke . a technically unsatisfactory end point ( transition from the removed diseased plaque to normal distal intima ) leading to an intimal flap of the external carotid artery has been identified as a source of perioperative stroke . the mechanism involves thrombus formation with retrograde propagation of the thrombus and subsequent embolization of the internal carotid artery . this report describes three cases illustrating this mechanism and methods of identification and correction . this mechanism of postoperative stroke adds further justification for the routine use of intraoperative surveillance studies to document the technical result of endarterectomy involving the internal and external carotid arteries . when an unsatisfactory end point is identified in the external carotid artery , it should be corrected with the same sense of concern as a similar finding in the internal carotid artery . 
transitional cell carcinomatous meningitis after m-vac ( methotrexate , vinblastine , doxorubicin , and cisplatin ) chemotherapy . the m-vac ( methotrexate , vinblastine , doxorubicin , and cisplatin ) regimen has been utilized at our two institutions to treat 17 patients with advanced stage transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder . we report 2 cases of carcinomatous meningitis resulting from metastatic transitional cell carcinoma which occurred in patients treated with m-vac . review of the literature suggests that our experience with central nervous system metastases is not unique , and that treatment of advanced stage transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder with m-vac may enhance the incidence of meningeal metastases . carcinomatous meningitis , although rare , is a rapidly fatal manifestation of metastatic transitional cell carcinoma if left untreated . however , prompt diagnosis and early aggressive therapy may result in palliation and stabilization of neurologic status . we review the pathophysiology , diagnosis , and treatment of transitional cell carcinomatous meningitis . 
neurologic complications of cardiac transplantation . between 1984 and 1989 , orthotopic cardiac transplantations were done in 90 patients from 10 to 65 years of age for end-stage , refractory congestive cardiomyopathy . two patients had had ischemic strokes 5 months and 18 years , respectively , before transplantation . six patients ( 7 % ) suffered acute neurologic events perioperatively . three patients suffered cerebral infarctions . in 1 case this occurred 10 days before transplantation -- probably as a result of systemic hypoperfusion -- with the placement of ventricular assist devices . two others suffered infarctions 5 and 21 days , respectively , after transplantation , each of probable embolic origin . two patients had an acute intracerebral hemorrhage 21 and 36 days , respectively , after transplantation ; both were located within the basal ganglia and subcortical regions . both patients had moderate to severe hypertension , and in 1 , renal failure and a coagulopathy developed before hemorrhage . tremor , seizures , and an altered level of consciousness developed in 1 patient as an apparent toxic reaction to cyclosporine treatment . only 1 patient died as a result of the neurologic complication -- of an acute intracerebral hemorrhage . three patients recovered fully , 2 partially . only the case of drug toxicity could be directly attributed to the transplantation procedure itself . we conclude that the risk of an acute neurologic insult with orthotopic cardiac transplantation is low but may result from drug toxicity , cerebral ischemia , or hemorrhagic mechanisms . 
tryptophan-induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome eight patients who became ill while taking tryptophan had myalgia , fatigue , rash , fever , edema , alopecia , arthralgias , diminished joint motion , skin tightening , muscle cramping , and distal paresthesias . three had shortness of breath , and one had pulmonary hypertension . laboratory abnormalities included peripheral eosinophilia , leukocytosis , thrombocytosis , raised erythrocyte sedimentation rate , and elevated serum levels of aldolase , lactate dehydrogenase , and liver enzymes . of 4 chest radiographs , 3 were abnormal . of 5 skin and muscle biopsies , 4 showed sclerosis or mixed inflammatory cell infiltration of the dermis , subcutis , and fascia . eosinophils were often present , but vasculitis was absent . muscle inflammation was minimal . we conclude that the " eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome " is related to the ingestion of tryptophan and that abnormalities in the secretion of lymphokines may be important in its pathogenesis . 
does paramedic-base hospital contact result in beneficial deviations from standard prehospital protocols ? we reviewed written and audio records of paramedic-base hospital radio contact to determine whether care differed from that suggested in standard prehospital care protocols . records of all 659 contacts for seizure , syncope , abdominal pain , or altered mental state during 1987 ( 28.4 % of all contacts ) were scored for the use of standard therapies ( such as intravenous access , oxygen , naloxone hydrochloride ) and unanticipated therapies ( intubation , nitroglycerin ) . cases that involved unanticipated treatments were reviewed to determine whether they could have been prospectively identified by simple clinical findings . standard therapies were used in the majority of patients . unanticipated therapies were administered to 13 patients , all of whom had abnormal vital signs , diaphoresis , respiratory distress , or a second prominent symptom . data suggest that protocols could replace radio contact for most patients and that the few who might benefit from radio contact can be easily identified . a 90 % reduction in radio contacts in los angeles county could save $ 3 million each year . 
analysis of programmed stimulation methods in the evaluation of ventricular arrhythmias in patients 20 years old and younger . the purpose of this study was to systematically evaluate programmed ventricular stimulation in patients less than 21 years of age undergoing electrophysiologic testing . a standardized protocol was applied in 55 consecutive patients ( mean age 14 years ) with the following clinical presentations : sustained ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) ( n = 17 ) ; ventricular fibrillation ( vf ) ( n = 7 ) ; syncope with heart disease ( n = 10 ) ; nonsustained vt ( n = 6 ) ; and syncope with an ostensibly normal heart ( n = 15 ) . the stimulation protocol consisted of 1 and 2 ventricular extrastimuli during sinus rhythm , followed by 1 to 4 ( s2 , s3 , s4 , s5 ) extrastimuli during pacing at 2 ventricular sites . of the 17 patients with sustained vt , 12 had induction of the arrhythmia ( sensitivity = 71 % ) . overall , 18 of 55 patients had inducible sustained vt , with this response significantly enhanced by use of s4 or s5 protocols ( p = 0.02 ) . although no syncope patients with an ostensibly normal heart had inducible sustained vt , 7 had polymorphic nonsustained vt in response to ventricular stimulation . the mean number of extra-stimuli preceding the induction of nonsustained or sustained vt or vf did not differ . the induction of vf in 5 cases during this study was preceded in each case by extrastimuli intervals less than or equal to 190 ms. thus , data indicate that aggressive stimulation protocols appear to be required for induction of sustained vt in most young patients , nonsustained polymorphic vt as a response to aggressive programmed stimulation is of uncertain significance , and that coupling intervals less than or equal to 190 ms may correlate with the induction of vf . 
aortic calcified plaques and cardiovascular disease ( the framingham study ) . the relation between the presence of calcified plaques in the thoracic aorta , as detected on chest x-rays , and the development of cardiovascular disease is examined during 12 years of follow-up of the framingham cohort ( n = 5,209 ) . the prevalence of aortic calcified plaques approximately doubled with each decade of age , with only a trivial male predominance . its presence was associated with a twofold increase in risk of cardiovascular death in men and women younger than age 65 , even after other risk factors were taken into account . similar increases in risk were found for coronary artery disease , stroke and intermittent claudication among middle-aged women . in middle-aged men these risks were less marked . the predictive value of aortic calcified plaques generally diminished with age . risk of sudden coronary death in men with calcified plaques in the thoracic aorta ranged from a sevenfold increase at age 35 to no excess risk at age 70 years . these results support the view that atherosclerosis is a generalized process . the finding of aortic calcified plaques in a relatively young subject on a routine chest x-ray should be regarded as a sign for potential development of clinically manifest atherosclerotic disease in the cardiac , cerebral and peripheral arterial circulation . 
atlanto-occipital disarticulation . accident characteristics . a retrospective study of cases of atlanto-occipital disarticulation was conducted to describe incident characteristics : 24 cases were identified , including nine motor vehicle drivers , two passengers , seven pedestrians , and five motorcyclists ; one other person had fallen four stories . the highest rates were found among motorcyclists and pedestrians . atlanto-occipital disarticulations occur in high-energy impacts and collisions and are associated with aortic laceration in 25 % and basilar skull fracture in 21 % of such cases . current restraint systems and motorcycle helmets do not appear to prevent this generally rapidly fatal injury . 
accidental death from a black-powder rifle breech plug . authentic black-powder muzzle-loader weapons and replicas are used today primarily for hunting game such as deer and hogs . the following is a case presentation of accidental death from cerebral trauma caused by a .45 - caliber black-powder-rifle breech plug implanting in the victim 's brain . 
frequency of three hex a mutant alleles among jewish and non-jewish carriers identified in a tay-sachs screening program . mutations in the hex a gene , encoding the alpha-subunit of beta-hexosaminidase a ( hex a ) , are the cause of tay-sachs disease as well as of juvenile , chronic , and adult gm2 gangliosidoses . we have examined the distribution of three mutations -- a 4-nucleotide insertion in exon 11 , a g ---- c transversion at a 5 ' splice site in intron 12 , and a 269gly ---- ser amino acid substitution in exon 7 -- among individuals enzymatically diagnosed as carriers of hex a deficiency . mutation analysis included polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) amplification of the relevant regions of genomic dna , followed by allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization ; another test for heterozygosity of the exon 11 insertion was based on the formation of heteroduplex pcr fragments of low electrophoretic mobility . the percentage distribution of the exon 11 , intron 12 , exon 7 , and unidentified mutant alleles was 73:15:4:8 among 156 jewish carriers of hex a deficiency and 16:0:3:81 among 51 non-jewish carriers . regardless of the mutation , the ancestral origin of the jewish carriers was primarily eastern and ( somewhat less often ) central europe , whereas for the non-jewish carriers it was western europe . because a twelfth of the jewish carriers and four-fifths of the non-jewish carriers of hex a deficiency had mutant alleles other than the three common ones tested , enzyme-based tests can not be replaced by dna-based tests at the present time . however , dna-based tests for two-carrier couples could identify those at risk for the chronic/adult gm2 gangliosidoses rather than for infantile tay-sachs disease . 
more than one mutant allele causes infantile tay-sachs disease in french-canadians . two tay-sachs disease ( tsd ) patients of french-canadian origin were shown by myerowitz and hogikyan to be homozygous for a 7.6-kb deletion mutation at the 5 ' end of the hexosaminidase a alpha-subunit gene . in order to determine whether all french-canadian tsd patients were homozygotes for the deletion allele and to assess the geographic origins of tsd in this population , we ascertained 12 tsd families of french-canadian origin and screened for occurrence of mutations associated with infantile tsd . dna samples were obtained from 12 french-canadian tsd families . samples were analyzed using polymerase-chain-reaction ( pcr ) amplification followed by hybridization to allele-specific oligonucleotides ( aso ) or by restriction analysis of pcr products . in some cases southern analysis of genomic dna was performed . eighteen of the 22 independently segregating mutant chromosomes in this sample carried the 7.6-kb deletion mutation at the 5 ' end of the gene . one chromosome carried the 4-nucleotide insertion in exon 11 ( a " jewish " mutation ) . in this population no individuals were detected who had the substitution at the splice junction of exon 12 previously identified in ashkenazi jews . one chromosome carried an undescribed b1 mutation ; this allele came from a parent of non-french-canadian origin . patients in three families carried tsd alleles different from any of the above mutations . the 5 ' deletion mutation clusters in persons originating in southeastern quebec ( gaspe ) and adjacent counties of northern new brunswick . 
laparoscopic ventrosuspensions . a review of 72 cases . laparoscopic ventrosuspension is simple to perform after diagnostic laparoscopy . serious postoperative complication is unlikely . however , patient follow-up over 6 months has not confirmed the usefulness of laparoscopic ventrosuspension in the management of deep dyspareunia or pelvic pain in association with a retroverted uterus . the success rate of laparoscopic ventrosuspension at 6 months varies from 18.6 % to 46.5 % . the prior use of a hodge pessary does not predict the success of laparoscopic ventrosuspension . 
magnetic resonance imaging of radiation optic neuropathy . three patients with delayed radiation optic neuropathy after radiation therapy for parasellar neoplasms underwent magnetic resonance imaging . the affected optic nerves and chiasms showed enlargement and focal gadopentetate dimeglumine enhancement . the magnetic resonance imaging technique effectively detected and defined anterior visual pathway changes of radionecrosis and excluded the clinical possibility of visual loss because of tumor recurrence . 
auditory hallucinations and smaller superior temporal gyral volume in schizophrenia . recent neuropathologic investigations in schizophrenia report smaller volume of medial temporal lobe structures . these findings are confirmed by preliminary magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) studies . direct stimulation of lateral temporal lobe structures in the region of the superior temporal gyrus provokes hallucinations . the authors ' mri study of young schizophrenic patients demonstrates smaller volume of the superior temporal gyrus ( an auditory association area ) and of the left amygdala . smaller size of the left superior temporal gyrus and left amygdala is not accounted for by smaller size of the overall brain or temporal lobe . shrinkage of the left superior temporal gyrus is strongly and selectively correlated with severity of auditory hallucinations . 
a discriminant validity study of negative symptoms with a special focus on depression and antipsychotic medication . if the construct validity of the negative symptom syndrome is to be established , the conceptual and operational overlap between negative symptoms and other syndromes such as depression and the effects of medication must be explained . the author assessed 26 patients with schizophrenia and 21 patients without schizophrenia , most of whom had depression , at the end of an average 2-week drug washout period and after approximately 2 months of psychotropic medication administration . negative symptoms were remarkably consistent in patients with schizophrenia despite pharmacological intervention . in contrast , the patients without schizophrenia manifested significant decreases in negative symptoms . 
depression in dementia of the alzheimer type and in multi-infarct dementia . the authors used the hamilton rating scale for depression and a rating of depressed mood to investigate the prevalence of depression in 55 patients with alzheimer 's disease , 37 patients with multi-infarct dementia , and 30 nondemented comparison subjects . the prevalence of depressed mood depended on the severity of dementia as measured by the mini-mental state examination and was significantly lower among patients in more severe stages of alzheimer 's disease but not among patients with severe multi-infarct dementia . 
panic disorder and cardiovascular/cerebrovascular problems : results from a community survey . follow-up studies of psychiatric patients with panic disorder have shown an abnormally high mortality rate in men due to cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events . the authors report that in the new haven portion of the epidemiologic catchment area program the risk for stroke in persons with lifetime diagnoses of panic disorder was over twice that in persons with other psychiatric disorders or no psychiatric disorder . after adjustments for demographic differences between groups , the risk was even higher . while the results should be interpreted cautiously because of the small sample and absence of medical examinations , these findings are consistent with clinical studies showing an association between panic disorder and cardiovascular/cerebrovascular events . 
nitrous oxide does not alter infarct volume in rats undergoing reversible middle cerebral artery occlusion . this experiment was designed to determine if nitrous oxide alters neurologic and pathologic outcome from temporary focal cerebral ischemia in spontaneously hypertensive rats deeply anesthetized with a barbiturate . two groups of rats were given intravenous methohexital such that a stable eeg pattern of burst suppression was achieved . in one group of rats ( n = 11 ) , the lungs were mechanically ventilated with 70 % n2o/30 % o2 , and in the other group ( n = 10 ) , ventilation was done with 70 % nitrogen/30 % o2 . the middle cerebral artery was then occluded for 2 h , during which time mean arterial pressure , blood gases , hematocrit , plasma glucose , and head temperature were held constant between groups . the total doses of methohexital administered were similar in both groups as were the plasma methohexital concentrations immediately prior to onset of ischemia . after reperfusion of the middle cerebral artery , the animals were allowed to awaken . neurologic evaluations were performed prior to ischemia and at 24 and 96 h postischemia . cerebral infarct volume was measured at 96 h postischemia using triphenyl tetrazolium chloride staining and computer imaging techniques . there were no neurologic differences between the n2o and nitrogen groups at any experimental interval although both groups exhibited deficits at both 24 and 96 h postischemia relative to preischemic values . the two groups also had nearly identical cerebral infarct volumes ( n2o = 231 + / - 97 mm3 ; nitrogen = 226 + / - 75 mm3 ; mean + / - sd ) . 
resistance to d-tubocurarine in lower motor neuron injury is related to increased acetylcholine receptors at the neuromuscular junction the hypothesis that lower motor neuron injury , with its associated proliferation of acetylcholine receptors ( achr ) , induces resistance to the neuromuscular effects of d-tubocurarine ( dtc ) was tested in the rat . the left gastrocnemius was denervated by a 75-80 % lesion of the sciatic nerve . the effective dose for 95 % twitch depression ( ed95 ) was studied in the denervated gastrocnemius and compared to the contralateral undenervated and sham-injured ( control ) gastrocnemius muscles approximately 2 weeks after injury . the achr number was quantitated by the specific ligand 125i-alpha-bungarotoxin ( 125i-alpha-bt ) . plasma dtc concentrations , measured by high-performance liquid chromatography ( hplc ) , were correlated to twitch tension during spontaneous recovery from neuromuscular blockade in the denervated animal . the ed95 ( mean + / - se ) of dtc for the denervated leg was significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) higher ( 0.26 + / - 0.06 mg.kg-1 ) than contralateral ( 0.16 + / - 0.03 ) and sham-operated left ( 0.13 + / - 0.03 ) legs . the twitch tension recovered to 50 % of control twitch height at significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) higher plasma dtc concentrations in the denervated ( 0.78 micrograms.ml-1 ) compared to contralateral ( 0.24 micrograms.ml-1 ) limb . the achr number was significantly increased in the denervated limb ( 1041 + / - 96 fmol.mg protein-1 ) compared to contralateral right ( 109 + / - 4 ) and control left limb ( 113 + / - 11 ) . there was a significant ( p less than 0.05 ) positive correlation ( r2 = 0.73 ) between ed95 and achr number ; that is , 73 % of the variability in ed95 could be explained by changes in achr . this study , therefore , confirms the hypothesis that proliferation of achr after nerve denervation results in resistance to the neuromuscular effects of dtc . 
a comparative trial of three agents in the treatment of acute migraine headache . study objectives : a study was conducted to evaluate the relative efficacy of three non-narcotic agents , chloropromazine , lidocaine , and dihydroergotamine , in the treatment of migraine headache in an emergency department setting . design : the trial was randomized and single blinded . setting : the study was conducted in two university-affiliated eds . type of participants : all patients had an isolated diagnosis of common or classic migraine . interventions : patients were pretreated with 500 ml ( iv ) normal saline before randomization . study drugs as administered were dihydroergotamine 1 mg iv repeated after 30 minutes if the initial response was inadequate ; lidocaine 50 mg iv at 20-minute intervals to a maximum total dose of 150 mg as required ; or chloropromazine 12.5 mg iv repeated at 20-minute intervals to a total maximum dose of 37.5 mg as required . patients were asked to grade headache severity on a ten-point scale before and one hour after the initiation of therapy . follow-up by phone was sought the following day . measurements and main results : of 76 patients completing the trial , 24 were randomized to receive chloropromazine , 26 to receive dihydroergotamine , and 26 to receive lidocaine . reduction in mean headache intensity was significantly better among those treated with chloropromazine ( p less than .005 ) . persistent headache relief was experienced by 16 of the chloropromazine-treated patients ( 88.9 % ) contacted at 12 to 24 hours follow-up compared with ten of the dihydroergotamine-treated patients ( 52.6 % ) and five of the lidocaine-treated group ( 29.4 % ) . conclusion : the relative effectiveness of these three antimigraine therapies appears to favor chloropromazine in measures of headache relief , incidence of headache rebound , and patient satisfaction with therapy . 
a prospective , double-blind study of metoclopramide hydrochloride for the control of migraine in the emergency department study objective : to determine the effectiveness of iv metoclopramide as sole therapy for relieving the pain of acute migraine in the emergency department . design : prospective study . fifty patients were divided randomly into subjects and placebo controls with blinding of the treating physician and the patient . participants : patients presenting to the ed with migraine requiring parenteral treatment . interventions : subjects received 10 mg iv metoclopramide and controls received iv normal saline ; patient assessment of relief was followed by means of a numerical scale . measurements and main results : sixty-seven percent of subjects compared with 19 % of controls had effective pain relief within one hour ( p less than .001 ) . subjects achieved mean relief scores of 2.46 compared with 1.69 for controls ( p less than .02 ) . no significant side effects were observed . conclusion : iv metoclopramide as a single agent is effective and safe therapy for migraine in the ed . 
brain water content , brain blood volume , blood chemistry , and pathology in a model of cerebral edema . study objectives : the objective was to correlate regional changes during brain water content with alterations in blood chemistry and cerebral pathology during hypo-osmotic edema . participants : sprague-dawley male adult rats were used in these studies . design : animals were block-randomized to receive either an intraperitoneal distilled water injection equivalent to 5 % or 15 % of their body weight or no injection ( controls ) . rats were sacrificed 15 or 60 minutes after water injection or at an equivalent time for controls . interventions : no interventions were performed . measurements and main results : water content of cerebral cortical gray and white matter was calculated from measurements of tissue specific gravity . blood plasma osmolality and sodium and potassium concentrations were determined at various times after water injection . an index of blood-brain barrier permeability was obtained by measuring brain red blood cell and plasma volumes . a qualitative assessment of edema was made from light and electron micrographs of the cerebral cortex . we found that water injection produced a dose-dependent decrease in plasma osmolality and sodium concentration within 15 minutes . cortical water content was unchanged after this period . an influx of water into cerebral gray , and , less readily , into cerebral white matter occurred during the next 15 minutes . whole blood specific gravity and brain blood content were unchanged and thus did not confound the measurement of cerebral water content . hematocrit was increased 60 minutes after a 15 % water injection . the blood-brain barrier remained intact throughout this period . microscopy revealed astrocytic swelling with slight extracellular fluid accumulation 60 minutes after the water injection . conclusions : homeostatic mechanisms in the cerebral cortex can maintain constant water content for at least 15 minutes during maintained intravascular hypo-osmolality . fluid that subsequently moves into the tissue primarily enters an intracellular compartment . this model will be useful in investigating physiological mechanisms of brain water regulation and the pathogenesis of brain edema , a common clinical entity in emergency conditions . 
spectral electroretinography in thioridazine toxicity . in three patients with thioridazine toxicity , the electroretinogram ( erg ) to red light was found to be below the average normal range . a significant increase in its amplitude appeared with cessation of therapy in two cases . a further deterioration of the erg amplitude to all stimulus conditions ( white , blue , and red lights ) occurred when the dose of the medication was increased in the third patient . 
a case of unilateral posterior ischemic optic neuropathy after radical neck dissection . we present a case of unilateral posterior ischemic optic neuropathy after bilateral radical neck dissection . etiologic factors are discussed . 
auditory brain stem implant : effect of tumor size and preoperative hearing level on function . the auditory brain stem implant is an investigational device designed to provide hearing sensations to patients without functioning auditory nerves . we analyzed results from 17 implants in 15 patients to determine if tumor size or preoperative hearing level might be related to proper device function . we found no significant correlation between preoperative hearing level or tumor size and device function . we also found no significant correlation between preoperative hearing level and tumor size in these 15 patients . 
cholinergic deficiency and frontal dysfunction in parkinson 's disease . to investigate the influence of central cholinergic deficit on cognitive function in parkinson 's disease ( pd ) , we compared the neuropsychological performance of a group of 20 patients who were treated with anticholinergic drugs ( mean daily dose , 10.2 mg ) with that of a group of 20 patients who received no anticholinergics . the two groups were matched for all the variables of parkinsonism and levodopa therapy . at the dose used , there was no significant difference between the two groups of patients for intellectual , visuospatial , instrumental , and memory function . in contrast , in the group that received anticholinergics severe impairment was observed on tests believed to assess frontal lobe function . these results suggest that the lesion of the ascending cholinergic neurons , which has been demonstrated post mortem in pd , may play a role in the subcorticofrontal behavioral impairment of this disease . 
posthypoxic glucose supplement reduces hypoxic-ischemic brain damage in the neonatal rat . we evaluated the effect of posthypoxic glucose supplement in a neonatal hypoxic-ischemic animal model . seven-day-old rats underwent bilateral ligation of the carotid arteries , followed by exposure to an 8 % oxygen atmosphere for 1 hour . the extent of hypoxic-ischemic brain damage was assessed histologically 72 hours later . glucose load immediately after the end of the hypoxic exposure reduced the volume of neocortical infarction to 37 % of the unsupplemented value , and attenuated ischemic damage in the striatum and the dentate gyrus . at the end of the hypoxic exposure , the brain level of glucose was 0.3 mmol/kg and the level of lactate 9 mmol/kg . glucose supplement produced a rapid rise in brain glucose level to 3 to 5 mmol/kg over the next 2 hours . lactate in both brain and plasma gradually fell toward the baseline level during the first hour of recovery . posthypoxic glucose supplement slightly retarded lactate restitution . at any period of this neonatal model , brain lactate levels did not exceed the toxic level , which is postulated to be responsible for cerebral infarction in adult ischemic models . these results illustrate the important role of glucose in the development of neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy and the fact that full cortical infarction can develop even if brain lactate levels are low . 
relation of hyperglycemia early in ischemic brain infarction to cerebral anatomy , metabolism , and clinical outcome . we studied the relation of serum glucose level measured in the first 12 hours of symptoms to the clinical findings , results of computed tomography ( ct ) , and patterns of cerebral metabolism in 39 patients who had acute ischemic cerebral infarction . structural damage was assessed by ct . metabolic disruption was assessed using 18f-fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography ( pet ) . median initial serum glucose concentration was 155 mg/dl ( 6.7 mm ) . clinical recovery was significantly poorer in patients with initial serum glucose levels higher than the median ( p less than 0.05 , chi square ) . pet tended to show normal results or minor abnormalities in patients with initial glucose levels less than the median , as opposed to lobar or multilobe abnormalities in patients with levels that were higher than the median ( p less than 0.05 , kendall 's tau b ) . the severity of hypometabolism in the ischemic region , expressed as the percent asymmetry of local cerebral glucose metabolism between homologous brain regions , was greater in patients with initial glycemia concentrations higher than the median ( p less than 0.001 , t test ) . relationships of serum glucose level with metabolic derangement and structural damage , but not outcome , held true in patients without a history of diabetes mellitus . 
a clinical triad to diagnose paraneoplastic retinopathy . two elderly men developed photosensitivity and light-induced glare , transient visual symptoms , and progressive visual loss several months before small cell carcinoma of the lung was discovered . both patients had impaired visual acuity and color vision , ring scotomas , and attenuated retinal arteriole caliber . electroretinography demonstrated abnormal cone and rod-mediated responses . antiretinal antibodies were identified in their serum . their visual sensory function improved following therapy with immunosuppressive agents . the triad of photosensitivity , ring scotomatous visual field loss , and attenuated retinal arteriole caliber should alert one to a paraneoplastic disorder affecting the retina . 
soluble interleukin-2 receptors in cerebrospinal fluid from individuals with various neurological disorders . soluble interleukin-2 ( il-2r ) levels in the cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) were studied in infectious , inflammatory , degenerative , and neoplastic disorders to evaluate their usefulness as a marker for the presence of activated t cells , thus indicating an inflammatory process . csf from control subjects and patients with stationary , progressive , and treated multiple sclerosis ( ms ) ; aseptic meningitis ; lymphoid and nonlymphoid central nervous system ( cns ) tumors ; alzheimer 's disease , as well as serum from ms patients and control subjects were studied for levels of soluble il-2r . a significant increase in csf il-2r levels was observed in patients with ms , meningitis , and lymphoid cns tumors ; the ms group showed the highest values . csf from individuals with alzheimer 's disease and from patients with nonlymphoid tumors did not show significantly elevated values . serum il-2r levels were significantly higher in ms patients than in control subjects , but there was no significant correlation between individual serum and csf il-2r levels . this study suggests the presence of activated t-lymphocytes in the cns of patients with ms. 
ubiquitin immunoreactivity in kuru plaques in creutzfeldt-jakob disease . cerebellar kuru plaques in 2 cases of creutzfeldt-jakob disease were studied immunohistochemically . similar to cerebellar senile plaques in alzheimer 's disease , many kuru plaques contained ubiquitin-positive , tau-negative small granular elements , presumably representing dystrophic neurites . our results suggest that similar mechanisms are involved in neuritic changes in cerebellar plaques in creutzfeldt-jakob and alzheimer 's diseases despite differences of amyloid proteins in the plaques . 
middle cerebral artery strokes causing homonymous hemianopia : positron emission tomography . eight patients were evaluated with 18f-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography between 3 and 30 days after isolated stroke involving the middle cerebral artery territory that caused homonymous hemianopia . diffuse hypometabolism was present throughout the damaged cerebral hemisphere , even in cortical areas not obviously ischemic by clinical examination or neuro-imaging . glucose metabolism in primary and association visual cortex of the damaged hemisphere was decreased by more than 47 % ( p less than 0.01 ) . metabolism in the undamaged hemisphere was less profoundly affected , but significant decrements were found in calcarine ( 40 % ; p less than 0.01 ) and lateral occipital cortex ( 35 % ; p less than 0.05 ) . 
vasoactive peptide release in the extracerebral circulation of humans during migraine headache . the innervation of the cranial vessels by the trigeminal nerve , the trigeminovascular system , has recently been the subject of study in view of its possible role in the mediation of some aspects of migraine . since stimulation of the trigeminal ganglion in humans leads to facial pain and flushing and associated release of powerful neuropeptide vasodilator substances , their local release into the extracerebral circulation of humans was determined in patients who had either common or classic migraine . venous blood was sampled from both the external jugular and cubital fossa ipsilateral to the side of headache . plasma levels of neuropeptide y , vasoactive intestinal polypeptide , substance p , and calcitonin gene-related peptide were determined using sensitive radioimmunoassays for each peptide , and values for the cubital fossa and external jugular and a control population were compared . a substantial elevation of the calcitonin gene-related peptide level in the external jugular but not the cubital fossa blood was seen in both classic and common migraine . the increase seen in classic migraine was greater than that seen with common migraine . the other peptides measured were unaltered . this finding may have importance in the pathophysiology of migraine . 
richner-hanhart 's syndrome . electron microscopic study of the skin lesion . the plantar hyperkeratotic skin lesion in a case of richner-hanhart 's syndrome was investigated using ultrastructural examination . light microscopic examination showed remarkable hyperkeratosis and some aberrant keratinocytes with multiple nuclei . on ultrastructural examination , some abnormal structures were seen in the affected keratinocytes : aggregations of tonofilaments and intracytoplasmic inclusions . the inclusions were needle shaped and were considered to be " crystal ghosts , " presumably of tyrosine . the formation of tyrosine crystalline inclusions seems to be an important factor in the pathogenesis of the cutaneous lesions in richner-hanhart 's syndrome . 
magnetic resonance imaging in neurological disorders . to investigate the role of magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) in neurological disorders , 115 children were studied in two groups . group a ( 78 patients ) was studied by paired computed tomography and mri cranial scans . group b ( 37 patients ) was studied by paired computed tomography assisted myelography ( ctm ) and mri spinal scans . in group a , the scans were generally equivalent for supratentorial tumours and for investigating fits , hydrocephalus , benign intracranial hypertension , and cerebral atrophies , but mri scanning was superior for posterior fossa tumours and cysts . in group b , mri scans were superior for intramedullary spinal tumours , spinal dysraphic problems with tethering or syrinx , and were complementary to ctm in diastematomyelia . 
slow release carbamazepine in treatment of poorly controlled seizures . thirty three children with poorly controlled epilepsy , and six new patients , were treated with slow release carbamazepine . twelve of the former had a reduction in the number of seizures of more than half , and 10 had fewer side effects . three of the new patients stopped having seizures . variations in plasma concentrations between doses was significantly less when patients took the slow release preparation ( 22 % ) compared with the standard preparation ( 41 % ) . slow release carbamazepine may improve the conditions of children whose seizures are poorly controlled . 
the iris in williams syndrome . forty three children with williams syndrome and 124 control subjects had their eyes photographed . the photographs were examined by three ophthalmologists and four geneticists of varying experience . a stellate pattern was noted more often in the irides of patients with williams syndrome ( 51 % ) than in those of the control subjects ( 12 % ) , and was more difficult to detect , or was absent , in heavily pigmented irides . we conclude that the stellate pattern is of diagnostic importance , particularly if the pattern is carefully defined and the clinician is experienced . 
analysis of prognostic factors and clinicopathological staging of thymoma the prognostic value of four clinical variables ( age and sex of patients , association with myasthenia gravis , and clinical stage ) and histological type was analyzed in 83 consecutive patients with thymoma , histologically classified as cortical , medullary , and mixed . age , sex , and association with myasthenia gravis did not prove to represent significant prognostic factors ; clinical stage and histological type , on the contrary , had a highly significant prognostic value ( p less than 0.001 ) . a model of clinicopathological staging , based on both clinical stage and histological type , in which three major prognostic groups are considered is proposed . the degree of significance of this model is higher ( p less than 0.0001 ) than that of clinical stage and histological type considered individually ; its validity is further supported by the results of multivariate analysis according to the cox regression model ( p = 0.0001 ) . we think it represents a prognostically valuable approach to the problem of management of thymoma . 
intraoperative ultrasonic imaging of the ascending aorta in ischemic heart disease . in an attempt to locate any atherosclerotic lesion in the ascending aorta and to prevent embolization , intraoperative b-mode ultrasonography was performed in 100 patients with ischemic heart disease ( 31 women and 69 men ) . ultrasonography was carried out with a 10-mhz probe placed directly on the ascending aorta . ultrasonic imaging demonstrated an atherosclerotic lesion in the lower half of the aorta in 76 patients ( 76 % ) , a lesion in the upper half of the aorta in 89 patients ( 89 % ) , and a lesion at the orifice of the innominate artery in 99 patients ( 99 % ) . prospective palpation identified an atherosclerotic lesion in 12 ( 25 % ) of 48 patients . thoracic computed tomography in 79 patients showed calcification in the lower half of the aorta in 6 patients ( 7.6 % ) and in the upper half of the aorta in 11 ( 13.9 % ) . palpation and thoracic computed tomography underestimated the frequency of atherosclerotic lesions . intraoperative ultrasonography accurately identified atherosclerotic disease . this technique allows the surgeon to modify cannulation , aortic clamping , and operative technique to reduce the risk of perioperative stroke due to embolization of atherosclerotic debris from the ascending aorta . 
prevention of paraplegia during aortic operations . ischemic spinal cord injury after aortic cross-clamping may be produced by a steal phenomenon . the present study investigates this possibility by directly measuring the oxygen tension on the spinal cord surface in pigs . after simple clamping of the aorta , oxygen tension decreased significantly distal to the clamping site both after occlusion of the thoracic aorta at t3-4 ( group 1 ) and after occlusion of the abdominal aorta at l-1 ( group 2 ) . exclusion of the thoracic aorta by a second clamp at t-13 restored oxygen tension almost to the original level , whereas segmentation of the abdominal aorta up to s-1 hardly affected oxygen tension in the area of the artery of adamkiewicz in most of the animals . we conclude that after aortic cross-clamping , blood tends to drain away from the spinal cord rather than supplying it longitudinally . without knowledge of the position of the adamkiewicz artery in humans as well as of the competence of the collateral circulation in the excluded segment , it is necessary to develop a new strategy for repair of the aorta . we describe and discuss two surgical techniques for the prevention of paraplegia after aortic cross-clamping : the counterocclusion technique and the bypass fractionated technique . 
diagnostic imaging and surgical treatment of dumbbell tumors of the mediastinum . we describe the diagnostic procedures and surgical approaches employed in 5 patients with dumbbell tumors of the mediastinum . magnetic resonance imaging accurately described the existence and longitudinal extension of the intraspinal component of the tumor and assisted in choosing the appropriate surgical approach . both the intrathoracic and intraspinal components of the tumor were resected at one time by a thoracic and neurosurgical team . we employed the grillo technique three times and a separate laminectomy and thoracotomy approach . magnetic resonance imaging proved the most useful diagnostic technique for suspected dumbbell mediastinal tumors . in our experience , the extended thoracotomy proposed by grillo and co-workers worked well for small tumors involving only one foramen in which the intraspinal extension was limited to 2 to 3 cm , and when no more than two laminectomies were required . on the other hand , thoracotomy and a longitudinal paravertebral incision are preferable for larger tumors ( more than 4 cm ) involving more than one foramen in which the intraspinal extension exceeds 2 to 3 cm , for tumors requiring multiple laminectomy , and when bony infiltration is present . 
coexisting thymic carcinoid tumor and thymoma . thymic carcinoid tumors are unusual neoplasms that are different from thymomas . we report a case of coexisting thymic carcinoid tumor and thymoma associated with myasthenia gravis . the clinicopathological findings are discussed with a review of the literature . 
electroencephalography should not be routine in the evaluation of syncope in adults we reviewed the reports of all electroencephalograms obtained at the nashville ( tenn ) veterans administration hospital from september 1987 to august 1989 . seventy-three patients were referred for evaluation of syncope or near syncope . of these 73 patients , 10 ( 13.7 % ) had abnormal findings . twenty-six patients were referred for other complaints similar to syncope ( ie , blackouts , loss of consciousness , falling out , passing out , and fainting ) . of these 26 patients , five ( 19.2 % ) had abnormal findings . we reviewed the medical records of the patients with abnormal findings and found that the final diagnosis or treatment of the syncope was affected by electroencephalogram in only one patient . these findings suggest that routine electroencephalography is not of significant value in the evaluation of syncope in adults . 
the influence of age vs peak serum concentration on life-threatening events after chronic theophylline intoxication . to identify risk factors for the development of seizures and cardiac arrhythmias after chronic , unintentional theophylline intoxication we monitored the clinical course of 72 consecutive patients referred to a regional poison center with chronic theophylline intoxication ( serum theophylline concentration , greater than or equal to 167 mumol/l after protracted use ) . the median age of the sample was 47.5 years ( range , 4 days to 91 years ) . median peak theophylline concentration was 239 mumol/l , with a range of 167 to 722 mumol/l . a life-threatening event ( lte ) occurred in 28 patients ( 39 % ) that included seizures in eight and a major cardiac arrhythmia in 22 . the median peak ( theophylline ) of patients who had an lte vs those who did not was 235.8 vs 238.7 mumol/l . however , the median age of patients with an lte compared with those without an lte was significantly greater ( 70.5 vs 18.0 years ) . stratification of data by chronologic age revealed a stepwise increase in the frequency of lte with advancing years : patients more than 75 years old had a 16.7-fold greater risk of lte than patients less than 25 years old ( 95 % confidence interval , 3.56 , 77.5 ) despite comparable intergroup median serum ( theophylline ) . these data suggest the primary determinant of ltes after chronic theophylline intoxication is chronologic age . elderly patients have an inordinately greater risk of lte than younger patients . peak serum theophylline concentration can not predict which patients with chronic theophylline intoxication will have an lte . finally , these data indicate that theophylline should be used cautiously and with frequent monitoring of serum theophylline concentrations in elderly patients . 
morbidity , mortality , and quality of life for patients treated with levothyroxine in a population study of 1462 middle-aged women initiated in 1968 and 1969 we identified 29 women treated with levothyroxine from 1 to 28 years . in a 12-year follow-up in 1980 and 1981 we investigated the subjects for end-point myocardial infarction , diabetes mellitus , stroke , cancer , and death ( the status of 99.7 % of the initial participants was established ) . the women treated with levothyroxine showed no increase in morbidity or mortality . of the 24 women still receiving levothyroxine in 1980 and 1981 , 22 had serum thyrotropin and triiodothyronine concentrations with-in reference limits . these individuals were compared with the 968 women from the population study having no history of thyroid disease , and appeared identical as to laboratory and clinical data , with the exception of a slightly higher body mass , taller stature , and lower serum cholesterol concentration . the treated group did not differ in a life quality estimate based on 19 questions regarding life satisfaction and sensory function . we conclude that the levothyroxine-treated woman suffers no side effects from her life-long therapy . 
an immunofluorescence study of cerebral malaria . a correlation with histopathology . histopathologic and immunopathologic features of cerebral malaria have been defined in a study of six autopsy cases with severe plasmodium falciparum infection . in five cases , immunofluorescent studies demonstrated intense deposition of p falciparum antigen , igg , and fibrin in cerebral vessels associated with the histopathologic finding of hemorrhage in the white matter of cerebrum and cerebellum regardless of the presence of parasitized erythrocytes in the cerebral vessels . immunofluorescent study also demonstrated the extravascular deposits of p falciparum granular antigen associated with acute inflammatory lesion in cerebral tissue in one case . these findings suggested that the immunopathogenic mechanism may in some way play a role in the pathogenesis of cerebral malaria . 
physiologic responses to prolonged electrically stimulated leg-cycle exercise in the spinal cord injured . this study determined the physiologic responses to prolonged functional neuromuscular stimulation ( fns ) leg-cycle exercise in seven quadriplegic and seven paraplegic subjects . each subject completed 30 minutes of continuous fns leg cycling during which open-circuit spirometry , impedance cardiography , auscultation , and fingertip capillary blood sampling were used to assess metabolic and hemodynamic responses . compared with resting values , oxygen uptake , carbon dioxide production , respiratory exchange ratio ( rer ) , pulmonary ventilation , heart rate ( hr ) , left ventricular stroke volume ( sv ) , cardiac output ( qt ) , and blood lactate ( la ) concentration were significantly ( p less than .05 ) elevated , whereas plasma volume , bicarbonate concentration , and ph were significantly decreased in both groups during prolonged fns leg-cycle exercise . mean arterial pressure remained unchanged in quadriplegic and paraplegic subjects during the prolonged fns leg-cycle exercise bout . persons with quadriplegia elicited significantly lower map and tended to have lower sv and qt responses than persons with paraplegia , probably due to a higher degree of sympathetic dysfunction and circulatory hypokinesis during fns leg-cycle exercise . all other physiologic variables responded similarly between groups . we speculate that the relative increases observed for hr ( 33 % to 60 % ) , sv ( 45 % to 69 % ) , and qt ( 113 % to 142 % ) during prolonged fns leg-cycle exercise create a sufficient cardiac-volume load to promote central cardiovascular conditioning in persons with both quadriplegia and paraplegia . the la accumulation ( 4.7 to 5.2 mmol.l-1 ) in the spinal cord injured during prolonged fns leg cycling is unusually high for the power output attained ( 5.2 w and 6.1 w for quadriplegia and paraplegia , respectively ) . 
rehabilitation of chronic stroke patients : changes in functional performance . forty stroke patients who were at least one year post-onset completed a one-month intensive rehabilitation program . the month before the program served as a control period . during the program , patients received individual sessions in occupational and physical therapy four days a week , and they participated in group activities on the fifth day . therapy emphasized instruction in motor planning , balance and weight shift , and the use of adaptive equipment ; these motor abilities were then practiced within real life situations . the patients demonstrated significant improvement in the outcome measures of weight shift , balance , and adl scores after the one-month rehabilitation program ( weight shift : f = 16.1 , p = .0001 ; balance : f = 6.26 , p = .0007 ; adl : f = 13.8 , p = .0001 ) . they retained these new skills during a three-month follow-up period . 
manual stretch : effect on finger movement control and force control in stroke subjects with spastic extrinsic finger flexor muscles . this study evaluated the effects of manual stretch of extrinsic finger flexor muscles on finger extension movement control and force control in 16 spastic hemiparetic subjects . these subjects were randomly divided into a control group and an experimental group . a group of able-bodied subjects also participated . a joint-movement tracking test ( jmtt ) quantified control of active finger extension movement at the metacarpophalangeal joint of the index finger within the available range of active movement , and a force tracking test ( ftt ) quantified control of isometric finger extension force at the same joint within the subject 's available force range . electromyographic activity was monitored in the extensor digitorum and flexor digitorum superficialis muscles during both tracking tests . manual stretch was applied to the extrinsic finger flexor muscles of the experimental group between the pretest and posttest tracking tests . the jmtt performances of both control ( p less than .025 ) and experimental ( p less than .05 ) groups were significantly subnormal on the pretest as were ftt performances of controls ( p less than .01 ) and study subjects ( p less than .03 ) . the jmtt improvement on posttest was significantly greater ( p less than .05 ) in subjects than in controls . however , the change in ftt performance was not significantly different between the two groups . manual stretch treatment , properly applied to extrinsic finger flexor muscles , is an effective method of temporarily improving the control of finger extension movement in spastic hemiparetic subjects . 
strapless oral-nasal interface for positive-pressure ventilation . a custom-fabricated strapless oral-nasal interface ( soni ) is described . it was used in the long-term administration of intermittent positive-pressure ventilation ( ippv ) by 18 patients with paralytic or restrictive pulmonary insufficiency . this interface is an acrylic shell which is firmly fixed to an orthodontic bite plate ; it is designed to form a seal over the nose and mouth for the entry of ippv . eight patients were ventilator dependent 24 hours a day . the ten patients who required only nocturnal aid had improvement in daytime arterial blood gases . although nine of these patients could manage less than 15 minutes of unassisted breathing ( free time ) supine , all slept supine on soni ippv . the 13 patients who underwent sleep monitoring maintained a mean oxygen saturation of 95.3 % + / - 1.7 % and acceptable end-tidal pco2 ( 30 to 45 mmhg ) . these 13 patients have used soni ippv for an average of 22 months ( range = 3 to 63 months ) . impediments to successful long-term use of a soni include the presence of a hyperactive gag reflex or stimulation of excessive oral secretions . when combined with mouth ippv , glossopharyngeal breathing , the intermittent abdominal pressure ventilator , or the cuirass ventilator for daytime use , soni ippv is an option for the patient who prefers total ventilatory support by noninvasive means . 
stroke rehabilitation : a geropsychological perspective . rehabilitation medicine and geriatric medicine are similar in their concern for functional improvement in the face of chronic medical conditions . although many patients served by rehabilitation medicine fall within the geriatric age range , a knowledge of normal aging does not necessarily inform clinical decision making or research practices in rehabilitation . using stroke as an example of a disorder affecting primarily geriatric patients and requiring the technology of rehabilitation , ways in which age might affect assessment of outcome are examined . three areas dealing with conceptual and methodologic issues -- depression , neurochemical interventions , and family -- are highlighted . the final section outlines recommendations for research on rehabilitation outcome of geriatric stroke patients . 
childhood stroke after minor neck trauma : case report . cerebral infarction after minor trauma to the neck has rarely been reported . a case is presented of a child with trauma to the vertebrobasilar artery resulting in stroke . computerized tomography scan and angiography results are presented . despite two subsequent , separate transient episodes of vertigo , the child had good functional recovery with complete restoration of language and cognitive function . after 28 months , residual impairments identified were a mild right-sided ataxia and hemiparesis . 
failure to detect human t-cell leukemia virus-related sequences in multiple sclerosis blood . we tested 11 patients with multiple sclerosis for the presence of human t-cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-i ) - or type ii ( htlv-ii ) - related sequences . dna from blood mononuclear cells was analyzed by the polymerase chain reaction utilizing three different oligonucleotide primer pairs . two of these primer pairs detect sequences shared between htlv-i and htlv-ii in either p24 , gag protein , or in p21 , env transmembrane protein . the third primer pair was synthesized based on regions in the pol gene where amino acid sequences are conserved between htlv-i , htlv-ii , and the related bovine leukemia virus . the multiple sclerosis samples were consistently negative while appropriate control samples were positive . we conclude that viruses related to htlv-i , htlv-ii , or bovine leukemia virus are not present in the blood of patients with multiple sclerosis and , therefore , that htlv-bovine leukemia virus-related viruses are not likely to be involved in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis . 
apneic oxygenation in apnea tests for brain death . a controlled trial . we performed a prospective controlled study of apneic oxygenation on 15 patients undergoing apnea tests for brain death . all patients were preoxygenated with 100 % oxygen at existing respirator settings . during the 10-minute apnea tests , nine patients were given continuous apneic oxygenation by tracheal cannula . the other six patients had tracheal tubes open to room air . the patients given apneic oxygenation had little or no hypoxia by the end of the test . the patients given room air during the test became hypoxic . many neurologists perform apnea tests with no oxygenation or with preoxygenation alone . this is the first prospective controlled study ( to our knowledge ) of apneic oxygenation ; it shows that preoxygenation alone does not prevent hypoxia during apnea tests for brain death . we recommend that all apnea tests be performed with apneic oxygenation . 
geographic patterns of parkinsonism-dementia complex on guam . 1956 through 1985 . average annual age-adjusted incidence rates of parkinsonism-dementia complex were obtained for the 19 election districts of guam from 1956 through 1985 . the highest rates were found in the southern and central districts , and the lowest rates were found in the northern and western districts . geographic and temporal patterns of incidence were associated with socioeconomic status but not with geochemical factors . the risk of parkinsonism-dementia complex in susceptible sibships was much higher than that in the general population -- even in districts with the highest incidence rates , but especially in districts with the lowest incidence rates . our evidence tends to support the hypothesis that multiple factors linked to cycad use play an important role in the cause of pdc . hypotheses related to metal exposure and simple genetic factors were unsatisfactory explanations for the epidemiologic patterns observed . 
racial differences in the anterior circulation in cerebrovascular disease . how much can be explained by risk factors ? the entry characteristics of 1367 patients enrolled into the extracranial/intracranial bypass study were examined to determine if site differences in intracranial and extracranial arterial lesions among racial groups could be explained by differences in risk factors . blacks were more often hypertensive , diabetic , or cigarette smokers , while whites had higher systolic blood pressure and hemoglobin values . orientals had the lowest prevalence of vascular risk factors . despite these differences in risk factors , multivariate analysis showed race to be an independent and strong predictor of the location of cerebrovascular lesions . to our knowledge , this study is unique in documenting risk factors prospectively and systematically in three racial groups simultaneously . although generalization is limited by possible biases related to patient selection , the results affirm previous tentative conclusions about the role of race in determining the location of cerebrovascular disease . 
the large striatocapsular infarct . a clinical and pathophysiological entity . we examined 29 patients with strictly subcortical large striatocapsular infarctions . eight of them had aphasia or neglect . all patients underwent transcranial doppler ultrasonography or selective carotid angiography , magnetic resonance imaging , and single photon emission tomography for assessment of cerebral blood flow , blood volume , and cerebral perfusion reserve . the signs were compatible with cortical territorial infarctions rather than lacunes . on both magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomographic scans , the lesions corresponded to the territories of the medial and lateral group of the lenticulostriate arteries , heubner 's artery , or the anterior choroidal artery . the infarctions were either due to cerebral embolization into the m1 segment of the middle cerebral artery or due to stenosis at the same site , ie , lesions that acutely and simultaneously occluded the orifices of the lenticulostriate or neighboring arteries . persistent occlusion of the middle cerebral arteries and a decrease of cortical regional cerebral blood flow were only found in patients with aphasia or neglect . all patients without aphasia or neglect showed a rapid recanalization of the middle cerebral artery occlusion or a stenosis of the m1 segment and no cortical regional cerebral blood flow decrease . large striatocapsular infarctions occur due to occlusive disease of the middle cerebral artery ( large-vessel disease ) and not due to a disseminated in situ occlusion of the long penetrating arteries ( small-vessel disease ) , as in lacunes . neuropsychological deficits can be explained by decreased cortical blood flow due to a persistent occlusive lesion of the middle cerebral artery . 
brain imaging abnormalities in mental disorders of late life . psychiatric inpatients with dementia ( n = 61 ) or depression ( n = 67 ) in late life were 2.6 times more likely to manifest magnetic resonance imaging abnormalities of the brain than were elderly controls ( n = 44 ) . controlling for the effects of age and gender , demented patients were distinguishable from controls by an increased prevalence of cortical atrophy and infarction , while depressed patients exhibited an increased prevalence of cortical infarctions and leukoencephalopathy . patients with dementia were distinguishable from those with major depression by an increased prevalence of cortical atrophy . these results indicate that major depression in late life , like dementia , is associated with a remarkable increase in overt pathologic changes in the brain . 
adjuvant chemotherapy for primary lymphoma of the central nervous system . ten immunocompetent patients with primary non-hodgkin 's lymphoma of the central nervous system were treated by the neuro-oncology service at the university of california at san francisco ( ucsf ) . after undergoing surgery for biopsy or removal of their tumors , these patients ( group 1 ) received irradiation with hydroxyurea followed by adjuvant chemotherapy with the combination of procarbazine , lomustine ( ccnu ) , and vincristine . the outcome of treatment in this group was compared with that in three other groups of patients with primary cns lymphoma : patients treated at the ucsf cancer research institute who underwent surgery and radiation therapy ( rt ) ( group 2 ) ; patients described in the literature who had surgery and rt ( group 3 ) ; or patients described in the literature who had surgery , rt , and chemotherapy ( group 4 ) . median and quartile survival times were greater in patients who received adjuvant chemotherapy ( group 1 , 30 and 50 months ; group 4 , 20 and 25 months ) than in patients who did not receive chemotherapy after rt ( group 2 , 13 and 20 months ; group 3 , 15 and 24 months ) . these results suggest that adjuvant chemotherapy is useful in the treatment of primary cns lymphoma . 
x-linked spinal muscular atrophy ( kennedy 's syndrome ) . a kindred with hypobetalipoproteinemia . kennedy 's syndrome , x-linked adult-onset bulbospinal muscular atrophy , has been described in over 30 families . the characteristic distribution of weakness creates a recognizable syndrome , augmented by frequent findings of testicular atrophy and gynecomastia . type iv or type ii hyperlipoproteinemia has been found in some families . we have studied another family with kennedy 's syndrome , this one with hypobetalipoproteinemia . the diversity of serum patterns suggests that lipoprotein abnormalities are not causally related to either the endocrinopathy or the spinal muscular atrophy . however , gene linkage studies indicate proximity of the gene for kennedy 's syndrome and the gene encoding the androgen receptor , which could explain the combination of a motor neuron disorder and the endocrine abnormalities . 
unusual cause of ' piriformis muscle syndrome ' . the piriformis muscle syndrome is a controversial " clinical " syndrome primarily characterized by signs and symptoms of sciatic nerve compression at the region of the piriformis muscle as it passes through the greater sciatic notch . the syndrome is often referred to ; however , cases are rarely reported , and it is generally an uncommon diagnosis . of those cases reported , the incidence is six times more frequent in females than in males , and is typically temporally related to minor pelvic or buttock trauma . we describe a case of a 40-year-old woman presenting with signs and symptoms suggestive of piriformis muscle syndrome following a gynecologic procedure performed in the dorsal lithotomy position . electromyographic findings were consistent with this clinical entity . operative exploration , however , revealed the source of neural compression to be a pseudoaneurysm of the inferior gluteal artery adjacent to the piriformis muscle . the diagnostic features of this clinical syndrome are discussed . 
botulinum vs adjustable suture surgery in the treatment of horizontal misalignment in adult patients lacking fusion . thirty patients were treated with either botulinum toxin or adjustable suture surgery in a prospective , randomized clinical trial . all patients had horizontal deviations greater than 10 prism diopters and absent fusion . seventeen patients were assigned to toxin treatment , and 13 were assigned to surgical treatment . follow-up at 6 months after either procedure indicated that surgery was superior , with patient alignment showing a 92.7 % average net change , compared with a 50.50 % net change in the botulinum-treated group . there was no difference in response between those patients with a starting deviation of 20 pd or less and greater than 20 pd in the surgery group . however , in the botulinum-treated group , those patients with a starting deviation of 20 pd or less seemed to show better responses than those patients with greater than 20 pd . patients with esotropia showed an 88.89 % change with surgery and a 51.55 % change with toxin treatment . patients with exotropia had a 95.83 % change with surgery but a 50.3 % change with toxin treatment . since we had 20 patients with exotropia and 10 patients with esotropia , a more formal comparison would require larger numbers . 
experimental alcoholic skeletal muscle myopathy is characterised by a rapid and sustained decrease in muscle rna content . an investigation was made into the effects of ethanol feeding ( 36 % of total calories ) on skeletal muscle . from 7 to 42 days , muscle weights and protein and dna contents of alcohol-treated rats were significantly lower ( 10-23 % ) than pair-fed controls ( with glucose as 36 % of total calories ) . ethanol feeding markedly reduced muscle rna content by 22-34 % , when compared to controls . muscle rna content of ethanol-fed rats at 7 , 14 , 28 and 42 days of treatment was significantly lower than initial values ( i.e. at 3 days ) by 22-38 % . thus , ethanol feeding caused an initial net loss and thereafter a reduction in the rate of accretion of rna . the marked and sustained loss in the muscle protein synthetic apparatus may be a precipitating event in the development of experimental skeletal muscle myopathy . 
epidural hematoma : an unusual presentation . the authors present a patient with a traumatic epidural hematoma who complained only of headache and presented to the emergency department 48 hours after a fall . mental status and neurological examination were normal . this delayed presentation is more commonly seen when a subdural hematoma is present but may result from epidural bleeding . delayed formation of a traumatic epidural hematoma may occur when the following are present : elevated intracranial pressure , hypovolemic shock , a concomitant mass lesion , coagulopathy , bleeding from dural or diploic veins , a dural sinus laceration , a traumatic pseudoaneurysm , or an arteriovenous fistula . although criteria for computed tomography of patients with head injuries remain variable in the literature , delayed presentation of epidural bleeding must be considered in the differential diagnosis of posttraumatic headache irregardless of the time interval or neurological presentation . 
cardiac arrhythmias from a malpositioned greenfield filter in a traumatic quadriplegic . a case study is presented of premature greenfield filter discharge with intracardiac migration and resulting life-threatening arrhythmias . these arrhythmias also interfered with the patient 's transition from ventilatory support via orotracheal intubation to noninvasive positive airway pressure ventilatory support methods . the patient 's arrhythmias were controlled by a demand cardiac pacemaker and cardiac glycoside therapy . no anticoagulants were used . she had no further filter migration nor significant complications for 16 months after hospital discharge . 
the supraspinal anxiolytic effect of baclofen for spasticity reduction . recent studies in the psychiatric literature indicate that baclofen has an anxiolytic action in certain psychopathologic conditions . clinical observation has shown that manifestations of spasticity are increased in anxious individuals , implicating a supraspinal site of mediation for these responses . the purposes of this study were to determine if baclofen reduced anxiety in individuals with traumatic spinal cord lesions and whether that reduction was correlated with decreased spasticity from the baclofen . five adult males with traumatic spinal cord injury were randomly assigned to the study protocol . a double-blind , repeated measures , multiple base-line , single-case research design was employed . the independent variable was dose of medication with the three levels being placebo , 40 mg/day of baclofen and 80 mg/day of baclofen , in four evenly divided doses . the dependent variable was the score obtained on the beck inventory-a anxiety scale ( bia ) . the subjects were administered the bia twice per week for a nine-week period of time , during which they received the doses of medication as described . quantitative measurements of spasticity were also taken at each session . visual inspection analysis of the data showed that two subjects had no measurable anxiety of the bia throughout the study . three subjects had measurable anxiety on the bia during the base-line/placebo phase . they showed a decreased level of their bia scores with 40 mg/day of baclofen , and a further level reduction with 80 mg/day of baclofen . the reduction in bia scores was statistically significant using the standard deviation band test in one of these subjects . these data indicate that bia probably has an anxiolytic effect for individuals status post-traumatic spinal cord injury . 
effect of flumazenil on midazolam-induced amnesia . we have studied the effect of i.v. flumazenil 0.01 mg kg-1 on the amnesia and sedation caused by midazolam 2 mg and 5 mg i.v. in volunteers in order to determine the relationship between the actions of the antagonist on these two effects . midazolam caused dose-dependent central neural depression as assessed by critical flicker fusion frequency , and dose-dependent amnesia for word cards . in subjects given flumazenil 5 min after administration of midazolam , fusion frequency readings and memory were restored to levels comparable to those before midazolam administration . these two effects of flumazenil were similar in time course and extent , suggesting that they share the same mechanism of action . flumazenil given alone had no effect on memory . the study has demonstrated anterograde amnesia following benzodiazepine administration and antagonism by flumazenil . there was neither retrograde amnesia nor retrograde antagonism of amnesia . 
double-blind comparison of topical lignocaine-prilocaine cream ( emla ) and lignocaine infiltration for arterial cannulation in adults . in a double-blind , double-dummy study , the efficacy of topical 5 % emla cream was compared with that of lignocaine infiltration in alleviating the pain of arterial cannulation . forty unpremedicated adults were allocated randomly to four groups to receive emla cream alone , emla and 0.9 % saline infiltration , emla and 1 % lignocaine infiltration or placebo cream and 1 % lignocaine infiltration . following arterial cannulation , pain was assessed by the patient using a visual analogue score and by an independent observer using a four-category verbal rating score . significantly lower pain scores were observed in all patients receiving emla compared with those receiving placebo cream and lignocaine infiltration by both patient ( p less than 0.01 ) and observer ( p less than 0.001 ) assessments . there were no significant differences between the three emla groups . 
cerebral effects of sevoflurane in the dog : comparison with isoflurane and enflurane . the cerebral effects of sevoflurane were compared in dogs with those of enflurane and isoflurane . initially , the minimum alveolar concentrations ( mac ) of sevoflurane and enflurane were determined and the electroencephalographic ( eeg ) responses to increasing doses of sevoflurane ( 1.5 , 2.0 and 2.5 mac ) or enflurane ( 1.5 and 2.0 mac ) in unparalysed animals were examined . administration of sevoflurane was not associated with seizure activity at any concentration either during normocapnia ( paco2 5.3 kpa ) or hypocapnia ( paco2 2.7 kpa ) , even in the presence of intense auditory stimuli . all dogs anaesthetized with enflurane demonstrated sustained eeg and motor evidence of seizure activity induced by auditory stimuli at concentrations of enflurane greater than 1 mac , particularly during hypocapnia . in a separate group of dogs , the effects of increasing concentrations of sevoflurane and isoflurane ( 0.5 , 1.5 and 2.15 mac ) were compared directly on arterial pressure , cardiac output and heart rate , cerebral blood flow and the cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen ( cmro2 ) using the venous outflow technique . sevoflurane , in common with isoflurane , had minimal effects on cerebral blood flow at the concentrations studied , but significantly reduced the cmro2 at end-tidal concentrations sufficient to produce a burst suppression pattern on the eeg ( approximately 2.15 mac ) . both sevoflurane and isoflurane significantly decreased arterial pressure in a dose-dependent manner , but neither drug significantly altered cardiac output . 
homocystinuria presenting as central retinal artery occlusion and longstanding thromboembolic disease . a case of central retinal artery occlusion in a patient with a 10-year history of unexplained thromboembolic disease due to a secondary hypercoagulable state is presented . ophthalmological examination led to the final diagnosis . 
immunophenotypic characteristics of cerebrospinal fluid cells in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia at diagnosis . the presence of meningeal involvement in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) may have important prognostic and therapeutic implications . conventional methods of diagnosing central nervous system ( cns ) leukemia rely on the interpretation of cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) cell morphology , which may produce ambiguous results in the presence of minimal leukemic involvement . a methodology has been developed for immunophenotyping small numbers of csf cells while preserving cell morphology . csf samples from 33 children with cd10 ( common all antigen [ calla ] ) positive all were examined at initial presentation using both conventional morphology and this combined immunohistopathologic technique . six ( 18 % ) of the samples contained lymphoblasts or cells considered morphologically suspicious for leukemic involvement . nine additional samples ( 27 % of the total ) had normal csf morphology , but contained increased numbers of calla positive cells . twelve of the 33 samples were also examined for the simultaneous presence of nuclear terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase ( tdt ) and demonstrated increased numbers of cells positive for both tdt and cd10 . these data suggest that a large proportion of children with all may have abnormalities of csf cells at initial diagnosis consistent with the presence of occult leukemic involvement . 
unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation : no causal relation with diabetic autonomic neuropathy objective -- to examine the traditional view that unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation in insulin dependent diabetes mellitus are manifestations of autonomic neuropathy . design -- perspective assessment of unawareness of hypoglycaemia and detailed assessment of autonomic neuropathy in patients with insulin dependent diabetes according to the adequacy of their hypoglycaemic counterregulation . setting -- one routine diabetic unit in a university teaching hospital . patients -- 23 patients aged 21-52 with insulin dependent diabetes mellitus ( seven with symptoms suggesting autonomic neuropathy , nine with a serious clinical problem with hypoglycaemia , and seven without symptoms of autonomic neuropathy and without problems with hypoglycaemia ) and 10 controls with a similar age distribution , without a personal or family history of diabetes . main outcome measures -- presence of autonomic neuropathy as assessed with a test of the longest sympathetic fibres ( acetylcholine sweatspot test ) , a pupil test , and a battery of seven cardiovascular autonomic function tests ; adequacy of hypoglycaemic glucose counterregulation during a 40 mu/kg/h insulin infusion test ; history of unawareness of hypoglycaemia ; and response of plasma pancreatic polypeptide during hypoglycaemia , which depends on an intact and responding autonomic innervation of the pancreas . results -- there was little evidence of autonomic neuropathy in either the 12 diabetic patients with a history of unawareness of hypoglycaemia or the seven patients with inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation . by contrast , in all seven patients with clear evidence of autonomic neuropathy there was no history of unawareness of hypoglycaemia and in six out of seven there was adequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation . unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation were significantly associated ( p less than 0.01 ) . the response of plasma pancreatic polypeptide in the diabetic patients with adequate counterregulation but without autonomic neuropathy was not significantly different from that of the controls ( change in plasma pancreatic polypeptide 226.8 v 414 pmol/l ) . the patients with autonomic neuropathy had a negligible plasma pancreatic polypeptide response ( 3.7 pmol/l ) , but this response was also blunted in the patients with inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation ( 72.4 pmol/l ) compared with that of the controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . conclusions -- unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate glucose counterregulation during hypoglycaemia are related to each other but are not due to autonomic neuropathy . the blunted plasma pancreatic polypeptide responses of the patients with inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation may reflect diminished autonomic activity consequent upon reduced responsiveness of a central glucoregulatory centre , rather than classical autonomic neuropathy . 
diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis ( dish ) of the shoulder : a cause of shoulder pain ? shoulder pain is a common complaint and shoulder hyperostosis a frequent radiological condition . however , little is known about the association between the clinical and radiological findings . to evaluate the clinical relevance of shoulder hyperostosis we performed a controlled , blind study of 99 hospitalized probands with and without thoracospinal hyperostosis on lateral chest x-rays . the study included grading of the shoulder hyperostosis on the basis of three bilateral standard radiographs , assessing shoulder pain in a standardized way by an interviewer and recording extraskeletal causes of shoulder pain . the prevalence of shoulder hyperostosis was doubled in probands with thoracospinal hyperostosis compared to controls ( chi 2 = 5.90 , p less than 0.025 , n = 99 ) . shoulder hyperostosis , irrespective of thoracospinal hyperostosis , predisposed to shoulder pain ( 40 % versus 18 % , chi 2 = 4.06 , p less than 0.05 , n = 74 ) . shoulder hyperostosis in combination with thoracospinal hyperostosis ( shoulder dish ) predisposed to shoulder pain to an even greater extent ( 46 % versus 12 % , chi 2 = 6.64 , p less than 0.01 , n = 47 ) . we conclude that shoulder hyperostosis is a radiological finding of potential clinical relevance . 
does primary fibromyalgia exist ? twenty-one of 25 consecutive primary fibromyalgia or fibrositis patients , identified during a 5-year period in a tertiary care day-ward for pain syndromes , were re-examined . fifteen fulfilled criteria for fibromyalgia but unexpectedly , all cases had either psychiatric disturbance or thyroid dysfunction . of the four patients not seen at follow-up , two had developed neurological diseases , another rheumatoid arthritis and one other hypothyroidism . thus , after 5 years no patient fulfilled the criteria for primary fibromyalgia . women occupied as manual workers were over-represented . most patients reported beneficial effects of physiotherapy . none of the patients has been able to return to full time work . 
lesions of the mid-shaft of the humerus presenting as shoulder capsulitis . we describe three patients who presented with pain and restriction of movement at the shoulder suggestive of capsulitis , but proved to have lesions of the mid-shaft of the humerus . it is important to be aware of the possibility of this cause of a ' frozen shoulder ' , since radiographs of the shoulder are usually cropped at the mid-humerus and lesions at this level may easily be missed . a radiograph of the entire humerus , or an isotope bone scan , may be more useful than repeated shoulder radiographs in patients whose shoulder symptoms do not respond to standard treatment . 
mastalgia refractory to drug treatment . management of the patient with mastalgia who fails to respond to first line therapy is a difficult problem and there is a group of patients who do not respond to any therapy . a group of 126 patients with mastalgia who failed to respond to first line therapy and completed further treatment options was studied . the response rate of those with cyclical mastalgia fell to 57 and 25 per cent for second and third line therapy respectively . equivalent figures for non-cyclical mastalgia were 24 and 21 per cent . danazol maintains a high response rate after the failure of other drugs , whereas the second line response to bromocriptine and evening primrose oil is poor . unresponsive patients were matched to a group of patients who responded to first line therapy , and reproductive and historical factors were compared using the chi 2 test , but failed to identify which patients would respond to therapy . 
abdominal wall pain : an alternative diagnosis . the cause of abdominal pain need not necessarily reside in the viscera ; the abdominal wall is another source of symptoms . some causes of abdominal wall pain are obvious , e.g. hernias , but not so others such as nerve entrapment syndromes . this review is concerned with causes of abdominal wall pain which , although common , may be easily overlooked . 
elevated serum bromide concentrations following repeated halothane anaesthesia in a child . a 20-month-old child received 25 brief halothane general anaesthetics over a five-week period to allow cranial irradiation treatments for a posterior fossa ependymoma . personality change during the last week of the treatment protocol raised the question of possible bromide intoxication . serum bromide concentrations , using a gold chloride assay technique , were monitored at that time , and at four - and six-week intervals thereafter . serum bromide concentrations demonstrated a four-fold change during this period ranging from peak levels of 2.2 meq.l-1 ( 176 micrograms.kg-1 ) during the fifth week of treatment decreasing to less than 0.5 meq.l-1 ( less than 40 micrograms.ml-1 ) six weeks following the end of treatments . this demonstrates the possibility for repetitive , short halothane exposures to result in elevations of serum bromide and the potential of bromide intoxication in paediatric neuro-oncology patients . 
anaesthetic management of the brain dead for organ donation . an increasing number of anaesthetists is being called upon to manage organ donors during organ retrieval procedures . we briefly describe the technical aspects of the surgical procedure together with a guide to the anaesthetic management . the aims of the latter may be summarized as the " rule of 100 " : systolic blood pressure greater than 100 mmhg , urine output greater than 100 ml.hr-1 , pao2 greater than 100 mmhg , haemoglobin concentration greater than 100 g.l-1 . common management problems ( hypotension , arrhythmias , diabetes insipidus , oliguria , and coagulopathy ) are discussed in detail . the intraoperative management of the brain-dead organ donor provides the anaesthetist with the challenge of a major surgical procedure in a subject with important physiological derangements . 
left ventricular ejection fraction may not be useful as an end point of thrombolytic therapy comparative trials . in the era of comparative and adjunctive trials in reperfusion therapy , the need to develop alternative end points for mortality reduction is clear . left ventricular ejection fraction , which has been commonly used as a surrogate , is problematic due to missing values , technically inadequate studies , and lack of correlation with mortality results in controlled reperfusion trials performed to date . in this paper , we present a composite clinical end point that includes , in order , severity of adverse outcome death , hemorrhagic stroke , nonhemorrhagic stroke , poor ejection fraction ( less than 30 % ) , reinfarction , heart failure , and pulmonary edema . such a composite index may be useful to detect true therapeutic benefit in reperfusion trials without necessitating greater than 20-30 ,000 patient enrollment . 
neurological and ophthalmological phenomena after aortic conduit surgery . transient neurological and visual signs have been observed in some patients after valved conduit replacement of the aortic valve and ascending aorta . twenty-seven patients having valved conduit replacement between february 1982 and october 1988 were compared with 21 patients having combined aortic valve replacement ( avr ) and ascending aorta ( aa ) graft replacement . follow-up in 100 % of both groups was obtained for 0.3-6 .6 years ( mean , 2.6 + / - 0.3 years ) . among 20 surviving valved conduit patients , 10 ( 50.0 % ) experienced repetitive neurological and visual signs , including scotomata ( seven ) , transient motor ischemic attacks ( two ) , amaurosis fugax ( four ) , and recurring attention lapses suggesting petit mal seizures ( one ) . no patient with avr + aa graft experienced any events ( p = 0.004 ) . all valved conduit and seven ( 53.8 % ) of avr + aa graft patients were on warfarin ( p = 0.0016 ) . these events retained the same pattern although they diminished in frequency after 12 months in seven patients ( 70.0 % ) and after initiation of dipyridamole in two patients . rehabilitation was similar in both groups : 18 of 20 ( 90.0 % ) valved conduit and 12 of 16 ( 75.0 % ) avr + aa graft patients ( p = ns ) . transient , repetitive , nonprogressive neurological and ophthalmological phenomena are frequent after valved conduit replacement . the pathophysiological mechanism is unclear , but antiplatelet therapy may provide symptomatic control . 
obstructive sleep apnoea in children undergoing routine tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy . sleep screening was used to discover the incidence of sleep apnoea in 50 children undergoing routine adenotonsillectomy for recurrent upper respiratory tract infections , randomly selected from the waiting list . preoperative assessment included a detailed parental history , physical examination , and lateral cephalometry , in order to identify factors that might alert the clinician to a diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnoea . there were 2 equal groups of snorers and non-snorers ( grade 0 ) ; 1 patient was found to have the sleep apnoea syndrome ( iv ) , 9 patients had obstructive snoring with apnoeic episodes ( iii ) , 3 patients had snoring with a disrupted sleep pattern ( ii ) , and 12 patients snored with no disruption of sleep ( i ) . in identifying patients with apnoea , a history of snoring was unhelpful , whereas one of breathing irregularities was found to be highly specific . nasal obstruction correlated poorly ; however , there was a significant relationship between tonsillar position and size and sleep grade ( chi-squared p less than 0.01 ) . stepwise regression analysis showed a large contribution to the grading was made by the size of the oropharyngeal airway measured by lateral cephalometry . the children in grade ii-iv were re-studied 3 months post-operatively and all reverted to grades 0 or i. 
a randomized comparison of manipulation of the fractured nose under local and general anaesthesia . reduction of simple nasal fractures may be performed under local or general anaesthesia : the latter is by far the most popular method in britain , though why is hard to define . we have attempted to compare the 2 approaches by means of a randomized , prospective trial . fifty consecutive , adult patients with radiologically proved fractures of the nasal bones were randomized to a local or general anaesthesia group and underwent manipulation with asch 's and walsham 's forceps between 7 and 15 days post-injury . analysis of results at 4 h and 8 weeks post-operatively showed no significant benefit conferred by fracture reduction under general anaesthesia as opposed to local anaesthesia with respect to post-operative airway patency or cosmesis . it is suggested that significant benefits can be obtained in terms of patient convenience and cost effectiveness if nasal fractures are reduced under local anaesthesia as an outpatient procedure . 
patellar resurfacing in total knee arthroplasty . technical errors in patellar resurfacing at the time of total knee arthroplasty ( tka ) are responsible for many of the complications that affect the patellofemoral joint . instability , patellar fracture , and wear of metal-backed patellar implants are significantly affected by errors of patellar resurfacing . a review of 50 tkas using a condylar prosthesis and a standardized technique for patellar resurfacing was performed to evaluate the accuracy of the technique . the patients were evaluated at a mean of 2.5 years ( range , two to five years ) after surgery . the hospital for special surgery knee score improved from a preoperative mean of 56 to 92 at the last evaluation . the hospital for special surgery knee scores were excellent in 92 % and good in 8 % . the knee society knee score improved from a preoperative mean of 28 for pain and 49 for function to a last evaluation mean of 96 for pain and 85 for function . none of the patients had symptoms referable to the patellofemoral joint . there were no patellar fractures , dislocations , or instances of implant loosening of the patella . roentgenograms revealed nine asymmetrically resurfaced patellae and five tilted patellae . there were no patellar subluxations . patellar thickness was maintained at the preoperative level of 21 mm . joint-line height was elevated 1 mm . the patellar height was decreased 2 mm from the preoperative height . using a standard technique , satisfactory clinical results can be achieved , but minor errors in resurfacing and alignment will still occur . 
cemented total knee arthroplasty for gonarthrosis in patients 55 years old or younger . the results of 68 cemented total knee arthroplasties ( tkas ) in 50 patients with gonarthrosis who were 55 years old or younger at the time of surgery were reviewed . these patients were operated on between 1979 and 1987 and were followed for an average of 6.2 years . the average age of the patients was 50 years . patients were evaluated by the hospital for special surgery knee score . the average preoperative score was 53 , and the average follow-up score was 90 . overall , 55 tkas were rated as excellent and 13 as good . using the knee rating score advocated by the knee society , the average postoperative score was 92 for pain and 84 for function . there were four successful reoperations for patellar component loosening , all in metal-backed patellae . the femoral and tibial components in these patients were intact , and at the follow-up period , two knees were rated as excellent and two as good . detailed roentgenographic evaluation demonstrated that 20 % of tibial components had radiolucencies in at least one zone on the anteroposterior roentgenogram and in 11 % on the lateral roentgenogram . femoral radiolucencies occurred in only 2 % of knees . patellar radiolucencies in one or more zones occurred in 20 % of knees that had not had patellar revision . no complete or progressive radiolucencies at the bone-cement interface were noted for any component , and no components were considered to be roentgenographically loose . cemented tkas can achieve excellent long-term results in patients younger than 55 years old with gonarthrosis of the knee . these results compare with those obtained in published reports on older age groups . 
htlv-i viral-associated myelopathy after blood transfusion in a multiple trauma patient . this may be the first documented case in the united states and in the orthopedic literature of transfusion-transmitted human t-cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-i ) - associated myelopathy ( ham ) . progressive myelopathy occurred in a 58-year-old white man with serologic and molecular evidence of htlv-i infection after multiple trauma and subsequent transfusion with multiple units of banked blood products . symptoms of myelopathy occurred 15 months after the transfusions . myelopathy from htlv-i infection simulates a disorder of orthopedic interest . physicians should be aware of the symptoms of ham and unexplained myelopathy . 
anterior acromioplasty for treatment of the shoulder impingement syndrome . between 1975 and 1979 , anterior acromioplasty was performed in 65 patients with 66 involved shoulders . the procedure appears to be safe and reasonably effective . of the 65 patients in this study , 50 had chronic tendon inflammation with fibrosis , and 16 also had a small supraspinatus tendon tear . these 16 had rotator cuff repairs . twenty-six patients were also treated with distal clavicle excision , and seven had tenodesis of the long head of the biceps brachii . the average age of the patients was 50 years ( range , 23-75 years ) . all patients were followed for an average of eight years ( range , three to 13 years ) . at final evaluation , no or slight pain was present in 77 % of the shoulders : 39 of 50 without tendon tearing and 12 of 16 with tendon tearing and repair . active shoulder abduction averaged 167 degrees . ninety-two percent returned to employment , including 18 % with some job modification . eighty-six percent returned to recreational athletics , 20 % with some modification of activities . seven patients had additional surgical treatment . the progression of rotator cuff disease is not always prevented , but the need for subsequent shoulder treatment generally decreases . 
long-term morphology of spastic or flaccid muscles in spinal cord-transected rabbits . despite difficulty in long-term maintenance of spinalized rabbits , muscular pathologic changes in chronic spinalized rabbits could be observed for a period of four weeks . rabbits were prepared by spinal cord transection at t10 ( spastic paralysis ) or by spinal cord removal below l7 ( flaccid paralysis ) . spastic preparations showed hind-limb spasticity and reflex incontinence one to two days after operation . hypertrophic fibers began to appear in spastic muscles after two weeks . this hypertrophy , thought to be caused by phasic repetitive contraction , was verified by electron microscopy to be different from normal exercise hypertrophy . flaccid preparations maintained hind-limb flaccidity and overflow incontinence . in flaccid muscle , marked muscle fiber necrosis indicated rapid atrophy . spinal deformity and joint contracture inactivate spinalized rabbits , and cause pressure sores . however , feeding assistance and avoidance of complications make long-term maintenance possible . 
total knee arthroplasty fixation . comparison of the early results of paired cemented versus uncemented porous coated anatomic knee prostheses . the results of 18 matched pairs of porous coated anatomic knee prostheses were studied to compare the early clinical and functional performance of cemented versus uncemented fixation with an average five-year follow-up period for both . the knee score improved from a preoperative average of 35 points to a postoperative average of 90 points in the cemented group , and from 38 points to 93 points in the uncemented group . in particular , the individual pain scores and the range-of-motion values were well matched at the three - , six - , and 12-month follow-up visits and showed a steady improvement . subjectively , all patients were pleased with the results of surgery ; one-third preferred the cemented side , one-third preferred the uncemented side , and one-third found no difference in the performance of either knee . the clinical and functional performance of knee prostheses in patients who had one cemented knee and one uncemented knee were comparable and possibly unrelated to the type of fixation method . 
cemented and ingrowth fixation of the miller-galante prosthesis . clinical and roentgenographic comparison after three - to six-year follow-up studies . one hundred thirty-nine cemented and 132 cementless miller-galante total knee prostheses were followed between three and six years ( average , 43-44 months ) . the fixation technique was based on patient age , bone quality , and ability to delay full-weight bearing . clinical follow-up studies were possible on 116 cemented knees . fifteen knees were lost because of death before the three-year follow-up study , and eight knees required component removal . one hundred twenty-three cementless knees were available for clinical follow-up studies ; there were three deaths , and six failures required component removal . no cemented failure was due to fixation , and three cementless failures were due to lack of tibial ingrowth in two and pain of undetermined etiology in one . preoperative knee scores were slightly significant with cemented knees averaging 48 points and cementless knees averaging 52 points . a similar significant difference was maintained at the final follow-up study . no significant differences were noted for pain , limp , or support scores . average range of motion was similar in the two groups . radiolucent lines about the femoral component were rare . cementless tibial radiolucencies were partial in up to 20 % of examined zones , and complete tibial tray radiolucency was seen in only three patients . no correlation between radiolucency and knee scores was seen . 
seizures in the alcoholic patient . the first international symposium on alcohol and seizures ( september 1988 , washington , dc ) convened experts from north america and europe to discuss the basic and clinical research findings in this field . most of the observations communicated at this symposium are included in this article . emergency physicians are familiar with the alcoholic patient who presents during or after a seizure ( s ) . this familiarity must not obscure the fact that a significant minority of these patients will have an underlying process that can cause morbidity or mortality if the unsuspecting physician does not have an organized and methodic approach to the evaluation and management of the seizing alcoholic patient . status epilepticus should be evaluated and treated in a similar fashion , whether or not the patient is an alcoholic . otherwise , almost without exception , there are nuances and controversies with respect to the evaluation and management of the alcoholic patient with a seizure ( s ) , from the indications for ct scan , to the proper role of sedatives and anticonvulsants , and the need for admission . the emergency physician must remain a patient advocate . the great majority of alcoholic patients with seizures who require admission can be treated satisfactorily at the hospital of presentation . 
neurologic complications of alcoholism . neurologic and myopathic complications of alcoholism are multiple and diverse , affecting both the central and peripheral nervous systems . in the ed , initial concern is for diagnosing readily reversible causes and ruling out possible life - or limb-threatening etiologies . a rapid assessment of the abcs , a fingerstick blood glucose determination , and , in cases of ams , the administration of intravenous naloxone is indicated . in almost every instance of a potential neurologic complication , intravenous thiamine replacement is indicated initially , along with the parenteral administration of folic acid and the other b vitamins , including nicotinic acid and pyridoxine . metabolic screening with electrolytes , glucose , blood urea nitrogen , creatinine , calcium , magnesium , liver enzymes ( ast , alkaline phosphatase ) , bilirubin , arterial blood gases with carboxyhemoglobin determination , and a complete blood count are often warranted . special tests such as ct scan , ck , ammonia , or toxicologic screens are indicated in specific instances . in terms of physical examination , attention to the presence of focal neurologic findings is paramount because of the possibility of a subdural or epidural hematoma . it is important not to miss meningitis and a low threshold for treatment or lumbar puncture should be maintained . specialized consultation and referral are needed only after stabilization and appropriate tests are performed . if an organized approach to the evaluation of an alcoholic with neurologic symptoms is undertaken , occult disease will not be missed and outcomes will be improved . 
anatomical , physiological , and theoretical basis for the antiepileptic effect of vagus nerve stimulation . the vagus is a mixed nerve carrying somatic and visceral afferents and efferents . the majority of vagal nerve fibers are visceral afferents and have a wide distribution throughout the central nervous system ( cns ) either monosynaptically or via the nucleus of the solitary tract . besides activation of well-defined reflexes , vagal stimulation produces evoked potentials recorded from the cerebral cortex , the hippocampus , the thalamus , and the cerebellum . activation of vagal afferents can depress monosynaptic reflexes , decrease the activity of spinothalamic neurons , and increase pain threshold . depending on the stimulation parameters , vagal afferent stimulation in experimental animals can produce electroencephalographic ( eeg ) synchronization or desynchronization and has been shown to affect sleep states . the desychronization of the eeg appears to depend on activation of afferent fibers that have conduction velocities of less than or equal to 15 m/s . vagal afferent stimulation can also influence the activity of interictal cortical spikes produced by topical strychnine application , and either attenuate or stop seizures produced by pentylenetetrazol , 3-mercaptoproprionic acid , maximal electroshock , and topical alumina gel . the mechanisms for the antiepileptic effects of vagal stimulation are not fully understood but probably relate to effects on the reticular activating system . the vagus provides an easily accessible , peripheral route to modulate cns function . 
feasibility and safety of vagal stimulation in monkey model . the feasibility , safety , and preliminary effects of chronic vagal stimulation were studied in an aluminagel monkey model . pilot studies to perfect the equipment , determine stimulation thresholds , and insure the comfort and safety of the animals preceded this study . four monkeys were equipped with an indwelling , 2-electrode cuff ( titanium bands spaced 7 mm apart ; silicone encased ; 1.5 cm total length ) in contact around the right vagus nerve ; avoidance of the cardiac branch was confirmed by electrocardiograms . after postsurgical recovery , the intact and awake animals received constant-current stimulation ( 5 ma ; 83 hz , 143 hz , or 50-250 hz randomly ; 0.5-ms pulse width ) at the onset of every spontaneous seizure for the duration of the seizure or every 3 h for 40 s if stimulation had not occurred in the preceding hour . stimulation periods of 2-6 weeks , with differing levels of stimulation , were preceded and followed by at least a 2-week baseline period of no stimulation . during the stimulation periods , the seizure rate decreased to zero in two monkeys and the interseizure intervals became invariable in the remaining two monkeys . these effects carried over temporarily into the poststimulation baseline periods . vagal stimulation had no consistent effects on seizure severity or eeg interictal spikes . histological studies of six vagus nerves were unable to separate electrode cuff damage from any direct effects stimulation may have had on the nerves . although it appears that chronic vagal stimulation is feasible and that epileptogenic processes are influenced , the safety and efficacy of the procedure are still in question . 
an implantable neurocybernetic prosthesis system . the neurocybernetic prosthesis ( cyberonics , inc. ) is an implantable , multiprogrammable pulse generator that delivers constant current electrical signals to the vagus nerve for the purpose of reducing the frequency and/or severity of epileptic seizures . the device is implanted in a subcutaneous chest pocket just below the clavicle , similar to cardiac pacemaker placement . the stimulation signal is transmitted from the prosthesis to the vagus nerve through a stimulation lead . the prosthesis can be programmed using any ibm-compatible personal computer with programming software and a programming wand . the electrodes used in the first group of patients were found to break at an unacceptable rate . design modifications appear to have resolved this problem . 
surgical technique for implantation of the neurocybernetic prosthesis . the surgical technique for the implantation of the neurocybernetic prosthesis is described in detail . this procedure is straightforward and is easily carried out by surgeons familiar with carotid surgery . 
efficacy and safety of vagus nerve stimulation in patients with complex partial seizures . a clinical trial of chronic intermittent vagal stimulation in five patients suggests that the procedure may be safe and effective as adjunctive treatment of medically intractable seizures of partial onset . patients tolerated well the implantation of the neurocybernetic prosthesis and the vagal stimulation without serious physiological or lifestyle changes . stimulation of the vagus nerve either reduced the seizure frequency or decreased the duration or intensity of seizures . adverse side effects were limited to a tingling sensation in the throat and hoarseness during stimulation . a major complication was mechanical interruption of the wire-electrode circuitry , with consequent cessation of stimulation . the small number of patients and the relatively short follow-up period make this a pilot study , but the results are promising . 
vagus nerve stimulation in humans : neurophysiological studies and electrophysiological monitoring . evidence from studies of experimental animals indicates that electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve alters behavioral and electrographic seizure activity . we report on effects of electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve in five patients with medically intractable seizures as part of a clinical trial of chronic vagal stimulation for control of epilepsy . the mechanism of action of the vagal antiepileptic effect is unknown , and it is hoped that analysis of electrophysiological effects of vagal nerve stimulation will help elucidate which brain areas are affected . stimulation of the left vagus nerve in the neck was accomplished with a programmable implanted stimulator . effects of stimulus amplitude , duration , and rate were studied . noncephalic reference recording of the vagus-nerve-evoked potential showed some unusual properties : a scalp negative component occurred with latency of 12 ms , very high amplitude ( up to 60 microv ) , and widespread scalp distribution . field distribution studies indicate that this potential is generated in the neck , in the region of the stimulating electrodes . muscle paralysis confirms this observation . stimulation at various frequencies had no noticeable effect on electroencephalographic ( eeg ) activity regardless of whether the patient was under general anesthesia , awake , or asleep . 
effects of vagal stimulation on experimentally induced seizures in rats . repetitive stimulation of the vagus nerve inhibits chemically induced seizures in dogs . we report here the results and conclusions from studies designed to answer some of the immediate questions raised by this finding . ( 1 ) maximal stimulation of vagal c fibers at frequencies greater than 4 hz prevents or reduces chemically and electrically induced seizures in young male rats . ( 2 ) antiepileptic potency is directly related to the fraction of vagal c fibers stimulated . ( 3 ) vagal stimulation shortens but does not shut down a chemical seizure once it has begun . ( 4 ) in rats , optimal stimulus frequency is approximately 10-20 hz ; duration of stimulus , 0.5-1 ms ; and stimulus strength , 0.2-0 .5 ma/mm2 of nerve cross-section . these results , when taken together with similar results obtained from dogs , monkeys , and humans , strongly suggest that periodic stimulation of the vagus nerve using appropriate stimulation parameters is a powerful method for preventing seizures . the data from the literature suggest that the antiepileptic actions of vagal stimulation are largely mediated by widespread release of gaba and glycine in the brainstem and cerebral cortex . the probable pathway is via projections from the nucleus of the solitary tract to the reticular formation and thence by diffuse projections to the cortex and other areas . intermittent vagal stimulation has the potentiality of reducing the number and/or the intensity of seizures in patients with intractable epilepsy . these results indicate that feasibility studies in humans should be continued and expanded . 
gene mapping and other tools for discovery . genetic mapping provides a means of understanding the molecular basis of inherited diseases whose biochemistry is unknown . adequate pedigrees , informative genetic markers , and accurate identification of the disease phenotype are necessary . for dominant inheritance , mapping studies can be done in a single large pedigree ; the larger the number of affected individuals sampled the better the estimate of recombination between the gene causing the disease and one or more nearby genetic markers . for recessive inheritance , nuclear families with more than one affected sibling provide the best information . the development of many polymorphic dna markers on the human genome has contributed to the success of mapping unknown genes because , as the genome is now densely covered with markers , the probability is good that at least one marker will be linked to the disease locus in a family that is segregating a disease allele . most genetic markers now in use depend upon restriction fragment length polymorphisms ( rflps ) , which are either the result of single-base-pair substitution or the presence of a variable number of tandemly repeated oligonucleotide units at a locus ( vntrs ) . rflps can be recognized by digesting dna with restriction enzymes and separating the fragments by size on an electrophoretic gel . vntrs can vary widely among individuals , and they provide more linkage information than single-site polymorphic markers because family members are more likely to be heterozygous . genetic maps of each chromosome , constructed from linkage data relating marker loci to one another in normal reference families , permit rational choices of markers for disease-mapping studies . 
the epilepsies : clinical implications of the international classification . from the earliest days of neurology , the classification of epileptic seizures into those generalized from the beginning and those with a definable localization in the cortex from the onset has added to knowledge about the function of the nervous system . further elaboration of the classification of seizures into those localized to the six-layered isocortex and those whose elaboration involves regions of the brain involved with consciousness and memory has provided the basic focus for the burgeoning subspecialty of epilepsy surgery . it is increasingly apparent that the etiology of a seizure disorder is of at least equal or of greater significance than the nature of the seizures it spawns and is the product not only of localization in the nervous system but also of causative factors with implications reaching into areas of genetics , higher cortical function , and intelligence . the prognosis concerning the outcome of the epilepsy under consideration is based on all of these facets . this pathophysiological substratum , of which the seizure is only the presenting symptom , constitutes the epilepsy or epileptic syndrome on which the formulation of a rational treatment plan is based . 
experimental models of temporal lobe epilepsy : new insights from the study of kindling and synaptic reorganization . temporal lobe epilepsy is a common localization-related epileptic syndrome characterized by complex partial seizures , ictal and interictal epileptic discharges arising from limbic structures of the temporal lobe , and association with hippocampal sclerosis . temporal lobe epilepsy may follow perinatal injury and febrile convulsions , may be progressive , and frequently becomes refractory to standard antiepileptic therapy . the neurobiology that underlies these features of temporal lobe epilepsy is not known . recent studies in experimental models have provided new insights that may help clarify the relationship of seizures , hippocampal sclerosis , and temporal lobe epilepsy . observations from the study of the hippocampus with kainic acid-induced lesions , the kindling model , and other experimental models of epilepsy have demonstrated that seizures induce structural and electrophysiologic alterations in hippocampal pathways that may lead to increased excitability and could play a role in the development and progression of temporal lobe epilepsy . these alterations include mossy fiber synaptic reorganization , induction of nmda-mediated synaptic transmission , and progressive hippocampal neuronal loss induced by brief kindled seizures . some of the structural alterations induced by kindling have also been observed in the human epileptic temporal lobe , raising the possibility that mechanisms operative in kindling may play a role in the pathogenesis of hippocampal sclerosis and in the syndrome of human temporal lobe epilepsy . 
mesial temporal sclerosis : pathogenesis , diagnosis , and management . mesial temporal sclerosis ( mts ) is probably the most common symptomatic pathologic entity -- alone or mixed with other pathologic features -- for seizures of temporal lobe origin . the pathophysiology of mts , including any genetic influence , needs clarification . a characteristic ictal expression for seizures of mts origin appears not to exist . the majority of patients ( 78 % ) with postresection mts who are seizure-free have tightly localized interictal abnormalities restricted to f7/f8 , sp1/sp2 , t3/t4 , and t5/t6 more than 96 % of the time . mri abnormalities may be seen in 55 % of patients with mts if both " hard " and " soft " criteria are used or in 20 % when only " hard " criteria are used . the neuropsychologic evaluation of patients with mts , which includes intracarotid amobarbital test ( iat ) , may prove to be increasingly useful in identifying patterns of cognitive deficit that correlate with enhancement of both lateralizing and localizing preoperative information . 
post-traumatic epilepsy : cellular mechanisms and implications for treatment . epilepsy complicates severe head trauma . development of persistent seizures appears to correlate with the extent of trauma . although early reports suggested that prophylactic administration of antiepileptic drugs would prevent epileptogenesis , controlled studies have failed to corroborate this assumption . head trauma initiates a sequence of responses that includes altered blood flow and vasoregulation , disruption of the blood-brain barrier , increases in intracranial pressure , focal or diffuse ischemia , hemorrhage , inflammation , necrosis , and disruption of fiber tracts . the presence of an intracranial hematoma has a robust association with the development of post-traumatic epilepsy . extravasation of blood is followed by hemolysis and deposition of heme-containing compounds into the neuropil , initiating a sequence of univalent redox reactions and generating various free radical species , including superoxides , hydroxyl radicals , peroxides , and perferryl ions . free radicals initiate peroxidation reactions by hydrogen abstraction from methylene groups adjacent to double bonds of fatty acids and lipids within cellular membranes . intrinsic enzymatic mechanisms for control of free radical reactions include activation of catalase , peroxidase , and superoxide dismutase . steroids , proteins , and tocopherol also terminate peroxidative reactions . tocopherol and selenium are effective in preventing tissue injury initiated by ferrous chloride and heme compounds . treatment strategies for prevention or prophylaxis of post-traumatic epilepsy must await absolute knowledge of mechanisms . antioxidants and chelators may be useful , given the speculation that peroxidative reactions may be an important component of brain injury responses . however , potential treatment strategies involving gamma-aminobutyric acid ( gaba ) agonists , nmda receptor antagonists , and barbiturates need further scientific assessment . 
transient hyperprolactinemia is associated with a midcycle luteinizing hormone surge . this study demonstrates that lh surge cycles in ivf patients were associated with significantly higher serum prl concentrations than cycles in which a spontaneous lh surge did not occur . our findings support the hypothesis of concomitant lh and prl release at the time of the midcycle gonadotropin surge , as well as that of estrogen sensitization of pituitary lactotropes , and suggest a possible mechanism for transient midcycle hyperprolactinemia . 
local anesthesia for neonatal circumcisions : are family practice residents likely to use it ? dorsal penile nerve block with lidocaine ( dpnb ) is a local anesthetic technique for neonatal circumcision which is both effective and consistent with ethical concerns for infant welfare . as such , it should be included in training programs that prepare residents to care for newborns . to assess the current level of dpnb use by residents in a family practice training program and to identify attitudes and other factors that relate to use , a survey was sent to 127 residents in the department of family practice and community health , university of minnesota . of the 101 respondents , 55 % had used dpnb , and 17 % could be characterized as high users , employing the technique for over one half of the circumcisions they performed . residents with comprehensive understanding of the newborn 's capacity to feel pain were more likely to be using dpnb than their less well-informed counterparts . four factors were identified as predicting use : cooperation of nursery staff for the procedure , accessibility of instruction in pnb technique , belief that pnb is effective in reducing infant pain , and likelihood of parents giving consent for pnb . these results suggest strategies which may be implemented by family practice educators who wish to promote the principles and techniques of dpnb . 
fulminant hepatitis after lisinopril administration . a case of fulminant hepatitis in a patient taking lisinopril for 5 weeks for arterial hypertension is reported . jaundice , fever , myalgia , and marked increase in serum aminotransferase activities occurred after 2 weeks of treatment . continuation of lisinopril administration for 3 weeks after the onset of jaundice was associated with the development of grade iii encephalopathy and a marked decrease in prothrombin and proaccelerin levels . this case strongly suggests that lisinopril may induce acute hepatitis and that continuation of the treatment after the onset of jaundice can lead to life-threatening hepatic failure . 
heterotopic liver transplantation for fulminant wilson 's disease . wilson 's disease may present with severe acute hepatocellular failure . the only effective treatment for fulminant wilson 's disease is liver transplantation , which may lead to reversal of the underlying disease . some patients with cirrhosis who are too ill to undergo orthotopic liver transplantation have been treated with heterotopic liver transplantation . however , use of heterotopic liver transplantation for fulminant hepatocellular failure has not been successful . this case study involves a patient in whom a heterotopic liver transplant was successfully used for treatment of wilson 's disease presenting with fulminant hepatocellular failure . 
pain on common bile duct injection during ercp : does it indicate sphincter of oddi dysfunction ? the reproduction of a patient 's biliary-type pain upon initial injection of contrast material into the common bile duct during diagnostic ercp is a dramatic experience for both patient and physician . the significance of this phenomenon is not clear , but it is touted by some to be a provocative test for sphincter of oddi dysfunction . sphincter of oddi manometry was performed on 224 consecutive patients referred over a 2-year period for evaluation of post-cholecystectomy syndrome and suspected sphincter of oddi dysfunction . all patients received only intravenous diazepam as premedication for ercp . delayed drainage time ( greater than 45 min ) , bile duct dilation ( greater than or equal to 12 mm ) , and a basal sphincter of oddi pressure of greater than 40 mm hg ( mean + / - 3 sd ) were considered elevated . we observed a reproduction of pain in 15 of 224 patients ( 6.7 % ) immediately following contrast injection . there was no correlation between pain on contrast injection and elevated basal sphincter of oddi pressure , delayed common bile duct drainage , bile duct dilation , or abnormal liver enzymes . therefore , we feel that reproduction of the patient 's biliary-type pain associated with contrast injection of ercp is not a provocative test for sphincter of oddi dysfunction . 
atrial fibrillation in the elderly : management update . non-valvular atrial fibrillation is associated with a markedly increased risk of embolic stroke in elderly persons . evidence is accumulating that anticoagulation with warfarin or aspirin may be effective in reducing this risk . 
serious migraine : a study of some epidemiological aspects . data are scant concerning some epidemiological aspects of those severe headaches which cause serious personal and economic morbidity . our purpose was to study the incidence and other epidemiological features of patients suffering from severe migraine exacerbations , in an unselected population . the 64 patients who suffered from severe migraine bouts represented 10.5 % of all the new walk-in neurological consultations in the area covered in this study . 70 % of these patients were between 10 and 39 years old . although females clearly predominated in all ages after fifteen , below this age there was a slight male predominance . the calculated incidence of serious migraine exacerbations was 90 per 100,000 people per year , the corrected incidence for females being 143/100 ,000 and for males 37/100 ,000 . the highest incidence for females was in 15-19 year-olds ( 377/100 ,000 ) and for males in 10-14 year-olds ( 166/100 ,000 ) . our data seem to confirm the periodic nature of this condition since in 80 % of patients the migraine bouts ( ie : groups of attacks ) lasted between two and nine months . also they support the reported existence of genetic and hormonal factors in the susceptibility to migraine exacerbations . our results may help in planning the public health aspect of migraine and add some light to the natural history of this common condition . 
swimmer 's migraine . three cases of sudden , severe headache occurring during swimming are described . a 51-year-old female had been engaging in a swimming exercise for about 20 minutes when she suddenly experienced a pulsating headache in the parietotemporal region , accompanied by nausea . a few days later , she experienced a similar episode , again during swimming practice . a 45-year-old male developed a pulsating headache with nausea immediately after diving into a swimming pool , and had a similar attack during diving practice 1 week later . a 32-year-old male developed a pulsating headache accompanied by nausea while swimming in the sea . in all three cases , blood pressure , pulse rate , neurological findings , cervical spinal x-rays , brain ct scans , and hematological findings were normal and the outcome was good . although these patients ' headaches were diagnosed as benign exertional headache , pathophysiologically they appeared to resemble the headache associated with sexual activity . 
platelet monoamine oxidase activity in female migraine patients . platelet monoamine oxidase activity ( mao ) in a group ( n = 17 ) of white , female migraineurs during an acute migraine attack was similar to both the values obtained for the same group of patients two to three weeks after the headache episode ( pain-free period ) and to the results obtained for a group ( n = 18 ) of sex and race-matched , age-comparable , drug-free healthy volunteers ( blind study ; substrate p-tyramine , 38.7 + / - 5.7 , 41.9 + / - 8.8 and 43.0 + / - 3.4 or p-methoxybenzylamine , 178.9 + / - 11.3 , 177.2 + / - 6.9 and 181.0 + / - 9.7 nmole/hr/10 ( 9 ) platelets + / - sd respectively ) . with each patient serving as its own control , mao activity during the migraine episode and when pain-free failed to show a significant trend . neither a number of other medical conditions nor the use of several medications appeared to significantly influence our results . the present work , while dealing only with a small but well defined patient population , argues against the possible usefulness of platelet mao activity as a biological marker for migraine headaches . 
a protocol for butalbital , aspirin and caffeine ( bac ) detoxification in headache patients . the abuse of the combination drug containing butalbital 50 mg , aspirin 325 mg and caffeine 40 mg ( or bac ) , is commonly recognized by headache specialists as causing headaches . despite this widespread problem , there is not a published treatment regimen for the bac detoxification of patients . i describe such a protocol which was used four times in three patients . these patients fulfilled the diagnostic criteria of the ihs headache classification for headaches induced by chronic substance abuse ( 8.2 ) and analgesics abuse headache ( 8.2.2 ) . these patients took between 150 and 420 bac/month for 2-15 years . two patients had previously undergone inpatient detoxification . one patient unsuccessfully tried detoxification twice as an outpatient . all patients were required to have psychological support prior to hospitalization for this protocol . bac was discontinued . a pentobarbital challenge test corroborated butalbital dosage . the patients were given phenobarbital and caffeine which were tapered over several days . dihydroergotamine ( dhe ) with metoclopramide was used ( raskin ) . propranolol 60 mg bid was started . no narcotics were permitted . after hospital discharge , patients were allowed to continue subcutaneous dhe , as needed . one patient restarted bac use after 8 months without it . the other two patients were still bac free 18 and 14 months after detoxification . 
thermographic findings in cranio-facial pain . this work assesses the differences in the thermographic findings in the craniofacial and neck areas between normal individuals and patients with craniofacial pain or headache , and investigates the influence of muscle contraction on such findings . thermographic records were taken in 10 healthy subjects and 47 patients suffering from craniofacial pain or headache of different kinds . in the patients with painful episodes the record was taken between attacks . in all the normal subjects and in 19 patients lateral thermograms were also taken during and after maximal tooth clenching for three minutes . the majority of the patients , as compared to the normal group , showed some thermal alterations and asymmetry . such alterations seem to be due both to vascular instability and muscle contraction : these two factors may be variably superimposed in the different conditions . in patients with cluster headache or chronic paroxysmal hemicrania the presence on the symptomatic side of a cold spot along the supraorbital area and/or the inner orbital canthus , was a constant finding . we conclude that thermography is useful as an additional diagnostic means in patients with head and face pain , and that the clenching test may increase the amount of information provided . 
dissociation between pain and autonomic disturbances in cluster headache . the relationship between pain and autonomic disturbances in cluster headache was studied in 54 patients whose attack always recurred on the same side , and in 7 others whose attack had affected either side on different occasions . in one of these seven patients , facial flushing and ocular sympathetic deficit was observed on the original side of headaches . in most patients , the orbital region was warmer on the painful side but in three cases this region was cooler during and between attacks . lacrimation and rhinorrhoea were more common in severe attacks , and the temperature difference between the orbits increased with increasing severity of pain . these findings support the view that certain autonomic disturbances in cluster headache are provoked by pain . residual autonomic dysfunction could influence autonomic activity during cluster headache . if so , residual dysfunction on the pain-free side could explain the dissociation between autonomic disturbances and pain observed in a few cases . 
a study of the seasonal variation of migraine . available evidence supports the contention that migraine involves a disturbance in serotonin function . several parameters of serotonin function in humans have been found to vary seasonally and may underlie the seasonal fluctuations observed in many clinical neuropsychiatric phenomena that are thought to involve serotonin dysfunction . we therefore postulated that migraine headaches might also vary seasonally and examined the admissions to our hospital over a 20-year period with a primary diagnosis of migraine . peak admissions were found to occur most frequently in the spring for females in comparison to males ( p less than or equal to 0.04 , chi-square ) . the implications of these findings are discussed . 
clinical characteristics of migraine and episodic tension-type headache in relation to old and new diagnostic criteria . eighty-one patients were diagnosed as having migraine , tension headache or both according to previously used criteria . then we performed a standardized interview to determine the frequency and severity of headache characteristics used in the new operational diagnostic criteria of the international headache society ( ihs ) . in every patient the original diagnosis fulfilled also the ihs criteria , but in 9 patients the criteria were only fulfilled in half or less of the attacks , and applying the ihs criteria they also achieved an additional diagnosis . in one patient these attacks did not fulfill the pain criteria and in 8 ( 4 migraine , 4 tension headache ) they did not fulfill the criteria for accompanying symptoms . overall the ihs criteria are sensitive and specific , but they may possibly be improved with regard to accompanying symptoms . the present study suggests that recording of frequency and graded severity of characteristics using a headache diary may further improve the distinction between the different types of headache . 
fluctuation in timing of upper airway and chest wall inspiratory muscle activity in obstructive sleep apnea . an imbalance in the amplitude of electrical activity of the upper airway and chest wall inspiratory muscles is associated with both collapse and reopening of the upper airway in obstructive sleep apnea ( osa ) . the purpose of this study was to examine whether timing of the phasic activity of these inspiratory muscles also was associated with changes in upper airway caliber in osa . we hypothesized that activation of upper airway muscle phasic electrical activity before activation of the chest wall pump muscles would help preserve upper airway patency . in contrast , we anticipated that the reversal of this pattern with delayed activation of upper airway inspiratory muscles would be associated with upper airway narrowing or collapse . therefore the timing and amplitude of midline transmandibular and costal margin moving time average ( mta ) electromyogram ( emg ) signals were analyzed from 58 apnea cycles in stage 2 sleep in six osa patients . in 86 % of the postapnea breaths analyzed the upper airway mta peak activity preceded the chest wall peak activity . in 86 % of the obstructed respiratory efforts the upper airway mta peak activity followed the chest wall peak activity . the onset of phasic electrical activity followed this same pattern . during inspiratory efforts when phasic inspiratory emg amplitude did not change from preapnea to apnea , the timing changes noted above occurred . even within breaths the relative timing of the upper airway and chest wall electrical activities was closely associated with changes in the pressure-flow relationship . we conclude that the relative timing of inspiratory activity of the upper airway and chest wall inspiratory muscles fluctuates during sleep in osa . 
effect of sleep and sleep deprivation on ventilatory response to bronchoconstriction . to characterize ventilatory responses to bronchoconstriction during sleep and to assess the effect of prior sleep deprivation on ventilatory and arousal responses to bronchoconstriction , bronchoconstriction was induced in eight asthmatic subjects while they were awake , during normal sleep , and during sleep after a 36-h period of sleep deprivation . each subject was bronchoconstricted with increasing concentrations of aerosolized methacholine while ventilatory patterns and lower airway resistance ( rla ) were continually monitored . the asthmatic patients maintained their minute ventilation as rla increased under all conditions , demonstrating a stable tidal volume with a mild increase in respiratory frequency . inspiratory drive , as measured by occlusion pressure ( p0 .1 ) , increased progressively and significantly as rla increased under all conditions ( slopes of p0 .1 vs. rla = 0.249 , 0.112 , and 0.154 for awake , normal sleep , and sleep after sleep deprivation , respectively , p less than 0.0006 ) . chemostimuli did not appear to contribute significantly to the observed increases in p0 .1 . prior sleep deprivation had no effect on ventilatory and p0 .1 responses to bronchoconstriction but did significantly raise the arousal threshold to induced bronchoconstriction . we conclude that ventilatory responses to bronchoconstriction , unlike extrinsic loading , are not imparied by the presence of sleep , nor are they chemically mediated . however , prior sleep deprivation does increase the subsequent arousal threshold . 
rat soleus muscle ultrastructure after hindlimb suspension . the aim of the present investigation was to determine , by quantitative electron microscopy , the effects of a 5-wk tail-suspension period on rat soleus muscle ultrastructure . a marked decline ( -60 % ) in muscle mass occurred . the mean fiber cross-sectional area decreased to a greater extent ( -75 % ) than the capillary-to-fiber ratio ( -37 % ) , leading to a higher capillary density ( +148 % ) after hypokinesia . the total mitochondrial volume density remained unchanged , whereas the volume density of myofibrils was slightly but significantly reduced ( -6 % ) . a shift from subsarcolemmal to interfibrillar mitochondria occurred . interfibrillar mitochondrial volume density was highest near the fiber border and decreased toward the fiber center . an increase in volume density of satellite cells suggested muscle regenerative events . soleus atrophy with tail suspension greatly decreases the muscular volume but leaves the ultrastructural composition of muscle fibers relatively unaffected . 
cardiovascular responses to arm cranking and fns-induced leg exercise in paraplegics . twelve spinal cord-injured males performed arm-crank exercise ( ace ) with and without concurrent functional neuromuscular stimulation ( fns ) of paralyzed leg muscles to investigate the hypothesis that fns would augment cardiovascular performance during submaximal ace . six men who exhibited vigorous isometric contractions of thigh and calf muscles were classed as " responders " to fns ( r ) , and the remaining subjects with poor or nonexistent contractions served as " nonresponder controls " ( c ) . steady-state heart rate and oxygen uptake during ace at 30 , 60 , and 90 w were not appreciably different from the ace + fns condition . however , cardiac outputs in r were augmented by 30 % during fns at rest ( from 4.9 to 6.4 l/min ) , by 18 % during 30-w ace + fns ( from 8.6 to 10.1 l/min ) , and by 28 % during 90-w ace + fns ( from 12.1 to 15.6 l/min ) . similarly , resting stroke volumes were increased by 18 % ( 9 ml ) and by 23 % ( 19 ml ) at 60 w during fns in the r group . calculated total peripheral resistance was reduced at rest and during 90-w ace + fns by approximately 24 % . in contrast , no alterations of circulatory hemodynamics were observed for c subjects . these data indicate that fns-induced contractions of paralyzed leg muscles augment venous return to aid central cardiovascular control during upper-body submaximal exercise in paraplegics . 
results of treatment of displaced patellar fractures by partial patellectomy . the results of partial patellectomy as a treatment for displaced patellar fractures were assessed retrospectively with use of clinical , radiographic , and isokinetic strength-testing criteria . forty patients who had been followed for an average of 8.4 years were studied . in the extremity that had been operated on , the mean active range of motion was 94 per cent , the circumference of the thigh was 100 per cent , and the strength of the quadriceps was 85 per cent of these measurements in the contralateral extremity . the over-all result was rated as excellent in twenty patients , good in eleven , fair in six , and poor in three . there was a significant statistical correlation between the type of fracture and the outcome . the results of this study indicate that partial patellectomy can be an effective treatment for selected patellar fractures . 
comparison of a hybrid with an uncemented total hip replacement . a retrospective matched-pair study . the efficacy of a type of uncemented total hip replacement was compared with that of a hybrid total hip replacement in which an uncemented acetabular and a cemented femoral component were used . twenty-five patients who had had a hybrid total hip replacement were matched , by age , weight , sex , and diagnosis , with twenty-five patients who had had an uncemented total hip replacement . all of the operations were done by one surgeon , who used the same operative approach and the same regimen of postoperative rehabilitation . all of the patients were followed for at least two years . the mean postoperative hip score was 96 points for the hybrid group and 84 points for the cementless group ( p less than 0.02 ) . twenty-four ( 96 per cent ) of the patients who had a hybrid prosthesis reported no or only slight pain postoperatively . in the uncemented group , of the six patients ( 24 per cent ) who reported mild to severe pain , five had pain in the thigh , a limp occurred more frequently , five femoral components had migrated , and four hips needed reoperation . the results with the hybrid replacement that had a cemented femoral component were superior to those with the uncemented femoral component over the relatively brief period for which these patients were followed . 
the patellofemoral joint after total knee arthroplasty without patellar resurfacing . one hundred total knee replacements with a total condylar prosthesis and without patellar resurfacing were followed for a minimum of two years . eighty-four per cent of the knees were affected by osteoarthrosis . graded according to the knee-rating system of the hospital for special surgery , there were eighteen excellent , fifty-three good , eighteen fair , and eleven poor results . at the most recent follow-up , twenty-nine knees ( 29 per cent ) , nine of which were affected by rheumatoid arthritis , were still painful in the patellofemoral area . the height and weight of the patient definitely influenced the amount of patellofemoral pain postoperatively . small patients who had osteoarthrosis were exceptionally free of pain , regardless of sex , age , or level of activity . it seems that the best approach to patellofemoral replacement includes resurfacing of the patella in all patients who have rheumatoid arthritis and in patients who have osteoarthrosis if they have preoperative patellofemoral pain , are more than 160 centimeters tall , weigh more than sixty kilograms , and have advanced changes in the patella at the time of the operation . 
intraoperative assessment of cerebral ischemia during carotid surgery . one of the problems in carotid surgery is the intraoperative detection of brain ischemia . none of the methods ( eeg ; stump pressure ) applied so far have been successful . branston et al . ( 1974 ) found a threshold relationship between cortical cerebral blood flow and cortical somatosensory evoked potential ( sep ) . as the local blood flow fell below about 16 ml/100 g/min a progressive reduction occurred in the amplitude of the cortical evoked potential ( n20/p25 ) , implying a fundamental failure of neuronal function in the somatosensory cortex . we have monitored cortical sep ( somatosensory evoked potential ) during 734 cea 's ( carotid endarterectomies ) in order to find an index of risk of incipient cerebral ischemia during carotid cross-clamping , to determine the need for shunting and the causes of early irreversible neurologic deficits . in 59 cases evaluation of sep was not possible because of technical difficulties . during 586 cea 's no alteration of sep occurred . however , 4 patients had an immediate postoperative neurologic deficit , while the sep remained normal . abnormal sep occurred in 89 cases and in 6 of these an irreversible loss of sep was seen . these patients awoke with a new neurologic deficit . we found a reversible abnormal sep in 83 cases . reversible changes of sep occurred mainly during carotid clamping . the diagnostic sensitivity of intraoperative sep monitoring in predicting neurologic outcome was 60 % with a specificity of 100 % . 
reappraisal of surgical treatment of traumatic transection of the thoracic aorta . since crawford 's report in 1973 , repair of traumatic transection of the thoracic aorta without shunt or bypass has emerged as a popular technique which simplifies the operation and avoids use of heparin . growing evidence , however , indicates that the incidence of paraplegia is higher with this method and may outweigh its advantages . with this in mind , we have examined our experience with 40 patients who underwent repair of aortic transection from 1975-1988 . the operated patients in our series all survived . fourteen were repaired using some type of bypass or shunt , none of whom developed paraplegia . the remaining 26 patients were repaired without a shunt and 9 ( 34.6 % ) developed paraplegia or paraparesis ( p less than 0.02 ) . paraplegia was related to aortic occlusion time ( p less than 0.002 ) . it did not occur in 11 patients with times less than 27 minutes , but happened in 2 of 8 patients with times between 28 and 35 minutes and in all 7 patients with clamp times over 35 minutes . these data suggest that shunt or bypass should be used in most cases of aortic transection . 
clonal origin of pituitary adenomas . as the pathogenesis of pituitary adenomas remains unclear , the tumor clonal composition of these common neoplasms was studied . clonality was determined in female patients by analysis of restriction fragment length polymorphisms of the x-chromosome genes hypoxanthine phosphoribosyl transferase and phosphoglycerate kinase in conjunction with their respective methylation patterns . peripheral lymphocyte dna was screened from 62 female patients undergoing transsphenoidal surgery for pituitary adenoma . eleven patients were heterozygous for the bgli site on pgk , 4 for the bamhi site on hprt , and 1 patient for both sites . of these 16 patients , 3 had acromegaly , 4 had cushing 's disease , 7 had hyperprolactinemia , and 2 were clinically nonfunctional . after surgery , morphological study , including immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy of the pathological specimens , allowed a direct comparison between clonality and tumor cell type . control fresh normal pituitary tissue was found to be polyclonal . the following tumors were monoclonal : all 3 somatotroph adenomas , 4 of 4 lactotroph tumors , 3 of 4 corticotroph cell adenomas , a gonadotroph adenoma , and a nonsecretory adenoma . a mixed plurihormonal adenoma was polyclonal , as were 2 tumors consisting of adenomatous lactotrophs interspersed with nontumorous adenohypophyseal pituitary tissue and one corticotroph adenoma mixed with normal pituitary tissue . functional pituitary adenomas derived from somatotrophs , corticotrophs , or lactotrophs and nonsecretory tumors are monoclonal in nature , suggesting that somatic cell mutations precede clonal expansion of these cells and play a major role in pituitary tumorigenesis . 
severe lidocaine intoxication by cutaneous absorption . a severe lidocaine intoxication by cutaneous absorption is described . data are presented to show a significant absorption of lidocaine through diseased skin when lidocaine cream is used as a local anesthetic . awareness of this route of intoxication might be important in patients in whom neurologic or psychiatric symptoms develop while large amounts of lidocaine cream are being used . 
traumatic asphyxia . traumatic asphyxia is a distinctive clinical syndrome characterized by cervicofacial cyanosis and edema , multiple petechiae , and subconjunctival hemorrhage after a severe crush injury of the thorax or of the upper part of the abdomen . a case of traumatic asphyxia is reported , and its clinical and pathophysiologic features are discussed . 
mandibular osteomyelitis in a patient with sickle cell anemia : report of case . a case is presented in which mandibular osteomyelitis and mental nerve paresthesia developed in a patient with sickle cell anemia . this infection appeared to precipitate a sickle cell crisis . the mechanisms for these patients ' propensity to infection and the diagnosis and management of sickle cell osteomyelitis of the jaws are discussed . 
lip paresthesia associated with a jaw mass . a case is reported in which mandibular swelling and lower lip numbness were the first signs of a metastatic adenocarcinoma of the lung . the development of paresthesia , with or without other oral symptoms , requires that a diagnosis of malignancy be considered until confirmed or ruled out by tissue biopsy . a thorough head and neck examination in all patients , especially in those whose history or habits may indicate increased risk of malignancy is necessary . 
plasma homocyst ( e ) ine levels in men with premature coronary artery disease . plasma homocyst ( e ) ine ( that is , the sum of free and bound homocysteine and its oxidized forms , homocystine and homocysteine-cysteine mixed disulfide ) levels were determined in 170 men ( mean age + / - sd 50 + / - 7 years ) with premature coronary artery disease diagnosed at coronary angiography and in 255 control subjects clinically free of coronary artery disease ( mean age 49 + / - 6 years ) . patients with coronary artery disease had a higher homocyst ( e ) ine level than control subjects ( 13.66 + / - 6.44 versus 10.93 + / - 4.92 nmol/ml , p less than 0.001 ) . high density lipoprotein ( hdl ) cholesterol levels were lower ( 32 + / - 10 versus 46 + / - 13 mg/dl , p less than 0.001 ) and triglycerides levels were higher ( 193 + / - 103 versus 136 + / - 106 mg/dl , p less than 0.001 ) in the coronary disease group . plasma total cholesterol and low density lipoprotein ( ldl ) cholesterol levels were not significantly different between patients with coronary disease and control subjects . the presence of hypertension , smoking or diabetes mellitus did not significantly alter homocyst ( e ) ine levels in the patient or the control group . patients who were not taking a beta-adrenergic blocking drug ( n = 70 ) had a nonsignificantly higher homocyst ( e ) ine level than did patients taking this class of drugs ( n = 100 ) ( 14.67 + / - 8.92 versus 12.95 + / - 3.77 nmol/ml , p = 0.087 ) . by design , none of the control subjects were taking a beta-blocker . no significant correlations were observed between homocyst ( e ) ine and age , serum cholesterol , ldl cholesterol , hdl cholesterol or triglyceride levels . it is concluded that an elevated plasma homocyst ( e ) ine level is an independent risk factor for the development of premature coronary atherosclerosis in men . 
prolonged anginal perceptual threshold in diabetes : effects on exercise capacity and myocardial ischemia . anginal perceptual threshold ( the time from onset of 0.1 mv of st segment depression to onset of angina during treadmill exercise ) is prolonged in diabetic patients with coronary artery disease . in the present study , the functional significance of this perceptual abnormality was evaluated by analysis of its effect on exercise capacity and the severity of myocardial ischemia . treadmill exercise in 32 diabetic patients and 36 nondiabetic control patients showed a close linear correlation between the time to onset of electrical ischemia ( st segment depression ) and exercise capacity in both groups ( r = 0.8 and 0.9 , respectively ; p less than 0.001 ) . however , the slope of the relation was flatter in the diabetic group because prolongation of the anginal perceptual threshold permitted continued exercise as ischemia intensified . the anginal perceptual threshold itself showed a close linear correlation with exercise capacity in the diabetic group ( r = 0.8 , p less than 0.001 ) , although in the nondiabetic group these variables were unrelated . the permissive effect of a prolonged anginal perceptual threshold on exercise capacity is undesirable as reflected by its correlation with ischemia at peak exercise ( r = 0.6 , p less than 0.001 ) : the longer the threshold , the greater the exercise capacity and the more severe the ischemia . indeed , the inverse relation between the severity of ischemia at peak exercise and exercise capacity in the nondiabetic group ( r = 0.4 , p less than 0.02 ) was completely lost in the diabetic group . thus , in diabetic patients with coronary artery disease , anginal perceptual threshold is a major determinant of exercise capacity . 
the role of antihistamine therapy in vascular headaches . migraine ( vascular ) headache is a complex syndrome that involves vascular hyperreactivity . the functions of systemic mediators in migraine are not fully understood . it is unclear which mediators provoke this probably atopic disorder and which represent an attempt to correct an imbalance . however , it has been demonstrated fairly conclusively that increased histamine levels correlate with migraine attacks in susceptible persons . recent studies showing that histamine seems to have many different receptors and to adopt different conformations for different receptors may serve as a useful guide to future scientific investigation . further impetus may come from ongoing studies of h3 histamine receptors , which indicate that h3 agonists offer promise as prophylactic agents for people who suffer from vascular headaches . 
cognitive function testing in comprehensive geriatric assessment . a comparison of cognitive test performance in residential and clinic settings . tests of cognitive function are frequently used in geriatric assessment , but the effect of test setting has rarely been explored . to determine the effect of testing site on the performance of elderly patients undergoing a comprehensive geriatric assessment , we administered the mini-mental state exam to 116 geriatric patients in the clinic and at their residence . their cognitive abilities varied from normal to severely impaired . the patients ' scores were 1.5 + / - 3.6 ( mean + / - sd ) higher at their residence . the clinical importance of a difference in score of 1.5 is not clear . for this reason a second analysis was performed in which a difference in scores of five points or greater between settings was considered clinically meaningful . twenty-five percent ( 29 of 116 ) differed by five points or more . of these 29 patients , 22 ( 76 % ) tested better in the residential setting . these differences were statistically significant ( p = .001 ) . we conclude that the testing site may affect test performance and that in-home assessment may reveal the optimal cognitive function of geriatric patients . 
reference values for the mini-mental state examination ( mmse ) in octo - and nonagenarians the mini-mental state examination ( mmse ) was used in a population survey of all inhabitants of leiden , the netherlands , over 85 years ( n = 1258 ) . in this paper we report on 532 subjects without neurological or psychiatric disease . results show that the median score and lowest quartile cut-off score remain high until the tenth decade ( median score = 28 , lowest quartile cut-off score = 26 ) . thus age , in itself , is not a major limitation in using the mmse . in this study a comparatively low level of education ( the majority had 6 to 7 years of education ) did not affect the results on the mmse in a negative way , nor did we find an association with the use of psychoactive drugs . 
foci of increased t2 signal intensity in mr images of healthy elderly subjects . a follow-up study . an 18-month follow-up study was conducted on 26 healthy elderly subjects with and without foci of increased t2 signal intensity on mr imaging . the subjects did not differ with respect to health status or cognitive performance as measured by the cognitive subscale of the cambridge mental disorders of the elderly examination and the mini mental state examination at follow-up . there was a significant decline in performance on the digit symbol substitution test in subjects who had evidence of t2 foci compared to the performance of subjects without t2 foci . this may indicate that the presence of t2 foci is correlated with subtle difficulties in learning and memory . 
characteristics of an elderly driving population referred to a geriatric assessment center . a retrospective , case-control study was performed to determine the characteristics of elderly drivers referred to an outpatient geriatric assessment center . it was hypothesized that the driving population was operating at a higher cognitive and functional level than nondrivers . one hundred eighty-two subjects meeting the entry criteria were studied . twenty-three percent of the subjects were driving at the time of their assessment . compared to nondrivers , drivers were younger ( p = .0001 ) , were more likely to be male ( p = .003 ) , scored higher on a mental status examination ( p = .0001 ) , and were more independent in physical and instrumental activities of daily living ( p less than .0001 ) . despite these findings , the mean folstein mini-mental score for drivers ( 23.7 ) was below normal ; 40 % of drivers were diagnosed as having alzheimer 's dementia at the time of their evaluation , and over 26 % of the drivers needed help with either dressing or bathing . the frequency of impaired elderly drivers in this referral setting was high . the authors conclude that conditions that affect the driving task are common in geriatric assessment centers . prospective studies of elderly drivers are needed to answer the difficult question of who among the elderly should drive . 
bacterial meningitis in the united states , 1986 : report of a multistate surveillance study . the bacterial meningitis study group . a prospective , laboratory-based surveillance project obtained accurate data on meningitis in a population of 34 million people during 1986 . haemophilus influenzae was the most common cause of bacterial meningitis ( 45 % ) , followed by streptococcus pneumoniae ( 18 % ) , and neisseria meningitidis ( 14 % ) . rates of h. influenzae meningitis varied significantly by region , from 1.9 / 100,000 in new jersey to 4.0 / 100,000 in washington state . the overall case fatality rates for meningitis were lower than those reported in several studies from the early 1970s , suggesting that improvements in early detection and antibiotic treatment may have occurred since that time . concurrent surveillance was also performed for all invasive disease due to the five most common causes of bacterial meningitis . serotypes of group b streptococcus other than type iii caused more than half of neonatal group b streptococcal disease and mortality , suggesting that an optimal vaccine preparation must be multivalent . of the organisms evaluated , group b streptococcus was the second most common cause of invasive disease in persons greater than 5 years old . 
decline in the prevalence of childhood deafness in the jewish population of jerusalem : ethnic and genetic aspects . a longitudinal study was performed on 147 jewish children with bilaterally sensorineural hearing loss of moderately severe to profound degree , born in jerusalem during the eighteen years 1968-85 . the prevalence rate of these children declined during the years 1977-85 , and at the same time the rate of consanguinity of their parents decreased ; this decline was more evident in the genetic group among children with non-ashkenazi ethnic origin . no such decline was found among the ashkenazi children and no consanguinity among parents of these children was recorded . our study supports the assumption that restriction of consanguineous matings may affect the prevalence of genetic deafness in children in a well-defined population . we have tried to remain unbiased and concede certain shortcomings in our present study . 
hoarseness as the sole presenting symptom of foramen magnum meningioma . foramen magnum tumours are rare . they may present with bizarre symptoms and mimic many conditions . we report a presentation with the sole complaint of hoarseness , never previously described in the literature . voice returned to normal after surgical removal of the foramen magnum meningioma . 
compliance , reliability , and validity of self-monitoring for physical disturbances of parkinson 's disease . the parkinson 's symptom diary . previous clinical research in parkinson 's disease has recognized the value of self-monitoring procedures in which patients observe and record the frequency and severity of their own symptoms as these occur within the patient 's social and work environment . we discuss issues of methodology and report a study of compliance , test-retest reliability , and validity with a new self-monitoring instrument , the parkinson 's symptom diary . two recordings of frequency ( loss of balance , hesitation-freezing ) and two ratings of severity ( tremor , difficulty walking ) were made four times daily for one week by patients ( n = 73 ) who were without apparent loss of cognitive or memory functions . a total of 91 % of the diaries received ( 97 % of requested ) met strict compliance criteria so that independent sampling over days could be assumed . test-retest stability over one month was demonstrated for each score ( all spearman rho greater than .85 ) in a representative subsample of 28 patients . criterion validity was demonstrated for each score by an expected pattern of correlations with independently obtained observer ratings of the same or related indices of disease , and by comparison with hoehn and yahr disability stages . by its simplicity , this self-assessment device can be an invaluable complement to traditional methods of clinical and laboratory assessment in the care and evaluation of parkinson patients . 
articulatory impairment associated with tardive dyskinesia . the speech of two patients with tardive dyskinesia was studied , and one neuroleptic-treated patient having no signs of overt tardive dyskinesia served as control . a structured interview , including reading , repetition of sentences , and spontaneous conversation , was performed . a phonetic transcription and analysis of abnormal phonemes was done by a linguist under blind conditions . both patients with tardive dyskinesia had abnormal phonemes whereas the control patient had none . these differences could not be explained by age , direct neuroleptic effect , or neuroleptic exposure time . the abnormal phonemes were all consonants . the authors conclude that tardive dyskinesia may cause articulatory communication problems . 
untying the gordian knot : the genetics of tourette syndrome . a review of the current status of the genetics of tourette syndrome is presented . over the course of the 104 years since gilles de la tourette described the syndrome that bears his name , a body of carefully collected , described , and analyzed data has produced a model of the genetics that implicates a single dominant gene that is variably penetrant in males and females . moreover , the locus of action of this gene is most likely in the dopaminergic system of the midbrain . a systematic search for this gene using recombinant dna techniques is under way . 
dexamethasone increases plasma levels of albendazole . therapy of neurocysticercosis with cysticidal drugs is frequently complicated by the exacerbation of symptoms that follows the inflammation triggered by the acute destruction of cysticerci . treatment of such adverse reactions with dexamethasone is highly effective . however , it has been shown that dexamethasone lowers the plasma levels of praziquantel , thus reducing its cysticidal efficacy . we measured plasma levels of albendazole , another strong cysticidal drug , when dexamethasone was given simultaneously . we found that dexamethasone increased the plasma levels of albendazole by about 50 % ( p less than 0.002 ) ; hence , it seems that cysticercosis and the ensuing inflammation can be treated simultaneously with albendazole and dexamethasone without diminishing the efficacy of the cysticidal drug . 
herpes simplex virus type 2 meningitis without genital lesions : an immunoblot study . two sexually active female patients presented with acute meningitis . the csf abnormalities were severe and persistent . in spite of the absence of genital lesions , serological studies revealed a primary infection by herpes simplex virus type 2 . an immunoblot study revealed intrathecal synthesis of anti-herpes antibodies early in the course of the disease . 
headaches and multiple sclerosis : a clinical study and review of the literature . whether multiple sclerosis ( ms ) can cause headaches is controversial . to clarify the association between headaches and ms we prospectively analyzed 104 consecutive ms patients using detailed headache evaluations . fifty-four patients ( 52 % ) reported headaches , compared with 5 of 35 ( 14 % ) patients initially suspected to have ms but subsequently proven to have other disorders , and 18 of 100 ( 18 % ) matched general neurology patients . the ms patients had tension headaches or vascular headaches of the migraine type ; there was no distinctive " ms headache . " seven of these patients had headaches with their first ms symptoms , but in only one did headaches recur with disease activity . headaches did not correlate with any clinical features of ms. we conclude that an association between headaches and ms may exist . 
fatal or severely disabling cerebral infarction during hospitalization for stroke or transient ischemic attack . six ( 1 % ) of 578 patients admitted for cerebral infarction or transient ischemic attack ( tia ) suffered a fatal or severely disabling in-hospital cerebral infarction following a period of stabilization or improvement lasting more than 1 day . these infarctions were characterized by the sudden onset of stupor or coma and subsequent development of transtentorial herniation due to carotid or middle cerebral artery territory infarction , or widespread brain-stem infarction due to basilar occlusion . only one patient survived . four patients had large-vessel disease documented by doppler , angiography , or at autopsy . each of these six infarcts occurred during the morning hours , 4-9 days after the initial event , 3-8 days after initiation of intravenous heparin , and within 4-8 h after intravenous heparin had been discontinued . no coagulation abnormalities were documented . we believe that these cases indicate that among patients admitted for cerebral infarction or tia , fatal or severely disabling in-hospital cerebral infarction after a period of stabilization or improvement may occur in patients having an initially mild to moderate clinical deficit , that those suffering large artery disease may be at greater risk , and that there may be a relationship between heparin withdrawal and cerebral infarction in some patients . 
unusual blink reflex with four components in a patient with periodic ataxia . characteristic findings in blink reflex are reported in a 55-year-old female with periodic ataxia . the blink reflexes on the side ipsilateral to the stimulation consisted of four components with latencies of 11 , 21 , 35 and 47 ms , instead of the usual two components seen in normal subjects . on the contralateral side , the last three components were also present . the second component was different from the normal r2 response in that its latency was shorter than normal and it did not habituate by stimulation at a rate of 10 hz . in addition , it was more affected by diazepam than the third or fourth components . it is considered that r2 may have consisted of three components and that a shorter latency of the second component could be explained by facilitation . 
treatment of chronic relapsing inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy by cyclosporin a and plasma exchange . a case report . a patient with chronic relapsing inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy was successfully treated with plasma exchanges and cyclosporin a ( csa ) . dynamometric measurements of hand force during the time of csa treatment showed a highly significant correlation between hand force and csa blood levels . the largest influence of csa on hand force occurred 11-13 days after csa uptake . 
alcohol-dependent unilateral vestibular impairment persisting after a closed head injury . a 20-year-old man suffered a closed head injury followed by symptoms of right-sided labyrinthine concussion with complete clinical recovery within 3 weeks . episodic vertigo and ataxic gait occurred after the ingestion of small amounts of alcohol over the next 2 years . electro-oculography revealed a right-sided peripheral type vestibular lesion , only after taking alcohol . this was interpreted as an alcohol-induced impairment of central compensation following an incomplete recovery from right-sided labyrinthine trauma . 
questionable role of cns radioprophylaxis in the therapeutic management of childhood rhabdomyosarcoma with meningeal extension . a series of 15 consecutive children with head and neck nonorbital rhabdomyosarcoma ( rmsa ) with meningeal extension were prospectively treated with chemotherapy consisting of adriamycin ( doxorubicin ; adria laboratory , columbus , oh ) ( adm ) , vincristine ( vcr ) , cyclophosphamide ( cpm ) , and dactinomycin ( dact ) followed by radiotherapy ( 60 gy ) to the primary tumor volume , along with intrathecal methotrexate ( it mtx ) . thirteen of 15 responded to preradiation chemotherapy . four of 13 relapsed . relapse occurred at the level of the primary tumor in three of four . the 3-year progression-free survival ( pfs ) was 59 % , similar to that achieved in a previous series treated with a comparable therapeutic approach that also included whole-brain radiotherapy as a prophylaxis of possible occult meningeal seeding . it is concluded that cns prophylaxis with radiotherapy is questionable in the management of childhood rmsa with meningeal extension . 
magnetic resonance imaging contrast agents : theory and application to the central nervous system . the theoretical aspects of magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging contrast agents are reviewed , and their current applications to the central nervous system ( cns ) and their future applications are discussed . profound differences exist between contrast agents used for mr imaging and computerized tomography ( ct ) . in mr imaging , the contrast agents are not imaged directly but rather act on adjacent protons to shorten t1 and t2 relaxation times . this in turn results in signal intensity changes . the lanthanide metal , gadolinium , in the form of gadopentetate dimeglumine , has been found to be both safe and efficacious as the only currently approved contrast agent for mr imaging . magnetic resonance imaging revolutionized the detection and treatment of disease affecting the brain and spine . initially , it was thought that signal characteristics on mr imaging would allow differentiation of specific pathology . it was soon found that mr studies were able to detect more abnormalities but were less able to characterize them . the recent development of contrast agents for mr imaging has allowed this modality to surpass ct for the evaluation of most cns lesions . at present , contrast-enhanced mr imaging is generally accepted as the study of choice for evaluating acoustic neurinomas , pituitary lesions , meningeal disease , primary and secondary brain tumors , active multiple sclerosis , intradural spinal neoplasms , intramedullary spinal disease , and postoperative states in both the spine and brain . even when contrast-enhanced ct can detect the same abnormalities , evaluation of the lesions in multiple planes on mr imaging can sometimes yield invaluable information , especially prior to surgery . future developments of contrast material for mr imaging include non-gadolinium compounds , intrathecal contrast media , cerebral blood flow and volume evaluation , and , possibly , antibody-labeled contrast agents . 
clinoidal meningiomas . anterior clinoidal meningiomas are frequently grouped with suprasellar or sphenoid ridge meningiomas , masking their notorious association with a high mortality and morbidity rate , failure of total removal , and recurrence . to avoid injury to encased cerebral vessels , most surgeons are content with subtotal removal . without total removal , however , recurrence is expected . recent advances in cranial-base exposure and cavernous sinus surgery have facilitated radical total removal . the author reports 24 cases operated on with vigorous attempts at total removal of the tumor with involved dura and bone . this experience has distinguished three groups ( i , ii , and iii ) which influence surgical difficulties , the success of total removal , and outcome . these subgroups relate to the presence of interfacing arachnoid membranes between the tumor and cerebral vessels . the presence or absence of arachnoid membranes depends on the origin of the tumor and its relation to the naked segment of carotid artery lying outside the carotid cistern . total removal was impossible in the three patients in group i , with postoperative death occurring in one patient and hemiplegia in another . total removal was achieved in 18 of the 19 patients in group ii , with one death from pulmonary embolism . in the two patients in group iii , total removal without complications was easily achieved . 
characterization of periventricular edema in normal-pressure hydrocephalus by measurement of water proton relaxation times . the magnetic resonance longitudinal relaxation time ( t1 ) and transverse relaxation time ( t2 ) of the water proton of the periventricular white and cortical gray matter were measured for 17 control patients and 21 patients with suspected normal-pressure hydrocephalus ( nph ) . of the latter group , 14 showed good response to shunting ( true-nph group ) and seven showed no response ( false-nph group ) . in the true-nph group , both the t1 and the t2 of the periventricular white matter were significantly prolonged compared to the control values , and slowly shortened after cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) shunting . the true-nph group showed significantly longer t1 and t2 of the white matter than did the false-nph group . the t1 and t2 of the white matter were longer than those of the gray matter in this group , which was the reverse of the relationship observed in the control patients . in the white matter of the false-nph group , there was a significant prolongation of t1 only ; no difference was seen in the t2 compared to control values . there was no change in either t1 or t2 of this region after csf shunting . the false-nph group showed no significant difference in either t1 or t2 between the white and the gray matter . there was no difference in either t1 or t2 of the gray matter between the false-nph and control groups or between preshunt and postshunt measurements in each patient group . it is suggested that a distinction between true - and false-nph , which can not be made from the radiographic appearance alone , may be possible from measurement of relaxation times . the mechanism of varied relaxation behavior between two entities may be explained by a difference in properties of the biological water and its environment . 
systems analysis of cerebrovascular pressure transmission : an observational study in head-injured patients . in an observational study in head-injured patients , cerebrovascular pressure transmission was investigated using a systems analysis approach whereby the blood pressure ( bp ) waveform was used as a measure of an input stimulus to the cerebrovascular bed ( cvb ) and the intracranial pressure ( icp ) waveform as the response to that stimulus . the transfer function is a measure of how much pressure is transmitted through the cvb at a given frequency and is calculated using fourier analysis of the pressure waveforms . the transfer function allows quantification of the pressure transmission performance of the cvb , thus providing a basis for comparison between normal and abnormal function . fifteen hundred samples of icp and bp waveforms were collected from 30 head-injured patients via microcomputer . off-line spectral analysis of the waveform database revealed four main classes of transfer function : those with an overall flat transfer function ( curve type 1 ) ; those with an elevated low-frequency response ( curve type 2 ) ; those with an elevated high-frequency response ( curve type 3 ) ; and those exhibiting both an elevated low - and high-frequency response ( curve type 4 ) . curve types 2 and 4 were most often associated with raised icp ( greater than 20 mm hg ) , whereas curve types 1 and 3 were most often affiliated with icp less than 15 mm hg . studies of this type may provide insight into the pathophysiology of the cvb and ultimately aid in the prediction and treatment of raised icp . 
massive increases in extracellular potassium and the indiscriminate release of glutamate following concussive brain injury . an increase in extracellular k + concentration ( [ k + ] c ) of the rat hippocampus following fluid-percussion concussive brain injury was demonstrated with microdialysis . the role of neuronal discharge was examined with in situ administration of 0.1 mm tetrodotoxin , a potent depressant of neuronal discharges , and of 0.5 to 20 mm cobalt , a blocker of ca + + channels . while a small short-lasting [ k + ] c increase ( 1.40 - to 2.15-fold ) was observed after a mild insult , a more pronounced longer-lasting increase ( 4.28 - to 5.90-fold ) was induced without overt morphological damage as the severity of injury rose above a certain threshold ( unconscious for 200 to 250 seconds ) . the small short-lasting increase was reduced with prior administration of tetrodotoxin but not with cobalt , indicating that neuronal discharges are the source of this increase . in contrast , the larger longer-lasting increase was resistant to tetrodotoxin and partially dependent on ca + + , suggesting that neurotransmitter release is involved . in order to test the hypothesis that the release of the excitatory amino acid neurotransmitter glutamate mediates this increase in [ k + ] c , the extracellular concentration of glutamate ( [ glu ] c ) was measured along with [ k + ] c. the results indicate that a relatively specific increase in [ glu ] c ( as compared with other amino acids ) was induced concomitantly with the increase in [ k + ] c. furthermore , the in situ administration of 1 to 25 mm kynurenic acid , an excitatory amino acid antagonist , effectively attenuated the increase in [ k + ] c. a dose-response curve suggested that a maximum effect of kynurenic acid is obtained at a concentration that substantially blocks all receptor subtypes of excitatory amino acids . these data suggest that concussive brain injury causes a massive k + flux which is likely to be related to an indiscriminate release of excitatory amino acids occurring immediately after brain injury . 
cerebrovascular and metabolic effects on the rat brain of focal nd : yag laser irradiation . to investigate the effects of focal neodymium : yttrium-aluminum-garnet ( nd : yag ) laser irradiation ( lambda = 1060 nm ) on regional cerebral blood flow , cerebral protein synthesis , and blood-brain barrier permeability , the parietal brain surface of 44 rats was irradiated with a focused laser beam at a constant output energy of 30 j. survival times ranged from 5 minutes to 48 hours . laser irradiation immediately caused well-defined cortical coagulation necrosis . within 5 minutes after unilateral irradiation , 14c-iodoantipyrine autoradiographs demonstrated severely reduced blood flow to the irradiation site and perilesional neocortex , but a distinct reactive hyperemia in all other areas of the forebrain . apart from a persistent ischemic focus in the vicinity of the cortical coagulation necrosis , blood flow alterations in remote areas of the brain subsided within 3 hours after irradiation . autoradiographic assessment of 3h-tyrosine incorporation into brain proteins revealed rapid onset and prolonged duration of protein synthesis inhibition in perifocal morphologically intact cortical and subcortical structures . impairment of amino acid incorporation proved to be completely reversible within 48 hours . immunoautoradiographic visualization of extravasated plasma proteins using 3h-labeled rabbit anti-rat immunoglobulins-showed that , up to 1 hour after irradiation , immunoreactive proteins were confined to the neocortex at the irradiation site . at 4 hours , vasogenic edema was present in the vicinity of the irradiation site and the subcortical white matter , and , at later stages ( 16 to 36 hours ) , also extended into the contralateral hemisphere . although this was followed by a gradual decrease in labeling intensity , resolution of edema was still not complete after 48 hours . analysis of sequential functional changes in conjunction with morphological alterations indicates that the evolution of morphological damage after laser irradiation does not correlate with the time course and spatial distribution of protein synthesis inhibition or vasogenic edema . although the central coagulation necrosis represents a direct effect of radiation , the final size of the laser-induced lesion is determined by a delayed colliquation necrosis due to persistent perifocal ischemia . extent and severity of ischemia in a zone with initial preservation of neuroglial cells can be explained by the optical properties of the nd : yag laser ; extensive scattering of light within brain parenchyma associated with a high blood-to-brain absorption ratio selectively affects blood vessels outside the irradiation focus . 
long-term evaluation of hemiparkinsonian monkeys after adrenal autografting or cavitation alone . autografts of adrenal medulla were implanted into preformed cavities in the caudate nuclei of four rhesus monkeys with hemiparkinsonism induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1 ,2,3,6 - tetrahydropyridine ( mptp ) . five other hemiparkinsonian monkeys underwent caudate cavitation , but received no tissue implant . all of the animals had marked bradykinesia of the affected arm and stable apomorphine-induced turning before cavitation or implantation . moderate behavioral recovery was seen in all five monkeys with cavitation and two of the three monkey with long-term adrenal autografts ( the fourth adrenal recipient was sacrificed 10 days after grafting ) . the improvement occurred months after the procedure and was not as early or as complete as that seen after fetal dopaminergic grafts . surviving adrenal tissue was found only in the animal that showed no behavioral recovery . the other two adrenal autograft recipients ( with no surviving adrenal medulla ) and all of the animals with cavitation had ingrowth of dopaminergic fibers from the area olfactoria and nucleus accumbens into the caudate , oriented toward the cavity . these findings show that the mechanism of improvement after adrenal medullary implants for parkinsonism is not dopamine secretion by chromaffin cells , but may be related to the sprouted host fibers . the results also indicate that the limited recovery after adrenal implants in parkinsonian patients may be a result of the cavitation , and not necessarily the result of tissue implantation . 
cerebral venous oxygen content as a measure of brain energy metabolism with increased intracranial pressure and hyperventilation . in order to test the hypothesis that the cerebral arteriovenous oxygen difference ( avdo2 ) and venous oxygen content ( vo2 ) could be used to monitor brain energy metabolism in the setting of increased intracranial pressure ( icp ) . 12 cats were studied with 31p-magnetic resonance spectroscopy . six cats were subjected to intracranial hypertension by cisternal infusion of saline . energy failure occurred at an average avdo2 of 8.4 + / - 3.2 vol % ( + / - standard deviation ) ( range 4.7 to 14.7 vol % ) . the vo2 at the point of metabolic failure averaged 1.45 + / - 0.6 vol % and extended over a narrower range ( 1.0 to 2.9 vol % ) . in an additional six cats , icp was raised to the threshold of metabolic failure and hyperventilation was then instituted ( pco2 10 to 18 torr ) . five of the six cats experienced a drop in vo2 with hyperventilation . in two of these animals , hyperventilation resulted in a vo2 of 1.1 vol % or less and in metabolic failure as evidenced by a fall in phosphocreatine . it is concluded that a vo2 of less than 2 vol % is correlated with brain ischemia and that the safety of hyperventilation in the setting of increased icp can be monitored by the use of vo2 . 
evidence of a local immune activation in cystic brain tumors . the fluid of cystic brain tumors was characterized with regard to the protein content . in most malignant tumors , the concentrations of immunoglobulins g and m ( igg and igm ) were higher relative to other proteins in the cyst fluid than in the serum of the same patient . a markedly elevated ratio of monomeric to pentameric igm was detected in the cyst fluid of two patients with glioblastomas . the results indicate a local immunoglobulin synthesis in malignant cystic brain tumors . it is hypothesized that higher-than-expected concentrations of igg and igm in cyst fluid as compared to plasma are a sign of an ongoing immune response triggered by the tumor . 
epithelial cyst of the fourth ventricle . case report . a case of epithelial cyst in the fourth ventricle of a 4-year-old child is described . a single epithelial layer with a clear basement membrane lining the cyst wall was observed . there were no prominent histological findings to suggest a pathogenesis for this cyst based on immunohistochemical or ultrastructural studies ; however , the cyst fluid contained significant amounts of carcinoembryonic antigen . it is considered that the epithelial layer lining the cyst wall was possibly of endodermal origin . 
recurrence of acoustic neurilemoma as a malignant spindle-cell neoplasm . case report . a 75-year-old man presented with a right cerebellopontine angle tumor 11 months after complete macroscopic resection of a right acoustic neurilemoma . histological examination of the recurrent tumor showed a malignant spindle-cell neoplasm with positive staining for s-100 protein . the patient had no stigmata of von recklinghausen 's disease . it is proposed that this recurrence represents progression from a benign to a malignant acoustic nerve-sheath tumor , an event that is extremely rare outside the clinicopathological context of neurofibromatosis . 
toxoplasmosis of the conus medullaris in a patient with hemophilia a-associated aids . case report . toxoplasma gondii has been reported to be the most common cause of focal brain lesions in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . a case of intramedullary toxoplasmosis of the conus medullaris is reported in a patient with hemophilia a-associated aids . the diagnosis is discussed , with particular emphasis on the magnetic resonance imaging appearance . 
subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by a fungal aneurysm of the vertebral artery as a complication of intracranial aneurysm clipping . case report . intracranial aneurysms are an uncommon manifestation of fungal infection . a case is described in which the formation of an aneurysm followed an intracranial intraoperative aspergillus infection attributable to a long period of preoperative antibiotic medication and immunosuppressive therapy with steroids . 
prevention of cardiovascular disease : risks and benefits of aspirin . aspirin has been tested for its benefit in preventing cardiovascular disease in randomized trials in three categories of patients . in secondary prevention among those with a history of myocardial infarction ( mi ) , stroke or transient cerebral ischemia , or unstable angina pectoris , 25 randomized trials demonstrated significant reductions from aspirin of 25 % for the occurrence of an " important vascular event " ( nonfatal mi , nonfatal stroke , or vascular death ) , 32 % for nonfatal mi , 27 % for nonfatal stroke , and 15 % for vascular mortality . among those evolving an mi , the second international study of infarct survival ( isis-2 ) showed a significant reduction of 23 % in five-week vascular mortality among those started on a one-month regimen of daily aspirin within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms of suspected mi . aspirin also significantly reduced reinfarction , nonfatal stroke , and important vascular events . finally , in primary prevention , the us physicians ' health study ( phs ) showed a significant 44 % reduction in the occurrence of a first mi among apparently healthy male physicians ; numbers of strokes and vascular deaths were insufficient to permit conclusions for these endpoints . thus , aspirin is of clear benefit in reducing mi , stroke , and vascular death in secondary prevention and among those evolving an mi . it is also beneficial in the primary prevention of mi among men over 40 , but data concerning its effects on stroke and vascular death remain inconclusive . 
speech , velopharyngeal function , and hearing before and after orthognathic surgery . articulation , voice , resonance , hearing sensitivity , and middle ear function were examined in 34 patients before and 3 , 6 , 9 , and 12 months after orthognathic surgery . thirty of the 34 patients had articulation errors before surgery . errors on the sibilants / s / and / z / occurred most frequently , followed by those on / j , zh , ch / and / sh / . errors were predominantly distortions with both visual and acoustic components . after surgery , articulation improved spontaneously in the absence of intervention . most of the preoperative articulation errors were eliminated by 3 months postoperative , but , thereafter , a gradual decline was noted so that by 12 months , errors occurred on / s / and / z / . voice , resonance , velopharyngeal port area , and hearing sensitivity were not altered by surgery . this study suggests that severe skeletal malocclusions requiring surgical correction have deleterious effects on the patients ' articulation of consonants and that surgical alteration leads to the correction of most of these errors . 
very low birth weight children : behavior problems and school difficulty in a national sample we addressed three questions concerning the behavioral and academic status of low and very low birth weight infants through a secondary analysis of the 1981 national health interview survey -- child health supplement : ( 1 ) in children born with very low birth weight , what is the risk of behavior problems and school difficulty compared with that in heavier low birth weight and normal birth weight children ? ( 2 ) what are the correlates of school difficulty ? ( 3 ) are behavior problems associated with school difficulty when variables are controlled for these correlates ? the analysis revealed that 34 % of very low birth weight children could be characterized as having school difficulty , compared with 20 % and 14 % of the other groups , respectively , and that they were more likely to have higher scores on the hyperactive subscale of the behavior problems index . although a broad array of sociodemographic factors correlated with school difficulty , very low birth weight and hyperactivity scores contributed independently to the risk of academic problems . we conclude that very low birth weight infants are at risk of having school problems that are in part associated with hyperactive behavior . 
serial magnetic resonance imaging in neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy . we prospectively performed magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) studies during the neonatal period , and at 4 and 8 months of age , on 15 term infants with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy , and compared the results with their neurodevelopmental outcome at 18 months of age . cerebral palsy developed in nine infants , two infants were classified as having abnormalities of tone and delayed motor milestones that were suggestive of cerebral palsy , and four infants were normal . structural abnormalities , delayed myelination , or a combination of the two were detected with mri at 8 months of age in all nine infants with later development of cerebral palsy . three of the four normal infants and one infant with suggestive abnormalities had normal serial mri findings . each of the remaining two infants ( one normal , one with suggestive abnormalities ) had isolated persistent ventricular dilation on all three mri studies . our results suggest that 8 months appears to be the earliest time at which mri findings correlate well with later adverse neurodevelopmental outcome in this population . 
intrapartum , intranasal cocaine use and acute fetal distress . a case report . intrapartum , intranasal cocaine was used for relief of labor pains by a healthy woman with an uncomplicated pregnancy . fetal hypoxemia and distress followed the event . a causal relationship between the intrapartum use of cocaine and the fetal distress was postulated . cocaine abusers could benefit from hospitalization early in labor for close surveillance and monitoring , thus avoiding exposure to cocaine and its unpredictable systemic effects . 
facial bone fracture associated with carotid-cavernous sinus fistula . out of 989 cases of facial bone fracture , ten patients had carotid-cavernous sinus fistulas ( 1.01 % ) . their ages ranged from 25 to 48 years . seven were male and three female . two of the ten patients had lower third , three patients had middle third , three patients had upper third , and two patients had combined middle and lower third facial bone fractures . the signs and symptoms of a fistula appeared from the first postinjury day up to 50 days after the injury ( mean , 21 days ) . four patients had symptoms after operation for facial bone fracture . most fistulae were identified by arteriography before treatment . followup ranged from 1 year , 8 months , to 5 years , 9 months ( mean , 2 years , 9 months ) . one patient had a malocclusion . nine patients had complete resolution of their bruits . complications included unilateral complete visual loss ( two ) , csf rhinorrhea ( two ) , and stroke in one of the two csf rhinorrhea patients . one patient expired due to a severe head injury , and there was one death from an unrelated cause . 
alcoholic blackouts : legal implications . alcoholic blackouts are defined as the temporary , complete inability to form long-term memory as the result of a high blood alcohol level . this means that a neuron-to-neuron system has been blocked . since that is the case , such central nervous dysfunction should have legal implications , both from the blackout itself and also from the fact that this degree of neural interference in one system is at least suggestive that other dysfunction may be present . the subject of blackouts is updated with recent developments in neuroscience . the legal significance of the blackout is examined in enough depth to allow for further discussion and exploration . 
enveloping the bladder with displacement of flap of the rectus abdominis muscle for the treatment of neurogenic bladder . neurogenic bladder is a frequent occurrence . a new surgical technique has been designed and was used successfully in 18 patients with ideal results . the key point of the operation is to turn over a flap of rectus abdominis muscle to envelop the bladder . contraction of the muscle flap and the abdominal muscles would enhance voiding ability . in the meantime , the bladder is displaced forward and the resultant change in the bladder-posterior urethral angle also favors voiding . since the bladder is near the anterior abdominal wall manual compression during voiding is made easier . all of these advantages greatly facilitate voiding . 
urinary retention due to sacral myeloradiculitis : a clinical and neurophysiological study . we report 5 cases of sacral myeloradiculitis presenting with transient urinary retention . neurophysiological testing , including bulbocavernosus reflex , pudendal evoked response and external anal sphincter electromyography , was performed . parasympathetic pelvic nerves , pudendal nerves as well as the spinal cord seem to be involved to various degrees in this infrequent disorder . 
management of children with myelodysplasia : urological alternatives . recent reports have suggested that the prophylactic use of clean intermittent catheterization in selected infants with myelodysplasia and with normal upper tracts may prevent their deterioration . the selection of these patients at risk depends on urodynamic criteria . we reviewed our experience with clean intermittent catheterization instituted when upper tract deterioration was found . of 130 patients with myelodysplasia followed at our clinic 25 ( 19 % ) had or presented with radiological upper urinary tract deterioration . a total of 21 patients had vesicoureteral reflux and 4 had hydronephrosis without reflux . treatment consisted of clean intermittent catheterization alone in 5 patients and combined with anticholinergic medication in 16 . four patients with no post-void residual urine were carefully observed without intervention . urodynamic evaluation was performed selectively in 11 of these 25 patients for persistence of upper urinary tract deterioration or urinary incontinence after institution of treatment . of the 21 children with reflux 19 ( 90 % ) had resolution or improvement for an average followup of 47 months . hydronephrosis completely resolved in the 4 patients without reflux . thus , the over-all resolution or improvement rate was 92 % for an average of 41 months . although these excellent results may not be superior to the prophylactic use of clean intermittent catheterization , they validate the assumption that upper tract deterioration can be reversed . the application of current urodynamic selection criteria may result in overtreating a significant number of infants who otherwise may not have upper tract deterioration . further refinements in these criteria may be necessary to select better not only patients at risk but also to determine the frequency of imaging necessary in this urologically heterogeneous population . in addition , careful consideration should be given to urethral dilation as a third and equally viable alternative to prevent upper tract deterioration . 
reverse coitus : mechanism of urethral injury in male partner . reverse coitus , a rarely used sexual position , makes the male urethra more vulnerable to injury from the pubic arch and symphysis pubis of the female partner . severe pain , bleeding and immediate detumescence were observed in 3 patients . the lesion usually occurred at the fossa navicularis , responded well to conservative management and did not hinder micturition . potency has been well preserved in all 3 patients . 
the effect of an alpha-2 agonist on bladder function and cord histology after spinal cord injury [ retracted by weiss r , tomasula jj , sotologo jr jr . in : j urol 1991 aug ; 146 ( 2 ) :426 ] spinal injury in cats is accompanied by urinary bladder and hind limb dysfunction . ten cats subjected to spinal contusion at the ninth thoracic segment were treated with guanabenz ( an alpha-2 agonist ) intraperitoneally ( 0.65 mg . / kg . ) three hours after injury , and twice daily for eight weeks . an additional six spinal cats were untreated and served as controls . urodynamic studies were performed on a weekly basis on all animals . guanabenz modified the vesico-somatic reflex : detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia was either ablated or abolished . in contrast , the controls demonstrated detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia , high residual urine , and spasticity below the lesion . histological evaluations of the spinal cords revealed that the six paraplegic animals ( untreated ) suffered marked cavitation of the cord and complete destruction of the grey matter . the five incomplete paraplegic animals ( treated ) showed minimal cavitation with some preservation of the grey matter . the five ambulators ( treated ) demonstrated some distortion of grey matter with preservation of white matter . treatment with guanabenz post traumatic cord injury results in decreased cord cavitation . detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia is diminished and hind limb function is improved in treated animals . 
diclofenac-associated hepatotoxicity diclofenac sodium , a phenylacetic acid-derived nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug ( nsaid ) recently released in the united states , was associated with the development of significant hepatitis in seven patients , with one associated death . signs and symptoms developed within several weeks of initiation of drug use and generally resolved 4 to 6 weeks following discontinuation of use of the drug . the only patient rechallenged with the drug developed a recurrence of her hepatic abnormalities . in one patient , fatal , fulminant hepatitis developed despite early withdrawal of the drug . review of the european literature disclosed three additional fatalities associated with diclofenac therapy . it is unclear whether the incidence of hepatotoxicity is higher with this drug compared with other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs . careful patient monitoring is advised , and prompt discontinuation of the drug is suggested when signs or symptoms of liver disease develop . 
parathyroid hormone-related peptide in lactation and in umbilical cord blood . parathyroid hormone-related peptide ( pthrp ) is expressed in lactating rat mammary glands after suckling , as a result of increases in prolactin rather than suckling per se . in addition , pthrp produced in the fetal parathyroid glands and placenta may be responsible for stimulation of placental calcium transport . in the current study , we used a radioimmunoassay for human pthrp to measure levels of the peptide in ( 1 ) human breast milk , cow 's milk , and two infant formulas ; ( 2 ) sequential plasma samples in prepartum and postpartum lactating women ; ( 3 ) women with pathologic hyperprolactinemia ; and ( 4 ) human umbilical cord blood . in normal subjects , plasma pthrp levels ranged from less than 2 to 5 pmol/liter . in contrast , human breast milk contained substantially increased levels of immunoreactive pthrp . similar elevations were found in cow 's milk and in one infant formula . column chromatography of breast milk demonstrated that pthrp immunoreactivity included a region of adenylate cyclase stimulating activity , consistent with the presence of biologically active pthrp . plasma prepartum pthrp values did not differ from corresponding postpartum values in lactating women . women with hyperprolactinemia had a mean plasma pthrp value in the high-normal range . umbilical cord blood had considerably suppressed parathyroid hormone values but pthrp levels that were indistinguishable from those in normal human plasma . thus , pthrp is present in high concentrations in breast milk but apparently does not gain access to the maternal circulation in significant amounts . in addition , women with pathologic hyperprolactinemia seem not to have increased levels of circulating pthrp . 
randomised , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of nimodipine in acute stroke . trust study group . the value of oral nimodipine 120 mg per day for acute stroke was assessed in a randomised , double-blind , placebo-controlled multicentre study of 1215 patients . the primary end-point was independence after 6 months , defined as a score of 60 or more on an activities of daily living ( adl ) scale , the barthel index . patients were entered into the trial if they were aged over 40 , became hemiparetic in the previous 48 h , were conscious , were able to swallow , and had been living independently before the stroke . at 6 months , 55 % of the nimodipine group and 58 % of the placebo group were independent , the odds ratio for independence on nimodipine being 0.88 ( 95 % confidence limits 0.70-1 .10 ) . for mortality the odds ratio with nimodipine was 1.22 ( 95 % confidence limits 0.95-1 .57 ) . adl and neurological scores also suggested delayed recovery in the nimodipine group at 3 weeks . the results do not support the case for oral nimodipine therapy 120 mg per day starting within 48 h of the stroke , for patients with acute stroke . 
national general practice study of epilepsy : newly diagnosed epileptic seizures in a general population . the national general practice study of epilepsy is a prospective population-based cohort study of 1195 patients with newly diagnosed or suspected epileptic seizures . at the time of initial classification ( 6 months after notification ) , 104 patients were excluded . of the remaining 1091 patients , 220 ( 20 % [ 95 % confidence interval 18-23 % ] ) had febrile seizures , 564 ( 52 % [ 49-55 % ] ) definite epileptic seizures , and 228 ( 21 % [ 19-23 % ] ) possible epilepsy . in the definite epilepsy group the proportions of males and females were similar , 25 % ( 21-28 % ) were younger than 15 years and 24 % ( 21-28 % ) were 60 years or older . the definite seizures were classified as cryptogenic in 62 % ( 58-66 % ) , remote symptomatic in 21 % ( 18-25 % ) , and acute symptomatic in 15 % ( 12-18 % ) . the aetiology of epilepsy was vascular disease in 15 % ( 12-18 % ) and tumour in 6 % ( 4-8 % ) . among older subjects the proportion with an identifiable cause was much higher : 49 % ( 41-58 % ) were due to vascular disease and 11 % ( 6-16 % ) to tumour . only 252 ( 45 % [ 41-49 % ] ) of the 564 patients with definite epileptic seizures were registered at the time of their first seizure . 52 % ( 48-56 % ) of the patients had partial or secondarily generalised seizures , and only 39 % ( 35-43 % ) seizures generalised from the outset . 
national general practice study of epilepsy : recurrence after a first seizure in the national general practice study of epilepsy 564 patients classified as having definite seizures have been followed up for 2-4 years . 67 % ( 95 % confidence interval 63-71 % ) had a recurrence within 12 months of the first seizure , and 78 % ( 74-81 % ) had a recurrence within 36 months . seizures associated with a neurological deficit presumed present at birth had a high rate of recurrence ( 100 % by 12 months ) , whereas seizures that occurred within 3 months of an acute insult to the brain , such as head injury or stroke , or in the context of an acute precipitant such as alcohol , carried a much lower risk of recurrence ( 40 % [ 29-51 % ] by 12 months ) . other factors affecting the risk of recurrence were age-the highest risk being for patients under the age of 16 ( 83 % [ 77-89 % ] by 36 months ) or over the age of 59 ( 83 % [ 76-90 % ] by 36 months-and type of first seizure-the risk of recurrence being much higher for patients with simple partial or complex partial seizures ( 94 % [ 90-99 % ] by 36 months ) than for those with generalised tonic clonic seizures ( 72 % [ 67-77 % ] by 36 months ) . 
cerebral malaria in children cerebral malaria is a rapidly progressive encephalopathy with up to 50 % mortality . a cardinal feature is the massing of red cells containing mature plasmodium falciparum within the cerebral capillaries . adhesion of these parasitised red cells to endothelium , an event which may initiate cerebral malaria , is being studied at the molecular level . however , the relevance of these studies to the pathophysiology and treatment of human cerebral malaria is uncertain . although chloroquine is still widely used to treat falciparum malaria , resistance has spread to most of the endemic zone . quinine is emerging as the only effective treatment for cerebral malaria , though resistance to this drug threatens to become a problem . alternative drugs are urgently needed . 
auditory-evoked responses in benign intracranial hypertension syndrome . in this study , auditory brainstem-evoked responses were conducted on 28 patients with otologic symptoms ( pulsatile tinnitus , hearing loss , aural fullness ) secondary to benign intracranial hypertension syndrome . abnormalities consisting mainly of prolonged interpeak latencies were detected in one third of these patients . it is speculated that the pathophysiologic mechanisms responsible for these auditory brainstem-evoked abnormalities are stretching-compression of the cochlear nerve and brainstem caused by the intracranial hypertension and/or primary edema of the same structures due to the benign intracranial hypertension syndrome itself . normalization or improvement was noticed in the majority of the patients after management . since the number of patients in this study is small , it is felt that the diagnostic and prognostic value of this test needs further evaluation . 
the efficacy of brainstem auditory evoked potentials in acoustic tumor surgery . as the identification of patients with small acoustic neuromas and salvageable hearing increases , intraoperative auditory nerve monitoring has been used increasingly in an attempt to improve the hearing preservation rate . far-field recordings obtained by brainstem auditory evoked potentials ( baep ) , at times enhanced by electrocochleography , have become a standard method of intraoperative auditory nerve assessment . to evaluate the usefulness of this monitoring technique , the hearing preservation results of a series of unmonitored acoustic tumor removals were compared to a series of patients monitored via the standard brainstem auditory evoked potentials . with comparable average tumor sizes , 4 of 7 unmonitored patients had hearing preserved at preoperative levels compared to 4 of 9 monitored patients . neither preoperative baep assessments nor absolute tumor size were predictive of hearing preservation . this report brings into question the effectiveness of far-field intraoperative baep monitoring during acoustic tumor resection and suggests that direct auditory nerve monitoring may be more appropriate . 
circulatory and thermal adjustments to prolonged exercise in paraplegic women . the circulatory and thermal responses to 90 min of wheelchair ergometer exercise were examined in five wheelchair dependent ( wd ) women with low level spinal dysfunction and five able-bodied ( ab ) women who served as a comparison group . metabolic rate during exercise was 221 w for wd and 255 w for ab ( p greater than 0.05 ) . oral temperature ( tor ) , mean skin temperature ( tsk ) , oxygen uptake ( vo2 ) , heart rate ( hr ) , and cardiac output ( qc ) were assessed periodically throughout the exercise period . ambient conditions were 24-25 degrees c and 38-52 % relative humidity . a significant group x time interaction was found for tor ( p less than 0.001 ) and tsk ( p less than 0.001 ) . tor of the wd group steadily increased during the exercise , whereas the ab group showed a stable tor . tsk of wd increased rapidly during the first 5-10 min of exercise and continued to rise at a slower rate throughout the exercise . in contrast , tsk of ab rose to a peak during the first 10 min and then showed a decreasing trend . vo2 and hr remained stable in both groups throughout the exercise period . following an initial increase in qc from minute 10 to minute 20 in both groups , values for wd continually decreased until qc at 80 min was 14 % lower than at 10 min . the findings suggest that the wd women had greater thermoregulatory strain than the ab women as indicated by a higher tor and tsk and by an inability to maintain qc due to paralysis of the lower limbs and perhaps an increase in cutaneous blood volume . 
coccidioidomycosis during human immunodeficiency virus infection . a review of 77 patients . through a retrospective review , we identified 77 previously unreported cases of coccidioidomycosis during hiv infection . patients were classified into 1 of 6 categories based on their primary clinical presentation : 20 had focal pulmonary disease ( group 1 ) , 31 had diffuse pulmonary disease ( group 2 ) , 4 had cutaneous coccidioidomycosis ( group 3 ) , 9 had meningitis ( group 4 ) , 7 had extrathoracic lymph node or liver involvement ( group 5 ) , and 6 has positive coccidioidal serology without a clinical focus of infection ( group 6 ) . coccidioidal serologies were positive on initial testing in 83 % of the patients in whom such serologic testing was performed . sera from 39 % of patients were positive for tp antibodies while 74 % had cf antibodies . eleven of 12 seronegative patients had pulmonary disease ( group 1 or 2 ) . serologic results of other patients sent to a single reference laboratory were similar , with 26 % positive for immunodiffusion tp antibodies and 79 % positive for immunodiffusion cf antibodies . for the 77 patients in this study , the cd4-lymphocyte count was below 0.250 x 10 ( 9 ) cells/l in 46 of the 55 patients who had this test performed , and a low cd4 count was significantly associated with mortality ( p less than 0.01 ) . at the time of follow-up , 32 of the 77 patients ( 42 % ) had died . there were significantly more deaths in those with diffuse pulmonary disease ( group 2 ) than in other groups ( p less than 0.001 ) . amphotericin b , ketoconazole , fluconazole , and itraconazole were all used as antifungal therapies . outcome could not be related to the therapy used . of note , 3 patients developed coccidioidomycosis while receiving ketoconazole for other conditions . 
extrapulmonary pneumocystosis : clinical features in human immunodeficiency virus infection . pneumocystis carinii infection is reported with increasing frequency as a cause of disease outside of the respiratory tract in patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . extrapulmonary pneumocystosis is not limited to patients in any discrete risk group for hiv infection . patients with hiv infection who develop extrapulmonary pneumocystosis frequently do not have concurrent p. carinii pneumonia . signs and symptoms of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis are nonspecific but when present are frequently referable to the tissues or organs involved . extrapulmonary pneumocystosis can be diagnosed by examination of tissue biopsies from affected sites using standard histologic techniques . therapy with antimicrobial agents used to treat p. carinii pneumonia has been effective in some patients . an association between use of aerosolized pentamidine for prevention of p. carinii pneumonia and development of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis has been suggested but remains unconfirmed . other factors such as the use of zidovudine and duration of immunodeficiency may also be important to the pathogenesis of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis . further studies are needed to better identify risk factors that may predispose patients to the development of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis . 
responses of intercostal muscle biopsies from normal subjects and patients with myasthenia gravis . in order to evaluate the mechanisms of weakness in muscles of patients with myasthenia gravis ( mg ) , intercostal muscle biopsies were obtained from 9 normal subjects and 6 mg patients , and the compound muscle action potential ( ap ) and tension responses to nerve and muscle stimulation , and contracture responses on exposure to caffeine , were monitored in vitro . in normal muscle , on stimulation of the nerve or muscle at 30 to 100 hz , the ap responses showed decrement in amplitude , one-third of which was attributable to failure of neuromuscular transmission and two-thirds to failure of muscle membrane excitation . on stimulation at 1 to 5 hz , the ap responses showed very little decrement , while the contractile responses showed significant fade in tension , due to failure of e-c coupling or contractility . in muscle from patients with generalized mg , stimulation of the nerve at all frequencies ( 1 to 100 hz ) caused much greater decrement in aps and fade in tension responses than in normal muscle , due mainly to failure of neuromuscular transmission . however , at 100 hz , 40 % of the decrement in aps was due to failure of muscle membrane excitation , and at 1 to 5 hz , 40 % of the fade in tension was due to failure of e-c coupling or contractility , as in normal muscle . on direct stimulation the contraction and half-relaxation times were slower and the tetanic tension was smaller than in normal muscle , especially in the mg patient with thymoma . caffeine-induced contractures were smaller in mg muscle than in normal muscle . these results indicate that while the weakness of mg muscle is due mainly to failure of neuromuscular transmission , it is also partly due to reduced e-c coupling or contractility . 
sensitivity for detecting fibrillation potentials : a comparison between concentric and monopolar needle electrodes . the sensitivity of monopolar and concentric electrodes for detecting fibrillation potentials ( fp ) has never been formally compared . we studied 35 muscles with fp , sampling 20 sites each with concentric and monopolar needles . the concentric needle identified 0.88 + / - 3.44 ( mean + / - standard deviation ) more sites with spontaneous activity . although statistically significant ( wilcoxon signed rank test p less than .03 ) , this difference in sensitivity did not appreciably affect diagnostic interpretation . subjects described the concentric needles as more painful . needle insertions in 25 other muscles demonstrated that needle movement generated the majority of fp . we suggest that the increased tissue injury caused by concentric needles may account for both their increased sensitivity and discomfort . 
a review of techniques employed to estimate the number of motor units in a muscle . being the smallest functional units under neural control , motor units play an integral role in muscle physiology . however , at the present time , there does not exist any widely accepted technique for quantifying or estimating the number of motor units in a muscle . specifically , the existing techniques are the increment-counting technique , a technique based on spike-triggered averaging , and a macro-emg based technique which vary in invasiveness from noninvasive to highly invasive , respectively . we discuss each of these techniques , along with their associated shortcomings , in detail . 
spatial dispersion of magnetic stimulation in peripheral nerves . to assess the longitudinal dispersion of the stimulus induced by the magnetic coil , collision experiments were performed in seven normal ulnar nerves . a supramaximal electrical stimulus s1 was delivered at the wrist , and followed by a supramaximal stimulus s2 in the upper arm , which was either electrical ( electrical collision studies ) , or magnetic ( magnetic collision studies ) . the interstimulus interval was varied by 0.2 msec increments from the time of complete cancellation of the s2 evoked motor response onwards , to include the entire span of recovery of that compound motor action potential . collision curves were obtained for both magnetic and electrical stimuli by plotting the amplitude of the motor response elicited by s2 as a function of the interstimulus interval . in all seven normal ulnar nerves , comparison of the collision curves showed that the s2 evoked motor response is restored significantly more slowly when magnetic stimulation is used . this finding is best explained by longitudinal dispersion of the stimulus induced by the magnetic coil relative to conventional electrical stimulation , the large fibers being stimulated further away from the coil than the small ones . this interpretation is confirmed by the findings obtained with the same method in two cases of ulnar neuropathy , and by comparison of different intensities of magnetic stimulation . 
aaem minimonograph # 35 : clinical experience with transcranial magnetic stimulation . we elicited motor evoked potentials ( meps ) using transcortical magnetic stimulation in 150 control subjects aged 14 to 85 years and 275 patients with a variety of diseases . there were no significant side effects . cortex-to-target muscle latencies measured 20.2 + / - 1.6 ms ( thenar ) , 14.2 + / - 1.7 ms ( extensor digitorum communis ) , 9.4 + / - 1.7 ms ( biceps ) , and 27.2 + / - 2.9 ms ( tibialis anterior ) . central motor delay between the cortex and the c-7 and l-5 measured 6.7 + / - 1.2 ms and 13.1 + / - 3.8 ms , respectively . mean spinal cord motor conduction velocity measured 65.4 m/s . mep amplitude expressed as a percentage of the maximum m wave was never less than 20 % of the m wave . a value of less than 10 % is considered abnormal . mep latency increases linearly with age and central motor delay is longer in older subjects . compound muscle action potentials and absolute mep amplitudes decreased linearly with age . in multiple sclerosis ( ms ) , mep latency and central delay were often very prolonged . the mep was more sensitive than the sep in ms. in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis , mep latencies were only modestly prolonged ; the characteristic abnormality was reduced amplitude . when pseudobulbar features predominated meps were often absent . the mep was of normal latency in parkinson 's disease , but age-related amplitude was often increased . mep latency and amplitude were normal in huntington 's disease . abnormal meps persisted several months after stroke despite good functional recovery . the mep could be used to advantage to demonstrate proximal conduction slowing and block in demyelinating neuropathies . in plexopathy , ability to elicit an mep several days after onset of paresis was good evidence of neuronal continuity in motor fibers . 
fibrillation potential amplitude and muscle atrophy following peripheral nerve injury . maximum peak-to-peak fibrillation potential amplitude was measured in 69 subjects between 7 days and 10 1/2 years post complete or partial peripheral nerve injury . mean amplitude during the first 2 months was 612 muv ; third and fourth months 512 muv , fifth and sixth months 320 muv . after the first year , no population of fibrillation potentials greater than 100 muv was recorded . the sciatic nerve was sectioned in 13 guinea pigs and animals studied up to 17 weeks . fibrillation potential amplitude in gastrocnemius muscles declined paralleling that in humans . by the end of the study , type i fibers had lost almost half of their initial diameter and type ii fibers had atrophied more than twice this amount . fibrillation potential amplitude may be useful in estimating the time post nerve injury and appears to correlate with the surface area and fiber diameter of a type i muscle fiber . 
critical review of gangliosides and thyrotropin-releasing hormone in peripheral neuromuscular diseases . the lack of effective therapy for many of the chronic neuromuscular diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis , hereditary motor sensory neuropathy ( charcot-marie-tooth disease ) , spinocerebellar degenerations and idiopathic polyneuropathy has led to a search for substances that may stimulate peripheral nerve regeneration . two such agents that have been proposed are gangliosides ( mixed purified bovine brain gangliosides , cronassial ) and thyrotropin releasing factor ( trh ) . studies on both of these agents were initially reported with enthusiasm to be successful , but later double-blind controlled studies have failed to confirm these findings . this review provides critical analysis of the designs of studies of potentially effective agents in chronic neuromuscular diseases , and emphasizes the power of the placebo response , and the importance of designing placebos which are indistinguishable from the trial medication other than in the active effect . 
the effect of low-dose warfarin on the risk of stroke in patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation . the boston area anticoagulation trial for atrial fibrillation investigators background . nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation increases the risk of stroke , presumably from atrial thromboemboli . there is uncertainty about the efficacy and risks of long-term warfarin therapy to prevent stroke . methods . we conducted an unblinded , randomized , controlled trial of long-term , low-dose warfarin therapy ( target prothrombin-time ratio , 1.2 to 1.5 ) in patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation . the control group was not given warfarin but could choose to take aspirin . results . a total of 420 patients entered the trial ( 212 in the warfarin group and 208 in the control group ) and were followed for an average of 2.2 years . prothrombin times in the warfarin group were in the target range 83 percent of the time . only 10 percent of the patients assigned to receive warfarin discontinued the drug permanently . there were 2 strokes in the warfarin group ( incidence , 0.41 percent per year ) as compared with 13 strokes in the control group ( incidence , 2.98 percent per year ) , for a reduction of 86 percent in the risk of stroke ( warfarin : control incidence ratio = 0.14 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 0.04 to 0.49 ; p = 0.0022 ) . there were 37 deaths altogether . the death rate was markedly lower in the warfarin group than in the control group : 2.25 percent as compared with 5.97 percent per year , for an incidence ratio of 0.38 ( 95 percent confidence interval , 0.17 to 0.82 ; p = 0.005 ) . there was one fatal hemorrhage in each group . the frequency of bleeding events that led to hospitalization or transfusion was essentially the same in both groups . the warfarin group had a higher rate of minor hemorrhage than the control group ( 38 vs. 21 patients ) . conclusions . long-term low-dose warfarin therapy is highly effective in preventing stroke in patients with non-rheumatic atrial fibrillation , and can be quite safe with careful monitoring . 
seizures and other neurologic sequelae of bacterial meningitis in children . background . although the mortality rate among children with bacterial meningitis has decreased dramatically in recent decades , some patients are left with neurologic sequelae . it has not been clearly established which features of the acute illness predict the chronic neurologic sequelae , including late seizures or epilepsy . methods . we followed 185 infants and children prospectively during and after acute bacterial meningitis . the mean duration of follow-up was 8.9 years ( range , 0.1 to 15.5 ) . during the first six years standard neurologic examinations were performed ; telephone interviews were conducted thereafter . results . one month after meningitis , 69 children ( 37 percent ) had neurologic abnormalities . many of these signs resolved within a year , leaving only 26 children ( 14 percent ) with persistent deficits : 18 ( 10 percent ) had only sensorineural hearing loss , and 8 ( 4 percent ) had multiple neurologic deficits . thirteen children ( 7 percent ) had one or more late seizures not associated with fever . the presence of persistent neurologic deficits indicative of cerebral injury was the only independent predictor of late afebrile seizures ( p less than 0.001 ) . conclusions . after bacterial meningitis only children with permanent neurologic deficits are at high risk for epilepsy . those with normal examinations after the acute illness have an excellent change of escaping serious neurologic sequelae , including epilepsy . 
the sequelae of haemophilus influenzae meningitis in school-age children . background . previous data on the consequences of haemophilus influenzae type b meningitis for school-age children have been inconsistent , and much of the information on risk factors has been inconclusive . the present study was designed to evaluate the sequelae of this disease with a protocol for the comprehensive assessment of neuropsychological function . methods . ninety-seven school-age children ( mean age , 9.6 years ) , each of whom had a school-age sibling , were recruited from a survey of the medical records of 519 children treated for h. influenzae type b meningitis between 1972 and 1984 ( at a mean age of 17 months ) at the children 's hospitals of toronto , ottawa , and montreal . of the 97 children , 41 had had an acute neurologic complication . sequelae were assessed by comparing the index children with their nearest siblings on the basis of standardized measures of cognitive , academic , and behavioral status . results . only 14 children ( 14 percent ) had persisting neurologic sequelae : sensorineural hearing loss in 11 ( unilateral in 6 and bilateral in 5 ) , seizure disorder in 2 , and hemiplegia and mental retardation in 1 . although the total sample of index children scored slightly below the siblings in reading ability , the 56 children without acute-phase neurologic complications ( 58 percent ) were indistinguishable from their siblings on all measures . the differences between the groups were small even for the 41 pairs in which the index child had had an acute neurologic complication ( mean full-scale iq , 102 for the index children vs. 109 for the siblings ) . sequelae were also associated with lower socioeconomic status and a lower ratio of glucose in cerebrospinal fluid to that in blood at the time of the meningitis . behavioral problems were more prominent in index boys than index girls and in those who were older at the time of testing , but sex and age were not related to cognitive or academic sequelae . conclusions . we find a favorable prognosis for the majority of children who are treated for meningitis caused by h. influenzae type b. 
structure , expression and function of a schwannoma-derived growth factor . during the development of the nervous system , cells require growth factors that regulate their division and survival . to identify new growth factors , serum-free growth-conditioned media from many clonal cell lines were screened for the presence of mitogens for central nervous system glial cells . a cell line secreting a potent glial mitogen was established from a tumour ( or ' schwannoma ' ) derived from the sheath of the sciatic nerve . the cells of the tumour , named js1 cells , were adapted to clonal culture and identified as schwann cells . schwann cells secrete an autocrine mitogen and human schwannoma extracts have mitogenic activity on glial cells . until now , neither mitogen has been purified . here we report the purification and characterization of a mitogenic molecule , designated schwannoma-derived growth factor ( sdgf ) , from the growth-conditioned medium of the js1 schwann cell line . sdgf belongs to the epidermal growth factor family , and is an autocrine growth factor as well as a mitogen for astrocytes , schwann cells and fibroblasts . 
posterior interosseous nerve palsies . one hundred seventy patients with radial nerve disorders were reviewed at the louisiana state university medical center over a 15-year period . of these , 32 had involvement of the posterior interosseous nerve exclusively . findings included weak wrist extension with a radial drift , inability to extend the fingers , paralysis of thumb extension , and weak thumb abduction . causes included entrapment at the arcade of froshe ( 14 patients ) , laceration ( 6 patients ) , fracture ( 6 patients ) , compression or contusion ( 3 patients ) , and loss associated with tumor ( 3 patients ) . the ratio of men to women was 2:1 , and the right arm was involved twice as often as the left . preoperative evaluation included physical examination , electrophysiological testing ( electromyogram/nerve conduction velocity ) , and roentgenograms of the elbow and forearm . of the 30 patients ( 2 patients had bilateral lesions ) , 26 underwent operation . in the operative series , all 28 nerves had a function of grade 3 or more of a possible 5 after 4 years of follow-up . seventeen had achieved grade 4/5 , and 7 had obtained grade 5/5 . at operation , 23 nerves were found to be in continuity . fourteen lesions of nerves in continuity were associated with entrapment and , not unexpectedly , transmitted a nerve action potential with slowed conduction and low amplitude across the lesion . four nerves in continuity that had lesions caused by injury had nerve action potentials and were treated by neurolysis , and another 4 had no nerve action potentials and were treated by graft or suture repair . five injured nerves were not in continuity . two could be repaired by end-to-end suture , and 3 required graft repair . a large ganglion cyst involving the posterior interosseous nerve was also resected . 
functional results of facial nerve suture after removal of acoustic neurinoma : analysis of 25 cases . the facial nerve is sometimes severed during the removal of acoustic neurinomas , either intentionally to ensure complete removal , or unintentionally because of difficulties in identification . in such cases we have , if possible , sutured the nerve stumps microsurgically , either end to end or by use of an intervening nerve graft . we analyzed the outcome of 25 instances of facial nerve suturing in a series of 219 patients operated on for acoustic neurinoma from 1979 to 1987 . the first signs of recovery appeared at an average of 12 months , and there was continued improvement for several years . recovery was graded from 1 to 6 . the anastomosis was successful in 24 of the 25 sutured nerves , in that at least some facial movement and tone were restored ( grade 5 or higher ) . in 11 of the 25 cases , facial appearance at rest and with movement was moderately good ( grade 2 or 3 ) . a grade 1 result , with no perceivable facial dysfunction , was never achieved . typically , oral muscles showed the most improvement and frontal muscles the least . facial appearance was better at rest than with movement , which was always complicated by some degree of synkinesis . closure of the eye was so good in 13 of the 25 cases that neither tarsorrhaphy nor an eyelid spring was necessary . when the facial nerve is severed , intraoperative suture is recommended , because it provides a chance for moderately good restoration of facial appearance . 
extracranial repair of cerebrospinal fluid fistulas : technique and results in 37 patients . although neurosurgeons have traditionally preferred intracranial repair for the management of cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) fistulas , this approach is associated with the complications of a craniotomy , anosmia , and a high incidence of recurrent fistulas . extracranial repair , on the other hand , produces no central nervous system morbidity , preserves olfaction , and is associated with a low incidence of recurrence . although there have been several reports of extracranial repair of csf fistulas by otorhinolaryngologists , this approach has received scant mention in the neurosurgical literature . we report here our experience with 37 patients with csf rhinorrhea or otorrhea who underwent extracranial repair . the etiology of the fistula was postoperative in 22 , traumatic in 6 , and spontaneous in 9 . the fistulas were repaired using one of four techniques : external ethmoid-sphenoid in 18 patients , transmastoid in 9 , transseptosphenoid in 7 , and osteoplastic frontal sinusotomy in 3 . in 32 of the 37 patients ( 86 % ) the fistulas were successfully repaired with the initial procedure . of the 5 patients requiring a second operation , the fistula was successfully closed in 4 for an overall success rate of 97 % . complications were few and consisted of a transient facial paresis in a patient undergoing transmastoid repair and one death from meningitis . the authors conclude that because of low morbidity and mortality and a high success rate in closing fistulas , extracranial repair is the preferred technique for the operative management of csf rhinorrhea and otorrhea . 
whither short-course chemotherapy for tuberculous meningitis ? short-course chemotherapy is well established for the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis but not for extrapulmonary disease . we present a series of 35 cases in which chemotherapy for tuberculous meningitis was given for a period of less than 2 years . short-term therapy was associated with recrudescence of tuberculous meningitis and , in some cases , with the development of deep cerebral infarcts and permanent neurological deficits . we think short-term chemotherapy for tuberculosis of the central nervous system is inadequate . 
mild head injury classification . inconsistencies across studies concerning outcome after mild head injury may reflect differences in the diagnostic criteria used for selection of patients . consequently , we compared the neurobehavioral outcome in three groups of consecutively hospitalized patients ( aged 16 to 50 years ) who sustained a closed head injury ( chi ) and had a glasgow coma scale ( gcs ) score in the 9 to 15 range . these groups included patients with uncomplicated chi with mild impairment of consciousness as reflected by a gcs score in the 13 to 15 range ( n = 78 ) , patients with initially mild impairment of consciousness complicated by brain lesion or depressed skull fracture ( n = 77 ) , and patients with moderate chi ( n = 60 ) . tests of memory , information processing , and verbal fluency were administered within 1 to 3 months after injury , and the glasgow outcome scale was completed at 6 months . neurobehavioral functioning was impaired in the groups with complicated mild chi and moderate chi as compared to the group with uncomplicated mild chi . although moderate chi produced longer durations of impaired consciousness and posttraumatic amnesia than complicated mild head injury , patients in these groups did not differ in neurobehavioral performance . global outcome at 6 months was better in the patients with mild chi than in patients with complicated mild and moderate injuries . analysis of the various complications of mild chi revealed that the presence of an intracranial lesion was related to more severe neurobehavioral sequelae than injuries complicated by a depressed fracture . 
diffuse axonal injury : analysis of 100 patients with radiological signs . one hundred patients with head injuries who showed diffuse axonal injury on computed tomographic scans are reported . evaluation of the glasgow coma score , pupillary signs , and computed tomographic findings on admission led to an improved ability to forecast outcomes . our relatively good results as compared with other series , can be explained by the high proportion of children and by the liberal use of computed tomography to evaluate head injuries , thus revealing that concussion may sometimes be regarded as an early form of diffuse axonal injury . 
chronic lyme disease with an expansive granulomatous lesion in the cerebellopontine angle . expansive granulomatous lesions in the posterior cranial fossa are rare and have not been reported in conjunction with lyme disease . we report a patient with verified borrelia burgdorferi infection who developed a tumor in the cerebellopontine angle . rapid growth of the tumor led to signs of cerebral compression and to hydrocephalus . surgical intervention was required despite florid meningitis . the histological examination showed inflammatory , nonspecific granulation tissue . the origin of this tissue is almost certainly causally related to the b. burgdorferi infection . signs of inflammation resolved rapidly after subtotal resection . the clinical , radiological , and biochemical course is documented . this is the first report of an expansive cerebral lesion in the chronic phase of lyme disease . 
symptomatic pineal cyst : case report . pineal cysts are being described with increasing frequency since the advent of magnetic resonance imaging . although pineal cysts are incidental findings in as many as 4 % of magnetic resonance imaging studies , symptomatic pineal cysts are quite rare . we present a case of pineal cyst causing aqueductal obstruction with symptomatic hydrocephalus and resultant headache and syncope , which was treated by surgical resection . a review of the relevant literature and discussion follow . 
clinical study of intracranial nongerminomatous germ cell tumors producing alpha-fetoprotein . we present six patients with intracranial nongerminomatous germ cell tumors that produced alpha-fetoprotein ( afp ) . their ages ranged from 8 to 20 years ( average , 11.5 years old ) ; two were male and four were female . four of the tumors originated in the pineal region and two in the suprachiasmatic region . one patient treated with only radiation therapy died within 3 months of admission as a result of intraperitoneal metastasis via a ventriculoperitoneal shunt . another patient , treated with radiation therapy and intrathecal administration of neocarzinostatin , died after 12 months because of tumor progression and subarachnoid dissemination . two patients who received radiation and combination therapy with cisplatin , vinblastine , and bleomycin died after 13 and 25 months . the remaining two patients treated with radiation therapy and adjuvant chemotherapy ( cisplatin and etoposide ) are now alive without recurrence after 16 and 19 months from admission . adjuvant chemotherapy with cisplatin and etoposide appears to be efficacious in the treatment of intracranial nongerminomatous germ cell tumor . 
vagal schwannoma associated with syncopal attacks and postural hypotension : a case report . a case of vagal schwannoma in the cerebellomedullary angle is reported . preoperatively , the patient had paroxysmal episodes of postural hypotension with syncope . after total removal of the vagal tumor , her systemic blood pressure returned to normal . 
occult vascular malformations of the optic chiasm : magnetic resonance imaging diagnosis and surgical laser resection . angiographically occult vascular malformations of the optic nerve and chiasm are extremely rare . before the advent of magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) , it was difficult to diagnose these lesions preoperatively . we report mri scan findings of optic chiasm cavernous angiomas in two patients with chiasmal syndrome . mri was useful in localizing the vascular malformation and delineating its characteristics , especially chronic hemorrhage . one patient underwent biopsy of the lesion . the other patient underwent complete microsurgical resection of the malformation with the carbon dioxide laser with preservation of vision . occult vascular malformations of the optic nerve and chiasm may be a more common cause of visual deterioration than previously recognized . the mri scan is the imaging modality of choice for diagnosing and following these lesions . in certain patients , these vascular malformations may be amenable to complete surgical removal with stabilization or improvement of visual function . 
cyst of the choroid plexus in the lateral ventricle : case report and review of the literature . we report an intraventricular cyst in a 2-year-old boy who had myoclonic jerks of the extremities . the cyst had no communication with the ventricular system or subarachnoid space . total removal of the cyst adhering to the choroid plexus was accomplished . the glial cyst wall was lined in part by flattened or cuboidal epithelium . the preoperative and postoperative computed tomographic scans and magnetic resonance images are presented , and congenital benign cysts in the lateral ventricle are reviewed and discussed . 
traumatic aneurysm of the superior cerebellar artery : case report and review of the literature . less than 10 % of the 250 reported cases of traumatic intracranial aneurysms have involved the posterior circulation . traumatic aneurysms of the superior cerebellar artery are extremely rare , with only three cases previously reported . this is the first report of a traumatic superior cerebellar artery aneurysm in which the diagnosis was suggested by computed tomographic scan . the potential for a good outcome suggests the value of early angiography when the history and diagnostic imaging studies suggest the possibility of a traumatic aneurysm . 
intradural herniation of a thoracic disc presenting as flaccid paraplegia : case report . a case of intradural herniation of a thoracic disc in a patient with a flaccid paraplegia is described . intradural herniation of a thoracic disc is considered a rare event . a review of the relevant patient literature revealed 14 other reports involving 28 patients . no other report has described a patient with an intradural thoracic disc herniation who developed a flaccid paraplegia . 
an unusual complication of silastic dural substitute : case report . a case is presented in which a patient developed an unusual complication after the use of silastic dural substitute . in 1983 , the patient underwent removal of a meningioma with the involved dura . five years later , he developed around the graft material a very thick connective tissue capsule , which simulated a recurrent meningioma clinically and radiologically . 
epidermoid tumors of the 4th ventricle : report of seven cases . epidermoid tumors occur very rarely in the 4th ventricle . we discuss the history , clinical course , and the surgical results for seven patients . one patient had a remittal of symptoms , probably due to the emergence of the tumor from the 4th ventricle into the cisterna magna . total removal of the capsule was possible only in the youngest patient . at present , four patients ( mean follow-up , 6 years ) enjoy good general and neurological health . 
limited selective posterior rhizotomy for the treatment of spasticity secondary to infantile cerebral palsy : a preliminary report . a limited selective posterior rhizotomy was performed on 30 children suffering from spasticity secondary to infantile cerebral palsy . as opposed to standard techniques that stimulate and divide the dorsal rootlets from l2 to s1 , we dissected l4 , l5 , and s1 dorsal roots through an l5 to s1 laminectomy . eight to 12 rootlets from each root were electrically stimulated with two unipolar electrodes ( pulse width , 50 microseconds ; 10-50 v ) . the muscle responses were observed visually and registered by electromyography . those rootlets associated with an abnormal motor response as evidenced by sustained muscular contraction or by prolonged electromyographic response were divided . spasticity was scored from 0 to + . the muscular groups assessed were those involved in the flexion of the shoulder , elbow and wrist in the upper limbs , and those involved in flexion and adduction of the hip , flexion of the leg , and plantar flexion in the lower limbs . the patients were assessed 1 week before and 6 months after the operation . reduction of spasticity was observed in all the muscular groups , and all the patients presented functional improvement of motor abilities . these preliminary results indicate that a limited procedure that reduces the extension of the laminectomy and the length of the operation could be effective for treating spasticity secondary to infantile cerebral palsy . 
xenon-enhanced computed tomographic measurement of cerebral blood flow in patients with chronic subdural hematomas . we compared clinical symptoms with extent of brain shift on computed tomographic ( ct ) scans and quantitative and three-dimensional measurements of cerebral blood flow ( cbf ) on xenon-enhanced ct scans in 10 patients with chronic subdural hematomas . five patients had only headache and minimal or no brain shift on a ct scan . the other five had hemiparesis and/or mental disturbance in addition to headache and moderate or severe brain shift on a ct scan . the mean hemispheric cbf decreased about 7 % in patients with headache and about 35 % in patients with hemiparesis and/or mental disturbance . it decreased also on the side without the hematoma . the cbf reduction was always more pronounced in the putamen and thalamus than in the cortex . on the contrary , the cortex cbf was mostly preserved or even elevated in both groups of patients . we speculate that cbf reduction in patients with a chronic subdural hematoma occurs initially in central cerebral areas like the basal ganglia and thalamus , and then extends to the entire hemisphere including the cortex as brain compression and displacement progress . central cerebral area involvement might be more responsible for clinical symptoms than the cortex . 
hypertension as a risk factor for epilepsy after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and surgery . a prospective , consecutive series of 307 patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage ranging from grades 1 to v according to the classification of hunt and hess on admission were evaluated to determine the incidence of epilepsy 1 to 3 years ( mean , 1.4 years ) after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) and surgery . sixty-three patients had died and one patient was lost to follow-up . twenty-nine patients developed epileptic seizures after the sah and surgery . the mean time from the sah to epileptic seizure varied from 0 days ( day of the sah ) to 2 years ( mean , 6.7 months ) . the seizures were classified as focal in 9 patients ( 31 % ) and as generalized in 20 patients ( 69 % ) . all patients received anticonvulsant medication after more than one seizure . the risk factors for development of posthemorrhagic/postoperative epilepsy were , in order of importance : a history of hypertension ; an infarct on late computed tomographic scan ; and the duration of coma after the ictus . of the 85 patients with histories of hypertension , 17 ( 20.0 % ) developed epilepsy . only 12 ( 5.4 % ) of the 222 nonhypertensive patients developed epileptic seizures . the difference between the groups was significant ( p = 0.0001 ) . computed tomographic scans were undertaken in 237 patients 1 to 3 years ( mean , 1.4 years ) after the sah and surgery . postoperative epilepsy was significantly associated with infarcts visualized on computed tomographic scan ( p = 0.0005 ) . 
changes in intracochlear and intracanalicular nerves after acoustic neurinoma excision confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging . postoperative magnetic resonance imaging findings related to the vestibulocochlear and facial nerves within the internal auditory canal were analyzed in acoustic neurinomas . t1 - and proton-weighted magnetic resonance images showed that the vestibulocochlear nerves distal to the internal auditory meatus increased in signal intensity after surgical intervention . these nerves were conspicuously enhanced after intravenous administration of gadolinium diethylene-triamine-pentaacetic acid . the preserved facial nerves were also markedly enhanced postoperatively . as a possible cause of these findings , we suggest operative disruption of the blood-nerve barrier with ensuing nerve edema , although the operative procedures were carefully carried out using a surgical microscope . the clinical significance of traumatic disruption of the blood-nerve barrier and subsequent nerve edema are discussed from the standpoint of preservation of cochlear nerve function . 
fractures of the clivus : classification and clinical features . fractures of the clival complex were diagnosed in a series of 17 patients admitted to the maryland institute for emergency medical services system and the university of maryland medical system over a 30-month period . these fractures were divided pathologically into three types based upon their appearance on computed tomography : longitudinal , transverse , and oblique . the mechanisms of injury were similar in all groups , and the glasgow coma scale scores at admission were comparable , regardless of fracture type , in survivors and nonsurvivors . longitudinal fractures were associated with severe injury to the central nervous system and with brain stem infarction , and 4 of 6 ( 67 % ) of these patients died . transverse fractures of the clival complex were found in 6 patients , 3 of whom ( 50 % ) died . all of these patients had fractures of the petrous ridge ; 2 of the 3 survivors had multiple cranial nerve deficits , and one patient developed a carotid-cavernous fistula . of the 5 patients with oblique clival fractures , 2 survived ( 40 % ) , both of whom had multiple cranial nerve palsies ; in addition , one of these patients developed a carotid-cavernous fistula . using the present generation of computed tomographic scanners , fractures of the clival complex can be reliably diagnosed ; they are probably more common than previously believed and can be separated into three groups based on the characteristics on computed tomographic scans and clinical findings . 
clinicopathological experience with pineocytomas : report of five surgically treated cases . the clinicopathological experience associated with five cases of pineocytoma is presented . all patients were treated by surgical removal without postoperative radiotherapy . in three individuals , 2000 cgy was administered to the tumor as a presurgical diagnostic test , with no evidence of response . all cases demonstrated histological features of pineocytoma , according to the criteria of borit et al. , and of the so-called " pineocytoma with neuronal differentiation , " according to the criteria of rubinstein . the experience obtained from the present series reveals that these tumors can occur in the initial decades of life , that a cystic appearance and the presence of calcifications are distinctive features of their radiological evaluation , and that they have a good prognosis after surgical removal , even when the histological data indicate local invasion . the convenience of reserving the term " pineocytoma " for these tumors , and of including the so-called " pineocytomas without further differentiation " within the group of pineoblastomas , is suggested in order to achieve a practical clinicopathological assessment of parenchymatous pineal tumors . 
concurrent intradural and extradural meningiomas of the cervical spine . a case of an extradural spinal meningioma presenting with a separate intradural meningioma at the same cord level is reported . review of the english literature on spinal epidural meningiomas reveals a high incidence of concurrent intradural tumors in patients with epidural meningiomas . this leads to the conclusion that the intradural space should be evaluated carefully when an epidural meningioma is encountered . 
intradural spinal cord tumor presenting as a subarachnoid hemorrhage : magnetic resonance imaging diagnosis . negative findings on four-vessel angiography after a subarachnoid hemorrhage are seen in 5 to 30 % of patients . a previously silent lesion in the spinal canal may be responsible for the ictus in a small percentage of this group . the etiological factors include tumors and arteriovenous malformations ; however , investigations of such lesions have been limited to patients with signs and symptoms of spinal cord or nerve root pathological processes . this report describes the management of a 56-year-old woman with clinical findings typical of an aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and negative findings on cerebral angiography , in whom magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium enhancement revealed an intradural extramedullary cervical schwannoma . for this reason , cervicothoracic magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium enhancement should be considered as an adjunctive scanning examination in all patients with a subarachnoid hemorrhage and negative findings on angiography . 
myelopathy presenting decades after surgery for congenital cervical cutaneous lesions . we report on two patients in whom cervical myelopathy developed decades after they had undergone surgery for congenital cervical cutaneous lesions . preoperative magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated dorsal tethering and cavitation of the cervical cord in the area of the previous surgery and was helpful in decision making regarding surgical exploration and in planning for it . we stress the importance of long-term follow-up by both clinical examination and magnetic resonance imaging in children who have been operated on for cervical cutaneous masses that may have central connections . 
paraplegia after a routine lumbar laminectomy : report of a rare complication and successful management . arachnoid cysts of the spinal canal are relatively common lesions that may be either intra - or extradural . these cysts are usually asymptomatic but may produce symptoms by compressing the spinal cord or nerve roots . we report a case in which an intradural thoracic arachnoid cyst became symptomatic after a routine decompressive lumbar laminectomy for spinal stenosis . myelography revealed no abnormality , although magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography after myelography demonstrated a mass within the posterior aspect of the thoracic spinal canal associated with anterior displacement and compression of the spinal cord . a change in the flow dynamics of the cerebrospinal fluid probably allowed the development of spinal cord compression due to one of the following : expansion of the cyst , decreased cerebrospinal fluid buffer between the cord and the cyst , or epidural venous engorgement . a concomitant and more cephalad lesion such as an arachnoid cyst should be considered when myelopathic complications arise after lumbar surgery . magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography after myelography are useful to demonstrate the additional pathological processes . 
pituitary hemorrhage into a rathke 's cleft cyst this report describes a case of symptomatic pituitary hemorrhage into a rathke 's cleft cyst in a 25-year-old woman . the literature on pituitary hemorrhage in nonadenomatous sellar tumors is reviewed . 
mechanism of stroke in patients taking aspirin . during a 1-year period , we prospectively studied the mechanism and severity of stroke in 47 patients sustaining a cerebral infarction while taking aspirin . the mechanism of stroke was undetermined in 12 patients ( 26 % ) . in the remaining 35 patients , we identified 39 potential mechanisms : large-artery atherosclerosis ( 19 patients , 40 % ) , cardioembolism ( 15 patients , 32 % ) , and small-vessel occlusive disease ( 5 patients , 11 % ) . of 11 patients with carotid atherosclerosis and stroke , 9 ( 82 % ) had greater than 90 % carotid stenosis or occlusion ; of 12 patients with stroke of undetermined mechanism , 10 ( 83 % ) had previous stroke , of which 8 were also of undetermined mechanisms . disability after stroke was moderate or severe in 27 patients ( 57 % ) . these data suggest that ( 1 ) stroke in patients taking aspirin has a variety of etiologies and frequently causes moderate or severe disability ; ( 2 ) patients with carotid disease failing aspirin often have high-grade carotid stenosis or occlusion ; ( 3 ) stroke of undetermined mechanism may recur more frequently than other stroke subtypes in patients taking aspirin . 
aspiration in bilateral stroke patients . seventy patients with bilateral strokes underwent neurologic and videofluoroscopic barium swallowing examinations ; 34 ( 48.6 % ) aspirated . patients with aspiration were more likely to have posterior circulation strokes , abnormal cough , abnormal gag , and dysphonia . however , patients likely to aspirate can be identified best by the presence of an abnormal voluntary cough , an abnormal gag reflex , or both . the prediction of patients at risk for aspiration was not improved by additional clinical information ( ie , presence of dysphonia or bilateral neurologic signs ) . 
prolonged confusion following convulsions due to generalized nonconvulsive status epilepticus . among patients with a prolonged confusional state after convulsive seizure , we diagnosed 8 cases as generalized nonconvulsive status epilepticus . six had a history of seizures , and 2 had new onset . the convulsive seizures were generalized in 6 and focal in two . the postictal confusion lasted up to 36 hours in the most prolonged case , and a delayed response to anticonvulsant medications occurred in all cases . the clinical symptoms ranged from mild confusion to coma . psychiatric manifestations or automatisms were rare . the presumed etiology was due to diverse causes , but a withdrawal state was the most common . eeg demonstrated continuous or nearly continuous generalized ictal discharges of variable morphology . these cases call attention to the fact that some prolonged confusional states following convulsive seizures are in fact due to persistent seizure activity that can be diagnosed by eeg . 
verbal memory impairment correlates with hippocampal pyramidal cell density . thirty-five patients with medically refractory epilepsy localized to the temporal lobe ( 18 left , 17 right ) completed the verbal selective reminding test before surgery . verbal memory impairments existed before surgery regardless of the lateralization of the seizure focus , but patients with left temporal seizure foci were significantly more impaired . after surgical removal of the mesial temporal lobe structures , 2 blinded observers established volumetric cell densities for hippocampal subfields ca1 , ca2 , ca3 , the hilar area , and the granule cell layer of the area dentata . statistically significant correlations existed between presurgical memory impairment and cell counts ( in ca3 and the hilar area , only ) for patients with left temporal seizure foci . these findings support the hippocampal model of memory and complement prior research documenting the memory impairments present after surgical removal of the mesial temporal structures . 
a case-control study of alzheimer 's disease in australia . we conducted a case-control study of clinically diagnosed alzheimer 's disease ( ad ) on 170 cases aged 52 to 96 years , and 170 controls matched for age , sex and , where possible , the general practice of origin . trained lay interviewers naive to the hypotheses and to the clinical status of the elderly person carried out risk-factor interviews with informants . significant odds ratios were found for 4 variables : a history of either dementia , probable ad , or down 's syndrome in a 1st-degree relative , and underactivity as a behavioral trait in both the recent and more distant past . previously reported or suggested associations not confirmed by this study include head injury , starvation , thyroid disease , analgesic abuse , antacid use ( aluminum exposure ) , alcohol abuse , smoking , and being left-handed . 
the opposite pupil in herniation . i serially examined the pupil opposite the one already enlarged from transtentorial herniation in 13 patients . the main abnormalities , stereotyped in most patients , were an initially diminished light reaction with a 2.5 - to 4-mm-diameter pupil , followed by slight reduction in size , and then reenlargement to greater than original size , all with preserved roundness . subsequent deterioration varied among patients , but a transitional oval shape was infrequent and oculomotor function was preserved until both pupils were enlarged and fixed . once the pupil on the side of a mass enlarges , heralding herniation , subsequent deterioration can be appreciated through changes in reactivity and size of the opposite pupil . 
spatiotemporal contrast sensitivity differs in normal aging and parkinson 's disease . we measured contrast sensitivity for static and laterally drifting vertical gratings in 12 young adults , 7 normal elderly adults , and 8 patients with parkinson 's disease ( pd ) . we compared static and motion contrast sensitivity for spatial frequencies of 0.25 , 1 , and 4 cycles per degree ( cpd ) , and temporal frequencies of 1 , 3 , and 9 hz . results show that normal aging leads to a reduction of motion sensitivity for the spatial frequency of 0.25 cpd . compared with elderly controls , pd patients do not present specific abnormalities in this domain . however , for spatial frequencies of 1 and 4 cpd and temporal frequencies of 1 and 3 hz , motion sensitivity is worse than static sensitivity in pd patients and not in elderly controls . these findings suggest a specific deficit of motion perception in pd , and possible dopaminergic involvement in the control of visuospatial behavior . 
cytokine accumulations in csf of multiple sclerosis patients : frequent detection of interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor but not interleukin-6 . we identified the cytokines interleukin-1 beta ( il-1 beta ) , tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) , and interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) by specific radioimmunoassays in the csf of patients with multiple sclerosis ( ms ) and other neurologic diseases ( ond ) . there was a high incidence of detectable il-1 beta in patients with active ms compared with inactive ms or ond patients . tnf was also more frequently present in active ms than in ond csf . by contrast , most ms csf did not contain detectable il-6 . there was no correlation between the degree of csf pleocytosis and the level of individual cytokines , suggesting that cytokine accumulations may be derived from cns , and not csf , cells . as il-1 beta and tnf experimentally induce astrogliosis , demyelination , temperature elevation , lassitude , and sleep , and results raise the possibility that these cytokines may contribute to a variety of manifestations in ms and in other disease states . 
catecholaminergic systems in the medulla oblongata in parkinsonian syndromes : a quantitative immunohistochemical study in parkinson 's disease , progressive supranuclear palsy , and striatonigral degeneration . we investigated tyrosine-hydroxylase ( th ) - immunoreactive neurons in the medulla oblongata corresponding to the a1 and a2 cell groups in autopsy tissue of patients with parkinson 's disease ( pd ) ( n = 3 ) , progressive supranuclear palsy ( psp ) ( n = 3 ) , striatonigral degeneration ( snd ) ( n = 2 ) , and in controls ( n = 4 ) . the estimated total number of th-positive neurons in the a1 and the a2 regions was normal in pd and psp patients . the sparing of medullary catecholaminergic cells in pd and psp may be related to their minor degree of melanization and the possibility that intermediate compounds associated with the oxidative catabolism of norepinephrine and epinephrine may be less cytotoxic than those generated by degradation of dopamine . patients with snd showed a marked loss of th-immunoreactive cells in the a1 and the a2 groups , which may contribute to the impairment of vasomotor control characteristic of the disease . 
anti-gm1 igm antibodies in motor neuron disease and neuropathy . we found anti-gm1 igm antibodies in 23 % of 56 patients with motor neuron disease ( mnd ) , in 19 % of 69 patients with neuropathy , and in 7 % of 107 controls with other neurologic and nonneurologic diseases . most of these patients had anti-gm1 igm antibody titers of 1:80 or less ; slightly higher antibody titers ( up to 1:640 ) were found in 3 patients , 1 with mnd and 2 with neuropathy , and very high titers ( 1:20,480 ) in a patient with mnd and an igm kappa m protein that reacted with gm1 , gd1b , and asialo gm1 . six other patients with anti-gm1 igm that also bound to gd1b . reactivity with gd1b did not correlate with anti-gm1 titers but was only present in patients with mnd or neuropathy . anti-gm1 igm antibodies may be a normal constituent of the human antibody repertoire but their frequency and , in some cases , their levels are higher in patients with mnd and neuropathy . the origin and the pathogenetic role of these antibodies in neural impairment remain to be established . 
kearns-sayre syndrome presenting as renal tubular acidosis . renal tubular acidosis and tetany were the 1st manifestations of kearns-sayre syndrome in a 5-year-old child . subsequently , he developed progressive external ophthalmoplegia , ptosis , retinopathy , heart block , and endocrinopathy . there was a 7.5-kb deletion of mitochondrial dna documented in muscle , kidney , skin fibroblasts , and leukocytes , providing evidence for a multisystem mitochondrial cytopathy . 
antibodies to synthetic peptide ( 125-148 ) of the alpha-subunit of human nicotinic acetylcholine receptor in sera from patients with myasthenia gravis . we measured the amount of antibodies to a synthetic peptide that corresponds to the alpha-subunit residues lys125-thr148 of human acetylcholine receptor ( achr ) in myasthenic sera . we detected anti-peptide antibodies in 52 % ( 89/171 ) of the patients with myasthenia gravis ( mg ) , but none in any of the healthy controls . anti-peptide antibodies should provide a valuable immunologic parameter for the clinical evaluation of mg , but no apparent correlation was observed between the titers of anti-peptide and anti-achr antibodies . 
streptococcus bovis meningitis : report of 2 cases . we describe 2 cases of streptococcus bovis meningitis and review the 9 cases previously reported . this microorganism is a rare cause of meningitis in which there are no distinctive clinical or laboratory features . the gram stain of the csf is usually negative . ten of the 11 cases had some underlying disease or comorbid condition that predisposed to s bovis infection : gastrointestinal disorder , endocarditis , csf leak , polymyalgia rheumatica , and mandibular block . treatment with high-dose penicillin is usually adequate . 
a comparison of regulatory cells in spinal fluid and blood in patients with multiple sclerosis and other neurologic diseases . multiple sclerosis is a disease in which immune abnormalities are present both in the cns and peripheral blood . whether these changes are primary or secondary to the disease process is not known . we tested t-cell clones derived from activated lymphocytes in the blood and csf of ms patients and controls for their capacity to regulate t-cell responses to alloantigens . a wide spectrum of regulatory functions were observed , ranging from marked enhancement to almost complete suppression . clones from different patient populations and anatomic sites were equivalent in their regulatory functions with the net effect of clones in each compartment being suppression . however , certain clones from csf and peripheral blood had the capacity to stimulate autologous t cells . percentages of such clones in the peripheral blood of ms patients were significantly higher than in controls , while percentages in ms and other neurologic diseases ( ond ) csf were equivalent . our data suggest that ( 1 ) functional suppressor cells are not lost from the blood or csf or ms and ond patients , ( 2 ) lymphocytes that have entered the cns in patients with ms and other cns diseases have equivalent regulatory functions , ( 3 ) ms may be an illness in which peripheral immunologic events are important in perpetuating the disease process , and ( 4 ) responses to autologous antigens may also play a role in this perpetuation . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome ( l-tryptophan-associated neuromyopathy ) . histopathologic study of skeletal muscle biopsy in a patient with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome following l-tryptophan use showed prominent lymphocytic perineuritis , neuritis , and perimysial fasciitis . the presence of perineuritis and neuritis provides a histopathologic basis for clinical features of neuropathy in eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and occurred in conjunction with a fasciitis or interstitial myositis that was predominantly perimysial and focally endomysial . 
visual disturbance in patients with melanocytoma of the optic disk . visual disturbance in 11 patients with melanocytoma of the optic disk was analyzed . goldmann visual field examination showed enlargement of mariotte 's blind spot in 7 of 10 patients ( 70 % ) and visual field defect or depression in 7 patients ( 70 % ) . in 6 of the 7 patients with visual field defect of depression ( 86 % ) , the portion of visual field damage corresponded with the location of the tumor and retinal nerve fiber bundle defect . in 1 patient , sudden loss of visual acuity occurred , presumably due to anterior ischemic optic neuropathy induced by melanocytoma . 
signs distinguishing spasmus nutans ( with and without central nervous system lesions ) from infantile nystagmus . clinical findings as well as eye and head movement recordings were analyzed from 23 patients with spasmus nutans without central nervous system ( cns ) changes , 10 patients with spasmus nutans-like disease ( head nodding , intermittent nystagmus associated with intracranial anomalies or visual pathway disorders ) , and 25 patients with infantile nystagmus . ten diagnostic signs were established to differentiate between the patient groups . although they were helpful in separating patients with infantile nystagmus from those with spasmus nutans , no difference was found between the patients with spasmus nutans with and without cns lesions . this study indicates that eye and head movement recordings do not allow differentiation between benign spasmus nutans and spasmus nutans-like disease . the differentiation must be made on the basis of neuroimaging . 
late juvenile-onset krabbe 's disease . krabbe 's disease is an autosomal recessive leukodystrophy characterized by a lack of galactocerebroside beta-galactosidase activity . in contrast to the classic early infantile-onset form of krabbe 's disease , less recognized , late-onset variants exist . the authors present a case of late juvenile-onset krabbe 's disease , including the associated magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) findings . most patients with late-onset krabbe 's disease present with visual loss due to optic atrophy . associated gait abnormalities and parental consanguinity should increase the clinician 's suspicion that a child may have late-onset krabbe 's disease . because of the prolonged survival in late-onset krabbe 's disease , the recent development of bone marrow transplantation for these patient makes diagnosis of this disorder particularly important . 
pharmacological versus non-pharmacological prophylaxis of recurrent migraine headache : a meta-analytic review of clinical trials . in order to generate information about the relative effectiveness of the most widely used pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions for the prophylaxis of recurrent migraine ( i.e. , propranolol hcl and combined relaxation/thermal biofeedback training ) , meta-analysis was used to integrate results from 25 clinical trials evaluating the effectiveness of propranolol and 35 clinical trials evaluating the effectiveness of relaxation/biofeedback training ( 2445 patients , collectively ) . meta-analysis revealed substantial , but very similar improvements have been obtained with propranolol and with relaxation/biofeedback training . when daily recordings have been used to assess treatment outcome , both propranolol and relaxation/biofeedback have yielded a 43 % reduction in migraine headache activity in the average patient . when improvements have been assessed using other outcome measures ( e.g. , physician/therapist ratings ) , improvements observed with each treatment have been about 20 % greater . in both cases , improvements observed with propranolol and relaxation/biofeedback have been significantly larger than improvement observed with placebo medication ( 14 % reduction ) or in untreated patients ( no reduction ) . meta-analysis thus revealed substantial empirical support for the effectiveness of both propranolol and relaxation/biofeedback training , but revealed no support for the contention that the two treatments differ in effectiveness . these results suggest that greater attention should be paid to determining the relative costs and benefits of widely used pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatments . 
antinociception and cardiovascular responses produced by electrical stimulation in the nucleus tractus solitarius , nucleus reticularis ventralis , and the caudal medulla . in experiment 1 , quantitative regional comparisons of the antinociceptive and cardiovascular responses produced by electrical stimulation in the caudal medulla , including regions such as the nucleus tractus solitarius ( nts ) , nucleus reticularis ventralis ( nrv ) , nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis ( nrgc ) , nucleus reticularis paragigantocellularis ( nrpgc ) , nucleus raphe obscurus ( nro ) , and medial portions of the lateral reticular nucleus ( lrn ) , were made in the rat . electrical stimulation in all of these regions resulted in inhibition of the nociceptive tail-flick reflex , although the threshold intensity for inhibition was greater for sites in nts compared to many sites ventral to the nts . antinociception was generally accompanied by an increase in mean arterial blood pressure , with the exception of sites in the nro , where depressor responses were evoked by stimulation . detailed comparisons between the nts and nrv revealed that greater intensities of electrical stimulation were required to produce antinociception for sites in the nts as compared to the nrv . there were no significant differences in threshold intensities for antinociception as a function of rostrocaudal subdivisions of the nts , but the lateral subdivision of the nts was significantly more efficacious than the medial subdivision . this mediolateral difference within nts was primarily due to stimulation in medial sites producing overt movements in some animals , probably due to stimulation of adjacent midline nuclei or pathways . within the nrv , thresholds for inhibition of the tail-flick reflex were greater for sites in the dorsal subdivision as compared to the ventral subdivision , which contains spinopetal projections from the nrm . the slopes of the lines of recruitment for inhibition of the tail-flick reflex at stimulation sites in either the nts or nrv were both very steep , similar to other forms of antinociception . in experiment 2 , the pulse duration of electrical stimulation was varied for sites of stimulation in the lateral nts and nrv to generate strength-duration curves . this experiment confirmed that stimulation sites in the lateral nts required greater current intensities to inhibit the tail-flick reflex than sites in the nrv . however , the chronaxies derived from the strength-duration functions for the nts or nrv were both approximately 170 microseconds , indicating that the antinociceptive effects in these regions may not be exclusively due to the stimulation of fibers of passage . these results are discussed in terms of the role of the nts , nrv , and caudal medulla in the modulation of nociceptive responses and cardiovascular function . 
clinical judgments in pain management . from research reports published over the last 20 years , it appears that moderate to severe uncontrolled pain may be the norm for hospitalized patients despite recent advances in the management of pain . research on the extent of under-management of pain and the factors associated with it is examined and summarized in this paper . methodological imperfections of the research are identified . several explanations for pain under-management have been proposed and these are reported . a clinical decision making model is also reviewed and it is suggested that this model could be applied to pain management problems . further , it is suggested that this model may be very useful in developing educational interventions to improve health practitioners ' clinical skills in pain management . 
pain relief achieved by transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation and/or vibratory stimulation in a case of painful legs and moving toes . a patient is described with painful legs and moving toes . the pain had been occurring for more than 15 years , and a variety of therapies had been attempted with only partial , if any , success . only morphine had succeeded in relieving the pain , but it had to be discontinued to avoid tolerance and dependence . we devised a treatment consisting of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation ( tens ) , vibratory stimulation ( vs ) , and a combination of the two methods ( tens + vs ) . tens brought about partial pain relief , but was less effective than vs ; dual stimulation ( tens + vs ) led to complete alleviation of the pain . four months later , the patient was applying dual stimulation himself at home and was thus able to maintain complete relief with 3 or 4 weekly sessions . we suggest that dual stimulation results in a large-scale recruitment of large-diameter afferent fibres and may thus set up a powerful inhibitory control of nociception in our patient . 
heritability of symptoms in an experimental model of neuropathic pain . male and female rats underwent transection and ligation of the sciatic and saphenous nerves , and the development of autonomy was monitored . the deafferented animals were then interbred , always selecting males and females that expressed relatively high and , alternatively , relatively low levels of autotomy . offspring were similarly operated and interbred . by the sixth generation of selective breeding , lines were achieved in which autotomy was consistently high ( ha ) or consistently low ( la ) . there was no indication of sex linkage . thermal and mechanical nocifensive responsiveness co-selected with propensity to express autotomy following nerve injury : response thresholds were lower in ha than in la rats . f1 hybrids formed by crossing homozygous ha and la animals showed low levels of autotomy , similar to la stock . this indicates recessive inheritance of the autotomy trait . backcrossing f1 hybrids onto the la line yielded a low autotomy phenotype in almost all cases ; backcrossing f1 hybrids onto ha stock yielded about 50 % high autotomy and 50 % low autotomy . these ratios are consistent with simple mendelian inheritance of a single gene . taken together , the data suggest that autotomy is inherited as a single-gene autosomal recessive trait . 
adrenal medullary implants in the rat spinal cord reduce nociception in a chronic pain model . previous work in this laboratory has indicated that the transplantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the subarachnoid space of the rat spinal cord can reduce pain sensitivity to acute noxious stimuli , particularly following stimulation by nicotine . this most likely results from the stimulated release of opioid peptides and catecholamines from the transplanted chromaffin cells . however , chronic pain models may more closely resemble human clinical pain , and the arthritic rat model has been used for screening potential therapeutic strategies . the purpose of the present study was to assess the potential for adrenal medullary tissue implanted into the spinal subarachnoid space to alleviate chronic pain . adrenal medullary tissue was implanted into adjuvant-induced arthritic rats , and changes in body weight and vocalization responses were monitored over the 10 week course of the disease . results indicate that the severe weight reduction normally associated with this inflammatory arthritis was attenuated by adrenal medullary , but not control , implants . in addition , vocalizations were reduced in animals implanted with adrenal medullary , but not control tissue following nicotine stimulation . this reduction was blocked by the opiate antagonist , naloxone , and partially attenuated by the alpha-adrenergic antagonist , phentolamine . together , these results suggest that the transplantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the subarachnoid space of the spinal cord may provide a local source of opioid peptides and catecholamines for the reduction of chronic pain . 
interactions between substance p , calcitonin gene-related peptide , taurine and excitatory amino acids in the spinal cord . using in vivo microdialysis in the dorsal spinal cord of the rat , we have previously observed increases in glutamate and aspartate during exposure to a noxious stimulus . the present investigation was designed to determine whether these increases may be mediated by substance p. infusion of 1 mm of substance p in the dialysis fluid increased the concentrations of glutamate and aspartate , similar to the response seen during noxious stimulation . in addition , substance p also increased the concentrations of the inhibitory amino acids glycine and taurine . calcitonin gene-related peptide , previously shown to enhance substance p-induced biting and scratching behavior , produced no effect on amino acid release by itself but potentiated the apparent release of taurine by substance p. to assess the importance of substance p-induced amino acid release in sensory processing , we examined the influence of taurine and of excitatory amino acid antagonists on the biting and scratching behavior produced by excitatory amino acids and substance p. taurine selectively inhibited only substance p-induced biting and scratching while excitatory amino acid antagonists inhibited only excitatory amino acid-induced behavior . to further explore the ability of taurine to inhibit the substance p-induced behavior , 3 tests of nociception were then used . pretreatment with taurine inhibited the nociceptive-related writhing behavior produced by an intraperitoneal injection of acetic acid in mice but failed to alter the latency of response in the hot plate or tail flick assay . 
thrombocytosis after pneumonia with empyema and other bacterial infections in children . thrombocytosis is seen in association with many conditions , including infectious diseases . we studied thrombocytosis after severe bacterial infections , particularly pneumonia with empyema in children . a systematic survey of the phenomenon was conducted . twenty-seven children admitted for pneumonia with empyema were studied . thrombocytosis ( platelet counts greater than 500 x 10 ( 3 ) / microliters ) was present in 92.5 % . platelet counts reached their maximum at 15.1 + / - 3.7 days ( range , 7 to 25 ) and declined to normal after 3 weeks of illness . compared with a healthy control group , significant thrombocytosis , but of lower incidence , was also noted in children with lobar pneumonia without pleural effusion , bacterial meningitis and osteomyelitis . platelet functions were examined in seven of the children but no abnormalities were observed . bone marrow aspiration of three children with pneumonia and empyema showed megakaryocytic hyperplasia . we found no correlation between thrombocytosis , neutrophilia , fever , the clinical course , complications , prognosis or treatment . neither thromboembolic nor hemorrhagic phenomena were observed . 
central nervous system tuberculosis in children : a review of 30 cases . the medical records of 30 children with central nervous system tuberculosis ( cns tuberculosis ) who were treated between march , 1976 , and february , 1989 , were reviewed . all had cranial computerized tomography scans at presentation . the mean cerebrospinal fluid leukocyte count was 200/mm3 , protein 239 mg/dl , glucose 25 mg/dl and csf/serum glucose ratio 21 % . mantoux skin tests with 5 tuberculin units were greater than or equal to 10 mm induration in 50 % , and chest radiographs were positive in 40 % of patients . hydrocephalus was demonstrated by cranial computerized tomography in all 30 patients ( 100 % ) . cranial computerized tomography scan demonstrating hydrocephalus is a sensitive radiographic nervous system tuberculosis and should be part of the early evaluation of children with suspected central nervous system tuberculosis . 
acute pain relief . pain is a multidimensional psychophysiologic phenomenon . systematic multidimensional assessment is an essential first component of an effective plan to relieve the pain . nurses are key to effective pain management because of the close , 24-hour-a-day relationship with the hospitalized patient . it is the nurse who is most critical to the adequate assessment of pain , to the implementation of the treatment plan , and to the evaluation of efficacy . nurses should continue to develop a better knowledge base about pain and pain therapies and assessment skills , be assertive in obtaining effective treatment for their patients , and perceive themselves as responsible for pain relief . 
chronic pain . understanding of the etiology of chronic pain is growing rapidly as researchers seek to integrate physiologic and psychosocial mechanisms . when nurses assess clients with chronic pain , they should make their assessments using both verbal and nonverbal methods and realize that no one instrument is comprehensive enough to be used alone . the key to successful treatment of these difficult clients lies in the use of a comprehensive approach that takes the client seriously and integrates both physiologic and psychosocial approaches . 
pain in children . the assessment and management of children 's pain is a topic that has received a great deal of attention since the late 1970s . nurse researchers have played a dominant role in all areas of pediatric pain relief and likely will continue to do so . there are currently a number of pediatric pain assessment instruments developed that are used in selected practice settings , but their use should be extended to document the existence of pediatric pain and its relief . pharmacologic interventions for pediatric pain relief have been hampered by incorrect beliefs about analgesic risks , prescribing and administrating habits , and a virtual explosion of information in the area of analgesics . although nurses have traditionally used nonpharmacologic interventions for pain relief , these methods have not been well researched . continued research efforts in this important area will result in improved diagnosis and management of pediatric pain . 
confusion . the term confusion describes a plethora of possible cognitive deficits and behavioral manifestations . a subjective assessment of confusion must be followed by an objective systematic evaluation to develop the cognitive-behavior profile . because of age-associated physiologic and pathologic changes , elderly patients are at high risk for developing acute confusion . the management of confusion presents a challenge to nursing . nursing can play a significant role in the prevention and the early detection of acute confusion . preventing or identifying confusion early will decrease the physical and psychological stress of the patient as well as decrease the cost of hospitalization by shortening length of stay . additional research is needed to determine the efficacy of present nursing activities and to identify new approaches for management . 
when epilepsy masquerades as heart disease . awareness is key to avoiding misdiagnosis . autonomic neural impulses that accompany discharges during a seizure can cause a variety of cardiac manifestations , including cardiac arrhythmias , sudden death , anginal chest pain , neurogenic pulmonary edema , and symptoms of pheochromocytoma . either generalized or focal seizures may generate such signs and symptoms . a better appreciation of cardiac problems caused by epilepsy is helpful in preventing misdiagnosis , because the clinical picture in such a patient may be confusing . 
steroids induce acetylcholine receptors on cultured human muscle : implications for myasthenia gravis . antibodies to the acetylcholine receptor ( achr ) , which are diagnostic of the human autoimmune disease myasthenia gravis , block achr function and increase the rate of achr degradation leading to impaired neuromuscular transmission . steroids are frequently used to alleviate symptoms of muscle fatigue and weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis because of their well-documented immunosuppressive effects . we show here that the steroid dexamethasone significantly increases total surface achrs on cultured human muscle exposed to myasthenia gravis sera . our results suggest that the clinical improvement observed in myasthenic patients treated with steroids is due not only to an effect on the immune system but also to a direct effect on muscle . we propose that the identification and development of pharmacologic agents that augment receptors and other proteins that are reduced by human genetic or autoimmune disease will have broad therapeutic applications . 
controlling stability of a complex movement system . human movement systems have frequently been treated as one-dimensional , single-axis , rigid bodies in order to simplify the gathering , analysis , and interpretation of data . the problem with this approach is that the results of such assumptions often lead to conclusions about the production and control of movement that do not relate to the control demands placed on the central nervous system . in order to truly understand how the central nervous system plans and produces movements to match environmental demands , we must take into account the many variations available within the body . the purpose of this article is to examine two movement systems that have the potential to act in multiple spatial dimensions with variable muscle action patterns when performing a stabilizing task . methods of analyzing how the systems operate under differing task constraints and results of the experiments will be presented . hypothetical models that have been proposed to explain how complex movement systems operate will also be discussed . 
interferon system and natural killer cell activity in myasthenia gravis . the autoimmune response in myasthenia gravis is well characterized , but little is known about the mechanisms initiating it . we have studied the interferon system and natural killer cell activity in 25 patients with myasthenia gravis and compared them to 68 healthy subjects and 96 patients with acute viral infections . forty-four per cent of patients had circulating interferon ( greater than 16 mu/ml ) , and in a similar proportion their peripheral blood mononuclear cells were in an antiviral state , i.e. , showed low levels of viral replication when infected by vesicular stomatitis virus . spontaneous in vitro interferon production by patients ' peripheral blood mononuclear cells was also common ( greater than 10 mu/ml , 32 per cent ) , while the response to the alpha-interferon inducer poly i : c was lower than expected , possibly reflecting the already high state of activation of the interferon system . these results were essentially similar to those obtained in patients with viral illnesses and differed significantly from healthy controls . in many myasthenia gravis patients ( 16 of 22 , 73 per cent ) , a markedly deficient natural killer cell activity was found , with a median cytotoxicity of 6.5 per cent compared to 29 per cent in healthy subjects ( p less than 0.005 ) . thus , many patients with myasthenia gravis have evidence of an activated interferon system and defective natural killer cell activity , suggesting an occult viral infection or reflecting nonspecific stimulation which may nevertheless contribute to the pathogenesis of the autoimmune response . 
haemostatic changes in the loin pain and haematuria syndrome : secondary to renal vasospasm ? twenty-five patients ( seven male , 18 female ) were diagnosed as having the loin pain and haematuria syndrome . presenting symptoms were either loin pain alone or pain associated with macroscopic or microscopic haematuria , and were longstanding , having been present for mean of 9.3 years in males , and 10 years in females . ten patients described symptoms of passing gravel or renal stones but these were only demonstrated radiologically in two patients . investigation of all patients showed anatomically normal renal tracts , normal renal function , and no significant proteinuria . phase-contrast microscopy during episodes of haematuria revealed dysmorphic red cells in all 10 patients studied . renal biopsies were performed in 20 patients and showed no glomerular pathology , but arteriolar and arterial hyalinosis was seen in 13 of 20 ( 65 per cent ) , fibro-elastosis in larger vessels in eight of 20 ( 40 per cent ) and red blood cells in tubules in 13 of 20 ( 65 per cent ) patients . the histological appearance in vessels was similar to that seen in cyclosporin a nephrotoxicity and would be consistent with the hypothesis that regional vasospasm occurs in the cortical circulation . haematological studies in 22 patients , when compared with age and sex matched controls , showed the presence of circulating platelet aggregates , elevation of plasma beta-thromboglobulin ( p less than 0.001 ) , and increased platelet aggregation in response to serotonin and adp ( p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.03 , respectively ) . plasma concentrations of d dimer ( p less than 0.02 ) and c-reactive protein ( p less than 0.03 ) were also significantly elevated in the patient group . there was no deterioration of renal function during a mean observation period of 3.7 years and no patients developed proteinuria . treatment was largely supportive ; seven patients with intractable loin pain underwent surgical denervation with the relief of pain in four . 
tropical neuromyelopathies and retroviruses : a review . debilitating disorders of the nervous system have a relatively high prevalence in the tropics , a geographic region that is often deficient in specialists in the fields of neurology and epidemiology . during world war ii , attention was called to a possible nutritional origin for most of these diseases . recently , however , human t lymphotropic virus type i ( htlv-i ) , formerly linked only to a rare form of leukemia ( adult t cell leukemia ) , has been associated with a spastic paraplegia observed mostly in tropical areas and referred to as tropical spastic paraparesis . this entity is also observed in nontropical areas endemic for htlv-i , including japan , south america , and the southern united states . viruses of the htlv family are being associated increasingly with pathology in humans . the pathogenesis of htlv-i-associated tropical spastic paraparesis remains to be understood . however , future research is expected to favor a multidisciplinary approach , with exciting potential insights derived from the fields of neurology , immunology , and infectious diseases . the aim of this review is to summarize contemporary research related to the viral etiology of this clinical entity . 
tamoxifen therapy for painful idiopathic gynecomastia . we have evaluated the efficacy of the antiestrogen tamoxifen in six men with painful idiopathic gynecomastia . subjects were given either tamoxifen or placebo for 2 to 4 months and then were given the other agent for an identical period . breast size was considered to have been reduced only if it had decreased by one or more marshall-tanner stages during the treatment period . pain reduction with tamoxifen therapy was statistically significant for the group , occurring in five of six subjects during tamoxifen treatment and in only one of six during the placebo period . size reduction with tamoxifen was only marginally significant for the entire group , but occurred in all three subjects who were initially in marshall-tanner stage iii and in none of the three subjects who were initially in stage v. during tamoxifen treatment , there was a significant increase in the serum levels of luteinizing hormone and total estradiol and a marginally significant increment in the total testosterone level . 
normeperidine-induced seizures in hereditary coproporphyria . seizures are common in acute exacerbations of hepatic porphyria , even though the etiology is not identified in most cases . we have reported a case of normeperidine-induced seizures in a patient with hereditary coproporphyria . although meperidine is commonly used for pain control during acute attacks in these patients , this report suggests that meperidine is not a good analgesic choice in porphyria . normeperidine-induced seizures in patients with porphyria may be treated by withdrawal of meperidine therapy and selective use of anticonvulsants . 
postural hypotension : pressor effect of octreotide not mediated by norepinephrine . orthostatic hypotension of the shy-drager syndrome is a chronic incapacitating condition characterized by lack of an appropriate increase in the plasma norepinephrine level in response to standing . recently , the somatostatin analogue octreotide has been reported to induce a pressor response in patients having this syndrome . we have reported a case of shy-drager syndrome in which octreotide was effective , but the rise in blood pressure was not accompanied by an increase in the plasma norepinephrine level . hence , the pressor effect of octreotide is not mediated by stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system , but probably through splanchnic vasoconstriction . 
synchronous hodgkin 's disease and myelofibrosis terminating with granulocytic sarcoma and acute megakaryocytic leukemia . our patient had stage iiiai hodgkin 's disease with synchronous myelofibrosis and myeloid metaplasia . a slowly progressive myeloproliferative disease developed over 9 1/2 years and terminated in a painful osteolytic bone disease , spinal extradural granulocytic sarcoma and acute megakaryocytic leukemia . it is likely that this was a result of the myeloproliferative disease rather than a late complication from combination chemotherapy . our case demonstrates the importance of a curative approach to hodgkin 's disease even in the face of a coexistent disease with a long or unknown natural history . 
persistent segmental cutaneous anesthesia after a brown recluse spider bite . patients with brown recluse spider bites commonly suffer from pain , muscular aching , and a variety of local dysesthesias during the acute and resolution phases of toxin-induced injury . this is our first well-documented observation of persistent cutaneous anesthesia caused by a spider bite . the anesthetic area conformed to the distribution of a specific nerve , the transverse cervical cutaneous nerve . the identification of the spider as a brown recluse and the location of the bite over the nerve 's usual pathway strongly suggest that the venom was responsible for this complication . 
neurologic abnormalities in a patient with human ehrlichiosis . human ehrlichiosis is a tick-borne rickettsial disease characterized by fever , headache , myalgias , anorexia , and occasionally rash . in our patient , changes in mental status , upper motor neuron signs , cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis , and increased serum protein levels were found in association with serologically confirmed ehrlichiosis and were most likely due to vasculitis involving the central nervous system . intraleukocytic inclusions , although observed in our case , have been infrequently found in other reported cases of ehrlichiosis . 
stroke in systemic lupus erythematosus [ published erratum appears in stroke 1991 mar ; 22 ( 3 ) :417 ] we investigated the clinical and pathologic characteristics of stroke in 234 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus . thirteen patients ( 5.6 % ) developed cerebrovascular disease . cerebral infarction was noted in eight , cerebral hemorrhage in two , and subarachnoid hemorrhage in three . in seven ( 54 % ) of these 13 patients , stroke occurred less than or equal to 5 years after systemic lupus erythematosus was diagnosed . among the predisposing risk factors for stroke , hypertension was the most important . lupus anticoagulant was detected in three ( 38 % ) and anticardiolipin antibody in three ( 43 % of seven investigated ) of the patients with infarction . evaluation of the clinical manifestations and autoantibodies indicated that renal involvement and high titers of anti-deoxyribonucleic acid antibody were more frequent in the stroke group than in the non-stroke group . autopsy studies on six of the patients with stroke revealed small infarcts and hemorrhages in all , but in no case was true angiitis observed . libman-sacks endocarditis was found in two of the three patients with infarction . in conclusion , the important contributory factor to the development of stroke in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus is considered to be hypertension mediated by immunologic abnormalities . antiphospholipid antibodies and libman-sacks endocarditis are closely associated with occlusive cerebrovascular disease . 
surgical experience with cerebral amyloid angiopathy . cerebral amyloid angiopathy can present as lobar intracerebral hemorrhage in an elderly person , presumably due to increased fragility of the vessels affected by amyloid deposition . for this reason , patients presenting with intracerebral hemorrhage and suspected of having cerebral amyloid angiopathy have often been treated nonsurgically . since 1983 we have evaluated 11 patients with cerebral amyloid angiopathy ( nine women and two men , mean age 73 years ) who have undergone either intracerebral hematoma evacuation or brain biopsy . nine of the 11 patients presented with intracerebral hemorrhage , which was unilobar in three patients and multilobar in six and involved the parietal lobes seven times , the frontal lobes four times , the temporal lobes four times , and the occipital lobes twice . these nine patients underwent hematoma removal , with no cases of abnormal intraoperative bleeding or recurrent hemorrhage . six patients improved neurologically , and two were unchanged after hematoma evacuation ; the remaining patient had a fatal cardiopulmonary arrest during the immediate postoperative period . during follow-up in seven patients ( median 11 months , range 1 week to 74 months ) none experienced a recurrent intracerebral hemorrhage and four continued to improve . two of the 11 patients had cerebral amyloid angiopathy diagnosed by brain biopsy as part of an evaluation for dementia , also without surgical complications . this series suggests that patients with cerebral amyloid angiopathy may safely undergo operative procedures , and patients presenting with intracerebral hemorrhage may show neurologic improvement following evacuation of the hematoma . 
remote effect of deep-seated vascular brain lesions on cerebral blood flow . we measured regional cerebral blood flow using the xenon-133 inhalation method , at approximately 1 month after onset , in 60 stroke patients who had no evidence of major carotid artery stenosis or occlusion . their single lesions ( 43 infarcts and 17 hematomas ) were located in the capsulothalamolenticular region , sparing the cortex . hemispheric mean cerebral blood flow was reduced on the side of the lesion in 25 patients and on both sides in 20 . regional hypoperfusion was observed in 46 patients ( ipsilaterally in 34 , bilaterally in 10 , and contralaterally in two ) . regional hypoperfusion was observed most frequently in the frontal lobe , particularly in the motor and premotor cortices of the prerolandic area . the 46 patients with regional hypoperfusion were compared with the 14 patients without regional hypoperfusion , considering the size and location of the lesion as well as the functional and analytic motor performances . as a rule , the lesion was slightly smaller and more posterior and the functional ( p less than 0.001 ) and analytic ( p less than 0.05 ) motor performances were significantly better in the 14 patients without regional hypoperfusion . since the xenon-133 inhalation method examines cortical blood flow , we can attribute blood flow reductions resulting from deep-seated lesions to a functional depression akin to diaschisis . interpretation of the clinical consequences and pathogenesis of this phenomenon requires further sequential and pathologic studies . 
correlation of clinical and computed tomographic findings in stroke patients . we evaluated the correlation between clinical features and computed tomographic findings in a prospective study of 1,191 consecutive patients with acute cerebrovascular disease seen during 1 year . in the 386 patients in whom symptoms and signs initially suggested a cerebrovascular disorder , computed tomography revealed a relevant lesion in 154 ( hemorrhagic in 52 [ 33.8 % ] , ischemic in 102 [ 66.2 % ] ) and a significant nonstroke abnormality in 14 ( 3.1 % ) . among the remaining 805 patients with symptoms and signs suggesting some central nervous system disorder other than stroke , computed tomography revealed a cerebrovascular lesion in 38 ( 4.7 % ) ; 35 of these lesions were ischemic . the computed tomographic findings was compatible with the final clinical diagnosis in 192 ( 84.2 % ) of the 228 patients with lesions . in the entire sample of 1,191 patients , a cerebrovascular disorder would have been missed in 38 ( 3.2 % ) without computed tomography . on the other hand , computed tomography failed to visualize a cerebrovascular lesion in 40 patients in whom such a lesion was clinically obvious . our results emphasize that both careful neurologic assessment and a policy of early computed tomography are of crucial importance in the diagnosis of stroke and for therapeutic considerations . 
effect of emitted power on waveform intensity in transcranial doppler this study assesses the problem of transcranial doppler recording failure and seeks to determine the extent to which this can be ameliorated by increased emitted power . we hypothesized that waveform intensity is directly related to the rate and quality of successful recording and may be compared quantitatively among groups of patients . among a large group of patients recorded at 800 mw/cm2 emitted power , intensity was strongest in white men , weakest in black women , and intermediate in black men and white women . it declined with age in women of either race , but not in men of either race . analysis of the effect of emitted power on intensity predicted that significant numbers of waveforms recorded at 800 mw/cm2 could not be recorded at the current clinical standards of 100 mw/cm2 , the difference being most pronounced in elderly black women . temporal bone window thickness measured in a series of adult cadaver skulls was least in white men , greatest in black women , and intermediate in black men and white women . the findings of this study support the hypothesis that temporal bone window thickness is an important determinant of recording difficulty and suggest that increased emitted power can significantly increase successful recording , particularly in black and elderly patients . increased power alone , however , can not completely solve the recording problem within safe limits . 
moderate hypothermia after cardiac arrest of 17 minutes in dogs . effect on cerebral and cardiac outcome . moderate hypothermia ( 30 degrees c ) induced before circulatory arrest is known to improve neurologic outcome . we explored , for the first time in a reproducible dog outcome model , moderate hypothermia induced during reperfusion after cardiac arrest ( resuscitation ) . in three groups of six dogs each ( n = 18 ) , normothermic ventricular fibrillation cardiac arrest ( no blood flow ) of 17 minutes was reversed by cardiopulmonary bypass -- normothermic in control group i ( 37.5 degrees c ) and hypothermic to 3 hours in groups ii ( 32 degrees c ) and iii ( 28 degrees c ) . defibrillation was achieved in less than or equal to 5 minutes and partial bypass was continued to 4 hours , controlled ventilation to 20 hours , and intensive care to 96 hours . all 18 dogs survived . electroencephalographic activity returned significantly earlier in groups ii and iii . mean + / - sd best neurologic deficit between 48 and 96 hours was 44 + / - 8 % in group i , 38 + / - 12 % in group ii , and 35 + / - 7 % in group iii ( differences not significant ) . best overall performance category 2 ( good outcome ) between 48 and 96 hours was achieved in none of the six dogs in group i and in four of the 12 dogs in the combined hypothermic groups ii and iii ( difference not significant ) . mean + / - sd brain total histologic damage score was 130 + / - 22 in group i , 93 + / - 28 in group ii ( p = 0.05 ) , and 80 + / - 26 in group iii ( p = 0.03 ) . gross myocardial damage was greater in groups ii and iii than in group i -- numerically higher overall and significantly higher in group iii for the right ventricle alone ( p = 0.02 ) . moderate hypothermia after prolonged cardiac arrest may or may not improve cerebral outcome slightly and can worsen myocardial damage . 
progressing cerebral infarction in relation to plasma glucose in gerbils . we studied neurologic morbidity and its evolution during hyperglycemia induced immediately after permanent unilateral common carotid artery ligation in mongolian gerbils . a total of 60 animals were divided into five groups : one experiencing severe hyperglycemia for 1 hour after the onset of ischemia ( brief hyperglycemia group , n = 13 ) , a normoglycemic control group for the brief hyperglycemia group ( n = 12 ) , a group with severe hyperglycemia for 4 hours after the onset of ischemia ( prolonged hyperglycemia group , n = 11 ) , a normoglycemic control group for the prolonged hyperglycemia group ( n = 13 ) , and a hyperosmolar normoglycemic control group for the prolonged hyperglycemia group ( n = 11 ) . neurologic morbidity and mortality were higher in the two hyperglycemic groups than in the three normoglycemic control groups . the neurologic deficit progressed according to the duration of severe hyperglycemia . in the three normoglycemic control groups neurologic status stabilized 120 minutes after the onset of ischemia , in the brief hyperglycemia group stabilization occurred at 210 minutes , and in the prolonged hyperglycemia group neurologic deficit progressed for approximately 360 minutes , coinciding with the death of all but one gerbil , in which the neurologic deficit remained stable until death 23 hours after ischemia . we suggest that hyperglycemia is another cause of progressing cerebral infarction . 
embolic stroke after smoking " crack " cocaine . a 39-year-old woman had an embolic upper division middle cerebral artery branch occlusion 3 hours after smoking the free base of cocaine ( " crack " ) . radionuclide ventriculography demonstrated cardiomyopathy , and echocardiography documented a left atrial thrombus . this case demonstrates that embolism is one mechanism of ischemic stroke after cocaine use , and that cardiomyopathy , possibly cocaine induced , may be the source of embolus . a cardiac source of embolus should be sought in patients with cocaine-associated cerebral infarction . 
progress report of the stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation study . the stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation study recently found and reported ( spaf investigators , n engl j med , 1990 ; 322:863 -868 ) a beneficial effect of both warfarin and aspirin compared with placebo in the primary prevention of ischemic stroke and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation . among warfarin-eligible patients , the event rates were 1.6 % / yr for those receiving active antithrombotic therapy ( warfarin or aspirin ) and 8.3 % / yr for those receiving placebo ( p less than 0.00005 ) ( risk reduction 81 % , 95 % confidence interval 56-91 ) . ironically , we did not find a beneficial effect of aspirin in warfarin-ineligible patients . on the basis of these results , the study has been reshaped to directly compare these two antithrombotic agents . insight into the apparent aspirin unresponsiveness noted in some patients also is being sought . interpretation of the preliminary results and the reshaping of the study have been made more complex by the continued blinding of the investigators to certain portions of the data . presented is an account of the study from its inception through its recent redesign . 
growth factor expression after stroke . fibroblast growth factors are polypeptides with potent trophic effects on central nervous system cells . both acidic and basic forms of fibroblast growth factor are found in the mammalian brain . we have examined the expression of these factors after focal brain injury or stroke . after infarction of the lateral cerebral cortex in the mature rat brain , we found a twofold to threefold increase during the first 3 weeks after stroke in levels of fibroblast growth factors in tissue surrounding infarcts . this increase persisted for at least 2 months and appeared mainly to be due to increased levels of basic , but not acidic , fibroblast growth factor . because of its gliotrophic , angiogenic , and neuronotrophic properties , basic fibroblast growth factor may play an important role in the cascade of cellular reactions that contributes to wound healing and functional recovery after stroke . 
genetics of cerebrovascular disease . stroke is a complex disease , with both genetic and environmental factors having a role in its pathogenesis . a review of past studies shows some evidence of genetic influences in the development of stroke . this is supported by studies of cardiovascular disease , which indicate major genetic influences at several levels including the development of risk factors . new approaches to phenotypic classifications , patient ascertainment , and genetic analysis will stimulate research into the role of genetics in cerebrovascular disease . 
molecular biology of atherothrombotic brain infarction . because reduced high density lipoproteins may contribute to atherothrombotic brain infarction , we performed molecular biologic and metabolic studies to characterize high density lipoprotein metabolism with respect to its role in reverse cholesterol transport , to clone the high density lipoprotein receptor , and to determine gene polymorphism for apolipoprotein a-i , the major protein of high density lipoprotein , because altered structure may impair reverse cholesterol transport . for high density lipoprotein metabolism measurements , high density lipoprotein 3 was isolated , purified , and labeled with iodine-125 . the radiolabeled high density lipoprotein 3 was reinjected , and daily blood samples were taken for 10 days . synthesis rates and fractional catabolic rates were determined from the specific activities and daily decrements . preliminary data indicate that stroke-prone individuals ' fractional catabolic rates for high density lipoprotein 3 are twice those of normal individuals . also , the conversion of high density lipoprotein 3 to high density lipoprotein 2 is reduced in these individuals , suggesting that high density lipoprotein may be abnormally processed in individuals prone to atherothrombic brain infarctions . we surveyed more than 100 patients with carotid stenosis using a 2.2-kb probe for the apolipoprotein a-i gene . a subset of these patients displays polymorphism with restriction enzymes saci or psti . these preliminary findings suggest that gene polymorphism for apolipoprotein a-i may provide a molecular clue of atherothrombic brain infarction . 
modification of stroke susceptibility by genotype-dependent maternal influences . the influence of the prenatal and postnatal maternal environment on stroke susceptibility was evaluated by reciprocally crossing the spontaneously hypertensive ( shr ) and the dahl salt-sensitive ( ss/jr ) inbred rat strains to produce reciprocal f1 hybrids that were nurtured , respectively , during prenatal and postnatal life by shr or ss/jr mothers . following placement on a high-salt diet containing 8 % nacl at 35 days of age , f1 rats reared by shr mothers had shorter survival times and were more likely to die with cerebral hemorrhage than f1s reared by ss/jrs . across reciprocal f1 female groups , enhanced susceptibility to stroke was associated with greater elevations of systolic blood pressure , but this association was not seen across reciprocal f1 male groups . there was also an association between blood pressure and stroke within each f1/gender subgroup : rats eventually suffering strokes developed higher blood pressure after placement on the high-salt diet than rats that did not suffer stroke . lower day 35 body weights ( before exposure to the high-salt diet ) were associated with greater likelihood of stroke both across the reciprocal f1 groups , and within three of the four f1/gender subgroups . the differences in stroke susceptibility between the reciprocal f1 groupings may be due to systematic differences in the prenatal and/or postnatal environments of shr and ss/jr mothers and may be mediated by variations in the nutritive capacity of the two inbred mothers . 
pharmacology of recovery after stroke . laboratory research during the past decade has begun to provide insights into the neurobiologic basis of functional recovery after brain injury . it is clear that drugs influencing specific neurotransmitters also can influence the recovery process . some of these drugs may be beneficial , but others may be detrimental . some of the difficulties in interpreting the results of these behavioral studies are reviewed , and potential mechanisms of drug effects are discussed . these types of studies are leading to an increased awareness of the potentially harmful effects of some drugs often given to stroke patients . pharmacotherapy designed to enhance functional recovery after stroke may be possible in the future . 
multilevel transneuronal degeneration after brain damage . behavioral events and effects of anticonvulsant gamma-aminobutyric acid-related drugs . recent morphologic and behavioral studies of the effects of gamma-aminobutyric acid agents on transsynaptic degeneration after cortical and striatal damage are reviewed and discussed . following unilateral lesions of the anteromedial cortex , mild atrophy appears in the ipsilateral striatum and substantia nigra pars reticulata . long-term diazepam administration greatly enhances this degeneration , extends the degeneration into the thalamus , and severely disrupts recovery from somatosensory asymmetries . following unilateral excitotoxic lesions of the striatum , progressive degeneration of neurons occurs in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and efferent targets in the thalamus . this degeneration can be prevented by chronic infusion of muscimol , a gamma-aminobutyric acid agonist . unexpectedly , this treatment did not facilitate recovery from somatosensory asymmetries . recovery in muscimol-treated animals was impaired relative to saline-treated controls . thus , gamma-aminobutyric acid agonists either may enhance or prevent neural atrophy secondary to brain damage , but the behavioral outcome appears to depend importantly on the excitatory and inhibitory characteristics of the affected networks . 
influence of amphetamine treatment on somatosensory function of the normal and infarcted rat brain . the consequences of acute amphetamine administration on the metabolic responsiveness of the cerebral cortex to physiologic activation were studied in normal and infarcted rats . treated rats received a 4 mg/kg intravenous injection of d-amphetamine 1 hour before unilateral vibrissae stimulation and 2-deoxyglucose study . in nontreated normal rats , metabolic activation was restricted to the major relay stations of the vibrissae-barrel circuit . in amphetamine-treated rats , stimulation-induced increased glucose utilization was widespread , including ipsilateral and contralateral cortical regions outside the barrel field circuit . for example , an 84 % increase in glucose utilization above control was seen in cortical areas anterior to the barrel field region . increased glucose utilization induced by stimulation was severely depressed in nontreated rats that had undergone infarction of the left cortical barrel field 2 weeks previously . vibrissae stimulation failed to increase glucose utilization significantly in cortical areas remote from the infarct . in contrast , bilateral increases in glucose utilization were observed within cortical regions of treated infarcted rats . for example , a 50 % increase in glucose utilization was detected in cortical areas bordering the infarct . thus , in the normal and infarcted rat , amphetamine appears to promote alternate circuit activation -- a pharmacologic property that may be advantageous for recovery after injury . 
effects of mk-801 on recovery from sensorimotor cortex lesions . histologic evidence suggests that drugs acting as noncompetitive antagonists at the n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor can have beneficial or pathologic effects on central nervous system neurons . in the present experiments we examined the effects of mk-801 on recovery of behavioral function after unilateral lesions in the rat somatic sensorimotor cortex . in the first experiment , rats with unilateral sensorimotor cortex lesions were given either mk-801 ( 1 mg/kg ) or saline 12-16 hours after surgery . additional injections were given on postoperative days 2 , 4 , and 6 . behavioral tests measured somatosensory asymmetries ( i.e. , bilateral tactile stimulation tests ) and forelimb placing . after creation of sensorimotor cortex lesions , rats showed an ipsilateral somatosensory bias and an impairment in placing the contralateral forelimb . rats treated with mk-801 recovered slightly faster than saline-treated animals as measured by a bilateral tactile stimulation test ( p less than 0.05 ) . in contrast , there was no significant difference between the groups in the recovery of forelimb placing . in a second experiment , rats with sensorimotor cortex lesions were treated with a single injection of mk-801 after behavioral recovery . twenty hours after the mk-801 injection , rats with sensorimotor cortex lesions showed a reinstatement of the placing deficits . the impairment endured for at least 7 days after injection . these behavioral data support the idea that mk-801 can have either beneficial or detrimental effects when administered after brain damage . 
ionic channels , cholinergic mechanisms , and recovery of sensorimotor function after neocortical infarcts in rats . unilateral photochemical infarcts were produced in the hind limb sensorimotor neocortex of 243 rats by intravenous injection of the fluorescein derivative rose bengal and focal illumination of the intact skull surface . facial contact stimuli governed the degree and recovery rate of contralateral tactile/proprioceptive forelimb placing reactions . contralateral forelimb placing recovered , whereas hind limb placing was resistant to recovery . infarcted rats displayed marked recovery of spontaneous limb usage ( beam traversing ) . however , deficits in isolated tactile/proprioceptive hind limb placing reactions endured . posttreatment with the class iv calcium antagonist flunarizine after neocortical infarction protected sensorimotor function in a dose-dependent manner . this protective effect may be due to the peculiar ionic channel blocking profile of flunarizine . scopolamine hydrobromide reinstated contralateral placing errors in infarcted rats at a dosage that did not affect neurologically intact rats . the cognitive enhancer sabeluzole , a novel benzothiazol derivative , dose-dependently blocked the anticholinergic-induced deterioration of a sensorimotor deficit in rats . 
magnetic resonance imaging demonstrates that electric stimulation of cerebellar fastigial nucleus reduces cerebral infarction in rats . we sought to determine whether high spatial resolution magnetic resonance imaging is useful for noninvasive quantitation of the ischemic infarct produced by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery and for detection of reduced infarct volume elicited by electric stimulation of the cerebellar fastigial nucleus . male rats of the spontaneously hypertensive strain were anesthetized , the middle cerebral artery was occluded , and the fastigial nucleus was stimulated for 1 hour . twenty-four hours later , rats were reanesthetized and t1 - and t2-weighted images were obtained . rats were killed and the volume and distribution of the lesion was established by histopathology . magnetic resonance imaging estimates of the lesion volume were 271 + / - 41.0 mm3 ( middle cerebral artery , n = 5 ) and 148 + / - 8.4 mm3 ( middle cerebral artery + fastigial nucleus stimulation , n = 6 ; 45 % reduction , p less than 0.05 ) . histopathological analysis revealed a lesion of 229.8 + / - 15.4 mm3 involving somatosensory cortex , lateral caudate putamen , and lateral hippocampus . fastigial nucleus stimulation resulted in a 36 % reduction in infarct volume to 146.0 + / - 10.3 mm3 . the retrieved zone was largely in the cortex dorsal and ventral to the lesion and mostly posterior to the lesion . the estimates of lesion volume by magnetic resonance imaging and histopathology did not differ and were highly correlated ( r = 0.90 ; p less than 0.001 ) . this study confirms our previous finding that fastigial nucleus stimulation reduces the volume of a focal ischemic infarct and demonstrates that magnetic resonance imaging not only accurately estimates the volume of the lesion but also can detect changes as small as 50-100 mm3 . 
symptomatic carotid endarterectomy trials . the possible benefit of carotid endarterectomy in stroke prevention is being evaluated in three major clinical trials . to date , the european carotid surgery trial has randomized 2,200 patients , 30 % of whom have a carotid stenosis of greater than 70 % appropriate to their symptoms . the north american symptomatic carotid endarterectomy trial has randomized 1,000 patients , of whom more than half have this severity of appropriate stenosis . quality control and the evaluation of outcome events in this trial is achieved by a three-tier review , including review by medical and surgical adjudicators who are blinded to the treatment arm of each patient . baseline characteristics of the patients eligible but not randomized are similar to those of patients who have been randomized . two percent of the patients randomized to the surgical arm have declined surgery and crossed over to the medical arm , and 3 % have elected surgery after randomization to the medical arm . both of these studies , as well as a veterans administration trial , are continuing to randomize patients . 
the pathophysiology of anoxic injury in central nervous system white matter . white matter of the mammalian brain is susceptible to anoxic injury , but little is known about the pathophysiology of this process . we studied the mechanisms of anoxic injury in white matter using the isolated rat optic nerve , a typical central nervous system white-matter tract . optic nerve function , measured as the area under the compound action potential , rapidly failed when exposed to anoxia . postanoxic recovery was variable , depending on duration of the anoxic insult ; after a standard 60-minute period of anoxia , the compound action potential recovered to 28.5 % of control . irreversible anoxic injury was critically dependent on extracellular ca2 + ; maintaining the tissue in zero [ ca2 + ] solution throughout the anoxic period resulted in 100 % compound action potential recovery . increasing perfusate [ ca2 + ] during anoxia from zero to 4 mm resulted in progressively less recovery . anoxic damage to the optic nerve appears to depend on the gradual accumulation ( over tens of minutes ) of ca2 + in a cytoplasmic compartment . the inorganic ca2 + channel blockers mn2 + ( 1 mm ) , co2 + ( 1 mm ) , or la3 + ( 0.1 mm ) had no effect on recovery of the compound action potential after anoxia ; only mg2 + ( 10 mm ) significantly improved recovery . treatment with the dihydropyridine ca2 + channel blockers nifedipine ( 1-10 microm ) or nimodipine ( 1-40 microm ) also had no effect on recovery from anoxia . thus , ca2 + influx during anoxia does not occur via conventional ca2 + channels . preliminary evidence suggests that this ca2 + influx may occur via other cation channels that are imperfectly selective for ca2 + or via the na ( + ) - ca2 + exchanger . 
putative neuroexcitation in cerebral ischemia and brain injury . involvement of neuroexcitatory mechanisms in cerebral ischemia and brain injury was explored in experimental models of repetitive forebrain ischemia by temporary occlusion of carotid arteries in gerbils and cryogenic injury to the cerebral cortex in rats and gerbils . our observations in these models revealed a pattern of injury that involved some anatomic structures outside the areas of direct ischemic or traumatic insult . such foci of injury revealed conspicuously abnormal uptake of 45ca associated with slight or moderate neuronal alteration , whereas severely injured areas showed no 45ca uptake . electron microscopic observations revealed a characteristic presence of calcium in swollen dendrites , closely resembling pictures obtained in neuroexcitatory conditions such as epileptic seizures . abnormal uptake of 45ca was associated with apparent blood-brain barrier changes characterized by intracytoplasmic uptake of extravasated albumin into the neurons . protein synthesis assayed by in vivo [ 3h ] leucine incorporation was reduced in regions showing calcium accumulation . our observations suggest that neuroexcitation may play an important role in development of secondary and chronic changes after ischemic or traumatic brain insults . 
platelet-activating factor . a putative mediator in central nervous system injury ? platelet-activating factor ( 1-o-hexadecyl-2-acetyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphorylcholine ) is a potent lipid autacoid produced by many cell types . platelet-activating factor is produced by cerebellar granule cells in culture and has been extracted from brain tissue . multiple platelet-activating factor receptors have been demonstrated in brain tissue . activation of platelet-activating factor receptors in transformed neuronal cell lines involved increases in intracellular calcium . platelet-activating factor has potent actions on cerebral vessels and cerebral metabolism when administered in vivo , but may not have direct effects on brain microvessels . excessive platelet-activating factor production in pathological states of the nervous system such as neurotrauma and stroke has been shown in only a few models ( e.g. , spinal cord ischemia and reperfusion or focal repercussion brain injury ) . in multiple studies using highly specific and potent platelet-activating factor antagonists , reversal or prevention of key consequences of brain injury such as hypoperfusion following ischemia , reperfusion and edema , inflammatory cell accumulation , neurologic/motor deficits , and neuronal salvage were demonstrated . this review provides and analyzes evidence in support of the role that platelet-activating factor might have in modulation of brain function and pathophysiological processes in brain ischemia and trauma . 
bacteremia in an ambulatory setting . improved outcome in children treated with antibiotics . we undertook a study of 414 bacteremic patients ( 167 with haemophilus influenzae and 247 with streptococcus pneumoniae bacteremia ) to evaluate their clinical presentation , laboratory and clinical results , and subsequent outcomes . patients with h influenzae bacteremia were more likely to have soft-tissue foci , poorer clinical appearance at presentation , and be at higher risk for subsequent serious focal infections , persistent bacteremia , and subsequent hospital admissions than patients with s pneumoniae . patients with h influenzae bacteremia had a 21.1-fold increase in risk of meningitis ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] of 3.8 to 78.0 ) compared with those with s pneumoniae . the odds ratio for initial lumbar puncture was 5.25 ( 95 % ci [ 1.1-23 .6 ] ) . ambulatory patients treated with antibiotics at presentation were less likely to develop new serious soft-tissue infections , persistent bacteremia , or to require subsequent hospital admissions than untreated patients . the effect of treatment was greater for patients with s pneumoniae than those with h influenzae . careful follow-up and reevaluation of patients with presumptive bacteremia is essential because treated and untreated patients can still develop serious soft-tissue infections . 
physical features of prader-willi syndrome in neonates . a retrospective study of 16 patients was undertaken to identify physical features that may typify neonates with prader-willi syndrome . several features known to be typical of prader-willi syndrome in early infancy were confirmed , including hypotonia and genital hypoplasia . a number of features that have not previously been emphasized as characterizing prader-willi syndrome were also identified , most notably abnormal cry and , in males , signs of genital hypoplasia but with an apparently normal phallus . other features included disproportionately large head circumference , disproportionately large anterior fontanelle , mild micrognathia , mild anomalies of the gingivae or alveolar ridges , and changes in the appearance of the skin . appreciation of these features may assist the pediatrician in recognizing the child with prader-willi syndrome during the neonatal period , before the appearance of better-known findings of later onset , such as obesity and acromicria . 
replication patterns of the fragile x in heterozygous carriers : analysis by a brdurd antibody method . the replication status of the fragile x chromosomes was studied in short-term cultures of lymphocytes from six female heterozygous carriers . the fragile x was induced by adding 0.1 microm fluorodeoxyuridine during the last 24 h of culturing . the replication status of the x chromosomes was studied using a bromodeoxyuridine ( brdurd ) antibody method . brdurd was added ( 1 ) at a final concentration of 0.2 micrograms/ml during the early s phase of chromosome replication ( 16-10 h before harvest ) , ( 2 ) at 0.2 microgram/ml during the late s phase ( the last 6 h of culturing ) , ( 3 ) at 20 micrograms/ml during the early s phase , and ( 4 ) at 20 micrograms/ml during the late s phase . brdurd that was incorporated into replicating chromosomes was detected by using a nuclease and brdurd monoclonal antibody . the frequency of the fragile x was reduced by brdurd treatment . the degree of reduction was more severe in the 20 micrograms/ml than in the 0.2 microgram/ml series and was more severe with late s than with early s treatment . of the early - and late-replicating fragile x chromosomes , those which were actively replicating during a brdurd treatment were more reduced than the others . thus , the average rate of early and late s treatment with 0.2 microgram brdurd/ml was assumed to be the closest reflection of the situation in vivo . there was no correlation between the average rate of the early replicating , active fragile x and the intelligence of the heterozygous carriers studied . 
serum aldolase isozyme levels in patients with cerebrovascular diseases . a subunit specific radioimmunoassay was developed for the quantification of human aldolase a , b , and c. the method used was a double antibody radioimmunoassay using radioiodinated purified aldolase a , b , or c subunits as the ligand , specific chicken antibodies to aldolase isozymes and rabbit antibodies to chicken igg . the iodogen method was used for iodination of the purified isozyme subunits in this study . human brain tissue contained similar concentrations of aldolase a and aldolase c , and a smaller amount of aldolase b , which was the main isozyme of liver tissue . levels of serum aldolase a were greater than 203 ng/ml , the upper limit of normal , in six of 24 patients with cerebral infarction and in 11 of 31 patients with cerebral hemorrhage . nine of 24 patients with cerebral infarction and 16 of 31 patients with cerebral hemorrhage had serum aldolase c levels greater than 4.1 ng/ml , the upper limit in normal sera . these data suggest that serum aldolase c may be a more specific and sensitive marker of cerebrovascular diseases than aldolase a. we also demonstrated that serial measurement of serum aldolase c in patients with cerebrovascular diseases might be useful in estimating prognosis , since serially increasing serum aldolase c levels during the course of these diseases were correlated with a high mortality rate . 
the " stuck twin " phenomenon : ultrasonographic findings , pregnancy outcome , and management with serial amniocenteses . thirteen consecutive twin pregnancies affected by the " stuck twin " phenomenon were reviewed to determine the potential benefit of serial amniocenteses . the fetal survival rate for the eight pregnancies that underwent serial amniocenteses was 69 % ( 11 of 16 fetuses ) . this is significantly improved compared with a fetal survival rate of 20 % among the five preceding pregnancies managed without serial amniocenteses at the same institution ( p = 0.01 ) . it is also markedly improved compared with a combined fetal survival rate of 16 % among 48 previously reported pregnancies with the stuck twin phenomenon managed without serial amniocenteses ( p less than 0.0001 ) . survival correlated with the absence of concomitant pregnancy complications ( i.e. , maternal hypertension or intractable labor ) and with the absence of severe fetal structural abnormalities . procedural complications occurred in three of eight pregnancies ( 37.5 % ) managed with serial amniocenteses and was attributed as a cause of fetal death in one case . two of 11 survivors ( 18 % ) had complications after serial amniocenteses including brain infarction and renal tubular necrosis . serial amniocenteses may significantly improve the survival rate of twin gestations affected by the stuck twin phenomenon but may be associated with complications among survivors . 
pregnancy in a patient with treated wilson 's disease : a case report . pregnancy should have a successful outcome in a patient with treated wilson 's disease if complications are excluded before conception . chelating treatment must be maintained , although there is some concern about its teratogenicity . we describe the course of pregnancy in a patient followed up in our department . 
prenatal diagnosis of fetal intracranial calcifications . a case is presented wherein fetal intracranial calcifications as a result of intrauterine cytomegalovirus infection were visualized by computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging at 36 weeks ' gestation . diagnosis of in utero cytomegalovirus infection was made by isolation of the virus from amniotic fluid . no symptomatic abnormality has been noted in the neonatal period except periventricular calcifications . 
practical aspects of pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone administration . pulsatile administration of gonadotropin-releasing hormone represents a major advance in the treatment of anovulation in women who fail to ovulate with clomiphene citrate and is an alternative for many women who currently receive human menopausal gonadotropin . four issues must be addressed before administering pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone : ( 1 ) safety , ( 2 ) efficacy , ( 3 ) convenience , and ( 4 ) cost . each of these issues will be affected by the three major decisions a physician makes with gonadotropin-releasing hormone therapy : ( 1 ) patient selection , ( 2 ) route of administration , and ( 3 ) dose of gonadotropin-releasing hormone . the ideal candidate for gonadotropin-releasing hormone therapy is a patient with an absence of endogenous pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone , as seen in hypothalamic amenorrhea . although women with polycystic ovarian disease can be treated with pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone , a decreased ovulation rate should be expected . the route of administration , intravenous or subcutaneous , and the degree of monitoring can be tailored by the physician to fit each patient 's needs . pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone therapy is a safe , effective , convenient , and economical alternative to human menopausal gonadotropin for ovulation induction in women resistant to clomiphene . 
orbital intramuscular schwannoma . in an 8-year-old girl with asymptomatic proptosis , computed tomographic scans showed a large medial orbital mass that contoured the globe anteriorly , bowed the optic nerve laterally , and extended posteriorly to the orbital apex . t1-weighted coronal magnetic resonance images showed the mass to be a diffusely enlarged medial rectus muscle . histopathologic examination of a medial rectus muscle biopsy specimen disclosed a multinodular , intramuscular schwannoma , separating and infiltrating normal skeletal muscle fibers . the intramuscular location and multinodular configuration of this tumor , together with its occurrence in a child , distinguish it from previous orbital schwannomas . 
south american blastomycosis : ophthalmic and oculomotor nerve lesions . a case of south american blastomycosis began with an oropharyngeal lesion which was followed by a granulomatous uveitis . the patient was treated with amphotericin b and showed a clinical regression . four months later , he developed a right 3rd cranial nerve palsy , aggravating the clinical aspect with a severe generalized involvement of the central nervous system and death . necropsy showed blastomycotic meningoencephalitis . 
attenuation of suxamethonium myalgias . effect of midazolam and vecuronium . we studied the incidence of fasciculations and postoperative myalgias in 100 female outpatients who had laparoscopy under thiopentone , n2o , isoflurane anaesthesia . four groups of 20 patients each were pretreated with saline ( group 1 ) , tubocurarine 0.05 mg/kg ( group 2 ) , vecuronium 0.006 mg/kg ( group 3 ) , or midazolam 0.025 mg/kg ( group 4 ) , followed by suxamethonium 1.5 mg/kg . group 5 received only vecuronium 0.1 mg/kg as relaxant ( no suxamethonium ) . fasciculations were graded , and postoperative myalgias rated on the first and third postoperative days . in groups 1-5 the incidence of fasciculations was 95 , 15 , 25 , 95 and 0 % ; the incidence of myalgias on the first day after operation was 70 , 45 , 65 , 75 and 60 % , and on the third day after operation 20 , 5 , 20 , 20 , and 5 % , respectively . we conclude that pretreatment with vecuronium , but not midazolam , decreases the incidence of fasciculations after suxamethonium ( p less than 0.05 ) and that in this patient population , postoperative myalgias appear to be unrelated to the use of suxamethonium . 
spinal catheter anaesthesia for caesarean section in a patient with spina bifida . a patient with grossly deformed vertebral anatomy , scheduled for elective caesarean section , expressed her wish to stay fully awake during the procedure . epidural anaesthesia was considered to be impracticable , while dural puncture appeared possible only at thoracic level . spinal anaesthesia using a subarachnoid catheter placed at t7-8 was employed successfully . 
the woolley and roe case . a reassessment . in 1953 , two patients , cecil roe and albert woolley , sued their anaesthetist for alleged negligence because they had developed painful spastic paraparesis after spinal anaesthesia . the court found that phenol , which was used to sterilise the outside of the ampoules of local anaesthetic , had percolated the glass through invisible cracks , contaminating the solution , but that the anaesthetist could not have been aware of this risk . the case was important , despite the fact that judgement was in favour of the anaesthetist , because of the fears that it generated over the incidence of paralysis after spinal anaesthesia . the ' invisible crack ' theory has been the subject of much scepticism . new information has been obtained , and the case re-examined objectively . the most probable source of contamination , which led to paralysis in the two patients , and in a third who received spinal anaesthesia on the same day , has been identified . a similar explanation may lie behind a number of other episodes of paralysis associated with spinal anaesthesia . 
autonomic dysfunction and guillain-barre syndrome . the use of esmolol in its management . a 17-year-old girl with guillain-barre syndrome and autonomic dysfunction was treated successfully with esmolol . esmolol may be an appropriate drug for the rapid assessment and control of tachyarrhythmias in critically ill patients . 
loss of consciousness after emergence from anaesthesia . a case of suspected micturition syncope . a case of postanaesthesia micturition syncope with respiratory arrest is described . if syncope occurs , the temporary myocardial ischaemia and cerebral hypoperfusion may increase anaesthetic risk in the marginally compensated patient . the loss of airway protection during the syncopal period is also a cause of concern . we recommend the use of an indwelling bladder catheter during any prolonged surgical procedure . 
an evaluation of a 30-gauge needle for spinal anaesthesia for caesarean section . a 30-gauge spinal needle was evaluated for caesarean section , using a combined epidural/spinal technique , in 50 mothers . spinal anaesthesia failed in six mothers and was inadequate in another six . general anaesthesia was required on one occasion . a 25 % overall failure rate suggests that a 30-gauge needle is not a practical proposition for routine clinical practice . 
intrathecal anaesthesia for day-care surgery . a retrospective study of 160 cases using 25 - and 26-gauge spinal needles . the records of 160 day-care surgical patients who received intrathecal anaesthesia were reviewed . no major complications were recorded . the incidence of postspinal headache after puncture with a 25-gauge spinal needle was nearly four times more frequent compared to a 26-gauge needle . the occurrence of postspinal headache in patients over the age of 45 years was significantly less frequent ( p less than 0.05 ) than in younger patients . intrathecal anaesthesia was acceptable to 91 % of outpatients in this group . 
relief of injection pain in adults . emla cream for 5 minutes before venepuncture . the effectiveness of skin anaesthesia after 5 minutes ' topical application of a lignocaine-prilocaine cream was evaluated . one hundred and twenty patients estimated the pain of antecubital venepuncture both on a linear scale and verbally after use of the cream for either 5 or 60 minutes , a placebo cream or no treatment . reported pain was significantly less after only 5 minutes of the lignocaine-prilocaine cream ( p = 0.002 ) . the cream can be used to relieve the pain of all routine injections . 
resistance to atracurium-induced neuromuscular blockade in patients with intractable seizure disorders treated with anticonvulsants . previous studies have demonstrated that , with the exception of atracurium , resistance to the neuromuscular blocking effects of various muscle relaxants develops in patients receiving anticonvulsant therapy . we studied the effects of 0.5 mg/kg iv atracurium in 53 neurosurgical patients : 21 nonepileptic patients receiving no anticonvulsant therapy ( med = 0 ) ; 14 epileptic patients treated with carbamazepine for years ( med = 1 ) ; and 18 epileptic patients treated with carbamazepine plus either phenytoin or valproic acid for years ( med = 2 ) . the evoked compound electromyogram of the adductor pollicis brevis was recorded , and results were analyzed using analysis of covariance , with weight and age as covariables . the onset time was not significantly different among the three groups . times for recovery of baseline and train-of-four responses to stimuli were significantly shorter in the med = 1 and med = 2 groups than in control patients ( med = 0 ) . the recovery index ( time between 25 % and 75 % recovery of baseline electromyogram values ) was progressively shorter in the three groups ( med = 0 : 8.02 min ; med = 1 : 5.93 min ; med = 2 : 1.96 min ; p less than 0.001 ) . this study demonstrates that atracurium , when used on epileptic patients requiring long-term ( that is , years of ) anticonvulsant therapy , has a shorter duration of action than when used in nonepileptic patients . 
infection during chronic epidural catheterization : diagnosis and treatment . a potentially serious complication of long-term epidural catheterization in cancer patients is infection . the early signs of infection were studied in 350 patients in whom long-term epidural catheters were inserted . three areas of the catheter track were found to be involved ; exit site and superficial catheter track infection , and epidural space infection . the authors identified the early signs of infection in each area and the progress of the infection from the deep track to include the epidural space in four of these patients . all 19 patients who developed deep track or epidural infections were successfully treated with antibiotics and catheter removal . none of the patients required surgery for spinal cord decompression . catheters were replaced in 15 of the 19 treated patients who requested them after treatment with no recurrent infections . it was concluded that use of long-term epidural catheterization is associated with a definable epidural infection rate . the use of epidural opioid analgesia is an effective and safe means of obtaining pain relief for terminally ill patients when patients are monitored for possible infection and receive prompt treatment when the diagnosis is established . 
differential effect of oncotic pressure on cerebral and extracerebral water content during cardiopulmonary bypass in rabbits . to study the effect of oncotic pressure on brain water content during cardiopulmonary bypass ( cpb ) , 14 anesthetized new zealand white rabbits underwent 60 min of nonpulsatile cpb at normothermia . animals were grouped according to the composition of the circuit priming fluid . group 1 animals ( n = 7 ) received a priming fluid ( 6.5 % hydroxyethyl starch in 0.72 n nacl ; 323 + / - 13 mosm/kg [ mean + / - sd ] ) that maintained normal colloid oncotic pressure ( cop ) during cpb ( 19.0 + / - 1.5 mmhg ) . group 2 animals ( n = 7 ) received a priming fluid ( 0.9 n nacl ; 324 + / - 23 mosm/kg ) that led to a hypooncotic state ( cop = 6.2 + / - 1.2 mmhg ) . blood chemistries and hemodynamics were recorded every 15 min during cpb . animals were given additional priming fluid and sodium bicarbonate during cpb to maintain a circuit flow of 85 ml.kg-1 . min-1 and arterial ph greater than 7.35 . there were no significant differences between groups 1 and 2 with respect to temperature , central venous pressure , mean arterial pressure , pao2 , paco2 , plasma sodium concentration , or osmolality at any time during cpb , although osmolality increased in both groups . after 60 min of bypass , animals were killed and organ water contents were determined by wet/dry weight ratios . a separate group of nine similarly prepared and anesthetized animals that did not undergo cannulation or cpb also underwent measurement of plasma chemistries and tissue water contents and served as nonbypass controls ( group 3 ) . brain and kidney water contents were unaffected by oncotic pressure , whereas duodenum and skeletal muscle had significantly greater water content ( p = 0.003 and p = 0.008 , respectively ) after hypooncotic cpb . 
buffered versus plain lidocaine as a local anesthetic for simple laceration repair . study objective : buffered lidocaine was compared with plain lidocaine as a local anesthetic for simple lacerations . design : randomized , double-blind , prospective clinical trial . setting : urban emergency department . type of participants : ninety-one adult patients with simple linear lacerations were enrolled . patients with allergy to lidocaine and patients with an abnormal mental status were excluded . interventions : each wound edge was anesthetized with either plain or buffered lidocaine using a randomized , double-blind protocol . the pain of infiltration was measured with a previously validated visual analog pain scale . measurements and main results : analysis of pooled data and paired data ( using patients as their own controls ) revealed that infiltrating buffered lidocaine was significantly less painful than plain lidocaine ( p = .03 and p = .02 , respectively ) . there was no significant difference in the anesthetic effectiveness of the two agents during suturing . conclusion : buffered lidocaine is preferable to plain lidocaine as a local anesthetic agent for the repair of simple lacerations . 
neurologic complications of cocaine abuse . the neurologic complications of cocaine toxicity are responsible for a major portion of the morbidity and mortality associated with cocaine . most of the complications appear to be related to the hyperadrenergic state induced by cocaine and may be treated symptomatically . diazepam is the most effective drug for cocaine-induced seizures . 
occipital condyle fracture presenting as retropharyngeal hematoma . reported is the case of a 30-year-old male motorcycle accident victim who was found on plain cervical-spine radiography to have prevertebral soft-tissue swelling . although subsequent computed tomography demonstrated no cervical-spine fracture , it did reveal a fracture of one occipital condyle . the mechanism , diagnosis , and treatment of occipital condyle fractures are reviewed , as is the ligamentous and fascial anatomy of the cervicocranium . dissection of fracture hematoma inferiorly along vertically oriented tissue planes is hypothesized as the pathogenesis of our patient 's retropharyngeal hematoma . in addition to being a sign of potential cervical-spine injury , post-traumatic prevertebral soft-tissue swelling may also indicate occipital condyle fracture . to avoid overlooking such fractures , computed tomography undertaken to investigate upper cervical-spine prevertebral soft-tissue swelling should always include slices up to the level of the basal skull so as to visualize the condyles . 
erythromycin failure with subsequent pasteurella multocida meningitis and septic arthritis in a cat-bite victim . we report the case of a 75-year-old woman who developed pasteurella multocida meningitis and septic arthritis while being treated for a cat-bite wound infection with erythromycin . review of the literature revealed that erythromycin has poor in vitro activity against this bacterium and has been associated with serious clinical failures . we recommend that erythromycin not be prescribed for empiric therapy of established animal-bite infections . suggestions for optimal empiric therapy of animal-bite infections and the differential diagnosis of severe cat-bite-associated sepsis are discussed . 
distinguishable types of dyspnea in patients with shortness of breath . dyspnea frequently accompanies a variety of cardiopulmonary abnormalities . although dyspnea is often considered a single sensation , alternatively it may encompass multiple sensations that are not well explained by a single physiologic mechanism . to investigate whether breathlessness experienced by patients represents more than one sensation , we studied 53 patients with one of the following seven conditions : pulmonary vascular disease , neuromuscular and chest wall disease , congestive heart failure , pregnancy , interstitial lung disease , asthma , and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . patients were asked to choose descriptions of their sensation ( s ) of breathlessness from a dyspnea questionnaire listing 19 descriptors . cluster analysis was used to identify natural groupings among the chosen descriptors . we found that patients could distinguish different sensations of breathlessness . in addition , we found an association between certain groups of descriptors and specific conditions producing dyspnea . these findings concur with those in an earlier study in normal volunteers in whom dyspnea was induced by various stimuli . we conclude that different types of dyspnea exist in patients with a variety of cardiopulmonary abnormalities . furthermore , different mechanisms may mediate these various sensations . 
carotid endarterectomy for elderly patients : predicting complications objective : to determine whether the complication or death rate from carotid endarterectomy can be predicted from hospital and physician structural variables , such as the hospital 's teaching status or the number of endarterectomies done by the surgeon per year . design : survey of medical records . after controlling for the severity of the patient 's condition on the basis of data in the medical record at the time of the endarterectomy , regression analyses were used to predict the postoperative stroke , heart attack , and 30-day death rate as a function of patient , physician , and hospital characteristics . setting : three geographic areas ( states or large parts of states ; average population , 3 million ) in the united states . patients : random sample of 1302 patients 65 years of age or older having carotid endarterectomy in 1981 . intervention : carotid endarterectomy . measurements and main results : of 1302 patients , 11.3 % had a postoperative stroke or heart attack or died within 30 days of the operation . patient age , race , income , and gender ; physician volume , board certification status , and age ; and hospital size , for-profit status , ownership , and teaching status were not significantly related to the postoperative complication or death rate . if the surgeon was a graduate of a foreign , but not a western european or canadian , medical school , however , the average complication or death rate rose from 10.4 % to 19.6 % ( p less than 0.05 ) . conclusions : the effectiveness of carotid endarterectomy depends heavily on its complication rate . because complications after surgery can not , in general , be predicted from structural variables , referring physicians can not rely solely on the surgeon 's experience and qualifications when recommending a carotid endarterectomy . the surgeon 's and the hospital 's actual postoperative complication and death rate should be considered . 
emergence of recreational drug abuse as a major risk factor for stroke in young adults objective : to investigate the clinical and epidemiologic relations between recreational drug abuse and stroke in young persons . design : a case-control study based on medical records . setting : san francisco general hospital , a 400-bed municipal hospital . patients : consecutive sample of 214 patients aged 15 to 44 years , admitted between 1979 and 1988 with a diagnosis of ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke . an equal number of control patients admitted with diagnoses of status asthmaticus , acute appendicitis , or acute cholecystitis were matched to stroke patients by age , sex , and year of hospitalization . measurements and main results : seventy-three patients with stroke ( 34 % ) were drug abusers compared with 18 ( 8 % ) of the controls . in 47 patients with stroke , temporal proximity of drug administration ( n = 34 ) or infectious endocarditis ( n = 13 ) suggested a direct association between drug abuse and stroke . after controlling for other identifiable stroke risk factors , the estimated relative risk for stroke among drug abusers compared with that among non-drug abusers was 6.5 ( 95 % ci , 3.1 to 13.6 ) , and this increased to 49.4 ( ci , 6.4 to 379.0 ) for those patients whose symptoms began within 6 hours of drug administration . among patients less than 35 years of age , drug abuse was the most commonly identified potential predisposing condition ( 47 % ) , and it was the only condition with a significantly elevated relative risk for stroke ( 11.7 ; ci , 3.2 to 42.5 ) . further , a substantial rise in the proportion of drug-related strokes was observed in the last 3 years of the study ( 31 % in 1986 to 1988 , compared with 15 % in 1979 to 1985 , p = 0.008 ) . cocaine , especially recently , was the drug used most frequently in drug-related strokes . conclusion : in an urban population such as ours , recreational drug abuse appears to be a prominent and growing risk factor for strokes in young adults . 
improving outcomes of analgesic treatment : is education enough ? frequent undertreatment of analgesic-responsive acute pain and chronic cancer pain persists , despite intensive efforts to provide clinicians with information about analgesics . a set of background factors must be addressed in interventions to improve pain treatment : traditional patterns of clinician and patient interaction on the ward , quality assurance , and drug regulatory practices do not support prompt recognition and treatment of pain . possible interventions to modify these patterns of daily practice include monitoring and displaying patient pain ratings routinely , making available educational tools to assist optimal drug ordering , encouraging patients to communicate about unrelieved pain , reviewing quality assurance of pain treatment regimens , increasing behavioral research into analgesic prescribing , and selectively modifying narcotics regulatory practices . 
clarifying confusion : the confusion assessment method . a new method for detection of delirium objective : to develop and validate a new standardized confusion assessment method ( cam ) that enables nonpsychiatric clinicians to detect delirium quickly in high-risk settings . design : prospective validation study . setting : conducted in general medicine wards and in an outpatient geriatric assessment center at yale university ( site 1 ) and in general medicine wards at the university of chicago ( site 2 ) . patients : the study included 56 subjects , ranging in age from 65 to 98 years . at site 1 , 10 patients with and 20 without delirium participated ; at site 2 , 16 patients with and 10 without delirium participated . measurements and main results : an expert panel developed the cam through a consensus building process . the cam instrument , which can be completed in less than 5 minutes , consists of nine operationalized criteria from the diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders ( dsm-iii-r ) . an a priori hypothesis was established for the diagnostic value of four criteria : acute onset and fluctuating course , inattention , disorganized thinking , and altered level of consciousness . the cam algorithm for diagnosis of delirium required the presence of both the first and the second criteria and of either the third or the fourth criterion . at both sites , the diagnoses made by the cam were concurrently validated against the diagnoses made by psychiatrists . at sites 1 and 2 values for sensitivity were 100 % and 94 % , respectively ; values for specificity were 95 % and 90 % ; values for positive predictive accuracy were 91 % and 94 % ; and values for negative predictive accuracy were 100 % and 90 % . the cam algorithm had the highest predictive accuracy for all possible combinations of the nine features of delirium . the cam was shown to have convergent agreement with four other mental status tests , including the mini-mental state examination . the interobserver reliability of the cam was high ( kappa = 0.81 - 1.0 ) . conclusions : the cam is sensitive , specific , reliable , and easy to use for identification of delirium . 
stroke in pediatric acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . in a 4 1/2 - year period , 4 of 68 children in a longitudinal study of neurological complications of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection had clinical and/or neuroradiological evidence of stroke , yielding a clinical incidence of stroke in this population of 1.3 % per year . during this period , 32 subjects died , and permission for autopsy was granted in 18 of the patients , including 3 of 4 who had clinical evidence of stroke . the prevalence of cerebrovascular pathological features in our consecutive autopsy series was higher than the clinical incidence . at autopsy cerebrovascular disease was documented in 6 ( 24 % ) of 25 children with hiv infection , including all 3 children who had clinical evidence of stroke . four patients had intracerebral hemorrhages , 6 patients had nonhemorrhagic infarcts , and 3 had both . hemorrhage was catastrophic in 1 child and clinically silent in 3 children , all of whom had immune thrombocytopenia . one child had an arteriopathy that affected meningocerebral arteries . in another child , the arteries of the circle of willis were aneurysmally dilated . two children had coexisting cardiomyopathy and subacute necrotizing encephalomyelopathy with vascular proliferation . these results suggest that stroke should be considered when children with hiv infection develop focal neurological signs . 
myasthenic thymus and thymoma are selectively enriched in acetylcholine receptor-reactive t cells . we compared t-cell proliferative responses to acetylcholine receptor ( achr ) and to purified protein derivative ( ppd ) ( of tuberculin ) of hyperplastic thymus , thymoma , and blood cells from patients with myasthenia gravis ( mg ) . hyperplastic mg thymus cells gave significantly higher and more consistent responses to achr than parallel cultures of autologous blood cells , whereas responses to ppd showed an opposite trend . thus there was a preferential localization of achr-reactive t cells in the hyperplastic mg thymus . furthermore , there was a strong correlation between blood and thymus cell responses to ppd ( but not to achr ) , arguing that the hyperplastic mg thymus contains a sample of sensitized peripheral t cells . by contrast , both achr - and ppd-responsive t cells were almost undetectable in thymus from nonmyasthenic patients , which is evidently much less receptive to circulating t cells . cells from mg thymomas showed the highest stimulations by achr but did not consistently react to ppd . however , the uninvolved thymus adjacent to these thymomas behaved almost identically to the hyperplastic samples described above . our interpretation is that achr-specific t cells are initially sensitized in the mg thymoma but are selectively trapped in the hyperplastic thymus after being primed elsewhere . 
auras and subclinical seizures : characteristics and prognostic significance . the characteristics and prognostic significance of subclinical seizures and independent auras were studied in 40 patients with partial epilepsy who had long-term electroencephalographic ( eeg ) monitoring with intracranial electrodes . focal , restricted subclinical seizures were noted in 23 patients , and 11 patients experienced auras that were accompanied by ictal eeg discharges . auras and subclinical seizures usually were identical in eeg appearance , but were distributed differently among patients . the subclinical seizures and auras usually had the same origin as complex partial seizures , but did not always reliably indicate complex partial seizure origin . subclinical seizures and auras were of favorable prognostic significance for patients undergoing temporal lobectomy . a majority ( greater than 80 % ) of individuals with subclinical seizures and auras were free of complex partial seizures after surgery , whereas a minority ( 29 % ) of patients without subclinical seizures and auras became free of complex partial seizures . 
increased mepp frequency as an early sign of experimental immune-mediated motoneuron disease . intracellular recordings of miniature end-plate potentials were performed in extensor digitorum longus muscles from guinea pigs with experimental immune-mediated motoneuron destruction . in the early stages of the disease , the miniature end-plate potential frequency was elevated compared to that in control and normal animals . the amplitude and time course of the miniature end-plate potentials as well as the resting potential of the muscle fibers were not altered , which implies integrity of the postjunctional membrane . the increase in frequency of miniature end-plate potential reflects an increase of basal acetylcholine release and documents dysfunction of the presynaptic terminal of the neuromuscular junction . the increased frequency was associated with high levels of antimotoneuronal igg in the blood and the presence of igg at motor end-plates . these data suggest that the presynaptic terminal of the neuromuscular junction may be involved in the immune attack in animal models of motoneuron degeneration . 
anoxic injury of mammalian central white matter : decreased susceptibility in myelin-deficient optic nerve . the rat optic nerve , a typical central nervous system white matter tract , rapidly loses excitability when it is exposed to anoxia and is irreversibly damaged by prolonged anoxia . neonatal optic nerve is extremely resistant to anoxia-induced dysfunction and injury ; the adult pattern of response to anoxia appears between 10 and 20 days postnatal , that is , during the period of oligodendroglial proliferation and myelination . to test the hypothesis that myelination , or associated events , confer anoxic susceptibility on developing white matter , we analyzed the effects of anoxia on the myelin-deficient ( md ) strain of rat . acutely isolated optic nerves from 19 - to 21-day-old md rats and control optic nerves from unaffected male littermates were maintained in vitro at 37 degrees c , and exposed to a standard 60-minute period of anoxia . the supramaximal compound action potential was recorded and amplitude of the compound action potential , expressed as % of amplitude before anoxic exposure , was determined . the compound action potential was nearly abolished within 3 to 6 minutes after onset of anoxia in control optic nerves , while optic nerves from md rats displayed a slower decrease in compound action potential amplitude during anoxia , with a distinct action potential present even after 60 minutes of anoxia . optic nerves from md rats showed significantly greater recovery of compound action potential ( 71 + / - 25 % ) than did control optic nerves ( 33 + / - 21 % ; p less than 0.02 ) after 60 minutes of anoxia . these findings support the hypothesis that myelination , or changes associated with it , may be important in the development of anoxic susceptibility in central white matter . 
substantia nigra : a site of action of muscle relaxant drugs . sites of action of centrally active muscle relaxant drugs are not well defined . clinical experience with such drugs suggests that the spinal cord may be one of the important regions from which pathologically increased muscle tone may be relieved . supraspinal centers that may also be involved in the expression of muscle relaxant action have not yet been defined . we report here that microinjections of therapeutically relevant muscle relaxants into the midbrain tegmentum of genetically spastic rats decrease muscle tone . the substantia nigra is the region from which midazolam , baclofen , and tizanidine ( drugs used clinically in the treatment of spasticity ) , or gamma-vinyl-gaba , ( - ) -2 - amino-7-phosphonoheptanoate , and [ d-pro2-d-phe7-d-trp9 ] - substance p ( experimental drugs active in animal models of spasticity ) , reduce muscle tone in genetically spastic rats and hoffmann reflexes in normal rats . the effects of muscle relaxant drugs are topographically restricted to the substantia nigra pars reticulata and are receptor specific . these observations disclose a previously unknown function of the substantia nigra in mediating muscle relaxation . 
polyneuropathy , ophthalmoplegia , leukoencephalopathy , and intestinal pseudo-obstruction : polip syndrome . we describe 5 individuals ( from three separate families ) with a progressive neurological disorder characterized by sensorimotor peripheral polyneuropathy , cranial neuropathies ( external ophthalmoplegia , deafness ) , and the syndrome of chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction . magnetic resonance imaging showed widespread abnormality of the cerebral and cerebellar white matter in the 2 patients studied . autopsy examination in 3 revealed widespread endoneurial fibrosis and demyelination in the peripheral nervous system , possibly secondary to axonal atrophy , and poorly defined changes in cerebral white matter ( leukoencephalopathy ) . the cranial nerves and spinal roots were less severely involved and the neurons in the brainstem and spinal cord were intact . the fatal gastrointestinal dysmotility was due to a severe visceral neuropathy . we suggest that these patients manifested a hereditary disorder with distinctive clinical , radiological , and neuropathological features , and propose the acronym polip to emphasize the distinctive tetrad of polyneuropathy , ophthalmoplegia , leukoencephalopathy , and intestinal pseudo-obstruction . 
major histocompatibility complex antigen expression in the affected tissues in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis . monoclonal antibody immunocytochemistry was used to examine spinal cord and muscle in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis for changes that would indicate ongoing or potential immune activity . increased expression of class i and ii major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) antigens was seen in the affected areas of spinal cord . new mhc expression was concentrated in phagocytes , particularly in degenerating white matter in which they were dispersed in the tissue and also packed around blood vessels . mhc antigen was not revealed in motor neurons or skeletal muscle fibers . an anti-pan-t-cell monoclonal revealed small numbers of t cells in degenerating white matter . similar changes have been seen in other neurodegenerative disorders . they suggest a potential for ( secondary ) cell-mediated activity in the affected areas rather than an ongoing mhc-restricted t-cell response . vessel-associated phagocytes may be a source of antigen to peripheral lymphoid tissue , stimulating production of the autoantibodies that have been described . 
igm deposits at nodes of ranvier in a patient with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis , anti-gm1 antibodies , and multifocal motor conduction block . we studied a patient with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis , multifocal motor conduction block , and igm anti-gm1 antibodies . a sural nerve biopsy demonstrated deposits of igm at nodes of ranvier by direct immunofluorescence . the deposits were granular and located in the nodal gap between adjacent myelin internodes , and in some instances , they extended along the surface of the paranodal myelin sheath . when injected into rat sciatic nerve , the serum igm bound to the nodes of ranvier , and the binding activity was removed by preincubation with gm1 . these observations suggest that anti-gm1 antibodies may have caused motor dysfunction by binding to the nodal and paranodal regions of peripheral nerve . 
spinal cord compression with paraplegia in xanthomatosis due to normocholesterolemic sitosterolemia . a 48-year-old woman with a 30-year history of tendinous xanthomatosis developed paraplegia . the magnetic resonance image revealed extramedullary tumors . the analysis of her sera and tumors revealed increased amount of plant sterols , especially sitosterol , and the diagnosis of sitosterolemia was made . this is the first reported case of a patient with sitosterolemia who had the neurological complication of spinal cord compression due to extramedullary sitosterolemic xanthomas . 
ichthyosis , mental retardation , and asymptomatic spasticity . a new neurocutaneous syndrome with normal fatty alcohol : nad + oxidoreductase activity . a number of inherited disorders of cornification have been related to abnormal lipid metabolism . in the recessively inherited sjogren-larsson syndrome , defined by the triad of ichthyosis , mental retardation , and spasticity , fatty alcohol : nad + oxidoreductase deficiency has recently been reported . these patients accumulate fatty alcohol in the plasma and cultured fibroblasts . a 19-year-old woman with ichthyosis , mental retardation , and mild spasticity is described in whom fatty alcohol metabolism was normal , as determined by plasma octadecanol level and fibroblast fatty alcohol : nad + oxidoreductase activity . ultrastructural studies on skin from the patient revealed morphologically abnormal epidermal lamellar bodies , not unlike those seen in neutral lipid storage disease with ichthyosis . we postulate that this patient has a novel neurocutaneous syndrome that may be secondary to abnormal lipid metabolism . 
ischaemic brain lesions diagnosed at birth in preterm infants : clinical events and developmental outcome . in 232 newborn babies of less than 32 weeks ' gestational age ultrasound brain scans were carried out shortly after birth , daily for the first week of life , and at least twice weekly thereafter . periventricular echogenicity associated with or progressing to periventricular leukomalacia ( ischaemic brain lesions ) was present in nine babies within two hours of birth ( early onset ) ; 30 other babies subsequently developed similar lesions ( late onset ) . babies with early onset lesions were more likely to have a history of intrauterine growth retardation and to have recurrent apnoea in the first few hours after birth . by contrast , late onset lesions were associated with hyaline membrane disease . in later childhood four of six survivors with early onset periventricular leukomalacia , and seven of 14 survivors with late onset periventricular leukomalacia , had various disabilities including spastic diplegia , impaired vision , squints , sensorineural hearing loss , and developmental delay . in a third of the children with disabilities ischaemic brain lesions were noted within two hours of birth , raising the possibility that some of this damage had taken place before or during birth . 
area of lateral ventricles measured on cranial ultrasonography in preterm infants : association with outcome . the association between measurements of lateral ventricle area ( determined by serial ultrasound scans ) and outcome was studied in 70 preterm neonates of 33 weeks ' gestation or less . the study group was subdivided into four groups according to cranial ultrasonographic findings at 2 weeks postnatal age : group a ( n = 15 ) had isolated periventricular/intraventricular haemorrhage ; group b ( n = 20 ) had periventricular/intraventricular haemorrhage and dilated ventricles ; group c ( n = 24 ) had periventricular/intraventricular haemorrhage and periventricular leukomalacia with or without dilated ventricles ; and group d ( n = 11 ) had isolated periventricular leukomalacia . eighty seven preterm infants with no evidence of intracranial disease and good neurodevelopmental outcomes at 2 years formed the control group . a poor outcome was observed in infants in group b , c , and d , particularly in those who had persistent dilated ventricles at 6 weeks postnatal age and extensive periventricular leukomalacia . there was no difference in outcome between group a and controls . during the first six weeks of life ventricular area growth velocities were significantly higher in groups b , c , d , compared with normal controls and group a. we suggest that persistent ventricular dilatation at this early stage carries a bad prognosis , which is the result of atrophy of the brain . 
skin conductance and arousal in the newborn . we measured skin conductance continuously from the sole of a foot in babies of different conceptional ages before , during , and for 10 minutes after a ' heel prick ' carried out for routine blood sampling . we studied 82 healthy babies whose gestational and postnatal ages ranged from 25-42 weeks , and 1-73 days . the median skin conductance level ( preheel prick ) in babies of 40-43 weeks ' conceptional age was 0.6 micros ( microsiemens ) and differed significantly between awake babies ( 1.2 micros ) and those who were asleep ( 0.5 micros ) . in contrast babies less than 40 weeks had a significantly lower median skin conductive level ( 0.3 micros ) which was identical in awake and asleep babies . in response to the heel prick all babies became aroused and skin conductance rose sharply and immediately in 21 out of 22 ( 95 % ) babies 40-43 weeks ' conceptional age , and in seven out of 23 ( 30 % ) babies 36-39 weeks . the median rise at one minute in babies of 40-43 weeks was significantly higher than those 36-39 weeks ( 2.7 micros compared with 0.5 micros ) . no babies less than 36 weeks had a change in their skin conductance after the heel prick . these results are consistent with the notion that 'em otional sweating ' is a function of maturity and does not develop until 36 weeks ' conceptional age . 
the acutely affected abdomen in paraplegic spinal cord injury patients . the records of 145 paraplegic or quadriplegic patients were reviewed to identify those factors useful in the correct diagnosis of the acute abdomen in this population . twenty-one patients had 22 episodes of acute or subacute abdominal problems . presenting complaints , physical findings , and laboratory results were useful in various ways . however appropriate radiographic studies led to the correct diagnosis in 77 % of patients . although paraplegic and quadriplegic patients are predisposed to a distinct constellation of medical problems , including urinary tract infection and calculi , they also may present with other abdominal conditions that cause significant morbidity and mortality if not promptly recognized . 
does carotid restenosis predict an increased risk of late symptoms , stroke , or death ? the identification of carotid restenosis as an unexpected late complication of carotid endarterectomy has prompted concerns regarding its importance as a source of new cerebral symptoms , stroke , and death . to investigate these concerns , we analyzed a consecutive series of 507 patients undergoing 566 carotid endarterectomies , each documented as technically satisfactory . post-operative duplex doppler examination data at 3 days , 1 , 3 , 6 , 12 months , and annually thereafter in 484 arteries ( 85.5 % ) permitted classification of these arteries according to the most severe degree of postoperative stenosis : normal ( n = 306 ) ; 1 % to 19 % ( n = 89 ) ; 20 % to 50 % ( n = 40 ) ; more than 50 % ( n = 49 , including 8 occluded ) . the incidence of more than 50 % restenosis was 14.5 % in female and 7.7 % in male patients ( p = 0.003 ) . life table analyses to 10 years revealed a significantly greater life expectancy among those with restenosis ( p = 0.05 ) . stroke was also less likely in patients with restenosis , although this difference did not reach statistical significance . when survival and stroke were both endpoints , the likelihood of patients with more than 50 % restenosis remaining alive and stroke free was also greater than the less than 20 % stenotic group ( p = 0.03 ) . thus patients with carotid restenosis were less likely than patients with normal postoperative scans to have late symptoms , stroke , or early death . 
choreoathetosis after deep hypothermia without circulatory arrest in 8 of 758 patients undergoing an intracardiac operation under cardiopulmonary bypass and hypothermia , choreoathetosis developed 3 to 7 days postoperatively . before the onset of choreoathetosis , varying degrees of neurological dysfunction were noted . electroencephalography and neuroimaging failed to detect any responsible functional or structural changes . six patients are alive 1 to 3 years postoperatively , and their condition is improving . two patients died of aspiration or sepsis . all patients were grouped based on factors identified as being possibly causative : depth of hypothermia , cooling time , flow rate , and repeated hypothermia . the incidence of choreoathetosis was significantly different in group a ( rectal temperature greater than 25 degrees c ) compared with group b ( rectal temperature less than or equal to 25 degrees c ) ( 0/295 versus 8/463 ; p = 0.02 ) . based on cooling time , the incidence of choreoathetosis was significantly different in group b1 ( cooling time less than 1 hour ) compared with group b2 ( cooling time greater than or equal to 1 hour ) ( 1/220 versus 7/243 ; p = 0.05 ) . based on flow rate during cooling , group b2 was further divided into the low-flow group ( less than 1,500 ml.min-1 . m-2 ) and the high-flow group ( greater than or equal to 1,500 ml.min-1 . m-2 ) . although not significant , the incidence of choreoathetosis was higher in the high-flow group ( 6/153 versus 1/90 ; p = 0.22 ) . in group b patients having reoperation , the incidence of choreoathetosis was higher than in patients operated on for the first time ( 5/54 versus 3/409 ; p less than or equal to 0.0001 ) . 
vagal schwannoma . a patient with a benign encapsulated intrathoracic vagal schwannoma is presented and the literature is reviewed . the right paratracheal tumor was identified incidentally on a chest film and excised using a right thoracotomy . although rare , vagal schwannomas should be considered for any mediastinal mass along the vagus nerves especially when the paratracheal tumor produces minimal or no respiratory symptoms suggesting a slow-growing , encapsulated process . 
role of perfusion pressure and flow in major organ dysfunction after cardiopulmonary bypass . the role of perfusion pressure and flow during cardiopulmonary bypass with moderate hypothermia and hemodilution in the development of new postoperative renal or clinically apparent cerebral dysfunction was examined in 504 adults . cardiopulmonary bypass flow was targeted at greater than 40 ml.kg-1 . min-1 and pressure at greater than 50 mm hg . flows and pressures less than target occurred in 21.6 % and 97.1 % of patients , respectively . fifteen patients ( 3.0 % ) suffered new renal and 13 ( 2.6 % ) new central nervous system dysfunction . low pressure or flow during cardiopulmonary bypass , expressed in absolute values or in intensity-duration units , were not predictors of either adverse outcome . multivariate analysis identified use of postoperative intraaortic balloon counterpulsation ( p less than 10 ( -6 ] , excessive blood loss in the icu ( p less than 10 ( -4 ] , need for vasopressors before cardiopulmonary bypass ( p less than 10 ( -4 ] , postoperative myocardial infarction ( p less than 10 ( -3 ] , emergency reoperation ( p less than 0.002 ) , excessive postoperative transfusion ( p less than 0.02 ) , and chronic renal disease ( p less than 0.03 ) as independent predictors of postoperative renal dysfunction . independent predictors of postoperative central nervous system dysfunction were cardiopulmonary resuscitation in the intensive care unit ( p less than 10 ( -6 ] , intracardiac thrombus or valve calcification ( p less than 0.02 ) , and chronic renal disease ( p less than 0.03 ) . age greater than 65 years ( 40.7 % of patients ) did not predict either outcome . we conclude that failure of the native circulation during periods other than cardiopulmonary bypass rather than the flows and pressures considered here is the major cause of renal and clinically apparent central nervous system dysfunction after cardiac operations . 
misdiagnosis in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis . to confirm our impression that a high percentage of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis are initially misdiagnosed , we reviewed records of 33 patients with a definitive diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis seen over 10 years . fourteen patients ( 43 % ) were initially misdiagnosed . mean time to correct diagnosis was significantly greater for the misdiagnosed group ( 16.0 + / - 9.3 months ) than for the rest of the patients ( 7.6 + / - 4.1 months ) . two of three patients with an initial symptom of dyspnea were misdiagnosed . three patients underwent laminectomies because of misdiagnosis . age , stage of disease , and unusual presenting symptoms were not identified as causes of misdiagnosis . most likely causes were physicians ' failure to consider the diagnosis and lack of familiarity with the common clinical presentations of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis . earlier diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis may help prevent medical mismanagement and may benefit patients both medically and psychologically . 
syncope and presyncope associated with probable adverse drug reactions . the purpose of this study was to determine whether syncope and presyncope were associated with drug therapy in 70 patients referred to a tertiary care ambulatory clinic . drug use information was obtained , validated , and classified by its potential to cause syncope and presyncope . utilizing a standardized adverse drug reaction algorithm , nine ( 13 % ) of the 70 patients were rated as having probable drug-induced syncope and presyncope events . overall , 12 medications were implicated . patients with probable adverse drug reactions were older , and taking more medications , or taking an antihypertensive . seven of the nine patients with probable adverse drug reactions were previously classified as having syncope of unknown origin after their initial clinic evaluation . syncope and presyncope are commonly associated with adverse drug reactions , especially in the elderly and those taking multiple medications . 
epidemiologic features of asymptomatic cerebral infarction in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation . we performed unenhanced computed tomographic scans on 141 asymptomatic patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation . thirty-six patients ( 26 % ) had hypodense areas consistent with cerebral infarction . the majority of these were small deep infarcts , seen in 29 patients ( 21 % ) , but 13 patients ( 9 % ) had cortical or large deep infarctions . twelve patients had more than one infarct on computed tomographic scan . increasing age and increased left atrial diameter were the only clinical features associated with asymptomatic infarction . patients older than 65 years with a left atrial diameter greater than 5.0 cm ( n = 23 ) had a 52 % prevalence of asymptomatic infarction . patients younger than 65 years with a left atrial diameter less than 5.0 cm ( n = 38 ) had an 11 % prevalence of silent infarction . patients with only one of these risk factors ( n = 72 ) had a 24 % prevalence of silent infarction . infarction was more common in those with chronic ( 34 % ) as opposed to intermittent ( 22 % ) nonvalvular atrial fibrillation , but this difference was not significant . hypertension , diabetes , duration of atrial fibrillation , congestive heart failure , history of myocardial infarction , and echocardiographic evidence of left ventricular dysfunction were not associated with asymptomatic infarction . a history of hypertension was present in only 35 % of our patients with small-deep asymptomatic infarction , similar to the percentage in patients without stroke . asymptomatic cerebral infarction is common in nonvalvular atrial fibrillation . the association with enlarged left atria and the lack of correlation with major cerebrovascular risk factors suggests a cardioembolic mechanism . further study is needed to determine the functional and prognostic significance of these strokes . 
acute autonomic neuropathy . two cases and a clinical review . acute autonomic neuropathy is an uncommon syndrome , usually affecting healthy young people . presentation is often dramatic and initial misdiagnosis is common . we describe two young women with acute autonomic neuropathy who presented with gastrointestinal involvement heralding widespread dysautonomia and review 26 additional cases of acute autonomic neuropathy from the english language literature . acute autonomic neuropathy can be primarily cholinergic without orthostatic hypotension ( 26 % ) or pandysautonomic ( 74 % ) involving sympathetic adrenergic functions . onset has been temporally related to viral syndromes in 20 % of cases , with autonomic deficits usually evolving over 1 to 3 weeks . gastroparesis ( 69 % ) and syncope ( 12 % ) are frequent presenting complaints . spinal fluid protein levels are often ( 75 % ) elevated in pandysautonomic subtypes . prolonged and incomplete recovery is the rule ( 60 % ) , with persistent gastroparesis and orthostatic hypotension . other specific diseases that occasionally mimic acute autonomic neuropathy include botulism , porphyria , amyloidosis , and paracarcinomatous neuropathies . acute autonomic neuropathy shares several clinical features with acute idiopathic polyneuropathy ( guillain-barre syndrome ) , suggesting an immune-mediated pathogenesis . 
recurrent meningitis in a patient with congenital deficiency of the c9 component of complement . first case of c9 deficiency in europe . we describe the first cases , to our knowledge , of c9 deficiency in europe that were detected in a swiss family , of which two members -- one with a complete deficiency and the other with approximately half-normal c9 levels -- experienced bacterial meningitis . the index patient , a 56-year-old white man with a history of purulent meningitis at the age of 23 years , presented with an acute meningococcal meningitis . no impairment of cellular immunity or immunoglobulin deficiency could be found . complement assays showed a complete deficiency of the c9 component , while the other individual component levels were normal and the hemolytic activity ( measured using the ch50 assay ) was only slightly reduced . a family study revealed complete c9 deficiency in the patient 's healthy brother and half-normal c9 concentrations in his sister , his son ( who also had experienced an episode of bacterial meningitis ) , and his niece , consistent with an inherited c9 deficiency . this first case of recurrent meningitis in a white patient with complete c9 deficiency suggests that this complement defect may also be a risk factor for bacterial , especially neisserial , infections . 
gilles de la tourette syndrome is not linked to d2-dopamine receptor . gilles de la tourette syndrome has an important genetic component ; the pathophysiology of this disorder may involve the dopamine system . we tested a d2-dopamine receptor ( locus drd2 , recognized by probe hd2g1 ) for genetic linkage with gilles de la tourette syndrome . using a genetic linkage map of the region of drd2 on the long arm of chromosome 11 and restriction fragment length polymorphism data from a total of four markers ( drd2 itself , d11s84 , d11s29 , and pbgd ) , we were able to exclude linkage of this candidate gene and gilles de la tourette syndrome in two extended kindreds segregating for gilles de la tourette syndrome . this rules out causation of gilles de la tourette syndrome by mutation in drd2 in the kindreds studied under the genetic assumptions we employed ; use of the map and multipoint linkage analyses also allowed us to exclude a gilles de la tourette syndrome susceptibility locus from a larger genetic region . 
quantitative evaluation of sway as an indicator of functional balance in post-traumatic brain injury . the test of sway , using different conditions of stance with measurements of the average radial deviation of the center of pressure and its path length of sway per unit of time , has been shown to be a useful clinical tool in determining balance problems in traumatic brain injury ( tbi ) patients . normative values were established to determine if an individual patient 's sway values fell within the normal range ( mean + / - 2sd ) . the tests have shown good test-retest reliability for tbi patients . in addition , it has been shown that the sensitivity of the test is sufficient to identify changes in patients ' performances as their clinical conditions change . it has been demonstrated that the different stance conditions of the battery of tests become progressively more difficult to perform ( from comfortable stance , eyes open and eyes closed , through narrow stance , eyes open and eyes closed , to tandem stance with right or left foot forward , eyes open and eyes closed ) . by using these subtests , it is easy to distinguish between the performances of able-bodied patients and tbi patients with very mild balance problems . the validity of the measure has been documented by correlating the sway performance with clinical functional performance tests . the test performance also correlates with the patient 's own assessment of his or her gait difficulties . the limited data available suggest that the test of sway relates difficulties in static balance to the frequency of falls . finally , subtests permit identification of specific problems in maintaining balance as a basis for therapeutic intervention . 
asymptomatic ulnar neuropathy in carpal tunnel syndrome . quantitative assessment of the vibration threshold of the second and fifth fingertips at 125hz was performed on 28 affected limbs of 17 patients with carpal tunnel syndrome ( cts ) together with a median and ulnar sensory nerve conduction velocity ( sncv ) study . twenty-six limbs of 26 age-matched healthy subjects were used as controls . both the vibration threshold elevation of the second finger and the delay of median sncv were significant in cts patients as compared with controls ( p less than .001 ) . although the ulnar sncvs of all affected limbs were within the normal range , ten affected limbs ( 36 % ) were found to have a concomitant vibration threshold elevation of the fifth finger , and eight of those limbs were found to be exposed to chronic occupational mechanical stimulation at the wrist . these findings appear to support the presence of subclinical traumatic damage to the ulnar nerve at the wrist . in summary , digital vibration measurement can elucidate subclinical ulnar neuropathy in cts which can not be detected by sncv studies . 
postoperative complications in patients with disabling psychiatric illnesses or intellectual handicaps . a case-controlled , retrospective analysis . the purpose of this study was to quantitate the operative risk and costs encountered in the surgical treatment of institutionalized patients . operative complications and duration of hospitalization for 200 institutionalized patients were compared with those in a control group of patients matched for age , sex , and type of operation drawn from the general hospital population . postoperative complications occurred in 53 ( 26.5 % ) of the patients in the study group compared with 15 ( 7.5 % ) of the patients in the control group . elective laparotomy was followed by a complication in 48 % of institutionalized patients compared with 11.6 % of matched controls . emergency celiotomy carried a 75 % complication rate in the study group . atelectasis and pneumonia accounted for 50 % of the postoperative complications and occurred with greatest frequency following intra-abdominal procedures . the median hospital stay for all institutionalized patients was 3 days more than for matched controls . a strategy for postoperative treatment is presented , with particular emphasis on prevention of pulmonary complications . 
the influence of hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus on immediate and 3-month morbidity and mortality after acute stroke . fasting serum glucose , glycosylated hemoglobin , and fructosamine concentrations were determined in 304 consecutive subjects admitted with acute stroke , within 48 hours of ictus . based on the medical history and these results , subjects were divided into known diabetics , newly diagnosed diabetics , subjects with stress hyperglycemia , and nondiabetics . the type of stroke was classified as lacunar infarct , cerebral infarct , or intracerebral hemorrhage , based on clinical examination by a neurologist and computed tomographic brain scan and/or autopsy . immediate and 3-month outcomes were examined in relation to ( 1 ) fasting glucose , glycosylated hemoglobin , and fructosamine levels by stroke subtypes , and ( 2 ) glucose tolerance categories by stroke subtypes . a high fasting glucose level was associated with an increased mortality , but this was observed only among patients with intracerebral hemorrhage . patients with stress hyperglycemia , but not diabetics , had increased mortality . in spite of having similar glucose concentrations to those patients with stress hyperglycemia , diabetics did not have a worse outcome compared with nondiabetics . it is concluded that the association between glucose concentration and outcome is a reflection of stress relating to stroke severity , rather than a direct harmful effect of glucose on damaged neurons . 
screening for early dementia using memory complaints from patients and relatives . this study examined whether the subjective impression of memory function might differentiate healthy elderly subjects from patients with memory complaints , and whether memory complaints differed between patients with and without a dementing illness . both self-assessment and relatives ' responses on a new memory questionnaire differentiated patient groups from control subjects . the relatives ' form measuring deterioration in memory function over time identified dementing individuals from those with non-dementing causes for their memory complaints . factor analysis indicated that patients ' memory complaints correlated with depression rather than objective memory performance , while relatives ' ratings correlated with objective memory scores , not depression . stepwise discriminant function analyses showed that objective memory testing greatly improved specificity but not sensitivity of the subjective memory questionnaire alone . 
cerebrospinal fluid as a reflector of central cholinergic and amino acid neurotransmitter activity in cerebellar ataxia . cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) amino acid neurotransmitters , related compounds , and their precursors , choline levels , and acetylcholinesterase activity were measured in the csf of patients with cerebellar ataxia during a randomized , double-blind , crossover , placebo-controlled clinical trial of physostigmine salicylate . the csf gamma-aminobutyric acid , methionine , and choline levels , adjusted for age , were significantly lower in patients with cerebellar ataxia compared with controls . physostigmine selectively reduced the level of csf isoleucine and elevated the levels of phosphoethanolamine . no change occurred in csf acetylcholinesterase activity and in the levels of plasma amino compounds in patients with cerebellar ataxia when compared with controls . median ataxia scores did not statistically differ between placebo and physostigmine nor did functional improvement occur in any of the patients . 
asthma and eczema in children born to women with migraine . migraine and asthma have been reported to occur in the same person more commonly than would be expected if they are independent . the large collaborative perinatal project provided an opportunity to see if children born to women with migraine or with the group of disorders characterized by asthma and/or allergies were more likely to manifest asthma or eczema in the first 7 years of life . among children whose mothers had neither migraine nor asthma/allergies , 3.2 % had asthma . of children whose mothers had migraine , but not asthma/allergies , more than 6 % had asthma . the risk of asthma among children born to women who had both migraine and asthma/allergies was greater than the risk associated with each maternal disease . the risk of eczema in children was not appreciably influenced by the mother 's propensity to migraine or asthma/allergies . the results of this first study of migraine in one generation and asthma in the next lead to the conclusion that the two disorders are probably related . 
temporoparietal cortex in aphasia . evidence from positron emission tomography . forty-four aphasic patients were examined with ( f18 ) - fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in a resting state to determine whether consistent glucose metabolic abnormalities were present . ninety-seven percent of subjects showed metabolic abnormalities in the angular gyrus , 89 % in the supramarginal gyrus , and 87 % in the lateral and transverse superior temporal gyrus . pearson product moment correlations were calculated between regional metabolic measures and performance on the western aphasia battery . no significant correlations were found between the western aphasia battery scores and right hemisphere metabolic measures . most left hemisphere regions correlated with more than one score from the western aphasia battery . temporal but not frontal regions had significant correlations to the comprehension score . the left temporoparietal region was consistently affected in these subjects , suggesting that common features in the aphasias were caused by left temporoparietal dysfunction , while behavioral differences resulted from ( 1 ) the extent of temporoparietal changes , and ( 2 ) dysfunction elsewhere in the brain , particularly the left frontal and subcortical areas . 
nontropical pyomyositis as a cause of subacute , multifocal myalgia in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . we report a case of nontropical pyomyositis in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and disseminated mycobacterium avium infection , in which severe myalgia was the presenting symptom over several weeks . multifocal muscle lesions were identified by gallium scanning and magnetic resonance imaging techniques . the epidemiology , possible pathogenesis , clinical features , diagnostic imaging , and therapy are reviewed . early suspicion of nontropical pyomyositis in severely immunocompromised patients with " cryptic " myalgia is recommended . 
neurodevelopmental outcome of children with evidence of periventricular leukomalacia on late mri . fifteen children , 8 months of age or older , from a neonatal follow-up program underwent magnetic resonance imaging and neurologic , cognitive , and language evaluations . magnetic resonance imaging findings in all children included increased white matter signal on t2-weighted images and ventricular enlargement adjacent to regions of abnormal white matter . the extent of degree of abnormal white matter signal and the degree of sulcal prominence were variable . twelve children had cerebral palsy ; 5 children , 4 of whom had cerebral palsy , manifested significant sensory impairments . the median score on cognitive testing was 89 ; only 2 children exhibited severe-to-profound cognitive disability . cognitive scores were stable on retesting . the degree of motor disability was correlated with the extent of white matter signal abnormality ; however , cognitive outcome was not related to the extent and degree of white matter signal abnormality or to the degree of sulcal prominence . despite the association of a major handicapping condition and periventricular leukomalacia , cognitive and language functioning may be relatively spared . 
rett syndrome : cerebellar pathology . the cerebellar pathology at autopsy of 5 patients with rett syndrome is described . the patients ranged in age from 7-30 years . all had markedly reduced brain weights with proportionately small cerebella . microscopic examination revealed loss of purkinje cells , atrophy , astrocytic gliosis of the molecular and granular cell layers , and gliosis and loss of myelin in the white matter . cortical atrophy occurred focally along the folia and was often more marked in the tips of the folia . the 2 oldest patients had been treated with phenytoin which may have contributed to the morphologic changes . atrophy and gliosis increased with age or in patients without phenytoin treatment ; the youngest patient demonstrated only minor microscopic changes . in addition to the generalized alterations , 1 patient had several adjacent folia with severe atrophy . the results indicate that cerebellar changes in rett syndrome consist of general hypoplasia with the addition of atrophy beginning in childhood and progressing over many years . 
recurrent lateral rectus palsy in childhood . five patients with recurrent , lateral rectus palsy in childhood , examined at the university of iowa hospitals over a period of 22 years , are reported . during the same period , 131 abducens nerve palsy patients , younger than 18 years of age , were evaluated . eighteen similar patients , most single case reports , are reviewed from the literature . all reported patients , including our own , shared the following features : spontaneous recovery within 6 months in the majority of patients , ipsilateral recurrence , and painless palsy . there is female and left-sided preponderance . etiology is undetermined . hypotheses include viral etiology , neurovascular compression by aberrant artery , and migraine . 
ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging in leigh disease . an infant with leigh disease , who was the younger sister of a similarly affected infant , had been examined before the onset of the disease . ultrasonography revealed hyperechoic lesions in the putamen and caudate nucleus during the preclinical stage . at onset , these changes extended into the cerebral cortex and medulla . these lesions were also detected by t2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) as areas of increased signal intensity . her brother demonstrated the same ultrasonographic results ; cranial computed tomography disclosed low-density areas in the basal ganglia which were detected as hyperechoic lesions by ultrasonography . these findings suggest that ultrasonography is useful in detecting early intracranial lesions in leigh disease . 
rett syndrome : findings suggesting axonopathy and mitochondrial abnormalities . we report the histopathologic findings of 3 sural nerve biopsies and 1 muscle biopsy from 3 patients with rett syndrome . the 3 sural nerve biopsies demonstrated a few ultrastructural abnormalities , including the presence of many pi-granules and mitochondrial changes in the cytoplasm of schwann cells , occasional bands of bungner and onion-bulb formations , and mitochondrial alterations in myelinated axons . morphometric analysis disclosed reduction in the number of large myelinated fibers with normal densities in comparison to those of an age-matched normal control . light microscopic examination of the biopsied muscle from a 6-year-old patient with rett syndrome revealed the existence of many small , dark , angulated fibers with nadh-tr staining . ultrastructural investigation of the muscle confirmed the presence of the dumbbell-shaped mitochondria . peripheral nerve involvement and the possibility of mitochondrial abnormalities in rett syndrome were suggested by the results . 
west syndrome associated with hyperlexia . two patients are reported with west syndrome associated with hyperlexia . they had peculiar linguistic and psychosocial development and autistic behavior , yet began to read japanese and chinese characters , numbers , roman alphabet letters , and trademark letters at 3 years of age . neuropsychologic , electroencephalographic , and radiologic studies were performed at 11 years of age in patient 1 and at 10 years of age in patient 2 . although they were able to read fluently with correct intonation , their comprehension was significantly impaired . the neuropsychologic evaluation of both patients demonstrated selective , excellent ability in auditory memory in contrast to impairment of associational abilities , visual retention , and visual constructional abilities . these findings suggest that the functions in the nondominant hemisphere were also impaired . although children with west syndrome frequently have associated mental retardation , patients with west syndrome associated with hyperlexia have never been reported . a neuropsychologic investigation of epileptic children with mental retardation is necessary for the detection of hyperlexia . 
flow cytometric dna content of adenoid cystic carcinoma of submandibular gland . correlation of histologic features and prognosis . flow cytometric analysis of nuclear dna content was performed in 26 adenoid cystic carcinomas of the submandibular gland using archived , paraffin-embedded tissues . the dna content was compared with multiple histologic parameters and clinical course . ten carcinomas ( 38 % ) were aneuploid and 16 ( 62 % ) diploid . aneuploid carcinomas demonstrated a higher frequency of solid cytoarchitecture , lymph node metastases , and advanced clinical stage , as compared with diploid carcinomas . other histologic features predicting aggressive clinical behavior also correlated with abnormal dna content and included invasion of nerves larger than 0.25 mm and intravascular extension . our data suggest that dna content analysis can be an effective objective parameter in the clinicopathologic assessment of adenoid cystic carcinoma . 
the use of obstetric analgesia in sweden 1983-1986 the use of obstetric analgesia was investigated in a swedish population-based prospective study of 335,207 births , which represents almost all women who had vaginal deliveries in sweden between 1983 and 1986 . lumbar epidural analgesia ( eda ) was used in 16 % , paracervical block ( pcb ) in 12 % , pethidine or morphine in 49 % and pudendal block in 62 % . all four types of analgesia were much more commonly used by nulliparae than multiparae . variables such as maternal age , smoking , nationality , relationship with the infant 's father and gestational age had only moderate influence on the rates of different types of analgesia . eda and pcb were more frequently used in larger than in smaller hospitals and in the daytime than at night . no such differences were found for pethidine or morphine , or pudendal block , which were administered routinely by midwives . 
choroid plexus cysts and chromosomal defects during a 4-year period , 83 pregnant women with fetal choroid plexus cysts were investigated in our unit . abnormal karyotypes were found in 20 fetuses , including trisomy 18 ( n = 16 ) , trisomy 13 ( n = 1 ) , triploidy ( n = 1 ) and translocation down 's syndrome ( n = 2 ) . all fetuses with chromosomal defects had structural malformations in addition to the choroid plexus cysts . 
neurologic complications in chronic renal failure : a retrospective study . we have retrospectively examined 324 patients with chronic renal failure and evaluated the probable underlying causes of neurologic complications , laboratory data and therapeutic interventions . the common neurologic problems in our patients were alterations in consciousness ( 40.7 % ) and convulsions ( 35.1 % ) . when bun concentration was above 135 mg/dl and creatinine clearance was below 8 m/min/1 .73 m2 , alteration of consciousness was observed and when bun concentration was 200 mg/dl and creatinine clearance was below 7 m/min/1 .73 m2 , abnormal convulsives appeared . changes in deep tendon reflexes and pathologic reflexes were associated with hypertension . all of the patients with cortical atrophy using computerized cranial tomography aluminum hydroxide at least for 18 months , and six of them had hemodialysis . fourteen patients who underwent dialysis developed convulsions and were thought to have disequilibrium syndrome . these findings are consistent with the suggestion that the metabolic and biochemical derangements associated with crf may be particularly detrimental to the still developing cns of the child . 
evaluation and treatment of mental disorders in patients with aids . mental symptoms are common in patients with aids . optimal management involves the identification and treatment of underlying mental disorders rather than symptomatic treatment alone . organic mental disorders are very frequent in aids , particularly with seriously ill patients who are medical inpatients . there is a high priori probability that such common symptoms as agitation , irritability , and insomnia will be caused by an organic mental disorder . psychopharmacology in the patient with aids requires considerable caution . lower doses and careful surveillance for subtle neuropsychiatric side effects are necessary . routine medical contact with a compassionate physician may be of inestimable value to the patient in coping with the fear and dread that surround the illness . 
schindler disease : the molecular lesion in the alpha-n-acetylgalactosaminidase gene that causes an infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy . schindler disease is a recently recognized infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy resulting from the deficient activity of the lysosomal hydrolase , alpha-n-acetylgalctosaminidase ( alpha-galnac ) . the recent isolation and expression of the full-length cdna encoding alpha-galnac facilitated the identification of the molecular lesions in the affected brothers from family d , the first cases described with this autosomal recessive disease . southern and northern hybridization analyses of dna and rna from the affected homozygotes revealed a grossly normal alpha-galnac gene structure and normal transcript sizes and amounts . therefore , the alpha-galnac transcript from an affected homozygote was reverse-transcribed , amplified by the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) , and sequenced . a single g to a transition at nucleotide 973 was detected in multiple subclones containing the pcr products . this point mutation resulted in a glutamic acid to lysine substitution in residue 325 ( e325k ) of the alpha-galnac polypeptide . the base substitution was confirmed by dot blot hybridization analyses of pcr-amplified genomic dna from family members with allele-specific oligonucleotides . furthermore , transient expression of an alpha-galnac construct containing the e325k mutation resulted in the expression of an immunoreactive polypeptide which had no detectable alpha-galnac activity . 
effect of normal msafp screening on maternal age for genetic amniocentesis . routine maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein ( msafp ) screening for neural tube defects is considered by many to be standard obstetrical care , and recently many have encouraged this test to screen for trisomy-21 ( down 's syndrome ) . we questioned whether , after a normal msafp screen , the risk of trisomy-21 decreases enough to warrant modifying the recommended age for genetic amniocentesis for down 's syndrome . a logistic regression was developed which , using reported values for sensitivity and specificity for msafp detection of trisomy-21 and assuming a constant threshold risk in opting for amniocentesis , indicates that genetic amniocentesis for trisomy-21 may be deferred in some women who have a normal msafp screening . sensitivity analysis of varying thresholds for a normal msafp demonstrates that a 37 year old woman with a median msafp level has the same risk for trisomy-21 as an unscreened women who is 4.5 years younger . an abnormal msafp is useful in screening for neural tube defects and possibly for trisomy-21 . a normal msafp may allow for delaying the potentially risky amniocentesis in otherwise low-risk pregnancies . 
acupuncture and chronic pain : a criteria-based meta-analysis . a literature search revealed 51 controlled clinical studies on the effectiveness of acupuncture in chronic pain . these studies were reviewed using a list of 18 predefined methodological criteria . a maximum of 100 points for study design could be earned in four main categories : ( a ) comparability of prognosis , ( b ) adequate intervention , ( c ) adequate effect measurement and ( d ) data presentation . the quality of even the better studies proved to be mediocre . no study earned more than 62 % of the maximum score . the results from the better studies ( greater than or equal to 50 % of the maximum score ) are highly contradictory . the efficacy of acupuncture in the treatment of chronic pain remains doubtful . 
the role of carotid screening before coronary artery bypass . five hundred thirty-nine patients with no symptoms of cerebral ischemia undergoing coronary artery bypass were preoperatively evaluated for presence of carotid stenosis by noninvasive methods ( duplex scanning and ocular pneumoplethysmography-gee ) . overall prevalence of carotid stenosis greater than 75 % was higher ( 8.7 % ) than that generally reported . age greater than 60 years was significantly related to presence of carotid stenosis greater than 75 % ( 11.3 % vs 3.8 % , p = 0.003 ) . risk factors such as hypercholesterolemia , hypertension , diabetes mellitus , and smoking were not predictive for carotid stenosis , postoperative stroke , or death . carotid stenosis greater than 75 % ( odds ratio 9.87 , p less than 0.005 ) and coronary artery bypass redo ( odds ratio 5.26 , p less than 0.05 ) were both independent predictors of stroke risk . patients were divided into four groups : group 1 , minimal or mild degree of carotid stenosis ( less than 50 % ) , not submitted to prophylactic carotid endarterectomy ( 432 patients , 80.1 % ) ; group 2 , moderate degree of stenosis ( 50 % to 75 % ) , no prophylactic carotid endarterectomy ( 60 patients , 11.2 % ) ; group 3 , severe carotid stenosis ; ( greater than 75 % ) , submitted to prophylactic carotid endarterectomy ( 19 patients , 3.5 % ) , group 4 , severe carotid stenosis ( greater than 75 % ) no prophylactic carotid endarterectomy ( 28 patients , 5.2 % ) . patients in group 4 had significantly higher stroke rate ( 14.3 % ) compared to the other three groups ( 1.1 % ) ( p = 0.0019 ) . the finding of carotid stenosis greater than 75 % in patients over 60 years of age was associated with occurrence of stroke in 15 % of cases . carotid screening is helpful to determine patients at increased risk of stroke and should be performed in patients greater than 60 years . 
a single cholesterol measurement underestimates the risk of coronary heart disease . an empirical example from the lipid research clinics mortality follow-up study . in prospective epidemiologic studies of coronary heart disease , a single measurement of cholesterol is made to assess its relationship to the risk of coronary disease . statistical theory states that if this measurement is subject to within-individual variability , the strength of the relationship will be underestimated . this is empirically shown for the example of plasma cholesterol . for the lipid research clinics follow-up study population ( comprising 2170 white men over 30 years of age ) , the age-adjusted coronary heart disease mortality regression coefficient increases from .453 to .496 if the average of two cholesterol measurements is used instead of a single measurement . since the correlation between the two repeated cholesterol measurements is .815 , an increase in the regression coefficient up to .556 would be expected if the true cholesterol values were available . thus , epidemiologic studies have substantially underestimated the strength of the relationship between cholesterol levels and the risk of coronary disease by calculating the relationship on the basis of a single cholesterol determination . 
acute syphilitic posterior placoid chorioretinitis . six patients with evidence of secondary syphilis presented with visual loss in both eyes caused by large , placoid , yellowish lesions with faded centers at the level of the pigment epithelium in the macula and juxtapapillary areas . all eyes had vitreitis . all of the lesions showed a similar fluorescein angiographic pattern of early hypofluorescence and late staining . five patients had mucocutaneous lesions typical of secondary syphilis . all five patients treated with antibiotics had prompt improvement in visual function and resolution of the fundus lesions . the ophthalmoscopic and angiographic appearance of these posterior fundus lesions was sufficiently characteristic to suggest a diagnosis of secondary syphilis . modification of the host response to syphilis by human immune deficiency virus ( hiv ) infection may be partly responsible for this peculiar fundus picture . three of the four patients tested positive for hiv . 
repetitive strain injuries . how to deal with ' the epidemic of the 1990s ' . occupational trends , especially the mushrooming of computer use in the united states , have brought with them a virtual epidemic of repetitive strain injury of the upper limb . what can you as a primary care physician do to stem the tide ? in this article , the authors fill you in on treatment of the most common injuries as well as remark on the ramifications for business and industry . 
treating systemic fungal infections in aids patients . prolonging life against the odds . fungal infections have become one of the major causes of death among immunocompromised patients , particularly patients with aids . accurate and quick diagnosis is difficult ; therefore , empirical therapy is often necessary . this scenario is complicated by the fact that most antifungal agents are toxic at the doses used or relatively ineffective against deep-seated mycoses . because the population of aids patients is increasing , physicians will be faced more often with the management of systemic fungal infections . despite the current bleak prognosis for these patients , several new antigen detection tests are being developed and triazole agents are proving to be effective and less toxic than their predecessors . many cases of systemic mycoses do result in mortality , but appropriate treatment can both prolong life and improve its quality . 
rigid fixation of internal orbital fractures . when large portions of the internal orbit are destroyed ( two to four walls ) , standard bone-grafting techniques for immediate and late orbital reconstruction may not yield predictable eye position . critical bone support is most often deficient inferomedially . ct analysis of orbital volume in cases where eye position was unsatisfactory reveals that displacement of bone grafts is one mechanism of the unsatisfactory result . other mechanisms include undercorrection and bone-graft resorption . in order to minimize postoperative bone-graft displacement , titanium implants were used to span large defects in the internal orbit to provide a platform for bone-graft support . twenty-six implants were placed in immediate and 12 were placed in late orbital reconstructions . more reliable bone-graft position resulted . two late infections have occurred resulting in implant removal in a 3-year period . 
early cerebral infarction : gadopentetate dimeglumine enhancement gadopentetate dimeglumine was administered prospectively to 50 patients who presented for magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging within 2 weeks after a cortical cerebral infarction . twenty-two patients ( 44 % ) were imaged within 3 days after clinical ictus . abnormalities detected with gadopentetate dimeglumine enhancement were observed in 46 ( 92 % ) of 50 patients . classic parenchymal enhancement was a late finding , observed in all patients ( 17 of 17 ) imaged at 7-14 days after infarction . before this time , three additional phases of contrast material-related abnormalities were observed . enhancement of vessels supplying the infarct ( " intravascular enhancement sign " ) was the earliest finding , seen in 17 ( 77 % ) of 22 infarcts aged 1-3 days . from day 2 to day 6 , abnormal enhancement of meninges adjacent to the infarct was frequently noted ( " meningeal enhancement sign " ) . finally , a transition phase that combined intravascular or meningeal enhancement with early parenchymal enhancement was seen from day 3 to day 6 . gadopentetate dimeglumine-enhanced mr imaging in early stroke reveals evidence of vascular engorgement and sluggish flow , which precede the development of classic parenchymal enhancement . 
embolization with particles in thoracic intramedullary arteriovenous malformations : long-term angiographic and clinical results . to evaluate the long-term results of endovascular treatment with particles in the management of thoracic intramedullary arteriovenous malformations ( avms ) , the authors retrospectively reviewed the angiographic and clinical findings in 35 patients . follow-up was 1-15 years ( mean , 6 years ) in 28 patients and 6-10 months ( mean , 7 months ) in seven . a total of 158 embolization procedures were performed in 35 patients . revascularization occurred frequently , necessitating multiple endovascular sessions . long-term clinical evaluation showed clinical improvement , compared with the initial status before treatment , in 63 % of the patients . clinical aggravation due to embolization was observed in seven patients ( 20 % ) after 12 of the 158 endovascular sessions ( 8 % ) . these results are better than those reported after surgery and indicate that embolization with particles is an efficient and safe tool in the treatment of thoracic intramedullary avms . 
graves orbitopathy : correlation of ct and clinical findings . the clinical and high-resolution computed tomographic ( ct ) findings in 71 patients ( 142 orbits ) with graves orbitopathy and 20 healthy patients ( 40 orbits ) were retrospectively reviewed . the orbits with orbitopathy were subgrouped at clinical examination into those with ( n = 18 ) and those without ( n = 124 ) optic neuropathy . mean extraocular muscle diameters and the calculated muscle diameter index were significantly increased in all orbits with ophthalmopathy , particularly in those with optic neuropathy . graves orbitopathy affected the superior muscle group ( 63.4 % ) more than the medial ( 61.3 % ) or inferior ( 57 % ) recti . the most common pattern of muscle involvement involved all five measured extraocular muscles . solitary muscle involvement most frequently involved the superior muscle group ( 6.3 % ) . significant enlargements of the retrobulbar optic nerve sheath and superior ophthalmic vein were noted only in orbits with optic neuropathy . anterior displacement of the lacrimal gland at ct correlated with clinical palpability and occurred more frequently in patients with optic neuropathy . severe apical crowding was the most sensitive indication of optic neuropathy at ct . 
neuromuscular diseases : evaluation with high-frequency sonography . forty-four patients with clinically suspected neuromuscular disease and 12 healthy volunteers underwent high-frequency ultrasound examination of the rectus femoris , vastus medialis , vastus lateralis , and biceps brachii muscles , and the number of perimysial septa was determined . these numbers and muscle/soft-tissue ratios of the lower extremity were compared . findings were correlated with results of muscle biopsy in all patients with suspected disease . using the number of perimysial septa in the lower extremity , the authors found significant differences between the muscles of healthy volunteers and those of patients with duchenne muscular dystrophies , other muscular dystrophies , and spinal muscular atrophies : the receiver operating characteristic curve showed that an average of 12 perimysial septa within 1 cm of muscle is the ideal cutoff value to differentiate subjects without morphologic changes from those with pathologic findings . the authors conclude that this measurement is useful for differentiation of neuromuscular diseases and may be a noninvasive , reproducible means with which to evaluate disease progression . 
emergency portosystemic shunt in patients with variceal bleeding . thirty-five patients for whom emergency sclerotherapy or conservative treatment , or both , failed to arrest variceal bleeding , or who had early rebleeding and required emergency portosystemic shunts ( epss ) were studied . epss permanently controlled the variceal bleeding in all but one patient . in this patient , the shunt was patent as demonstrated by angiography . esophageal varices disappeared in 18 patients and were reduced in 14 . three patients died before the endoscopic examination could be performed . the causes of death were hepatic failure in two and bleeding ulcerations of the gastric fundus in the other patient . one patient was classified in child 's category b and two in child 's category c. thirty-two patients submitted to epss and were discharged alive . twelve of these patients subsequently died , at an average of 11.2 months after undergoing the shunt procedure . four of 12 patients died of hepatic failure ; two patients died of hepatomas ; two , other neoplasia ; three , hemorrhaging duodenal ulcers , and one patient , renal failure . analysis of actuarial survival rates showed that the five year survival rate was 43 per cent . the long term survival rates were fewer for patients with child 's category c than for those with combined child 's categories a and b ( five year survival rates were 21 versus 55 per cent ; p less than 0.05 ) . during the follow-up period , none of the patients had variceal bleeding . chronic encephalopathy developed in six , which was mild in three , moderate in one instance and severe in two . it developed soon after epss , with onset in the first month after discharge in three . thus , when conservative treatment fails to arrest variceal bleeding , epss should be performed to guarantee definitive control of hemorrhage and prolong the survival period . 
vancomycin pharmacokinetics in hydrocephalic shunt prophylaxis and relationship to ventricular volume . vancomycin pharmacokinetics were determined in 25 patients receiving ventriculoperitoneal shunts for hydrocephalus . computed tomography scan-derived ventricular-brain ratio as an expression of hydrocephalus varied between 9.3 % and 15.4 % ( 12.9 % + / - 1.7 % ) . one hour prior to surgery each patient received 1 g of vancomycin infused intravenously over 60 minutes . samples of cerebrospinal fluid and venous blood were obtained 1 hour later and vancomycin levels assayed by fluorescence polarization immunoassay . there were 11 females and 14 males , with a mean age of 44.5 + / - 10.3 years and a mean weight of 72.0 + / - 11.4 kg . all had normal renal function . levels of vancomycin in the cerebrospinal fluid at 1 hour ranged from 0.1 to 1.5 micrograms/ml ( 0.9 + / - 0.3 ) . weight did not affect these values ( p greater than 0.1 ) . simultaneous blood vancomycin levels varied between 9.1 and 38.7 micrograms/ml ( 22.3 + / - 8.3 ) . ventricular volume , expressed as the ventricular-brain ratio , did not correlate with cerebrospinal fluid vancomycin levels ( p greater than 0.5 ) . there was no significant increase in concentrations of vancomycin in csf as cerebrospinal fluid protein concentration increased , nor when blood vancomycin concentration was greater than 20 mg/dl ( therapeutic range ) ( p greater than 0.1 ) . no patient had evidence of infection at 6 months follow up . these results indicate minimal cerebrospinal fluid penetrance of vancomycin when administered systemically 1 hour prior to shunt surgery . in addition concentrations of vancomycin in cerebrospinal fluid bear no relationship to weight , ventricular volume , meningeal inflammation , or blood levels in the therapeutic range . the minimum inhibitory concentration of vancomycin for staphylococci is 1.5 to 3.1 , and as bactericidal levels of 5 to 8 minimum inhibitory concentration are needed to kill organisms , a combination of both systemic and intraventricular vancomycin may be needed to ensure adequate cerebrospinal fluid and tissue concentration of antibiotic during shunt prophylaxis . 
cerebral blood flow velocities in the anterior cerebral arteries and basilar artery in hydrocephalus before and after treatment . we studied pourcelot 's index ( pi ) , which shows cerebral vascular resistance , in the anterior cerebral arteries and basilar artery , and the pi ratio ( pourcelot 's index in the anterior cerebral artery/pourcelot 's index in the basilar artery ) in 11 measurements of hydrocephalus . the mean values of pi in the anterior cerebral artery , basilar artery , and the pi ratio before treatment were significantly higher than those after treatment and those in normal infants . before treatment , the mean pi in the anterior cerebral arteries was significantly higher than the mean pi in the basilar artery . all pi ratios increased to 1.00 or more . after treatment and in normal infants , the mean pi in the anterior cerebral arteries was significantly lower than the mean pi in the basilar artery . all pi ratios decreased to less than 1.00 . we believe that the pi ratio is useful to evaluate the need or effect of treatment in hydrocephalus . 
brain stem tuberculoma in adult patients : diagnosis and treatment . a consecutive series of six adult patients ranging in age from 29 to 53 years is presented . the clinical and radiological features in each patient are described . attention is drawn to the features demonstrated on computed axial tomography . in only one patient , the first encountered , was surgical excision undertaken and histological verification obtained . one patient died before any form of treatment could be instituted . the remaining four patients were treated with antituberculous chemotherapy alone and their progress monitored by sequential computed tomography . the excellent response and good outcome in this conservatively treated group are documented . 
cerebral hemodynamics in patients with normal pressure hydrocephalus : correlation between cerebral circulation time and dementia . regional cerebral blood flow and regional cerebral circulation time were measured in 13 demented patients with chronic hydrocephalus , mostly normal pressure hydrocephalus . the average hemispheric , frontal , and temporal cerebral blood flows were significantly reduced . the average regional cerebral circulation time values were significantly prolonged in the frontal , temporal , and thalamic regions , most markedly in the frontal white matter , where periventricular lucency was observed on computed tomography . clinical improvement was obtained in all patients after operation . while postoperative regional cerebral blood flow values did not change compared with preoperative ones , postoperative regional cerebral circulation time values were significantly reduced in all the regions measured , and most markedly in the frontal white matter . the present results suggest that microcirculation in the frontal lobe is closely correlated with dementia in association with pressure exerted on the nerve fibers in the frontal white matter in patients with normal pressure hydrocephalus . 
aqueductal ( pencil ) glioma presenting as neurogenic pulmonary edema : a case report . a case of neurogenic pulmonary edema due to hydrocephalus , without initial neurological deficit , is described . computed tomography demonstrated a ring enhancing lesion in the tectum of the mesencephalon obstructing the aqueduct of sylvius . the lesion , on autopsy , was a rare mesencephalic glioma described in the literature as a " pencil glioma " of the aqueduct . 
metoprolol for aggressive behavior in persons with mental retardation . persons with mental retardation sometimes exhibit behaviors that are difficult to control . use of neuroleptic medications may be limited by side effects or ineffectiveness . beta blockers such as propranolol and metoprolol have been shown to decrease aggressive and impulsive behaviors in some patients with mental retardation . 
concomitant neurocysticercosis and brucellosis . a young mexican woman had headache and left arm weakness develop shortly after immigrating to the united states . a solitary cerebral cysticercus was found at surgery , but , instead of the expected finding of clear fluid , the cyst contained pus from which brucella melitensis was cultured . although the patient had no signs or symptoms suggestive of brucellosis , agglutination studies revealed igm and igg antibodies consistent with active brucellosis . clinicians should be alert to the possibility of multiple infections in immigrants from countries where parasites and bacteria that are uncommon in the united states are endemic . 
the deja vu experience : remembrance of things past ? the deja vu experience is a common phenomenon , occurring in pathological as well as nonpathological conditions . it has been defined as any subjectively inappropriate impression of familiarity of a present experience with an undefined past . the authors discuss the epidemiologic data , clinical features , and etiology of the phenomenon of deja vu . they also review the different hypotheses on the psychopathogenesis of the deja vu experience and introduce an explanation based on the hologram as a mnestic model . 
brainstem auditory evoked response and subcortical abnormalities in autism . previous studies of the neurobiology of autism that have used the brainstem auditory evoked response have given contradictory results . the authors of this study considered two supplementary aspects ; they added an ipsilateral masking procedure , and they compared the results for every subject to the values ( corrected for age and sex ) of a large number of normal children . twenty autistic ( according to dsm-iii-r criteria ) and 13 mentally retarded ( nonverbal iq less than 75 ) subjects were assessed . eighty percent of the autistic subjects had abnormal interpeak latencies , compared to 15 % of the mentally retarded subjects . the i-v and iii-v prolonged interpeak latency values were seen only in the autistic subjects . the ipsilateral masking procedure doubled the rate of detection of higher-brainstem abnormalities in the autistic children . 
the ucla-university of utah epidemiologic survey of autism : the etiologic role of rare diseases . twelve rare diseases known to cause cns pathology were found in 26 ( 11 % ) of 233 autistic probands identified during a recent epidemiologic survey of utah . these 26 probands had significantly lower mean iqs than the remaining patients ( 43 versus 60 ) but similar sex distribution and prevalence of abnormal eegs and seizures . the rarity and diversity of these 12 diseases make it highly unlikely that they randomly occurred with autism . their presence in this epidemiologic survey is the most compelling evidence to date to support the hypothesis that different diseases producing different types of cns pathology can play an etiologic role in autism . 
pharmacologic treatment of noncognitive behavioral disturbances in elderly demented patients . fifty-nine elderly residents of long-term care facilities who had dsm-iii diagnoses of dementia were studied in an 8-week randomized , double-blind comparison trial of haloperidol , oxazepam , and diphenhydramine to test the efficacy of these agents in the treatment of clinically significant behavioral disturbances in patients with dementia . all three agents demonstrated modest but significant efficacy as measured by clinician ratings of agitated behavior and activities of daily living . the absolute magnitude of improvement was greater for haloperidol and diphenhydramine than for oxazepam , but differences among groups did not approach statistical significance . frequencies of acute adverse events during the trial were similar across the drug treatment groups . although these drugs may differ in terms of long-term safety and efficacy , they appear to be equivalent for short-term management of agitated behavior in severely demented patients . 
steroid anabolic drugs and arterial complications in an athlete -- a case history . serious side effects and complications have been attributed to anabolic and androgenic steroids when used for medical reasons or when taken in sports in hopes of increasing strength and , hence , performance . the author presents a case of an athlete who experienced two metachronous arterial complications after taking these drugs : a cerebrovascular accident caused by a carotid artery thrombus that partially embolized to the brain and , later , a severe ischemic episode in a lower limb caused by a diffused distal arterial thrombosis . this patient represents the first reported case of vascular events in an otherwise healthy athlete taking androgens to increase his skeletal muscle mass . 
type i hypersensitivity to rubber . seven patients with type i hypersensitivity reactions to rubber are reported . radioallergosorbent testing with crude latex antigen was positive in 6/7 patients . five patients had coexisting spina bifida , and all had undergone surgery before the development of rubber allergy . rubber allergy is a new phenomenon that should be in the differential diagnosis of idiopathic anaphylaxis and urticaria . 
cystocerebral syndrome . acute urinary retention presenting as confusion in elderly patients . the diagnosis of acute mental status changes in the elderly patient is often very difficult . many causes are possible , and there is often little history obtainable . the physical examination occasionally provides the essential clues needed to discover the source of the sudden deterioration . we have recently evaluated four episodes of acute delirium in three elderly patients who presented with no readily apparent cause for these changes . on further evaluation , the patients were found to have marked bladder distention associated with acute urinary retention . none of these patients complained of discomfort , and none had any awareness or recollection of their deterioration . each patient had rapid resolution of symptoms on bladder decompression . to our knowledge , this " cystocerebral syndrome " has not been previously described , and we suggest that it be considered in the evaluation of acute confusional states in elderly men . 
rapid eye movement sleep deprivation as a probe in elderly subjects . the effects of a 2-night rapid eye movement ( rem ) sleep deprivation ( rsd ) procedure on electroencephalographic sleep and mood were examined in 15 healthy elderly control subjects , 14 elderly patients with endogenous depression , and 15 patients with primary degenerative dementia . compared with control subjects , both patient groups maintained a higher amount of rem sleep time and rem activity during rsd . unexpectedly , depressed patients showed little rebound in visually scored or automated rem sleep measures following rsd , and they showed stability of rem activity temporal distribution from baseline to recovery conditions . this contrasted with the rebound in rem sleep activity seen in control subjects , and the more modest increase in demented patients . the rsd was fairly specific , with some impact on delta sleep during the procedure but not during recovery sleep . mood ratings were unaffected by rsd . these findings demonstrated a greater plasticity of rem sleep regulation in the healthy elderly control subjects and suggested a higher rem " pressure " with a " ceiling effect " in depressed patients . patients with dementia appeared to have an impaired capacity to respond to the challenge of rsd . 
altered waveform of plasma nocturnal melatonin secretion in premenstrual depression . the nocturnal secretion of plasma melatonin was determined under dim to dark conditions in eight patients with prospectively confirmed premenstrual syndrome and in eight age - and menstrual cycle phase-matched normal control subjects . plasma samples for melatonin were collected every 30 minutes from 6 pm to 9 am during the early follicular , late follicular , midluteal and late luteal phases of the menstrual cycle . compared with normal controls , patients with premenstrual syndrome had an earlier ( phase-advanced ) offset of melatonin secretion , which contributed to a shorter secretion duration and a decreased area under the curve . no statistically significant differences were found between women with premenstrual syndrome and normal controls for melatonin onset or peak concentration , or for estradiol or progesterone levels . the data demonstrate that women with premenstrual syndrome have chronobiological abnormalities of melatonin secretion . the fact that these patients respond to treatments that affect circadian physiology , such as sleep deprivation and phototherapy , suggests that circadian abnormalities may contribute to the pathogenesis of premenstrual syndrome . 
a study of immunoglobulin g in the cerebrospinal fluid of 1007 patients with suspected neurological disease using isoelectric focusing and the log igg-index . a comparison and diagnostic applications . cerebrospinal fluid and serum immunoglobulin g from 1007 patients with suspected neurological disease were analysed by 2 methods : isoelectric focusing for the detection of oligoclonal banding , and quantitative measurement of igg and albumin for the formulation of a log igg-index . a comparison of the 2 methods in the detection of local synthesis of igg showed that isoelectric focusing not only gave a much higher yield overall , with 282 patients showing local synthesis versus 225 for the log igg-index , but also a higher specificity , with a false positive rate of 0 % versus 3.5 % . in addition , of the 282 patients positive by isoelectric focusing only 163 ( 58 % ) were positive by the log igg-index . of the 1007 patients studied , 206 had multiple sclerosis ( ms ) , and isoelectric focusing showed local synthesis in 95 % of clinically definite cases , with a 90 % detection rate overall . the log igg-index was positive in only 67 % of clinically definite cases , with an overall 59 % detection rate . thus with the exceptions noted above , local synthesis of igg as defined by isoelectric focusing is confined to demyelinating , inflammatory , infectious and postinfectious disorders . our results compare very favourably with the published sensitivities of magnetic resonance imaging in the detection of abnormalities in multiple sclerosis , and better than those for evoked potentials . where both these investigations are readily available isoelectric focusing provides a useful adjunct . for the majority of physicians and neurologists who do not have ready access to magnetic resonance imaging , isoelectric focusing is an excellent alternative . we would also recommend that it become the standard for the measurement of igg abnormalities in the cerebrospinal fluid and that the use of quantitative data be abandoned for routine purposes . 
congenital myasthenia associated with facial malformations in iraqi and iranian jews . a new genetic syndrome . fourteen jewish patients from 10 families of either iraqi or iranian origin with congenital myasthenia had associated facial malformations which included an elongated face , mandibular prognathism with class iii malocclusion and a high-arched palate . other common features were muscle weakness restricted predominantly to ptosis , weakness of facial and masticatory muscles , and fatigable speech ; mild and nonprogressive course ; response to cholinesterase inhibitors ; absence of antibodies to acetylcholine receptor ; decremental response on repetitive stimulation at 3 hz but no repetitive compound muscle action potential in response to a single nerve stimulus . this newly recognized form of congenital myasthenia with distinctive ethnic clustering and associated facial malformations is transmitted as an autosomal recessive disorder . the facial abnormalities may be secondary to the neuromuscular defect or may be primary and unrelated . further studies are needed to elucidate the defect in neuromuscular transmission responsible for the pathogenesis of this syndrome . 
myelopathy associated with human t cell lymphotropic virus type i ( htlv-i ) in natal , south africa . a clinical and investigative study in 24 patients . unexplained spastic myelopathy in black ( zulu ) patients , similar to that seen in the tropics , has previously been described from natal , south africa . following reports linking the human t cell lymphotropic virus type i ( htlv-i ) to spastic myelopathy , we undertook a prospective and retrospective search for htlv-i antibodies in 36 patients who were labelled as having unexplained myelopathy ; 24 ( 66 % ) were positive and htlv-i was isolated from 4 out of the 6 patients whose peripheral blood lymphocytes were cultured . eighteen ( 75 % ) gave a short history ( less than 6 months ) . there was a female preponderance ( 71 % ) , spinothalamic dysfunction was common ( 55 % ) and as many as half were severely disabled ( 50 % wheelchair bound ) . routine laboratory studies showed no specific trends apart from hypergammaglobulinaemia and csf pleocytosis ( greater than 5 cells/microliter in 66 % of patients ) . the total csf protein was raised ( greater than 0.4 g/l ) in 45 % of patients . the igg index was greater than 0.7 in 15 of 19 patients . conventional myelography did not show any specific abnormalities . computer assisted myelography was undertaken in 22 patients ; 3 showed arachnoiditis and 2 spinal cord atrophy . periventricular lucencies were seen in 1 of 10 patients who had computed tomography of the head . nerve conduction studies demonstrated abnormalities in 46 % of the patients indicating that subclinical peripheral nerve dysfunction was common . visual evoked responses were abnormal in only 1 patient but brainstem auditory evoked response studies showed some abnormality in 42 % of the patients . the finding of htlv-i antibodies in a significant number , and the isolation of htlv-i from the blood in 6 of our black patients with noncompressive myelopathy , represents a substantial clinical advance . future studies should define more clearly the role of the virus in this disorder . 
heterogeneity in progressive aphasia due to focal cortical atrophy . a clinical and pet study . six patients with a slowly progressive aphasic disorder due to degenerative cortical disease are reported . the length of history varied from 18 months to 6 years . in 5 patients , there was a naming deficit , associated in 4 of these with some abnormalities in comprehension . one patient had a progressive history of reduced speech output , which was associated with an orofacial dyspraxia . all patients were studied neuropsychologically , and in addition regional cerebral metabolism was measured using position emission tomography . a localized left hemisphere deficit was found in all patients except 1 , who had the longest history and the most profound clinical deficit , and who also had right hemisphere hypometabolism . the major brunt of the deficit was in the anterior portion of the left temporal lobe in all but 1 case , the patient with poor speech output who had a more severe left posterior frontal deficit . these findings suggest that in progressive aphasia due to focal cortical atrophy there is heterogeneity in the clinical presentation and anatomical site of the deficit , with possible implications for the underlying aetiology . 
developmental dysmnesia in a poor reader . a 22-yr-old subject with moderate developmental dyslexia experienced poor memory from an early age . in spite of normal intelligence he had great difficulty in learning historical and geographical names , mathematical formulae , poems and songs , and verbal series such as the letters of the alphabet and the months of the year . his recognition of familiar faces was also faulty at times . a battery of memory tests confirmed a moderate deficit of verbal as well as visual memory , whereas spatial memory was preserved . other cognitive functions were intact , except for a mild reading disability . no evidence of brain pathology was provided by his history , neurological examination and ct scanning . 
familial paroxysmal kinesigenic ataxia and continuous myokymia . a large family with paroxysmal ataxia and continuous myokymic discharges is described . the disorder is of autosomal dominant inheritance . during attacks coordination of movements and balance are disturbed ; often a postural tremor of the head and the hands and fine twitching in some of the facial and hand muscles are present . the attacks usually last a few minutes and may occur several times per day . they first appear in childhood and tend to abate after early adulthood . the attacks are frequently precipitated by kinesigenic stimuli similar to those in paroxysmal kinesigenic choreoathetosis . their occurrence can be reduced or prevented by carbonic anhydrase inhibitors . between attacks a slight postural tremor and ataxia was found in a few of the elderly affected members . fine rippling myokymia was obvious in a few and could be detected on close inspection in about half of the adults . electromyography ( emg ) showed myokymic discharges in all affected members . the characteristics and reactivity of this myokymic activity suggest multiple impulse generation in the peripheral nerves . 
the comportmental learning disabilities of early frontal lobe damage . two adult patients are described who suffered bilateral prefrontal damage early in life and who subsequently came to psychiatric attention because of severely aberrant behaviour . a battery of developmental psychology paradigms ( not previously used to assess neurologically impaired individuals ) showed that social and moral development of these 2 patients was arrested at an immature stage . in comparison with other types of brain damage which disrupt cognitive development , frontal damage acquired early in life appears to provide the neurological substrate for a special type of learning disability in the realms of insight , foresight , social judgement , empathy , and complex reasoning . 
cerebral blood flow in progressive aphasia without dementia . case report , using 133xenon inhalation , technetium 99m hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime and single photon emission computerized tomography . we report a case of progressive aphasia without clinical signs of intellectual or behavioral impairment , satisfying mesulam 's clinical criteria of primary progressive aphasia , as 4 yrs of extensive psychometric testing and radiological imaging , comprising ct and mri , failed to detect evidence of relevant involvement outside the left perisylvian regions . cranial ct was normal but mri showed multiple bilateral lesions in the deep white matter . cerebral blood flow ( cbf ) studies by single photon emission computerized tomography , however , showed an initial frontotemporal focus of hypoperfusion that progressively extended to include most of the ipsilateral hemisphere and the contralateral frontal lobe . this suggests that cbf imaging may yet be the most sensitive technique in revealing subclinical injury in the degenerative brain diseases of focal onset . 
the anatomical basis of the caecocentral scotoma . new observations and a review . it is shown that the ' papillomacular bundle ' of optic nerve fibres , although a concept discussed frequently in the clinical literature , lacks a clear anatomical definition . it is suggested that the explanation for this is that the ' bundle ' was originally described in autopsy studies of toxic amblyopia , not normal anatomy . the optic nerve fibre projection and vascular architecture of the caecocentral region of the retina is described . these anatomical features are discussed in relation to a number of possible anatomical explanations for the fact that a caecocentral scotoma is the characteristic field defect found in toxic amblyopia . we have been unable to identify a distinct anatomical feature which might explain this vulnerability but suggest that the problem has not as yet been clearly addressed by anatomists . 
the distribution of muscle weakness in upper motoneuron lesions affecting the lower limb . to determine the distribution of weakness in the lower limb after upper motoneuron lesions the strength of 8 muscle groups was measured . four groups of patients were studied : 22 control subjects , 16 patients with unilateral leg paresis , 4 patients with severe unilateral paralysis and 5 patients with paraparesis . in the testing posture ( seated ) , patients with cerebral upper motoneuron lesions showed no selective loss of power in flexors or extensors on the contralateral side . gravitational torques were included in the measurements . however , proximal muscles ( acting at hip and knee ) were significantly less severely affected than more distal muscles ( acting at ankle and hallux ) . at any particular joint , physiological flexors and extensors were affected equally in both the hemiparetic and paraparetic subjects . as in the upper limb ( colebatch and gandevia , 1989 ) , the strength of muscles on the clinically unaffected side was reduced compared with control subjects , although no muscle groups were especially affected . 
innervation territories for touch and pain afferents of single fascicles of the human ulnar nerve . mapping through intraneural microrecording and microstimulation . the peripheral distribution of the fibre content of individual ulnar nerve fascicles supplying skin and muscles of the hand in human volunteers was indirectly mapped by tracing the fields of projected sensation evoked by intraneural electrical microstimulation ( inms ) and by tracing receptive fields delineated through intraneural recording of afferent impulse activity elicited by natural stimulation of end organs . moderate intensity suprathreshold inms , delivered in cutaneous fascicles , induced nonpainful sensations projecting to stereotyped and coherent areas of skin , the fascicular projected fields ( fpfs ) . fascicular receptive fields ( frfs ) were mapped during microneurographic recording by determining the area of skin which , when activated by light tactile stimuli , elicited afferent neural discharges recorded intraneurally . it was found that at a given electrode position in a skin nerve fascicle , moderate intensity inms induced nonpainful sensations projecting to a cutaneous field ( fpf ) that coincides with the frf , while high intensity inms induced painful sensations projecting within the cutaneous field of nonpainful sensations . pain induced by inms in muscle nerve fascicles was projected to the muscles innervated by that fascicle and , in most instances , to areas beyond the muscular receptive field . the study demonstrates that individual ulnar nerve fascicles , at wrist levels , subserve well-defined cutaneous territories in the hand , and that the area of skin covered by the sum of all ulnar fascicular receptive or projected fields matches the maximal possible cutaneous distribution of the ulnar nerve . insights of practical relevance regarding clinical expression of fascicular nerve injuries are also brought up by this study . 
volume conduction of the parietal n20 potential to the prerolandic frontal area . somatosensory evoked potentials were recorded from the frontal and parietal areas in patients with various lesions in the central nervous system on stimulation of the median nerve . five representative cases who showed a selective loss of the positive potential from the frontal area are reported . in each case , the parietal n20 potential was relatively well preserved , and the midposition between the frontal and central areas ( fc area ) showed a negative potential following p14 . the peak of this negative potential was synchronous with that of the parietal n20 potential . this negativity on the fc area is considered to be a volume conducted potential from the parietal n20 to the prerolandic frontal area . such an anterior volume conduction of the parietal n20 would not be explained by the concept of a tangentially oriented dipole generated in the posterior bank of the central sulcus . instead , for the generator of the parietal n20 potential , a radically oriented dipole generated mainly in the parietal area is postulated . 
selective spatial attention in patients with visual extinction . the present study was designed to verify the attentional performance of patients with parietal lesions in the experimental condition in which they had to pay attention to 3 spatial positions located on the left , on the right and directly above the fixation stimulus ( experiment 1 ) and to only 1 of the 3 spatial positions at a time ( experiment 2 ) . twelve patients ( 6 subjects with right parietal lesions and 6 subjects without neurological deficits ) participated in the experiment . the results of experiment 1 showed that in patients with right parietal lesions the speed and accuracy of response to horizontally aligned stimuli increased gradually from right to left , whereas the control group showed only the effect due to the different retinal eccentricities of the 3 stimuli , that is , responses to central stimuli were faster and more accurate than responses to left and right stimuli . the results of experiment 2 showed that both the neurological and control groups were faster to respond to central than to left and right stimuli , and that the neurological group was faster to respond to right than left stimuli , whereas no difference in rts between two visual fields was obtained in the control group . furthermore , when the patients had to respond to 3 spatial locations aligned horizontally ( experiment 1 ) , the speed and accuracy of response to the right stimulus were the same as when they had to focus attention on it ( experiment 2 ) . these results showed that the focus of attention in patients with visual extinction is on the rightmost stimulus and that the increased attention to the right is accompanied by a decreased attention to the left . 
osseointegration of titanium implants in total hip arthroplasty . osseointegration is defined as direct contact on the light microscopic level between living bone tissue and the implant . using titanium screw dental implants in the jaw , a lasting interface under loaded conditions extending over a 20-year follow-up period has been demonstrated . this demonstration brings up the question whether a similar interface can be achieved in total hip arthroplasty ( tha ) between living bone and a titanium alloy implant under necessitated conditions of immediate loading . two series of cases are reported . the first series used a femoral , press-fit , titanium alloy component and the second used a press-fit titanium acetabular component and redesigned femoral , press-fit , titanium alloy component . both demonstrated a high percentage of good to excellent results . roentgenograms showed that the geometrical changes in the redesigned femoral component gave early indications of a better fixation with loading in valgus , less subsidence , and less evidence of distal stress transfer . a two-and-one-half-year postoperative anatomic specimen study confirmed osseointegration to the press-fit titanium alloy femoral component . multiple areas of contact between bone and metal without fibrous interposition were seen . examination by electron microscopy supported the light microscopic findings . these findings support further use of smooth , press-fit titanium components in thas without the need for porous coating , mesh , or other surface modifications . 
intraoperative dexamethasone irrigation in lumbar microdiskectomy . in 45 lumbar hemilaminectomy/microdiskectomy patients , a control group of 23 patients had the standard operative procedure . the remaining 22 patients were treated with intraoperative irrigation of long-acting dexamethasone before incision closure . age , weight , gender ratio , mean postoperative hospital stay , mean in-hospital narcotics usage , and incidence of perioperative complications among the two groups were compared . age and gender ratios were comparable , although the control group was significantly heavier in body weight than the steroid-irrigated group . the steroid-irrigated group had a significant reduction in hospitalization and a marked reduction in narcotics usage compared with the control group . postoperative fever occurred in one patient in the steroid group . the control group had three postoperative complications . these preliminary observations suggest that dexamethasone irrigation during lumbar diskectomy is a safe and effective adjunct to surgical management . 
continuous removal of middle molecules by hemofiltration in patients with acute liver failure . in patients with acute liver failure and hepatic coma , an increase in the abnormal " middle molecules " seen on the chromatograms of the sera is suspected of playing an etiologic role in the coma . a pilot study of continuous hemofiltration using a high-performance membrane was conducted in 16 such patients in an attempt to decrease the serum levels of the middle molecules . the procedure was used alternately with plasma exchange . high-performance liquid chromatography showed a notable removal of the substances in the filtrates and a sequential removal from the serum by hemofiltration . eight ( 50 % ) of the 16 patients had amelioration in level of consciousness and were weaned successfully from hemofiltration . although only three of the 16 patients survived the acute illness , 13 others lived an average of 15 days and five patients survived greater than 3 wk . while the continuous removal of middle molecules from the serum may not reverse liver failure , this procedure used in conjunction with plasma exchange may provide a means of life support , e.g. , for patients awaiting a liver transplant . 
a limited diagnostic investigation for obstructive sleep apnea syndrome . oximetry and static charge sensitive bed . a simplified sleep apnea investigation consisting of combined oximetry and respiration movement monitoring was compared with conventional polysomnography . these two types of recordings were performed simultaneously during one night in 77 patients with suspected obstructive sleep apnea syndrome ( osas ) . a static charge sensitive bed ( scsb ) was used in the simplified recording because it provides a comfortable and reliable means of recording respiration movements . periods of obstructive apneas gave a diamond-shaped periodic respiration movement pattern in the scsb , usually accompanied by repetitive oxygen desaturations . the average number of desaturations greater than or equal to 4 percent per sleeping hour was termed the oxygen desaturation index ( odi ) and compared with the apnea index ( ai ) . in the whole population they were well correlated ( p less than 0.0001 , r2 = 0.41 ) , but in individual cases there were considerable discrepancies . patients with periodic respiration movements less than 18 percent of total sleeping time and odi less than 2 never had ai greater than or equal to 5 , whereas patients with periodic respiration greater than 45 percent and odi greater than 6 always had ai greater than or equal to 5 . fifty-one of the 77 patients fulfilled these criteria . a bradycardia response to apneas was absent in 29 percent of patients with ai greater than or equal to 5 . a combination of respiration movement and oximetry recording thus seems to give sufficient information to confirm or negate a diagnosis of osas in a majority of patients with clinical symptoms . in borderline patients , further investigations should be performed . 
systemic hypertension in sleep apnea syndrome . relationship with sleep architecture and breathing abnormalities . to examine the possible relationship between systemic ht and sas we compared 21 hypertensive ( ht + ) and 29 normotensive ( ht - ) patients for morphologic characteristics , sleep disturbances and respiratory events monitored during a full night polysomnography . there was no significant difference between ht + and ht - patients with respect to age , weight , bmi , sleep stage distribution and disorganization , apnea-hypopnea index ( number of episodes per hour of sleep ) and duration ( minutes per hour of sleep ) nor o2 saturation indices : mean nocturnal and minimum o2 saturation . we conclude therefore that ht in sas patients is not directly related to morphologic characteristics , sleep disturbances and breathing abnormalities . 
clinical dysautonomia in patients with bronchial asthma . study with seven autonomic function tests . fifty asthmatic patients and 20 healthy control subjects , carefully age - and sex-matched , were subjected to seven standardized tests to evaluate their autonomic status . due care was taken to remove factors which could interfere with results . of the tests concerned with the parasympathetic system , the intravenous atropine test ( p greater than 0.10 ) and heart rate response to standing ( p greater than 0.01 ) which measured the basal parasympathetic tone , did not show a significant difference . tests requiring stimulation of the parasympathetic system , ie , deep breathing test ( p less than 0.001 ) , valsalva maneuver ( p less than 0.001 ) , and carotid sinus massage ( p less than 0.001 ) showed significantly heightened response . postural fall of blood pressure ( p greater than 0.10 ) and sustained hand grip test ( p greater than 0.10 ) , chiefly concerned with the sympathetic system , did not show a significant difference . of the 50 asthmatic patients , nine were atopic and 41 nonatopic . when the results were compared in the two groups separately , we found that there was no alteration in the measurements except the intravenous atropine test which showed heightened response with atopic subjects ( p less than 0.05 ) . these results suggest that hyperresponsiveness of the parasympathetic system is an important factor in producing bronchial spasm in asthmatic patients , and atopic and nonatopic subjects do not differ much in their autonomic status . 
maxillofacial surgery and nasal cpap . a comparison of treatment for obstructive sleep apnea syndrome nasal continuous positive airway pressure ( cpap ) is the primary therapy for obstructive sleep apnea syndrome ( osas ) . recent reports have indicated , however , that there is a small but significant number of failures related to patient compliance . primary surgical treatment , which has been uvulopalatopharyngoplasty ( uppp ) , has declined because of poor results . a reviewed of uppp failures has shown that while uppp eliminated palatal obstruction , it failed to eliminate base of tongue obstruction . maxillofacial surgery has been reported as treatment of osas by correcting base of tongue obstruction . thirty patients with severe osas were evaluated to compare nasal cpap and maxillofacial surgery . the goal was to determine if our surgical protocol was as effective as nasal cpap . all patients initially underwent baseline diagnostic polysomnography to document osas . a nasal cpap study was performed to determine the appropriate positive end-expiratory pressure . the patients in this study were using nasal cpap , but they found it unacceptable as long-term treatment and elected surgery . maxillofacial surgery consisted of maxillary , mandibular , and hyoid advancement . polysomnography was performed six months following surgery and compared with the night 2 cpap results . the parameters included in the investigation were the respiratory disturbance index ( rdi ) , lowest sao2 , number of sao2 falls below 90 percent , total sleep time ( tst ) , rem sleep percent , stage 3-4 sleep percent , and wake after sleep onset . the mean rdi before treatment was 72.0 ( sd 25.7 ) . after completing therapy , the rdi from surgery and cpap was 8.8 ( sd 6.0 ) and 8.6 ( sd 4.1 ) , respectively . the mean low sao2 prior to treatment was 61.0 ( sd 13.5 ) , and the cpap results and postsurgical results were 86.2 ( sd 5.5 ) and 86.1 ( sd 4.2 ) , respectively . an analysis of variance was used to examine the results , and there was no statistical difference between nasal cpap and surgery for all respiratory variables . 
lack of change in neurochemical markers during the postepileptic phase of intrahippocampal tetanus toxin syndrome in rats . the chronic epileptic syndrome induced by injecting tetanus toxin into rat hippocampus causes functional changes that essentially are permanent , outlasting the period of active seizures by at least 1 year . these long-term changes have been characterized by an impaired performance on a range of behavioral tasks , which in turn have been associated with a physiologic depression of hippocampal evoked responses but not with any discernible histopathology . in the present study , we examined the hippocampi of rats in the postseizure phase of the tetanus toxin model and observed no significant changes in the concentration of neurochemical markers for six neurotransmitters . therefore , the long-term reduction in hippocampal excitability can not be attributed to any major loss of afferents or hippocampal neurons using aspartate , acetylcholine , gamma-aminobutyric acid ( gaba ) , glutamate , norepinephrine ( ne ) , or serotonin as their transmitters . 
some endorphin derivatives and hydrocortisone prevent eeg limbic seizures induced by corticotropin-releasing factor in rabbits . corticotropin-releasing factor ( crf ) injected into the cerebral ventricles of small mammals induces eeg limbic seizures , behavioral excitability , stereotyped behavior , and tardive enhancement of hippocampal theta voltage and frequency . because we addressed this phenomenon when we explained the pathogenesis of infantile spasms in children , we wished to study the interference exerted by some gamma-endorphin fragments on eeg epileptiform and behavioral symptoms induced by crf in the rabbit . animals were implanted intracerebroventricularly ( i.c.v. ) with semichronic cortical and hippocampal electrodes , together with a cannula into the left lateral ventricle . when some gamma-endorphin derivatives ( dt gamma e , de gamma e ) were injected intravenously ( i.v. ) for 4 days ( or hydrocortisone once ) , they prevented the eeg ictal seizures induced in the hippocampus of rabbits by crf injected i.c.v. hydrocortisone and de gamma e also prevented the appearance of scattered spiking and partially prevented tardive enhancement of theta voltage in the hippocampal eeg . finally , de gamma e also prevented stereotyped behavior and excitability induced by crf . these results confirm the regulatory role exerted by crf in limbic structure excitability and suggest that the above peptides may be involved in a regulatory feedback mechanism of crf metabolism or activity . the possibility that these peptides may also have interesting antiepileptogenic properties should be considered . 
neonatal monosodium glutamate abolishes corticotropin-releasing factor-induced epileptogenic activity in rats . intracerebroventricular ( i.c.v. ) injection of rat corticotropin-releasing factor ( rcrf ) at doses of 5-20 micrograms in rats induces epileptogenic activity characterized by pacemaker-like spikes localized in the hippocampal leads . such an effect was still present in rats neonatally treated with saline but was absent in those neonatally treated with monosodium glutamate ( msg ) , a treatment that caused marked changes in the concentration of several brain neurotransmitters and neuropeptides in hypothalamic nuclei where crf is highly concentrated and is believed to induce endocrinologic and behavioral effects . the present results suggest the rcrf-induced spiking activity is mediated by activation of neuronal pathways sensitive to msg neurotoxic effect . 
triiodothyronine and brain excitability . we investigated mechanisms involved in thyroid hormone action on brain excitability . the effect of acute exposure of triiodothyronine ( t3 ) to rat hippocampal slices in vitro was studied . no significant changes could be detected in prevolley , field excitatory postsynaptic potentials ( fepsp ) and population spike amplitude , while there was a minor , nonsignificant trend toward shortening of the population spike latency time . t3 had no effect on penicillin-induced epileptiform activity . there was , however , an active accumulation of radioactively labeled t3 in the slices . a rat cervaux-isole preparation was used to determine focal seizure thresholds in the visual cortex , and no acute ( 2-4 h ) effects were demonstrated . no significant acute effects of t3 on brain excitability in the hippocampus and visual cortex was observed , despite an active accumulation of t3 . thus , the effect of t3 on brain excitability most likely is due to delayed effects . 
epidemiology of epilepsy in guaymi indians from bocas del toro province , republic of panama . this cross-sectional study was conducted to describe the epidemiology of epilepsy in guaymi indians residing in changuinola , a small town on panama 's caribbean coast near costa rica . we randomly selected households and attempted to enroll all residents aged less than or equal to 1 year ; 337 eligible subjects agreed to participate ( 93 % response rate ) . we administered a standard neurologic disease screening examination to all subjects and , if any abnormality was found , we administered a standard neurologic evaluation . we detected 19 cases of active epilepsy ; the mean age at onset was 12 years , and generalized tonic-clonic seizures were the most common diagnosis ( 10 of 19 , 53 % ) . the prevalence of active epilepsy among caribbean coastal guaymi ( 57/1000 ) is considerably greater than that in lower class panama city populations ( 22/1000 ) or in other parts of the world . to identify risk factors for epilepsy , we collected epidemiologic data and serum ( for cysticercus antibody ) from subjects with active epilepsy and from 44 age/sex-matched controls . significantly more cases ( 47 % ) than controls ( 6 % ) had other family members with epilepsy ( relative risk , rr = 14 ) ; 44 % of cases and 13 % of controls reported a history of febrile seizures during childhood ( rr = 6 ) . 
electrocorticographic confirmation of focal positron emission tomographic abnormalities in children with intractable epilepsy . the relationship between focal disturbances of glucose utilization demonstrated by positron emission tomography ( pet ) and electrophysiologic abnormalities defined by intraoperative electrocorticography ( ecog ) was studied in eight children ( aged 13 months to 12 years ) who underwent cortical resection because of intractable seizures . none of the children had pure temporal lobe epilepsy . computed tomography ( ct ) and/or magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) were normal in four of the eight children . the scalp electroencephalogram ( eeg ) showed lateralized interictal epileptiform abnormalities in all eight and lateralized ictal onset in five of eight . in seven children , interictal pet showed focal hypometabolism ; the eighth child had focal , ictal hypermetabolism . ecog at the time of surgery showed epileptiform spiking , slowing , and/or suppression of normal background activity that in every case corresponded to the focus on pet scan . the ecog findings support the notion that in children with epilepsy focal metabolic abnormalities on pet correspond to electrophysiologically abnormal areas of cortex , which are presumably also the epileptogenic regions . such areas can appear normal on anatomic imaging studies ( ct and mri ) . when ictal scalp eeg data are ambiguous or contradictory , pet provides a less invasive means than chronic grid or depth electrode recording for evaluating whether a localized epileptogenic area exists . 
lateralized effects of subclinical epileptiform eeg discharges on scholastic performance in children . the interaction between lateralization of subclinical epileptiform discharges and cognitive tasks was investigated in 21 children ( 12 girls and 9 boys , mean age 10.6 years ) . seventeen had a diagnosis of epilepsy ( partial or secondarily generalized ) . testing was by reading , arithmetic , and intelligence subtests during continuous telemetric eeg and video monitoring . children with left-sided discharges had significantly lower reading performance than children with right-sided discharges . during reading , epileptiform discharges occurred relatively less frequently and with a shorter total duration over the left hemisphere than the right . this supports the view that cognitive tasks suppress epileptiform discharges when they activate a region of the brain within the epileptogenic zone . discharges from other epileptogenic zones not directly activated by the tasks are increased , however . 
topographic comparative study of magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography in 34 children with tuberous sclerosis . a series of 34 children with confirmed tuberous sclerosis ( ts ) were studied prospectively by both eeg and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) at ages ranging from 5 months to 18 years . size and topography of the cortical tubers were analyzed on axial and coronal views , in t2 sequences , and the large tubers greater than 10 mm were studied . in addition , eeg follow-up data were reviewed retrospectively . twenty-six patients ( 76 % ) had both mri large cortical tubers and eeg foci , 3 had normal eeg , 2 had normal mri , and the remaining 3 had only small tubers . the number of large tubers was significantly related to eeg foci . a topographic mri/eeg correspondence was observed for at least one tuber in 25 of the 26 patients , and correspondence was complete in 10 patients . large cortical tubers without corresponding eeg foci were observed in 11 patients ; these tubers mainly involved the frontal regions and were found before the patients were 2 years old . eeg foci without corresponding tubers were observed in 4 patients . in addition , secondary bilateral synchrony was preferentially observed in patients with frontal lesions and after the age of 2 years . these data confirm that the cortical tubers are epileptogenic and that their expression may be influenced by regional cortical maturation . 
landau-kleffner syndrome : a clinical and eeg study of five cases . in five children with normal initial psychomotor development , a landau-kleffner syndrome appeared at age 3-7 years . no neuroanatomic lesions were noted . aphasia and hyperkinesia were isolated in three patients and associated with global regression of higher cortical functions in one patient . massive intellectual deterioration and psychotic behavior were associated with transient aphasia in one patient . the epilepsy ( focal motor and generalized tonic-clonic seizures , subclinical eeg focal seizures during sleep , and atypical absences ) always regressed spontaneously or with antiepileptic drug ( aed ) treatment . the eeg in waking patients showed focal and generalized spike-wave discharges on a normal background rhythm . discharge topography and pattern changed frequently . during sleep , discharges always increased . at some time during syndrome development , all patients had bilateral spike-waves for greater than 85 % of the sleep period , while at other times the discharges were discontinuous or continuous but focal or unilaterally hemispheric . discharge topography and abundance changed from night to night . the abnormal eeg and the impaired higher functions developed and regressed together , but not with strict temporal correlation . our own experience suggests that the landau-kleffner syndrome and epilepsy with continuous spike-wave activity in slow-wave sleep can not be clearly differentiated . they may be different points on the spectrum of a single syndrome . 
landau-kleffner syndrome : a pharmacologic study of five cases . five children with landau-kleffner syndrome ( epilepsy , acquired aphasia , and continuous spike-wave discharges during sleep ) , were treated with antiepileptic drugs ( aeds ) , sleep-modifying drugs , and corticosteroids . the pharmacologic profiles differed from those observed in focal epilepsies , resembling instead those of certain generalized epilepsies , such as west or lennox-gastaut syndromes . phenobarbital ( pb ) , carbamazepine ( cbz ) , and phenytoin ( pht ) were ineffective or worsened the eeg and neuropsychological symptoms , whereas valproate ( vpa ) , ethosuximide ( esm ) , and benzodiazepines were partially or transiently efficacious . dextroamphetamine produced a dramatic but transient improvement in waking and sleep eeg in one of two children ; aphasia did not change . corticosteroid treatment resulted in improved speech , suppression of seizures , and normalization of the eeg in three of three children . our own experience and data from the literature suggest that corticosteroids should be given in high doses as soon as the diagnosis is firmly established and should be continued in maintenance dose for several months or years to avoid escape . early diagnosis , before mutism or global deterioration develops , appears to be essential for effective therapy with minimal neuropsychological sequelae . 
cerebral glucose utilization during sleep in landau-kleffner syndrome : a pet study . three right-handed male children ( aged 5 , 6 , and 11 years ) with signs , symptoms and/or history of the syndrome of acquired aphasia-epilepsy ( landau-kleffner syndrome ) were studied during drug-induced , electroencephalographically ( eeg ) - monitored sleep by positron-emission tomography ( pet ) and the [ 18f ] fluorodeoxyglucose ( fdg ) method . our data demonstrate that in landau-kleffner syndrome , cerebral glucose utilization is not normal during sleep . the metabolic pattern varied between the children but the metabolic disturbances always predominated over the temporal lobes . they were right-sided , left-sided , or bilateral . in the two first patients , eeg recordings showed continuous spike-and-wave discharges during sleep and a right-greater-than-left asymmetry was observed in temporal areas . in patient 1 , the asymmetry was associated with a relative increase of glucose utilization of the right posterior temporal region . in patient 2 , the glucose utilization was relatively decreased in the left anterotemporal and left perisylvian regions . in patient 3 , the sleep eeg showed no discharge and no significant asymmetry was observed ; however , glucose utilization of both temporal lobes was decreased . lower metabolic rates in subcortical structures than in cortex were also noted in the three children . this metabolic pattern may be related to the maturation of the central nervous system ( cns ) . 
gastrointestinal motor dysfunction in acquired selective cholinergic dysautonomia associated with infectious mononucleosis . this report documents the disturbance in gastrointestinal motor function in a patient with selective cholinergic dysautonomia that occurred following acute infectious mononucleosis . apart from the gut , other organs affected included the pupils , sweat glands , lacrimal and salivary glands , and urinary bladder . autonomic function tests showed the preservation of sympathetic adrenergic functions in contrast to the generalized involvement of postganglionic parasympathetic and sympathetic cholinergic nerves , including denervation hypersensitivity of the pupil and urinary bladder to exogenous cholinergic agonists . cardiac and abdominal vagal responses were abnormal . colon myenteric plexus ganglion cells were normal by morphological and immunohistochemical studies , suggesting that the selective cholinergic dysautonomia was the most likely pathophysiologic process responsible for the observed motility disorder . this study documents the occurrence of selective cholinergic dysautonomia following a viral illness , the importance of the extrinsic neural control on the motor function of the gastrointestinal tract , and the usefulness of combined motility and autonomic function testing in the evaluation of patients with symptoms suggestive of gut dysmotility . 
silent cerebrovascular disease in the elderly . correlation with ambulatory pressure . does the average daily blood pressure correlate with hypertensive cerebrovascular disease better than the casual pressure , as has been reported in other target organ involvement ? we investigated the associations of two abnormal findings on brain magnetic resonance imaging suggestive of a vascular etiology , low intense foci ( lacunae ) , and periventricular hyperintense lesions on t1 - and t2-weighted images , with both office and average daily blood pressure values in a population of 73 healthy normotensive and hypertensive elderly individuals ( 70 + / - 6 years old ) . lacunae were detected in 34 subjects ( 47 % ) ; the number per subject ranged from 0 to 19 and was significantly correlated with advancing age . furthermore , these changes were supposedly related to the average of noninvasive ambulatory ( 24-hour and during awake and asleep periods ) pressure recordings but not to office pressures . the grade of periventricular hyperintensity was also significantly associated with advancing age and the average of ambulatory systolic pressure recordings , particularly during sleep , but not with office blood pressure . in comparisons of normotensive , " office hypertensive , " and hypertensive subgroups , abnormalities on magnetic resonance imaging were appropriate to the level of the 24-hour blood pressure measurements but not to that of clinic pressure . in hypertensive patients , the presence of electrocardiographic evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy was also associated with greater abnormalities on magnetic resonance imaging . we conclude that ambulatory blood pressure monitoring is superior to casual pressure measurements in predicting latent cerebrovascular disease , which is unexpectedly common in apparently healthy elderly subjects . 
effect of age on the efficacy of blood pressure treatment strategies . to study whether the proportion of excess cardiovascular events attributable to various levels of systolic blood pressure varies with age , we calculated the population-attributable risk of all-cause mortality , fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events ( stroke , coronary heart disease , angina , congestive heart failure , and peripheral vascular disease ) , and stroke incidence due to systolic blood pressure in men and women 45 years of age or older in the united states during 1980 . our estimates are based on us census counts , blood pressure prevalence distributions from the second national health and nutrition examination survey , and the annual risk of cardiovascular complications during 18 years of follow-up in the framingham cohort . we then determined the impact of age on the relative efficacy of mass treatment and case-finding strategies in preventing systolic blood pressure-related events . at 45-54 years of age , only 30-40 % of systolic blood pressure-related excess events occur in hypertensive individuals ( systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 160 mm hg ) . with increasing age , however , the percentage of systolic blood pressure-related events that occur in hypertensive individuals rose substantially ; in the older age group ( greater than or equal to 75 years ) , 65-70 % of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular disease events occur in hypertensive persons . the pattern is similar for men and women . the potential impact of a mass treatment strategy designed to shift the distribution of blood pressure downward by a small amount is greater in younger than in older groups , whereas an opposite trend is seen for a high-risk , hypertensive case-finding and treatment approach . 
glucocorticoid-induced muscle atrophy prevention by exercise in fast-twitch fibers . exercise has been shown to be effective in preventing glucocorticoid-induced atrophy in muscles containing high proportions of type ii or fast-twitch fibers . this investigation was undertaken to further evaluate this response in type iia and iib fibers , determined by histochemical staining for myofibrillar adenosinetriphosphatase with alkaline and acid preincubation . steroid [ cortisol acetate ( ca ) , 100 mg/kg body wt ] and exercise ( running 90 min/day , 29 m/min ) treatments were initiated simultaneously for 11 consecutive days in female rats . fiber distribution and area measurements were performed in a deep and superficial region of plantaris muscle . the exercise regimen spared approximately 40 % of the ca-induced plantaris muscle atrophy . in the deep region , the fiber population , which contained approximately 13 % type i ( slow-twitch ) , 24 % type iia , and 63 % iib fibers , was not affected by either treatment . in the superficial section , which consisted solely of type ii fibers , the proportion of type iia fibers was higher ( 27 vs. 9 % , p less than 0.01 ) in the steroid - than in the vehicle-treated groups . within each region , type iia fibers were less susceptible to atrophy than type iib fibers , and within each fiber type , the deep region had less atrophy than the superficial region . type i fibers were unchanged by steroid treatment . for type iia fibers , exercise prevented 100 % of the atrophy in the deep region and 50 % in the superficial region . for type iib fibers , the activity spared 67 and 40 % of the atrophy in these same regions , respectively . these results show that glucocorticoids are capable of changing the myosin phenotype . 
failed acromioplasty for impingement syndrome . we evaluated 67 shoulders in 65 patients who had pain and dysfunction for more than two years after an initial acromioplasty for impingement syndrome without a rotator cuff tear . in addition to a thorough history , physical examination , local anaesthesia injection and any other necessary investigations all patients had arthroscopic evaluation of the shoulder . in 27 shoulders there had been diagnostic errors , and in 28 operative errors ; only in 12 had the diagnosis and the operative procedure both been correct . subsequent operative intervention in patients not receiving worker 's compensation benefit had a 75 % success rate , whereas in those receiving such benefits the success rate was only 46 % . 
effect of the topical anesthetic emla on the efficacy of pulsed dye laser treatment of port-wine stains . emla cream ( eutectic mixture of local anesthetics ) is a new topical anesthetic composed of 25 mg lidocaine and 25 mg prilocaine in an oil-in-water emulsion cream . it has been found to be very effective for local anesthesia prior to venepuncture , minor surgical procedures , and pulsed dye laser ( pdl ) therapy for port-wine stains ( pws ) in children . however , since emla may cause vasoconstriction of cutaneous vessels , we tried to determine whether pretreatment with emla decreases the efficacy of subsequent pdl treatment . we report eight patients between the ages of 4 and 32 years with pws who received two test site treatments prior to pdl treatment . one site was pretreated with emla cream under occlusion for 60 minutes and then left unoccluded for 15 minutes prior to pdl test treatment . the other site , in the same area of the pws and patient 's body , was not pretreated with emla . the test sites were compared 6-8 weeks later to determine whether emla decreased the degree of lightening of the pws compared to the non-emla-treated site . we conclude that emla is an effective topical anesthetic for pdl treatment of pws and does not adversely affect the efficacy of the treatment . 
disturbance in daily sleep/wake patterns in patients with cognitive impairment and decreased daily activity . the sleep/wake patterns of 121 chronically ill , mentally and physically handicapped patients were visually monitored hourly for 14 consecutive days . four types of sleep/wake patterns were found . in order to investigate how cognitive and physical functions correlated with sleep disorders , patients were classified based on a scale of mental function and the grading of daily activity . the percent of total sleep hours and the sleep rating , showing disturbances in sleep/wake pattern , were evaluated . we found a high degree of individuality in sleep/wake patterns . sleep disturbance was associated with daily activity as well as with cognitive impairment . this monitoring system provides medical personnel with valuable information for clinical management . 
what practicing physicians in north carolina rate as their most challenging geriatric medicine concerns . we recently surveyed a random sample of 500 physicians in family practice , general practice , and internal medicine in north carolina , to discover their most challenging geriatric concerns . using a three-stage survey technique , respondents were asked to answer two open-ended questions about the most challenging geriatric problems they face and what specific geriatric content areas would attract their participation in an educational program . they were then asked to rank 34 topics on which they would like more information . a total of 242 responses were received for a 55 % response rate ( 63 of the 500 were undeliverable ) . responses indicated that physicians are more concerned with management than diagnosis and revealed considerable evidence of empathy and concern . the top three topics had to do with the management of dementia , multiple problems , and depression . approximately 25 % of physicians consider problems of financing health care as among the most challenging problems . 
delirium : masquerades and misdiagnosis in elderly inpatients . delirium is an organic mental disorder defined as transient , fluctuating global dysfunction of cognition . it is common in elderly medical inpatients , yet its varied presentation is often missed or misdiagnosed . 
primary intratemporal tumours of the facial nerve : diagnosis and treatment . benign primary tumours of the facial nerve are uncommon . a slowly progressive facial palsy should be considered the result of a nerve tumour until proven otherwise . improvements in diagnostic imaging techniques of the temporal bone have increased the possibility of a correct pre-operative diagnosis but facial nerve tumours remain a frequently ignored or misdiagnosed entity as a consequence of their subtle and protean clinical manifestations . a series of 12 cases of primary facial nerve tumours is presented . the clinical features , diagnostic modalities and treatment are discussed in relation to a review of the literature . 
parapharyngeal abscess and torticollis . the combination of a parapharyngeal abscess and torticollis in an adult , due to a spastic contraction of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle is an extremely rare condition . we have recently been exposed to such case , in which it was very difficult to make the diagnosis and where ct of the neck gave us the answers without any difficulty . the indication for ct at an early stage in unexplained neck infections is stressed . 
outcome of pregnancies experienced during residency . to investigate potential adverse effects of residency training on pregnancy outcome , a cohort study was conducted among 45 university-affiliated residency programs . outcomes of the first pregnancy experienced during residency were compared between 92 female residents and 144 spouses of male residents . despite long hours , sleep deprivation , and an increase in perceived stress , the female residents were as likely to give birth to a live , full-term newborn as the spouses of male residents . for white cohort members , an increased risk of premature labor without delivery was identified ( rr = 12.3 , 95 % confidence interval 2.4-61 .6 ) . no significant differences were found in prematurity , spontaneous and therapeutic abortions , or presence of congenital abnormalities in the infants . method of delivery and use of anesthetics and of other medications were similar in both groups . pregnancy outcomes between the two groups were similar ; however , the increased risk for premature labor among female residents is a cause for concern and should be further investigated . 
immunopathology and viral reactivation . a general theory of schizophrenia . a theory is proposed that explains a broad range of clinical manifestations in schizophrenia . it is a heuristic device for organizing research in the neuroimmunology and virology of schizophrenia . this approach is different from other immune and viral theories of schizophrenia and defines testable hypotheses for further theory refinement or rejection . defective alpha-interferon ( aifn ) regulation resulting in excessive effect is postulated to cause schizophrenia . the role of aifn in the regulation of development and its induction within the brain by the reactivation of viruses that are commonly present in the normal central nervous system ( cns ) are the primary pathophysiological mechanisms . biological properties of aifn include neural excitation , opiate and adrenocorticotropic hormone activity , and inhibition of cellular proliferation and differentiation . psychosis results from in situ viral stimulation of aifn production in the cns of a vulnerable host having defective regulation of either sensitivity or production . negative symptoms result from aifn effects on cns development and the behavioral toxicity of aifn . biological developmental abnormalities , gender differences in severity , and decline in psychotic symptoms with age are discussed in the context of the theory . research strategies and specific testable hypotheses are presented . 
multiple muscle enzyme release with psychiatric illness . associations ( p less than .001 ) between serum concentrations of lactate dehydrogenase ( ldh ) and glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase ( sgot ) were observed in physically well patients with mania ( n = 100 , r = .70 ) , depression ( n = 138 , r = .51 ) , chronic schizophrenia ( n = 85 , r = .68 ) , and schizoaffective or atypical psychosis ( n = 39 , r = .52 ) discharged from 1978 through 1981 . in contrast , there was a negligible association between these enzymes in 90 nonpsychiatric inpatient control subjects . patients with mania ( 229.0 + / - 106.1 iu/l ) showed significantly ( t = 3.16 , p less than .002 , two-tailed ) higher lactate dehydrogenase ( ldh ) levels than control subjects ( 191 + / - 41.7 iu/l ) and a 14 % incidence of abnormally high serum ldh levels vs. 1 % among control subjects . results were unchanged when patients taking neuroleptics were excluded . these results indicate that psychiatric illness , especially mania , induces release of ldh and sgot , occasionally to unusually high levels . this is similar to previous reports of muscle creatine phosphokinase release in psychiatric patients . presumably , these enzymes are released from skeletal muscle in association with agitation , with muscle tension , or with blood stasis and local tissue hypoxia consequent to hypoactivity . 
infarction in the territory of the medial branch of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery . we report 10 cases of cerebellar infarction in the territory of the medial branch of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery ( mpica ) . axial sections on mri through the middle of the medulla and the cerebellum showed the infarction as a triangular area with a dorsal base and a ventral apex directed towards the fourth ventricle . the infarct also involved the lateral and dorsal medulla when the mpica supplied all or part of these regions . three clinical patterns were observed : 1 ) pseudolabyrinthine signs with or without dysmetria and ataxia when the medulla was spared ; marked axial lateropulsion was present in most cases ; 2 ) complete or incomplete wallenberg 's syndrome , when the medulla was involved ; 3 ) silent infarction . these syndromes are precisely those previously attributed to pica occlusion without distinction of the branch involved . no alteration of consciousness was recorded and spontaneous recovery was the rule . cerebellar infarction in the distribution of the mpica can be regarded as a benign condition with a good prognosis . 
transcranial electrical motor evoked potentials as a prognostic indicator for motor recovery in stroke patients . transcranial electrical motor evoked potentials ( mep ) were examined in 33 patients within three days after stroke . normal values for mep and motor central conduction time ( cct ) were obtained in 46 healthy controls whose meps were evaluated during slight voluntary muscle contraction and at rest . two months later 23 patients were re-examined clinically and electrophysiologically . motor function change was correlated with mep results . two months after stroke the patients with normal or prolonged cct had an improved motor function compared with those with absent cct . mep may be a valuable prognostic indicator in the acute stage of paralytic stroke for recovery of motor function . 
parkinsonian tremor loses its alternating aspect during non-rem sleep and is inhibited by rem sleep . non-rem sleep transforms the waking alternating parkinsonian tremor into subclinical repetitive muscle contractions whose amplitude and duration decrease as non-rem sleep progresses from stages i to iv . during rem sleep parkinsonian tremor disappears while the isolated muscle events increase significantly . 
the effects of cyproheptadine on locomotion and on spasticity in patients with spinal cord injuries . the effects of cyproheptadine , a serotonergic antagonist , were studied in seven patients with spastic paresis of spinal origin . six patients were included in a double blind crossover trial ( maximal dose 24 mg/day ) . the patients were evaluated on both their spasticity and locomotor function . four of the patients also participated in an open trial in which cyproheptadine was administered for a minimum of six months at optimal dose . patients walked on a treadmill at full weight bearing when possible , or with 40 % of their body weight externally supported , as required , by an overhead harness system . cyproheptadine considerably decreased the sustained ankle clonus and episodes of spontaneous spasms observed in all the patients who previously presented these manifestations of spasticity . two patients who required body weight support ( bws ) during locomotion could walk at full weight bearing during cyproheptadine therapy . a more normal timing of emg patterns in these patients during cyproheptadine therapy was associated with temporal distance changes and marked improvement of joint angular displacement . in contrast , the other patients showed marginal changes in the emg and the kinematic pattern but eventually managed to walk at a higher speed . these preliminary results suggest that cyproheptadine can reduce spasticity and enhance locomotor function in spinal cord injured patients . 
motor unit discharge characteristics and short term synchrony in paraplegic humans . frequency of firing and regularity of discharge of human motor units , and short term synchrony between pairs of motor units , have been assessed in extensor digitorum communis ( edc ) and tibialis anterior ( ta ) muscles in control subjects and in clinically complete paraplegic subjects . the discharge pattern of ta motor units in paraplegia ranged from extremely regular to very irregular for different motor units whereas in the control population , and in edc of both groups , there was a narrow , but intermediate , range of regularity . there was little difference in the incidence and degree of short term synchrony ( sts ) in edc between paraplegic and normal subjects . in contrast , virtually no sts of motor units was observed in the ta muscles of the paraplegic group whereas control subjects exhibited approximately the same amount of sts in their ta and edc muscles . it is concluded that the extra burden placed on arm muscles in paraplegia does not change the amount of synchronisation between motor units . furthermore , section of the spinal cord does not increase sts as predicted from lesions of the reticulospinal tract in cats . this may reflect the coincidental removal of supraspinal synchronising inputs of motoneurons or the reorganisation of synaptic inputs in chronic paraplegia . 
magnetic and electrical stimulation of cervical motor roots : technique , site and mechanisms of excitation . cervical motor roots and the brachial plexus were excited transcutaneously with magnetic ( magstim ) and electrical stimulation ( elstim ) applied dorsally over the spine and over the supraclavicular fossa ( erb 's point ) . the compound muscle action potentials ( cmaps ) from the abductor digiti minimi ( adm ) and the biceps muscles ( biceps ) could be evoked with either stimulating technique in all 52 subjects tested . with magstim over the spinous process c7 , greater cmaps were obtained from adm ( p less than or equal to 0.0001 , paired t test ) and biceps ( p less than or equal to 0.005 ) when the inducing current in the coil as viewed from behind was clockwise for the right arm and vice versa . elstim with the cathode over c7/t1 and the anode directed cranially provided greater cmaps from the adm ( p less than or equal to 0.0001 ) and smaller cmaps from the biceps ( p less than or equal to 0.01 ) than with the inverse polarity . magstim of the cervical roots provided cmaps which were smaller from adm ( p less than or equal to 0.0001 ) , and greater from biceps ( p less than or equal to 0.0001 ) , than elstim ( cathode c7/t1 ) , whereas latencies did not differ significantly ( p less than or equal to 0.3 ) . when comparing elstim and magstim applied over erb 's point , the former yielded greater cmaps and 0.5 ms longer latencies from both the adm and biceps ( p less than or equal to 0.001 ) . from these data and additional studies in four patients , including direct intraoperative root stimulation in one of them , it is concluded that elstim and magstim over the spine excite the motor roots at a similar site , that is , within a few cm outside the intervertebral foramina . 
eosinophilic meningitis : cause of a chronic pain syndrome . three tourists developed eosinophilic meningitis after visiting the fijian islands . two had a severe and long lasting illness with chronic intractable pain . in one patient electrophysiological studies and mri scan of the brain were abnormal and provided evidence of both radicular and cerebral parenchymal involvement by the most likely causative agent , angiostrongylus cantonensis . 
rigid spine syndrome with respiratory failure . the pathogenesis and therapy of respiratory failure in the rigid spine syndrome are discussed in two cases who improved with respiratory assistance . in both cases , the partial pressures of oxygen and carbon dioxide were reversed in arterial blood gas analysis and % vc was less than 30 % . remission from respiratory failure has been obtained by the use of a ventilator during the night . the cause of the respiratory failure in both cases was severe restrictive respiratory dysfunction due to extreme flattening of the chest and fixation of the thorax during respiration as a result of contracture of costovertebral joints . all the previously reported cases of the rigid spine syndrome with respiratory failure died . appropriate use of the ventilator can improve the prognosis . 
learning a unimanual motor skill by partial commissurotomy patients . a series of motor tests on four chinese partial commissurotomy patients is reported . the single-stage commissurotomy in all four patients included the anterior commissures and two-thirds or four-fifths section of the corpus callosum with sparing of the splenium . there was no demonstrable ability to transfer hand posture in these patients . this was the major evidence for functional deconnexion . a newly learned task of one-hand knotting revealed right hand impairment in all four patients . there was no dyspraxia in the right hand for over-learned object-handling tasks in these patients . it is suggested that there might be right hemisphere specialisation for the initial acquisition of unimanual object-handling skills and that the spared callosal fibres in the splenium alone are insufficient to mediate task control under these conditions . this is supported by the finding that one of these patients , who was the only one who had a right parietal lesion , was unable to perform the newly learned task with either hand . 
involvement of the central nervous system in chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy : a clinical , electrophysiological and magnetic resonance imaging study . in a consecutive series of 30 patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy ( cidp ) minor clinical evidence of cns involvement was found in five . cranial magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) was performed in 28 and revealed abnormalities consistent with demyelination in nine patients aged less than 50 years and abnormalities in five aged 50 years or over . measurements of central motor conduction time ( cmct ) were obtained in 18 and showed unilateral or bilateral abnormalities in six . it is concluded that subclinical evidence of central nervous system ( cns ) involvement is common , at least in patients with cidp in the united kingdom , but that clinically evident signs of cns disease are infrequent . the association of a multiple sclerosis-like syndrome with cidp is rare . 
hip pain in late pregnancy . hip pain in late pregnancy is quite common , and its etiology is rarely established unless acute demineralization occurs . we measured the bone mineral content of both hips in 26 women within 48 hours of delivery . twelve of 36 densities ( 33 % ) were decreased in a group with severe pain when compared to 12 of 120 decreased densities ( 10 % ) in the remaining patients ( p less than .05 ) . those data suggest that severe hip pain may be related to a decrease in bone mineral content . 
non-vesicular release of glutamate from glial cells by reversed electrogenic glutamate uptake . glutamate uptake into nerve and glial cells usually functions to keep the extracellular glutamate concentration low in the central nervous system . but one component of glutamate release from neurons is calcium-independent , suggesting a non-vesicular release that may be due to a reversal of glutamate uptake . the activity of the electrogenic glutamate uptake carrier can be monitored by measuring the membrane current it produces , and uptake is activated by intracellular potassium ions . here we report that raising the potassium concentration around glial cells evokes an outward current component produced by reversed glutamate uptake . this current is activated by intracellular glutamate and sodium , inhibited by extracellular glutamate and sodium , and increased by membrane depolarization . these results demonstrate a non-vesicular mechanism for the release of glutamate from glial cells and neurons . this mechanism may contribute to the neurotoxic rise in extracellular glutamate concentration during brain anoxia . 
long-term potentiation of electrotonic coupling at mixed synapses . long-term potentiation of chemical synapses is closely related to memory and learning . studies of this process have concentrated on chemically mediated excitatory synapses . by contrast , activity-dependent modification of gap junctions , which also widely exist in higher structures such as hippocampus and neocortex , has not been described . here we report that at mixed synapses between sensory afferents and an identified reticulospinal neuron , the electrotonic coupling potential can be potentiated , as well as the chemically mediated excitatory postsynaptic potential , for a prolonged time period using a stimulation paradigm like that which produces long-term potentiation in hippocampus . the effect on coupling is due to an increase in gap-junctional conductance . our data indicate that the potentiation of both synaptic components requires an increase in intracellular calcium , involves activation of nmda ( n-methyl-d-aspartate ) receptors , and is specific to the tetanized pathway . 
indications for thymectomy in myasthenia gravis . fifty-six board-certified neurologists with interest and expertise in myasthenia completed a survey of indications for thymectomy in myasthenia gravis . thymectomy was advocated for virtually all patients with thymoma , for a variable subset of patients with generalized myasthenia without thymoma , and occasionally for selected patients with disabling ocular myasthenia . 
phenotypic heterogeneity of spinal muscular atrophy mapping to chromosome 5q11.2-13 .3 ( sma 5q ) . we made phenotypic analysis of 14 families with spinal muscular atrophy ( sma ) linking to chromosome 5q11.2-13 .3 ( sma 5q ) , and 2 that may not map to this locus , to assess clinical symptoms among sma families known to result from mutation at the identical gene/locus . although the current number of families is still small , the correlation of clinical phenotype and molecular genotype supports 2 observations . first , sma mutations at the 5q locus present with a broad continuum of clinical abnormalities , and 2nd , the single clearly unlinked family presents with an unusual phenotype characterized by relatively late onset and early death . thus , there are as yet no unambiguous cases of typical sma families that are clearly unlinked to the locus at 5q-ie , no clear cases of nonallelic heterogeneity . analysis of sma 5q families supports the view that , with certain exceptions , there is little phenotypic intrafamilial variability . when families were ranked by severity of disease there was a strong correlation with age of onset . onset within the 1st few months was associated with early death , but not in all cases . with rare exception , onset after 1 year of age was associated with less severe disease and greater longevity . 
routine and quantitative eeg analysis in gilles de la tourette 's syndrome . gilles de la tourette 's syndrome ( gdlt ) is a neurobehavioral disorder , with a reportedly high frequency of eeg abnormalities . we performed eegs on 48 consecutive patients with gdlt , and frequency analysis in 26 patients ( 17 males ) , and compared the results with those from age - and sex-matched normal controls . routine 18-channel eeg revealed minimal diffuse nonspecific slowing in only 3 of 48 patients ( 6 % ) and in 2 of 26 controls ( 7.7 % ) . the frequency analysis of the eeg of the 26 gdlt patients and their normal controls showed similar brain activity . we conclude that no significant differences exist between the eeg activity in gdlt patients as compared with that in sex - and age-matched controls in routine as well as in quantitative eeg . 
internuclear ophthalmoplegia in the chiari type ii malformation . we describe 3 cases of chiari type ii malformation presenting with bilateral internuclear ophthalmoplegia ( ino ) . although prominent , the ino was not an isolated sign in any of the patients ; superimposed abduction paresis was present in 2 , and deficits in smooth pursuit , optokinetic nystagmus , and vestibulo-ocular responses were present in 3 . two had hydrocephalus : 1 was clinically unchanged without therapy after 5 years ; the other did not improve with shunting . findings in our 3 patients , along with the 4 previously reported , confirm that ino is 1 manifestation of widespread brainstem or cerebellar dysfunction . its origin is probably multifactorial , related to hydrocephalus , vascular compromise , direct neuronal distortion , or congenital neural malformation . 
sensory visual testing in idiopathic intracranial hypertension : measures sensitive to change . management decisions in idiopathic intracranial hypertension ( iih ; pseudotumor cerebri ) are based on the presence and change of visual loss . to study this change , we evaluated tests of sensory visual function over time . we used the results of the right eye of 19 patients whose clinical status improved ( decrease in papilledema grade ) , and compared the outcome measures of the initial and final examinations . contrast sensitivity testing showed significant improvement in the middle and high spatial frequency targets . snellen acuity and color tests did not change significantly over the same period . both goldmann and automated visual field grade significantly improved from the initial to the final visit , while the presence of a defect on confrontation visual fields did not . numerical analyses of automated perimetry thresholds also showed significant improvement . generalized loss , most pronounced on the nasal side of the visual field , was present on the initial examination . generalized improvement followed , least in the central and inferior paracentral areas . patients with iih should be followed with contrast sensitivity testing and perimetry using a disease-specific strategy . 
deteriorating ischemic stroke : risk factors and prognosis . to determine a risk profile of deterioration in cerebral infarction of less than 8 hours ' duration , we studied prospectively a series of clinical and radiologic data in 98 patients . we evaluated the canadian neurological scale score and barthel index during a follow-up period of 3 months . there was deterioration in the 1st 48 hours in 40.8 % of the patients . high systolic blood pressure , elevated blood sugar concentration at admission , and carotid territory involvement were independently related with deterioration in the logistic regression analysis . death occurred in 35 % of the patients with deteriorating infarcts and in 8.6 % of those with stable infarcts . at the end of the study , functional capacity was lower in those with deteriorating infarcts , but the 2 groups improved in parallel from the 4th day onward . 
infantile cns spongy degeneration -- 14 cases : clinical update . we studied 14 arab infants with infantile spongy degeneration , 13 of whom were products of consanguineous marriages . they presented in infancy with macrocephaly , poor visual behavior or blindness , and axial hypotonia with appendicular spasticity . brain ct and mri showed diffuse symmetric leukoencephalopathy , even before neurologic symptoms . there were relatively normal eegs . the visual evoked responses ( p100 ) were either absent or delayed early in the course . the brainstem auditory evoked responses showed milder abnormalities , with loss of later components before the earlier ones . deficient aspartoacylase activity in cultured fibroblasts or brain biopsy confirmed the diagnosis in all patients . 
dominantly inherited apathy , central hypoventilation , and parkinson 's syndrome : clinical , biochemical , and neuropathologic studies of 2 new cases . we describe 2 new patients from a family in which 10 persons in 3 successive generations had a dominant neuropsychiatric disorder characterized by apathy , central hypoventilation , and parkinsonism . neuropathologically , both patients showed severe neuronal loss and reactive gliosis in the substantia nigra . neurochemical studies showed a marked depletion of dopamine in substantia nigra , putamen , and caudate nucleus , as well as reduction in serotonin content in the substantia nigra . glutamate contents were low in frontal cortex and thalamus , and gamma-aminobutyric acid ( gaba ) contents were low in thalamus and substantia nigra of both patients . in addition , phosphoethanolamine contents were reduced in all brain regions of both patients , especially in the substantia nigra . one patient with severe symptoms had low levels of homovanillic acid , 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid , and gaba in his csf repeatedly for 3 years before death ( aged 58 ) , while the 2nd patient died ( aged 51 ) of an unrelated cause before developing any symptoms of the familial disorder . because brain deficiencies of multiple neurotransmitters appear to be involved , this disorder is unlikely to respond to treatment ; however , neurochemical studies of csf may make presymptomatic diagnosis feasible . 
sensorineural hearing loss : a reversible effect of valproic acid . we report 2 patients over the age of 70 who , while on valproate ( vpa ) for complex partial seizures , developed sensorineural hearing loss . following discontinuation of vpa for nonaudiologic reasons , the patients reported improved hearing which was confirmed by audiometry . these findings represent vpa-induced sensorineural hearing loss , possibly in preexisting presbycusis . 
large cystic optic glioma . a 5 1/2 - year-old boy developed a huge cyst in his chiasmal glioma 4 years after radiation therapy . the cyst produced obtundation but was successfully treated . 
study of verbal description in neuropathic pain . the aim of this paper is to study the quality of verbal description and its diagnostic value in neuropathic pain . the verbal description of pain as assessed by a french adjective list questionnaire ( qdsa ) is compared between a group of 100 patients with neuropathic pain and a mixed group of 97 chronic benign and cancer non-neuropathic pain patients . seventeen descriptors of the 61 qdsa descriptors have a significant intergroup frequency difference . by principal component analysis and varimax rotation of the intercorrelation matrix of descriptors in the neuropathic group . 7 factors accounting for 66.0 % of the total variance are derived . six factors reflect purely sensory or affective aspects of the pain experience . seven descriptors from the discriminant analysis function correctly assign 77 % of neuropathic pain patients and 81 % of the non-neuropathic pain patients . in a second neuropathic pain group of 32 patients , the discriminant function coefficient permits correct diagnostic categorization in 66 % of the cases . implications for clinical practice and trials are discussed . 
quantification of biomedical findings of chronic pain patients : development of an index of pathology . difficulties in assessing and quantifying the biomedical signs and symptoms that may be related to patients ' reports of pain are well recognized . although there appears to be some consensus among physicians as to the potential utility of examination and diagnostic tests frequently used to evaluate chronic pain patients , little attention has been paid to the reliability of interpreting the results of these procedures . moreover , the integration of biomedical findings to form a general index of pathology associated with chronic pain has been a difficult problem to solve because not all biomedical procedures used to evaluate pain patients are necessarily relevant or indicated for a specific patient . two studies are presented that were designed to evaluate the reliability of 23 biomedical procedures commonly used to evaluate chronic pain patients and to determine if findings on these procedures can effectively be combined to form a reliable index of physical pathology . the results of study 1 suggest that 17 of the 23 procedures can be applied in clinical setting with acceptable levels of reliability . study 2 provides evidence that an innovative weighted scoring approach , based on current medical consensus , can be used to produce a reliable , general index of pathology that is independent of the number of procedures used to evaluate patients . the utility of this quantification approach to biomedical findings for clinical and research purposes is discussed . 
is emotional disturbance a precipitator or a consequence of chronic pain ? the present study examined the relationship between psychological factors and pain in order to assess the contribution of emotional disturbance to the perpetuation of pain . a group of 163 chronic pain suffers in multiple settings was compared with 81 control subjects on measures of personal history antecedent to pain onset , as well as on measures of current emotional disturbance . in addition , these psychological variables were examined for their associations with subjectively rated pain intensity . overall , pain was found to be related to more current depression and less current life satisfaction , but was not associated with most of the personal history variables examined . these results suggests that emotional disturbance in pain patients is more likely to be a consequence than a cause of chronic pain . the dangers of routinely ascribing intractable pain to psychological causation are discussed in the light of these findings . 
epidural haematoma requiring surgical decompression following repeated cervical epidural steroid injections for chronic pain . we report a case of epidural haematoma following a steroid injection into the cervical epidural space . the complication occurred on the seventh such injection over a 2 year period for chronic spinal pain . surgical decompression over the seventh cervical and the upper 3 thoracic vertebrae was required to alleviate the symptoms of paralysis and anaesthesia . the patient subsequently required skin grafting to the surgical site and two trans-urethral resections of the prostate gland during his 6 week hospital admission . he made a full recovery . 
quantitative evaluation of hypnotically suggested hyperaesthesia and analgesia by painful laser stimulation . the ability to reduce both clinically and experimentally induced pain by hypnotic suggestion of analgesia is well known . however , the nature of hypnotic analgesia still remains uncertain . attempts to demonstrate and identify specific psychophysiological mechanisms have , so far , been unsatisfactory . methodological problems in inducing pain and monitoring physiological responses may be the reason for this lack of success . in the present study , we have attempted to eliminate some of these methodological problems . the sensory and pain thresholds to laser stimulation were determined , and the laser-evoked brain potentials were measured for 8 highly hypnotically susceptible subjects in 3 conditions : ( 1 ) waking state , ( 2 ) suggestion of hyperaesthesia , ( 3 ) suggestion of analgesia . the thresholds were reduced during induced hyperaesthesia and increased during analgesia . during hyperaesthesia sensations could be evoked by laser intensities which were below intensities that could be perceived in the awake state . the amplitude of the evoked brain potentials increased during hyperaesthesia and decreased during analgesia . the latency of the potential remained constant . the perception of pain during hypnosis can change very fast , indicating that slow endogenous mechanisms may play only a minor role in suggested hyperaesthesia/analgesia . 
cytoreductive hepatic surgery for neuroendocrine tumors . we retrospectively reviewed 37 patients who underwent hepatic resection between 1970 and 1989 to evaluate the role of cytoreductive hepatic surgery in patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors ( carcinoid , 24 ; islet cell , 13 ) . seventeen resections were curative ( no gross residual tumor ) ; nine patients had symptomatic endocrinopathies and seven patients had symptoms caused by the primary tumor . eight of nine patients with symptomatic endorcrinopathies obtained complete relief of symptoms ; five are alive with no evidence of disease at 2 to 82 months ( mean , 26 months ) . six of seven patients with symptoms caused by the primary tumor obtained complete relief ; five are alive with no evidence of disease at 5 to 28 months ( mean , 14 months ) . one symptom-free patient underwent curative hepatic resection 5 years after abdominoperineal resection for a rectal carcinoid . twenty resections were palliative ( gross residual tumor ) ; 16 patients had symptomatic endocrinopathies and 4 patients had symptoms caused by the primary tumor . eight of 16 patients with symptomatic endocrinopathies obtained complete relief ; five are alive at 2 to 30 months ( mean , 11 months ) , with a mean duration of complete relief of 6 months ( 3 to 12 months ) . all four patients who underwent resection for symptoms caused by the primary tumor obtained complete relief ; two are alive and symptom free at 10 and 101 months . our experience suggests that curative surgery should be considered in all patients with completely resectable metastatic disease and that palliative surgery , despite the short duration of complete relief , should be considered in selected patients because it delays and may reduce the subsequent need for medical therapy . 
pharyngeal shape and dimensions in healthy subjects , snorers , and patients with obstructive sleep apnoea . to characterise the relation between pharyngeal anatomy and sleep related disordered breathing , 17 men with complaints of snoring were studied by all night polysomnography . ten of them had obstructive sleep apnoea ( mean ( sd ) apnoea-hypopnoea index 56.3 ( 41.7 ) , age 52 ( 10 ) years , body mass index 31.4 ( 5.3 ) kg/m2 ) ; whereas seven were simple snorers ( apnoea-hypopnoea index 6.7 ( 4.6 ) , age 40 ( 17 ) years , body mass index 25.9 ( 4.3 ) kg/m2 ) . the pharynx was studied by magnetic resonance imaging in all patients and in a group of eight healthy subjects ( age 27 ( 6 ) years , body mass index 21.8 ( 2.2 ) kg/m2 , both significantly lower than in the patients ; p less than 0.05 ) . on the midsagittal section and six transverse sections equally spaced between the nasopharynx and the hypopharynx several anatomical measurements were performed . results showed that there was no difference between groups in most magnetic resonance imaging measurements , but that on transverse sections the pharyngeal cross section had an elliptic shape with the long axis oriented in the coronal plane in normal subjects , whereas in apnoeic and snoring patients the pharynx was circular or had an elliptic shape but with the long axis oriented in the sagittal plane . it is suggested that the change in pharyngeal cross sectional shape , secondary to a reduction in pharyngeal transverse diameter , may be related to the risk of developing sleep related disordered breathing . 
role of serum prolactin determination in evaluation of impotent patient . hyperprolactinemia is a recognized cause of impotence . the discovery of elevated prolactin levels in impotent men is very important since pharmacotherapy in this instance is highly successful . we review our experience with prolactin determinations in impotent men , and a population is defined that may benefit from routine prolactin determination . in our experience , the predominant symptom associated with hyperprolactinemia in men is loss of libido . 
retrograde transurethral balloon dilation of prostate : innovative management of abacterial chronic prostatitis and prostatodynia . retrograde transurethral balloon dilatation ( rtbd ) of the prostate recently has been suggested as alternative therapy for patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia ( bph ) . seven patients with documented functional urinary outlet obstruction at the level of the bladder neck or prostatic urethra underwent rtbd of prostate . each patient had a classic diagnosis of abacterial chronic prostatitis or prostatodynia based on history , physical examination , and localization cultures . prior to rtbd of prostate , patients underwent cystoscopy , voiding cystourethrogram , urodynamic and uroflow studies . rtbd of prostate was done as an outpatient procedure requiring intravenous sedation or general anesthesia . dilation was performed with a 25-mm urethroplasty balloon catheter inflated at 3.5 atm of pressure for twenty minutes . improvement in voiding symptomatology was noted in all patients and graded numerically ( 0-10 scale ) , with ten indicating normal voiding . follow-up to date ranges from one to five months . this technique may have promise as a treatment option in patients with abacterial chronic prostatitis and prostatodynia . 
protecting the vasculature : an eye toward the future . although calcium antagonists were originally developed for use in the management of patients with angina pectoris , they are now used in the management of other cardiovascular disorders , including hypertension . more recently , the calcium antagonists have been under investigation for their potential protective role in atherosclerosis . coupled with these new possibilities for therapeutic use are the development of new , long-acting , tissue-specific calcium antagonists . amlodipine belongs to this group , and although it is a dihydropyridine-based calcium antagonist , its pharmacologic profile differs from that of other dihydropyridine-based calcium antagonists . differences include : different ph optimum for receptor binding , different rates of association and dissociation , and differences in allosteric interaction with the diltiazem and verapamil binding sites . amlodipine , when given orally to rabbits receiving a high-cholesterol diet , reduces atheroma formation . evidence of its ability to protect the vasculature is provided by its ability to significantly increase ( p less than 0.001 ) survival in stroke-prone hypertensive rats . 
anisocoria in the pigmentary dispersion syndrome we studied four patients with anisocoria and the pigmentary dispersion syndrome . in all patients , the larger pupil was on the side of the greater iris transillumination . the amount of anisocoria was between 0.5 and 1.5 mm and was the same in both the light and dark . there was no blepharoptosis , and all pupils dilated normally with cocaine . all of the patients were young men with myopia , and one patient had increased intraocular pressure . 
laser placement in noncontact nd : yag cyclophotocoagulation . we treated 40 eyes of 40 patients by using noncontact transscleral nd : yag cyclophotocoagulation to determine whether treatment 1.5 or 3.0 mm posterior to the corneoscleral lumbus was preferable . patients were randomly assigned to one of the treatment groups , and all other variables , including power , number , and distribution of laser applications , were kept constant . six months postoperatively , those treated 1.5 mm posterior to the corneoscleral limbus had a lower intraocular pressure ( p = .0047 ) than those treated 3.0 mm from the corneoscleral limbus . the 1.5-mm group also required fewer retreatment ( p = .017 ) and had a slightly lower occurrence of visual acuity loss after this procedure . we believe it may be advantageous to locate the laser application approximately 1.5 mm posterior to the corneoscleral limbus , rather than further posteriorly , when performing noncontact transscleral nd : yag cyclophotocoagulation . 
antinociceptive interaction between opioids and medetomidine : systemic additivity and spinal synergy . the antinociceptive interaction on the tail flick ( tf ) and hot plate ( hp ) tests between opioid analgesics and medetomidine after intravenous ( iv ) or intrathecal administration were examined by isobolographic analysis . male sprague-dawley rats received fixed ratios of medetomidine to morphine , fentanyl , and meperidine of 1:10 and 1:30 , 10:1 , and 1:3 , respectively , by iv administration or 10:1 , 3:1 and 10:1 , and 1:3 by intrathecal administration , respectively . data were expressed as the percentage maximal possible effect ( % mpe ) . the a50 ( dose producing 50 % mpe ) for each drug or drug combination was determined from the dose-response curve . isobolographic analysis revealed that the effect of medetomidine combined with fentanyl , morphine , or meperidine was additive after iv administration . the intrathecal administration of combinations of medetomidine with the opioids produced a synergistic antinociceptive effect in the tf but not hp test . these data confirmed that the interaction between medetomidine and opioids in producing antinociception may be additive or synergistic , depending on the route of administration , drug ratio administered , and level of processing of the nociceptive input ( i.e. , spinal vs. supraspinal ) . moreover , these results were consistent with a spinal role for alpha-2 adrenoceptors in mediating antinociception . the authors suggest that the interaction between the opioid and alpha-2 adrenergic receptors occurs within the spinal cord . 
calcium antagonists in the management of patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage : a review . cerebral arterial vasospasm and infarction is the leading cause of death and disability among patients who reach a major medical center after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) . recent evidence suggests that two calcium antagonists , nimodipine or nicardipine , may be useful in preventing this important complication of sah . this paper reviews the current status of these two calcium antagonists in the management of sah . 
sudden blindness after thermocoagulation of the trigeminal ganglion . sudden blindness during percutaneous thermocoagulation of the gasserian ganglion occurred in a 72-year-old woman with trigeminal neuralgia . considered a safe procedure , we highlight the possibility of this serious complication which was probably due to direct damage of the optic nerve . 
short stature , mental retardation , and hypoparathyroidism : a new syndrome . eight children ( four boys and four girls ) with extreme failure to thrive , dysmorphic features , developmental delay , hypoparathyroidism , and abnormal skeletal survey were studied . they were the products of seven consanguinous marriages , two of the patients being brothers . in the remaining six families , a further four children had affected siblings who had died in infancy . when assessed the children were aged 0.47-12 .8 years ; sd scores were less than -2 for height , weight , and head circumference in all patients . the children had identical facies with deep set eyes , depressed nasal bridge with beaked nose , long philtrum , thin upper lip , micrognathia , and large floppy earlobes . they were all developmentally retarded . the following abnormalities were found on investigation : hypocalcaemia in all ( of whom six of seven had hypoparathyroidism ) , medullary stenosis and other skeletal survey defects in seven of the eight children , and reduced numbers of t cell subsets in four of four tested . we believe that these children represent a new , as yet undescribed genetically determined syndrome . 
survey of adolescents with severe intellectual handicap . a diagnostic survey was undertaken of children aged 11 to 19 years in tameside with severe learning difficulties ( intelligence quotient less than or equal to 50 ) . eighty-two children were identified and their medical records reviewed . a specific diagnosis for the retardation was documented in 25 ( 30 % ) of the children , 18 of whom had down 's syndrome . a probable aetiology or a disorder of unknown aetiology had been identified in a further 21 ( 26 % ) children . to confirm the existing diagnosis , identify new diagnoses , and offer genetic counselling , the parents of 63 children were offered detailed reassessment of their child . fifty three children were reviewed , and a specific disorder identified in 25 out of 31 previously undiagnosed children . the most frequent diagnoses made were fragile x syndrome and rett 's syndrome . on completion of the survey , 61 of the 82 children ( 74 % ) had a specific diagnosis or probable aetiology identified , 12 ( 15 % ) had associated disorders such as cerebral palsy , and in only nine of the 82 children ( 11 % ) were there no clues at all to the cause of their retardation . 
continuous papaveretum infusion for the control of pain in painful sickling crisis . we describe our experience of using continuous papaveretum infusions to control pain in 24 children admitted on 45 occasions with painful sickling crisis . the children were aged from 1.7 to 14.3 years . infusion duration ranged from one to nine days ( median three days ) , total dose from 0.3 to 21 mg/kg ( median 2.4 mg/kg ) , with a pronounced tendency for dosage to increase with increasing age . no respiratory depression was observed . one infusion was discontinued because of cerebral toxicity . 
benign intracranial hypertension after ciprofloxacin administration . many drugs , including antibiotics , have been implicated in the aetiology of benign intracranial hypertension . we report the development of benign intracranial hypertension after the use of ciprofloxacin in a teenager with cystic fibrosis . 
endocrine function and morphological findings in patients with disorders of the hypothalamo-pituitary area : a study with magnetic resonance . evaluation of the sellar area was performed with magnetic resonance imaging in 101 patients ( age range 0.8-27 years ) with hypopituitarism , isolated diabetes insipidus , hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism , and central precocious puberty . the hypopituitary patients ( n = 70 ) included multiple pituitary deficiency ( n = 23 ) , pituitary deficiency with diabetes insipidus ( n = 5 ) , and isolated growth hormone deficiency ( n = 42 ) . the patients with multiple pituitary deficiency showed pathological morphological findings in all cases , with stalk and posterior lobe always involved . the group with associated diabetes insipidus had abnormal stalk in four of five cases and posterior lobe not visible in all cases . only five of 42 ( 12 % ) patients with isolated growth hormone deficiency had abnormalities of the sellar area . in two out of four patients with isolated diabetes insipidus posterior lobe was not seen . all patients with hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism ( three with kallmann 's syndrome , one prader-willi syndrome , and two idiopathic hypogonadism ) appeared normal . in precocious puberty ( n = 21 ) the three patients with onset of symptoms before age 2 years exhibited a hypothalamic hamartoma , whereas in the others with onset of puberty between age 2 and 7 the magnetic resonance image was normal in 17 of 18 patients . the probability of finding a pathological magnetic resonance image was considerably high in our patients with multiple pituitary deficiency , isolated diabetes insipidus , and precocious puberty with very early onset of symptoms . on the contrary , purely functional abnormality is suggested in most patients with isolated growth hormone deficiency , hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism , and precocious puberty with later onset of symptoms . 
central nervous system vasculitis after chickenpox -- cause or coincidence ? a 7.5 year old boy , known to have a seizure disorder , presented with an infarct in the left middle cerebral artery territory , 10 weeks after severe chickenpox . immunofluorescent antibody titre to the varicella zoster virus in the cerebrospinal fluid was 1:32 . cerebral angiography showed evidence of focal vasculitis . he presented again seven months later with an acute exacerbation of seizures . magnetic resonance imaging of the brain showed an old posterior extension of the infarct , but a repeated angiography demonstrated an improvement in the vasculitic process . cerebrospinal fluid antibody titre was again 1:32 . although this may have been an unfortunate coincidence , a possible association between chickenpox and vasculitis , similar to that reported with herpes zoster , and with potentially significant clinical implications , should be considered . as a definite proof can be obtained only by a brain biopsy , however , which is generally not indicated in such cases , only additional clinical reports can lead to delineation of this association as a definite entity . 
pneumocephalus secondary to a high-pressure water injury to the nose . we report a case of pneumocephalus following a water jet injury to the nose incurred during a water-skiing fall . pneumocephalus due to this type of injury has not been previously reported , to our knowledge . since this unusual injury may be associated with serious complications , it must be promptly recognized and treated . 
quantitative assessment of extradural bupivacaine analgesia . bupivacaine ( 0.5 % ) 20 ml was administered extradurally to six healthy volunteers . it was found that simultaneous application of 10 needles to the skin could evoke pain when analgesia was obtained to one needle stimulation . in addition , a laser beam was used as a quantitative technique to activate simultaneously many cutaneous nociceptors . for 7 h , thresholds ( sensory and pain ) and pain-evoked brain potentials ( amplitude and latency ) to laser stimulation were monitored and used for quantitative assessment of onset , efficacy and duration of analgesia at various dermatomes ( c7 , t8 , t10 , t12 , l1 , l3 , s1 ) . the onset time of analgesia was shortest and conduction delay longest at the dermatome related to the site of injection ( l3 ) . full analgesia was obtained at l1 , l3 and s1 , although the peak efficacy at s1 was delayed for 120-180 min after injection . a minor effect was found at dermatome c7 approximately 60 min after injection . 
onset phase of spinal bupivacaine analgesia assessed quantitatively by laser stimulation . analgesia was assessed quantitatively at various dermatomes ( c7 , t8 , t10 , t12 , l1 , l3 , s1 ) for the first 30 min after subarachnoid administration of 0.5 % bupivacaine 3.5 ml . stimulation with 10 needles and laser stimulation could evoke pain in dermatomes with adequate analgesia to single needle stimulation . analgesia was assessed by thresholds ( sensory and pain ) and by pain-related brain potentials ( amplitude and latency ) to laser stimulation . little analgesia was found at t10 , but it increased gradually towards caudal segments . the dermatome related to the site of the injection ( l3 ) was not blocked to a greater extent than the surrounding dermatomes . conduction time ( the latency of the evoked brain potential ) was increased relatively more from the s1 dermatome compared with l1 . 
are myotonias and periodic paralyses associated with susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia ? excised muscles from patients with myotonia or periodic paralysis were subjected to the in vitro contracture test for susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia ( mh ) . in a group of 44 patients , this standard test gave four positive , 10 equivocal and 30 negative results . the results for 27 control muscles from normal subjects were negative . when the test was performed with less than normal concentrations of contracture-triggering substances ( caffeine less than or equal to 2 mmol litre-1 , less than or equal to 2 % halothane ) , 70 % of the muscles from the patients and only 15 % of the controls responded with small contractures ( less than 0.2 g ) . these results should not be taken to indicate that the patients have the genetic trait for mh . the positive and equivocal test results , in addition to the slight contractures , may be accounted for by the electrical after-activity in the cases of pure myotonia , and by increased resting myoplasmic [ ca2 + ] in myotonic dystrophy . this shows that the in vitro contracture test lacks specificity . 
7th nerve palsy after extradural blood patch . we describe a patient who developed a 7th cranial nerve palsy following an extradural blood patch ; full recovery followed . the likely aetiology is discussed . 
bladder function in the mentally retarded . a group of 21 mentally retarded patients with severe , long-standing urinary symptoms underwent urodynamical investigation . the most common abnormalities were detrusor areflexia and detrusor hyper-reflexia . of 11 patients treated surgically , 10 derived marked benefit . drugs were successful in reducing micturition problems in 3/6 patients . severely retarded patients with spastic quadriplegia are difficult to investigate and if this is associated with detrusor hyper-reflexia it is impossible to treat them in any way . severely retarded patients with detrusor areflexia and infrequent voiding can benefit from bladder outlet surgery . patients with moderate ( especially mild ) retardation can be investigated and treated in the same way as non-retarded people . 
lens opacity as a predictor of visual field impairment due to cataract . the contribution of cataract to the decrease of visual field in patients with glaucoma is difficult to ascertain . to attempt to quantitate the change in visual field due to cataract , we examined 27 eyes of 26 patients before and after cataract extraction . the examination consisted of measurement of best refraction with visual acuity , visual field testing with the pupil dilated , measurement of lens opacity , determination of the intraocular pressure , and evaluation of the character of the cataract before surgery and of the posterior capsule after surgery . the results reaffirmed the detrimental effect that cataract may have on the visual field but also showed that the heterogeneity of cataracts limits the usefulness of the lens opacity meter in quantitating the extent of visual field loss due to cataract . 
choroid plexus tumors in the breast cancer-sarcoma syndrome . choroid plexus neoplasms are rare epithelial tumors of the central nervous system . a carcinoma of the choroid plexus occurred in a child from a family with the breast cancer-sarcoma syndrome ( li-fraumeni or sbla syndrome ) , an inherited condition characterized by the development of diverse neoplasms ( sarcoma , breast cancer , brain tumors , leukemia , adrenal cortical carcinoma , and others ) . choroid plexus carcinomas were identified in two kindreds previously reported with the syndrome . the literature contains reports of choroid plexus neoplasms occurring in families and in individuals with multiple primary tumors . choroid plexus neoplasm may be a manifestation of the inherited proclivity to tumor development in the breast cancer-sarcoma syndrome . 
codeine increases pain thresholds to copper vapor laser stimuli in extensive but not poor metabolizers of sparteine . the analgesic efficacy and kinetics of a single oral dose of 75 mg codeine was investigated in 12 extensive metabolizers and 12 poor metabolizers of sparteine in a double-blind , placebo-controlled crossover study . the cosegregation of the o-demethylation of codeine to morphine with the sparteine oxidation polymorphism was confirmed . hence morphine could not be detected in the plasma of any of the poor metabolizers , whereas detectable morphine plasma levels were found in 10 of 12 extensive metabolizers . pain thresholds to laser stimuli were determined before drug intake and 90 , 150 , and 210 minutes after drug intake . codeine significantly increased the pricking pain thresholds in the extensive metabolizers ( p less than 0.05 ) , whereas there were no significant changes in the poor metabolizers . no change in pain thresholds occurred with placebo in any of the two phenotypes . in the extensive metabolizers there was a significant positive correlation between the increase in pain threshold and plasma concentration of codeine . the study supports the hypothesis that morphine formation is essential for achievement of analgesia during codeine treatment . 
effects of a multidisciplinary management program on neurologically impaired patients with dysphagia . dysphagia is a major problem in patients with neurologic disorders . aspiration pneumonia and impaired nutritional status are consequences of dysphagia that result in high morbidity and mortality rates . assessment and treatment of the dysphagic patient by a multidisciplinary team have been advocated but to date the effects of such an approach have not been demonstrated quantitatively . this prospective study was conducted to determine if a dysphagia program would improve patients ' caloric intake and body weight , decrease the instances of aspiration pneumonia , or improve patients ' feeding ability . patients were referred from a 26 bed neurology/neurosurgery unit . a time series design was utilized . the control group consisted of 15 patients ( mean age = 46.1 years ) , managed according to the existing ward routine . subsequently , nursing staff attended a dysphagia training program . following this , the treated group of 16 patients , ( mean age = 49.3 years ) was assessed by the dysphagia team , using bedside and videofluoroscopic examinations to determine the specific swallowing disorder . an individualized treatment program was designed for each patient . the groups were compared on the basis of deviation from their baseline weight , deviation from ideal energy intake , and the incidence of aspiration pneumonia . statistical analysis revealed that the groups were comparable in age , number of days on the study , and glasgow coma scale score ; and that a significant weight gain and increase in caloric intake occurred in the treated group . no incidence of aspiration pneumonia was reported in either group . we speculate that this may have been influenced by the meticulousness of the care delivered in an acute unit as well as greater attention to prevention given in both groups . 
changes in thermal and mechanical pain thresholds in hand amputees . a clinical and physiological long-term follow-up . in a previous study , allodynia to cold and vibratory stimuli was found in the finger stumps of 24 patients with amputations , control values being obtained from fingers of the intact contralateral hand . when treated with regional intravenous guanethidine block ( rgb ) , some of the patients only had short-lasting relief of symptoms , whereas others experienced a more long-lasting beneficial effect . in the present long-term follow-up study the patients were re-examined 6 years after the rgb treatment . the aim was to investigate whether the earlier symptoms and signs persisted , and whether there were any differences in these respects , between patients with long-lasting ( group 1 ) and short-lasting relief of symptoms after rgb ( group 2 ) . all 24 patients were asked to answer a questionnaire concerning their clinical symptoms . in addition , 14 of them visited the laboratory for determination of thermal and vibration-induced pain thresholds . comparisons were made with values obtained at the first examination before rgb treatment and with values from 14 healthy subjects tested in a similar way on 2 occasions with an interval of 8 years . twenty of 23 patients reported that cold exposure still evoked stump pain . however , the threshold measurements showed that with time the patients had become more tolerant to thermal stimuli not only in the injured but also in the uninjured hand . a rise in pain threshold was also observed when vibration-induced pain was tested in the injured hand . there was no significant difference between groups 1 and 2 . similar changes in pain thresholds with time were not observed in the group of healthy control subjects . 
recurrent pain , illness intrusiveness , and quality of life in end-stage renal disease . repeated episodes of headache and muscle cramp were hypothesized to contribute to increased patient perceptions of illness intrusiveness and to compromised quality of life . standard measures of pain , illness intrusiveness , and quality of life were obtained on 2 occasions , each 6 weeks apart , from 100 end-stage renal disease patients . the impact of recurrent muscle cramps on perceptions of illness intrusiveness was conditional upon the occurrence of headache symptoms . perceptions of illness intrusiveness were significantly higher when both muscle cramp and headache symptoms occurred during one or more assessment intervals as compared to when muscle cramps or headaches , only , occurred . illness-related concerns and general feelings of pessimism were also significantly higher among patients who experienced recurrent episodes of muscle cramp . although no direct relations were observed between pain and other quality of life indicators , previous research has documented a relation between illness intrusiveness and quality of life . recurrent pain problems , thus , appear to contribute to increased illness intrusiveness and to reduced quality of life in end-stage renal disease patients . 
health locus of control , gender differences and adjustment to persistent pain . locus of control ( loc ) beliefs , long thought important in adjustment to persistent pain , were studied among 160 subjects ( 67 males and 93 females ) referred to a comprehensive pain rehabilitation program . the subscale structure of the multidimensional health locus of control ( mhlc ) was factorially replicated in our sample . three unique mhlc profile clusters were identified for both males and females . among men , cluster assignment was related to age only . the younger male patients reported a stronger internal attributional style . older male patients relied more heavily on both chance and powerful other factors . among women , cluster assignment was related to the use of coping strategies . for example , patients with high internal scores only , reflecting a strong internal orientation towards self-management of health care needs , were more likely to utilize information-seeking , self-blame , and threat minimization coping strategies than patients with high scores on both the internal and powerful other factors . it appears that the presence of both internal and powerful other health attributional styles is associated with less frequent use of cognitive self-management techniques . in understanding the loc scores it is important to rely on pattern analysis of scores . implications for clinical treatment are discussed . 
neonatal facial and cry responses to invasive and non-invasive procedures . evaluation of pain in neonates is difficult due to their limited means of communication . the aim was to determine whether behavioural reactions of cry and facial activity provoked by an invasive procedure could be discriminated from responses to non-invasive tactile events . thirty-six healthy full-term infants ( mean age 2.2 h ) received 3 procedures in counterbalanced order : intramuscular injection , application of triple dye to the umbilical stub , and rubbing thigh with alcohol . significant effects of procedure were found for total face activity and latency to face movement . a cluster of facial actions comprised of brow bulging , eyes squeezed shut , deepening of the naso-labial furrow and open mouth was associated most frequently with the invasive procedure . comparisons between the 2 non-invasive procedures showed more facial activity to thigh swabbing and least to application of triple dye to the umbilical cord . acoustic analysis of cry showed statistically significant differences across procedures only for latency to cry and cry duration for the group as a whole . however , babies who cried to two procedures showed higher pitch and greater intensity to the injection . there were no significant differences in melody , dysphonation , or jitter . methodological difficulties for investigators in this area were examined , including criteria for the selection of cries for analysis , and the logical and statistical challenges of contrasting cries induced by different conditions when some babies do not always cry . it was concluded that facial expression , in combination with short latency to onset of cry and long duration of first cry cycle typifies reaction to acute invasive procedures . 
treatment of reflex sympathetic dystrophy with topical capsaicin . case report . a 31-year-old woman with intractable reflex sympathetic dystrophy experienced nearly complete , though temporary , resolution of pain following 3 weeks of topical capsaicin . we propose that capsaicin may be a useful treatment for reflex sympathetic dystrophy , either by depleting substance p from primary afferent neurons that mediate allodynia , or by modulating sympathetic efferent activity . 
receptor changes in the spinal cord of sheep associated with exposure to chronic pain . there is evidence that post-injury hypersensitivity is partly due to changes in the central nervous system . sheep with foot rot were used to investigate the effect of chronic pain on some receptors thought to be involved in spinal nociceptive processing systems ( alpha 2 adrenoceptor and mu and delta opioid receptors ) . saturation binding studies showed a variable distribution of [ 3h ] clonidine ( alpha 2 adrenoceptor agonist ) in the spinal cord of normal sheep . the number of receptors ( bmax ) present in areas thought to be involved in nociceptive processing , laminae i and ii and lamina x , increased to 131 % and 169 % of control sheep values respectively in animals exposed to chronic pain . the affinity of the receptors ( kd ) , however , remained unchanged at approximately 2 nm . there was less [ 3h ] dago ( mu opioid agonist ) and [ 3h ] dpdpe ( delta opioid agonist ) binding in the sheep spinal cord . both opioid receptor types being mainly located in the superficial dorsal horn . the [ 3h ] dpdpe binding was unchanged in the sheep with foot rot , whilst the number ( bmax ) , but not the affinity , of the [ 3h ] dago binding sites increased in laminae i and ii in lame animals to 130 % of the control sheep values . hence , in animals in chronic pain , the number of alpha 2 adrenoceptors and mu opioid receptors increased mainly in areas of the sheep spinal cord associated with nociception . 
characterization of descending inhibition and facilitation from the nuclei reticularis gigantocellularis and gigantocellularis pars alpha in the rat . descending influences on the spinal nociceptive tail-flick ( tf ) reflex produced by focal electrical stimulation and glutamate microinjection in the nuclei reticularis gigantocellularis ( ngc ) and gigantocellularis pars alpha ( ngc alpha ) were examined and characterized in rats lightly anesthetized with pentobarbital . both inhibition and facilitation of the tf reflex were produced by electrical stimulation at identical sites in the ngc/ngc alpha ; glutamate microinjection only inhibited the tf reflex . the chronaxie of stimulation for inhibition of the tf reflex was 169 + / - 28 microseconds . inhibition of the tf reflex by stimulation was produced throughout the ngc and ngc alpha ; intensities of stimulation for inhibition were least in the ventral ngc and in the ngc alpha . at threshold intensities of stimulation , inhibition of the tf reflex did not outlast the period of stimulation . facilitation of the tf reflex was produced at many of the same sites at which stimulation inhibited the tf reflex , but always at lesser intensities of stimulation ( mean , 10 microa vs. 43 microa for inhibition , n = 25 ) . stimulation in the ngc/ngc alpha at threshold intensities for facilitation or inhibition of the tf reflex did not significantly affect blood pressure . strength-duration characterization of electrical stimulation and microinjection of glutamate into identical sites in the ngc and ngc alpha suggest that descending inhibition of the tf reflex results from activation of cell bodies in the ngc and ngc alpha . 
transcranial electrical stimulation with high frequency intermittent current ( limoge 's ) potentiates opiate-induced analgesia : blind studies . transcutaneous cranial electrical stimulation ( tces ) with high frequency ( 166 khz ) intermittent current ( 100 hz : limoge current ) has been used for several years in cardiac , thoracic , abdominal , urological and micro-surgery . the main benefits are a reduced requirement for analgesic drugs , especially opiates , and a long-lasting postoperative analgesia . we have confirmed these clinical observations in rats using the tail-flick latency ( tfl ) test to measure pain threshold . tces was not found to modify the pain threshold in drug-free rats , but it potentiated morphine-induced analgesia ( systemic injection ) . to obtain a maximal effect , the stimulation must be initiated 3 h before the drug injection and be maintained throughout the duration of its pharmacological action . tces potentitation was found to depend on the dose of the drug , the intensity of the current and the polarity of electrodes . these findings were confirmed by blind tests of the efficiency of tces on several opiate analgesic drugs currently used in human surgery ( morphine , fentanyl , alfentanil and dextromoramide ) . the analgesic effect of these 4 opiates ( tfl as % of baseline without or with tces ) were respectively : 174 % , 306 % ; 176 % , 336 % ; 160 % , 215 % ; and 267 % , 392 % . the results were obtained not only after systemic opiate treatment , but also after intracerebroventricular injection of morphine ( 10 micrograms ; analgesic effect 152 % , 207 % with tces ) suggesting that tces potentiation of opiate-induced analgesia is centrally mediated . 
induction , blockade and restoration of a persistent hypersensitive state . a new model of chronic hypersensitivity was developed in the rat by daily intraplantar administration of either prostaglandin e2 dopamine or isoprenaline , for a period of 2 weeks . like other hyperalgesic mediators , dibutyryl-camp , when applied to the paws , caused an acute effect but did not produce persistent hypersensitivity . the persistent hypersensitive state was not affected by a typical non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug ( indomethacin ) , was temporarily inhibited by a centrally acting analgesic ( morphine ) , was partially inhibited by a protein synthesis inhibitor ( cycloheximide ) and abolished by a single dose of peripherally acting analgesics such as dipyrone or n-methyl morphine . once the residual hypersensitivity had been abolished with dipyrone or n-methyl morphine , a small dose of prostaglandin e2 , dopamine or interleukin-1 beta , which in normal animals causes a mild and short lived effect , restored the persistent hypersensitive state . this ability to restore the persistent effect was not observed with intraplantar administration of dibutyryl-camp . our results suggest the existence of a peripheral trace of inflammatory pain , a phenomenon which may be associated with stimulation of neuronal adenylate cyclase and protein synthesis . this concept may explain part of the puzzle of chronic inflammatory pain and lead to the development of new analgesics . 
the influence of warning signal timing and cognitive preparation on the aversiveness of electric shock . many medical and dental procedures are noxious . finding an optimal way of warning patients concerning the aversive procedures could help them to cope better . a model for the effective use of a warning signal in coping with pain posited that a person needs enough time to be able to react and should possess the skills necessary to utilize the time effectively . it was felt that a very short warning period , e.g. , 5 sec , could not be long enough , while a 180 sec warning period would in and of itself become aversive . reactions to electric shock were obtained from 36 paid , volunteer subjects who were each tested on a within-subject , counterbalanced order at 4 different warning periods : 5 , 30 , 60 , and 180 sec . the subjects were divided into 3 groups : ( 1 ) the experimental group was provided with a pretested self-instructional booklet to learn a variety of pain control techniques ; ( 2 ) the placebo group was provided with a self-instructional booklet on citizenship ; ( 3 ) the control group waited quietly for 13 min . no significant results were obtained for the different pain-coping conditions . significant differences , however , were obtained for the various warning periods . maximum skin resistance changes , higher ratings of pain and of anxiety were obtained for the 60 and 180 compared to the 5 and 30 sec warning periods . maximum heart rate was obtained for the 30 sec warning . results were discussed in terms of the psychological meaning of the various measures as well as their clinical implications . 
efficacy of methylphenidate among mentally retarded children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder . twelve children with iq scores of 50 to 74 ( educable mental retardation ) who met rigorous diagnostic criteria for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder participated in a double-blind crossover study of the efficacy of two doses of methylphenidate compared with placebo . dependent measures included behavioral ratings , classroom work output , laboratory measures of attention and learning , and direct observations of social behavior . improvement with medication on the conners hyperactivity index was observed in 75 % of subjects . significant increases in work output , on-task behavior , and attentional skills were associated with methylphenidate . however , gains in measures of attention were not associated with improvement in learning , as measured by a paired associate learning task . additionally , no significant increases in appropriate social interactions during free play were associated with methylphenidate . the results suggest that mentally retarded children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder respond to methylphenidate at similar rates and in similar domains to that of the nonretarded population . 
quantifying language development from birth to 3 years using the early language milestone scale . a point-scoring technique for the early language milestone scale is described . normative data based on the original 1982 cross-sectional sample and validation data based on a separate longitudinal sample are presented . mean early language milestone scale point scores , standard deviations , and percentile equivalents for raw point scores are presented for all ages from birth to 36 months . correlations between point scores on the early language milestone scale and scores on other standardized developmental tests such as the stanford-binet intelligence scale , the peabody picture vocabulary test , and the illinois test of psycholinguistic abilities are presented . the clinical and research advantages of this point-scoring technique are presented and compared with the original pass/fail scoring method . 
unilateral hydrocephalus in adults . the authors report 14 cases of unilateral hydrocephalus in adults . headache was the most common presenting symptom . unilateral hydrocephalus was documented in each patient with computed tomography scans ; magnetic resonance imaging was also used in seven patients in the latter part of the series . unilateral hydrocephalus was caused by tumor ( seven patients ) , venous angioma ( one patient ) , ependymal cyst ( one patient ) , postinflammatory gliosis ( one patient ) , and was idiopathic in four patients . the primary surgical treatment was craniotomy with fenestration of the septum pellucidum , which relieved symptoms in eight of nine patients for whom long-term follow-up data were available . 
cerebrospinal fluid endothelin-1 and endothelin-3 levels in normal and neurosurgical patients : a clinical study and literature review . endothelins are a family of structurally related , potent , long-lasting vasoconstrictor peptides . there are no established normal human levels of endothelin-1 or endothelin-3 in the cerebrospinal fluid . we measured cerebrospinal fluid endothelin-1 and endothelin-3 levels in five groups of patients : normal controls , patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage and cerebral vasospasm , patients with severe head injuries , patients undergoing temporal lobectomy for intractable epilepsy , and a patient with a gunshot injury to the thoracic spine . endothelin-3 levels were significantly elevated in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage and may participate in cerebral vasospasm and subsequent neurologic deterioration . 
familial trigeminal neuralgia and charcot-marie-tooth neuropathy . report of two families and review . typical trigeminal neuralgia has occasionally occurred in multiple members of the same family over several generations . the clinical features of such cases , including the increased incidence in females , and the absence of other apparent hereditary , neurologic , metabolic , or structural abnormalities were identical to those of sporadic cases . more rarely , familial trigeminal neuralgia has been described in the setting of hereditary peripheral neuropathy , especially charcot-marie-tooth disease . we describe patients from two different families with charcot-marie-tooth disease and medically intractable trigeminal neuralgia . both patients were successfully treated by percutaneous retrogasserian glycerol rhizolysis . the occurrence of cranial nerve symptoms in patients with demyelinating peripheral neuropathies is discussed in light of the current hypotheses regarding the etiology of trigeminal neuralgia . 
reversal of chronic hepatic encephalopathy by colonic exclusion : poor correlation with blood gaba levels . previous studies have suggested that the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid ( gaba ) is a key factor in the syndrome of portasystemic encephalopathy . we report the case of a patient with medically intractable portasytemic encephalopathy after portacaval shunt who had marked clinical improvement after creation of an end ileostomy . plasma gaba and serum ammonia levels were measured before and after ileostomy . although the clinical syndrome and the eeg improved markedly after the ileostomy , the plasma gaba levels remained markedly elevated . preoperative and postoperative gaba levels were 865 and 633 pmol/ml , respectively ( nl = 100-180 pmol/ml ) . our findings confirm previous reports of the efficacy of colonic exclusion in patients with intractable portasystemic encephalopathy . however , our results conflict with the hypothesis that gaba itself is the key mediator of the syndrome . 
surgical correction of the snapping iliopsoas tendon . eighteen patients with 20 symptomatic hips underwent lengthening of the iliopsoas tendon for persistent painful snapping of this " internal " variety of snapping hip . we referred to the pathologic , painful snapping of the iliopsoas in the deep anterior groin as the " internal " snapping hip . this is in contrast to the more common and better-known " external " snapping that involves the greater trochanter and its overlying soft tissues . the results of our iliopsoas lengthening procedure are presented here . lengthening of the iliopsoas tendon was accomplished by step cutting of the tendinous portion of the iliopsoas . the pathoanatomy of this poorly understood symptom complex was described in 1984 paper from this institution and is reviewed here . iliopsoas bursography demonstrated a sudden jerking movement of the iliopsoas tendon between the anterior inferior iliac spine and iliopectineal eminence , synchronous with the patient 's pain and often accompanied by an audible snap . the average preoperative duration of symptoms was 2.9 years , and the average length of postoperative followup was 25 months . all patients , except one , had a marked reduction in the frequency of snapping after tendon lengthening , and 14 of 20 hips had no snapping postoperatively . of the six patients who had recurrence of snapping , all but one stated that this occurred much less frequently and was much less painful compared to the preoperative state . two hips required reoperation . postoperatively , only three patients complained of subjective weakness , and most patients were unlimited in physical activity with return to activities such as competitive football , pole vaulting , and long-distance running . 
anteromedial tibial tubercle transfer without bone graft . we followed 30 patients for more than 2 years after anteromedial tibial tubercle transfer for persistent patellofemoral pain associated with patellar articular degeneration . twelve of these patients were followed more than 5 years . we report 93 % good and excellent results subjectively and 89 % good and excellent results objectively . the quality of improvement was sustained in all 12 of the patients who were evaluated again after more than 5 years from surgery . when examined separately , 75 % of those patients with advanced patellar arthrosis achieved a good result ; none of these patients achieved an excellent result . postoperative continuous passive motion has markedly reduced the incidence of stiffness . serious complications such as compartment syndrome , infection , and skin slough were avoided completely in 51 consecutive cases . patellofemoral contact pressure studies in five cadaver knees have shown that anteromedial tibial tubercle transfer can provide substantial reduction of patellofemoral contact stress while helping to balance medial and lateral facet pressures . this surgical procedure is mechanically and clinically successful for alleviating intractable pain related to patellar malalignment and articular degeneration . this procedure enables the majority of appropriately selected patients with malalignment and patellar articular degeneration to resume increased levels of activity with substantially diminished pain . 
arterial abnormalities of the hand in athletes . vascular lesions of the hand may be seen in athletes exposed to repetitive blunt trauma . thirteen athletes seen from 1983 to 1988 experienced symptoms related to hand ischemia . nine were professional baseball catchers . the majority of patients complained of chronic symptoms , including cold hypersensitivity ( four patients ) , finger numbness ( one ) , finger coolness ( three ) , and finger blanching ( three ) . two patients had acute symptoms with sudden posttraumatic hand ischemia with finger and palmar pain . diagnosis was established by history and physical examination and confirmed by noninvasive testing . testing included use of doppler examination and cold tolerance examination with thermistors . two athletes required angiographic evaluation because of severe ischemia and continuous pain . all patients in this group were managed nonoperatively . those with chronic complaints were counseled regarding cold avoidance and instructed to increase their glove padding . the two patients with acute symptoms required vasodilator ( papaverine chloride ) infusion , followed by intravenous heparin and dextran . all baseball catchers returned to their sport with dissipation of symptoms . 
community hospital carotid endarterectomy in patients over age 75 . we compared the prevalence of stroke and death in 133 patients aged 75 and older in whom 170 carotid endarterectomies were performed with that in 501 patients less than age 75 in whom 640 carotid endarterectomies were performed . there were three strokes ( 2 % ) in patients aged 75 and older and nine strokes ( 1 % ) in younger patients ( p = 0.7 ) . there were 8 deaths ( 5 % ) in patients aged 75 and older and 14 deaths ( 2 % ) in younger patients ( p = 0.1 ) . after controlling for the possible confounding effects of diabetes , prior stroke , history of angina , prior carotid artery disease , previous vascular surgery , history of myocardial infarction , preoperative hypertension requiring medication , and female gender , a logistic regression model showed that patients aged 75 and older were no more likely to have a stroke or death than patients under age 75 . we conclude that age alone is not a contraindication to the safe performance of carotid endarterectomy in the community hospital . 
alkalinisation of prilocaine for intravenous regional anaesthesia . suitability for clinical use . eighty unpremedicated patients undergoing day-case hand surgery under intravenous regional anaesthesia were randomly allocated to receive , in a double-blind study , either 40 ml 0.75 % prilocaine hydrochloride , with 5 ml 8.4 % sodium bicarbonate or 5 ml 0.9 % saline . the alkalinised group had significantly less pain on injection ( p = 0.0045 ) , during surgery ( p = 0.0074 ) and 5 minutes after the tourniquet was deflated ( p = 0.0027 ) . the time elapsed between insertion of the block and commencement of surgery was not affected . 
ph-adjustment and discomfort caused by the intradermal injection of lignocaine [ published erratum appears in anaesthesia 1991 mar ; 46 ( 3 ) :242 ] one hundred adult day-case patients who required intravenous access had cannulae inserted using local anaesthesia with 1 % lignocaine , 1 % lignocaine with adrenaline or the corresponding ph-adjusted solutions . the local anaesthetic solutions were modified by the addition of 1 ml 8.4 % sodium bicarbonate to 10 ml lignocaine . pain scores at different stages of cannulation were noted and showed a significant reduction after use of ph-adjusted solutions ( p less than 0.02 for the plain lignocaine , and less than 0.001 for the lignocaine with adrenaline ) . modification of the ph of lignocaine solutions by the addition of sodium bicarbonate is a simple method significantly to reduce the discomfort caused by the infiltration of the local anaesthetic . 
nasal and oral flow-volume loops in normal subjects and patients with obstructive sleep apnea . because flow-volume loops ( fvls ) are clinically useful in evaluating upper airway ( ua ) obstruction and the fact that patency of the nasopharyngeal ventilatory pathway is important to the prevention of obstructive sleep apnea ( osa ) , the present study examined the role of nasal compared with oral fvls in evaluating patients with osa . fourteen obese male patients 56 + / - 3 yr of age with a mean apnea plus hypopnea index ( ahi ) of 51 + / - 9/h were studied along with 14 nonobese , healthy , age - and sex-matched control subjects whose mean ahi was 6 + / - 1/h . nasal and oral fvls obtained in the normal subjects indicated the nose behaved like a variable resistor , with flow limitation during inspiration but not during expiration . in the patient group , flow limitation was observed during expiration as well as inspiration indicating nondistensibility of the nasopharyngeal ventilatory pathway in the patients compared to the control subjects . a change in body position from upright to supine in the osa group was associated with small reductions in expiratory but not inspiratory flow rates . the area under the nasal supine flow-volume loop ( fvlanasup ) was found to be highly correlated with awake resting pao2 ( r = 0.80 ) and paco2 ( r = -0.83 ) in the patient group . in addition , multiple linear regression analysis revealed that pao2 and the area under the nasal fvls independently contributed to the prediction of ahi with a multiple r of 0.89 . these results suggest that limitations to ventilation via the nasopharynx may significantly influence both gas exchange and the frequency of sleep-disordered breathing in patients with osa . 
the south karelia air pollution study . the effects of malodorous sulfur compounds from pulp mills on respiratory and other symptoms . the paper mills in south karelia , the southeast part of finland , are responsible for releasing a substantial amount of malodorous sulfur compounds such as hydrogen sulfide ( h2s ) , methyl mercaptan ( ch3sh ) , and methyl sulfides [ ( ch3 ) 2s and ( ch3 ) 2s2 ] , into ambient air . in the most polluted residential area the annual mean concentrations of hydrogen sulfide and methyl mercaptan are estimated to be 8 and 2 to 5 micrograms/m3 and the highest daily average concentration 100 and 50 micrograms/m3 . the annual mean and highest daily concentrations of sulfur dioxide ( so2 ) are very low . we studied the effects of malodorous sulfur compounds on eye , nasal and respiratory symptoms , and headache in adults . a cross-sectional self-administered questionnaire was distributed in february 1987 and responded to by 488 adults living in a severely ( n = 198 ) , a moderately ( n = 204 ) , and a nonpolluted community ( n = 86 ) . this included questions about occurrence of the symptoms of interest during the previous 4 wk and 12 months and individual , behavioral , and other environmental determinants of the symptoms . the response rate was 83 % . the odds ratios ( or ) for symptoms experienced often or constantly in severely versus nonpolluted and moderately versus nonpolluted communities were estimated in logistic regression analysis controlling potential confounders . the odds ratios for eye ( moderate exposure or 11.70 , cl95 % 2.33 to 58.65 ; severe exposure or 11.78 , cl95 % 2.35 to 59.09 ) and nasal symptoms ( or 2.01 , cl95 % 0.97 to 4.15 ; or 2.19 , cl95 % 1.06 to 4.55 ) and cough ( or 1.89 , cl95 % 0.61 to 5.86 ; or 3.06 , cl95 % 1.02 to 9.29 ) during the previous 12 months were increased , with a dose-response pattern . 
brain microemboli during cardiac surgery or aortography we have observed many focal dilatations or very small aneurysms in terminal arterioles and capillaries of 4 of 5 patients and 6 dogs who had recently undergone cardiopulmonary bypass . a smaller number of sausagelike dilatations distended medium-sized arterioles . two other patients had a small number of the same microvascular changes following proximal aortography . thirty-four patients and 6 dogs not undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass had none . ( a 35th patient who had not undergone cardiopulmonary bypass or aortography showed a small number of dilatations ; mediastinal air was a suggested source . ) some of the dilatations exhibited various forms of birefringence . because most of the dilatations appear empty , we speculate that they are the sites of gas bubbles or fat emboli that have been removed by the solvents used in processing . these microvascular events , occurring only in conjunction with major arterial interventions , may be the anatomical correlate of the neurological deficits or moderate to severe intellectual dysfunction seen in at least 24 % of patients after cardiac surgical procedures assisted by cardiopulmonary bypass . 
synaptic transmission in human neocortex removed for treatment of intractable epilepsy in children . synaptic transmission to pyramidal cells was studied in slices of neocortex resected from infants and children ( n = 10 , age 8 months to 13 years ) undergoing surgical treatment for intractable epilepsy . most specimens were from the least abnormal area of the resection . stable intracellular recordings could be obtained for up to 8 hours . most of the recorded neurons had electrophysiological characteristics similar to those of regular-firing pyramidal cells and were in layers iii to v , which was confirmed by intracellular staining with lucifer yellow . local extracellular stimulation evoked a sequence of excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials . after application of the gamma-aminobutyric acid antagonist , bicuculline ( 10-30 microm ) , extracellular stimulation induced large excitatory postsynaptic potentials and epileptiform bursts . spontaneous bursts occasionally occurred in bicuculline . this effect of bicuculline was observed in all the tissue samples , even those from infant patients ( n = 4 , age 8-16 months ) . kynurenic acid depressed or abolished both spontaneous and stimulation-induced bursts . the competitive antagonist for n-methyl-d-aspartate receptors , dl-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid decreased the duration of bicuculline-induced bursts . these data provide evidence that , similar to rat and cat neocortex , excitatory and inhibitory amino acids are important transmitters to pyramidal cells in immature human neocortex . 
treatment of spasticity with botulinum toxin : a double-blind study . we studied the effect of botulinum-a toxin on spasticity of the leg adductors in 9 patients who were either chair-bound or bed-bound with chronic stable multiple sclerosis . we injected botulinum toxin ( 400 mouse units ) or placebo into the adductor muscles in a randomized , crossover , double-blind design . two physicians , who were unaware of the treatment order , used an objective rating scale and independently assessed the patients ; interobserver correlation was excellent ( r = 0.93-0 .81 ) . we found that botulinum toxin produced a significant reduction in spasticity ( p = 0.009 ) and a significant improvement in the ease of nursing care ( p = 0.009 ) . there were no adverse effects during this short-term trial . this is the first demonstration of the beneficial effect of botulinum toxin on focal spastic muscle contractions . 
peripheral neuropathy associated with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . in 1989 , the centers for disease control recognized the existence of an epidemic illness characterized by myalgia and eosinophilia in individuals taking preparations containing l-tryptophan . we evaluated 3 patients with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome who presented with subacute progressive neuropathies . the neuropathies were predominantly motor and maximal in the lower extremities . two patients were confined to a wheelchair and one was ventilator-dependent and bedridden . sensory loss predominantly involved small fiber modalities . electrophysiological studies showed multifocal marked conduction slowing and conduction block indicating segmental demyelination , with associated axonal degeneration that was accentuated distally . examination of sural nerve biopsy specimens demonstrated axonal degeneration in all 3 patients and perivascular infiltrates in 2 . levels of quinolinic acid , a neurotoxic metabolite of l-tryptophan , were elevated in the cerebrospinal fluid in the 2 patients in whom it was measured . the cause of the neuropathy is unknown but may include immune mechanisms or toxicity of eosinophils , l-tryptophan , its metabolic products , or contaminants within l-tryptophan preparations . 
adult phosphorylase b kinase deficiency . phosphorylase b kinase deficiency affecting muscle has been observed infrequently in children with weakness and hepatomegaly , and in 2 adults with cramps on exertion . we observed 2 additional adults with phosphorylase b kinase deficiency : patient 1 , aged 58 , had progressive , predominantly distal weakness since age 46 but no cramps on exertion ; patient 2 , aged 26 , had cramps on exertion since age 6 but no weakness . lactate production on ischemic exercise was impaired only in patient 1 . the serum creatine kinase level was elevated in both . muscle specimens showed focal glycogen excess in both , and a necrotizing myopathy and mild denervation atrophy in patient 1 . muscle phosphorylase b kinase activity was 0.5 % and 8.9 % of the lowest control value in patients 1 and 2 , respectively ; erythrocyte phosphorylase b kinase activity was normal in both ; liver phosphorylase b kinase activity , measured in patient 1 , was also normal . other glycolytic enzymes in muscle were preserved in both . 
nmda antagonists potentiate antiparkinsonian actions of l-dopa in monoamine-depleted rats . systemically administered n-methyl-d-aspartate ( nmda ) antagonists , mk-801 ( ( + ) 5-methyl-10 ,11 - dihydro-5h-dibenzo ( a , d ) cyclohepten-5 ,10 - imine maleate ) and cpp ( 3 - [ ( + - ) -2 - carboxypiperazin-4-yl ] - propyl-1-phosphonate ) , potentiate the ability of l-dopa ( l-3 ,4 - dihydroxyphenylalanine ) to reverse akinesia and to alleviate muscular rigidity in monoamine-depleted rats . on the basis of these findings , it is proposed that nmda antagonists may be beneficial as adjunctive treatment in the therapy of parkinson 's disease . cpp locally injected into the subthalamic nucleus , entopeduncular nucleus -- the rat homologue of the internal pallidal segment -- or substantia nigra pars reticulata of monoamine-depleted rats stimulates locomotor activity and alleviates rigidity , whereas local microinjection of cpp into the neostriatum is ineffective . these results make it unlikely that the neostriatum is the site of the antiparkinsonian action of nmda antagonists in monoamine-depleted rats , whereas the subthalamic nucleus , internal pallidal segment , and substantia nigra pars reticulata appear to be important for the effects of nmda antagonists . 
cerebrospinal fluid neopterin in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection . we evaluated cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) concentrations of neopterin , a putative marker of activated macrophages , in 97 subjects infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 who had a spectrum of neurological complications . the highest csf neopterin concentrations occurred in those with neurological opportunistic infections , primary central nervous systems lymphoma , and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) dementia complex . in general , the csf concentration of neopterin was independent of csf cell count and blood-brain barrier disruption to albumin . in the patients with aids dementia complex , csf neopterin concentrations correlated with severity of disease and decreased in conjunction with clinical improvement following treatment with zidovudine . these results suggest that csf neopterin , although not disease-specific , may be useful as a surrogate marker for the presence of aids dementia complex and its response to antiviral therapy . 
alpha 1-antichymotrypsin as a possible biochemical marker for alzheimer-type dementia . we measured serum alpha 1-antichymotrypsin levels in 38 patients with alzheimer-type dementia , 89 control subjects , 2 subjects with down 's syndrome , 20 with vascular dementia , 18 with parkinson 's disease , 14 with spinocerebellar degeneration , 15 with cerebrovascular disease without dementia , and 14 with duchenne muscular dystrophy . cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin were also measured in 15 patients with alzheimer-type dementia , 26 control subjects , 6 with vascular dementia , 7 with cerebrovascular disorder , and 11 with degenerative disorders . in control subjects , there were no age-related changes or sex differences . serum and csf levels were significantly and specifically higher in patients with alzheimer-type dementia than in other subjects ( serum , p less than 0.001 ; csf , p less than 0.05 ) . serum levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin were significantly elevated in the early stage of alzheimer-type dementia , whereas there was no definite correlation between serum levels and the degree of dementia . csf levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin tended to parallel the severity of dementia . serum levels were not correlated with csf levels . these data indicate that serum and csf levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin might be independently upregulated in alzheimer-type dementia . we concluded that the measurement of serum levels of alpha 1-antichymotrypsin could be useful as a screening marker for alzheimer-type dementia . in addition , csf levels also could be a useful marker for alzheimer-type dementia , because they might reflect the state of dementia . 
failure of nine-month phenobarbital administration to reverse amygdaloid-kindled seizure susceptibility in cats . upon completion of left amygdaloid kindling , 4 cats underwent long-term phenobarbital administration during the subsequent 5 - to 9-month rest period . plasma phenobarbital levels were maintained above 15 to 20 micrograms/ml and were restimulated following plasma phenobarbital washout . three cats served as nonmedicated controls . all 7 cats were subjected to repeated 6-hour sleep monitoring for observation of interictal discharges , which were observed most often in the immediate postictal period . their frequency decreased gradually throughout the experiment in both the medicated and control animals , but they never completely disappeared except from the contralateral amygdala in 1 medicated animal . upon primary site restimulation , all of the medicated animals responded with a generalized convulsion once the afterdischarge was induced . when these animals underwent secondary-site amygdaloid kindling , 3 showed a positive transfer effect . the findings suggest that although phenobarbital is a potent anticonvulsant , it has little effect on the acquired seizure susceptibility of previously amygdaloid kindled cats . 
aggravation of myasthenia gravis by erythromycin . erythromycin is not currently recognized as causing clinical aggravation of myasthenia gravis . we report the case of a patient who experienced exacerbations of myasthenia gravis subsequent to each of several doses of intravenous erythromycin . we suggest that erythromycin can cause clinical worsening in patients with disease of the neuromuscular junction . 
familial creutzfeldt-jakob disease without periodic eeg activity . four members of a kindred with creutzfeldt-jakob disease are reported , in whom myoclonus did not develop and in whom serial electroencephalograms performed late in their illness failed to show periodic sharp wave complexes . otherwise , the patients ' disease duration , clinical features , and neuropathological findings were similar to those described in sporadic cases of creutzfeldt-jakob disease . our findings and those reported by others suggest that periodic electroencephalographic activity may be rare in familial forms of creutzfeldt-jakob disease , as it is in other slow transmissible encephalopathies . 
fetal homotransplants ( ventral mesencephalon and adrenal tissue ) to the striatum of parkinsonian subjects . fetal ventral mesencephalon and fetal adrenal tissue grafted to the caudate nucleus of four and three parkinsonian patients , respectively , have been shown to be an alternative treatment for the amelioration of the signs of the disease . the ventral mesencephalon patients had a significant amelioration of rigidity , bradykinesia , postural imbalance , gait disturbance , and facial expression . three of these four patients have returned to work . the fatal adrenal group only showed amelioration of rigidity and bradykinesia . though these patients are now able to perform their basic daily living activities , and one of them has renewed her household tasks , the other two have not yet been able to return to work . the differences observed between the ventral mesencephalon - and the fetal adrenal-transplanted patients may be related to the heterogeneity of their disease and/or the type of graft implanted . however encouraging our results may be , this experimental procedure obviously requires further studies , and should not be practiced outside of highly qualified clinical research centers . 
autologous transplantation of adrenal medulla in parkinson 's disease . 18-month results . eighteen of 19 patients who underwent autologous adrenal medullary transplantation to the right caudate nucleus have been followed up for 18 months . during the course of this study , a statistically significant improvement was noted in percent " on " time , percent " on " time without dyskinesia , activity of daily living ( adl ) scores during the " on " stages , and adl , motor , and schwab-england scores during the " off " stages . benefits tended to be maximal at 6 months and to gradually lessen thereafter , although statistically significant improvement in comparison with baseline was still present at 18 months for adl , motor , and hoehn-yahr scores during the " off " stages . almost all parameters had deteriorated by 18 months compared with 12 months , including those remaining significantly improved in comparison with baseline . these patterns were similar for each of the three participating centers . complications were largely restricted to the perioperative period . 
white matter hyperintensities in dementia of alzheimer 's type and in healthy subjects without cerebrovascular risk factors . a magnetic resonance imaging study . t2-weighted ( 0.5 t ) magnetic resonance images were used to study the prevalence of subcortical white matter hyperintensities ( wmhis ) in 22 patients with dementia of alzheimer 's type ( dat ) , 20 age-matched older healthy control subjects , and 10 younger healthy control subjects . exclusionary criteria for all groups included cerebrovascular risk factors . all subjects had hachinski ischemic index scores of less than 2 and computed tomographic scans showing no infarct . the wmhis were classified as periventricular wmhis or deep wmhis and graded 0 through 3 ( 0 indicated absent , and 3 , severe ) . for the group with dat and older control subjects , periventricular wmhis and deep wmhis were graded 2 or 3 in fewer than 17 % and 27 % of subjects , respectively , whereas in the younger control subjects , all ratings were grade 1 or less . serum cholesterol and systolic blood pressure values , although within the normal range , were elevated significantly in older control subjects when compared with those in younger control subjects . no significant differences in wmhi ratings , blood pressure , cholesterol , or triglyceride levels were found between patients with dat and age-matched control subjects . systolic blood pressure levels correlated with the severity of periventricular wmhis only in older control subjects . age correlated with periventricular wmhis and deep wmhis within both the older control subjects and the patients with dat . there was no significant correlation between wmhis and the severity of dementia in the group with dat . these results suggest that , in subjects screened for cerebrovascular risk factors , wmhis are rare and occur with identical frequency in patients with dat as in age-matched healthy control subjects . 
clinical and positron emission tomographic studies in the ' extrapyramidal syndrome ' of dementia of the alzheimer type . extrapyramidal signs , particularly rigidity and tremor , have been reported in a proportion of patients with dementia of the alzheimer type . to test the hypothesis that these extrapyramidal signs are similar clinically and neurochemically to the extrapyramidal signs of parkinson 's disease , a group of 20 patients satisfying clinical criteria for probable alzheimer 's disease were studied and assessed clinically for the presence of rigidity , tremor , and bradykinesia . in those patients with extrapyramidal signs , qualitative differences were observed between the signs in these patients and in subjects with parkinson 's disease . fifteen of 20 patients underwent fluoro-18-dopa scans , which showed no significant difference in fluoro-18-dopa uptake into the caudate and putamen between normal subjects and the rigid and nonrigid patients with alzheimer 's disease , in contrast to the marked reduction in fluoro-18-dopa uptake into the putamen that is observed in parkinson 's disease . this provides clinical and in vivo neurochemical support for the hypothesis that extranigral factors may be involved in the pathogenesis of rigidity in alzheimer 's disease . 
acquired childhood aphasia . outcome 1 year after onset . the effects of the variables age at onset , cause , severity and bilaterality of lesion , and type of aphasia on course and outcome were investigated in a group of 28 aphasic children . analysis of spontaneous speech and tests of auditory verbal comprehension were used to determine the presence of aphasia . the severity of the cerebral lesion was assessed using a rating scale for computed tomographic scans . most of the children had not recovered completely 1 year after onset . recovery was significantly different according to etiological categories . complete recovery was seen in the majority of traumatic cases . 
primary progressive aphasia . longitudinal course , neuropsychological profile , and language features . four patients with the clinical syndrome of primary progressive aphasia and a nonfluent aphasia profile were followed up over a period of 3 to 5 years . extensive neuropsychological data for three patients revealed a progressive , quantitative decline of language with relative stability of memory , visuospatial skills , and reasoning . comportment and most activities of daily living were preserved even when speech was unintelligible . although several aphasia types may be associated with primary progressive aphasia , a nonfluent aphasia profile and phonemic paraphasic errors are most useful in differentiating it from the much more common clinical syndrome , " probable alzheimer 's disease . " the clinicopathological correlates of probable alzheimer 's disease differ from those associated with primary progressive aphasia . therefore , the clinical distinction between the two syndromes may be important for predicting the underlying pathophysiologic changes during the life of the patient . 
plasticity in the aging brain . reversibility of anatomic , metabolic , and cognitive deficits in normal-pressure hydrocephalus following shunt surgery . the course of idiopathic normal-pressure hydrocephalus was studied in a 78-year-old woman with a 4-year history of progressive dementia who underwent neuropsychologic testing , quantitative x-ray computed tomography , magnetic resonance imaging , and positron emission tomography with fludeoxyglucose f 18 to measure rates of regional cerebral glucose utilization . preshunt cognitive testing demonstrated progressive deterioration during 2 years , and positron emission tomography showed significant reductions in regional cerebral glucose utilization of 34 % to 49 % as compared with age - and sex-matched control subjects in frontal , temporal , parietal , and whole brain regions . periodic testing , carried out during a 2-year period after shunt surgery , showed steady improvement in clinical status . parallel to the clinical changes , there was a significant reversal in neuropsychologic test scores with increased brain volume and increased regional cerebral glucose utilization in several brain regions . these results documented the considerable potential for recovery of compromised brain function in older subjects even after 4 years of progressive brain disease . 
effects of physostigmine on spatial attention in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy . we tested patients with progressive supranuclear palsy and control subjects on a task of visuopatial attention . targets preceded by cues on the same side were termed validly cued ; and those on the opposite side , invalidly cued . for all subjects , validly cued targets were responded to faster than those that were invalidly cued . the difference between reaction times for invalidly and validly cued targets , which is hypothesized to measure attentional movement , was significantly increased for the patients . the performance of the controls on certain neuropsychological tests was correlated with their attentional ability . these correlations were altered by progressive supranuclear palsy . physostigmine treatment of the patients induced a speeding of responses to invalidly cued targets as a function of the duration of the disease . these studies show defects in cognition and attention in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy and demonstrate that physostigmine reduces some of the abnormal visual attentional performance . 
cumulative aids incidence and altered mortality from bacterial infections . to determine whether populations with high cumulative incidence of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) experienced increased deaths from sepsis , central nervous system abscess , or endocarditis , new jersey aids patients were grouped according to their age , sex , race , and residence-specific cumulative incidence of aids since the onset of the aids epidemic . between 1980 and 1986 , among 25-44 year olds in the highest cumulative incidence group for aids , sepsis mortality increased from 3.3 to 15.2 deaths/100 ,000 / year , an increase of 11.9 deaths/100 ,000 / year ( 95 % confidence interval ( 6.9 , 17.0 ) deaths/100 ,000 / year ) ; mortality from central nervous system abscesses increased from zero to 1.7 ( 0.1 , 3.2 ) deaths/100 ,000 / year ; and mortality from endocarditis increased from 0.8 deaths/100 ,000 / year to 2.4 deaths/100 ,000 / year , an increase of 1.6 ( -0.5 , 3.7 ) deaths/100 ,000 / year . age-matched new jersey patient populations with low cumulative incidence of aids did not sustain a similar increase . the hiv disease-associated increase in sepsis mortality among young populations represents a new component of the substantial increase in u.s. sepsis mortality that occurred over the last two decades , but was previously limited to older populations . 
safety , stability , and effectiveness of immunoadsorption under membrane plasmapheresis treatment for myasthenia gravis . nine patients ( five women and four men , average age 50.4 years ) with refractory myasthenia gravis ( mg ) underwent thymectomy and were then treated with immunoadsorption under membrane plasmaphersis ( iap ) . thymic histology showed hyperplasia in nine patients . an immunoadsorption column ( asahi , med , co ) was made with tryptophan . a plasouto 1,000 ( asahi , med , co ) was used as the machine . the plasma separator was a first filter ( asahi , med , co ) , and immunoadsorption columns were used for plasma perfusion . iap treatment was performed three times weekly for a total of six times , after which iap was done every 3 weeks . the removal rate of anti-ach-r titer was 54 + / - 12 % ; igg , iga , and igm levels improved in nine of nine patients after iap treatment , and improvement of gait disturbances were seen in two of two . muscle strength improved in all nine patients , whereas speech disturbances improved in two of three . eye ptosis improved in nine of nine patients . subjective improvement was reported by nine of nine patients , and none had severe side effects with iap . in conclusion , iap is a safe , stable , effective , and clinically useful treatment . for mg . 
an extracorporeal perfusion system to bridge pediatric liver transplant candidates . an extracorporeal liver perfusion system was designed to maintain cadaver livers in an oxygenated , normothermic state for bridging procedures for hepatic transplantation . nonpulsatile high flow and pulsatile low flow blood are supplied to the portal venous ( pv ) and hepatic arterial ( ha ) circulations . controlled low blood flow ( 5-10 cc/kg [ patient ] / min ) is exchanged between the high flow extracorporeal perfusion circuit ( 1 cc/g [ liver ] / min ) and the patient . the system was evaluated in perfusions of fresh , excised pig livers ( n = 5 ) . the average oxygen consumption was 9 + / - 3 microliters/g/min , and bile production averaged 4.7 microliters/g/hr . perfusion pressures and flows were normal in both the ha and pv circulations for about 4 hr . pressures then gradually rose , especially in the ha circulation , causing flow to decrease , with subsequent mottling and discoloration of the liver . red blood cell , platelet , and white blood cell counts fell continuously . maintenance of liver function was assessed by clearance of an 80 mg taurocholic acid challenge . an average of 56 % of injected acid was cleared from the perfused livers ( n = 5 ) in the first half hour , compared with 90 % and 25 % for the in situ ( n = 3 ) and unperfused ( n = 3 ) control livers , respectively . the system consistently maintained livers in a moderately well functioning state through the first 4 hr of perfusion . adequate support of animals with induced hepatic failure must now be demonstrated . 
aids for visual impairment . this article provides only a flavour of the type and range of aids available to the visually impaired person . many other aids for leisure , learning , and daily living are illustrated in the rnib equipment and games catalogue . 
gallbladder surgery following cholecystlithotripsy : suggested guidelines for treatment twenty-three of 229 symptomatic patients undergoing cholecystlithotripsy underwent surgical intervention : 22 of the patients had cholecystectomy performed ( five also undergoing choledochotomy ) and one patient had a cholecystostomy . of these 23 patients , five were lithotripsy failures , five developed acute pancreatitis , one had acute cholecystitis , and one had cholangitis . one patient had her gallbladder removed incidentally at the time of surgery for a bleeding gastric ulcer . ten patients underwent surgery for recurrent biliary pain , probably related to fragment passage via the cystic duct . we suggest that up to 16 of these 23 patients did not necessarily require cholecystectomy , i.e. five patients with pancreatitis , one patient with cholangitis and ten patients with recurrent biliary colic . conservative and/or endoscopic management may be successful in the first instance to allow further treatment with lithotripsy in the majority of patients . if , however , the expertise to perform endoscopic sphincterotomy is not available or the patient declines further lithotripsy , then resort to surgery may be necessary . we propose that it is the responsibility of the management team in charge of the lithotripsy unit to inform both the patient and the referring clinicians of the possible side-effects and outcome of treatment in an attempt to avoid unnecessary surgical procedures . 
cerebrospinal norepinephrine concentrations and the duration of epidural analgesia this study was performed to determine whether the addition of norepinephrine to local anaesthetics prolongs epidural analgesia in man . in addition , cerebrospinal fluid norepinephrine ( ne ) concentrations were measured . in the first part of the study , epidural catheters were inserted in 14 patients before herniotomy . mepivacaine , 1.5 per cent ( 0.35 ml.kg-1 ) , was administered and norepinephrine ( 5 micrograms.ml-1 ) was added in seven patients . the duration of anaesthesia was prolonged from 54 + / - 11 min to 83 + / - 12 min ( p less than 0.05 ) and csf ne concentrations increased from 68 + / - 12 pg.ml-1 to 336 + / - 85 pg.ml-1 in the ne group ( p less than 0.01 ) . in the second part , eight patients with herpetic neuralgia received epidural analgesia at the fourth to eighth thoracic interspace , using bupivacaine 0.25 per cent , with and without ne . the csf ne concentrations in this group were greater than in the surgical patients before operation and increased from 254 + / - 58 to 406 + / - 58 pg.ml-1 30 min after administration of bupivacaine with ne . the duration of pain relief was prolonged with ne . these results suggest that adding ne to local anaesthetics prolongs epidural analgesia . moreover , ne concentrations in surgical patients increased to levels similar to those found in patients suffering from herpetic analgesia . this suggests that the increase of csf ne in chronic pain states has an antinociceptive effect . 
crico-tracheal disruption and common carotid artery occlusion : a case of blunt trauma . a case of blunt trauma to the neck is presented . while driving an all terrain vehicle ( atv ) , a 20-yr-old male was struck across the anterior neck by a cord suspended between two poles . initial findings were suggestive of an isolated laryngeal injury ; 48 hours later , however , a dense left hemiplegia became manifest . a ct scan demonstrated a large right frontoparietal cerebral infarct , and an angiogram confirmed occlusion of the right common carotid artery . intractable cerebral oedema developed , and the patient died five days after the initial insult . such injuries should alert the clinician to the possibility of major vascular injury , and if suspected , angiography is warranted . 
from disease to delirium : managing the declining elderly patient . many geriatric patients have concurrent physical and psychiatric illnesses , but at times it may be difficult to determine which is primary . delirium , a transient syndrome that presents with psychiatric symptoms , is usually the manifestation of an organic disorder and , if undetected and untreated , can be fatal . clinicians , therefore , must learn to recognize the syndrome , search diligently for the underlying etiology , and treat accordingly . 
evidence for motor neuropathy and reduced filling of the rectum in chronic intractable constipation . subtotal colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis is now frequently offered to patients with slow transit constipation who have severe symptoms and no response to more conventional medical treatment . if this operation is to be successful , the underlying problem should be delay in the progress of contents through the colon but no mechanical or functional obstruction in the small bowel or rectum . we have used a recently described technique of prolonged ambulant manometry and electromyography to investigate anorectal function in these patients . pressure data were collected using a 2 mm diameter intrarectal probe carrying microtransducers , and external anal sphincter activity was assessed by a pair of silver-silver chloride surface electrodes . fourteen control subjects and eight patients with colonic inertia were studied . sampling reflexes , indicative of rectal filling , occurred at mean ( sem ) rates of 7.4 ( 2.0 ) / hour in controls but were significantly reduced in patients ( 2.4 ( 0.3 ) / hour ( p less than 0.01 ] . recurrent rectal motor complexes were seen to occur in both groups at intervals of 76 ( 1.8 ) minutes in controls and 64.9 ( 7.2 ) minutes in patients ( p less than 0.1 ) , and with amplitudes of 42.4 ( 2.1 ) mmhg and 9.2 ( 0.7 ) mmhg ( p less than 0.001 ) , respectively . external sphincter electromyographic spike activity did not differ between groups . our results support the concept of reduced transit of faeces to the rectum from the colon over a 24 hour period in slow transit constipation and suggest that a motor neuropathy may also be present in the rectum . 
phenotypic and functional characterization of t cells from patients with myasthenia gravis . a study of cell surface phenotypes of pbl of myasthenia gravis ( mg ) patients showed that their t cells had a significantly higher percentage of 4b4 + t cells ( the helper/inducer subset ) than age - and sex-matched controls . the pbl of mg patients proliferated significantly higher than those of normal subjects ( ns ) in response to the purified alpha chain of the acetylcholine receptor ( achr ) . anti-achr antibody was present in sera of 88 % of mg and none of the ns . the pbl b cells from mg only , when cultured with autologous t cells and stimulated with either pokeweed mitogen ( 69 % ) , or achr-alpha chain ( 38 % ) , secreted antibody to achr-alpha chain , whereas t and b cells alone secreted no antibody . t cells from pbl of mg patients were more readily cloned than t cells of ns , by limiting dilution , in the presence of recombinant il-2 and in the absence of achr-alpha chain . about 50 % of t cell clones from mg patients , compared to none from ns , proliferated to achr-alpha chain . this response was hla-dr restricted . mg t cell clones did not display significant cytotoxic activity , as compared to control t cell clones . our results indicate that in mg , 4b4 + regulatory t cells play their role in the pathogenesis of mg , not by cytotoxicity , but more likely by their ability to stimulate specific antibody production by b cells . 
causes of death in the elderly and their changing pattern in hisayama , a japanese community . results from a long-term and autopsy-based study . the causes of death for the elderly were prospectively studied in hisayama , japan , a rural community . we compared 1,621 subjects , aged 40 years or over , recruited in 1961 , and 2,053 subjects recruited in 1974 . each cohort was studied in a follow-up that lasted 10 years ; they had autopsy rates of 82.1 % and 86.1 % during each 10-year period , respectively . the most common causes of death for those aged 70 years or over were cerebrovascular disease , malignant neoplasms , and pneumonia . deaths due to cerebrovascular disease tended to decrease in the recent cohort , but the proportion of decline was more prominent in cases aged 40 to 69 years . there was a sex difference in the changing pattern of mortality from heart diseases including ischemic heart disease . deaths by both heart diseases and ischemic heart disease increased in the more recent cohort of aged women , whereas they decreased in the aged men . pneumonia was an important cause of death for the elderly in both cohorts . deaths due to " senility " were rare , being only 1 % of the deceased aged 70 or over . with prolonged lifespan , especially for women , the impact of atherosclerosis and its related disorders on the recent japanese aged population appears to have increased . 
sphenoid sinusitis , a cause of debilitating headache . we present a case of sphenoid sinusitis resulting in a debilitating headache refractory to both oral and intramuscular analgesics . despite an aggressive evaluation in the emergency department , the correct diagnosis and appropriate treatment were delayed . recognition of sphenoid sinusitis , the complications associated with it , and the need for aggressive management are addressed . 
blepharospasm-oromandibular dystonia associated with a left cerebellopontine angle meningioma . blepharospasm-oromandibular dystonia is characterized by the presence of spasms of the orbicularis oculi ( blepharospasm ) and of the lower facial or oromandibular muscles . a patient with this syndrome is presented in which a left cerebellopontine angle meningioma appeared to act as a triggering mechanism for the development of this disorder . on the basis of this report , we recommend that physicians search for this tumor in patients with this disorder . 
reliability of death certificate diagnoses . consistency between death certificates and clinical records from 5 general hospitals in kuwait was studied for 470 deaths with the following underlying or associated causes : hypertensive ( hyp ) , ischaemic heart diseases ( ihd ) , cerebrovascular diseases ( cvd ) and diabetes mellitus ( dm ) . direct causes were not considered since they are of little interest analytically . only deaths with definite or most probable ascertainment were included . one cardiologist , who was provided with the who criteria and relevant documents on death certification , independently reviewed the records . to test the reviewer 's bias and the reliability of his judgement , an adjudication process was effected by having one senior cardiologist re-review a random subsample of 140 records . the two reviewers showed good agreement . specific diagnoses criteria for deciding the underlying cause of death in multiple morbid conditions by the reviewer were followed . due to possible reviewer bias , we aimed at measuring the difference between initial certifiers and the reviewer rather than measuring the diagnostic accuracy of initial certifiers in reference to the reviewer . the agreement index kappa showed poor agreement between original and revised certificates . the original certificates under-estimated cvd as an underlying cause of death by 69.2 % , dm by 60 % , ihd by 33.5 % and hyp by 31.8 % in our sample . associated causes were also consistently under-estimated by initial certifiers as compared with the reviewer . this bias calls for basing mortality statistics in kuwait on hospital death committees ' reports rather than on initial certifier death certificates , use of multiple-causes of death instead of one underlying cause and adequate training of the medical profession on the value and process of death certification . 
sensitivity of effect variables in rheumatoid arthritis : a meta-analysis of 130 placebo controlled nsaid trials [ published erratum appears in j clin epidemiol 1991 ; 44 ( 6 ) :613 ] in a meta-analysis of placebo controlled nsaid trials , the sensitivity of the effect variables was calculated as the correlation coefficient and as the difference between drug and placebo , divided by the placebo group standard deviation . the patient 's global evaluation was the most sensitive variable overall . pain was more sensitive than ritchie 's index . several variables may be omitted from clinical trials , especially if two active drugs are being compared . for example , the best maximum estimate for the difference in esr between nsaids and placebo was 1.0 mm/hr ( 95 % confidence interval -1.5 to 3.4 mm/hr ) , and for joint size 0.44 % ( -1.0 to 1.9 % ) , corresponding to a quarter of a millimeter for each of the 10 joints usually measured . it is suggested to record only the patient 's global evaluation , pain , and morning stiffness . 
examination by logistic regression modelling of the variables which increase the relative risk of elderly women falling compared to elderly men . in a community based , prospective study to determine risk factors for falls , 465 women and 296 men 70 years and over were followed for 1 year and 507 falls were documented . a greater proportion of women ( 32.7 % ) than men ( 23.0 % ) experienced at least one fall in which there was no or minimal external contribution . using unconditional logistic regression models we investigated the effect of physical and sociological variables on the sex difference in fall rate . controlling for the variables age , use of psychotropic drugs , inability to rise from a chair without using arms , going outdoors less than daily and living alone decreased the relative risk of women falling compared to men from 2.02 ( 95 % ci , 1.40-2 .92 ) to 1.55 ( 95 % ci 1.04-2 .31 ) . some of the increased risk of falling associated with being a women was able to be explained and is potentially correctable . but even after controlling for the physical and social variables which we had assessed , women compared to men still had a significantly increased relative risk of falling . 
restricted dose and duration of corticosteroid treatment in patients with polymyalgia rheumatica and temporal arteritis . to analyze whether corticosteroids in low doses during limited time periods could be safely used in the treatment of patients with polymyalgia rheumatica ( pmr ) or temporal arteritis ( ta ) the records of 91 patients diagnosed between 1980 and 1987 were reviewed . the mean initial prednisolone dose was in patients with pmr 18 mg/day and the mean duration of treatment was 17 months . in patients with ta the mean initial dose was 31 mg/day and the mean duration of treatment 16 months , and in all the corticosteroid treatment was terminated within 24 months . patients with coexisting ta and pmr demanded longer treatment compared to patients with either ta or pmr and thus 18/91 patients were treated for more than 2 years . no visual or neurological complications occurred after treatment with corticosteroids had been initiated . our study indicates that most patients with pmr or ta can be treated safely with an initial prednisolone dose of 10 mg given twice daily . with few exceptions corticosteroid treatment can be terminated within 24 months . 
psychological stress and the fibrositis/fibromyalgia syndrome . the relationship of stress and social support to the fibrositis/fibromyalgia syndrome ( fs ) was investigated by administration of 4 questionnaire instruments to 28 patients with fs , 20 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) and 28 pain-free normal controls . fs showed higher levels of stress as measured by daily " hassles " than did ra or controls . however , on a measure of major life stress , they reported lower levels . no differences were found between groups with regard to daily " uplifts " or social support . correlations between those measures of stress and social support with their scores on the arthritis impact measurement scale showed that the hassles scale was significantly related to the aims psychological component . 
diagnostic criteria for neuropsychiatric systemic lupus erythematosus : the results of a consensus meeting . the ad hoc neuropsychiatric lupus workshop group . definitions and classifications proposed for the neuropsychiatric complications of systemic lupus erythematosus ( np-sle ) indicate a wide range of approaches taken by different researchers and clinicians . a meeting of investigators was convened to begin a consensus process for standardizing its classification . we found that the level of agreement among raters on the importance of elements to the diagnosis of np-sle increased significantly as indicated by an intraclass correlation coefficient of 0.05 before the conference to 0.60 after the conference . the results of such studies can be used to generate and test the utility of diagnostic criteria for np-sle in multicenter trials . 
severe cerebral and systemic necrotizing vasculitis developing during pregnancy in a case of systemic lupus erythematosus . we describe a fatal case of systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) developing cerebral and systemic necrotizing vasculitis during pregnancy . the patient was discovered to have sle at 14 weeks ' gestation . although the symptoms disappeared without treatment with corticosteroid in the 2nd trimester , she presented with meningoencephalitis due to vasculitis in the 3rd trimester . polyarteritis nodosa ( pan ) - like necrotizing vasculitis of the small muscular arteries and arterioles , with acute and healing lesions in the leptomeninges , brain parenchyma and visceral organs was observed at postpartum autopsy . pan-like vasculitis in the central nervous system is quite rare in sle . this case is also suggestive in terms of the influence of pregnancy on the activity of sle . 
