the diabetic foot . soft tissue and bone infection . diabetic patients , as a consequence of various neurologic , vascular , and metabolic perturbations , are at high risk for developing infections of the soft tissue and bones of the feet . the microbial etiology of soft tissue in infections is best determined by cultures of a tissue curetting or aspiration , rather than a swab . aerobic gram-positive cocci are the major pathogens in diabetic foot infections ; these may be the sole isolate ( s ) in acute uncomplicated infections , but they are usually accompanied by aerobic gram-negative bacilli or anaerobes in chronic or previously treated infections . carefully selected patients with mild infections can be treated as outpatients with oral antibiotics , but others require hospitalization and broad-spectrum parenteral antibiotics . bone infections are frequently diagnosed on the basis of roentgenographs and nuclear medicine scans , but these methods are often inaccurate , and bone cultures should be obtained whenever possible . 
antagonistic and agonistic effects of transforming growth factor-beta and il-1 in rheumatoid synovium . we investigated potential mechanisms by which lymphocytes infiltrating rheumatoid synovium become immunosuppressed . in 20 of 22 synovial fluids and 12 of 13 synovial tissue culture supernatants , no il-1 bioactivity could be detected in the thymocyte proliferation assay . these same preparations could , however , support proliferation of fibroblast monolayers , consistent with the presence of il-1 and/or other fibroblast growth factors . addition of either rheumatoid synovial fluids or synovial culture supernatants to exogenous il-1 in the il-1 bioassay caused marked inhibition of the assay indicative of an il-1 inhibitor . this inhibition of il-1 could be reversed by treating the effusions or supernatants with a neutralizing antibody to transforming growth factor-beta ( tgf-beta ) . furthermore , monocyte-macrophages isolated from rheumatoid synovial fluid constitutively released both latent and active tgf-beta in culture at levels sufficient to completely block the biologic activity of 100 u/ml il-1 . the production of substantial levels of tgf-beta by synovial macrophages , as well as the apparent ability of these inflammatory macrophages to activate latent tgf-beta , implicates tgf-beta not only as an important inhibitor of il-1-induced lymphocyte proliferation , but also as a key cytokine in promoting synovial fibroblast hyperplasia and pathology . 
evidence that cutaneous antigen-presenting cells migrate to regional lymph nodes during contact sensitization . these studies address the hypothesis that ag-bearing epidermal langerhans cells migrate to the regional lymph node during contact sensitization and function as apc . skin from c3h mice was grafted onto balb/c nude mice , and 7 or 14 days later , the recipients were sensitized with fitc through the grafts . apc from lymph nodes draining the site of sensitization were capable of sensitizing c3h recipients to fitc . because sensitization is mhc restricted , only cells reaching the lymph node from the grafted skin could have induced contact hypersensitivity in c3h mice . examination of the fitc + draining lymph node cells by immunofluorescence and immunoelectron microscopy demonstrated that all were ia + , most were f4/80 + , and some contained birbeck granules . these studies demonstrate that ia + , fitc + cells from the skin , at least some of which are langerhans cells , leave the skin after epicutaneous sensitization with fitc and participate in the initiation of the contact hypersensitivity response within the regional lymph node . 
aberrant proliferation of lumen-forming cells in stratified epithelium of porokeratosis skin . the present investigation was based on the postulate , first proposed by reed and leone in 1970 , that porokeratosis lesions represent clonal growth of epidermal cells . comparative studies using immunocytochemical staining , epidermal cell culture , and non-equilibrium ph gradient ( nephg ) gel electrophoresis analysis of the keratins extracted were carried out on five patients with various types of porokeratosis . positive type iv collagen staining on the stratum corneum was found in lesional skin specimens of all patients , but not in normal controls . a search for connections between type iv collagen in the basement membrane of epidermis and the skin surface disclosed infrequent intra-epidermal streaking of type iv collagen and one positively stained trans-epidermal acrosyringium . positive intra-epidermal laminin staining in porokeratosis lesions confirmed the trans-epidermal passage of basement-membrane materials . epidermal cells cultured from lesional skin showed low plating efficiency , and all colonies exhibited intracytoplasmic vacuole formation and excessive top cell shedding . nephg gel electrophoresis of keratins extracted showed that lesional profiles not only contained keratins normally present in glabrous skin , but also possibly k9 and some additional proteins . k9 had been immunolocalized to periductal cells in previous studies . our findings , taken together , strongly suggest that porokeratosis epidermis consists of epithelial cells with lumen-forming ability . 
the innermost cell layer of the outer root sheath is positive with ki-67 . the expression of a cell proliferation-associated human nuclear antigen was immunohistochemically studied in human anagen hair and hair follicles using the monoclonal antibody ki-67 . the reaction of ki-67 in mature anagen hair follicles was observed in the hair matrix cells and outer root sheath ( ors ) cells . nuclear staining was seen in a small number of matrix cells and in some ors cells ; this finding corresponded to the thymidine or bromodeoxyuridine labeling studies previously reported . in addition , there were two different patterns of cytoplasmic staining in the ors : strong staining of the innermost cells ( imc ) and weaker staining of the other ors cells in the isthmus . ki-67 reactivity of the imc layer was observed at each stage of anagen and was regularly seen from the upper bulb to the isthmus . ki-67 is a commercially available antibody that detects cycling cells . however , the imcs in anagen hair follicles showed cytoplasmic labeling by ki-67 from the matrix cells in the upper bulb to the distal portion of the isthmus . 
increased phospholipase c-catalyzed hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol-4 ,5 - bisphosphate and 1,2-sn-diacylglycerol content in psoriatic involved compared to uninvolved and normal epidermis . evidence suggests that the phospholipase c/protein kinase c signal transduction system participates in the regulation of epidermal cell growth and differentiation . psoriatic epidermis is characterized by hyperproliferation , defective differentiation , and inflammation . in this report , we have determined the activity of phospholipase c-catalyzed hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol-4 ,5 - bisphosphate ( pip2 ) and 1,2-diacylglycerol content in normal and psoriatic involved and uninvolved epidermis . 1,2-diacylglycerol is formed from phospholipase c-catalyzed hydrolysis of pip2 and is the physiologic activator of protein kinase c. pip2 hydrolysis was assayed in soluble and particulate fractions prepared from keratome biopsies of normal and psoriatic skin . total lipids were extracted from normal and psoriatic epidermis and 1,2-diradylglycerol ( a mixture of 1,2-diacylglycerol and 1-ether , 2-acyl-glycerol ) quantitated by enzyme assay . because 1,2-diacylglycerol is a more potent activator of protein kinase c , the relative proportions of 1,2-diacyl and 1-ether , 2-acylglycerol in uninvolved and involved psoriatic epidermis were determined . this was accomplished by separation of acetate derivatives of 1,2-diacylglycerol and 1-ether , 2-acyl-glycerol by thin layer chromatography . soluble and membrane-associated phospholipase c-catalyzed pip2 hydrolysis were increased 3.7 times ( p less than 0.001 ) and 3 times ( p less than 0.004 ) , respectively , in psoriatic involved compared to uninvolved and normal epidermis . 1,2-diradylglycerol content was also significantly elevated ( 3 times , p less than 0.01 ) in psoriatic involved versus uninvolved and normal epidermis . analysis of the acetate derivatives of 1,2-diradylglycerol in psoriatic uninvolved and involved epidermis revealed that 1,2-diacylglycerol was the major species ( 86 % and 95 % , respectively ) . there were no significant differences in either phospholipase c-catalyzed pip2 hydrolysis or 1,2-diacylglycerol content between uninvolved and normal epidermis . 1,2-diacylglycerol purified from normal and involved psoriatic epidermis was capable of activating protein kinase c from normal epidermis in vitro . in epidermal slices , activation of protein kinase c by addition of 12-0-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate and 1,2-diacylglycerol ( 1,2-dioctanoylglycerol ) resulted in subsequently decreased protein kinase c activity , a process termed down-regulation . these data are consistent with the possibility that the elevation in lesional 1,2-diacylglycerol content may account , in part , for the previously reported reduction of protein kinase c activity in psoriasis ( horn , marks , fisher , et al : j invest dermatol 88:220 -222 , 1987 ) . 
successful culture of adult human melanocytes obtained from normal and vitiligo donors . the development of growth conditions for human melanocytes from uninvolved skin from vitiligo patients and age-matched normal adults is a prerequisite to understanding the etiology of this pigmentary disorder . by using new growth conditions , pure melanocyte cultures were prepared from normal adults and the pigmented skin of vitiligo donors . both cell types grew without a lag period and were maintained for more than six months ( 4-8 passages ) . the cultures could be expanded from several thousand melanocytes in the original cell suspension to several million cells ( 2-7 x 10 ( 6 ] in pure culture . to obtain these results , the current standard conditions for the culture of fetal melanocytes were substantially modified . mem-s medium was less satisfactory than mcdb-153 . adult normal and vitiligo cells also required the presence of exogenous catalase ( 20 micrograms/ml ) during isolation and primary seeding . thereafter , this enzyme was not necessary . melanocytes grew best and gave the highest yields if the concentrations of both calcium ( 200 microm ) and the phorbol ester 12-0-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate ( tpa ) were low ( 4-8 nm ) . other growth factors included in the mcdb-153 media were bfgf , crude bovine pituitary extract , insulin , transferrin , hydrocortisone , 5 % fcs , and the antioxidant alpha-tocopherol . cholera toxin and isobutylmethylxanthine ( ibmx ) were omitted from the mcdb-153 growth medium because they slowed down growth even at very low concentrations . the results indicate adult and vitiligo melanocytes can be cultured . preliminary studies of the normal and vitiligo cells indicate that vitiligo melanocytes retain some of the ultrastructural abnormalities observed in skin even when grown in culture . 
naproxen-induced pseudoporphyria : a distinctive photodermatitis . a distinctive photodermatitis developed in 22 children who had been receiving naproxen for prolonged periods . the eruption was marked by erythema , vesiculation , or increased skin fragility characterized by easy scarring of sun-exposed skin . results of biochemical studies for porphyria were normal , and other causes of photosensitivity were believed to be unlikely . of the 22 patients , 21 had juvenile rheumatoid arthritis ; one patient had systemic lupus erythematosus . twenty of the patients had fair skin and blue eyes . in each case , all findings except scarring resolved when naproxen was discontinued . attention must be paid to complaints suggesting photosensitivity in children receiving naproxen . 
the clinical significance of immune reactions with some streptococcal antigens in rheumatoid arthritis . the level of antibodies and delayed-type hypersensitivity to the group specific polysaccharides and cell wall proteins of groups a , b , c and g streptococci was determined in 247 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) as well as in healthy persons and in patients with other articular disorders by means of an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay , passive hemaglutination and leukocyte migration inhibition tests . an increase of the immune response to antigens of group b streptococcus was found in patients with ra . the greatest sensitization against these antigens was typical for high disease activity of short duration , and a rapidly progressive course of ra . high titers of antibodies to polysaccharide of group b streptococcus appeared in the synovial fluid in the early stages of the clinical development of ra . values of immune response to streptococcal antigens correlated well with the titer of rheumatoid factor and the concentration of immunoglobulins and immune complexes . the presence of group b streptococcus in the urogenital tract appeared more often in patients with ra than in healthy persons . the possibility of a triggering role for immune reactions with antigens of group b streptococcus in the immunopathological process of ra is discussed , as well as the diagnostic significance of our results . 
antibodies to denatured type ii collagen in rheumatoid arthritis : negative association with igm rheumatoid factor . serum samples from 129 patients with definite or classic rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) were assayed by elisa for antibodies to denatured bovine type ii collagen ( dii ) . all patients had active disease at the time of serum sampling . anti-dii antibodies were found in 18 ( 14 % ) of 129 patients ( 95 % confidence intervals : 8-20 % ) . the only clinical or laboratory feature associated with the presence of anti-dii antibodies was seronegativity for igm rheumatoid factor ( igm rf ) : 6 ( 37.5 % ) of 16 seronegative patients had anti-dii antibodies vs 12 ( 10.6 % ) of the 113 seropositive patients ( or = 5 , p less than 0.01 ) . there were no associations of anti-dii antibodies with age , sex , race , disease activity , disease duration , functional class , or the presence of hla-dr1 , dr4 , or dqw3 in these patients . antibodies to type ii collagen may have a pathophysiologic role in ra , especially in patients seronegative for rf . 
suppressed serum erythropoietin response to anemia and the efficacy of recombinant erythropoietin in the anemia of rheumatoid arthritis . serum erythropoietin ( epo ) was measured by radioimmunoassay in 67 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) . twenty of these patients judged to have iron deficiency anemia , based on reduced serum ferritin levels , had higher serum epo levels than did the 24 other anemic patients with normal or elevated serum ferritin levels . a significant negative correlation between serum epo and hemoglobin concentrations was noted in the former group , but not in the latter . human recombinant erythropoietin ( r-epo ) was administered to 6 anemic patients with ra , resulting in improvement of anemia in 4 patients , 2 of whom showed no change in ra activity . these findings suggest a suppressed serum epo response ot anemia and the effectiveness of r-epo in treating anemia associated with ra . 
rheumatoid arthritis and comorbidity . data collected from 288 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) indicated that 54 % of respondents also reported other chronic conditions , and that 20 % rated at least one of these other conditions as severe . both the frequency and severity of these comorbidities affected scores on measures of depressive symptoms , social connectedness and on the arthritis impact measurement scales . these findings suggest that the absence of controls for comorbidity may bias measures of functional status among patients with ra . 
pulsed suppressive treatment in rheumatoid arthritis : intravenous methylprednisolone and nitrogen mustard . persistent polyarticular rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) and aggressive disease flares resistant to conventional therapy can effectively be controlled by intravenous pulse methylprednisolone ( ivmp ) or nitrogen mustard ( hn2 ) . the efficacy , toxicity and immunologic effects of each agent are reviewed . clinical response is evident within days of the start of therapy for both ; persisting up to 6 weeks for ivmp and at least 59 days for hn2 . morbidity from both agents is minimal when appropriate precautions are taken . no mortalities directly related to either modality have been reported in ra . 
elevated serum levels of soluble interleukin 2 receptor , interleukin 2 and neopterin in diffuse and limited scleroderma : effects of chlorambucil . in a study of 48 patients with systemic sclerosis ( ssc ) . elevated serum levels of soluble interleukin 2 receptor ( il-2r ) , interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) and neopterin ( indicators of lymphocyte/monocyte activation ) were noted in 100 , 44 and 40 % of early untreated patients with ssc ( 11 diffuse , 5 limited ) . levels of il-2r , but not il-2 or neopterin , were lower in patients with longer duration of disease and possibly with chlorambucil therapy . pharmacologic alterations of markers of humoral or cell mediated immunity may not be an accurate reflection of clinical efficacy of chlorambucil . 
cd5 positive b lymphocytes in seronegative juvenile arthritis . we investigated the levels of circulating cd5 + b cells in 43 patients with seronegative , hla-b27 negative juvenile arthritis , 7 patients with juvenile dermatomyositis ( dm ) and 16 children with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) . we found that cd5 + b cell levels were high in juvenile arthritis ( p less than 0.01 ) , normal in juvenile dm and decreased in sle ( p less than 0.01 ) compared to 33 age matched controls . in juvenile arthritis , the increase of cd5 + b cells appeared to be independent of discuss activity and was present in all the onset types except in a subset of patient with late onset pauciarthritis . 
rheumatoid arthritis in a patient with sickle cell disease . sickle cell disease has various articular manifestations . coexistent rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) and sickle cell disease has been reported rarely . we present a patient with sickle cell disease and seropositive erosive ra demonstrating characteristic radiographic findings of the 2 entities . 
a double blind placebo controlled trial of low dose clotrimazole in rheumatoid arthritis . seventy-three patients with rheumatoid arthritis were randomized in a double blind study to receive either clotrimazole ( 20 mg/kg/day ) 2 days a week for 12 weeks or matching placebo . patients receiving clotrimazole had significant improvements ( p less than 0.05 ) from baseline in measurements of grip strength , joint count , and patient assessment of pain , but did not show significant improvement over patients treated with placebo . more adverse experiences , predominantly gastrointestinal complaints , occurred in patients taking clotrimazole resulting in 9 patients discontinuing therapy . 
lack of significant interaction between low dose methotrexate and ibuprofen or flurbiprofen in patients with arthritis . low dose methotrexate ( mtx ) is widely used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis . current product recommendations accompanying mtx preparations advise against concurrent usage of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs ( nsaid ) , and adverse pharmacokinetic interactions have been reported with this combination . six patients who were receiving mtx were studied with both oral and parenteral mtx , 10-25 mg/dose , without nsaid and with ibuprofen ( 2400 mg/day ) and flurbiprofen ( 300 mg/day ) for 6 weekly doses . serum mtx levels were obtained at frequent intervals . serum was separated and mtx analyzed using a radioimmunoassay ( ria ) . there was no observable interaction between mtx and either ibuprofen or flurbiprofen , with respect to the area under the curve per unit dose , cmax , cmax/dose , tmax , and serum half-life . the pharmacokinetic indices were not significantly influenced by the route of administration . 
a self-report articular index measure of arthritic activity : investigations of reliability , validity and sensitivity . a self-report measure of rheumatoid arthritic activity developed from the articular index described by thompson , silman , kirwan , and currey ( 1987 ) , was tested for reliability , validity , and sensitivity to therapeutic change . concurrent validity was demonstrated by a significant correlation , ( icc = 0.83 ) between the self-report measure and a standard thompson index completed by a rheumatologist . test-retest reliability was demonstrated by significant correlations ( icc = 0.88 , icc = 0.77 ) between repeated administrations of the self-report form in 2 independent samples . the self-report measure demonstrated sensitivity to therapeutic change when completed by patients both before and after intraarticular corticosteroid injection . the rheumatologist 's index correlated significantly with c-reactive protein but the self-report form did not . 
psychological screening in rheumatoid arthritis . our objective was to examine the utility of the symptom checklist-90-r ( scl-90-r ) as a psychological screening instrument for patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) . subjects were 81 male and 3 female patients with classic or definite ra who were categorized into 3 anatomic stage groups based on roentgenograms . erythrocyte sedimentation rates , joint counts , and the scl-90-r were obtained on all subjects . in addition , rheumatologists were surveyed , and items were analyzed to identify potential disease related items on the scl-90-r . both the survey and the item analyses supported the utility of the scl-90-r as a psychological screening instrument in a population with ra . 
reliability of pain scales in the assessment of literate and illiterate patients with rheumatoid arthritis . the assessment of a measure of chronic pain , should be reliable , valid and sensitive to change . our study evaluated the reliability of 3 pain scales , visual analogue scale ( vas ) , numerical rating scale ( nrs ) and verbal rating scale ( vrs ) in literate and illiterate patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) . patients with ra attending an outpatient rheumatology clinic were interviewed and asked to score their pain levels on the 3 pain scales . the scales were presented in random order , twice , before and just after a regular medical consultation . ninety-one patients were studied ( 25 illiterate and 66 literate ) . the pearson product moment correlation between first and second assessment was 0.937 for vas , 0.963 for nrs and 0.901 for vrs in the literate patient group and 0.712 for vas , 0.947 for nrs and 0.820 for vrs in the illiterate patient group . these results indicate that the nrs has the higher reliability in both groups of patients . 
triiodothyronine treatment for raynaud 's phenomenon : a controlled trial . the effects of 80 micrograms triiodothyronine ( t3 ) daily were compared with placebo in a double blind controlled crossover trial in 18 patients with raynaud 's phenomenon . reductions in the frequency , duration and severity of attacks while taking t3 were gradual but highly significant . four of 6 subjects had skin ulcer healing . skin temperatures in the hands increased significantly . the skin temperature recovery times after cold exposure were significantly shorter during t3 therapy compared with placebo . although large dosages of t3 were well tolerated , 6 patients experienced episodic palpitations , and slight but significant increases in heart rate and pulse pressure were observed . evaluation of the use of physiological doses of t3 ( 60 micrograms daily or less ) in the treatment of raynaud 's phenomenon is suggested . 
connective tissue disease in southeast georgia . a community based study of immunogenetic markers and autoantibodies . hla antigens , c4 allotypes and t cell antigen receptor ( tcr ) beta dna polymorphisms were determined in a community based study of connective tissue diseases ( ctd ) . hla-b8 , dr3 and c4a null phenotypes occurred frequently in caucasian patients with ctd , especially those with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) , but were also more commonly found among healthy white controls of this southeast georgia community . tcr beta gene polymorphisms also showed differential segregation patterns between patients with sle and scleroderma . high frequencies of ana and anti-ssdna antibodies occurred among apparently healthy family members and local controls . genetic factors predisposing to ctd in a community setting appear to be similar to those reported from referral centers . 
the heterogeneity of anticentromere antibodies in immunoblotting analysis . we tested anticentromere antibody positive sera from 37 patients by immunoblotting techniques . three antigenic polypeptides were recognized when immunoblotted against protein extracts from hela cell nuclei or from chromosomal segments enriched with centromere region . these were a 17 kda ( cenp-a recognized by 34 sera ) , an 80 kda ( cenp-b recognized by 33 sera ) , and a 140 kda polypeptide ( cenp-c recognized by 26 sera ) . there was no disease specific pattern of antigenic polypeptides , although raynaud 's phenomenon was frequent in patients with anti-cenp-b reactivities ( p less than 0.01 ) . the heterogeneity of the anticentromere antibody response in japanese patients shows anticentromere antibody may not be a disease specific autoantibody and diagnostic marker . 
pyoderma gangrenosum complicating felty 's syndrome . the case of a 54-year-old woman with felty 's syndrome whose course was complicated by mucocutaneous lesions clinically typical of pyoderma gangrenosum is described . necrotizing sinusitis and saddle nose deformity were distinctive clinical features . lymphocytic vasculitis and rheumatoid nodule formation observed within panniculus at the base of a cutaneous lesion and in a nasal mucosal lesion were unexpected histopathologic findings . 
splinter hemorrhages as a possible clinical manifestation of cholesterol crystal embolization . we describe a patient with cholesterol crystal embolization who demonstrated splinter hemorrhages of multiple fingernails and toenails as part of her clinical presentations . our patient 's clinical presentation , and review of the medical literature , raise the possibility that cholesterol crystal embolization may be associated with splinter hemorrhages . 
acute central nervous system symptoms caused by ibuprofen in connective tissue disease . we describe 2 cases of acute encephalopathy in patients with connective tissue disease caused by small doses of ibuprofen . in addition to aseptic meningitis , both patients had altered mental status and focal neurologic signs , ophthalmoplegia in one and hemiparesis in the other . the spectrum of neurologic manifestations of ibuprofen hypersensitivity is reviewed . 
estimating the incidence and prevalence of rare rheumatologic diseases : a review of methodology and available data sources [ editorial ] where the need for descriptive epidemiology is great , population based registries can be established , at considerable cost , to provide the desired data . in many instances , however , there may be existing data and information systems that provide morbidity information on sufficiently large , well defined populations to allow reasonable estimates of the incidence and prevalence of rare rheumatologic diseases . 
new active analogues of vitamin d with low calcemic activity . in conclusion , a number vitamin d analogues have been developed that have very low calcemic activity but retain several other properties of 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 , including the ability to differentiate leukemia and skin cells , to enhance the immune response , and to suppress parathyroid hormone levels . although the mechanism of this selective activity is not yet clear , these analogues may provide new insights into the differences in action of 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 in various target tissues . most importantly , the selective action of these analogues may be exploited for the treatment of diseases such as leukemia , psoriasis and hyperparathyroidism . 
development of a new surgical procedure for repairing tracheobronchomalacia . we have developed a new surgical method for repairing tracheobronchomalacia . in experiments on dogs we tried external fixation of marlex mesh ( bard cardiosurgery division , bellerica , mass. ) on the trachea . we first made models of tracheomalacia by making fractures or resections in intrathoracic tracheal cartilages and then made an external fixation of marlex mesh on the malacic segments of the trachea . in 11 dogs marlex mesh was sutured onto the trachea with absorbable thread . the trachea was firmly supported after 2 to 6 months , compared with three controls in which no external fixation was made . however , mucosal defects associated with ischemia caused by the suture developed in four of the 11 . in 13 more dogs marlex mesh was bonded to the trachea with fibrin glue . after 3 to 8 months the supporting strength of the trachea increased up to the level of the normal trachea . there was no evidence of inflammation or of mucosal defects . therefore marlex mesh was applied to a 44-year-old-man who had experienced frequent attacks of cough syncope . after the operation the attacks of cough syncope and collapsing of his airway disappeared completely . 
topical podofilox for the treatment of condylomata acuminata in women . the purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy and safety of 0.5 % podofilox solution ( condylox ) for the treatment of genital warts in women . thirty-seven women with anogenital warts applied the solution to the surface of these warts twice daily for 3 days , followed by 4 drug-free days . a minimum of two and a maximum of four treatment cycles were given . the subjects were evaluated weekly for the first 4 weeks and again at 6 and 10 weeks . at the end of 10 weeks , the mean number of warts per patient was reduced from 6.27 to 1.1 , and half of the patients were completely cleared of warts . only eight of 37 subjects ( 21.6 % ) developed new warts during the study period . approximately 15 % of patients reported " severe " local reactions to the treatment after the first treatment cycle , but this was reduced to only 5 % by the last treatment cycle . during the same period , the patients reporting no side effects increased from 44 to 86 % . the only woman who discontinued the study did so because of dizziness and epigastric discomfort , probably unrelated to drug use . thus , 0.5 % podofilox solution appears to be an effective treatment for condylomata acuminata , with acceptable side effects that are local and temporary . 
does the treatment of genital condylomata in men decrease the treatment failure rate of cervical dysplasia in the female sexual partner ? three hundred ninety women treated for cervical dysplasia by local tissue ablation were studied retrospectively to test the hypothesis that the treatment failure rate is lower if the male sexual partner is also treated . in 190 cases , the male sexual partner was examined and treated successfully for genital condylomata . controls were 200 women treated during the same time period and closely matched to the study group regarding age , race , socioeconomic status , histologic grade of dysplasia , distribution of the lesions , and methods of therapy , but the male partner was neither examined nor treated . the treatment failure rate for women whose partners were also treated was not significantly different from that for women whose partners were not treated ( 6.8 versus 7.5 % ; p greater than .05 ) , suggesting that treating genital condylomata in men does not affect the failure rate of cervical dysplasia in female sexual partners . 
human papillomavirus associated with poor healing of episiotomy repairs . a retrospective case-control investigation was conducted for risk factors in 47 parturients whose episiotomies dehisced in the immediate postpartum period . data were extracted from the inpatient , outpatient , and pathology records of each of these 47 patients , as well as from the same records for each of the next two patients who delivered with the same type and degree of episiotomy . no difference between subjects and controls was found for age , parity , or medical history . except for human papillomavirus ( hpv ) , past or present history of sexually transmitted diseases was not a risk factor . however , active lesions , history thereof , or subsequent development of infection with hpv was found in 14 of 47 patients ( 29.8 % ) who had episiotomy breakdown , compared with 13 of 94 women ( 13.8 % ) who did not experience this complication , a statistically significant difference ( p less than .023 ) . eleven subjects ( 23.4 % ) and nine controls ( 9.6 % ) gave a history of smoking during pregnancy , also a statistically significant difference ( p less than .026 ) . 
successful pregnancy outcome in association with lipoatrophic diabetes mellitus . lipoatrophic diabetes mellitus is a rare syndrome characterized by lipoatrophy and insulin-resistant diabetes mellitus . partial lipodystrophy without clinical diabetes mellitus has been associated with intrauterine growth retardation and fetal death . we report successful pregnancy outcomes in two women with lipoatrophic diabetes mellitus . 
oral squamous cell carcinoma arising in a patient with long-standing lichen planus . a case report . the risk of malignant transformation of oral lichen planus remains a controversial point . many previous reports have been discounted on the basis of inadequate information or lack of histologic confirmation of lichen planus . we report a well-documented case of long-standing cutaneous and oral lichen planus in which squamous cell carcinoma of the dorsal portion of the tongue occurred . there is an apparent difference in the sites of oral carcinomas in patients with lichen planus compared with the general population . this suggests that lichen planus increases the risk of oral cancer in affected sites . 
premature alveolar bone loss in erdheim-chester disease . erdheim-chester disease is a rare histiocytosis also known as lipoid granulomatosis . oral findings have not been reported previously to our knowledge . this case report documents evidence of oral sequelae of erdheim-chester disease . a patient whose course was followed for 10 years at the national institutes of health had premature alveolar bone resorption . he underwent full-mouth extraction at age 29 years because of severe periodontitis . histopathologic evidence of erdheim-chester disease was demonstrated in the periodontal soft tissues . in the ensuring years , accelerated resorption of the residual ridges precluded the use of conventional dentures . we recommend early preventive dental management for patients with erdheim-chester disease . 
a dentofacial deformity associated with incontinentia pigmenti : report of a case . a case of ip in a 16-year-old girl has been presented . this patient manifested classic ectodermal and mesodermal anomalies . we present this case to illustrate a rare etiologic factor in the development of dentofacial deformities that can be treated in the conventional manner . 
more unusual pigmentations of the gingiva . three unusual types of oral pigmentation are presented . the first is a brown orange pigmentation caused by the habit of using the bark of juglans regia for teeth cleaning . the second is a bright yellow pigmentation associated with the habit of chewing the seeds of cola nitida . the third is a generalized mousy brown pigmentation related to the habit of chewing the leaves of catha edulis . the purpose of this article is to describe the nature of these pigmentations and to present their clinical and histologic features . 
adult linear immunoglobulin a disease manifesting as desquamative gingivitis . desquamative gingivitis is a manifestation of various dermatoses , particularly lichen planus and mucous membrane pemphigoid . a rare example of adult linear immunoglobulin a disease manifesting as desquamative gingivitis is presented . although the initial clinical features were typical of desquamative gingivitis , the persistence of ulceration after dental extractions was unusual , and the management of the oral lesions proved difficult . the clinical , immunopathologic , and therapeutic aspects of linear immunoglobulin a dermatoses are reviewed . 
immunohistochemical study of oral lesions of lichen planus : diagnostic and pathophysiologic aspects . the immunophenotype of lymphoid cells in the epithelium and lamina propria of the oral mucosa were examined in patients with lichen planus , nondysplastic leukoplakia , leukoplakia with lichen planus , and other unrelated lesions . in all groups t lymphocytes were predominant ; however , the t4/t8 lymphocyte ratio was higher with lichen planus than with other groups . this may be of diagnostic value in the histologic evaluation of oral lesions not typical of lichen planus . finally , a higher percentage of langerhans cells were observed in lichen planus . an immunologic pathogenesis of lichen planus is proposed . 
early solid feeding and recurrent childhood eczema : a 10-year longitudinal study . the relationship between early solid feeding practices and risks of recurrent or chronic eczema in childhood was examined in a birth cohort of new zealand children studied to the age of 10 . by the age of 10 years , 7.5 % of children had chronic or recurrent eczema . there were clear and consistent associations between the diversity of the child 's diet during the first 4 months and risks of eczema . even when due allowance was made for a range of confounding factors -- including parental atopic illness , atopic illness in siblings , the child 's early milk diet , and family social background -- children exposed to four or more different types of solid food before 4 months had risks of recurrent or chronic eczema that were 2.9 times those of children who were not exposed to early solid feeding . it is concluded that early exposure to a diet diverse in potential food antigens may act to predispose susceptible children to recurrent or chronic childhood eczema . 
vancomycin-induced red man syndrome . a total of 11 cases of red man syndrome collected among 650 children who had received vancomycin in our hospital between 1986 and 1988 ( estimated prevalence 1.6 % ) were retrospectively analyzed . these 11 children were compared with 11 age-matched children who received vancomycin in whom red man syndrome did not develop . of the patients with red man syndrome , 73 % , and of the patients with no reaction , 45.4 % received vancomycin for penicillin-resistant staphylococcus epidermidis-positive cultures , or because of history of penicillin allergy . no difference was observed in the dose per kilogram given to both groups ( 12.9 + / - 3.5 mg/kg per dose in those with red man syndrome vs 12.3 + / - 6.9 mg/kg per dose in control children . the duration ( mean + / - standard deviation ) of vancomycin infusion was 45.9 + / - 16.7 minutes ( range 10 to 90 minutes ) in patients with red man syndrome and 54.5 + / - 7.6 minutes ( range 45 to 65 minutes ) in the control group ( p = .07 ) . in the 5 children with red man syndrome rechallenged with vancomycin , slower infusion rates prevented or reduced the syndrome , which emphasized the fact that the rate of administration is the important determinant of red man syndrome in susceptible cases . clinically , the syndrome developed at the end of the infusion in most patients , but appeared as early as 15 minutes after initiation of the infusion . it was mostly manifested as a flushed , erythematous rash on the face , neck , and around the ears . less frequently , the rash was distributed all over the body . pruritus was usually localized to the upper trunk but was also generalized ( 2 of 11 children ) . 
preventing cervical cancer by treating genital warts in men . why male sex partners need androscopy . the increased incidence of cancer of the genitourinary and anorectal areas has been directly related to the coexistence of genital human papillomavirus infection . the diagnosis and treatment of condyloma acuminatum in men is important not only to prevent cancer but also to decrease the reservoir of virus that is being transferred to women . screening with androscopy ( examination of male genitals with a colposcope after a vinegar solution has been applied to the skin ) is indicated for all men who are at risk for this infection . treatment options include chemical application , cryosurgery , laser therapy , and interferon injections . to be effective , treatment must include both sexual partners . 
major histocompatibility complex haplotype studies in ashkenazi jewish patients with pemphigus vulgaris . of 26 ashkenazi jewish patients with pemphigus vulgaris , 24 ( 92.3 % ) carried the major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) class ii alleles hla-dr4 , dqw3 , of which all were of the subtype dr4 , dqw8 . from studies of the patients and their families , haplotypes were defined . it was found that , of the patients who carried hla-dr4 , dqw8 , 75 % carried one or the other ( and in one case , both ) of two haplotypes [ hla-b38 , sc21 , dr4 ] or hla-b35 , sc31 , dr4 . the former is a known extended haplotype among normal jews , with a frequency of 0.102 , and the latter may also be an extended haplotype in this ethnic group , with a frequency of 0.017 among normal haplotypes from jews . of the remaining dr4-positive patients , all but one had a presumed d-region segment ( defined as sc21 , dr4 , dqw8 or sc31 , dr4 , dqw8 with variable hla-b ) of these haplotypes . only one patient had dr4 , dqw8 without any other markers of the extended haplotypes . the number of homozygotes and heterozygotes for dr4 , dqw8 was consistent with dominant but not recessive ( p less than 0.01 ) inheritance of a class ii or a class ii-linked susceptibility gene for the disease . since the disease is entirely attributable to the presence of an antibody to an intraepidermal intercellular cement substance , it is likely that the class ii susceptibility gene ( on [ hla-b38 , sc21 , dr4 , dqw8 ] , hla-b35 , sc31 , dr4 , dqw8 , or their segments , in jewish patients ) controls the production of the antibody as a dominantly expressed immune response gene . 
the cutaneous manifestations in children with familial mediterranean fever ( recurrent hereditary polyserositis ) . a six-year study . in a six-year study of 46 children with familial mediterranean fever ( recurrent hereditary polyserositis ) , 20 children ( 43 per cent ) developed cutaneous manifestations . ten children had 18 episodes of erysipelas-like erythema which proved to be specific for the disease . twelve children ( 26 per cent ) had 31 episodes of non-specific purpuric rash and six children ( 13 per cent ) had nine episodes of henoch-schonlein purpura . other manifestations included diffuse erythema of the face , and/or trunk , angioneurotic oedema , diffuse erythema of the palms and soles followed by mild desquamation of the skin , raynaud 's phenomenon and a subcutaneous nodule . the mean frequency of the cutaneous lesions was 1.6 / patient/year before colchicine therapy and 0.4 / patient/year after colchicine therapy ( p = 0.0005 ) . the high incidence of cutaneous manifestations and their response to colchicine strongly suggest that skin involvement is an integral part familial mediterranean fever . 
the source and significance of raised serum enzymes in rheumatoid arthritis . hepatobiliary dysfunction in rheumatoid arthritis has been suggested on the basis of raised serum activity of alkaline phosphatase , 5-nucleotidase , lactic dehydrogenase and gamma-glutamyl transferase , but a specific pathological lesion has not been demonstrated and serum transaminases and bilirubin are almost invariably normal . this paper reports a series of studies designed to determine the tissues of origin of the enzymes and offers an alternative interpretation of the enzymological findings . the results suggest that only alkaline phosphatase originates from the liver , while lactic dehydrogenase and 5-nucleotidase originate from synovial fluid polymorphs and synovial lining cells , respectively . serum alkaline phosphatase may be induced by inflammatory mediators such as interleukin-1 because it correlates with the acute phase response . serum lactic dehydrogenase is an integrated measure of polymorph lysis in all joints and offers a marker of joint inflammation more specific than measures such as the esr . levels of serum 5-nucleotidase provide information about the activity of the synovium . finally , because hepatic necrosis does not normally occur , the transaminases may be used to monitor drug toxicity . 
penile implants in the treatment of peyronie 's disease . the treatment of peyronie 's disease remains controversial . patients who fail conservative therapy may require surgical intervention to restore the ability to have sexual intercourse . plaque excision and dermal grafting have not been universally successful , and alternate procedures that rely on the placement of a penile prosthesis have gained in popularity . we reviewed our experience with 35 patients with advanced peyronie 's disease treated with a penile prosthesis . preoperatively , 55 % of the patients were unable to engage in intercourse due to pain or angulation of the penis and 25 % were unable to achieve any erection at all . postoperatively , with a mean followup of 6.9 years , 88 % of the patients were able to engage in intercourse and were satisfied with the results obtained . in selected patients with advanced disease the implantation of a penile prosthesis remains a highly successful and satisfying alternative for the treatment of peyronie 's disease . 
diagnostic accuracy and appropriateness of care for seborrheic keratoses . a pilot study of an approach to quality assurance for cutaneous surgery in 1985 there were more than 40 million visits for ambulatory surgical procedures in the united states . although benign cutaneous lesions are among the most frequent conditions to receive surgical treatment in ambulatory settings , their treatment is seldom subject to peer review . in this pilot study we assessed diagnostic accuracy and appropriateness of care using information available from the surgical pathology laboratory . we assessed these two measures of physician performance for 527 seborrheic keratoses removed by 133 clinicians affiliated with four different institutions . overall , a correct preoperative diagnosis was provided in only 49 % of cases . dermatologists had the highest diagnostic accuracy ( 61 % vs 35 % for all other physicians ) . an appropriate procedure for the actual pathological diagnosis was performed in only 50 % of cases . lesions with a correct preoperative diagnosis were more than eight times more likely to receive appropriate care . our data suggest that many clinicians fail to note a correct diagnosis of common cutaneous lesions before surgical removal , and many patients are treated with procedures that are more invasive than necessary for the final pathological diagnosis . because the approach used in this pilot study relies on data already available , it has promise as a low-cost method of monitoring the quality of care of ambulatory surgery . 
deficiency of calcitonin gene-related peptide in raynaud 's phenomenon . skin biopsy samples from the fingers of nine patients with primary raynaud 's phenomenon , nine with the disorder associated with systemic sclerosis , and eleven healthy controls were examined by immunocytochemistry . there were no differences between the groups in the distribution of pgp 9.5 ( a pan-neuronal marker ) immunoreactivity , but there was a significant reduction in the number of calcitonin gene-related peptide ( cgrp ) immunoreactive neurons in the skin of patients with primary raynaud 's phenomenon and those with systemic sclerosis . these findings implicate dysfunction of the cgrp neurovascular axis in the pathophysiology of raynaud 's phenomenon . 
immunopathology of cicatricial pemphigoid affecting the conjunctiva . conjunctival biopsy specimens from 13 patients with cicatricial pemphigoid and from 13 age-matched healthy individuals undergoing cataract surgery were analyzed by light microscopy and immunohistochemical techniques , including a panel of monoclonal antibodies used to characterize inflammatory mononuclear cell phenotypes . results of histologic examination of cicatricial pemphigoid specimens showed typical squamous metaplasia , vasculopathy , increased numbers of mast cells , and abundant plasma cells . all cicatricial pemphigoid specimens demonstrated immunoreactants at the epithelial basement membrane zone ( bmz ) . epithelium of cicatricial pemphigoid conjunctiva showed significantly more t-helper cells ( cd4 + ) , dendritic cells ( cd1 + ) , and macrophages ( cd14 + ) , and a significantly higher helper/suppressor ratio than did controls . in the substantia propria , pemphigoid specimens showed dramatically increased inflammatory infiltrate with significantly more cells staining , in order of frequency , for t cells ( cd3 + , cd5 + ) , t-helper cells ( cd4 + ) , t-suppressor cells ( cd8 + ) , macrophages ( cd14 + , mac-1 + ) , and dendritic cells ( cd1 + , hla-dr + ) . ten percent of these cells expressed interleukin-2 receptor protein ( cd25 + ) , indicating t-cell activation . 
split-thickness skin grafting of the myelomeningocele defect : a subset at risk for late ulceration . the appropriate method and timing of the management of the myelomeningocele defect have prompted considerable discussion . use of split-thickness skin grafts acutely has accomplished wound closure with low morbidity and mortality . this study was designed to address the question of long-term suitability of the technique of split-thickness skin grafting of the myelomeningocele patient . the incidence of late and/or severe skin ulceration and the presence of gibbus deformity were correlated with the method of skin closure . long-term follow-up revealed a higher incidence of chronic skin ulceration in the split-thickness skin graft group as compared with the primary closure group . all skin breakdowns appeared in the presence of a gibbus deformity , and gibbus deformity was more prevalent in the split-thickness skin graft group . the incidence of skin ulceration and gibbus deformity was site-dependent . a thoracic or thoracolumbar myelomeningocele repair with split-thickness skin graft was significantly more likely to be complicated by skin problems than the defect in the lumbar , lumbosacral , or sacral region . this relationship was secondary to the frequency of gibbus deformity in the more cephalad defects than defects caudad . a treatment plan is outlined that is based on the primary variable of the location of the myelomeningocele and secondarily by defect size . 
a case of sideburn reconstruction using a temporoparieto-occipital island flap . a preliminary case is reported in which a large temporal bald scar including the sideburn was successfully reconstructed using a temporoparieto-occipital island flap in combination with a tissue expander . this flap is considered to be a kind of reverse-flow island flap of the occipital artery by means of the fine vascular connections with the temporal branch of the superficial temporal artery . this new method is potentially a good solution for sideburn reconstruction . 
evaluation of argon laser surgery in children under 13 years of age . argon laser surgery is an effective treatment for ectasias and congenital port-wine stains ; however , its use in children under the age of 13 is controversial . this paper reviews 202 children under the age of 13 who underwent argon laser treatments for congenital port-wine stains , spider angiomas , epidermal nevi , and lentigines . the clinical characteristics of port-wine stains in 170 children are discussed . good to excellent results ( moderate to complete clearing ) in port-wine stains were obtained in 60 percent of patients and seemed to correlate best with lack of blanchability on pressure . hypertrophic scarring was seen in only 7 children , all of whom had undressed wounds ; no significant scarring has been seen in any subsequent child who had maintained a dressed wound postoperatively . 
adult respiratory distress syndrome after limited resection of adenocarcinoma of the lung . two cases of the adult respiratory distress syndrome developed after limited resection for lung carcinoma . no other known precipitants were evident . the adult respiratory distress syndrome is a clinical expression of acute lung injury that may arise from various insults and include air and blood borne factors . tumour related blood borne factors may have contributed to lung injury in these cases . 
diffuse alveolar haemorrhage associated with progressive systemic sclerosis . a 41 year old man with an eight year history of progressive systemic sclerosis developed severe diffuse alveolar haemorrhage and died . the importance of diffuse alveolar haemorrhage as a rare but potentially serious complication of connective tissue disease should not be overlooked . 
evidence of heterogeneous mechanisms in lipoprotein lipid alterations in hyperandrogenic women . fifty-one hyperandrogenic women had their lipoprotein lipid profiles determined . free and albumin-bound testosterone was associated with triglycerides and with high-density lipoprotein cholesterol independent of fasting insulin levels , percent ideal body weight , and waist/hip ratio . to gain insight into mechanisms of these lipid alterations , the women were subgrouped according to apparent source of androgen excess . whereas all groups had low levels of high-density lipoprotein-2 cholesterol and high triglyceride concentrations , only in those with high luteinizing hormone-to-follicle-stimulating hormone ratios was free and albumin-bound testosterone associated with triglycerides and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol independent of fasting insulin levels . relationships between percent ideal body weight and waist/hip ratios , free and albumin-bound testosterone , sex hormone binding globulin , fasting insulin and 2-hour insulin levels and blood pressure are not significant in all subgroups , suggesting differing endocrinological influences and differing mechanisms for lipoprotein lipid alterations . 
epidural morphine with butorphanol for postoperative analgesia after cesarean delivery . epidural morphine has been used more and more to provide long-lasting postoperative analgesia after cesarean delivery . however , the incidence of pruritus ( 20 % -93 % ) and nausea ( 17 % -60 % ) detract from the usefulness of epidural morphine . the purpose of this study was to evaluate , in 30 patients having epidural anesthesia for cesarean delivery , the analgesic efficacy and side effects when a combination of epidural morphine , a mu-receptor agonist , and butorphanol , a mu-receptor antagonist and kappa-receptor agonist , was administered . after clamping of the umbilical cord , patients received 4 mg epidural morphine with 3 ml of normal saline ( group 1 ) , 4 mg epidural morphine with 1 mg butorphanol and 2 ml of normal saline ( group 2 ) , or 4 mg epidural morphine with 3 mg butorphanol ( group 3 ) . patients were monitored for 24 h after administration of the study medications . there were no significant differences between the groups in visual analogue pain scores , time to first analgesic request , respiratory rate , or trieger dot test performance in the 24 h immediately after these epidural injections . there were three patients in group 1 and one patient in group 2 who experienced oxygen saturations less than 90 % . ( no patients in group 3 developed an oxygen saturation less than 92 % . ) the patients in group 3 did not require treatment for pruritus or nausea , a response significantly different ( p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.05 , respectively ) from group 1 or group 2 . 
individual patterns of immediate skin reactivity to mold extracts . one hundred atopic patients were skin tested intradermally over a 2-year period with 30 different mold extracts . subjects were monitored for immediate reactions . data suggest that to evaluate mold sensitivity in atopic patients one must use multiple mold extracts . 
anogenital warts in children . clinical and virologic evaluation for sexual abuse seventy-three children with anogenital warts were examined for sexual abuse during a 2-year period . our data suggest that nonsexual transmission is common , particularly in children under 3 years of age . approximately 25 % of these children were younger than age 1 year , and another 50 % were between the ages of 1 and 3 years . no evidence of sexual abuse was detected in 66 children . 
type vii collagen and 19-dej-1 antigen . comparison of expression in inversa and generalized variants of recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa . the expression of type vii collagen and 19-dej-1 antigen was examined in 73 and 71 patients , respectively , with recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa ( rdeb ) , comprising gravis , mitis , inversa , and indeterminant subsets , to better determine the specificity and sensitivity of two monoclonal antibodies directed against these dermoepidermal junction-specific epitopes . type vii collagen ( lh 7:2 epitope ) was usually absent ( in 90 % ) in patients with the gravis variant of rdeb , whereas its expression was most often diminished ( in 67 % ) in those with the mitis form of the disease . only 2 % and 5 % of patients with gravis and mitis variants , respectively , had apparent normal amounts of type vii collagen within their skin . in contrast , six ( 86 % ) of seven patients with the inversa variant had normal expression of the antigen . only 25 % of all patients with rdeb lacked the 19-dej-1 antigen ; of these , however , most had the gravis variant , although absence or diminution was also infrequently observed in those with the mitis and inversa forms . intermediate findings were noted in patients classified as having indeterminant forms of rdeb . some variability in antigen expression was also noted among affected siblings . we conclude that assessment of expression of the lh 7:2 epitope of type vii collagen may be diagnostically useful , although considerable overlap does exist between individual patients with gravis and mitis forms . 19-dej-1 expression is a far less sensitive probe in rdeb , although such data may prove useful in the assessment of newborns lacking the characteristic features of gravis disease . in addition , based on our experience with inversa rdeb , it would appear that altered expression of type vii collagen can not be attributed to blister formation in this latter rare subset , since this antigen is usually strongly detected along the dermoepidermal junction , even in perilesional skin sites . 
' cystic papilloma ' in humans ? demonstration of human papillomavirus in plantar epidermoid cysts . fourteen cases of plantar epidermoid cyst were studied immunohistochemically and five of them were also studied electron microscopically for the presence of human papillomavirus . in eleven cases , the test results were positive for papillomavirus antigens , and in five of them , papillomaviruslike particles were observed by electron microscopy . histological examination showed most of the cysts to contain intracytoplasmic eosinophilic bodies in cells of the cyst wall as well as the vacuolar structures in the keratinous mass within the cavity . these findings suggest an etiologic association between the papillomavirus and plantar epidermoid cysts . the " cystic papilloma " produced in rabbits by the shope papillomavirus has been clearly demonstrated . we propose that human papillomaviruses play an important role in the genesis of plantar epidermoid cysts . this is the first report on the possible existence of a cystic papilloma in humans . 
the pretear characteristics of pigment epithelial detachments . a study of 40 eyes . retinal pigment epithelial tears are a major complication of pigment epithelial detachment ( ped ) in the elderly . we observed the pretear process of ped in 38 patients ( 40 eyes ) to identify characteristic angiographic changes . before the tear occurred , the filling pattern of the ped underwent alterations , including an increase in the size and a modification in the shape of the ped ( 27 eyes ) ; the development of notches ( 14 eyes ) ; and the onset or increase of subretinal fluid , hard exudates , and/or hemorrhages ( 30 eyes ) . the most noteworthy feature was the uneven filling of the ped , with a remarkably hypofluorescent central area that remained dark until the late angiographic frames ( 24 eyes ) . conversely , hyperfluorescence appeared early at the margins of the ped , increased progressively , and sometimes demonstrated a crenated edge . the high risk of tearing indicates that laser treatment of the retina should be considered carefully in the presence of these angiographic features . 
synovial fluid polymorphonuclear leucocytes from patients with rheumatoid arthritis have reduced mpo and nadph-oxidase activity . synovial fluid ( sf ) polymorphonuclear leucocytes ( pmn ) from patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) were compared to ra and normal circulating blood pmn . ra sf pmn were as viable as blood pmn and remained viable for up to 24 h in culture . measurement of myeloperoxidase indicated that ra sf pmn had degranulated and secreted their myeloperoxidase prior to isolation , 26.5 + / - 11.7 % being found extracellularly compared to less than 2.9 % in ra and normal blood pmn . ra sf pmn alone showed a decrease in basal nadph-oxidase activity as well as an increase in responsiveness to stimulation by chemotactic peptide during culture . stimulation of pmn with phorbol-12-myrisitate-13-acetate evoked equivalent responses in each population before and after culture . these results demonstrate a major difference in resting and receptor-mediated activation of superoxide release by ra sf pmn . together , these results have important implications in identifying the role of the activated pmn in ra . 
specific antibody response to the mycobacterial 65 kda stress protein in ankylosing spondylitis and rheumatoid arthritis . immune responses to conserved , immunogenic homologues of the mycobacterial 65 kda stress protein ( sp65 ) have been implicated in inflammatory arthritis . serum anti-sp65 was measured in as , ra and healthy controls using an indirect enzyme immunoassay with recombinant sp65 . iga anti-sp65 was elevated in 19 of 59 as patients , but the elevation in median level was not statistically significant . anti-sp65 of all isotypes was increased in ra , but achieved significance ( p less than 0.01 ) for iga only . adjusting specific antibody results for elevations in total serum ig levels reduced as and ra anti-sp65 to near normal levels , suggesting that a major component of the increased anti-sp65 may be secondary to polyclonal activation . 
limiting dilution analysis of autocytotoxic and autosuppressor t-cells in rheumatoid arthritis . limiting dilution analysis has shown that the autologous mixed lymphocyte reaction is regulated by at least two cell populations , the autocytotoxic and the autosuppressor . limiting dilution analysis in nine patients with rheumatoid arthritis has shown that there is a significant decrease in both populations when compared to 10 control subjects . the mechanism and the consequences of this decrease are not known . 
intestinal flora of patients with rheumatoid arthritis : induction of chronic arthritis in rats by cell wall fragments from isolated eubacterium aerofaciens strains . the composition of the obligate anaerobic intestinal flora of patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) differed from that of healthy subjects ( hs ) . total numbers of aerobes as well as anaerobic coccoid rods were found elevated when compared with hs . eubacterium species were found in all stool samples of both groups ; bifidobacterium species were present in seven ( ra ) and eight ( hs ) out of 10 subjects . from the flora of two ra patients and two hs eubacterium species were isolated and identified . cell wall fragments from four e. aerofaciens strains ( two from ra , two from hs ) were tested for arthritis induction in rats . all four strains induced chronic arthritis which was histologically confirmed . we concluded that in the normal intestinal flora of ra patients eubacterium species are present in high numbers ( i.e. greater than 10 ( 9 ) / g faeces ) ; cell walls from isolated e. aerofaciens strains had arthropathic properties . 
a laboratory and clinical study of pneumatic ' grip strength ' devices . the use of inflated bags or cuffs to measure grip strength is now a well established technique . the method does have a number of problems . bags of different diameter and volume were seen to give statistically significantly different pressure readings when squeezed by the same subjects . different initial pressures ( from 20 mmhg to 60 mmhg ) also gave significantly different results both in laboratory tests on a materials testing machine and when patients with rheumatoid arthritis squeezed the bag . the technique of squeezing also affected the results . despite the intrinsic drawbacks of the system , it is likely to remain in general use because of familiarity and convenience . we recommend the minimum details required when pneumodynamometer-derived data are published . 
the cycling of combination antirheumatic drug therapy in rheumatoid arthritis . in this open pilot study a combination of hydroxychloroquine , prednisolone and alternating months of treatment with sulphasalazine or oral weekly pulse methotrexate has been investigated in 16 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) refractory to a total of 67 disease suppressive medications . results at 3 months indicated significant improvements in visual analogue score for pain , joint count , ritchie index , scale of disability related to activities of daily living , esr , rheumatoid factor and c-reactive protein . this degree of improvement , however , was not maintained 6 and 12 months after commencement of treatment . pain score , ritchie index and esr were the only parameters demonstrating significant improvement at 12 months . therapy was terminated in eight patients , half due to lack of efficacy and half because of side effects . 
methylsulphasalazine in rheumatoid arthritis . methylsulphasalazine , which differs from sulphasalazine by the addition of one methyl group , may provide the benefits of the parent drug with fewer side-effects in rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) . we describe the outcome of its use in ra . of 21 patients entered into the study , 10 successfully completed 6 months of therapy ; five developed adverse effects , four withdrew for reasons unrelated to drug treatment and two stopped because of inefficacy . no serious adverse effects were reported . a statistically significant improvement in most clinical assessments was observed from weeks 8-12 onwards . significant improvement in plasma viscosity was observed and there was a trend towards improvement in serum crp , histidine and igm concentrations . there was a good correlation between mean serial changes in clinical and biochemical assessments indicating that the drug may exhibit the properties of a second-line agent . median steady-state serum concentrations of methylsulphasalazine and methylsulphapyridine were 26.6 micrograms/ml and 2.85 micrograms/ml respectively . 
remitting seronegative symmetrical synovitis with pitting oedema in young adults : a subset of rheumatoid arthritis or a distinct syndrome ? three young adult patients with seronegative symmetrical polysynovitis affecting the peripheral joints with pitting oedema of both dorsum of hands and feet are described . all of these patients had a benign course and resolved completely within 10-15 months of the onset . none developed any deformities or erosions and/or relapse of arthritis after prolonged follow-up . 
ultrasound demonstration of a superior mesenteric artery aneurysm in a patient with ehlers-danlos syndrome . a large aneurysm of the superior mesenteric artery was the presumed cause of abdominal pain in an 11-year-old girl with ehlers-danlos syndrome . this aneurysm was readily identified by ultrasonography , suggesting that this method could be the diagnostic technique of choice in this disorder . 
hemolytic uremic syndrome in patients with behcet 's disease treated with cyclosporin a : report of 2 cases . hemolytic uremic syndrome ( hus ) has been reported in patients treated with cyclosporin a ( csa ) following bone , hepatic and kidney transplantation . we report two patients with behcet 's disease ( bd ) under csa treatment because of severe uveitis , who developed hus several months after the initiation of treatment . renal biopsies showed lesions consistent with the diagnosis of the arterial form of thrombotic microangiopathy : vascular thrombosis with extensive glomerular ischemia . renal failure persisted after withdrawal of csa : one patient is in chronic renal failure ( crf ) with a 4-year follow-up ; the other died after refusal of chronic hemodialysis . in our two patients , excessive doses of csa with high trough levels are likely to have contributed to the development of hus . a rapid adjustment of csa doses and an early detection of signs of the microangiopathic process might have prevented this severe complication of csa treatment . 
analysis of il-1 and tnf-alpha gene expression in human rheumatoid synoviocytes and normal monocytes by in situ hybridization . human il-1 alpha , il-1 beta , and tnf-alpha mrna expression was examined in peripheral blood monocytes ( pbm ) from normal individuals and in primary synoviocytes isolated from patients with rheumatoid arthritis by northern blot and in situ hybridization . cells cultured in the presence or absence of lps were analyzed using in vitro synthesized 35s-labeled sense or antisense rna probes to determine the relative abundance and the cell type expressing each of the mrna for these potent inflammatory mediators . the results indicated that 72 % of the lps-stimulated pbm expressed detectable levels of il-1 alpha mrna , 89 % il-1 beta mrna , and 10 % tnf-alpha transcripts . thus , the majority of activated pbm produced both il-1 alpha and il-1 beta . experiments combining immunofluorescence for il-1 beta protein with in situ hybridization for tnf-alpha mrna demonstrated that monocytes expressing tnf-alpha mrna also produced il-1 beta . primary synoviocytes from four patients with ra were also examined for the mrna expression of each cytokine . northern blot analyses of total rna isolated from 0 to 72 h after lps - or mock-stimulation showed that il-1 beta mrna was the most abundantly expressed , followed by tnf-alpha . in situ hybridization revealed that il-1 beta and tnf-alpha transcripts were detected exclusively in synovial tissue macrophages . il-1 alpha mrna was not detected in these cultures by either method . 
evidence for an epidermal cytokine network . cytokines are ( glyco ) proteins that are synthesized and secreted by various cells , which bind to specific receptors on target cells and which regulate activation , proliferation , and differentiation of immune as well as non-immune cells . keratinocytes upon injury release interleukin ( il ) -1 , il-6 , il-8 , colony-stimulating factors , and tumor-necrosis factor , as well as growth and suppressor factors . there is also strong evidence for a network of interacting cytokines , which has been only partially characterized so far , maintaining a proper balance . however , excessive or insufficient production of these mediators may contribute to certain disease states , particularly those with infectious and autoimmune genesis . therefore the understanding of cytokine interactions may be helpful in elucidating the pathomechanisms of such diseases . moreover , certain cytokines , as well as their analogues and antagonists , may prove to be of therapeutic value . 
leukocyte chemoattractant cytokines of the epidermis . the constitutive production of interleukin-1 alpha-like material in normal human epidermis , its inflammatory properties , and the mechanism of its inflammatory action are briefly reviewed . the isolation of interleukin-8 from psoriatic lesions , its in vitro production , and leukocyte chemoattractant properties are also described . available evidence suggests that interleukins-1 and -8 are inflammatory cytokines of major potential importance in the induction of leukocyte infiltrates in human skin . 
interleukin-1 and interleukin-6 in psoriasis . we report on the levels of expression of il-1 and il-6 in skin from psoriasis patients . different approaches were pursued . initially , the levels of il-1 beta and il-6 were measured in suction blister fluid from lesional and uninvolved skin from psoriasis patients , using a sensitive enzyme-linked immunoabsorbent assay ( elisa ) and bio-assay . skin sections were also examined for the presence of il-1 and il-6 using il-1 beta - and il-6-specific antibodies . finally , the expression of il-1 and il-6 mrna was determined in cultured keratinocytes ( kc ) and fibroblasts from psoriasis skin . suction blister fluid from lesional and uninvolved psoriasis skin and from skin of healthy individuals did not contain detectable levels ( greater than 100 pg/ml ) of il-1 beta . blister fluid from psoriasis lesions contained low but significant levels of il-6 , whereas the serum levels of il-6 in these patients was undetectable . using cryostat skin sections and an il-1 beta-specific monoclonal antibody ( moab ) in an indirect immunoperoxidase technique , a diffuse staining in the entire epidermis was observed in sections of uninvolved skin from psoriasis patients . in cryostat sections of psoriasis lesions , a faint diffuse staining of the epidermis and a pronounced " dot-like " intracellular staining pattern was observed . on the other hand , the same il-1 beta-specific moab showed , in a indirect immunofluorescence technique using unfixed epidermal cells , bright membrane staining in epidermal cell suspensions from psoriasis lesions . slightly elevated levels of il-1 beta and il-1 alpha mrna were observed in cultured kc from psoriasis lesions as compared to those in normal kc and in the hep-2 cell line . very low levels of il-6 mrna were expressed in kc from psoriasis lesions and healthy individuals . fibroblasts from psoriasis lesions expressed extremely low levels of il-1 alpha and il-1 beta , but high levels of il-6 mrna . the results point to a paradoxical situation in psoriatic skin : blister fluid from psoriasis lesions contains no il-1 beta , whereas il-1 beta is overexpressed on the plasma membrane and in the intracellular compartment of epidermal cells . this finding may help in explaining the observed absence of il-1 in aqueous extracts of psoriatic scales . because cultured kc from psoriasis lesions express minimal levels of il-6 mrna . dermal fibroblasts , probably together with the inflammatory infiltrate , may represent a major source of il-6 in psoriasis lesions in vivo . 
a possible role for transforming growth factor-beta in systemic sclerosis . the cause of systemic sclerosis remains unknown , but cellular and molecular mechanisms possibly responsible for the characteristic clinical manifestations of fibrosis and vascular damage ( raynaud 's phenomenon , telangiectasis , digital infection , and renal arteriopathy ) are becoming understood in greater detail . one possibly important cytokine is transforming growth factor-beta ( tgf-beta ) ; its involvement is reviewed here . with regard to vascular lesions , tgf-beta has variably been shown to inhibit endothelial cell growth in vitro but to promote angiogenesis in vivo , a paradox that remains unresolved . nonetheless , an injurious activity of tgf-beta on microvascular endothelial cells could help to explain the intimal proliferation and microvascular obliteration seen . whether as a result of or as a cause of endothelial cell damage , platelet activation has been well documented in systemic sclerosis and the platelet alpha granule pool contains a large quantity of tgf-beta . tgf-beta is also produced by activated macrophages and t cells , both of which are known to occur within systemic sclerosis lesions . an important effect of tgf-beta is its stimulation of fibroblast collagen and fibronectin synthesis and their deposition into the extracellular matrix . stimulation by tgf-beta may therefore account for the fibrosis seen in the dermis and in the internal organs . direct evidence of tgf-beta involvement in systemic sclerosis is scanty , and awaits discovery of either an abnormal expression of or response to tgf-beta . the biologic effects of tgf-beta appear to be regulated at the level of activation from a latent polypeptide precursor form . descriptions of the importance of this cytokine in pathologic conditions will need to account for this activation and its regulation . nonetheless , the physiologic effects so far attributed to tgf-beta make its involvement in systemic sclerosis an attractive possibility to explain some of the manifestations of this enigmatic disease . 
abnormal cutaneous topobiology : the molecular basis for dermatopathologic mononuclear cell patterns in inflammatory skin disease . because of the identification and characterization of various adhesion molecules ( lymphocyte function associated antigen-1 , intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ) , chemotactic factors ( interleukin-8 , monocyte chemotactic/activating factor ) , and their modulatory cytokines ( gamma interferon , tumor necrosis factor ) , it is possible to begin to ascribe specific molecules to cutaneous cellular reaction patterns . the abnormal topobiology , or altered spatial distribution , of mononuclear cells , which gives rise to disease-specific patterns , was described in molecular terms . a large number of diverse skin diseases were classified into six different groups , with each group highlighting distinctive cell types , adhesion molecules , chemotactic factors , and cytokines . the diseases within each group , which share functional anatomical reaction zones , were postulated to share common pathophysiologic pathways . thus , it is now possible , as one scans the microscopic field , to look past the static images of red - and blue-stained cells and appreciate a dynamic and detailed medley of molecularly defined events emanating from the eyepiece . 
response of discoid and subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus to recombinant interferon alpha 2a . ten patients suffering from discoid lupus erythematosus ( dle ) or subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus ( scle ) were treated with interferon alpha 2a . a marked improvement or clearing of cutaneous lupus erythematosus lesions was observed in eight of them . however , the response to interferon was of short duration and within a few weeks after interferon withdrawal all patients who were improved or cleared relapsed . this study suggests that interferon alpha 2a represents a new interesting approach in the treatment of dle and scle . ongoing trials will define the optimal treatment schedule for the maintenance of interferon-induced improvement of cutaneous lupus erythematosus . 
application of beta-interferon in virus-induced papillomas . eighty patients with bilateral common warts of the extremities were treated at weekly intervals with intralesional injections of either human fibroblast interferon or placebo . lyophilized interferon ( 3 x 10 ( 6 ) units ) was diluted with 3 ml of normal sterile saline matched with identical vials of placebo . eighty sets of three vials of human fibroblast interferon or placebo were labeled either a or b by a controller who maintained the code until the experiment was completed . each patient received 0.1 x 10 ( 6 ) units of interferon into the warts on one side and placebo injections into those on the matching extremity . warts were measured each week and the progress or lack thereof was scored on a scale of -1 ( worse ) to 3 ( cured ) . therapy continued until either at least one extremity had cleared or the patient had received 10 weekly injections . a final evaluation was scored by measuring the total progress of each patient during the study . sixty-four patients were treated to completion . more than 81 % of the interferon-treated extremities were either cured or responded effectively to therapy . only 17 % of the placebo-treated lesions responded in this fashion . a statistical analysis of these data confirms the effectiveness of intralesional interferon therapy . the average number of interferon injections until cure was 5.9 + / - 1.7 . no adverse effects were observed . the applications of interferon in patients with epidermodysplasia verruciformis and flat warts were also studied . intralesional interferon beta was , to a certain degree , effective for benign lesions of epidermodysplasia verruciformis , but systemic treatments were not effective . subcutaneous interferon beta was , in an uncontrolled study , effective in 45 % of patients with flat warts . 
atlantoaxial stabilization in rheumatoid arthritis . atlantoaxial subluxation in patients with rheumatoid arthritis is common . operative stabilization is clearly indicated when signs and symptoms of spinal cord compression occur . however , many recommend early operative fusion before evidence of appreciable neural compression occurs because 1 ) the myelopathy in these patients may be irreversible ; 2 ) the overall prognosis is poor once symptoms of cord compression are present ; and 3 ) the risk of sudden death associated with atlantoaxial subluxation is increased even in asymptomatic patients . the authors believe that rheumatoid arthritis patients in relatively good health without advanced multisystem disease and less than 65 years of age should be considered for operative stabilization if mobile atlantoaxial subluxation is greater than 6 mm . seventeen patients with severe rheumatoid arthritis and atlantoaxial subluxation treated with a posterior arthrodesis are presented . a new method of fusion , devised by the senior author ( v.k.h.s. ) , was utilized in all cases . indications for operative therapy in these patients included evidence of spinal cord compression in 11 patients ( 65 % ) and mobile atlantoaxial subluxation greater than 6 mm but no signs or symptoms of cord compression in six patients ( 35 % ) . thirteen patients developed a stable osseous fusion , two patients a well-aligned fibrous union , one patient a malaligned fibrous union , and one patient died prior to evaluation of fusion stability . the details of the operative technique and management strategies are presented . several technical advantages of this method of fusion make this approach particularly useful in patients with rheumatoid arthritis . because of multisystem involvement of this disease , a high rate of osseous fusion is often difficult to achieve . 
idiopathic and glucocorticoid-induced spinal epidural lipomatosis . pathological overgrowth of the epidural fat in the spine has been described and reported nearly exclusively in patients either with cushing 's syndrome or on chronic intake of glucocorticoids for a variety of clinical disorders . the authors report four patients with documented spinal lipomatosis ( three pathologically and one radiologically ) . only one of these patients received corticosteroids , and none had an underlying endocrinological abnormality . all four patients were adult males with a mean age at onset of symptoms of 43 years ( range from 18 to 60 years ) . the symptoms ranged from simple neurogenic claudication and radicular pain to frank myelopathy . myelography followed by computerized tomography were instrumental in the diagnosis of the first three patients ; the fourth was diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging . the thoracic spine was involved in two cases and the lumbosacral area in the other two . the different treatment modalities were tailored according to the symptomatology of the patients . these included weight reduction of an overweight patient with minimal neurological findings in one case and decompressive laminectomy and fat debulking to achieve adequate cord decompression in the remaining three cases . two patients improved significantly , the condition of one stabilized , and the fourth required a second decompression at other spinal levels . the various modalities of treatment and their potential complications are discussed . 
an intracranial mass lesion in systemic xanthogranulomatosis : case report . the authors describe a 42-year-old woman with systemic xanthogranulomatosis and bilateral intraorbital tumors , who subsequently developed multiple lesions of the intracranial dura mater , spinal cord , retroperitoneum , pericardium , and mediastinum . systemic xanthogranulomatosis is histologically similar to systemic weber-christian disease , except for the absence of subcutaneous panniculitis . immunohistochemical studies suggest that this clinical entity can be differentiated from histiocytosis x , because foamy cells in systemic xanthogranulomatosis demonstrate macrophages but not t-zone histiocyte markers . differentiation of this disease from other intracranial xanthogranulomas and treatment are discussed . 
injuries of the external ear . ear injuries occur in people of all ages but predominate in active people such as wrestlers , boxers , and bike riders . the types and extent of injury are a function of the force causing the injury . shearing forces of moderate intensity cause hematoma formation , whereas greater force causes lacerations or even amputation . sharp objects cause lacerations determined by the force , direction , and point of impact . the high ratio of surface area to mass makes the auricle vulnerable to extremes of temperature . people participating in high-risk activities should wear protective headgear . the goal of treatment is to restore the normal contours while preventing infection . hematoma results in disfigurement by organization or chondritis . evacuation and pressure dressings using sterile technique correct the condition . second-degree burns are treated by regular cleansing and application of topical antimicrobials . deeper burns require debridement , biologic dressings , or burying the cartilage subcutaneously for later reconstruction . simple lacerations are closed under aseptic technique using either skin-to-skin sutures only or sutures of the skin combined with intercartilage sutures . extensive and complex lacerations require meticulous care to match all fragments and prevent infection or loss of tissue . bare cartilage must be covered with vascularized tissue . the treatment of total amputation is controversial . some advocate reattachment as a composite graft using intravenous low molecular weight dextrans and heparin as adjuvants . mladick dermabrades the amputated pinna , reattaches it with sutures , and then slips it into a pocket of elevated postauricular skin for 2 weeks . others urge microvascular reanastomosis of the small nutrient vessels . brent and byrd separate the cartilage from its overlying skin and envelope it first with vascularized temporoparietal fascia and then a split-thickness skin graft . chondritis is the most feared complication of injury or surgery of the pinna . it is an aggressive process , and prompt removal of pus and necrotic cartilage is required . exteriorization and removal of all cartilage is effective but disfiguring . removal of only affected cartilage and constant irrigation with antibiotic solutions is effective but requires prolonged hospitalization . iontophoresis of antibiotics into the auricle may be effective and conserve tissue . traumatic deformities are corrected with composite grafts from the opposite ear , costal cartilage , and local pedicled flaps . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
scar revision and camouflage . the successful revision and camouflage of facial scars is as much an art as a science , and the best teacher is continued experience ; however , common sense , a broad knowledge of available options , technical ability , and patience are all necessary if one chooses to practice in this challenging field . patients with facial scars are vulnerable in a way that few others are , and it is the responsibility of the facial plastic surgeon to evaluate these patients properly and realistically , to prepare them for a process that may involve multiple procedures , and to see them through this process with all the expertise and compassion possible . if this is done , the rewards to the patient and to the surgeon can be immeasurable . 
griseofulvin : a new look at an old drug . griseofulvin is the oral antifungal agent of choice for the treatment of dermatophytoses . this article reviews the history , pharmacokinetics , adverse reactions , and traditional therapeutic applications of griseofulvin . in addition , reports since 1960 of the use of the drug in the treatment of raynaud 's phenomenon , progressive systemic sclerosis , lichen planus , mycosis fungoides , herpes zoster , eosinophilic fasciitis , and molluscum contagiosum are discussed , noting the varying degree of therapeutic success . 
pregnancy and the risk of developing rheumatoid arthritis . there have been conflicting reports on , and no plausible biologic explanation for , a protective effect of oral contraceptive ( oc ) use on the development of rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) . therefore , we investigated aspects of behavior related to oc use that could explain the preventive effect of oc on the onset of ra . in the present case-control study , past pregnancy , age at first pregnancy , and pregnancies with adverse outcome were studied as possible risk factors for ra . interview information on reproductive variables was obtained from 135 young adult women with confirmed definite or classic ra of recent onset , and from 378 control patients with soft tissue rheumatic disorders or osteoarthritis . all patients had at least 2 years of followup to confirm the consistency of the diagnosis . we found a decreased risk of ra in women who had been pregnant . the risk of ra in women who had ever been pregnant compared with women who had never been pregnant was 0.49 ( 95 % confidence interval 0.27-0 .91 ) . the earlier the first pregnancy , the lower the risk of ra . pregnancy with adverse outcome ( i.e. , gestation less than 25 weeks ) did not substantially change the risk of ra ( relative risk 0.73 , 95 % confidence interval 0.50-1 .07 ) . the protective effect of pregnancy was independent of oc use , the presence of hla-dr4 , or a family history of ra . immune modulation by female hormonal influences could be an explanation for the results of the present study . 
autoantibody to th ribonucleoprotein ( nucleolar 7-2 rna protein particle ) in patients with systemic sclerosis . we studied sera of 371 consecutive new patients with systemic sclerosis ( ssc ; scleroderma ) who were first evaluated during 1984-1988 . all sera were tested for antinuclear antibodies by immunofluorescence staining using hep-2 cells as substrate . we excluded 219 sera showing dark nucleoli and screened for antibodies to th in the remaining 152 sera by immunoprecipitation of a 32p-labeled hela cell extract . fifteen ( 4.0 % ) of 371 sera were anti-th + . anti-th antibodies were present in 14 ( 8.4 % ) of 167 ssc patients with limited cutaneous involvement , in 1 of 167 with diffuse cutaneous involvement , and in 0 of 37 with ssc overlap syndrome . among 244 controls with other connective tissue diseases , anti-th was detected in only 3 patients , all having primary raynaud 's phenomenon of less than 2 years duration . in the subgroup with ssc with limited cutaneous involvement , the 14 anti-th + patients had a significantly greater frequency of puffy fingers , small bowel involvement , and hypothyroidism , and a significantly lower frequency of arthralgia and/or arthritis . their cumulative survival rate from the time of onset of symptoms was lower than that for anti-th - patients ( 78 % versus 91 % at 10 years ) , primarily due to 3 deaths from pulmonary arterial hypertension ( 2 from primary pulmonary hypertension and 1 from pulmonary hypertension secondary to pulmonary interstitial fibrosis ) . serum anti-th antibodies are present almost exclusively in patients with ssc with limited cutaneous involvement or in those with primary raynaud 's phenomenon whose disease may evolve to ssc with limited cutaneous involvement , and these antibodies may identify those patients who are at greater risk for reduced survival . 
increased expression of type vi collagen genes in systemic sclerosis . the expression of type vi collagen genes in affected skin from patients with systemic sclerosis ( ssc ) was examined by in situ hybridizations with a human alpha 2 ( vi ) collagen sequence-specific complementary dna . five patients with diffuse , rapidly progressive ssc of recent onset ( less than 12 months ) were studied . the results showed increased expression of alpha 2 ( vi ) collagen messenger rna transcripts in the skin of scleroderma patients compared with that in the skin of normal subjects . these findings indicate that alterations in the expression of type vi collagen genes , similar to those previously described for types i and iii collagen , are present in the affected skin of ssc patients . these alterations may result in excessive tissue accumulation of type vi collagen and may play a role in the progressive skin induration and sclerosis that are prominent features of ssc . 
increased expression of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 on the fibroblasts of scleroderma patients . the surface expression of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 ( icam-1 ) and class i and class ii major histocompatibility complex molecules on cultured dermal fibroblasts from 7 scleroderma patients and 6 control donors was compared . scleroderma fibroblast lines contained 41.0 + / - 3.0 % ( mean + / - sem ) cells with high levels of icam-1 expression ( icam-1-high ) , whereas 26.9 + / - 1.5 % of control fibroblasts were icam-1-high ( p = 0.0003 ) . there were no differences in the expression of class i and class ii molecules . icam-1-high and icam-1-low fibroblasts produced equal amounts of total protein and procollagen . the increase in the number of icam-1-high fibroblasts in scleroderma patients may facilitate t cell activation and lymphokine production , and thus indirectly contribute to the fibrotic process . 
seronegative juvenile rheumatoid arthritis and mast cell-associated gastritis . we describe 4 children with seronegative inflammatory arthritis who had persistent , severe nausea and abdominal pain over several months , in spite of vigorous medical therapy , including antacids and histamine h2 receptor antagonists . endoscopy and biopsy of gastric and duodenal mucosa showed antral gastritis and an increased number of mast cells in 3 of the 4 patients . in the fourth patient , urinary histamine levels were elevated . these findings suggest an association between inflammatory arthritis and localized mast cell disease in some individuals . further studies are needed to determine whether this association represents an independent syndrome or whether mast cell-related disease is secondary to long-term treatment with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs in children with mild arthritis . 
association of hla-dw16 with rheumatoid arthritis in yakima indians . further evidence for the " shared epitope " hypothesis . rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) is prevalent in yakima indians , a native american tribe . hla-dr4 , the hla specificity commonly associated with ra in caucasians , is rare among the yakima . using a specific oligonucleotide probe that recognizes dr4 nucleotide sequences associated with ra , a rare hla-dw16 gene was identified in 83 % of yakima patients with ra and in 60 % of yakima control subjects . this shared sequence encodes a discrete class ii epitope that is highly correlated with ra in both dr4 positive and dr4 negative individuals . 
risk factors for transmission of hepatitis b virus to gambian children [ published erratum appears in lancet 1990 dec 22-29 ; 336 ( 8730 ) :1596 ] risk factors for hepatitis b virus transmission were examined in 973 gambian children aged 6 months to 5 years . 33 % had evidence of infection with hepatitis b virus and a third of these were carriers . a significant association was found between infection and tropical ulcer scars , and between e antigenaemia and the presence of bedbugs in each child 's bed . there was no association between infection and traditional scarring , circumcision , or injections . skin disease and arthropods are the two most likely modes of transmission of hepatitis b virus between children in west africa . 
identification of a platelet dense granule membrane protein that is deficient in a patient with the hermansky-pudlak syndrome . monoclonal antibodies were raised after injecting mice with isolated human dense granules . several of these monoclonals were found to recognize a 40-kd dense granule membrane protein . western blot and immunofluorescent analysis confirmed the dense-granule specificity . after thrombin activation , the protein was found in patches on the external platelet membrane . by western blot and slot blot analysis , the protein was found to be markedly deficient in a patient with the hermansky-pudlak syndrome . studies of neutrophils and endothelial cells show the presence of immunologically related granule-membrane protein ( s ) . western blots using four anti-synaptophysin antibodies and three antibodies to the platelet 40-kd protein suggest that the protein may share some homology with , but is not identical to , the synaptosomal membrane protein synaptophysin . 
long-term results of posterior release surgery for severe flexion contracture of the knee in patients with rheumatoid arthritis . twelve knees in nine rheumatoid patients with severe flexion contractures were evaluated clinically and roentgenographically for an average of 17.2 years ( range , six to 25 years ) after posterior release surgery . preoperatively , the average extension in the 12 knees was 42.5 degrees , and postoperatively it was 10.8 degrees . even though patients were able to walk postoperatively , the majority had knee pain when they extended their knees soon after surgery . seven knees required further surgery after correction of the flexion deformity . the average time before reconstructive surgery after posterior release was 11.1 months . in the treatment of severe flexion deformities of the knee in patients with rheumatoid arthritis , posterior release surgery was effective only in correcting the deformity . posterior subluxation of the tibia , knee pain , and instability occurred soon after surgery . therefore , patients may require additional reconstructive surgery soon after the posterior release . 
razor-blade surgery . the razor blade can be a valuable tool in the performance of many minor surgical procedures . it is extremely sharp , flexible , inexpensive , readily available , and easy to use . the technique and specific applications are reviewed and discussed . 
the transverse anatomy of androgenic alopecia . twenty-five biopsy specimens from the balding frontal scalp of five patients were studied . processing included vertical and transverse ( horizontal ) sectioning , toluidine blue and hematoxylin and eosin staining , and fixed and frozen sectioning . findings included decreased hair density , increased numbers of vellus hairs , and alteration of the normal follicular architecture . transverse frozen sectioning with toluidine blue staining appeared to be a rapid and reliable tool for studying androgenic alopecia . 
basal cell carcinoma arising in pemphigus vulgaris of the lower eyelid . a 59-year-old woman on continuous treatment with corticosteroids and immunosuppressive drugs for pemphigus vulgaris of 14 year 's duration presented with an enlarging nodular lesion on the right lower eyelid . the neoplasm , diagnosed as basal cell carcinoma , was excised conserving the lid margin , and eyelid reconstruction was done with a rotated cheek flap . wound healing proceeded without complications in spite of immunosuppressive treatment , and the final cosmetic and functional result was satisfactory . 
urticaria : current therapy . although the ideal treatment for urticaria is identification and removal of its cause , no underlying cause can be discerned in the majority of instances . the chief clinical problem is the treatment of chronic idiopathic urticaria . h1-receptor antagonists are the major class of therapeutic agents used in the management of chronic idiopathic urticaria . the h1 antagonists have been divided into subgroups based on their chemical structure . the second-generation h1 antagonists now available are particularly advantageous for individuals who must remain alert while working . terbutaline , a beta-adrenergic agonist , is of occasional benefit as an adjunct therapy in combination with an h1 antagonist . the oral administration of disodium cromoglycate is ineffective in patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria , although a few individuals with urticaria caused by food allergy may respond to this drug . it is best to avoid repeated injections of epinephrine and the systemic administration of corticosteroids . urticaria has a capricious course : it may respond to the administration of placebos or it may resolve spontaneously . about 50 % of the patients with urticaria are free of lesions within 1 year , but 20 % continue to have episodes for more than 20 years . 
urticaria : clinical efficacy of cetirizine in comparison with hydroxyzine and placebo . chronic urticaria is a problem for both physician and patient . in an effort to avoid the risks associated with corticosteroid treatment , many first-generation h1-receptor antagonists have been tried and found to induce undesirable levels of sedation when given in amounts sufficient to control urticaria . cetirizine , a pharmacologically active oxidized metabolite of hydroxyzine , was developed to provide selective h1-receptor inhibition without depression of the central nervous system . in a 4-week , multicenter , double-blind , placebo-controlled safety and efficacy study , cetirizine , in a once-a-day dose ( 5 to 20 mg ) , was equivalent in efficacy to hydroxyzine in divided doses ( 25 to 75 mg/day ) . the incidence of somnolence in the cetirizine group was not significantly different from that of the placebo group . however , in the hydroxyzine group , the incidence of somnolence was significantly higher than that in the placebo group ( p = 0.001 ) . the results of this study demonstrate that cetirizine has a greater safety margin over the older parent drug hydroxyzine . 
phase ii trial of whole-cell pertussis vaccine vs an acellular vaccine containing agglutinogens . an acellular pertussis vaccine containing agglutinogens 2 and 3 , pertussis toxin , and filamentous haemagglutinin was developed by the centre for applied microbiology and research in the uk . 188 infants were entered into a randomised blind trial and received either the acellular or a whole-cell vaccine , combined with diphtheria and tetanus toxoids , in a 3 , 5 , and 8-10 month schedule . local reactions were similar in the two groups but significantly fewer infants had systemic symptoms after the acellular vaccine . mean log-antibody titres to the agglutinogen and toxin components were higher with the acellular than with the whole-cell vaccine . persistence of antibodies one year after the third dose was also better in the acellular group . 
gingival and cutaneous xanthomatosis associated with primary biliary cirrhosis . report of a case . the first comprehensive case report of intraoral xanthomatosis associated with primary biliary cirrhosis is detailed . the lesions were present along the free gingival margin and labial vestibule . crevicular fluid was noted to be tinged yellow . generalized cutaneous eruptions were also seen . the xanthomas were attributed to the underlying hyperlipoproteinemia . advanced progression of the hepatic disease necessitated a liver transplant . disappearance of both oral and skin lesions were subsequently observed . 
oral melanotic macules in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus . a group of 217 patients seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) were studied for 2 years , during which time pigmented lesions of the oral mucosa developed in 14 ( 6.4 % ) of them . the lesions were well circumscribed in some cases and diffuse in others . in some patients the macules enlarged or recurred after surgical excision . in two patients the macules appeared during the administration of zidovudine . clinical and laboratory evidence of adrenal insufficiency was not detected in any of the patients examined . the histologic appearances were those of melanotic macules . no ultrastructural alterations of the melanocytes were observed . two of these macules also contained epstein-barr virus , and in one case normal oral mucosa was examined and also contained epstein-barr virus in the epithelial cells . as a control group we examined 180 health care workers who did not belong to any risk category , and 30 intravenous drug abusers who tested seronegative to hiv . oral melanotic pigmentation was found in eight of the control subjects ( 3.6 % ) . the difference was not statistically significant ( p = 0.3097 ) . our study shows that oral macules do not occur more frequently in hiv-infected patients . however , the clinical behavior of these lesions appears to be different during the course of hiv infection . in some hiv-infected patients the cause of the macules might relate to the administration of zidovudine and antifungal or antibacterial drugs . in others the cause remains unknown and could be due to multiple factors . 
human papillomaviruses : pediatric perspectives on a family of multifaceted tumorigenic pathogens as summarized here human papillomaviruses are associated with a wide spectrum of epithelial lesions , ranging from benign warts to invasive carcinomas . they have been difficult to study in part because they have not yet been propagated in tissue culture . fortunately advances in molecular biology have allowed characterization of hpv genomes and identification of some hpv gene functions . in addition to their clinical importance hpvs represent an important tool for exploring virus-cell interactions , gene expression , cellular differentiation and cancer . hpv infections are not only common but also difficult to treat and prevent . depending on the hpv type and location , the modes of hpv transmission may involve casual physical contact , sexual contact and perinatal vertical transmission . hpv dna genomes replicate at a low copy number in basal cells and , as most clinicians know , are difficult to eradicate . there is often a long latent period and subclinical infections , and hpv dna can be found in normal tissue adjacent to lesions . hpvs can cause widely disseminated lesions , especially in the immunocompromised host and in epidermodysplasia verruciformis . aside from the rare carcinomas , the most serious life-threatening hpv-induced illness in children is recurrent respiratory papillomatosis . somewhat surprisingly in malignant lesions hpv dna is also found as fragments incorporated into the cellular genome . unlike retroviruses such as human immunodeficiency virus which integrate into the cellular genome as part of their life cycle , hpv integration is a terminal event for viral replication . such integration may be critical , however , for viral-induced abnormal cell growth . perhaps the most important implication of the finding that some anogenital cancers are in part sexually transmitted infectious diseases is that they may be preventable . the data overwhelmingly suggest that avoidance of exposure to hpv via abstinence or monogamy in both partners markedly reduces the risk of cervical cancer . a more realistic goal , however is prevention of hpv transmission by the use of barrier method contraceptives , which may be protective against development of cervical carcinoma . the america association of pediatrics committee on adolescents has outlined the obligation of pediatricians to be actively involved in adolescent education on sexually transmitted diseases . certainly a fundamental knowledge of hpv epidemiology , the risks of hpv-related sequelae and prevention of hpv infection are important considerations for adolescent sexuality . although helpful , such awareness alone falls far short of making an impact on sexual behaviors . a significant reduction in hpv infection rates could be achieved only by inundating adolescents at an early age with a highly visible society-wide campaign directed at these issues . 
the butterfly rash and the malar flush . what diseases do these signs reflect ? the butterfly rash and malar flush are common facial manifestations of several disorders . systemic lupus erythematosus may produce a transient rash before any other signs . in pellagra , symmetric keratotic areas on the face are always accompanied by lesions elsewhere on the body . erysipelas produces brawny , fiery red facial lesions , and scarlet fever causes facial eruptions as part of a generalized eruption . lupus vulgaris and lupus pernio produce nodules that may spread in a butterfly pattern , and seborrheic dermatitis has a predilection for the malar prominences and other areas of the face . carcinoid syndrome often causes flushing attacks that vary in duration , and facial flushing that lasts throughout treatment may accompany chemotherapy if the patient has a hypersensitivity reaction . deep-red rashes and/or lichenoid lesions may be caused by graft-versus-host disease in a patient undergoing bone marrow transplantation . 
motor-evoked potentials in patients with cervical spine disorders . measurements of motor-evoked potentials by means of fractionated magnetic stimulation of motor pathways to the upper limbs was performed as part of the clinical assessment in 268 patients with cervical spine disorders . seventy-two percent of the 127 patients with degenerative changes of the cervical spine , 67 % of the 55 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) , and 57 % of the 51 patients with trauma of the cervical spine showed a pathologic delay of central motor latency ( cml ) . the data suggest that this method has a high sensitivity and therefore is recommended in the diagnosis of cervical spine disorders in patients with suspected compression of neural structures . 
the neurologic workup in patients with cervical spine disorders . care must be exercised in interpreting the clinical and radiologic findings when assessing patients with cervical spondylosis and involvement of neural structures for surgery . if the clinical picture can not logically be explained by the radiologic findings , further investigation is indicated to exclude a coexistent disorder . investigations may include electrophysiologic tests , transcranial magnetic stimulation , cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) analysis , and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) . only then can the indication for surgical intervention be properly determined . 
oxidative damage to lipids within the inflamed human joint provides evidence of radical-mediated hypoxic-reperfusion injury . previous work has established the existence of a pathophysiological environment within the inflamed human joint , capable of sustaining a hypoxic-reperfusion event . using four different assay systems ( two standard and two novel ) applied to synovial fluid for the assessment of lipid peroxidation , a series of studies demonstrate that exercise of the inflamed human knee promotes radical-mediated lipid peroxidation within the joint . the implication for novel antioxidant therapeutic approaches to inflammatory joint disease is discussed . 
marfanoid children . etiologic heterogeneity and cardiac findings . the clinical , cardiac , and echocardiographic test results of 20 children with marfanoid features are reviewed . fifteen were diagnosed as having marfan syndrome , two had " possible " marfan syndrome , and three had other diagnoses . on first evaluation , eight patients with marfan syndrome ( 53 % ) had mitral regurgitation and none had aortic regurgitation . echocardiography showed aortic root enlargement in 12 ( 80 % ) of 15 patients and mitral valve prolapse in 12 ( 80 % ) of 15 . none had a normal echocardiogram . at follow-up examination , one patient had developed aortic root enlargement , and one patient , mitral valve prolapse . thus , although aortic root enlargement is usually present in early childhood in patients with marfan syndrome , it is not considered specific because in this study it also occurred in one child with alport 's syndrome and in one with marfanoid features . four patients with aortic root enlargement were treated with propranolol and their echocardiograms showed no further increase in the aortic root diameter for several years . we recommend echocardiography in the diagnosis and routine management of children in whom marfan syndrome is suspected . 
localization of dna sequences to a region within xp11 .21 between incontinentia pigmenti ( ip1 ) x-chromosomal translocation breakpoints . incontinentia pigmenti ( ip ) is an x-linked dominant disorder characterized by developmental anomalies of the tissues and organs derived from embryonic ectoderm and neuroectoderm . an ip locus , designated ip1 , probably resides in xp11 .21 , since five unrelated patients with nonfamilial ip have been identified who possess constitutional de novo reciprocal x ; autosome translocations involving xp11 .21 . we have used a series of somatic cell hybrids containing the rearranged chromosomes derived from three of the five ip1 patients , along with other hybrid cell lines , to map probes in the vicinity of the ip1 locus . five anonymous dna loci -- dxs422 , dxs14 , dxs343 , dxs429 , and dxs370 -- have been mapped to a region within xp11 .21 , between two ip1 x-chromosomal translocation breakpoints ; the ip1 t ( x ; 17 ) breakpoint is proximal ( centromeric ) to this region , and the ip1 t ( x ; 13 ) and t ( x ; 9 ) x-chromosomal breakpoints lie distal to it . while no ip1 translocation breakpoint has yet been identified by pulsed-field gel electrophoretic ( pfge ) analysis , an overlap between three probes -- p58-1 , 7psh3 .5 , and cpx210 -- has been detected , placing these probes within 125 kb . four probes -- p58-1 , 7psh3 .5 , cpx210 , and 30ce2 .8 -- have been helpful in constructing a 1,250-kb pfge map of the region between the breakpoints ; these results suggest that the ip1 x-chromosomal translocation breakpoints are separated by at least this distance . the combined somatic cell hybrid and pfge analyses we report here favor the probe order dxs323 - ( ip1 t ( x ; 13 ) , ip1 , t ( x ; 9 ] - ( dxs422 , dxs14 , dxs343 , dxs429 , dxs370 ) - ( ip1 t ( x ; 17 ) , dxz1 ) . these sequences provide a starting point for identifying overlapping genomic sequences that span the ip1 translocation breakpoints ; the availability of ip1 translocation breakpoints should now assist the cloning of this locus . 
immunochemical studies of ferrochelatase protein : characterization of the normal and mutant protein in bovine and human protoporphyria . protoporphyria is a hereditary disorder characterized by a marked decrease in the activity of ferrochelatase , the terminal enzyme in the heme biosynthetic pathway . we have prepared specific polyvalent antibodies against bovine ferrochelatase in rabbits . the specificity of the antibody preparation against ferrochelatase was demonstrated by western blot analysis and immunoprecipitation of ferrochelatase activity . the antibody also cross-reacted weakly with ferrochelatase from human mitochondria . to quantify immunoreactive ferrochelatase in tissue samples , a kinetic-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( k-elisa ) was developed . ferrochelatase activity and the level of immunoreactive protein were measured in hepatic mitochondria isolated from six normal and nine protoporphyric ( homozygous ) cattle . ferrochelatase activity was less than 10 % of normal in mitochondria from protoporphyric animals ; the amount of immunoreactive material was equivalent to that from normal animals . similar studies were performed with samples from three normal and two protoporphyric ( heterozygous ) humans . ferrochelatase activity was decreased in protoporphyric samples ( about 17 % of normal , but there was no concomitant decrease in immunoreactive material . these data demonstrate that a normal amount of ferrochelatase protein is present and suggest that bovine and human protoporphyria result from point mutations in the gene encoding ferrochelatase . 
left ventricular aneurysm secondary to behcet 's disease . a 16-year-old boy with behcet 's disease who was seen with thrombophlebitis of the leg was found to have coronary artery occlusion with postinfarction left ventricular aneurysm . recurrent femoral artery aneurysms and orogenital ulceration developed in him . the diagnostic features together with successful treatment of this patient and a discussion of behcet 's syndrome are presented . 
the effects of age and peripheral vascular disease on the circulatory and mechanical response of skin to loading . the skin and subcutaneous soft tissues of amputation residual limbs are required to withstand externally applied loads of greater magnitude than similar tissues of the intact lower limb . increased age and poor circulatory status may contribute to the increased risk of tissue injury seen in this population . this study evaluates the effects of age and circulatory status as risk factors for skin injury resulting from externally applied forces . twelve young control ( yc ) , six elderly control ( oc ) and 11 subjects with peripheral vascular disease ( pvd ) were studied . after base-line ankle arm index ( aai ) measurements , tcpo2 electrodes were applied 10 cm below the knee over the medial surface of the tibia and the muscle belly of tibialis anterior . tcpo2 measurements and tissue displacements were obtained under the influence of incremented , normally oriented , external loads . the sensitivity of the tissues to applied loads was determined by calculating the load at which the tcpo2 reached zero . the stiffness of the tissues ( displacement/load ) was calculated under high ( greater than 40 mm hg ) and low ( less than 20 mm hg ) loading conditions . no difference was noted in tissue sensitivity to applied loads between the oc and yc populations . the tcpo2 decreased to zero in the pvd population at significantly lower applied loads than both the oc and yc populations . the tissue stiffness of the pvd and the oc populations over bone was greater than the yc population , but no significant differences were noted between the pvd and the oc populations . in summary , increased age does not result in a greater tissue sensitivity to externally applied loads , in spite of the demonstrated increased tissue stiffness . 
massive histamine release in a patient with systemic mastocytosis . we have measured plasma histamine concentrations , systemic vascular resistance , cardiac output and arterial pressure during laparotomy in a patient with systemic mastocytosis . the patient developed vasodilation and hypotension during surgery , associated with a massive increase in plasma histamine concentration . 
langerhans cells but not monocytes are capable of antigen presentation in vitro in corticosteroid contact hypersensitivity . corticosteroids suppress delayed-type hypersensitivity ( dth ) reactions in vivo and impair lymphoid cell functions in vitro . in contact hypersensitivity ( chs ) to corticosteroids , however , the corticosteroids are capable of inducing dth responses in vivo . the present study examined the capacity of corticosteroids to induce in vitro proliferation of t lymphocytes from patients with chs to corticosteroids . with peripheral blood mononuclear adherent cells as antigen-presenting cells ( apc ) and hydrocortisone-17-butyrate ( h-17-b ) as hapten , no proliferation responses were detected of t lymphocytes from patients with chs to h-17-b . however , when epidermal langerhans cells ( lc ) were used as apc , weak proliferation responses were observed . 
silica-associated systemic sclerosis is clinically , serologically and immunologically indistinguishable from idiopathic systemic sclerosis . to determine whether the clinical , immunological and serological features of patients with silica-associated systemic sclerosis are different from patients with the ' idiopathic ' form of systemic sclerosis ( ss ) we studied 22 underground coal miners who were exposed to silica dust ( sd ) , 30 mine workers who later developed silicosis ( s ) and 17 mine workers exposed to silica dust who subsequently developed a systemic sclerosis-like disease ( sa-ss ) . the patients with sa-ss had features clinically indistinguishable from individual patients with ss . they all had raynaud 's phenomenon , 14 had cutaneous sclerosis identical to that seen in acrosclerosis and three had a generalized cutaneous sclerosis . sixteen patients had bibasilar pulmonary fibrosis , 10 had necrosis of the fingertip pulps , nine had oesophageal involvement and only one patient had renal involvement . antinuclear antibodies and circulating immune complexes were detected in three and eight patients with sd , 14 and five patients with s and in 16 and nine patients with sa-ss , respectively . anti-scl-70 antibody was detected in eight of the 17 patients with sa-ss . evidence for in vivo endothelial cell damage , as determined by elevated levels of von willebrand factor , was found in nine patients with sd , 14 patients with s and in 10 patients with sa-ss . following incubation of the patient 's serum with confluent cultures of human umbilical vein endothelial cells there was only a significant reduction in calcium ionophore-induced release of prostacyclin with the serum from sa-ss patients compared to that with control serum ( nc ) . the mean + / - sem release of 6-keto-pgf1 alpha ( the stable metabolite of prostacyclin expressed as ng/10 ( 4 ) cells ) decreased from 2.90 + / - 0.27 to 2.01 + / - 0.33 ( sd ) , 3.34 + / - 0.42 to 1.76 + / - 0.31 ( s ) , 1.98 + / - 0.12 to 0.64 + / - 0.07 ( sa-ss ) and 2.28 + / - 0.33 to 1.36 + / - 0.21 ( nc ) with 1 and 20 % serum , respectively . this study demonstrates that immune complex and antinuclear antibody formation and in vivo endothelial cell damage occurs following occupational exposure to silica . the patients who subsequently develop a systemic sclerosis-like disease have clinical , immunological and serological features which are indistinguishable from the idiopathic form of the disease although as a group the sa-ss patients have a higher prevalence of pulmonary involvement and the anti-scl-70 antibody . 
the changing face of dermatology out-patient referrals in the south-east of scotland . a study of out-patient dermatological services ( nhs and private ) in the south-east of scotland was carried out by medical staff in the department of dermatology in edinburgh during the month of november 1988 . the aim was to assess changes in referral patterns and workload compared with the findings of an identical investigation undertaken in november 1981 . of particular interest were the possible effects of recent publicity campaigns aimed at increasing public awareness about skin cancer . the medical complement of the dermatology department had changed minimally since 1981 and the population increase in the south-east of scotland over the same period was 1.5 % . during november 1988 1592 new patients and 2037 review patients were seen . this represented an increase of 29.2 % and 28.3 % , respectively , since 1981 . the most striking changes in diagnostic groups were a 173 % rise in new cases presenting with benign tumours ( excluding viral warts ) and a 106 % increase in new patients with malignant tumours . viral warts and eczema were , as in 1981 , the second and third most common diagnostic categories amongst new patients . there was a 98 % increase in the number of surgical procedures performed on new patients compared with 1981 . we conclude that the substantial increase in numbers of both benign and malignant tumours and the consequent doubling in surgical treatments was due to increased public awareness and concern about skin cancer . 
validation of sickness impact profile and psoriasis disability index in psoriasis . a prospective cross-sectional questionnaire study of 32 patients with psoriasis was carried out in order to validate the use of the sickness impact profile ( sip ) in psoriasis and compare its sensitivity with the psoriasis disability index ( pdi ) . overall pdi scores , but not overall sip scores , correlated well with pasi scores ( p less than 0.05 ) . there was good correlation between the pdi and overall sip scores ( p less than 0.01 ) . psychosocial factors are more severely impaired than physical activities in patients with psoriasis . it is now possible to directly compare the disability experienced by psoriatic patients with that experienced by patients suffering from other systemic diseases , using the sip . the pdi is an appropriate method to give a rapid overall measure of psoriasis disability . 
epidermal dendritic s100 positive cells in necrobiosis lipoidica and granuloma annulare . using an antibody to s100 protein , the number of dendritic cells above the basal layer in the epidermis was assessed in necrobiosis lipoidica and granuloma annulare . a statistically significantly higher number of these cells was found within the epidermis in necrobiosis lipoidica compared with granuloma annulare and normal skin . the numbers were similar to those seen in sarcoidosis and tuberculous reactions in the skin , which raises the possibility of an immune pathogenesis for necrobiosis lipoidica . 
anxiety and depression in patients with chronic urticaria and generalized pruritus . thirty-four dermatology out-patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria and 34 with idiopathic generalized pruritus were investigated using standardized self-assessment psychological questionnaires to determine the incidence of significant symptoms of depression and anxiety . these patients were compared with age - and sex-matched but otherwise unselected general dermatology out-patients . using the beck depression inventory , significantly more patients with generalized pruritus ( 32.4 % ) had depressive symptomatology ( score greater than 14 ) than controls ( 13.2 % , p less than 0.05 ) . although more patients with chronic urticaria had depressive symptomatology ( 14.7 % ) than controls ( 4.4 % ) , the difference was not statistically significant . using the speilberger state-trait anxiety inventory there were no significant differences between the patients with pruritus or urticaria and their controls with respect to state or trait anxiety scores above the upper 90 % probability limit for the general population . thus , significant depression may be expected in a substantial proportion of patients with idiopathic generalized pruritus but in a relatively small proportion of those with chronic urticaria . 
topical treatment of necrotic foot ulcers in diabetic patients : a comparative trial of duoderm and mezinc . an open randomized controlled study was carried out of 44 diabetic patients with necrotic foot ulcers treated with adhesive zinc oxide tape ( mezinc ) or with an adhesive occlusive hydrocolloid dressing ( duoderm ) . fourteen of the 21 patients treated with mezinc had their necrotic ulcers improved by at least 50 % compared to six out of 21 with the hydrocolloid dressing ( p less than 0.025 ) . fifteen patients showed an increase in the area of necrosis during the course of the 5-week study and of these , 10 had been treated with the hydrocolloid dressing . 
erythema multiforme major in a 2-month-old child with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . a case is presented of severe erythema multiforme occurring in a 2-month-old boy from zimbabwe which was probably triggered by phenobarbitone . he later developed the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and serological tests suggested that it was a congenital hiv-i infection . 
necrolytic migratory erythema : association with neuroendocrine tumour with predominant insulin secretion . we report a case of necrolytic migratory erythema in association with a neuroendocrine tumour producing predominantly insulin . as far as we know this has not been observed before . 
yield from total skin examination and effectiveness of skin cancer awareness program . findings in 874 new dermatology patients . the authors reviewed 874 dermatology charts to assess the acceptance rate of total skin examination ( tse ) , incidental skin findings , and patient compliance regarding treatment recommendations . of the 874 new dermatology patients studied , 707 ( 80.9 % ) agreed to tse . important incidental findings were found in 151 ( 21.4 % ) . these included : ( 1 ) biopsy specimen-confirmed malignant tumors ( malignant melanoma , lentigo maligna , and basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma ) in 24 of the 707 patients ( 3.4 % ) , ( 2 ) biopsy specimen-confirmed premalignant tumors ( actinic keratosis with dysplasia , bowenoid actinic keratosis , bowenoid papulosis , and lentigo with dysplasia , in five ( 0.7 % ) , ( 3 ) clinically diagnosed premalignant actinic keratosis in 64 ( 9.1 % ) , ( 4 ) biopsy specimen-confirmed dysplastic nevi in 17 ( 2.4 % ) , and ( 5 ) congenital nevi in 41 ( 5.8 % ) . only 4.2 % of the patients returned for a yearly tse , and only 6.0 % were found to follow all recommendations for monthly self examination , yearly professional examination , and sun protection . it is concluded that tse for all new patients , and on a yearly basis for all return patients , is valuable in the detection of many skin conditions and allows skin cancer screening to be done , since patients for the most part do not follow recommendations for at-home screening . 
a report on radiation-induced gliomas . radiation-induced gliomas are uncommon , with only 73 cases on record to date . the disease that most frequently occasioned radiation therapy has been acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) . three more cases are added here , two after irradiation for all and one after irradiation for tinea capitis . in a review of the relevant literature , the authors stress the possibility that the all-glioma and the retinoblastoma-glioma links point to syndromes in their own right that may occur without radiation therapy . 
systemic mastocytosis presenting as osteoporosis : a clinical and histomorphometric study . ten patients with systemic mastocytosis ( sm ) were evaluated for their metabolic bone disease ( 4 men and 6 women ; mean + / - sd , 59 + / - 13 yr ) . all patients presented with generalized osteopenia and/or atraumatic vertebral compression fractures . three patients had long-standing urticaria pigmentosa ; in these , the diagnosis of cutaneous mastocytosis had been established by skin biopsy . one of the 3 and 2 of the other 7 individuals had symptoms suggestive of sm . although six patients had previously undergone decalcified bone marrow trephine core biopsy ( dbmb ) , findings were consistent with sm in only 2 of them . x-ray survey revealed generalized osteopenia in all 10 patients and vertebral compression fractures in 9 . no patient had sclerotic bone lesions . histological findings of undecalcified transiliac crest biopsy ( utbb ) specimens from 9 patients ( 5 patients underwent both dbmb and utbb , 4 underwent only utbb , and 1 had only dbmb ) disclosed bone marrow that contained nodules characteristic of mast cell granulomas and numerous scattered oval - and spindle-shaped mast cells . the trabecular bone contained abundant newly synthesized bone matrix and a significant increase in osteoblastic , osteoclastic , and resorptive surfaces . dynamic histomorphometric parameters revealed a significantly increased mineral apposition rate . our study suggests that sm may be a more frequent cause of osteoporosis than previously recognized . generalized osteopenia with compression fractures may be the only presentation of sm . undecalcified bone biopsy is useful in the diagnosis of sm . accelerated bone remodeling is a characteristic histomorphometric feature of sm with diffuse osteopenia . 
refractory parastomal ulcers : a multidisciplinary approach . chronic parastomal ulcers in patients with ileostomy or colostomy stomas are unusual . previous reports have implicated infections , fistulas , recurrent inflammatory bowel disease ( ibd ) , pyoderma gangrenosum , and trauma . over the past 8 years we have evaluated 10 cases of such refractory parastomal ulcers that occurred at a mean of 11 years after stomal surgery . eight patients had had an ileostomy for ibd while two had undergone colostomy for colon cancer . five patients with ibd were diagnosed as having pyoderma gangrenosum ulcerations . they required systemic treatment for a mean of 25 weeks to effect ulcer healing . the other five patients had either parastomal ulcers on the basis of dermatoses ( contact dermatitis , eczema , or bullous pemphigoid ) or contact ulcers due to face-plate pressure and parastomal dermatitis . these patients received topical treatment with healing of ulcers in a mean of 4 weeks . we conclude that parastomal ulcers occurring in patients without ibd or ibd patients without classic pyoderma gangrenosum require early dermatologic evaluation as they respond relatively quickly to appropriate local therapy . 
treatment of severe colitis in behcet 's syndrome with thalidomide ( cg-217 ) . a 35-year-old male patient , known in our department since 1979 on account of a severe and complete behcet 's syndrome , was treated with thalidomide ( cg-217 ) as a final pharmacological measure to avoid colectomy during a severe attack of behcet colitis . prior to the administration of thalidomide , the patient had been treated for 7 weeks with full parenteral nutrition and high doses of steroids intravenously without a satisfactory effect on the colitis . treatment with sulphasalazin was unsuccessful because of a decreasing number of platelets on this drug . after a few days on thalidomide , 300 mg given once daily at bedtime , the patient 's stools were normalized and without reaction for blood , his oral ulcers and pleural effusion disappeared , and his steroid doses could be reduced . gradually he was put on oral nutrition again , and his rectal mucosa became normalized . the dose of thalidomide was reduced to 200 mg , and then to 100 mg daily when the patient was discharged from hospital , less than 3 weeks after institution of the drug treatment . after 5 months as an out-patient his condition is still satisfactory and without symptoms of his former disease . thalidomide has previously been reported to be of value in treatment of behcet 's syndrome , but to my knowledge never with such a dramatic effect on a severe colitis as reported in this case . 
gall-bladder perforation after long-term dapsone therapy . a 65-year-old man on maintenance dapsone therapy for dermatitis herpetiformis for 30 years was admitted to hospital with acute abdominal pain and vomiting . investigations revealed a heinz body haemolytic anaemia . worsening symptoms prompted an emergency laparotomy that revealed a perforated gall bladder with pigmented biliary calculi . in previous reviews of the haematological abnormalities associated with dapsone therapy , life-threatening cholecystitis has not been described . 
soft tissue calcification in pediatric patients with end-stage renal disease . soft tissue calcification is a recognized complication of uremia in adult patients and has been implicated as a cause of ischemic necrosis , cardiac arrhythmias , and respiratory failure . however , soft tissue calcification has been regarded as rare in pediatric renal patients . following a sudden death due to pulmonary calcinosis in an adolescent after renal transplantation , we retrospectively reviewed clinical , biochemical and autopsy data of 120 patients with uremia , on dialysis , or following renal transplantation cared for at childrens hospital of los angeles from 1960 to 1983 . soft tissue calcification was found in 72 of 120 patients ( 60 percent ) . forty-three patients ( 36 percent ) had systemic calcinosis ( group a ) : the most frequent sites of mineral deposition were blood vessels , lung , kidney , myocardium , coronary artery , central nervous system , and gastric mucosa . vascular calcification was uniformly accompanied by deposits in other organs . twenty-nine patients had small amounts of focal calcification ( group b ) and 48 patients had no soft tissue calcification ( group c ) . by multiple logistic regression analysis , the use of vitamin d or its analogues , the form of vitamin d medication prescribed , the peak calcium x phosphorus product , the age at onset of renal failure , and male sex were jointly associated with calcinosis ( group a ) . vitamin d therapy showed the strongest independent association with calcinosis and the probability of calcinosis was greater in patients receiving calcitriol when compared with dihydrotachysterol and vitamin d2 or d3 . the duration of renal failure , peak serum calcium , serum calcium at death , serum phosphorus at death , and primary renal diagnosis , were not statistically associated with calcinosis . 
the acromegalic rosary palpable enlargement of the costochondral junctions on the anterolateral chest wall was detected in 26 of 27 patients with acromegaly . in a further study three doctors wearing eyemasks examined a further 13 acromegalic patients and 12 control subjects ; costochondral enlargement was detected with a sensitivity of 77 % and specificity of 86 % . it was not found in normal subjects in the absence of previous chest injury . the presence and extent of costochondral enlargement was unrelated to the duration of active or cured acromegaly , the initial or present growth hormone concentrations , or other clinical features of growth hormone excess . costochondral enlargement is a common clinical sign in acromegaly and can serve as a biological marker of previous or current growth hormone excess . 
double-blind , right/left comparison of calcipotriol and betamethasone valerate in treatment of psoriasis vulgaris [ published erratum appears in lancet 1991 apr 20 ; 337 ( 8747 ) :988 ] the therapeutic efficacy and tolerability of calcipotriol ointment and betamethasone valerate ointment in psoriasis were compared in a multicentre , prospective , randomised , double-blind , right/left trial . 345 inpatients and outpatients with psoriasis vulgaris of symmetrical distribution were treated twice daily for 6 weeks with calcipotriol ointment 50 micrograms/g and betamethasone ointment 0.1 % randomly assigned to opposite sides of the body . the main outcome measures -- the psoriasis area and severity index ( pasi ) , the investigators ' assessments of erythema , thickness , and scaling , and the patients ' own assessments of the overall response to treatment -- were sought at weeks 2 , 4 , and 6 . both treatments significantly reduced the pasi scores and the investigator 's assessment scores , but at each visit the pasi score was significantly ( p less than 0.001 ) lower with calcipotriol than with betamethasone . at 6 weeks the mean pasi reduction was 68.8 % with calcipotriol and 61.4 % with betamethasone ( 95 % confidence interval for difference 5.1-9 .8 , p less than 0.001 ) . the scores for erythema , thickness , and scaling were significantly ( p less than 0.001 ) lower with calcipotriol than with betamethasone at the end of treatment . the patients considered that 82.1 % of calcipotriol-treated sides and 69.3 % of betamethasone-treated sides had improved greatly or cleared up by the end of treatment ( p less than 0.001 ) . 57 adverse events were reported by 52 patients ( 15.1 % ) . the most common adverse event , lesional/perilesional skin irritation , was slightly but not significantly ( p = 0.12 ) more common with calcipotriol treatment . 15 ( 4.3 % ) patients were withdrawn from the study , 3 because of local adverse events . there were no changes in serum calcium during the study . thus , calcipotriol ointment was superior to betamethasone valerate ointment in psoriasis vulgaris . though long-term results are not yet available , calcipotriol holds great promise as an antipsoriatic agent . 
keratinocytes as initiators of inflammation environmental stimuli responsible for inducing cutaneous inflammation include contact allergens and ultraviolet light . we postulate that these diverse stimuli trigger a cutaneous inflammatory response by directly inducing epidermal keratinocytes to elaborate specific pro-inflammatory cytokines and adhesion molecules . the consequences are activation of dermal microvascular endothelial cells and selective accumulation of specific mononuclear cells in the dermis and epidermis . thus , keratinocytes may act as " signal transducers " , capable of converting exogenous stimuli into the production of cytokines , adhesion molecules , and chemotactic factors ( acting in an autocrine and paracrine fashion ) responsible for initiation of " antigen-independent " cutaneous inflammation . the initiation phase may facilitate or promote an amplification phase with additional production of tumour-necrosis factor alpha and interferon gamma via an " antigen-dependent " pathway , and keratinocyte/t cell/antigen-presenting dendritic cellular associations . the direct activation of keratinocytes , with their ability to produce the complete repertoire of pro-inflammatory cytokines , can profoundly influence endogenous and recruited immunocompetent cells , thereby providing the critical trigger responsible for the swift and clinically dramatic alterations that occur following contact between the epidermis and a host of " noxious " agents . 
cyclosporine for plaque-type psoriasis . results of a multidose , double-blind trial background . severe plaque-type psoriasis has been successfully treated with orally administered cyclosporine , but there has been no comparative , controlled evaluation of various dosages and their efficacy and side effects . methods . in a 16-week , double-blind trial , we randomly assigned 85 patients with severe psoriasis to receive 3 , 5 , or 7.5 mg of cyclosporine per kilogram of body weight per day or a placebo consisting of the vehicle for the drug . after eight weeks the dose could be adjusted to improve safety or efficacy while maintaining blinding . results . the psoriasis improved in a dose-dependent fashion . after eight weeks of fixed-dose therapy , 36 , 65 , and 80 percent of the patients receiving 3 , 5 , and 7.5 mg of cyclosporine per kilogram per day , respectively , were rated as being clear or almost clear of psoriasis ; each group had significant improvement ( p less than 0.0001 ) as compared with the group receiving vehicle , in which none of the patients were rated as clear or almost clear . the patients who received 5 mg per kilogram were the least likely to require dosage adjustments because of side effects or a lack of efficacy . the glomerular filtration rate , measured in a subgroup of 34 patients receiving cyclosporine , decreased by a median of 16 percent . higher doses of cyclosporine had greater adverse effects on systolic blood pressure , glomerular filtration rate , and serum levels of creatinine , uric acid , bilirubin , and cholesterol . delayed-type hypersensitivity reactions to skin-test antigens were reduced by cyclosporine administration . cyclosporine appears to become concentrated in skin . conclusions . cyclosporine therapy leads to a rapid and thorough clearing of psoriasis ; an initial dose of 5 mg per kilogram per day seems to be appropriate . however , the safety of cyclosporine for the long-term treatment of psoriasis remains to be determined . 
native valve endocarditis due to pseudallescheria boydii in a patient with aids : case report and review . a 53-year-old man with aids developed mitral valve endocarditis due to infection with the fungus pseudallescheria boydii . a limited number of cases of prosthetic valve endocarditis caused by this organism have been described . we report a unique case of pseudallescheria infection of a native valve and describe this disease in a patient with aids . 
indigenous cases of lyme disease diagnosed in north carolina . between january 1984 and december 1989 , 102 indigenous cases of lyme disease were reported in north carolina . lyme disease was reported in each of the three major geographic regions of the state : mountain , piedmont , and coastal plain . one or more diagnoses were made in 42 of 100 counties . patients ranged in age from 5 months to 78 years ( median , 27 years ) ; 58 patients ( 57 % ) reported a history of tick exposure within 1 month of the onset of symptoms . erythema migrans was reported by 93 patients ( 91 % ) . arthritis ( 30 % ) , neurologic symptoms ( 10 % ) , and cardiac abnormalities ( 7 % ) were observed . thirty of the 102 cases were confirmed serologically by indirect fluorescence microscopy or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay . 
collagenous colitis : report of nine cases and review of the literature . collagenous colitis is characterized clinically by chronic watery diarrhea and pathologically by a distinctive band of collagen deposited below the colonic epithelium and an inflammatory cell infiltrate of the lamina propria . since 1976 , more than 100 cases have been described . we report an additional nine cases occurring in five women and four men ranging in age from 18 to 80 years . diarrhea was present before diagnosis for 2 to 4 months in four cases and for 1 to 25 years in another four cases . one patient did not have diarrhea . results of radiologic and stool studies were normal in all cases . all patients had flexible sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy . microscopic examination of biopsy material was interpreted as characteristic of collagenous colitis . two cases resolved with psyllium mucilloid therapy alone . of the five patients treated with azulfidine , three had marked improvement , one had partial response , and one had no change . 
sick building syndrome . " sick building syndrome " ( sbs ) is one of the more colorful terms describing an increasingly common pattern of symptoms found among workers in modern office buildings . core symptoms include lethargy , mucous membrane irritation , headache , eye irritation , and dry skin . to prompt a diagnosis of sbs , these otherwise common symptoms must be " excessively " reported and primarily " work-related . " the world health organization now estimates that 30 % of new or remodeled office buildings show signs of sbs , and that between 10 % and 30 % of the occupants of these buildings are affected by sbs . despite such figures , sbs remains poorly researched and even more poorly understood . the following review provides the clinician an overview of sbs that will allow a more accurate differential diagnosis and will help to prevent the widespread suffering that can accrue when sbs is not quickly recognized . 
rheumatoid arthritis of the larynx : the importance of early diagnosis and corticosteroid therapy . rheumatoid arthritis is a destructive systemic disorder characterized by remissions and exacerbations . the larynx is involved in approximately 25 % of these patients . the importance of early detection of laryngeal involvement by this disease and treatment with corticosteroids has not been adequately addressed in the literature . we have described five patients who had early diagnosis and successful treatment with systemic corticosteroids and/or corticosteroid injection of the cricoarytenoid joint . 
perinatal transmission of human papillomavirus . human papillomavirus infection is probably the most prevalent sexually transmitted disease in the united states . in adults , it is associated with condylomata acuminata and with neoplastic changes ranging from dysplasia to carcinoma . infected mothers may transmit human papillomavirus during the perinatal period ; affected children face prolonged , difficult treatment for respiratory papillomatosis . prevention of infection remains the best approach , since diagnostic and therapeutic methods are suboptimal . 
human immunodeficiency virus-induced immunosuppression : a risk factor for human papillomavirus infection . in a group of 92 women with genital condylomata , 15 ( 16.3 % ) human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients were found , whereas no case was detected in a control group of 100 women . the relative risk was greater than 19.28 . human immunodeficiency-positive status was associated with other parameters : lower age and parity , major frequency of induced abortions , and sexually transmitted diseases . thus although human immunodeficiency-positive status seems to be a true risk factor in relation to the altered immunologic state , an indirect association can not be discarded . such patients should be screened closely for human papillomavirus infection and cervical cancer . among human immunodeficiency-positive women , a more resistant behavior of human papillomavirus-associated lesions was detected ( recurrence-persistence of 41.7 % versus 12 % ) , a fact that might also be in relation to the immunodepressed status . 
sweet 's syndrome with lung involvement . severe dyspnea and pulmonary infiltrates were associated with recurrent episodes of sweet 's syndrome ( acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis ) in a 54-yr-old woman with myelodysplasia . lung and skin biopsies revealed a sterile infiltration of the interstitial tissues by mature neutrophils . corticosteroid therapy resulted in rapid clinical improvement ; however , recurrent episodes were increasingly resistant to therapy , and she ultimately died from respiratory failure . sweet 's syndrome involving the lung is rare , with only two previously reported cases documented by lung biopsy . prompt recognition of sweet 's syndrome with lung involvement is important because of the potential for severe respiratory compromise . 
ultrastructural localization of calcium in psoriatic and normal human epidermis . with ion capture cytochemistry , we previously demonstrated the distribution of calcium ions in murine epidermis , a pattern consistent with a role for this ion in the regulation of epidermal differentiation . because of the known proliferation and differentiation defects in psoriasis , we compared the calcium distribution of involved vs uninvolved psoriatic lesions and normal human epidermis . whereas normal human and uninvolved psoriatic epidermis revealed increased calcium-containing precipitates in the uppermost stratum granulosum , in contrast the basal layer of psoriatic lesions contained less extracellular calcium , a condition that favored enhanced proliferation . moreover , all psoriatic suprabasal cell layers displayed heavier than normal concentrations of calcium , indicating loss of the normal calcium gradient that programs terminal differentiation . this abnormal profile may account for the differentiation defects ( eg , parakeratosis ) that occur in psoriasis . finally , psoriatic lesions displayed retained ionic ca in intercellular domains of the upper stratum granulosum with absence of normal intercellular bilayers , findings that may underlie the abnormal desquamation and permeability barrier in psoriasis . 
hla-d locus associations in alopecia areata . drw52a may confer disease resistance . because predisposition to autoimmunity has been associated with hla-d alleles and alopecia areata is hypothesized to be a t-cell mediated autoimmune hair loss , we determined dr and dq alleles in 88 white and 10 american black patients with alopecia areata as well as controls with the use of restriction fragment length polymorphism typing with cdna probes . white patients with alopecia areata have an increase in the phenotype frequencies of dr4 and dqw8 and an increase in genotype frequencies of dr4 and dr5 ( now drw11 [ 5 ] ) . these associations are in agreement with those reported in two other studies but are not significant when corrected by the number of hla antigens tested . sixty-one percent of all patients with aa have dr4 and/or drw11 ( 5 ) specificities vs 40 % of controls , with more dr4 , drw11 ( 5 ) and dqw7 ( w3 ) , dqw8 ( w3 ) heterozygotes among patients . dqw6 ( w1 ) phenotype frequencies and drw52a phenotype and genotype frequencies are significantly decreased in patients with alopecia areata relative to controls . this highly significant negative association with the hla drb3 allele drw52a in whites persisted even when dr4 - or drw11 ( 5 ) - positive individuals were excluded from the patient and control groups . these data suggest that hla-dr4 and drw11 ( 5 ) with their associated dqw7 ( w3 ) and dqw8 ( w3 ) specificities may confer susceptibility to alopecia areata , while drw52a may confer resistance . 
cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma . we report the cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma , using a retrospective review of 115 patients ' records obtained from tumor registry files . five patients were found to have biopsy-proved extramedullary plasmacytomas without extension from an underlying bony focus . twelve patients had ecchymoses without thrombocytopenia ; two of them had biopsy-proved amyloidosis . one patient presented with pyoderma gangrenosum and was subsequently diagnosed with multiple myeloma . the last patient initially presented with what clinically appeared to be leukocytoclastic vasculitis , and , in the course of a standard workup , he was diagnosed with multiple myeloma . these findings are discussed with regard to the current literature on the cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma . 
coexistence of spherulocytic disease ( myospherulosis ) and membranocystic degeneration . a case of myospherulosis seen in a 22-year-old japanese woman with lupus erythematosus is presented . myospherules were found in subcutaneous nodules on the legs of the patient and were restricted to the areas of membranocystic change , a kind of degeneration of the adipose tissue . the myospherules were positive for blood group a antigens , suggesting a red blood cell origin . in contrast , the parent bodies of the myospherules were negative for blood group antigens . the coexistence of myospherulosis and membraneocystic changes has not been previously described , but might have been overlooked in the past . 
papuloerythroderma . another case of a new disease . we describe a case of papuloerythroderma . this is a distinctive clinical entity characterized by pruritus , red-brown flat-topped papules exhibiting the " deck-chair " sign , eosinophilia , and lymphopenia . we propose that the langerhans cell may have a central role in the pathogenesis of papuloerthroderma and we describe an excellent response to photochemotherapy . 
polycystic ovary syndrome . polycystic ovary syndrome is a disorder of unknown cause characterized by anovulation , hyperandrogenism , and gonadotropin secretory abnormalities producing oligo-ovulation or anovulation . hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance are important features of this syndrome . because other causes of androgen excess may produce similar clinical and biochemical findings , pco remains a diagnosis of exclusion . treatment is directed toward relieving symptoms of hyperandrogenemia in order to stimulate ovulation , correcting obesity , and inducing regular menses to reduce the risk of endometrial cancer . 
endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule-1 and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 mediate the adhesion of eosinophils to endothelial cells in vitro and are expressed by endothelium in allergic cutaneous inflammation in vivo we have compared the adhesion of 51cr-labeled eosinophils and neutrophils to cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cell ( ec ) monolayers that have been stimulated with il-1 , tnf , or lps . each agent stimulated the adhesion to ec of both eosinophils and neutrophils in a similar dose - and time-dependent manner . f ( ab ' ) 2 fragments of mab 1.2 b6 ( anti-endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule ( elam ) -1 ) and mab 6.5 b5 ( anti-intercellular adhesion molecule ( icam ) -1 ) each inhibited partially , and to a similar extent , eosinophil and neutrophil adhesion to ec monolayers prestimulated with tnf ( 10 ng/ml ) for 6 h. greater inhibition of both eosinophil and neutrophil adhesion was achieved by combining the effects of mab 1.2 b6 with either mab 6.5 b5 or mab ts1/18 ( anti-cd18 ) . these observations indicate that both elam-1 and icam-1 are involved in the adhesion of eosinophils and neutrophils to ec stimulated with tnf . in order to determine whether these molecules are expressed in vivo during allergen-induced late phase allergic responses in the skin , human skin biopsies were examined at 6 h after ag or saline challenge with the use of an alkaline phosphatase-staining technique . both elam-1 and icam-1 were expressed with greater intensities in ag-challenged biopsies , suggesting that these molecules may be involved in granulocyte recruitment in vivo . the similarities we have established between mechanisms of eosinophil and neutrophil adhesion to cytokine-stimulated ec suggests that factors other than differential leukocyte-ec adhesion may be responsible for the selective accumulation of eosinophils at sites of allergic inflammation . 
newly identified u4/u6 snrnp-binding proteins by serum autoantibodies from a patient with systemic sclerosis . we found serum autoantibodies directed against the proteins binding exclusively to u4/u6 of sm small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particle ( snrnp ) in serum from a patient ( mas ) with systemic sclerosis . their specificity , called anti-mas , is distinct from that of known antibodies against u snrnp . the u4 and u6 small nuclear rna from a 32p-labeled hela cell extract and five proteins with mr 150,000 , 120,000 , 80,000 , 36,000 , and 34,000 , in addition to sm core proteins ( b , b ' , d , e , f , and g ) from an [ 35s ] methionine-labeled extract , were immunoprecipitated by anti-mas in isotonic solution . however , the sm core proteins and u4 and u6 small nuclear rna were separated from the protein-a-sepharose facilitated mas immunoprecipitate by incubation in a solution containing 500 mm nacl . in immunoblots , anti-mas antibodies reacted with one protein of mr 150,000 from a hela cell nuclear extract that was fractionated by sds-page and transferred to a nitrocellulose sheet . the monospecific immunoaffinity purified antibody eluted from the immunoblot band immunoprecipitated u4 and u6 small nuclear rna and reblotted the protein with mr 150,000 . these data indicate that anti-mas antibodies recognize at least one antigenic protein that binds exclusively to the u4/u6 snrnp . 
abnormalities in epidermal lipid metabolism in patients with atopic dermatitis . atopic dermatitis is an inflammatory skin disease characterized by dryness and itch of the skin . in this study , we measured the phospholipid content and the fatty acid pattern of lesional and lesion-free epidermal keratome biopsies on 15 patients . for comparison , epidermal biopsies were obtained from healthy individuals undergoing plastic surgery . the phospholipid content of atopic epidermis was nearly twice as high as in healthy epidermis . monounsaturated fatty acids in the phosphoglycerides were significantly increased ( p less than 0.001 ) and n-6 fatty acids were significantly decreased ( p less than 0.001 ) in lesional atopic epidermis compared to lesion-free epidermis . the content of esterified arachidonic acid in phosphatidylcholine from lesional epidermis was only 49 % of that found in healthy epidermis ( p less than 0.001 ) . the content of free arachidonic acid was 47 % higher ( p less than 0.05 ) , whereas the content of free long-chain saturated fatty acids was decreased by 29 % ( p less than 0.01 ) , in lesional compared to lesion-free atopic epidermis . the disease severity , calculated as an arbitrary index , correlated inversely with the n-6 fatty acid content of lesion-free atopic epidermis ( r = -0.89 , p less than 0.001 ) . our findings suggest that atopic epidermis is characterized by an increased activity of phospholipase a2 and an incomplete transformation of phospholipids into other lipid classes . 
effect of retinoic acid on platelet-derived growth factor ( pdgf ) bioactivity and type-b pdgf receptors in normal and psoriatic human fibroblasts . psoriasis is a common skin disease in which retinoids have beneficial effects . it offers a model for the study of benign hyperproliferation with abnormal differentiation . the dermis has a prominent role in the appearance of epidermal lesions . it is therefore of interest to study the factors that modulate dermal cell proliferation . in this study , the role of retinoids in modulating platelet-derived growth factor ( pdgf ) bioactivity was studied in normal ( six subjects ) and psoriatic fibroblasts from involved and uninvolved tissues ( six patients ) . retinoic acid treatment ( for 4 d at 10 ( -6 ) m ) of psoriatic fibroblasts significantly increased the chemotactic effect of pdgf in these cells ( p less than 0.01 and p less than 0.05 , respectively , in involved and uninvolved skin at 20 ng/ml of platelet-derived growth factor as measured in a modified boyden chamber assay ) . in the same way , retinoic acid treatment of psoriatic fibroblasts increased the mitogenicity of platelet-derived growth factor in these cells . retinoic acid treatment has no significant effect on the mitogenic and chemotactic activity of pdgf in normal fibroblasts . the binding of the homodimer bb pdgf to its type-b receptor , which mediates the mitogenic and chemotactic effect of pdgf , was not modified by retinoic acid treatment either in psoriatic and/or normal fibroblasts . these results suggest that retinoic acid may modulate the pdgf bioactivity in psoriatic fibroblasts not by affecting the binding of this ligand to these cells but by influencing a post-receptor event . 
characterization of 230-kd bullous pemphigoid antigen associated with the detergent-insoluble fraction of cultured keratinocytes . the 230-kd protein identified by antibodies from patients with bullous pemphigoid ( bp ) has a dual location in cultured normal human epidermal keratinocytes : part in a high-speed supernatant of homogenized cells and part in a particulate fraction , where it is resistant to extraction by non-ionic detergent or mild base . antibodies were affinity purified from the particulate 230-kd bp antigen , which can be extracted in the presence of urea . the affinity-purified antibodies bind not only the cytosolic 230-kd protein , showing that it is related , if not identical , to the particulate form , but also produce a discontinuous granular pattern by indirect immunofluorescence in the basement membrane zone of rabbit esophagus . in stratifying epidermal cultures , expression of the 230-kd bp antigen is limited to basal cells . these data are consistent with 230-kd bp antigen involvement in keratinocyte basal cell interaction with extracellular matrix and indicate that the cultured cell may provide a useful model for analysis of 230-kd bp antigen function . 
the calcium-sensitive epitope of pemphigus foliaceus antigen is present on a murine tryptic fragment and constitutes a major antigenic region for human autoantibodies . recent findings indicate that the pemphigus foliaceus ( pf ) antigen is involved in epidermal cell adhesion and that characteristic pf lesions result from loss of this function as a consequence of autoantibody binding . in the present communication we present data on the epitopes involved in the human autoantibody binding to an immunologically reactive murine tryptic fragment of the pf antigen ( tf-pf ) . immunoprecipitation experiments showed that 39 pf sera , obtained from north american , colombian , and brazilian patients recognized only calcium-sensitive epitope ( s ) on the tf-pf . immunofluorescence blocking experiments showed that preincubation with tf-pf completely blocked the immunofluorescence of 80 % of the sera when tested on human skin substrate , and 86 % of the sera when tested on murine skin substrate . these results show that the calcium-sensitive epitope ( s ) originally recognized on human pf complex , is ( are ) present on the murine tf-pf and constitute ( s ) a major antigenic region for the human pf autoantibodies . they also implicate this region of the pf antigen in the pathogenesis of pf as well as in epidermal cell adhesion . 
reduced neutrophil ltb4 release in atopic dermatitis patients despite normal fatty acid composition . propositions about an abnormal fatty acid metabolism in atopic dermatitis patients prompted us to compare the phospholipid fatty acid composition and ltb4 release of neutrophils from 15 atopic dermatitis patients , as well as the adipose tissue triglyceride fatty acid composition , to that of 15 healthy controls matched by age , gender , and smoking habits . we found no differences in the tissue fatty acid composition between the two groups . the release of leukotriene b4 from ca-ionophore-stimulated neutrophils in patients was on the average only 42 % ( p less than 0.001 ) of that measured in the control group , despite the very similar arachidonic acid contents of these cells . our study does not support the assumption of an abnormal fatty acid desaturation in atopic dermatitis patients . rather , the capacity to release and/or convert arachidonic acid into leukotrienes in neutrophils appears to be affected by this disease . 
localization of neutrophil-activating peptide-1 / interleukin-8-immunoreactivity in normal and psoriatic skin . various cytokines have in the past been detected in human skin . among these , the neutrophil-activating peptide nap-1 / il-8 is a potent 8-kd proinflammatory peptide that has been purified from psoriatic scales . its chemotactic activity on human neutrophils , as well as its presence in psoriatic scales , may relate to a role in this disease . in the present study , the tissue distribution of the peptide was examined immunohistochemically using two monoclonal antibodies ( 52e8 , 46e5 ) recently produced and characterized in our laboratory . immunoreactivity was detected in both normal and psoriatic skin , resulting in uniform suprabasal keratinocyte staining in normal skin with 52e8 and of all keratinocytes with 46e5 . immunoreactivity in psoriasis correlated to the inflammatory tissue reaction , varying from uniform absence in highly active psoriasis to focally weak staining in plaque type psoriasis . cells of the acrosyringium and hair follicles were always positive and were unaffected by the inflammatory activity . epidermal immunoreactivity detected in this study may be associated with closely related peptides of the il8 family or with truncated or extended forms of nap-1 / il-8 . 
characterization of skin-infiltrating lymphocytes in patients with psoriasis . in this study , skin-infiltrating cells in psoriasis patients were characterized in biopsies from both involved and uninvolved skin . histologic examination of biopsies showed the presence of both cd4 + and cd8 + t cells and the lack of b lymphocytes . skin biopsies were also placed in tissue culture medium supplemented with human serum , interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) , and irradiated autologous blood lymphocytes . t lymphocytes grew from both plaques and univolved skin biopsies and consisted of a heterogeneous population of t-cell subsets . the immunophenotypic analysis of cultured cells was comparable to the histologic examination on frozen section , i.e. , there was a greater number of cd4/cdw29 + cells than cd8 + / cd45 + cells . cultures were tested in the primed lymphocyte test ( plt ) and cell-mediated lympholysis ( cml ) assays . all cultures tested demonstrated secondary proliferative but not cytolytic reactivity . the plt results indicate that the cell cultures generated are autoreactive . this autoreactivity was found to be directed against non-human leukocyte antigens ( hla ) , i.e. , minor hla with some restriction to major hla antigens . 
scanning acoustic microscopy of neoplastic and inflammatory cutaneous tissue specimens . acoustic microscopy utilizes high frequency ultrasound to generate microscopic images . the current study was designed to examine representative disorders of the skin by use of a reflective scanning acoustic microscope ( r-sam ) , and to determine whether the obtainable resolution was sufficient to render a microscopic diagnosis . an olympus uh3 scanning acoustic microscope was utilized with lenses producing burst wave frequencies at 600 and 800 mhz ( 600 and 800 million cylces/sec ) . cutaneous tissue specimens representing 12 different neoplastic and inflammatory disorders were examined . acoustic images of unstained sections were compared with conventional light microscopic study of sections stained with hematoxylin-eosin . in most neoplasms examined , it was possible to make a specific diagnosis primarily from low magnification pattern analysis . although individual cells could be visualized , cytologic atypia was poorly defined . in the inflammatory disorders , a specific diagnosis was possible in all but bullous pemphigoid and lichen planus , because the composition of the inflammatory infiltrate was difficult to determine . the advantages of the r-sam include the capability of producing an acoustic profile of the tissue and the future possibility of in situ diagnosis . 
iga-binding structures in dermatitis herpetiformis skin are independent of elastic-microfibrillar bundles . dermatitis herpetiformis ( dh ) is characterized in part by the presence of granular deposits of iga in the papillary dermis just beneath the dermal-epidermal junction . the nature of the structures to which iga binds in dh skin , however , has not been clearly demonstrated . previous immunoelectron-microscopy studies using the peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique have concluded that the iga may bind to abnormal elastic microfibrillar bundles . recently , antibodies have been developed against a major component of the elastic microfibril bundles , fibrillin . in addition , another dermal matrix protein , hexabrachion , has been characterized and found in normal human skin in a distribution similar to the iga deposits of dh . utilizing antibodies against fibrillin , hexabrachion , and human iga and immunoelectronmicroscopy with immunogold staining techniques , we have examined the skin from patients with dh in order to localize the iga deposits . normal-appearing skin from five patients with dh exhibited electron-dense patches within the dermis , which were not seen in skin from normal subjects . these structures were sometimes adjacent to the basement membrane zone , but appeared amorphous and without a well-defined fibrillar structure . the electron-dense patches were labeled with anti-human iga , but not with antibodies to fibrillin or hexabrachion . the anti-iga antibody did not label the normal basement membrane . these studies confirm the presence of abnormal electron-dense , amorphous structures in the skin of patients with dh . due to this lack of association with the elastic microfibril bundles and the lack of labeling with antibodies against fibrillin , we suggest that these deposits are distinct from the microfibrillar bundles of elastic tissue and may represent iga bound to degraded basement membrane or isolated dermal deposits of iga . 
expression of basement membrane proteins and interstitial collagens in dermal papillae of human hair follicles . the expression of basement membrane molecules and interstitial collagens in human hair follicle mesenchyme was studied by immunohistochemical staining of tissue sections and of cells cultured from dermal papillae . type i and type iii collagens were found in the dermal sheath and in the dermal papilla throughout the hair cycle . laminin and type iv collagen were expressed at the outer root sheath basement membrane and in the extracellular matrix of the dermal papilla of anagen and catagen follicles . in telogen follicles , where the volume of the dermal papilla extracellular matrix is much reduced , outline staining of dermal papilla cells for laminin and type iv collagen was still apparent . staining for bullous pemphigoid antigen was also seen at the outer root sheath basement membrane extending to the lower tip of the hair bulb . in anagen follicles , there was no staining for bullous pemphigoid antigen at the interface between hair bulb epithelium and the dermal papilla and no staining within the dermal papilla . however , linear staining for bullous pemphigoid antigen became continuous around hair follicle epithelium during catagen and telogen . cells cultured from human dermal papillae also stained for interstitial collagens , type iv collagen and laminin . however , similar results were obtained when cultured dermal fibroblasts were stained with the same antibodies . the expression of basement membrane proteins in human dermal papillae resembles that seen in follicles from other mammalian species and suggests that this is relevant to dermal papilla function . cultured dermal papilla cells express a similar pattern of interstitial collagens and basement membrane proteins to those seen in tissue sections but this finding is not specific to dermal papilla cells . 
thyroid crises . in the setting of characteristic features of thyrotoxicosis , the timely diagnosis and aggressive management of thyroid storm should result in a successful outcome . however , severe storm may lead to irreversible cardiovascular collapse , especially in the older patient who may have atypical features of thyrotoxicosis . the fundamental approach is prompt and optimal treatment in the emergency department once the presenting clinical features suggest its presence . delay in the introduction of therapy while awaiting laboratory confirmation may result in further decompensation and death . the prevention of myxedema coma entails paying special attention to certain high-risk patient groups . these groups include older women with a history of hashimoto 's thyroiditis , or previous irradiation or thyroid surgery for hyperthyroidism . inform such patients of the symptoms and signs of hypothyroidism , and perform annual thyroid function tests , such as a serum tsh , in order to provide early , adequate treatment once the test becomes positive . 
infantile systemic hyalinosis : newly recognized disorder of collagen ? four infants with stiff skin and painful joint contractures in the first few months of life are described . other features included small papules , particularly on the face and trunk , perianal nodules , hyperpigmentation over the metacarpophalangeal joints and over the malleoli , gingival hyperplasia , persistent diarrhea , and failure to thrive . two of these infants died before the age of 18 months . in each case hyaline material was found in the papillary dermis . ultrastructurally , there was a distinctive fibrillogranular appearance in which a banding pattern could be observed . this material was also found within membrane-bound vacuoles in macrophages and fibroblasts . it had an appearance and localization identical with that of collagen type vi . these features are similar to those reported in juvenile hyaline fibromatosis . it is believed that these infants have a closely related , but nonetheless distinctive , inherited disorder of collagen . 
cellular localization of interleukin-8 and its inducer , tumor necrosis factor-alpha in psoriasis . the importance of immunologic mechanisms in psoriasis has been deduced from the ability of immunosuppressive therapies to ameliorate this common and chronic skin disease . certainly the histology of psoriatic lesions suggests a dialogue between the hyperplastic keratinocytes and infiltrating t lymphocytes and macrophages . to begin dissecting the cytokine network involved in the pathophysiology of psoriasis , the location , in both epidermal and dermal compartments , of tumor necrosis factor-alpha , interleukin-8 , intercellular adhesion molecule-1 , and transforming growth factor-alpha at the protein and/or mrna levels were identified . tumor necrosis factor-alpha was selected as a potentially key regulatory cytokine , first because it induces cultured keratinocyte interleukin-8 , intercellular adhesion molecule-1 , and transforming growth factor-alpha production , and second because intercellular adhesion molecule-1 expression by keratinocytes in psoriatic epidermis had been identified previously . using immunohistochemical localization , tumor necrosis factor-alpha was identified in 12 psoriatic lesions as intense and diffuse expression by dermal dendrocytes ( macrophages ) in the papillary dermis ( without significant staining of endothelial cells , mast cells , or dermal langerhans cells ) , and focally by keratinocytes and intraepidermal langerhans cells . functional interaction between the dermal dendrocytes and keratinocytes was suggested by the presence of interleukin-8 expression of suprabasal keratinocytes immediately above the tumor necrosis factor-alpha-positive dermal dendrocytes . interleukin-8 mrna and transforming growth factor-alpha mrna were detectable in the epidermal roof of psoriatic lesions , but neither was detectable at the protein or mrna levels in any normal skin specimens . treatment of cultured human keratinocytes with phorbol ester ( which experimentally produces psoriasiform changes on mouse skin ) or tumor necrosis factor-alpha also increased interleukin-8 and transforming growth factor-alpha mrnas . further elucidation of the cellular and molecular basis for the genesis and evolution of psoriasis will provide the framework for a better evaluation of the cause and treatment of this skin disease . 
monoclonal antibodies detect monocyte/macrophage activation and differentiation antigens and identify functionally distinct subpopulations of human rheumatoid synovial tissue macrophages . monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) to functionally heterogeneous populations of human rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) synovial tissue macrophages and lipopolysaccharide ( lps ) - activated u937 cells were generated . these mabs were used to characterize macrophages in situ in the synovial pannus and to study relative antigen expression on the surface of cells isolated from the synovium and from normal peripheral blood . monoclonal antibody 3d8 , an anti-cd13 mab , reacts with an antigen expressed on the surface of blood monocytes and is a monocyte activation-related antigen that is upregulated by exposure of monocytes to interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) and lps . the expression of the 3d8 antigen increases in parallel with mhc class ii antigen expression and also is upregulated in culture as monocytes mature to macrophages . 3d8 antigen is expressed strongly on ra synovial tissue lining cells , which are thought to be composed of macrophages . 8d7 antigen expression , detected by mab 8d7 , increases on blood monocytes on cellular activation with lps and interferon-gamma , but in contrast to the 3d8 antigen , does not increase with monocyte maturation in vitro . the 8d7 antigen is expressed differentially on density-defined macrophage subpopulations isolated from ra synovial tissue and is expressed more strongly on macrophages that are nonangiogenic than those that are angiogenic . 
second-generation h1-receptor antagonists . the second-generation h1-receptor antagonists do not penetrate into the central nervous system as readily as the first-generation h1-receptor antagonists do . they bind preferentially to peripheral rather than central h1-receptors . they cause no more sedation than placebo does . these medications differ considerably from one another in some aspects of basic pharmacology and in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics . an understanding of these differences will facilitate their optimal clinical usage . the second-generation h1-receptor antagonists are replacing the first generation h1-receptor antagonists in the symptomatic treatment of allergic rhinoconjunctivitis , and in relieving pruritus in patients with urticaria . they have a mild beneficial effect in patients with chronic asthma . they have not supplanted the first generation h1-receptor antagonists in atopic dermatitis treatment or as adjunctive treatment of pruritus and other symptoms in patients with anaphylaxis . 
scleroderma esophagus . scleroderma ( systemic sclerosis ) is a connective tissue disorder characterized by thickening and fibrosis of the skin and visceral involvement that may include the heart , lungs , kidneys , and gastrointestinal tract . at least 40-50 % of patients with scleroderma experience esophageal symptoms such as heartburn and dysphagia , while up to 90 % of patients have esophageal dysfunction on objective testing at some point in their disease . the disease results in smooth muscle dysfunction that causes esophageal aperistalsis and reduced lower esophageal sphincter pressures . gastroesophageal reflux with poor acid clearance results with an increased incidence of complications such as peptic stricture and barrett 's esophagus . aggressive medical therapy is necessary to prevent these and other complications of gastroesophageal reflux . 
treatment of pruritus of primary biliary cirrhosis with rifampin . pruritus can be a debilitating symptom in patients with chronic cholestasis . based on previous reports of its efficacy , we evaluated the impact of rifampin on the pruritus associated with primary biliary cirrhosis . fourteen patients were included in a randomized , crossover study . after a 15-day washout period , subjects were followed for three weeks . during the first and third week , patients received 600 mg of rifampin or placebo ; no treatment was administered during the second week . pruritus was subjectively scored on a scale from 0 to 100 . with rifampin , pruritus disappeared in 11 patients and partially improved in three ; with placebo , only two had a partial response ( p less than 0.001 ) . six patients with a prior poor or no response to cholestyramine improved with rifampin . no changes in biochemical tests or side effects were observed during this period . we conclude that short-term administration of rifampin relieves pruritus in primary biliary cirrhosis . when administered over a period of eight months in an open study , the relief of pruritus was maintained , while one individual developed an allergic reaction . rifampin appears to be a safe drug in the management of the pruritus of primary biliary cirrhosis . 
cutaneous manifestations of the l-tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome : a spectrum of sclerodermatous skin disease . the natural history of the clinical and pathologic features of skin disease was reviewed prospectively in 30 patients with the l-tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . overall , cutaneous manifestations developed in 26 patients ( 87 % ) . early lesions were nonspecific and characterized predominantly by an erythematous macular eruption on the trunk and extremities . the most characteristic abnormality noted was the spectrum of sclerodermatous disease in 15 patients ( 50 % ) often after a subacute stage of peripheral or truncal edema . clinical and/or biopsy evidence of eosinophilic fasciitis was seen in nine patients ( 30 % ) . findings consistent with diffuse , limited , or localized scleroderma were subsequently observed in nine patients ( 33 % ) . small mucinous papules , similar to those seen in scleromyxedema , were found in five patients ( 17 % ) . alopecia , frequently a late sequela , developed in 11 ( 37 % ) . common histologic features included papillary dermal fibrosis , dermal and fascial infiltrates consisting of mononuclear cells and eosinophils , deposition of glycosaminoglycans in the dermis , and , in some patients , numerous mast cells . 
increased epidermal growth factor receptors in seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons of patients with the dysplastic nevus syndrome . seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons may change in biologic behavior with pregnancy or during treatment with sex steroids . because epidermal growth factor receptor localization may change in hyperproliferative skin diseases , we compared epidermal growth factor receptor immunolocalization in seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons from women who were or were not pregnant or taking oral sex steroid hormones . epidermal growth factor receptor was further investigated in growing and quiescent seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons from women with and without the dysplastic nevus syndrome . the epidermal growth factor receptor concentration was strikingly elevated in suprabasilar keratinocytes of growing seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons from patients with the dysplastic nevus syndrome who were pregnant or taking sex steroid hormones and less elevated in growing seborrheic keratoses from other patients . in contrast , the epidermal growth factor receptor distribution pattern in acrochordons did not correlate as well with the history of growth of these lesions in normal patients . these data suggest sex steroids may affect epidermal growth factor receptor metabolism in benign epidermal hyperproliferative lesions , particularly in patients with the dysplastic nevus syndrome . 
complete follow-up and evaluation of a skin cancer screening in connecticut . on may 21 , 1988 , 251 persons were screened for skin cancer in new haven , connecticut . a total body skin examination was performed on 98 % of the participants . on the basis of follow-up of 93 % of persons with positive screens for basal cell carcinoma , squamous cell carcinoma , or bowen 's disease , positive predictive values were 43 % for basal cell carcinoma , 14 % for squamous cell carcinoma , and 50 % for bowen 's disease . in the group with atypical nevi , a person with two or more clinically atypical nevi was 16 times more likely to have histologic confirmation than a person with a single clinically atypical nevus ( p = 0.003 ) . eighty persons were screened by both a dermatologist and a dermatology nurse ; the crude agreement rate for actinic keratoses was 0.62 ; for atypical nevi , 0.53 ; and for bcc , 0.88 . both nurses and physicians overdiagnosed in the screening setting , the nurses more so than the physicians . of the 128 persons screened who were advised to seek medical follow-up , 16 did not do so despite several reminders ; their reasons are discussed . 
neutrophilic eccrine hidradenitis in two neutropenic patients . neutrophilic eccrine hidradenitis is an uncommon , self-limited dermatosis with a variable clinical presentation . it seems to be due to chemotherapeutic drugs in most cases . necrosis of the eccrine gland associated with a neutrophilic infiltrate is the histologic hallmark of this disease . we report two additional cases in neutropenic patients with acute myelogenous leukemia in which there was a striking lack of neutrophil infiltration . a new term , drug-associated eccrine hidradenitis , is suggested . 
treatment of brittle fingernails and onychoschizia with biotin : scanning electron microscopy . pathologic hoof changes in horses and swine can be normalized by administration of biotin . this vitamin has been given orally to women with brittle fingernails or onychoschizia . the aim of the study was to test whether the favorable clinical results could be corroborated by scanning electron microscopy . we investigated the distal ends of the fingernails from 32 persons . they were placed into three groups : group a consisted of 10 control subjects with normal nails , group b comprised eight patients with brittle nails studied before and after biotin treatment , and group c was 14 patients with brittle nails in whom the administration of biotin did not coincide exactly with the initial and terminal clipping of the nails . the thickness of the nails in group b increased significantly by 25 % . in group c , the increase was 7 % . splitting of the nails were reduced in groups b and c and the irregular cellular arrangement of the dorsal surface of brittle nails became more regular in all nails of group b and in 8 of 11 nails of group c. 
lymphocytic infiltrates of the skin in association with cyclosporine therapy . three patients , one of whom has been previously reported , had erythematous papules and nodules of the face and upper part of the chest during cyclosporine therapy for inflammatory skin diseases . histologic examination and dna analysis ( performed in two cases ) revealed benign dermal lymphocytic infiltrates . in two cases proliferation of only t cells occurred . in the third case , both t and b cell populations were expanded and there was vacuolar degeneration of the basal layer of the epidermis and igg , igm , and c3 deposition along the dermoepidermal junction . these findings may be the result of cyclosporine-induced immune dysregulation . the lesions resolved in all patients after therapy was stopped . 
comparative virologic studies of condylomata acuminata reveal a lack of dual infections with human papillomaviruses . condylomata acuminata are epithelial proliferations caused by infection of the anogenital squamous epithelium with human papillomavirus ( hpv ) . dna-dna hybridization techniques and the extremely sensitive polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) were used to analyze biopsies from patients with clinically diagnosed condyloma acuminatum for the presence of hpv dna . pcr analyses using primers and oligonucleotide probes specific for the e6/e7 region of hpv-6 , -11 , or -16 showed that 31 ( 93.9 % ) of 33 tissue biopsies contained hpv dna : 22 contained type 6 dna , 6 contained type 11 dna , and 3 contained type 16 dna . eleven biopsies positive by pcr were southern hybridization-negative or were considered inadequate for southern analysis . in all 11 , the presence of hpv dna was corroborated by the observation of histopathologic evidence suggestive of hpv infection or by in situ hybridization . no evidence of multiple infections with hpv-6 or -11 and hpv-16 was seen . 
ataxia in myxoedema : a neurophysiological reassessment . in a long-standing case of myxoedema with ataxia and dysarthria , neurophysiological investigations were carried out to assess how much of the ataxic dysbasic syndrome depended on the slowness of mechanical contraction and how much resulted from primary cerebellar involvement . it was observed that the achilles reflexogram showed a marked prolongation of contraction and relaxation time and that in both quadriceps and triceps surae mechanical percussion induced a marked myxoedema and prolonged relaxation time . the emg of these muscles during voluntary contraction and stopping reaction detected an excessive recruitment of the antagonistic muscles , starting without any abnormal delay , a finding at variance with a typical cerebellar pattern . post-urographic analysis gave a pattern of oscillations still within the normal range . these findings suggest that the gait alterations of our patient depended on the increase in muscle contraction time and the consequent excessive recruitment of the antagonists . 
epirubicin at two dose levels with prednisolone as treatment for advanced breast cancer : the results of a randomized trial . two hundred eleven patients with advanced breast cancer were randomized to receive either epirubicin ( e ) 50 mg/m2 and prednisolone ( lep ) or e 100 mg/m2 and prednisolone ( hep ) . the intended treatment consisted of 16 courses of lep or eight courses of hep given at 3-weekly intervals . reasons for stopping treatment early included progressive disease , stable disease without symptomatic improvement , or severe toxicity deemed intolerable by either the patient or physician . toxicity was recorded at 3-weekly and response at 9-weekly intervals using the world health organization ( who ) criteria of response and toxicity . two hundred nine patients were eligible for analysis , 98 % of whom have been followed for more than a year . one hundred four patients received lep and 105 hep . significantly worse myelosuppression , alopecia , nausea and vomiting , and mucositis were seen in the high-dose arm ( p less than or equal to .001 ) . more patients in the lep arm stopped treatment before the fourth course than in the hep arm , and the commonest reason for stopping was progressive disease . a similar median number of courses was given in each arm . there was a significantly higher response in the hep arm ( hep - complete response [ cr ] + partial response [ pr ] = 41 % , lep - cr + pr = 23 % ) . despite this , no statistically significant differences was seen in overall survival or progression-free interval . the median survival for hep and lep was 44 and 46 weeks , respectively . 
a prospective randomized trial comparing epirubicin monochemotherapy to two fluorouracil , cyclophosphamide , and epirubicin regimens differing in epirubicin dose in advanced breast cancer patients . the french epirubicin study group the french epirubicin study group carried out a randomized trial comparing epirubicin alone 75 mg/m2 with fluorouracil ( 5fu ) 500 mg/m2 , cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2 , and epirubicin 50 mg/m2 ( fec 50 ) and 5fu 500 mg/m2 , cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2 , and epirubicin 75 mg/m2 ( fec 75 ) as first treatment for advanced breast cancer patients . patients were stratified according to whether or not there were bone metastases only . four hundred twelve patients entered this trial ; 378 were assessable for tolerability and 365 for efficacy . the overall response rates were comparable between fec 50 ( 44.6 % ) and fec 75 ( 44.7 % ) , but both were better than the epirubicin alone ( 30.6 % ) ( p = .04 and p = .0006 , respectively ) . the complete response rate was better in fec 75 ( 15.5 % ) than in fec 50 ( 7 % ) ( p = .025 ) or epirubicin ( 4 % ) ( p = .002 ) . similar results were obtained in the group of patients without bone-only metastases . no difference in the three treatments was observed in the patients with bone metastases only . mean durations of response were similar in the three groups , being 412 days , 440 days , and 350 days for fec 50 , fec 75 , and epirubicin , respectively . patients without previous adjuvant chemotherapy fared better than those with previous treatment ( without anthracyclines ) . tolerability was fair in the three groups . overall , the epirubicin-alone group showed better tolerance than the two other groups , which did not differ significantly . time to progression and survival were not different among the three groups , but more early relapses occurred in the epirubicin and fec 50 groups ; survival seemed to be better during the first 8 months in the fec 75 group , and the survival difference between the epirubicin group and the fec 75 group was of borderline significance . no difference in survival was observed between epirubicin - and fec 50-group patients , even though the response rate was significantly worse in the monochemotherapy group . 
the interspinous method of posterior atlantoaxial arthrodesis . thirty-six patients underwent c1-2 posterior wiring and fusion procedures over a 5-year period for unstable c-2 fractures ( eight cases ) , unstable atlas-axis combination fractures ( six cases ) , rheumatoid c1-2 instability ( 14 cases ) , os odontoideum ( four cases ) , traumatic c1-2 ligamentous instability ( three cases ) , or instability secondary to a c-2 tumor ( one case ) . in each case , the atlantoaxial arthrodesis utilized sublaminar wire at c-1 and incorporated an iliac-crest strut-graft positioned between the posterior arches of c-1 and c-2 , held in place by securing wire around the base of the spinous process of the axis . follow-up examination was performed in all patients after a mean postoperative duration of 33.7 months . the technical aspects and clinical merits of this fusion procedure , which led to a 97 % union rate ( one nonunion ) and minimal morbidity and mortality rates , are presented . 
antibodies to synthetic peptides from epstein-barr nuclear antigen-1 in sera of patients with early rheumatoid arthritis and in preillness sera . we studied igg antibody levels to synthetic peptides ( p62 , e11 and e3 ) from epstein-barr nuclear antigen-1 ( ebna-1 ) protein sequence in sera of patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) , in pre-ra and in rheumatoid factor ( rf ) positive non-ra sera from finland . anti-e11 and anti-e3 antibody levels were significantly elevated in ra sera , compared with both rf negative and rf positive nonrheumatoid controls . the concentrations of anti-e11 and anti-e3 antibodies in the preillness sera were lower than those in ra sera . eight-year followup samples of patients with ra had slightly decreased levels of anti-e3 and anti-e11 antibodies compared with samples taken within 6 months of the disease onset . anti-p62 antibody levels did not differ significantly between any of the groups studied . thus , elevated levels of antibodies to 2 of the glycine containing ebna-1 peptides were associated with clinical ra . 
epidermal growth factor receptor of fibroblasts from patients with scleroderma . epidermal growth factor receptor ( egf-r ) of fibroblasts from 3 patients with scleroderma ( progressive systemic sclerosis , pss ) was studied by radioiodinated-egf binding assay . the binding was 60.9 + / - 4.0 % of normal fibroblasts , and the scatchard plots showed a decrease in the affinity for egf , not in the number of egf-r . pss fibroblasts expressed higher levels ( 1.15-2 .45 - fold ) of rna for the v-erbb ( egf-r gene ) . all-transretinoic acid ( retinoid ) had little effect on egf-r , v-erbb gene expression and the proliferation of pss fibroblasts . these data concerning the abnormality in the egf-r may all constitute a feature of pss fibroblasts . 
hla class ii and t cell receptor gene polymorphisms in psoriatic arthritis and psoriasis . hla-drb , dqa and dqb genes as well as the t cell receptor ( tcr ) alpha , beta , and gamma genes were studied by southern blot analysis of genomic dna from patients with psoriatic arthritis ( psa ) and psoriasis alone ( ps ) . a subtype of dr7 , dr7a , was found in 38.8 % of patients with psa , 41.5 % of patients with ps , and in 8 % of healthy individuals ( n ) ( psa vs n : pc = 0.0002 , rr = 7.1 ; ps vs n : pc = 0.0002 , rr = 7.9 ) . no association with tcr genes was found . our findings suggest either that the dr7a allele may be in linkage disequilibrium with hla-cw6 or that it may be an important susceptibility factor for psa and ps . 
effects of prostaglandin e1 on collagen diseases with high levels of circulating immune complexes . prostaglandin e1 ( pge1 ) was administered to 4 patients with collagen diseases presenting with high levels of circulating immune complexes ( cic ) in sera . our study patients had progressive systemic sclerosis , systemic lupus erythematosus , polyarteritis nodosa , and rheumatoid arthritis . in all 4 patients , cic levels significantly decreased after administration of pge1 by continuous infusion at 10/ng/kg / min via central venous catheter for 72 h. in addition , the skin ulcer in a patient with pss healed completely , and the finger necrosis in a patient with ra improved . these results suggest that pge1 given by continuous venous infusion is effective in reducing cic , in addition to improving peripheral vascular disorders . 
mixed connective tissue disease with arterial thrombosis , antiphospholipid antibodies and heparin induced thrombocytopenia . we report a patient with mixed connective tissue disease ( mctd ) who presented with thrombosis of the right femoral artery in association with antiphospholipid antibodies ( apl ) . when treated surgically and with heparin prophylaxis , she developed heparin induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis which necessitated amputation of a lower limb . thus our patient developed 2 separate groups of autoantibodies associated with thrombotic events . our case highlights an association between thrombosis , apl and mctd . furthermore , it emphasizes a need for intensive monitoring when hypercoaguable individuals with connective tissue disorders are treated with heparin . 
pelvic lipomatosis associated with cystitis glandularis and adenocarcinoma of the bladder . pelvic lipomatosis is a rare condition characterized by an overgrowth of normal fat in the perivesical and perirectal spaces . cystitis glandularis , cystica or follicularis has been observed in 75 % of the patients with pelvic lipomatosis . although cystitis glandularis is widely regarded as premalignant few reports have documented its transition to adenocarcinoma . we describe a 41-year-old man with pelvic lipomatosis in whom primary adenocarcinoma of the bladder developed 6 years after a histological diagnosis of cystitis cystica and glandularis was established . to our knowledge this is the second case reported of pelvic lipomatosis associated with proliferative cystitis and adenocarcinoma of the bladder , indicating that intestinal metaplasia of the urothelium may be a precursor of malignancy in these patients . 
methods of treating plantar ulcers . the purpose of this article is to describe the indications , precautions , and fabrication techniques for orthotic devices the authors use to facilitate the healing of plantar ulcers . the methods of fabricating and applying three types of orthotic devices developed by the staff at the gillis w long hansen 's disease center -- walking casts , walking splints , and cutout sandals -- are described . patient examples are given for each of the methods . these techniques , in conjunction with patient education and the use of special footwear , provide clinicians with procedures they can use to aid in the healing of plantar ulcers secondary to leprosy , diabetes , or other neuropathic conditions . 
reoperative versus conservative management for gastrointestinal fistulas . development of a fistula is a serious complication . it is necessary to identify its anatomic and pathologic features , as these can influence the outcome of treatment independent of the primary disease . electrolyte abnormalities should be addressed as volume deficits are being restored . sepsis , the most common cause of death in patients with fistulas , must be controlled , and the skin must be protected . reoperation and conservative management are not opposing forms of therapy but rather are complementary . 
reports of erythematous macular skin eruptions associated with diltiazem therapy . diltiazem is a commonly prescribed calcium-channel antagonist for hypertension and ischemic heart disease . the incidence of rash associated with diltiazem therapy is reported to be 1.3 percent . we describe two patients who developed erythematous , macular skin eruptions , approximately two weeks following institution of diltiazem . the skin eruptions resolved after symptomatic treatment and the patients received further therapy with another calcium-channel antagonist . diltiazem-associated skin eruptions are a rare adverse effect ; however , the incidence of rash may occur more frequently than reported in postmarketing surveillance studies . 
post-caesarean section analgesia : a comparison of epidural butorphanol and morphine . epidural butorphanol 1 , 2 and 4 mg were compared with morphine , 5 mg , for postoperative analgesia in 92 consenting , healthy , term parturients who had undergone caesarean section under epidural lidocaine anaesthesia in a randomized double-blind study . postoperative pain was assessed using a visual analogue scale and recorded with heart rate , blood pressure and respiratory rate . the demographic characteristics , and the incidences of primary and repeat caesarean sections , were not different among the four treatment groups . at 15 , 30 , 45 and 60 min after treatment the median pain scores following butorphanol were similar and lower than those following morphine ( p less than 0.05 ) . calculated median percentage pain relief values for butorphanol were higher than morphine at each of these times ( p less than 0.05 ) . at 90 min and 2 hr the pain scores and pain relief values were similar . beyond 45 min the number of patients requesting supplemental medication and dropping out of the study increased progressively in both the butorphanol and morphine treated patients . the attrition profiles for butorphanol were different from morphine ( p less than 0.01 ) . the median time in the study was greater than 24 hr for morphine , and 3 , 2.5 and 4 hr for butorphanol , 1 , 2 or 4 mg , respectively . no patient developed a clinically important change in heart rate or blood pressure , and none experienced a decrease in respiratory rate below 12 breaths.min-1 . one of 69 patients ( 1.4 per cent ) who received butorphanol developed pruritus compared with ten ( 43 per cent ) of 23 patients who received morphine . the global assessments of the adequacy of analgesia were indistinguishable between morphine and butorphanol . epidural butorphanol provides safe , effective postoperative analgesia , has a prompt onset , and a limited duration . 
systemic and local administration of cyclosporine in the treatment of psoriasis . since 1984 , cyclosporine has been used increasingly for indications other than in prophylaxis of transplant rejection . current awareness that psoriasis is , at least in part , a t cell-mediated condition has led to the initiation of several studies of cyclosporine 's role in the treatment of this disease . the remarkable efficacy of systemically administered cyclosporine , even in severely refractory cases of psoriasis , has not only provided us with a new therapeutic option but also has helped further our understanding of the pathophysiology of psoriasis . although it has been hailed as a breakthrough , systemic cyclosporine usage is associated with undesirable sequelae , principally hypertension and decreased renal function . these effects limit its more widespread use . this review assesses current knowledge of the capabilities and prospects of systemic cyclosporine in the treatment of psoriasis , as well as the status of topical preparations . 
cyclosporine in nonpsoriatic dermatoses . this article reviews the indications , efficacy , and possible mechanisms of action of cyclosporine in the treatment of nonpsoriatic dermatoses . these dermatoses can be categorized according to their responsiveness to cyclosporine therapy as excellent , moderate , variable , and nonresponsive . the advantages and disadvantages of cyclosporine are discussed and guidelines are proposed for its use in nonpsoriatic dermatoses . 
topical cyclosporine for oral mucosal disorders . topical cyclosporine may be effective in the treatment of various oral mucosal disorders . in three open trials and in one double-blind study , a topical formulation of this drug produced significant improvement in oral lichen planus . cyclosporine blood levels were generally low in these studies and no abnormalities of laboratory values resulted during use . of six patients with oral bullous diseases treated with topical cyclosporine , four showed a decrease in erythema , partial healing of ulcerations , and a reduction in pain . three patients relapsed shortly after cyclosporine was discontinued . four of eight patients with persistent aphthous stomatitis remained virtually free of ulcers during 8 weeks of topical cyclosporine therapy . these results indicate that topical cyclosporine is beneficial as a therapy for oral lichen planus and possibly other mucosal diseases . 
management of patients and side effects during cyclosporine therapy for cutaneous disorders . cyclosporine has been used in the experimental treatment of multiple inflammatory diseases of presumed autoimmune origin , including insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , uveitis , rheumatoid arthritis , inflammatory bowel diseases , graves ' disease , and myasthenia gravis . in dermatology , the drug has been used successfully as primary therapy for psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis , alopecia areata , pyoderma gangrenosum , behcet 's disease , atopic dermatitis , and lichen planus . at a dose of 3 to 5 mg/kg per day , cyclosporine is well tolerated by most patients . however , because of concerns about its potential short - and long-term side effects , patients who use this drug require close monitoring . this review discusses appropriate clinical and laboratory evaluations , common and unusual side effects and their management , drugs that might alter the pharmacokinetics of cyclosporine metabolism , and criteria for dosage adjustments . 
laboratory monitoring of cyclosporine levels : guidelines for the dermatologist . the following guidelines are recommended for laboratory monitoring of circulating levels of cyclosporine in dermatology patients . measurements should be determined as trough levels in whole blood , not plasma or serum . the measurements should be performed with an assay that is specific for the parent cyclosporine compound ( e.g. , a high-performance liquid chromatography method or a specific monoclonal immunoassay ) . the results of nonspecific immunoassays that detect cyclosporine as well as its metabolites are difficult to interpret and can not readily be compared among different studies or laboratories . in psoriasis patients , the circulating concentration of cyclosporine does not correlate reliably with the therapeutic response . some patients may achieve an excellent response with blood levels in the range of 50 ng/ml ; others may show little or no response despite blood levels as high as 200 ng/ml . in patients with a poor clinical response , monitoring of cyclosporine levels may be useful to confirm that the drug has been taken and may provide an estimate of the degree of absorption and metabolism of the parent compound . because an upper limit of safety for the circulating concentration of cyclosporine has not been clearly defined , one should attempt to achieve a therapeutic response with the lowest possible dose . clinicians must carefully monitor patients for signs of cyclosporine toxicity , regardless of the circulating concentration of the drug . whole blood levels exceeding 250 ng/ml should be avoided . 
effects of cyclosporine on renal function in psoriasis patients . several prospective studies have documented the effectiveness of oral cyclosporine in the treatment of psoriasis . despite this , the use of cyclosporine has been limited because of concern about the possibility of drug-induced renal dysfunction . we review the effects of cyclosporine on renal function . 
immunity during cyclosporine therapy . cyclosporine is not cytotoxic but it inhibits the production of immunologic memory-building growth factors by cd4 + t lymphocytes . it also may have inhibitory effects on the effector phase of certain immune reactions . these inhibitory effects are largely reversible and when treatment is stopped , the immune competence of cyclosporine-treated patients returns to normal . in contrast , conventional cytotoxic immunosuppressive agents tend to exterminate the lymphocyte clones that are activated during therapy , and such clonal deletions may cause permanent loss of immunologic memory to those antigens because t lymphocytes are not readily restored in adults with involuted thymus . most transplant patients have received cyclosporine in combination with various other immunosuppressive agents , and reports suggest that a combination of this drug and conventional immunosuppressive agents may be associated with increased early appearance of non-hodgkin 's lymphoma and , possibly , endocrine-related tumors . an increase in cancers has not been observed in patients treated with cyclosporine alone for such conditions as psoriasis and autoimmune diseases . treatment of adults with cytotoxic immunosuppressive drugs may permanently delete t-lymphocyte clones that are required for control of latent oncogenic viruses or certain malignant cells . because of this , when such patients are treated with cyclosporine , further suppression of t-cell function combined with impairment of cytokine-mediated stimulation of natural killer cells and cytotoxic macrophages may facilitate tumor growth . consequently , it is predicted that if cyclosporine monotherapy is associated with an increased incidence of tumors , it would primarily affect psoriasis patients who are treated with cyclosporine after puva or methotrexate therapy . eventually , comparison of cancer incidence in different categories of patients should resolve this issue . 
interactions of epidermal cells and t cells in inflammatory skin diseases . multiple cell types and their factors and cytokines are involved in regulating the immune response in inflammatory skin diseases . stimulatory and inhibitory factors interact to determine whether the immune response is regulated up or down . normally , stimulatory signals are counteracted by inhibitory signals to prevent an immune reaction from being initiated . however , exogenous antigens and irritants or endogenous factors and altered immunogenic self-peptides can upset this balance . when that occurs , t cells are activated and an inflammatory skin reaction develops . lymphokines released from such activated t cells can modify the phenotype and function of normal keratinocytes . they can induce the expression of adhesion molecules and receptors involved in antigen presentation . furthermore , they can also stimulate keratinocyte proliferation . this may be important in development of the hyperplasia seen in inflammatory skin diseases , especially in psoriasis . cytokines released from the activated keratinocytes can both stimulate and attract t cells to the epidermis and thereby continue the ongoing immune reaction . 
effects of cyclosporine on immunologic mechanisms in psoriasis . a major impetus for further investigation of cellular immunologic mechanisms in psoriasis has been the discovery that cyclosporine , a potent immunosuppressive , is highly effective in the treatment of psoriasis . cyclosporine has significant inhibitory effects on the ability of t cells to become activated . however , a direct activity of this drug on human keratinocyte signal transduction or growth has been difficult to demonstrate at relevant concentrations . nevertheless , treatment of psoriasis or of 12-o-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate-treated murine skin with cyclosporine does reverse many epidermal abnormalities that are common to these two systems . this suggests that the compound exerts an indirect effect on epidermal keratinocytes in vivo , perhaps through immunocyte inhibition . during treatment of psoriasis patients , cyclosporine therapy resulted in selective changes in the numbers and functions of certain antigen-presenting cell subsets ( which were distinct from langerhans cells ) and t-cell subsets . these changes were accompanied by indirect evidence of decreased t-cell lymphokine release . lesional activity of cyclosporine-treated psoriasis patients was closely correlated with the degree of t-cell activation caused by antigen-presenting cells . cyclosporine inhibition of lymphokine or cytokine release may result in decreased recruitment of non-langerhans antigen-presenting cells into the epidermis and thus decreased immunoreactivity in the lesion . 
progressive inflammatory lesions of the brain parenchyma in localized scleroderma of the head . a patient with localized scleroderma of the head , uveitis , and raynaud 's phenomenon presented with generalized seizures , spastic hemiparesis , and local igg production in the cerebrospinal fluid . magnetic resonance imaging revealed progressive cortical and subcortical brain parenchymal lesions mainly adjacent to the cutaneous and bony lesions and probably of inflammatory origin . 
vulvar condylomas and squamous vestibular micropapilloma . differences in appearance and response to treatment . a study of 37 women with typical condylomas and so-called squamous micropapilloma was undertaken to determine their response to systemic interferon and/or podophyllin treatment . thirty lesions were classified as condylomas and 9 as squamous micropapillomas ; two women had both lesions . twenty-six ( 87 % ) of 30 condylomas responded , whereas only 1 ( 11 % ) of the 9 cases of micropapillomatosis showed a partial response ( p less than .001 ) to podophyllin and/or interferon . twenty-six biopsies from condylomas in which sufficient dna was available for analysis contained human papillomavirus ( hpv ) dna sequences that hybridized to an hpv 6 + 16 probe mix under nonstringent conditions . in contrast , hpv dna sequences could not be detected in any of the nine cases of micropapillomatosis . immunoperoxidase studies performed on these lesions failed to demonstrate viral capsid antigen . thus , despite certain similarities in the clinical presentation and microscopic features of condylomas and squamous micropapillomas , it is not clear at present whether micropapillomas are hpv-related lesions . 
irritant effect of a model surfactant on the human vulva and forearm . age-related differences . the reactivity of forearm and vulvar skin to sodium lauryl sulfate ( sls ) was studied in two groups of 20 healthy women each , 10 before and 10 after menopause . vulvar skin was less reactive to sls in both low and high concentrations than was forearm skin . transepidermal water loss measurement did not seem to be an indicator of irritant dermatitis in vulvar skin . capacitance measurements , reflecting changes in skin hydration , seemed to be more suitable for monitoring vulvar irritant dermatitis . age-related differences in irritant reaction were more apparent in low-grade irritant dermatitis induced by low concentrations of sls than in intense reactions to higher sls concentrations . 
blistering diseases . diagnostic help for primary care physicians . at presentation , the differential diagnosis of bullous disease may seem difficult . however , the diagnosis may be clarified by considering such factors as nikolsky 's sign , age of the patient at onset , and pattern and distribution of blisters . careful review of family , recreational , occupational , and drug histories may also help to identify the cause . 
rheumatoid arthritis . new developments in treatment . if a patient with active rheumatoid arthritis does not obtain significant relief from nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs , prompt institution of disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs ( dmards ) is recommended . if one agent fails , another may be tried . at present , hydroxychloroquine ( plaquenil ) sulfate is one of the most widely used and best tolerated . careful follow-up is essential with all dmards , however , because toxic effects may be severe and sometimes unpredictable . 
a mutation in the pro alpha 2 ( i ) gene ( col1a2 ) for type i procollagen in ehlers-danlos syndrome type vii : evidence suggesting that skipping of exon 6 in rna splicing may be a common cause of the phenotype . fibroblasts from a proband with ehlers-danlos syndrome type vii synthesized approximately equal amounts of normal and shortened pro alpha 2 ( i ) chains of type i procollagen . nuclease s1 probe protection experiments with mrna demonstrated that the pro alpha 2 ( i ) chains were shortened because of a deletion of most or all of the 54 nucleotides in exon 6 , the exon that contains codons for the cleavage site for procollagen n-proteinase . sequencing of genomic clones revealed a single-base mutation that converted the first nucleotide of intron 6 from g to a. therefore , the mutation was a change , in the - gt-consensus splice site , that produced efficient exon skipping . allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridizations demonstrated that the proband 's mother , father , and brother did not have the mutation . therefore , the mutation was a sporadic one . analysis of potential 5 ' splice sites in the 5 ' end of intron 6 indicated that none had favorable values by the two commonly employed techniques for evaluating such sites . the proband is the fourth reported proband with ehlers-danlos syndrome vii with a single-base mutation that causes skipping of exon 6 in the splicing of rna from either the col1a1 gene or col1a2 gene . no other mutations in the two type i procollagen genes have been found in the syndrome . therefore , such mutations may be a common cause of the phenotype . the primers developed should be useful in screening for the same or similar mutations causing the disease . 
right-to-left shunting through a patent foramen ovale caused by pulmonary hypertension associated with rheumatoid arthritis and sjogren 's syndrome : a case report . this case report presents a fifty-four-year-old woman with right-to-left shunt in the atrium . it seemed clinically at first that the shunt was due to atrial septal defect . however , she also had pulmonary disease associated with rheumatoid arthritis and sjogren 's syndrome . at autopsy atrial septal defect was not evident , but a patent foramen ovale and pulmonary artery disease were observed . this case suggests that pulmonary hypertension secondary to rheumatoid arthritis and sjogren 's syndrome could lead to right-to-left shunting through a patent foramen ovale . 
urticaria pigmentosa . systemic evaluation and successful treatment with topical steroids . nine patients with adult-onset urticaria pigmentosa were studied for the incidence of extracutaneous mast cell involvement and the efficacy of potent topical corticosteroid therapy for cutaneous lesions . seven of the nine patients had increased mast cells in the marrow biopsy specimens , and five patients had focal aggregates of mast cells . the bone scan was abnormal in one patient . liver-spleen scans revealed a shift of colloid uptake from liver to spleen in four patients . no abnormal gastrointestinal tract roentgenograms were obtained . urinary histamine metabolites correlated with nodular bone marrow involvement , but not with other parameters . results of the psychoneurologic testing revealed significant deviation from the norm with a verbal memory deficit in all nine patients and abnormalities on the minnesota multiphasic personality inventory in four patients . all nine patients were treated with 0.05 % betamethasone dipropionate ointment under occlusion over half of the body nightly for 6 weeks . seven of nine patients treated responded with almost complete resolution of their lesions . hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis suppression was evaluated with intramuscular cosyntropin stimulation and metyrapone administration during treatment . only two patients , both of whom used the medication improperly , developed transient abnormalities . slow return of lesions was noted 6 months after completion of therapy . remissions could be lengthened with single weekly applications of topical steroids . systemic involvement is frequent in patients with cutaneous mast cell disease and it is best demonstrated by bone marrow biopsy . mast cell lesions can be safely and effectively treated with topical steroids in motivated patients . 
human immunodeficiency virus-associated eosinophilic folliculitis . a unique dermatosis associated with advanced human immunodeficiency virus infection . we studied 13 patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection and a chronic pruritic folliculitis that was unresponsive to systemic treatment with bactericidal anti-staphylococcal antibiotics . the skin eruption was characterized by multiple urticarial follicular papules scattered on the trunk ( 100 % ) , the head and neck ( 85 % ) , and the proximal aspect of the extremities ( 62 % ) . absolute peripheral eosinophil counts were increased in six of 13 patients ; a relative peripheral eosinophilia was present in 10 of 13 patients . serum ige levels were elevated in all seven patients tested ( range , 88 to 9050 iu ) . histopathologic features included a folliculitis with eosinophils . pathogenic bacteria were not consistently found by routine bacterial skin cultures , cultures of skin biopsy specimens , or histopathologic evaluation . cd4 counts were decreased in all of the 12 patients tested ( less than 300 cells per cubic millimeter ) and were below 250 cells per cubic millimeter in 10 patients . a clinical response was noted to astemizole , to ultraviolet light in the b range , and to topical clobetasol propionate . these observations demonstrate that hiv-associated eosinophilic folliculitis is a unique hiv-related cutaneous disorder that is characterized by a culture-negative , chronic , pruritic folliculitis and a characteristic histopathologic picture . of special importance , because it is associated with cd4 counts of less than 250 to 300 cells per cubic millimeter , eosinophilic folliculitis appears to be an important clinical marker of hiv infection and , particularly , of patients at increased risk of developing opportunistic infections . we suggest that the term eosinophilic pustular folliculitis ( ofuji 's disease ) , previously used to describe this dermatosis in hiv-infected patients , should be discarded . 
intercellular iga dermatosis of childhood . selective deposition of monomer iga1 in the intercellular space of the epidermis . we describe a 7-year-old girl with recurrent pruritic vesiculopustular lesions involving the trunk , extremities , face , and oral mucosa . histopathologic examination revealed intraepidermal bullae containing neutrophils and eosinophils , and direct immunofluorescence test showed the deposition of iga in the intercellular space of the epidermis . circulating iga anti-intercellular antibodies were also detected by indirect immunofluorescence test . immunofluorescence studies using monoclonal antibodies to human iga subclasses showed that these iga antibodies belonged to iga1 . antisera against j chain and secretory component did not show any specific intercellular staining . surface iga ( + ) - b cells were transiently increased in the peripheral blood during the active stage of the disease . these results indicated the extragut origin of these iga antibodies . dapsone therapy was shown to be very effective . 
ichthyosis , exocrine pancreatic insufficiency , impaired neutrophil chemotaxis , growth retardation , and metaphyseal dysplasia ( shwachman syndrome ) . report of a case with extensive skin lesions ( clinical , histological , and ultrastructural findings ) . the shwachman syndrome comprises exocrine pancreatic insufficiency , growth retardation , and bone marrow hypoplasia resulting in neutropenia . clinical , morphological , and ultrastructural studies , as well as hair analysis , were performed in a patient with shwachman 's syndrome and severe ichthyosis . clinical findings were lamellar ichthyosiform desquamation on the extremities . the hair was scanty and short on the scalp , in the eyelashes , and in the eyebrows . the nails were hyperkeratotic . morphologic findings were slight , regular acanthosis and severe diffuse hyperkeratosis with variable parakeratosis . the granular layer was thickened . the papillary dermis showed very slight perivascular lymphocyte infiltration . the most prominent ultrastructural finding was the presence of solitary or multiple droplets of varying size in the cytoplasm of the keratinocytes . hair analysis revealed no abnormalities ; the cystine concentration in hair specimens was normal . 
corticosteroid-induced juxta-articular adiposis dolorosa . long-term treatment with high doses of corticosteroids leads to the development of truncal obesity and focal fatty deposition . these deposits characteristically are located on the face , the nuchal and truncal areas , and episternally , as well as in the mediastinum and epicardium . we studied a patient with juxta-articular adiposis dolorosa who had l-tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and was treated with high doses of prednisone . this is the first reported case of adiposis dolorosa occurring as a complication of corticosteroid treatment . alterations of fat metabolism induced by corticosteroid excess may have played a role in the development of this unusual painful syndrome . 
intralesional bleomycin sulfate therapy for warts . a novel bifurcated needle puncture technique . a multiple puncture technique using a bifurcated vaccination needle to introduce bleomycin sulfate ( 1 u/ml sterile saline solution ) into warts resulted in elimination of 92 % of a random series of 258 warts after a single treatment . recurrence was not observed during a 6-month follow-up period . six of the 66 patients required two to seven treatments for wart eradication , and four patients requested alternative therapy after initial failure with a single bleomycin treatment . 
scar revision . different scar revision techniques are compared on similar scars , all on the same patient . comparison of the final results is unique and interesting and provides insight into choosing the " optimal " technique for these procedures . historical perspective is provided . 
pupil cycle time and early autonomic involvement in ocular leprosy . ocular complications of leprosy patients often develop insidiously and with few if any symptoms . this study involves measurement of the pupil cycle time ( pct ) to evaluate the autonomic nerve system of the iris to determine the presence of subclinical intraocular involvement . the study included 19 lepromatous ( ll ) , 19 borderline lepromatous ( bl ) , and five borderline tuberculoid ( bt ) leprosy patients and involved 25 healthy volunteers , 10 patients with pulmonary tuberculosis and eight with duhring disease . the pct was measured in these groups . in all leprosy groups included in the study the pct was higher than in the control groups . moreover , the pct of the leprosy patients without any intraocular involvement was higher than in the controls . these results show that in the ophthalmic examination of leprosy patients without any symptoms the fact that autonomic nerve system of the eye is affected by the leprosy can often be determined by measuring the pct . 
serological evidence of infection with helicobacter pylori may predict gastrointestinal intolerance to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug ( nsaid ) treatment in rheumatoid arthritis . specific circulating antibodies to the spiral gastric organism , helicobacter pylori ( hp ) were detectable in 43 % of 68 patients with rheumatoid arthritis by complement fixation test ( cft ) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) , a frequency comparable with that of a normal , age-matched population . presence of these antibodies correlated strongly with a previous history of peptic ulcer disease ( pud ) and to the severity of nsaid-related dyspeptic symptoms , the latter often leading to multiple drug intolerance . this contrasts with short term , prospective nsaid toxicity data , which show little relationship between ulceration and hp carriage . this result suggests , however , that hp may have a definite role in the pathogenesis of symptomatic pud associated with more chronic nsaid usage , and may have important implications for ulcer prophylaxis in these patients . 
transferrin c subtypes in patients with rheumatoid arthritis . transferrin ( tf ) subtypes were investigated in 128 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) and the frequencies of tfc subtypes were compared with the results in normal individuals . the frequencies of the tf genes : c1 , c2 , c3 , d1 , and d2 were 0.4765 , 0.3867 , 0.0742 , 0.0390 and 0.0234 , respectively . the frequency of tfc2 gene was significantly higher in these patients ( 0.3867 ) compared to the value in the control group ( c2 = 0.247 ) . the relative risk of ra in association with tfc1c2 type was 2.0 , while it was 0.18 in association with tfc1c1 type and the results were statistically significant . this paper confirms the significant association between tfc2 and ra . furthermore , it appears from our results that tfc1 homozygous phenotype is protective for the development of ra . the results are discussed in the light of earlier suggestions that the tfc2 subtype confers an increased risk of cellular damage by enhancing hydroxyl radical formation , although it is possible that there exists a genetic linkage of tf variant to some other locus which is influencing susceptibility to ra . 
the prevalence of rheumatoid arthritis in the sultanate of oman . one thousand nine hundred and twenty-five omani adults aged 16 and over were studied in a house-to-house survey in representative areas of oman . seven cases ( five female ) are described who satisfied the 1987 ara criteria for rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) , indicating a prevalence of 3.6 per thousand adults . adjusted for the population structure , the prevalence was 8.4 per thousand adults . complementary data are also presented on cases of ra ascertained by special screening clinics in rural health centres and by hospital rheumatology clinics . in all parts of the study , cases of ra were less often seropositive than in european populations which may account for the lower prevalence of erosive disease . 
septic arthritis as a non-surgical complication in rheumatoid arthritis : relation to disease severity and therapy . more aggressive therapy including cytotoxic drugs is increasingly used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) , and may confer increased susceptibility to infections . septic arthritis is one infectious complication known to be overrepresented in ra . we studied the impact of disease severity and medication in a group of nine ra patients with proven septic arthritis , excluding those occurring as a complication of orthopaedic surgery . two control groups were used for comparison . the septic arthritis patients were functionally more incapacitated and more often treated with cytotoxic drugs . six of the nine septic arthritis patients had received an intra-articular injection into the infected joint within 3 months prior to the onset of the septic arthritis . only one of these occurred immediately after arthrocentesis . the annual frequency of septic arthritis was approximately 0.2 % . during the 4-year period studied the frequency was 0.5 % . when related to the number of glucocorticosteroid injections , a frequency of 1 per 2000 injections was found when late septic arthritis was included . the high frequency of delayed septic arthritis after intra-articular glucocorticosteroid administration should alert physicians to this complication . 
the development and use of patient knowledge questionnaire in rheumatoid arthritis . a multi-choice patient knowledge questionnaire ( pkq ) was developed for use with patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) . test/re-test was used to test its stability ( r = 0.81 ) , and kuder richardson formula 20 ( r = 0.72 ) for internal consistency . seventy randomly selected ra patients then completed the pkq in a rheumatology out-patient clinic of a large teaching hospital . there was a wide variation in total scores ranging from 3 to 28 out of 30 . total scores correlated with years of general education ( p less than 0.05 ) but not with disease duration or age . sixty-two per cent of patients knew that the cause of ra is , as yet , unknown but 27 % thought it could be caused by injury and 11 % by cold damp weather . fifty-two per cent had no idea why they had blood tests . all but four patients were taking some form of medication but there was widespread confusion about disease-modifying drugs and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ( nsaids ) . exercise was reasonably well understood but many patients were unable to differentiate between methods of energy conservation and joint protection . this study highlights the need for careful individual knowledge assessment by use of tools such as the pkq and effective patient education programmes . 
immunogenetic heterogeneity in rheumatoid disease as illustrated by different mhc associations ( dq , dw and c4 ) in articular and extra-articular subsets . genetic variants at drb1 ( dw subtypes ) , dqb , and c4 loci were compared in rheumatoid disease subjects with or without the extra-articular feature of felty 's syndrome or major vasculitis . dr4 positive subjects with rheumatoid arthritis alone showed no preferential associations with dqb or dw variants or with c4 null alleles . felty 's subjects showed associations with the dqb encoded dqw7 allele and with the c4b null allele but no preferential associations with any dw subtype of dr4 . by contrast dr4 + ve rheumatoid-vasculitic subjects showed associations with the dw14 as well as with dqw7 and the c4a null allele . these different mhc associations in different clinical disease subsets show that rheumatoid disease is immunogenetically heterogeneous and suggest that mhc genes outside the drb1 locus may also influence susceptibility or modify expression of the rheumatoid disease process . 
diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis in behcet 's syndrome . renal involvement in behcet 's syndrome is infrequent and the reported cases of glomerulonephritis consisted mainly of patients with focal glomerulonephritis . a patient with behcet 's syndrome and diffuse proliferative sclerosing glomerulonephritis with predominant disposition of igm is described . 
idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome terminating as disseminated t-cell lymphoma . the authors describe a case of idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome ( hes ) terminated as a t-cell lymphoma in a 3-year-old girl . the clinical course was chronic and characterized by chronic eczema , persistent peripheral blood eosinophilia , organomegaly , interstitial lung change , and pericarditis . postmortem examination demonstrated a disseminated t-cell lymphoma involving the inguinal lymph node , liver , lung , and kidney . the findings of the current case suggest a possibility that certain abnormalities in this case of idiopathic hes per se may have triggered the development of malignant lymphoma , and it may represent a transition of idiopathic hes into a t-cell lymphoma . other possible sequences are discussed . the development of t-cell malignancy in idiopathic hes in a girl is quite an unusual presentation . 
intravital detection of skin capillary aneurysms by videomicroscopy with indocyanine green in patients with progressive systemic sclerosis and related disorders . conventional capillaroscopy and infrared fluorescence videomicroscopy with indocyanine green were performed at the nailfold in 12 healthy controls and 38 patients with microangiopathy due to systemic sclerosis or related disorders . saccular aneurysms featuring head and neck ( type 1 ) and aneurysmatic enlargements ( type 2 ) were defined . microaneurysms were located at the apex or near the apex of capillary loops and were significantly more common in patients than in controls ( p less than 0.02 for type 1 and p less than 0.001 for type 2 ) . combination of the two lesions was found only in patients and appears to be a valuable new diagnostic sign for the presence of microangiopathy . in comparison with conventional capillaroscopy , about twice as many microaneurysms were detected by videomicroscopy with indocyanine green coupling almost completely to plasma proteins . the new technique allows visualization of capillary aneurysms even when filled only by plasma . 
relationship of limited joint mobility to abnormal foot pressures and diabetic foot ulceration . objective : to investigate the role of limited joint mobility ( ljm ) in causing abnormal foot pressures and foot ulceration . research design and methods : the subjects were recruited from a general diabetes clinic where patients were screened for neuropathy , retinopathy , and elevated plantar foot pressure . sixty-four patients in five groups were matched by age and sex in the following groups : group 1 , patients with ljm and neuropathy ; group 2 , nonneuropathic diabetic patients with ljm ; group 3 , patients with neuropathy and no ljm ; group 4 , diabetic control subjects ; and group 5 , nondiabetic control subjects . joint mobility was assessed in the foot at subtalar and metatarsophalangeal joints ; plantar foot pressures were assessed by optical pedobarography and neuropathic status by a biothesiometer and electrophysiology . results : joint mobility was reduced at both sites in groups 1 and 2 compared with groups 3 , 4 , and 5 ( p less than 0.001 ) . plantar foot pressures were significantly higher in groups 1 and 2 compared with groups 3 , 4 , and 5 ( p less than 0.001 ) . no differences in plantar foot pressures were observed between groups 1 and 2 . there were strong correlations between plantar foot pressures and joint mobility in the foot ( r = -0.7 , p less than 0.001 ) . previous foot ulceration was present in 65 % of patients in group 1 , none in group 2 , and 5 % in group 3 . conclusions : 1 ) ljm may be a major factor in causing abnormally high plantar foot pressures , 2 ) abnormal plantar foot pressures alone do not lead to foot ulceration , and 3 ) ljm contributes to foot ulceration in the susceptible neuropathic foot . 
interstitial lung disease . the interstitial lung diseases are comprised of a group of pulmonary disorders characterized clinically by diffuse infiltrates on the chest radiograph and histologically by distortion of the gas exchanging portion of the lung . the physiologic correlates are restriction of lung volumes and impaired oxygenation . the term " interstitial " when applied to these diseases is actually a misnomer because it implies that the inflammatory process is limited specifically to the area between the alveolar epithelial and capillary endothelial basement membranes . the diseases currently grouped as " interstitial " also frequently involve the alveolar epithelium , alveolar space , pulmonary microvasculature , and less commonly , the respiratory bronchioles , larger airways , and even the pleura . the enormous differential diagnosis of interstitial lung disease can be made manageable by understanding that pneumoconiosis , drug-induced disease , and hypersensitivity pneumonitis account for over 80 % of the responsible entities and can usually be identified from the patient 's history . the nine remaining diseases/disease categories include : sarcoidosis , idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis , bronchiolitis obliterans-organizing pneumonia , histiocytosis x , chronic eosinophilic pneumonia , collagen vascular disease-associated interstitial lung disease , granulomatous vasculitis ( wegener 's granulomatosis , churg-strauss syndrome , lymphomatoid granulomatosis ) , goodpasture 's syndrome , and pulmonary alveolar proteinosis . the diagnosis of a specific interstitial lung disease can be made via various means including the patient 's history , specific serologies , bronchoalveolar lavage , transbronchial biopsy , and biopsy of extrathoracic tissues or open lung biopsy . a directed diagnostic approach can be formulated based on an understanding of these techniques and a thorough knowledge of the clinical presentations and specific diagnostic criteria for each of the major diseases . this monograph will serve as a guide for the clinician to use in evaluating and treating patients with interstitial lung disease . we begin by reviewing the clinical presentation , diagnostic criteria , and management of specific interstitial lung diseases excluding pulmonary infection , neoplasm , and sarcoidosis . pneumoconiosis and drug-induced syndromes are not discussed in detail , but the agents responsible and pertinent exposures are presented in tabular form in the discussion of the general diagnostic approach . 
intraosseous lipomatosis . a case report . we report a case of systemic intraosseous lipomatosis involving the proximal femur , both ends of the tibia , and the tarsal and metatarsal bones . the lesions progressed during a five-year follow-up with a pathological fracture of the tibial plateau . ct scans were characteristic and helpful in diagnosis but mr imaging added little information . intraosseous lipomatosis is a hamartomatous malformation due to hyperplasia of adipose tissue , and is fundamentally different from solitary benign intraosseous lipoma . management involves reconstruction of any pathological fracture . large progressive lesions should be treated by curettage and grafting in an attempt to prevent such fractures . 
ten-year results of operations for rheumatoid cervical spine disorders . the outcome of operations performed on 38 patients for rheumatoid disorders of the cervical spine were analysed 10 or more years later . the mean age of the patients at the time of operation was 56 years ( 35 to 77 ) ; 32 had seropositive disease . the mean duration of the disease was 17 years ( four to 36 ) . twenty-seven patients had painful anterior atlanto-axial subluxation ( aas ) , nine had subaxial subluxation alone and two had severe cranial subluxation of the odontoid , one also with subaxial subluxation . one patient died from postoperative staphylococcal septicaemia and another 18 died during the follow-up period . patients with coincident cardiac or other diseases , and those with cranial subluxation of the odontoid of more than 3 mm had an increased mortality . neither the patients ' age nor the magnitude of aas correlated with mortality . of the 37 patients with occipitocervical pain , 30 were relieved and all the six patients with tetraparesis were improved . of the 24 gallie fusions only 12 were solidly united ; patients with long-term cortisone treatment were more likely to develop pseudarthrosis . there was no correlation between clinical outcome and radiological result . four patients had further operations to treat subluxation which developed below the fused segments . 
tarsal tunnel syndrome . causes and results of operative treatment . from 1975 to 1988 , operative treatment was performed on 50 feet in 45 patients with tarsal tunnel syndrome . the causes of this syndrome were correlated with operative findings and included ganglia in 18 , and a bony prominence from talocalcaneal coalition in 15 . five feet had sustained an injury , tumours were found in three and there was no obvious cause in nine . in most cases in need of operative treatment , there was a space-occupying lesion . classifying the results according to causes , those with coalition or a tumour fared better , and idiopathic and traumatic cases had a worse outcome . in cases with a definite lesion , an excellent result can be expected from surgical treatment carried out soon after onset of the condition . 
the surgical treatment of ingrowing toenails . two prospective studies of ingrowing toenail management were conducted . in the first , 163 patients ( 204 ingrowing nail edges ) who had not had previous surgery were randomised and treated by total nail avulsion , nail edge excision , or nail edge excision with phenolisation of the germinal matrix ; recurrence rates one year postoperatively were 73 % , 73 % and 9 % respectively . in the second study , 63 ingrowing nail edges which had recurred after previous operations underwent nail edge excision and phenolisation . there was a 5 % recurrence rate and 5 % incidence of dystrophy of the nail one year after operation . 
failure of internal fixation of displaced femoral neck fractures in rheumatoid patients . we reviewed the records and radiographs from 10 hospitals to identify 50 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) who had sustained 52 femoral neck fractures . most patients were female ( 88 % ) , elderly ( mean age 66 years ) and had had severe polyarticular disease for a mean duration of 16 years . over half had taken systemic corticosteroids , nearly all were severely osteopenic but few had rheumatoid changes in the hip . of the 20 fractures treated by internal fixation 12 had complications including nonunion ( 5 ) , osteonecrosis ( 5 ) , infection ( 1 ) , and intertrochanteric fracture ( 1 ) . only one of the nine undisplaced fractures required reoperation , but seven of the 11 displaced fractures had revision surgery . twenty fractures were treated by primary total hip arthroplasty with only one early complication . the other 12 fractures had been treated by hemiarthroplasty ( 9 ) , hip excision ( 1 ) or non-operatively ( 2 ) . our results suggest that , in elderly rheumatoid patients , severely displaced femoral neck fractures should be treated by total hip replacement . 
recruitment of neutrophils during ige-dependent cutaneous late phase reactions in the mouse is mast cell-dependent . partial inhibition of the reaction with antiserum against tumor necrosis factor-alpha . much of the clinically important pathology associated with ige-dependent disorders is thought to reflect the actions of the blood-borne leukocytes recruited during these responses . to evaluate the extent to which mast cells are responsible for the leukocyte infiltration associated with ige-dependent cutaneous reactions , we attempted to elicit these responses in normal mice , genetically mast cell-deficient w/wv mice , and in w/wv mice selectively repaired of their mast cell deficiency by the intradermal injection of cultured mast cells derived from the congenic normal ( + / + ) mice . we found that the tissue swelling associated with ige-dependent passive cutaneous anaphylaxis reactions developed rapidly and diminished markedly from 2 to 4 h after antigen challenge , but remained detectable for at least 24 h after elicitation of the responses . infiltration of leukocytes ( predominantly neutrophils ) also occurred at these sites , but reached maximal levels 6-12 h after antigen challenge , persisted at high levels for 24 h , and largely waned by 48 h. virtually all of the tissue swelling and leukocyte infiltration associated with ige-dependent cutaneous reactions was mast cell dependent . intradermal injection of 40 u of recombinant murine tnf-alpha ( rmtnf-alpha ) elicited neutrophil infiltration similar in magnitude and kinetics to that observed after ige-dependent mast cell degranulation . a rabbit anti-rmtnf-alpha ( r anti-rmtnf-alpha ) antiserum , which was able to inhibit 84 % of the neutrophil infiltration observed after i.d. injection of rmtnf-alpha , inhibited ige - , and mast cell-dependent leukocyte infiltration by 47 + / - 7 % in three separate experiments . these findings indicate that tnf-alpha contributes to mast cell-dependent recruitment of leukocytes during ige-dependent cutaneous late phase reactions , but suggest that other mast cell-associated mediators probably also contribute to this response . 
growth factor-induced acceleration of tissue repair through direct and inductive activities in a rabbit dermal ulcer model . the roles of polypeptide growth factors in promoting wound healing and in directing the specificity and sequence of responses of different tissues in wounds are little understood . we investigated the influence of four growth factors on the rates of healing of a novel full thickness dermal ulcer placed on an avascular base in the rabbit ear . the wound model precludes significant wound contraction and requires new granulation tissue and epithelial cells for healing to originate centripetally . 5 micrograms ( 7-31 pmol/mm2 ) of platelet-derived growth factor-b chain ( pdgf-bb ) , basic fibroblast growth factor ( bfgf ) , and epidermal growth factor ( egf ) applied locally at the time of wounding resulted in a twofold increase in complete reepithelialization of treated wounds ( pdgf-bb , p = 0.02 chi square analysis ; bfgf , p = 0.04 ; egf , p = 0.05 ) ; transforming growth factor ( tgf ) - beta 1 significantly inhibited reepithelialization ( p = 0.05 ) . both pdgf-bb and tgf-beta 1 uniquely increased the depth and area of new granulation tissue ( p less than 0.005 ) , the influx of fibroblasts , and the deposition of new matrix into wounds . explants from 7-d old pdgf-bb-treated wounds remained metabolically far more active than controls , incorporating 473 % more [ 3h ] thymidine into dna ( p = 0.05 ) and significantly more [ 3h ] leucine and [ 3h ] proline into collagenase-sensitive protein ( p = 0.04 ) . the results establish that polypeptide growth factors have significant and selective positive influences on healing of full thickness ulcers in the rabbit . 
identification of two collagen domains within the bullous pemphigoid autoantigen , bp180 . bullous pemphigoid ( bp ) is an autoimmune disease characterized by subepidermal vesicles and the presence of autoantibodies directed against the epidermal basement membrane zone . previous studies have identified two protein components of the hemidesmosome , bp180 and bp230 , as the primary antigenic targets of bp autoantibodies . we have recently reported the isolation of a 1.0-kb bp180 cdna . sequence analysis presented in this report reveals that this partial bp180 cdna encodes two protein domains which have primary structures that are characteristic of the triple helical domains of collagens , i.e. , glycine appears at every third position and over one-third of the remaining residues are proline . the two collagen domains have lengths of 242 and 30 amino acids and are separated by a noncollagen stretch of 12 amino acids . collagenase digestion of the bp180 cdna-encoded fusion protein generated a peptide fragment with a size that was consistent with the predicted locations of the collagenase digestion sites . a possible physiological function for the collagen domains of the bp180 hemidesmosomal protein may be to form stable interactions with constituents of the extracellular matrix of the cutaneous basement membrane zone . such interactions may provide the molecular framework for the adhesion between the basal keratinocyte and the basal lamina . 
the abraded punch graft for pitted facial scars . the abraded punch graft procedure is one in which the surrounding scar area and the graft itself are superficially dermabraded before correction of the defect . this alternative procedure has distinct advantages over the standard punch graft and should be considered when contemplating the surgical correction of " ice pick " facial scarring . following the normal reparative process , the abraded punch graft heals with a pleasing aesthetic appearance . 
skin ultrasound in dermatologic surgical planning . high-resolution ultrasonography was performed on 55 patients with palpable skin lesions , all submitted to surgical excision and to histologic diagnosis . in all the cases , the ultrasound picture was confirmed by the surgical appearance of the lesions . the sonographic structure was characteristic in the case of cysts and angiomas , lymphangiomas in particular . ultrasonography is considered a simple and reliable technique for the pre-operative evaluation of skin nodules , as it gives a clear picture of their size , depth , and outline . however , sonography can not substitute for the clinical dermatologic approach and the need for an histologic diagnosis . 
incisional slit grafting . incisional slit grafting , a new and greatly improved technique in hair transplantation , is described . incisional slit grafting utilizes larger numbers of smaller grafts than does traditional punch grafting . no tissue is removed from the recipient bed . the vascular supply is conserved , resulting in an increased graft yield . the clumping and stalking effect associated with traditional round grafting is eliminated largely , and a more natural frontal hairline is achieved . 
hair transplantation ( a new method for recipient site suturing ) : the upper dermal running stitch . recipient hair transplant plugs may heal into place with palpable , and unfortunately , visible borders . this appearance , called " cobblestoning , " is reminiscent of the bumps in a cobblestone street . the author presents a new , rapid method of suturing transplanted plugs that greatly reduces cobblestoning , virtually eliminates traumatic plug loss , and facilitates row-by-row hair transplantation . additionally , postoperative bandaging is not necessary , shower cleansing may commence within hours , and postoperative activity may be unlimited . 
regional variation in the expression of pemphigus foliaceus , pemphigus erythematosus , and pemphigus vulgaris antigens in human skin . the expression of the pemphigus foliaceus ( pf ) , pemphigus erythematosus ( pe ) , and pemphigus vulgaris ( pv ) antigens in 16 different regions of normal human skin was evaluated by indirect immunofluorescence by using sera with a high titer of pf , pe , and pv antibodies . regional variations were observed in the expression of all these antigens . the expression of the pf and pe antigens , as measured by endpoint titer of antibody reactivity , was highest in skin specimens obtained from the upper torso , and lowest in those from the buccal mucosa , lower torso , and scalp . this distribution pattern differed from that of pv antigen , whose expression was highest in buccal mucosa and scalp . these patterns correlate with , and may provide a partial explanation for , the different distribution of skin lesions in these different forms of pemphigus . 
glycosaminoglycans production by cultured skin fibroblasts from the pasini and cockayne-touraine forms of dominant dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa . qualitative and quantitative comparisons of glycosaminoglycans e ( gag ) production were made on fibroblast lines cultured from the skin of six patients with the pasini ( albopapuloid ) form of dominant dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa , six with the non-albopapuloid form ( cockayne-touraine ) , eight lines from patients with simplex or recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa and eight lines from normal individuals . a reasonable match of donor age and gender , site , and passage number was achieved . contrary to an earlier report , the lines from the pasini group were unexceptional in the amount of gag they secreted and the proportions of sulfated and nonsulfated gag showed no consistent difference from the cockayne-touraine or control lines . the pasini lines secreted 77 + / - 18 ( sem ) microgram gag-uronic acid per 10 ( 7 ) cells and the cockayne-touraine lines 81 + / - 12 micrograms at equivalent cells densities . sulfated gag represented averages of 19 + / - 4 + in pasini lines , 17 + / - 5 % in cockayne-touraine , and 14 + / - 3 % in controls . these findings are consistent with current views of albopapuloid lesions as an unreliable clinical sign in epidermolysis bullosa and bring into question the validity of the pasini entity . 
drug-induced pemphigus : autoantibodies directed against the pemphigus antigen complexes are present in penicillamine and captopril-induced pemphigus . pemphigus is an autoimmune blistering disease characterized by circulating autoantibodies directed against the keratinocyte cell surface . the two variants , pemphigus foliaceus and pemphigus vulgaris , can be distinguished at the molecular level by immunochemical studies . the large majority of patients with pemphigus develop the disease spontaneously ; however , there is a small group of patients who develop pemphigus after treatment with certain medications , of which penicillamine and captopril are the best documented . most patients with drug-induced pemphigus have circulating and/or tissue bound epidermal cell surface autoantibodies ; however , the molecular specificity of these autoantibodies has not been studied . we performed immunoprecipitation studies utilizing extracts of 125i-labeled suction blister epidermis and the sera of three patients with drug-induced pemphigus foliaceus ( two due to penicillamine and one due to captopril ) and one patient with captopril-induced pemphigus vulgaris . we found that the three patients with drug-induced pemphigus foliaceus had circulating autoantibodies that are directed against the pemphigus foliaceus antigen complex and that the one patient with drug-induced pemphigus vulgaris had circulating autoantibodies that are directed against the pemphigus vulgaris antigen complex . this study demonstrates that autoantibodies from drug-induced pemphigus patients have the same antigenic specificity , on a molecular level , as do autoantibodies from other pemphigus patients . 
inner ear cholesteatoma and the preservation of cochlear function . labyrinthine destruction by direct cholesteatoma invasion has always been considered a serious threat to the inner ear function . a number of reports in the literature have cited both patients who had preservation of hearing despite widespread erosion of the labyrinth by cholesteatoma and patients who had retained auditory function despite surgical removal of the matrix from the labyrinth . in most cases the vestibular portion of the inner ear was invaded but cases of cochlear involvement have been described as well . twelve cases with pre-operative auditory function preservation despite extensive labyrinthine destruction treated at our institution are reported . seven cases retained cochlear function post-operatively . possible explanations of this occurrence and implications of related with hearing preservation in the presence of widespread inner ear destruction by chronic inflammatory disease are discussed . 
lateral sinus thrombosis : a problem still with us lateral sinus thrombosis is now a rare complication of ear disease in the developed world , since the advent of the widespread use of antibiotics . the classic picture is often modified by previous antibiotic treatment making diagnosis and management difficult . lack of familiarity with this condition amongst present day otologists may lead to late diagnosis and treatment . we review three cases that we have managed recently and compare their clinical courses with the classic description of the disease . 
vaginal birth after cesarean : a meta-analysis of morbidity and mortality . the cesarean birth rate has continued to climb despite efforts to counteract it . a major reason for this rise is the practice of elective repeat cesarean . we conducted a meta-analysis that included 31 studies with a total of 11,417 trials of labor to evaluate the association between birth route after a cesarean and morbidity and mortality for the mother and infant . summary odds ratios were calculated . maternal febrile morbidity was significantly lower after a trial of labor than after an elective repeat cesarean . the intended birth route made no difference in the rates of uterine dehiscence or rupture . the use of oxytocin , presence of a recurrent indication for the previous cesarean , and presence of an unknown uterine scar were also unassociated with dehiscence or rupture . after excluding antepartum deaths , fetuses weighing less than 750 g , and congenital anomalies incompatible with life , we found no difference in perinatal death rates . the proportion of 5-minute apgar scores of 6 or lower was higher after a trial of labor , but we were unable to exclude very low birth weight fetuses or those with congenital anomalies from this analysis . our findings argue for trials of labor for more women after a cesarean birth . 
fine structure of active and healed duodenal ulcer . in order to characterize the fine structure of active and healed duodenal ulcers , we examined tissue specimens of patients with active duodenal ulcer disease ( n = 30 ) before and after treatment with either antacids ( n = 16 ) or h2-receptor antagonists ( n = 14 ) , by light microscopy and various electron microscopic techniques , e.g. , scanning and transmission electron microscopy . the characteristic histological feature of both the active and healed duodenal ulcer was the appearance of periodic acid-schiff ( pas ) - positive epithelial cells at the edge of the ulcers . electron microscopy revealed that these cells were similar to a special type of mucus-secreting cell in the antrum ( surface mucous cell ) . their mucus granules contained mainly neutral glycoproteins . helicobacter pylori were found attached to these cells in tissue specimens from 12 of 30 patients ( 40 % ) . the mucous structure destroyed during the ulcerative phase regained its normal net-like structure after treatment . the ultrastructural healing process of duodenal ulcer was characterized by the presence of gastric metaplasia , by stunted microvilli of the duodenal epithelium ( p less than 0.001 vs. control group ) , and an increased number of lysosome-like bodies ( p less than 0.001 vs. control group ) of the epithelial cells . these results were independent of the type of treatment , and showed that the repair mechanisms were incomplete after a 4-wk period of treatment . 
vascular and nonvascular expression of incam-110 . a target for mononuclear leukocyte adhesion in normal and inflamed human tissues . inducible cell adhesion molecule 110 ( incam-110 ) , is a 110-kd adhesion receptor for lymphocytes and monocytes identified on cytokine-activated endothelium . using immunoperoxidase techniques , little or no incam-110 was detected on endothelium in normal human tissues . in contrast , incam-110 was expressed in postcapillary venules in a variety of active inflammatory processes . in acute appendicitis , incam-110 was found coincident with strong expression of endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule 1 ( elam-1 ) , a cytokine-inducible molecule that functions in neutrophil adhesion . however , in certain chronic inflammatory processes ( eg , sarcoidosis ) , incam-110 was observed without simultaneous elam-1 expression . anti-incam-110 antibody e1/6 also marked several extravascular cell types , including lymphoid dendritic cells , some tissue macrophages , synovial lining cells , and reactive mesothelial cells . these data suggest a role for endothelial incam-110 in the pathophysiology of both acute and chronic inflammatory reactions . furthermore incam-110 may function as an adhesion molecule for mononuclear leukocytes in a variety of extravascular sites . 
transtracheal delivery of oxygen : efficacy and safety for long-term continuous therapy . transtracheal ( tt ) oxygen delivery involves administration of oxygen percutaneously through a catheter inserted in the suprasternal trachea . transtracheal oxygen delivery has been proposed as a means of overcoming the high visibility , inconvenience , and discomfort associated with nasal cannula use . this report describes our experience using tt delivery in 40 patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( n = 32 ) and other types of lung disease ( n = 8 ) . overall acceptance of tt catheter use was high and only 5 subjects elected to discontinue use . we believe the tt route is a relatively safe approach for oxygen administration and a promising method of improving patient compliance . it also offers the potential of more adequately oxygenating patients with refractory hypoxemia . 
tumor necrosis factor alpha in middle ear cholesteatoma and its effect on keratinocytes in vitro . tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) was found in human middle ear cholesteatoma tissues by the immunoperoxidase method using rabbit anti human tnf-alpha immunoglobulin g. it appeared to be localized in the epithelium and connective tissue of cholesteatomas studied , particularly on basal and spinous cells , and macrophages . the epithelium of normal external ear canal skin was lightly stained , but the staining was much weaker than that of the cholesteatomas observed . in vitro , recombinant mouse tnf-alpha stimulated proliferation , protein synthesis , and terminal differentiation of basal keratinocytes . these stimulatory effects were blocked by the anti-tnf-alpha immunoglobulin g , which by itself had no effect on basal keratinocytes . these findings suggest that tnf-alpha plays an important role in the development of cholesteatomas seen clinically . 
short-term changes in renal function , blood pressure , and electrolyte levels in patients receiving cyclosporine for dermatologic disorders . we compared the changes in renal function , blood pressure ( bp ) , and concentrations of serum potassium , magnesium , and urate ( uric acid ) in two groups of patients not given transplants . group 1 , comprising 21 psoriatic patients , was treated with 14 mg/kg per day of oral cyclosporine for 4 weeks in a prospective , placebo-controlled study ; group 2 , comprising 28 patients with diverse cutaneous diseases , was given 6 mg/kg per day of oral cyclosporine for 1 to 3 months in a prospective , open-labeled study . renal function ( determined by serum urea nitrogen [ sun ] and creatinine levels and urinalysis ) , bp , serum electrolyte levels ( potassium and magnesium ) , and urate level were measured weekly for the first 4 weeks in both groups , and then , after 2 and 3 months of therapy , in group 2 only . during the first 4 weeks in group 1 patients , there were significant increases in values of sun , creatinine , bp , potassium , and urate , and a significant decrease in the serum magnesium value . when data for the two groups were combined , the changes from pretherapy values in each of the above measures ( except systolic bp ) during the first 4 weeks correlated significantly with cyclosporine trough levels . in group 2 , the changes that occurred in the first 4 weeks in the sun value , sun/creatinine ratio , and bp were magnified over the subsequent 8 weeks of treatment . in the combined group for the first 4 weeks of therapy , duration of therapy , independent of cyclosporine trough levels , correlated with changes in sun , creatinine , and urate levels , but not with changes in the potassium or magnesium level or in bp . we conclude that the cyclosporine blood level was a better discriminant than cyclosporine dosage in the analysis of renal dysfunction and hypertension in these patients . 
distribution of skin-derived antileucoproteases ( skalp ) in the marginal zone of the spreading psoriatic lesion . two new elastase inhibitors ( skalp , skin-derived antileucoproteases ) were recently described in the lesional skin in psoriasis . the present study investigated the distribution of skalp activity in the marginal zone of spreading psoriatic plaques . in a 4-mm zone immediately adjacent to the erythemato-squamous plaques , skalp activity was slightly increased compared to distant uninvolved skin . within the lesion the anti-elastase activity was pronounced , but was significantly higher in the central zone of the plaque compared to the periphery . the appearance of skalp in the psoriatic lesion appears to be a late event compared to endothelial involvement , intraepidermal accumulation of pmns , epidermal proliferation and abnormal keratinization . this observation lends further support for the hypothesis that the induction of anti-elastase activity is associated with the off-switch of cutaneous inflammation . 
tenascin expression in hyperproliferative skin diseases . the expression of tenascin , a recently discovered extracellular matrix glycoprotein , was studied by immunohistochemistry in normal human skin and in a number of skin diseases with epidermal hyperproliferation such as psoriasis , basal cell carcinoma , bowen 's disease and solar keratosis . tenascin expression in the upper dermis of normal skin was found to vary from almost absent to patchy along the basal membrane . staining was continuous and intense around blood vessels , hair follicles and eccrine sweat ducts . in basal cell carcinoma a marked expression of tenascin was found in the tumour stroma , especially adjacent to the basal membrane surrounding the tumour cell nests . in bowen 's disease and solar keratosis , tenascin expression was found in the dermis next to the keratinocytes . in psoriasis the dermal papillae of clinically involved skin were intensely stained and a continuous band of tenascin was present in the upper dermis along the basal membrane . the distribution of tenascin differed from other known extracellular matrix components . 
dermatology and the human gene map . chromosomal localization has been established for many genetic traits . gene mapping may lead to the identification of disease genes , an understanding of pathogenesis , and the development of rational therapy , as well as facilitating antenatal diagnosis and genetic counselling . ' the new genetics ' is therefore of great interest to the clinician . unfortunately the complex technology and unfamiliar vocabulary of molecular biology often deter non-specialists from keeping abreast of these developments . this account explains the principles of gene mapping , discusses its relevance to dermatologists , and lists the established loci of dermatologically important genes . 
allergic contact and photocontact dermatitis due to psoralens in patients with psoriasis treated with topical puva . the incidence and clinical features of allergic contact and/or photocontact dermatitis due to psoralens were examined in 371 patients with psoriasis treated with topical puva . the psoralen derivatives used in the study were 8-methoxypsoralen ( 8mop ) , 3-carbethoxypsoralen ( 3cps ) , 4,6,4 ' - trimethylangelicin ( tma ) and 7-methyl pyridopsoralen ( mpp ) . of 371 patients treated with 8mop , three ( 0.8 % ) developed an acute dermatitis in the puva-treated areas . this incidence was significantly lower ( p less than 0.01 ) than that for 3cps ( four of 10 patients ) or that for tma ( six of 17 patients ) . none of the seven patients receiving mpp on puva had a reaction . it was confirmed that these dermatitis reactions were due to contact and/or photocontact allergy to psoralens by several methods that include patch and photopatch tests , photopatch test mapping , determination of the minimal erythema dose ( med ) and immunohistochemistry . 
cyclosporin a in atopic dermatitis : therapeutic response is dissociated from effects on allergic reactions . fourteen patients with severe chronic atopic dermatitis were treated with cyclosporin a ( cya , sandimmun ; 5 mg/kg/day ) for 7-16 weeks . all showed a marked clinical improvement and half could omit topical corticosteroid treatment during therapy . adverse effects were minor , but two patients relapsed despite continued treatment . in the others , the disease recurred soon after stopping cya . serum ige levels and prick-test responses were unchanged by cya . immediate and late-phase cutaneous responses to intradermal house dust mite antigen ( hdm ) were significantly increased during treatment ; but a delayed response , present at 24 and 48 h , was unaffected . four of six patients challenged with hdm patch tests to tape-stripped skin during treatment showed eczematous reactions at 48 h. thus , cyclosporin a has a powerful therapeutic effect in atopic dermatitis but does not reduce allergic responses to inhalant antigens . 
' high single-dose ' european puva regimen also causes an excess of non-melanoma skin cancer . we report the results of a long-term ( 12.8 years ) follow-up study of the detection of malignant and benign skin tumours in patients with psoriasis , who were treated with puva according to the european , ' high single-dose ' regimen . a total of 13 squamous cell carcinomas ( scc ) and 24 basal cell carcinomas ( bcc ) were diagnosed in 11 of 260 patients . the incidence of both scc and bcc was increased in comparison with the general dutch population . the ratio of scc to bcc in the general population was 1:8 but was 1:2.5 in our study group . a positive correlation was observed between the development of scc and the total uva dosage , the age of the patient at the start of the puva treatment and a history of arsenic use . this dose-related increase in the incidence of scc , reported in studies from the u.s.a. , has not been found in earlier european studies . the average time period between the start of puva therapy and the diagnosis of the first malignant skin tumour was 6.0 years for scc and 4.7 years for bcc . among the 49 benign skin tumours were actinic keratoses , a keratoacanthoma and ' puva keratoses ' , a newly described hyperkeratotic lesion , especially found in puva-treated patients . 
induction of lesions of dermatitis herpetiformis by autologous serum . in the present study various factors which contribute to the initiation of lesions in dermatitis herpetiformis ( dh ) were examined . thirty-one patients with dh , seven with bullous pemphigoid , two with linear iga disease and two healthy subjects were studied either before starting treatment or after stopping dapsone for up to 5 days . intradermal inoculation of freshly prepared autologous serum was followed after 18-24 h by the formation of dh-like lesions in 24/31 dh patients . the lesions were erythematous papules , often with vesicles and microscopically showed papillary tip microabscesses . serum-induced formation of lesions only occurred in patients with active dh with some spontaneous lesion formation : it did not occur in any of the non-dh controls . the formation of lesions was dose-related , declining proportionately with dilution of the serum down to 1/16 . plasma prepared by various methods of anticoagulation ( heparin , citrate , edta ) caused lesser reactions , while addition of heparin or epsilon-amino caproic acid ( eaca ) , but not citrate , to serum substantially inhibited the formation of lesions . this suggested the responsible factor might be a protease . other vasoactive agents including histamine ( 1-4 micrograms ) and compound 48/80 ( 1-5 micrograms ) caused normal immediate wealing . dh-like lesions occurred in only one of 13 subjects challenged with histamine and two of nine challenged with 48/80 . in all these , autologous serum elicited large vesicular responses . there is a factor ( s ) in serum in dh which can initiate the formation of lesions . this factor appears to be activated by clotting and can be inhibited by heparin and eaca , suggesting it may be a protease . 
erythema elevatum diutinum mimicking porphyria cutanea tarda . a case of erythema elevatum diutinum ( eed ) closely resembling porphyria cutanea tarda ( pct ) is reported . the initial skin biopsies were suggestive for pct but porphyrin levels in the urine , stool and plasma were normal . a further biopsy from an early cutaneous lesion showed a leucocytoclastic vasculitis with fibrinoid necrosis of the vessel walls . 
benign persistent papular acantholytic and dyskeratotic eruption : a case report and review of the literature . we report a case of a 35-year-old female with a persistent pruritic acantholytic and dyskeratotic eruption on the chest and vulva . the light and electron microscopic studies showed suprabasal epidermal clefting with acantholysis and dyskeratotic cells . we suggest that the most appropriate term for this case is that of benign persistent papular acantholytic and dyskeratotic eruption . 
acquired dermal melanocytosis of the face and extremities . four cases of dermal melanocytosis with symmetrical areas of hyperpigmentation involving the face and extremities are reported . light and electron microscopic studies showed changes similar to those seen in naevus of ota . 
six year follow up of infants with bacteriuria on screening . objective -- to determine the value of screening for bacteriuria in infants with special emphasis on the natural course of untreated asymptomatic bacteriuria , renal growth , and renal damage . design -- prospective six year follow up of infants with bacteriuria on screening in an unselected infant population . setting -- paediatric outpatient clinic . patients -- 50 infants ( 14 girls , 36 boys ) with bacteriuria on screening verified by suprapubic aspiration from an unselected population of 3581 infants in a defined area of gothenburg . interventions -- children with asymptomatic bacteriuria and normal findings on initial urography were untreated , although other infections were treated . main outcome measures -- culture of urine and determination of c reactive protein concentration every six weeks for the first six months after diagnosis , every three months from six months to two years , and every six months between two and three years ; thereafter yearly urine culture . evaluation of renal concentrating capacity with a desmopressin test ; radiological examination , including first and follow up urography and micturition cystourethrography without antibiotic cover ; and measurement of renal parenchymal thickness and renal surface area . results -- of the original 50 infants , 37 ( 12 girls , 25 boys ) were followed up for at least six years . two infants developed pyelonephritis within two weeks after bacteriuria was diagnosed ; the others remained free of symptoms . 45 infants were untreated ; the bacteriuria cleared spontaneously in 36 and in response to antibiotics given for infections in the respiratory tract in eight . recurrences of bacteriuria were observed in 10 of the 50 children , of whom one had pyelonephritis . no child had more than one recurrence . at follow up urography in 36 of the 50 children ( 9 girls , 27 boys ) after a median of 32 months no child had developed renal damage . first samples tested for renal concentrating capacity showed significantly higher values than those from a reference population ( mean sd score 0.50 , 95 % confidence interval 0.21 to 0.79 ; p less than 0.001 ) , but the last samples showed no significant difference ( mean sd score 0.08 , -0.24 to 0.40 ; p greater than 0.05 ) . conclusions -- mass screening for bacteriuria in infancy results primarily in detection of innocent bacteriuric episodes and is not recommended . 
phosgene ( chlorophenyl ) hydrazones , strong sensitizers found in yellow sweaters bleached with sodium hypochlorite , defined as causative allergens for contact dermatitis by an experimental screening method in animals [ published erratum appears in contact dermatitis 1990 nov ; 23 ( 5 ) :383 ] 12 young men developed allergic contact dermatitis from wearing yellow cotton sweaters . we attempted to identify the causative agents by an experimental screening method in animals . guinea pigs were sensitized with an acetone extract of the sweater material , by means of the guinea pig maximization test ( gpmt ) . active ingredients were then separated from the extract , by step-by-step patch test screening of chromatographic fractions in the guinea pigs , and finally analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry ( gc-ms ) . although there were 2 allergens with important activity ( 1 in the fraction eluted from the silica gel column with hexane , and 1 in the methanol fraction ) , the present study is focussed on the fat-soluble allergens in the hexane fraction . gc-ms analysis revealed that 4 kinds of phosgene ( chlorophenyl ) hydrazones ( pcphs ) were present in the hexane fraction . pcphs prepared in our laboratory showed strong eliciting activities , not only in the guinea pigs sensitized with the extract , but also in a male volunteer sensitized by exposure to a yellow sweater during irritancy testing . phosgene ( 2,5-dichlorophenyl ) hydrazone , which was the main component among the pcphs found in the sweater , sensitized guinea pigs even at the 1 ppm level . from these results , we conclude that pcphs were one of the allergens responsible for the cases . 
predictive factors for hand eczema . factors related to hand eczema were studied . their relative importance as predictors was ranked by multiple logistic regression analysis . questionnaires were sent to 20,000 individuals aged 20-65 years , randomly selected from the population register . those subjects ( 1385 ) considering themselves to have had hand eczema within the previous 12 months were invited to a dermatological examination . it was found that a history of childhood eczema was the most important predictive factor for hand eczema . second was female sex , followed by occupational exposure , a history of asthma and/or hay fever , and a service occupation . a small decrease in risk with advancing age was also found . the difference in the probability of having had eczema in a 1-year period , between individuals having the most important risk factors studied and those having none of them , proved to be for females 48 % compared to 8 % , and for males 34 % compared to 4 % . a history of childhood eczema was found to be more common among young persons , indicating an increase in the prevalence of atopic dermatitis . of those individuals who reported childhood eczema , 27 % reported hand eczema on some occasion during the last 12 months . 
patch and prick test study of 593 healthy subjects . 593 recruits selected by the military health service as being healthy and without a history of present or previous dermatitis , or ocular refraction defects , were patch tested with the girdca ( italian research group on contact and environmental dermatitis ) standard series . of these , 336 were also patch tested with substances used in the processing and dyeing of textiles and prick tested with 8 major allergens . 74 ( 12.5 % ) reacted to 1 or more substances . the most frequent sensitizers were : thimerosal ( 28 cases ) , ammoniated mercury ( 7 cases ) , phenol-formaldehyde resin ( 6 cases ) , parabens , nickel and disperse red 17 ( 4 cases each ) . 113 recruits reacted to 1 or more prick test allergens . we have demonstrated the importance of establishing such reference values in healthy groups for the correct evaluation of data collected from selected groups . 
ammoniated mercury ointment : outdated but still in use . although severe mercury-associated side effects , such as poisoning and high irritant and allergic potential , as well as the weak potency of mercury as an antiseptic or antipsoriatic agent , are well-known , topical mercury preparations are still listed in several pharmacopoeias , including that of the united states , uk and several other european countries . thus , topical mercurials are still in use , even though more effective and less toxic drugs are now available . we report 2 cases of severe allergic reaction to ammoniated mercury and hope , in agreement with the pertinent literature , to contribute to its removal , and that of most other mercurials , from the therapeutic armamentarium . 
occupational dermatoses from epoxy resin compounds . this study comprises 40 patients with skin disorders from current or previous occupational exposure to epoxy resin compounds ( erc ) during 1984-1988 . ercs were the 3rd most common cause ( 32 of 264 cases : 12.1 % ) of currently relevant allergic contact dermatitis : 23 cases from epoxy resins based on the diglycidyl ether of bisphenol a ( dgeba-ers ) , 5 from reactive diluents , 1 from amine hardeners ( deta ) , and 3 from epoxy acrylates . 2 cases ( 0.8 % ) of irritant contact dermatitis were due to ercs . methyl hexahydrophthalic anhydride ( mhhpa , an epoxy hardener ) caused 1 case of contact urticaria . previously relevant occupational allergic contact dermatitis from dgeba-ers was detected in 5 cases . on patch testing , erc allergens gave the following positive reactions : epoxy resin of the standard series in 35 cases ( 4.0 % of 870 tested ) , epoxy reactive diluents in 10 ( 7.1 % of 140 ) , cycloaliphatic epoxy resins in 4 ( 11.1 % of 36 ) , epoxy acrylates in 4 ( 4.5 % of 88 ) , and amine compounds commonly used as epoxy hardeners in 17 . despite extensive patch test series , testing with patients ' own ercs remains important . 
valgus deformities of the feet and characteristics of gait in patients who have rheumatoid arthritis . to investigate the cause of valgus deformity of the hindfoot in patients who have rheumatoid arthritis and to characterize the effects of the deformity on gait , two groups of patients were evaluated clinically , radiographically , and with gait analysis in the laboratory . group 1 consisted of seven patients who had seropositive rheumatoid arthritis and normal alignment of the feet and group 2 , of ten patients who had rheumatoid arthritis and valgus deformity of the hindfoot . in group 2 , the disease was of longer duration and the feet were more painful than in group 1 . there was no evidence of muscular imbalance , equinus contracture , valgus deformity of the tibiotalar joint , or isolated deficiency of the tibialis posterior ( such as weakness , tenosynovitis , or rupture of the tendon ) that could have contributed to the development of the valgus deformity . in the patients who had valgus deformity , quantitated electromyography demonstrated that the intensity and duration of activity of the tibialis posterior was significantly increased , apparently in an effort to support the collapsing longitudinal arch of the foot . gait studies revealed decreases in velocity , stride length , and single-limb-support time , as well as delayed heel-rise in both groups , but the decreases were more marked in the patients who had valgus deformity . the results of this study suggest that valgus deformity of the hindfoot in rheumatoid patients results from exaggerated pronation forces on the weakened and inflamed subtalar joint . these forces are caused by alterations in gait secondary to symmetrical muscular weakness and the effort of the patient to minimize pain in the feet . radiographs also suggested an association between the valgus deformity of the feet and valgus deformity of the knees in patients who have rheumatoid arthritis . 
immunodermatology update : the immunologically mediated vesiculobullous diseases . before a specific diagnosis of an immunologically mediated blistering disease can be made , the clinical and histologic features and the results of direct and indirect immunofluorescence studies ( with use of multiple substrates in some cases ) must be assessed . for both subepidermal and intraepidermal groups of blistering diseases , direct immunofluorescence testing of perilesional tissue is critical for diagnosis . for these conditions , indirect immunofluorescence testing of serum is important for diagnosis and has a role in management of selected diseases . in dermatitis herpetiformis , indirect testing of serum for iga antiendomysial antibodies is useful for both diagnosis and management . indirect testing of serum for igg antibodies to intercellular substance is important for diagnosis and , in conjunction with the clinical findings , can be used as a guide for monitoring disease activity in patients with pemphigus . immunoelectron microscopy , immunoprecipitation , and immunoblotting studies have identified the sites of immune deposits and the specific antigens in most of the immunologically mediated bullous diseases . from a practical standpoint , however , direct and indirect immunofluorescence testing , in conjunction with clinical and histologic evaluations , is a simple , rapid , and relatively inexpensive tool for diagnosis and management . 
melanocytic hyperplasia of the oral mucosa . lesions that exhibit melanocytic hyperplasia are uncommon in the oral mucosa . they are even more rare than the various morphologic types of nevomelanocytic lesions . this article reports the clinicopathologic features of oral lesions diagnosed as lentigo simplex , junctional lentigo ( " jentigo " ) , atypical melanocytic hyperplasia ( melanoma in situ ) , and melanocanthoma . the proper terminology for these lesions is also discussed . 
mycetoma : comparison of mr imaging with ct . magnetic resonance ( mr ) images obtained in 18 patients with pathologically confirmed mycetoma in the body ( n = 4 ) or lower extremity ( n = 14 ) were retrospectively reviewed and compared with computed tomographic ( ct ) scans in 15 patients and surgical findings in 10 . t1-weighted images showed an infiltrating mass ( same signal intensity as muscle ) involving skin , subcutaneous fat , muscles , tendons , and other tissues . on t2-weighted images , the mass and affected structures showed moderately increased signal intensity . bone marrow involvement was detected in seven patients and was best visualized on t1-weighted images . ct showed moderate enhancement of the infiltrative process in all patients . bone changes , seen in nine , included coarse trabeculation , periosteal reaction , endosteal proliferation , and patchy destruction . mr imaging and ct were comparable and correlated well with surgery in showing the extent of soft-tissue involvement . early bone changes ( important for therapy planning for pedal mycetoma ) were seen only at ct . the study showed that mr imaging is sensitive for assessing the extent of mycetoma in the soft tissues . ct should be the method of choice for staging pedal lesions because it can be used to detect early bone involvement . 
focal scleroderma and severe cardiomyopathy . patient report and brief review . a 21-month-old infant presented with simultaneous localized scleroderma and severe cardiomyopathy with heart failure . cardiac abnormalities and serological changes ( positive rheumatoid factor assay , elevated igm and igg levels , and elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate ) reverted to normal with prednisone therapy , and there was substantial , though incomplete , resolution of her skin changes during the same period . to our knowledge , this is the first patient with definite , clinically significant cardiac involvement associated with focal scleroderma . the possibility of internal organ involvement , including cardiac involvement , must be considered with focal scleroderma as well as with progressive systemic sclerosis . 
iron and the liver . iron is essential for life , but iron overload is toxic and potentially fatal . the liver is a major site of iron storage and is particularly susceptible to injury from iron overload , especially when ( as in primary hemochromatosis ) the iron accumulates in hepatocytes . iron can be taken up by the liver in several forms and by several pathways including : ( 1 ) receptor-mediated endocytosis of diferric or monoferric transferrin or ferritin , ( 2 ) reduction and carrier-facilitated internalization of iron from transferrin without internalization of the protein moiety of transferrin , ( 3 ) electrogenic uptake of low molecular weight , non-protein bound forms of iron , and ( 4 ) uptake of heme from heme-albumin , heme-hemopexin , or hemoglobin-haptoglobin complexes . normally , pathway 2 is probably the major one for uptake of iron by hepatocytes . iron is stored in the liver in the cores of ferritin shells and as hemosiderin , an insoluble product derived from iron-rich ferritin . iron in hepatocytes stimulates translation of ferritin mrna and represses transcription of dna for transferrin and transferrin receptors . the major pathologic effects of chronic hepatic iron overload are : ( 1 ) fibrosis and cirrhosis , ( 2 ) porphyria cutanea tarda , and ( 3 ) hepatocellular carcinoma . although precise pathogenetic mechanisms remain unknown , iron probably produces these and other toxic effects by increasing oxidative stress and lysosomal lability . vigorous efforts at diagnosis and treatment of iron overload are essential since the pathologic effects of iron are totally preventable by early vigorous iron removal and prevention of iron re-accumulation . 
substance p-induced cutaneous and bronchial reactions in children with bronchial asthma . we studied substance p-induced cutaneous and bronchial reactions in children with allergic disorders . furthermore , inhibitory effects of lidocaine on these responses elicited by substance p were also studied . in the intradermal test , children with moderate or severe bronchial asthma showed significantly stronger reactions than controls . in bronchial challenge with substance p , children with bronchial asthma showed an increasing fall in fev1 and v50 in proportion to the severity of their asthma . concomitant use of lidocaine significantly inhibited not only substance p-induced intradermal erythema and wheal reactions but air flow limitations . it also inhibited histamine-induced erythema and house dust-induced wheal and erythema reactions . no adverse reactions to lidocaine were observed . these results suggest that substance p might play an important role in cutaneous and bronchial hypersensitivity reactions in humans and that lidocaine has an inhibitory effect on substance p-induced reactions . 
effect of parenterally administered gold therapy on the course of adult rheumatoid arthritis objective : to describe the course of rheumatoid arthritis over 5 years in adults and to evaluate the effect of parenterally administered gold salts on that course . design : a prospective observational study of adults with rheumatoid arthritis . data derived from annual interviews with patients from 1983 to 1988 and from physician surveys in 1983 and 1987 . setting : rheumatology practices in the community . patients : the study began in 1982 with 822 adults who had rheumatoid arthritis and were under the care of rheumatologists . interventions : those selected by rheumatologists in the management of their patients . measurements : information describing sociodemographic and clinical characteristics , course , and therapy was collected from patients and verified by physician reports . functional status , measured by the health assessment questionnaire , and the number of painful joints were used as outcome variables . outcome variables were adjusted for age , sex , disease duration , baseline values of the outcome variable , and the use of four disease-remittive agents other than gold . main results : multivariate repeated-measures analysis of variance showed no change in the course of rheumatoid arthritis over 5 years . the use of parenteral gold for at least 2 consecutive years at the start of the observation period produced , on average , no change in the course over 5 years in the two outcome variables . conclusion : in our study of a community-based population of adults with rheumatoid arthritis who were under the care of community rheumatologists , we found that there was , on average , no statistically significant change in function or number of painful joints between 1983 and 1988 . patients receiving parenteral gold therapy for at least 2 consecutive years did not show a statistically significant difference in outcome when compared with those not receiving such therapy . 
diagnosis of lyme disease based on dermatologic manifestations . lyme disease , or lyme borreliosis , is an infection caused by the spirochete borrelia burgdorferi , which is most commonly transmitted to humans by a tick bite . characterized by early and late phases , lyme disease is a multisystem illness involving the skin , heart , joints , and nervous system . diagnosis is based predominantly on clinical manifestations , the most specific being dermatologic . thus , recognizing the dermatologic manifestations of lyme disease is important for diagnosis and institution of appropriate , effective therapy . approximately 75 % of patients with lyme disease present with the pathognomonic skin lesion erythema migrans , an expanding erythematous lesion . during early infection , secondary erythema migrans lesions or borrelia lymphocytoma may occur . borrelia lymphocytoma commonly presents as an erythematous nodule on the ear lobe or nipple . during late infection , acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans , an erythematous , atrophic plaque unique to lyme disease may appear ; it has been described in about 10 % of patients with lyme disease in europe . fibrotic nodules associated with acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans as well as other sclerotic and atrophic lesions , such as morphea , lichen sclerosus et atrophicus , anetoderma , and atrophoderma of pasini and pierini , have been seen late in the course of lyme disease . in a few cases , other sclerodermatous lesions , such as eosinophilic fasciitis and progressive facial hemiatrophy , have been linked to b. burgdorferi infection . we review the cutaneous lesions associated with lyme disease . 
elemental diet for refractory atopic eczema . a total of 37 children with refractory wide-spread atopic eczema were treated with an antigen avoidance regimen comprising hospitalisation , exclusive feeding with an elemental formula for a median duration of 30 days , and measures to reduce exposure to pet and dust mite antigens at home . after the initial period of food exclusion , food challenges were performed at intervals of seven days , and the patients followed up for at least 12 months . ten of the children ( 27 % ) either failed to respond to the regimen or relapsed within 12 months . improvement in the eczema was seen in 27/37 ( 73 % ) patients , by discharge from hospital their disease severity score had fallen to a median of 27 % of the pretreatment figure , and only 3/27 required topical corticosteroids . there were no clinical or laboratory findings which could be used to predict the outcome . drawbacks to the regimen were prolonged hospitalisation ( median 70 days ) , a fall in body weight and serum albumin concentration , and a risk of anaphylactic shock ( 4/37 cases ) . a strict antigen avoidance regimen may be associated with improvement of atopic eczema where conventional treatments have failed . 
treatment of rheumatoid arthritis with an anti-cd4 monoclonal antibody . the effect of treatment with a monoclonal antibody against the cd4 antigen present on t helper cells was studied in 10 patients with severe intractable rheumatoid arthritis . in an open trial , monoclonal antibody 16h5 was infused at a dosage of 0.3 mg/kg of body weight on 7 consecutive days . studies of the kinetics demonstrated a drastic depletion of cd4 + cells , to as low as 25 cells/microliters , 1 hour after the first infusion . the subsequent recovery of the cd4 + cell numbers 24 hours after infusion did not reach initial levels , and after the full 7-day treatment cycle there was a significant reduction of the number of cd4 + cells ( mean + / - sd 51 + / - 28 % ; p less than 0.02 ) . there was a reduced or even inverse cd4 : cd8 ratio , which generally persisted 3-4 weeks . lymphocyte transformation assays demonstrated significantly reduced reactivity in 5 of the 9 patients who completed the 7-day course , whereas 4 individuals exhibited an unexpected elevation in the t cell response to mitogens and common antigens . parallel laboratory studies showed a significant decrease in the erythrocyte sedimentation rate ( p less than 0.05 ) , rheumatoid factor titer ( p less than 0.04 ) , and total immunoglobulin values ( p less than 0.01 ) , as well as a reduction in c-reactive protein levels , in 7 of the 9 patients . clinically , there was a significant reduction in the ritchie articular index ( p less than 0.05 ) and in the number of swollen joints ( p less than 0.04 ) . adverse effects were urticaria in 2 patients , which led to withdrawal of therapy in 1 of them , and chills with fever , suggestive of a lymphokine release syndrome , in another 2 patients . only low levels of human anti-mouse immunoglobulin antibodies developed ( not exceeding 1.7 mg/liter ) . it was therefore possible to repeat the treatment cycle , achieving still better efficacy , in 4 of the patients ( reductions in the ritchie index and the number of swollen joints p less than 0.02 ) . our findings indicate that treatment with monoclonal antibodies against the cd4 antigen leads to immunomodulation which results in clinical benefits , at least during initial observation periods ( up to 6 months postinfusion ) . however , it remains to be determined whether long-term remission can be induced with this therapeutic approach . the use of immunosuppressive therapies or repeated antibody treatments will have to be considered . 
local infectious complications following large joint replacement in rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with methotrexate versus those not treated with methotrexate . we performed a 10-year retrospective analysis of the frequency of local postoperative infectious complications in methotrexate ( mtx ) - treated rheumatoid arthritis patients who underwent total joint arthroplasty . sixty patients , who had a total of 92 joint arthroplasties , were receiving mtx . a comparison group of 61 patients with a combined total of 110 total joint arthroplasties were not receiving mtx . the 2 groups were compared for the occurrence of local postoperative infectious complications and poor wound healing . eight patients in the mtx group experienced a total of 8 complications ( 8.7 % of procedures ) . in comparison , 5 patients in the non-mtx group experienced a total of 6 complications ( 5.5 % of procedures ) , a difference that was not statistically significant ( chi 2 = 0.816 , p = 0.366 ) . statistical analysis of many other variables revealed none that could be identified as risk factors for postoperative complications . these results suggest that treatment in the perioperative period with weekly low-dose pulse mtx does not increase the risk of local postoperative infectious complications or poor wound healing in rheumatoid arthritis patients who undergo total joint arthroplasty . 
synovial membrane histology and immunopathology in rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis . in vivo effects of antirheumatic drugs . we examined the histologic and immunopathologic features of the synovial membrane of 18 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) and 12 patients with osteoarthritis ( oa ) who had undergone total knee arthroplasty . patients were classified into 5 groups according to therapeutic regimen and disease : ra treated with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs ( nsaids ) , ra treated with nsaids and prednisone , ra treated with nsaids and methotrexate ( mtx ) , oa treated with analgesics , and oa treated with nsaids . there were no significant between-group differences in the percentages or the distribution pattern of the infiltrating t cell subsets ( cd4 , cd8 ) , hla-dr , or interleukin-2 receptor-bearing cells . however , inflammatory indices , which included the thickness of the lining cell layer and the density of the mononuclear cell infiltrate , were significantly higher in the ra patients treated with prednisone and those treated with mtx ( p less than 0.05 ) . similarly , fibrosis was markedly reduced in these 2 groups . the ra patients treated with nsaids alone and the 2 groups of patients with oa demonstrated similar profiles . these data suggest that prednisone and mtx may inhibit the development of fibrosis without altering the subsets of the inflammatory cell population . this observation raises the possibility that the action of these 2 drugs may be partly mediated by the suppression of inflammatory mediators that are responsible for fibroblast activation . 
clinical correlations with serum c1q levels in patients with rheumatoid arthritis . previous studies have suggested that serum c1q levels measured during the first 5 years of rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) may be predictive of the extent of subsequent joint damage . to further evaluate the clinical significance of this marker in ra , levels of c1q were measured by radial immunodiffusion in serum samples from 107 well-characterized patients with ra . mean levels of c1q were higher in patients with a disease duration less than or equal to 5 years ( 173 micrograms/ml ) than in patients with a disease duration greater than 5 years ( 148 micrograms/ml ) ( p = 0.032 ) . serum c1q levels were correlated with total joint counts and activities of daily living scores , but no correlation was observed with erythrocyte sedimentation rates or with radiographic scores . the results suggest that c1q may be a useful early marker of disease activity in patients with ra . 
hla-d region antigens in patients with rheumatoid arthritis . we studied the distribution of hla-d region antigens in 2 groups of rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) patients : those with mild , nonprogressive disease , and those with severe disease . the results demonstrate that dr4 was significantly increased in both ra patient populations . the frequencies of dr1 and dr4-associated dqw7 alleles , however , were different in these 2 groups of patients . dr1 was significantly increased only in patients with mild ra , and dr4-associated dqw7 was significantly increased only in patients with severe disease . the results of the present study , together with previous data from our laboratory and from other investigators on the incidence of hla-d region antigens in ra , suggest that both dr and dq ( a and b ) genes may be important in conferring susceptibility to ra ; dr in the mild forms of the disease , and dq in severe ra . 
the effect of nifedipine on myocardial perfusion and metabolism in systemic sclerosis . a positron emission tomographic study . we assessed the effect of nifedipine on myocardial perfusion and metabolism in 9 patients with systemic sclerosis , using positron emission tomography with a perfusion tracer ( potassium-38 ) and a metabolic tracer ( 18f-fluorodeoxyglucose [ 18fdg ] ) . nifedipine , 20 mg 3 times daily for 1 week , induced a significant increase in 38k myocardial uptake , a significant decrease in 18fdg myocardial uptake , and a significant increase in the myocardial 38k : 18fdg ratio . these results indicate that the increase in myocardial perfusion is associated with modifications in myocardial energy metabolism , which probably result from a beneficial anti-ischemic effect of nifedipine in patients with systemic sclerosis . 
a case of cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis . ii : the sterol content of a cataractous lens . the cholestanol content of a cataractous lens nucleus from a patient with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis ( ctx ) was quantified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and found to be 0.27 micrograms per mg freeze-dried lens tissue . the cholestanol-cholesterol ratio of 1.7 % in the lens nucleus was similar to that in the serum of the ctx patient . the cholestanol content and cholestanol-cholesterol ratio in the ctx lens were approximately four-fold and six-fold greater respectively than the mean levels found in three senile cataractous lens nuclei analysed simultaneously for comparative purposes . 
histology of the lens in the weill-marchesani syndrome . the weill-marchesani syndrome is a rare systemic connective tissue disease characterised by small stature , brachydactyly , ectopia lentis , and spherophakia . three siblings with typical manifestations of this syndrome were reported . the ophthalmological findings in all these cases were spherophakia , severe myopia , a shallow anterior chamber , and narrow angle glaucoma . two cases underwent laser iridotomy and drug treatment . in the third case the lens was removed from the eye because of injury , and this lens was examined by light and electron microscopy . 
flecked retina associated with ring 17 chromosome . we report the case of a mentally retarded male with a ring 17 chromosome who had subretinal drusen-like deposits in each eye . this is the second report of flecked retina in a patient with ring 17 chromosome , suggesting that there may be a causal relationship between abnormalities of chromosome 17 and retinal pigment epithelial or photoreceptor dysfunction . 
clinical screening for collagen defects in connective tissue diseases . the defects in type i collagen structure or synthesis that produce all four types of osteogenesis imperfecta ( oi ) and ehlers-danlos syndrome ( eds ) type vii and the defects in type iii collagen structure in eds type iv can be detected by analysis of collagens produced by fibroblastic cells cultured from affected individuals . quantitative defects in synthesis of type i collagen are seen in oi type i and qualitative defects of type i collagen characterize oi type ii , oi type iii , and oi type iv and eds type vii . eds type iv results from qualitative type iii collagen defects . all of the disorders are inherited typically in an autosomal dominant fashion so that recurrence among offspring of normal parents usually results from germline mosaicism for the mutation in one parent . analysis of type i and type iii collagen synthesized by cultured chorionic villus cells is used for prenatal diagnosis of these disorders . 
acute porphyria presenting with hyperamylasemia . an elevation of serum amylase and lipase has not been reported previously to occur with porphyria . in this report , we describe a patient who presented with the clinical and laboratory picture of pancreatitis : elevated amylase , lipase , amylase-creatinine clearance ratio , and with abdominal pain . only after extensive evaluation , was the patient found to have porphyria . on two separate occasions , with hematin therapy , her serum amylase decreased , as did her clinical symptoms of porphyria and her urinary quantitative porphyrins . this suggests an association between elevation of the serum amylase and lipase with acute porphyria . moreover , this association can lead to delay in establishing the diagnosis of acute porphyria . 
bad advice ; bad burn : a new problem in burn prevention . deep partial-thickness burns had been inflicted on the perineal area of an infant who was recently treated in our burn center . the burns were a result of advice to the patient 's mother by a pediatrician . the doctor told her to use a hair dryer to prevent diaper rash . we surveyed pediatricians , well-baby clinics , and pediatric nurse practitioners in our area and found that approximately half of them advised the use of hair dryers to treat or prevent diaper rash . we tested four widely available hand-held hair dryers to determine potential for inflicting burn injury . all of the dryers are capable of delivering air heated to at least 53 degrees c after 2 minutes of use . we believe that warnings against the use of hair dryers for perineal hygiene should be included in burn prevention programs . 
serum erythropoietin levels in the anaemia of chronic disorders . serum erythropoietin ( s-epo ) levels were measured in 50 patients with anaemia of chronic disorders ( acd ) , classified into three groups according to their aetiology : inflammatory ( n = 20 ) , infectious ( n = 15 ) and neoplastic ( n = 15 ) . the inflammatory group showed a higher mean s-epo level ( mean value + / - sem , 69 + / - 11 mu ml-1 ) than the neoplastic ( 43 + / - 5 mu ml-1 ; p less than 0.05 ) and infectious groups ( 27 + / - 4 mu ml-1 ; p less than 0.01 ) . the s-epo level in the inflammatory group also differed from that of 32 healthy controls ( 36 + / - 3 mu ml-1 ; p less than 0.05 ) . fourteen patients with added iron deficiency ( 12 subjects from the inflammatory group ) showed the highest s-epo concentration ( 72 + / - 17 mu ml-1 ) . conversely , s-epo levels were lower in febrile subjects ( 12 patients with infection and five with malignancy ) than in non-febrile patients ( 28 + / - 4 mu ml-1 vs. 55 + / - 7 mu ml-1 ; p less than 0.01 ) . in the infectious group , the logarithm of s-epo correlated directly with the haemoglobin and haematocrit values . we conclude that differences in s-epo concentration in acd may be further related to the patient 's iron stores and temperature . a decrease in epo production may contribute to the pathogenesis of acd secondary to infection . 
a double-blind gastroscopic evaluation of the effects of etodolac and naproxen on the gastrointestinal mucosa of rheumatic patients . the aim of this clinical , endoscopical study was to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy and the gastric tolerability of etodolac , a new anti-inflammatory , non-steroidal drug , compared with naproxen . the study was conducted on 48 patients suffering from rheumatoid arthritis . 44 of whom completed the trial . after an initial oesophagogastroduodenoscopy to exclude the presence of gastric mucosal lesions , patients were randomly allocated to double-blind treatment with either etodolac 200 mg b.i.d. or naproxen 500 mg b.i.d. for a period of 4 weeks . endoscopic control followed this treatment period . both drugs proved effective in relieving clinical symptoms , without a statistically significant difference . gastric mucosal lesions were observed in 15 % of etodolac-treated patients and in 46 % of patients treated with naproxen ( p less than 0.05 ) ( 95 % ci 0.01-0 .60 ) . painful dyspepsia was observed in 15 % of patients treated with etodolac vs. 38 % of patients on naproxen therapy . this study demonstrates that etodolac is at least as active as naproxen in relieving rheumatic symptoms , and its administration results in a significantly lower degree of gastric damage . 
selective in vivo removal of rheumatoid factor by an extracorporeal treatment device in rheumatoid arthritis patients a prospective phase ii trial was conducted to assess the feasibility , tolerance , and efficacy of a device designed for selective removal of rheumatoid factor from the plasma of rheumatoid arthritis patients . the device contained terpolymer hydrogel-coated plates with chemically attached , aggregated human immunoglobulin g , and it operated as an immunoaffinity column . sixty-one patients aged 25 to 73 underwent weekly plasmapheresis treatments ( the primary therapy phase ) . during the trial , patients continued current rheumatoid arthritis medications without dose adjustments . all patients received two to six treatments ( primary therapy ) . responding patients were eligible to continue apheresis treatment every 2 to 6 weeks ( maintenance therapy ) . no serious , untoward side effects were noted in the course of this study ; of 640 treatments , only 2 ( in different patients ) were aborted , one because of complaints of dizziness and angioedema and the other because of chest tightness and shortness of breath . except for a significant ( p less than 0.05 ) decrease in serum iron , no significant changes in complete blood count , serum electrolytes , renal and hepatic function tests , or serum c3 and c4 were noted . although the trial was not designed to determine clinical efficacy , patients noted less morning stiffness , longer time to onset of fatigue , and improved global pain assessment ( p less than 0.004 ) ; significant objective improvements were noted in joint pain , tenderness , swelling , and the number of affected joints ( p less than 0.001 ) . one-half of the treated patients had at least a 50 percent improvement in objective measures of antirheumatic activity . 
computed tomography and ultrasonography of the adrenal glands in paracoccidioidomycosis . comparison with cortisol and aldosterone responses to acth stimulation . fifteen patients with proven disseminated paracoccidioidomycosis ( pcm ) had computed tomography ( ct ) and ultrasonography ( us ) performed to evaluate the form , shape , density and size of their adrenal glands . plasma and urinary cortisol were determined and adrenal reserve assessed by measuring the cortisol and aldosterone responses to synthetic acth . the adrenal ct showed unilateral lesions in two cases and bilateral in another four . the us study showed more frequent alterations , unilateral in seven and bilateral in three subjects . combining both methods increased the sensitivity to 85 % of the cases . all patients had normal plasma cortisol concentrations and normal or increased urinary cortisol excretion . plasma aldosterone concentration was also normal except in one patient with hypokalemia . seven patients showed diminished cortisol responses , five had subnormal aldosterone responses and in five plasma aldosterone concentration increased more than normally after stimulation by acth . there was an incidence of limited adrenal reserve in 53 % of the patients on acth stimulation . no correlation was evident between the disorders in adrenal steroid responses to acth and changes in morphology revealed by ct and/or us . 
propofol as an i.v. anaesthetic induction agent in variegate porphyria . the choice of an i.v. anaesthetic induction poses problems for the anaesthetist confronted with a patient with one of the acute porphyrias . we undertook a prospective clinical trial in 13 variegate porphyric subjects using propofol as an anaesthetic induction agent . urinary porphyrin precursors and porphyrins were measured before operation and 1-5 days after operation . stool and plasma porphyrin concentrations were measured over the same period . comparison of these data in the porphyric patients and in 21 control subjects over the trial period revealed no significant change in porphyrin or porphyrin precursor output after operation . urinary porphyrin precursor concentrations did not exceed the limits established for variegate porphyric patients in remission , and there were no changes in the stool and plasma porphyrin profiles or any symptoms of an acute porphyric attack . we conclude that propofol did not appear to be porphyrinogenic when used for the induction of anaesthesia in 13 patients with variegate porphyria . 
pruritus in pregnancy . diagnosis of the cause of pruritus in a pregnant patient should be approached systematically , beginning with a detailed history ( especially drug exposure ) and physical examination . systemic diseases must be excluded . liver function tests and hepatitis screen are in order if symptoms suggest liver dysfunction . stool examination for ova and parasites may be included when there is no skin lesion . biopsy of an obvious skin lesion or a specific radioimmunoassay may be helpful . a dermatologic consultation is warranted when the diagnosis is in doubt and skin lesions are present . an accurate diagnosis is imperative since certain dermatologic disorders may increase maternal and fetal morbidity and even mortality . 
the new genetics and its relevance to orthopedics . the recent advances in genetics have practical importance for patients with orthopedic problems . specific genes are being isolated , mapped to chromosomes , and defined . surgical specimens can be used for genetic studies to define specific genetic abnormalities . making specific genetic diagnoses is important for appropriate care of the patient and the family . 
interphase cytogenetics using biotin and digoxigenin labelled probes : iii . increased sensitivity and flexibility for detecting hpv in cervical biopsy specimens and cell lines . a monoclonal antibody to digoxin enabled sandwich techniques to be used for the detection of hybridised digoxigenin labelled probes in cultured cells and paraffin wax sections . this system has greater flexibility than alkaline phosphatase conjugated polyclonal antidigoxigenin antibody and permits the use of alternative detector enzymes , such as horseradish peroxidase and fluorescence labels . the apaap detection system that does not require the use of biotin can also be used in situations where endogenous biotin is a problem . the low level of background staining combined with precise substrate deposition of the amplified peroxidase system gives higher sensitivity and resolution . this permits localisation of closely adjacent chromosomal loci in interphase nuclei . the most sensitive peroxidase based digoxigenin detection system visualises two and a half to 12 copies of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) per nucleus . this system is also suitable for the analysis of low copy number hpv infection of cervical tissues . 
familial hypobetalipoproteinaemia complicated by cerebellar ataxia and steatocystoma multiplex . a 55-year-old man with cerebellar ataxia and steatocystoma multiplex was found to have reduced serum concentrations of total cholesterol , betalipoprotein and apolipoprotein b. computed tomography revealed atrophy of the cerebellum and brain stem . of the six family members examined , four had hypobetalipoproteinaemia , and one had mild ataxia . similar skin lesions were noted in five male relatives . this case represents a rare combination of familial hypobetalipoproteinaemia , cerebellar ataxia and steatocystoma multiplex . 
winning the battle , losing the war ? another editorial about rheumatoid arthritis . major advances in the therapy of ra will likely require future scientific breakthroughs in the understanding of pathophysiology . that is not to suggest that clinical investigations should be put on hold while the entire focus of research shifts to the laboratory bench . clinical studies of very early ra , including early treatment interventions , would appear to be of major importance . however , better characterization of the early clinical course and identification of pathologic markers of progressive disease are needed before formal randomized treatment studies of early disease can be initiated . the entire role of aggressive management , particularly with combination chemotherapy , at any stage of ra is in desperate need of answers . in clinical practice it would appear that combination chemotherapy is widely used , often as a last resort in treatment resistant patients who have failed conventional therapies . the published clinical studies would seem to support , but certainly not prove , a valuable potential role for combination chemotherapy in this setting . moreover , the studies seem to indicate some increased risk of drug toxicities , the limitations of which are not readily apparent for most combinations . based on the successes observed in these patients that are very difficult to treat , the possibility of a more fundamental role of combination chemotherapy in treatment of the disease has been advocated . these questions need to be resolved by well designed , randomized controlled trials . there is an urgent need to do the trials soon before combination chemotherapy gains an even stronger foothold in therapy . 
seronegative rheumatoid arthritis : a clinical study with hla typing . we examined both clinically and by determining hla-a , - b , - c and - dr antigens 50 patients thought to have seronegative erosive polyarticular rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) in finland and the ussr . all the patients fulfilled at least 4 of the 1987 ara criteria for ra . according to hla typing and clinical findings , of which a part was collected by followup , the patients fell into 5 groups : hla-b27 related diseases , putative psoriatic arthritis , putative juvenile chronic polyarthritis , and seropositive and seronegative ra . our results indicate that most of the patients with seronegative ra had some other disease . in the remaining cases the presence of rheumatoid factors had not been examined adequately , especially at the early phase of disease . the classification of erosive seronegative polyarticular patients is discussed . 
phenotypic markers of lymphocyte and mononuclear phagocyte activation within rheumatoid nodules . we investigated rheumatoid subcutaneous nodules using monoclonal antibodies recognizing functional determinants on mononuclear phagocytes ( mph ) and lymphocytes . mph at the center of rheumatoid nodules showed strong expression of the leukocyte intergrins cr3 and p150 ,95 which would be consistent with the presence of a central chemotactic stimulus . mph expression of fcr1 , a gamma interferon regulated molecule , was decreased in 5/13 cases despite strong expression of mhc class ii . there was a variable unstructured infiltrate of t lymphocytes , a majority of which were cd8 positive . lymphocytes showed increased mhc class ii expression but interleukin 2 receptor expression was low . we discerned no relationship between the number , distribution or phenotype of the t cell infiltrate and the phenotype of the predominant mph population . 
administration of folinic acid after low dose methotrexate in patients with rheumatoid arthritis . folinic acid ( leucovorin ) supplementation has been suggested as a possible means of treating the short term side effects that occur with low dose methotrexate ( mtx ) . however , it has not been established whether leucovorin will abrogate the antiarthritic effect of mtx . we entered 20 patients with rheumatoid arthritis treated with mtx into a 48 week randomized , double blind , crossover trial of folinic acid vs placebo . the dose of folinic acid was equal to the dose of mtx and it was given orally 4 h following the single , weekly mtx administration . under these conditions , leucovorin did not decrease the therapeutic effect of mtx . while the incidence of stomatitis and gastrointestinal toxicity were lower during leucovorin treatment , our study lacked sufficient power to establish a statistically significant difference . 
major clinical diagnoses found among patients with raynaud phenomenon from the general population . this study of 62 individuals with raynaud phenomenon ( rp ) drawn from the general population of south carolina shows a profile of associated diseases that is different from the one reported from hospital based studies . we found that connective tissue diseases affect a much smaller fraction of patients with rp than previously reported . compared to rp negative controls , our rp positive group was found to suffer more frequently from a variety of diseases , both rp related and not rp related . 
hypophospholipasemia a2 in systemic sclerosis . phospholipase a2 ( pla2 ) , total and pancreatic , were quantitated in 91 sera of patients with systemic sclerosis ( ssc ) . the mean total pla2 of 216 + / - 161 u/ml ( sd ) was significantly lower ( p less than 0.001 ) than in controls ( 317 + / - 128 u/ml ) . in 55 of 91 patients ( 60 % ) pla2 was more than 1 sd and in 6 ( 7 % ) more than 2 sd below the normal mean . serum pancreatic pla2 was also significantly lower in ssc . the prevalence of low serum total pla2 was significantly greater ( p less than 0.001 ) than in healthy adults , or in patients with rheumatoid arthritis , systemic lupus erythematosus or vasculitis . repeat assays of pla2 activity in 10 patients with ssc documented persistence of low pla2 . among 76 patients with ssc with complete clinical and laboratory assessment , there were 48 with low and 28 with normal ( or slightly elevated ) pla2 . these 2 groups showed no differences in disease manifestation or therapy . the group with low serum pla2 had lower erythrocyte sedimentation rates ( p less than 0.0005 ) and lower neutrophil ( p less than 0.05 ) and monocyte counts ( p less than 0.025 ) in the peripheral blood . the finding of low serum pla2 activity adds to the spectrum of arachidonic acid pathway abnormalities associated with ssc , and may in part be related to the paucity of inflammatory changes observed in this disease . 
fibromyalgia in human immunodeficiency virus infection . tenderness was assessed by point count and by scored palpation in 51 patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection as well as 51 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) and 50 patients with psoriatic arthritis ( psa ) . fifteen of 51 ( 29 % ) patients with hiv infection met criteria for fibromyalgia , based on the presence of 10 tender ( of 14 ) " fibrositic " points . similar results were observed among patients with psa ( 24 % ) . the prevalence of fibromyalgia was higher among patients with ra ( 57 % ) . patients with hiv and psa were less tender than patients with ra . fibromyalgia in patients with hiv was significantly associated with myalgia and arthralgia , but not with age , duration of hiv infection , stage of hiv disease , or zidovudine therapy . 
dapsone is an effective therapy for the skin lesions of subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus and urticarial vasculitis in a patient with c2 deficiency . the deficiency of second component of complement ( c2d ) is the most common hereditary complement deficiency . patients with c2 deficiency are frequently associated with an auto-immune disease process , in particular , systemic lupus erythematosus ( le ) - like syndrome and/or vasculitic syndrome or bacterial infections . c2d has been associated with the le subset of subacute cutaneous le ( scle ) , the presence of anti-ro ( ssa ) antibodies , and the human leukocyte antigen ( hla ) types a10 , b18 , dr2 . we describe the clinical , serologic and immunogenetic data in a patient with manifestations of sjogren 's syndrome who developed urticarial vasculitis and photosensitive annular scle which were effectively treated with oral dapsone . our case illustrates the dynamic nature of le . 
purulent pericarditis and cardiac tamponade caused by nocardia asteroides in mixed connective tissue disease . pericardial nocardiosis is extremely rare , but may affect especially immunocompromised hosts . we describe the first reported case of purulent pericarditis with cardiac tamponade as the initial presentation of systemic nocardiosis in a patient with mixed connective tissue disease . our case emphasizes the importance of identifying infectious causes of pericarditis in patients with connective tissue diseases . longterm survival was achieved with a combined medical and surgical approach . 
septic olecranon bursitis caused by neisseria sicca . a man with rheumatoid arthritis developed a septic olecranon bursitis due to neisseria sicca . this case confirms the potential pathogenicity of neisseria sicca and emphasizes that positive cultures for this organism should not be readily dismissed . 
lymphoma presenting as a popliteal mass in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis . a patient with hla-b27 and rheumatoid factor positive rheumatoid arthritis presented with a painless swelling in his popliteal fossa . clinical features were atypical for a baker 's cyst , and subsequent investigation showed this lesion to be a primary malignant lymphoma . 
oral lichen planus : the clinical , historical , and therapeutic features of 100 cases lichen planus is a chronic inflammatory epidermal and mucosal disease , the cause of which is poorly understood . we reviewed the clinical and historic features of 100 patients referred to our clinic for diagnosis and management of lichen planus . the age , gender , chief complaint , duration of the chief complaint , medical history , medications , and clinical findings were recorded . past therapeutic modalities were reviewed . of therapeutic significance , 25 patients with oral lichen planus had a secondary oral candidiasis . management of symptomatic lichen planus with topical and systemic steroid is discussed . the pharmacology of topical and systemic steroid usage and the rationale for treatment are discussed . 
candidal infection in oral lichen planus . the prevalence of candidal infection in lichen planus ( lp ) and its possible association with ulceration were independently examined in two archived series of 108 and 77 cases derived from two separate populations . to ensure that similar material was being compared , each case was histopathologically reassessed and confirmed as lp or reclassified as nonspecific lichenoid stomatitis ( nsls ) , lichenoid dysplasia ( ld ) , or other ( o ) . three further sections , cut at 25 microns intervals , were stained with periodic acid-schiff reagent for the identification of intraepithelial candidal pseudohyphae . as control specimens , 61 normal and 59 hyperkeratotic mucosal samples were similarly processed and examined . candidal infection was found in 17.4 % and 16.4 % of ulcerated and nonulcerated lp cases , respectively , and in 40.0 % and 16.7 % of ulcerated and nonulcerated nsls cases , respectively . one case of ld was infected . each control series contained one infected case . the results indicate that candidal infection occurs more readily in lp and nsls , with no apparent association with ulceration in lp . the comparatively marked increase in the infection prevalence of ulcerated nsls can not be statistically confirmed , and its significance remains uncertain . 
grinspan 's syndrome : a drug-induced phenomenon ? three cases of apparently drug-induced grinspan 's syndrome involving the triad of oral lichen planus , diabetes mellitus , and hypertension are reported . because drug therapy for diabetes mellitus and hypertension is capable of producing lichenoid reactions of the oral mucosa , the question arises as to whether grinspan 's syndrome is an iatrogenically induced syndrome . 
tissue expansion in the treatment of pressure ulcers . the authors report their experience using skin expanders in 11 patients with severe bed sores . the expanders , with different volumes , from 250 to 1000 cc , were generally overfilled using the cutaneous tonometer . in fact , with the information revealed by this apparatus on the skin in expansion , the authors were able to reduce the filling intervals without risking ulceration . in their experience , the results obtained were satisfactory : all patients treated achieved surgical recovery . the authors see a wide future for skin-expander use in pressure-ulcer treatment . they have a working hypothesis about using expanders to progressively advance sensitive skin in areas subject to ulceration . this hypothesis is based on the possibility of reexpanding the same flap several times , as has been seen in the treatment of other types of pathology . 
free-tissue transfers for limb salvage utilizing in situ saphenous vein bypass conduit as the inflow . using vein grafts to bypass sclerotic and occluded arterial segments is a well-established technique in vascular surgery . for infrapopliteal bypass , autogenous veins have better patency rates than synthetic grafts . although not resolved , in situ bypasses seem to be better than reversed bypasses , especially for " far away " segments . although the etiology is not understood , it is a well-known clinical finding that sclerosis affects arteries more than the veins and , as a whole , is more advanced in lower extremities compared with the trunk and upper extremities . our experience with eight patients in whom critical soft-tissue defects were covered with free-tissue transfers in severely compromised lower extremities utilizing the in situ saphenous vein bypass as the inflow is presented . simultaneous bypass and free-tissue transfers were performed in seven and delayed free-tissue transfer was done in one . follow-up ranged from 6 months to 3 years . to date , two patients underwent amputations . five patients are able to maintain bipedal ambulation . one patient is wheelchair-bound with intact lower extremities . in well-selected patients , this procedure may offer an alternative treatment to amputation . however , because of the complexity of these combined procedures , we strongly urge careful patient selection . 
ehlers-danlos syndrome type iv : diagnosis and therapy of associated bowel perforation . ehlers-danlos syndrome type iv is a heritable disease of type iii collagen metabolism . this diagnosis is suspected in a patient with a combination of clinical manifestations and family history , but it is confirmed only by culture of the patient 's skin fibroblasts and demonstration of a defect in type iii collagen metabolism . the disease may rarely present with spontaneous colonic perforation , a complication traditionally treated by primary closure of the perforated segment and creation of an end colostomy . attempts at bowel reanastomosis have often resulted in repeated colon perforations . we present the first patient with ehlers-danlos type iv syndrome to develop a colon perforation proximal to an end colostomy , and discuss the surgical strategy to prevent recurrences of this and other postoperative complications associated with the syndrome . 
characterization of a large deletion associated with a polymorphic block of repeated dinucleotides in the type iii procollagen gene ( col3a1 ) of a patient with ehlers-danlos syndrome type iv . ehlers-danlos syndrome type iv ( eds iv ) is an autosomal dominant condition characterized by extreme fragility of skin , blood vessels , intestine , gravid uterus , and lungs . the phenotype is accounted for by mutations affecting the integrity and/or synthesis of the precursor procollagen molecules of type iii collagen . in this article , we report the elucidation of the molecular defect in an eds iv patient whose type iii collagen was previously found to be structurally abnormal . we utilized pcr in a two-step process involving first the localization of the mutation in the mrna and then the characterization of the defect in the gene . the results established the patient 's heterozygosity for a genomic deletion of about 7.5 kb which eliminates 1,026 nucleotides of coding sequences in the message . the mutation arose as a result of an exon-to-intron recombination . the deleted segment extends from the 13th nucleotide of exon 9 to within a dna sequence of intron 24 , which is composed of a series of dinucleotide repeats . using pcr , we tested the polymorphic nature of this dna element on several unrelated individuals . analysis of amplified genomic products of 45 chromosomes recognized at least four distinct allelic forms that display frequencies ranging from 5 % to 61 % . mendelian segregation of three of the four alleles was established by the same method in a 3-generation family . 
outcomes of pregnancies among women and partners of men with a history of exposure to methoxsalen photochemotherapy ( puva ) for the treatment of psoriasis . because oral methoxsalen and uv-a radiation ( puva ) therapy is mutagenic , concern exists about the potential for teratogenic effects resulting from the use of this therapy at the time of conception and during pregnancy . after 12.8 years of prospective study , we documented the pregnancy outcomes among 1380 patients ( 892 men and 488 women ) who received puva treatments . ninety-four men reported 167 pregnancies in their partners , and 93 women reported 159 pregnancies . for 34 % of pregnancies among partners of male patients , the man received puva therapy near the time of conception . nineteen percent of female patients reported exposure to puva at the time of conception or during pregnancy . induced and spontaneous abortions were reported as the outcome of pregnancy more often by female than by male patients ( 12 % vs 30 % ) . two congenital malformations and two stillbirths occurred , an incidence not significantly different from that expected for the general population . although the power of our study to detect an increase in the risk of specific defects is limited , our data show no evidence to suggest that puva is a potent teratogen . still , because puva is mutagenic , we believe it prudent for patients to avoid puva treatment during pregnancy whenever practical . 
efficiency of opaque photoprotective agents in the visible light range . " opaque " physical sunscreens are important for photoprotection of individuals with visible light and uv-a photosensitivity such as those with porphyria , drug photoallergy , and polymorphous light eruption . diffuse spectral transmittance of various thicknesses of opaque sunscreen formulations were measured from 350 - to 800-nm range using a spectrophotometer equipped with an integrating sphere . transmission through 20 % zinc oxide paste was high and decreased minimally despite large increases in the sunscreen layer thickness . adding a visible light absorber such as iron oxide to scattering sunscreens , however , substantially lowered transmittance below that predicted by the product of the transmittances for each component alone . opaque sunscreens protected against hematoporphyrin derivative photosensitization of albino guinea pig skin ; these results were quantitatively consistent with the in vitro findings . poor photoprotection against visible light is obtained with white paste sunscreens , even if thick layers are applied . the addition of pigments to such sunscreens , however , greatly enhances photoprotection and cosmetic acceptability . 
childhood bullous pemphigoid . clinical and immunologic features , treatment , and prognosis . a 2 1/2 - month-old female infant presented with multiple tense bullae on the hands and feet . analysis of biopsy specimens confirmed our clinical impression of childhood bullous pemphigoid . confirmatory data included type iv collagen mapping of the basement membrane zone , a readily available technique that helps distinguish childhood bullous pemphigoid from childhood epidermolysis bullosa acquisita . to our knowledge , our patient is the youngest described with childhood bullous pemphigoid , and we use this opportunity to review the literature and examine the clinical and immunologic features , treatment , and prognosis of this rare childhood immunobullous disorder . 
coexistence of pemphigus foliaceus and bullous pemphigoid . demonstration of autoantibodies that bind to both the pemphigus foliaceus antigen complex and the bullous pemphigoid antigen . pemphigus and bullous pemphigoid are autoimmune blistering diseases of the skin characterized by circulating autoantibodies directed against the keratinocyte cell surface and the epidermal basement membrane zone , respectively . the coexistence of pemphigus and bullous pemphigoid is very uncommon . we describe a patient with pemphigus foliaceus who later developed bullous pemphigoid and show , by means of immunoprecipitation studies utilizing both cultured keratinocytes and suction blister epidermis , that our patient had circulating autoantibodies directed against both the pemphigus foliaceus antigen complex and the bullous pemphigoid antigen . this report is the first to demonstrate the coexistence of pemphigus foliaceus and bullous pemphigoid at the molecular level . 
acquired epidermolysis bullosa with the clinical feature of brunsting-perry cicatricial bullous pemphigoid . a 56-year-old woman with the typical clinical feature of cicatricial bullous pemphigoid of the brunsting-perry type was studied . histologic examination of a lesion skin biopsy specimen demonstrated a subepidermal blister . direct immunofluorescence microscopy revealed linear deposits of igg , igm , and c3 located on both the roof and the floor of the blister . immunofluorescence antigen mapping using cryostat sections of a spontaneous blister and antisera against defined basement membrane components localized the bullous pemphigoid antigen and type iv collagen in the roof of the blister . this dermal type of blister formation was confirmed by electron microscopy , which showed the cleavage level below the lamina densa . in direct immunoelectron microscopy , granular deposits of c3 and igg were found attached to and just beneath the lamina densa in a pattern identical to the distribution of anchoring fibrils . these findings are diagnostic of acquired epidermolysis bullosa , a blistering disease that has much more clinical heterogeneity than previously suggested . 
cytomegalovirus diaper dermatitis . cytomegalovirus inclusions have been reported in perineal ulcers from immunosuppressed adults . the importance of this finding is unknown . we report the first pediatric case of cutaneous cytomegalovirus infection in an infant with congenital human immunodeficiency virus infection , presenting as a diaper dermatitis . cytomegalovirus was cultured from the skin biopsy specimen , and characteristic inclusions were seen on hematoxylin-eosin-stained sections . results of this biopsy specimen analysis prompted further investigation revealing disseminated cytomegalovirus infection , including retinitis . aggressive pursuit of a pathogen in common conditions such as diaper dermatitis is strongly recommended in immunosuppressed pediatric patients . 
management of aortic insufficiency in chronic aortic dissection . from january 1980 to december 1988 , 44 patients with chronic aortic dissection and aortic insufficiency underwent operation . this group of patients was analyzed to evaluate the outcome of those in whom the aortic valve was preserved compared with those having valve replacement . the overall preoperative characteristics of the two groups were similar except for the incidence of marfan 's syndrome . valve replacement was the elected procedure in patients with valve degeneration or annuloaortic ectasia . in patients with leaflet prolapse with or without an enlarged annulus , a plastic procedure was used . in 48 % of the patients , it was possible to preserve the valve . there were five hospital deaths ( 11 % ) : three were due to low-output syndrome , one was due to bleeding , and one was due to neurological complications . there were two late deaths ( 5 % ) . follow-up of the 37 surviving patients ranged from 2 to 108 months ( mean follow-up , 18 months ) . seventy-eight percent of the survivors were in functional class i and the others were in class ii . two patients in whom the aortic valve was preserved had mild aortic insufficiency . three patients with bioprostheses underwent reoperation because of prosthetic valve dysfunction . one patient who had aortoplasty and an aortic valve plastic procedure was seen with redissection and aortic insufficiency after 60 months and was reoperated on using the bentall technique . the actuarial survival curves showed that patients who underwent valvoplasty had higher , but not significantly higher , survival rates than the valve replacement patients . 
revised clinical and laboratory criteria for subtypes of inherited epidermolysis bullosa . a consensus report by the subcommittee on diagnosis and classification of the national epidermolysis bullosa registry . inherited epidermolysis bullosa encompasses a number of diseases , with the common finding of blister formation after minor mechanical trauma to the skin . in some forms significant , if not eventually fatal , extracutaneous disease activity may occur . in recent years application of newer technologies has contributed substantially to an overall understanding of this collection of inherited diseases . concurrently , many new phenotypes have been recognized , in part the result of ongoing prospective patient registries in the united states and abroad . unfortunately , this has resulted in a massive literature that may appear to be confounded by seemingly excessive or arbitrary subdivision of epidermolysis bullosa variants . with these concerns in mind a subcommittee was established by the national epidermolysis bullosa registry to summarize the current literature and to make recommendations as to the best clinical and laboratory criteria for the practical diagnosis and subclassification of patients with inherited epidermolysis bullosa . 
infantile acute hemorrhagic edema of the skin : study of ten cases . infantile acute hemorrhagic edema of the skin is not included as a separate entity in the current english-language literature as it is in continental europe . therefore we have attempted to clarify the nosologic position of acute hemorrhagic edema among cutaneous vasculitides in children , on the basis of our experience in 10 cases . our study confirms that acute hemorrhagic edema affects infants between 4 and 24 months of age . the two main features are an ecchymotic purpura , often in a cockade pattern , and an inflammatory edema of the limbs and face . visceral involvement is uncommon . spontaneous and complete resolution occurs within 1 to 3 weeks ; one to four attacks may occur . histopathologic examination demonstrates a leukocytoclastic vasculitis . perivascular iga deposits can occasionally be found . besides typical acute hemorrhagic edema , some cases in 2 - to 4-year-old children appear to overlap with schonlein-henoch purpura . we suggest that typical acute hemorrhagic edema should be regarded as a separate clinical entity . this allows an appropriate prognosis to be made for this generally benign disease of infants . 
identification of herpes simplex virus dna in lesions of erythema multiforme by the polymerase chain reaction . an association between erythema multiforme and herpes simplex virus infection has been supported by clinical studies and by the detection by immunofluorescence of herpes viral antigen in sera and skin biopsy specimens of patients with erythema multiforme . in rare cases , the virus has also been isolated in cultures of skin biopsy specimens of erythema multiforme . to investigate further the association between erythema multiforme and herpes simplex virus , we used the polymerase chain reaction for herpes simplex virus to examine skin lesions from patients with erythema multiforme . in this study herpes simplex virus dna was detected in 11 of 31 biopsy specimens of erythema multiforme ; six additional cases showed equivocal amplification results , which is suggestive of low amounts of viral dna . seven skin and mucosal biopsy specimens with the histologic changes of herpes virus infection served as positive controls : all were positive for herpes simplex virus dna . viral dna was not detected in control biopsy specimens from skin excised for unrelated conditions . these studies support the association of herpes simplex virus in the pathogenesis of some cases of erythema multiforme . the polymerase chain reaction provides a quick and effective method of detecting herpes simplex virus in lesions of herpes-associated erythema multiforme . furthermore , the polymerase chain reaction may delineate those cases of erythema multiforme that are etiologically related to herpes virus infection and therefore might be treated with acyclovir to prevent recurrence . 
epidermotropic eccrine porocarcinoma . three cases of epidermotropic eccrine porocarcinoma are summarized and compared with reported cases . all patients had a long-standing tumor on a lower extremity that rapidly metastasized to the skin and proximal lymph nodes . the histologic picture was consistent with an intraepidermal eccrine sweat gland carcinoma . 
allergic contact dermatitis to two antioxidants in latex gloves : 4,4 ' - thiobis ( 6-tert-butyl-meta-cresol ) ( lowinox 44s36 ) and butylhydroxyanisole . allergen alternatives for glove-allergic patients . allergic contact dermatitis developed on the hands and/or face of two patients after exposure to latex examination gloves . both patients were patch test negative to the usual rubber allergens , but both had a positive patch test reaction to 4,4 ' - thiobis ( 6-tert-butyl-m-cresol ) ( lowinox 44s36 ) . patient 2 was also patch test positive to butylhydroxyanisole . the patients were tested with other gloves , to find gloves that they could safely use . glove manufacturers were queried to ascertain the occurrence of lowinox 44s36 and butylhydroxyanisole in different brands of latex and vinyl examination gloves . a list of gloves and their associated allergens was generated and is provided to assist dermatologists in helping patients choose gloves free of specific allergens . 
pathogenesis of onychoschizia ( lamellar dystrophy ) . onychoschizia or lamellar dystrophy of the nails is common , especially in adult women , but little information is available about its cause . most theories involve environmental factors , but supportive experimental data are scarce . therefore we studied the in vitro nail changes produced by several organic solvents , detergents , water , other polar materials , and both acidic and basic solutions . challenged and control fingernail clippings were examined grossly , microscopically , and by scanning electron microscopy at regular intervals . there was a progressive increase in severity with prolonged wetting and drying . by 3 weeks , scanning electron microscopy demonstrated unattached individual cells in empty spaces in which separation was more prominent . basic solutions caused some softening , but layering ( peeling ) was seen only after repeated hydration and dehydration . although other factors may influence onychoschizia , the typical changes can be produced in normal nails after a 21-day challenge of repeated exposure to water followed by dehydration . these findings suggest a probable cause for the condition and a logical approach to management . 
isotretinoin for refractory lupus erythematosus . we describe six patients with cutaneous manifestations of lupus erythematosus who were treated with isotretinoin , 1 mg/kg/day . in each case the cutaneous lesions had proved resistant to systemic corticosteroids and antimalarial therapy . treatment with isotretinoin resulted in rapid clinical improvement in all cases . recurrences were similarly rapid when the drug was discontinued . side effects were minimal and easily controlled by adjustments in dose or by the use of lubricants . 
unfading acral microlivedo . a discrete marker of thrombotic skin disease associated with antiphospholipid antibody syndrome . small erythematous or cyanotic lesions on the hands and feet of four patients with antiphospholipid antibodies are described . these discrete lesions outline capillaries and do not disappear when pressure is applied . the histologic features are identical to those described in skin thrombotic syndrome associated with antiphospholipid antibodies , that is , microthrombi in dermal vessels without inflammation . in addition to indicating antiphospholipid antibodies in apparently healthy patients , this sign could be a marker of risk for large-vessel thrombosis . 
cutaneous manifestations in patients with essential thrombocythemia . in a retrospective study of 268 patients with essential thrombocythemia , related cutaneous manifestations were found in 58 ( 22 % ) . in 27 cases ( 10 % ) the related skin lesions were present at the time of the primary diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia . hematomas , ecchymoses , petechiae , or purpura occurred in 24 ( 41 % ) of the 58 patients . fifteen patients ( 26 % ) had erythromelalgia , in 11 of whom it was the initial complaint . livedo reticularis , recurrent superficial thrombophlebitis , ischemic complications with gangrene , leg ulcers , or ulcers on the toes were other manifestations . urticaria occurred in two patients , and raynaud 's phenomenon and necrotizing vasculitis were each observed in one patient . platelet function may be abnormal , and this was found in 13 of 19 patients studied , 9 of whom had spontaneous platelet aggregation . knowledge of the cutaneous manifestations in essential thrombocythemia may lead to its earlier detection . prompt diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia is important because treatment may prevent severe hemorrhagic or thrombotic events . 
allergy and toxicodermia from shiitake mushrooms . skin and respiratory symptoms developed within 2 months of exposure in a patient involved in the commercial production of shiitake mushrooms . a diagnosis of contact urticaria and allergic contact dermatitis from shiitake mushrooms was confirmed by prick and patch tests . the respiratory symptoms , their timing , the presence of precipitating igg antibodies to shiitake spores and increased amounts of inflammatory cells and t lymphocytes in bronchoalveolar lavage indicated allergic alveolitis ( mushroom worker 's disease ) . a generalized exanthem developed in a second patient after eating raw shiitake mushrooms . reactions to prick and patch tests with shiitake mushrooms were negative . the skin eruption in this patient corresponded to the previously reported shiitake-induced toxicodermia . 
round fingerpad sign : an early sign of scleroderma . we describe a clinical skin sign in scleroderma termed round fingerpad sign . this term refers to disappearance of the peaked contour on fingerpads and replacement with a hemisphere-like fingertip contour ; this change is especially apparent on the ring fingers . a positive round fingerpad sign was found in 72 of 72 ring fingers in 36 patients with progressive systemic sclerosis in 69 of 72 ring fingers in patients with mixed connective tissue disease , and in 24 of 24 ring fingers of patients with raynaud 's phenomenon and sclerodactyly . in contrast , a negative round fingerpad sign was seen in 240 of 240 fingers in normal women ( controls ) . the high sensitivity of this sign is noteworthy . a positive round fingerpad was seen in sign not only typical scleroderma patients but also in groups with less severe skin sclerosis ( i.e. , in those patients with mixed connective tissue disease or those with raynaud 's phenomenon and sclerodactyly ) . the sign is a new and useful clinical marker for the early diagnosis of scleroderma . 
immune sensitization against epidermal antigens in polymorphous light eruption . to get further insight into the pathogenesis of polymorphous light eruption , we studied nine patients with polymorphous light eruption and six healthy persons . two skin biopsy specimens were obtained from each person , one from previously ultraviolet light-irradiated skin and another one from unirradiated skin . an epidermal cell suspension , skin homogenate , or both were prepared from each specimen . autologous cultures were made with peripheral blood mononuclear cells combined with irradiated or unirradiated skin homogenate and peripheral blood mononuclear cells combined with irradiated or unirradiated epidermal cell suspension . cell proliferation was assessed by 3h-thymidine incorporation assay . the response of peripheral blood mononuclear cells to unirradiated epidermal cells or unirradiated skin homogenate was similar in both patients and controls . however , peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with polymorphous light eruption showed a significantly increased proliferative response to both irradiated epidermal cells and irradiated skin homogenate . our results indicate that ultraviolet light increases the stimulatory capability of polymorphous light eruption epidermal cells in a unidirectional mixed culture with autologous peripheral blood mononuclear cells . this suggests that an immune sensitization against autologous ultraviolet light-modified skin antigens occurs in polymorphous light eruption . 
grafting of venous leg ulcers . an intraindividual comparison between cultured skin equivalents and full-thickness skin punch grafts . skin equivalents that consisted of a noncontracted collagen gel populated with allogeneic fibroblasts and covered with autologous cultured keratinocytes were used for grafting venous leg ulcers . the results were compared in the same patient with those obtained with a routinely used standard method of grafting with autologous full-thickness punch grafts . the skin equivalents and the punch grafts were grafted successfully in four of five patients . the median healing time of ulcers grafted with skin equivalents was 18 days whereas that of ulcers covered with punch grafts was 15 days . the cosmetic appearance of the skin equivalent-grafted ulcers was better than that of the punch-grafted ulcers . 
treatment of pyoderma gangrenosum with cyclosporine : results in seven patients . the mainstay of therapy for pyoderma gangrenosum has been corticosteroids , but many patients respond poorly . during the past 2 years we have treated seven patients who had pyoderma gangrenosum with cyclosporine after their condition proved resistant to conventional therapy . no evidence of permanent toxicity from cyclosporine was detected and treatment with other immunosuppressive agents was discontinued in five of seven cases . tuberculosis was reactivated in one patient . three patients had a remission , three had an intermediate response , and one did not respond . these results indicate that cyclosporine is useful in the treatment of patients with refractory pyoderma gangrenosum and suggest an immune mechanism in the pathogenesis of this disorder . 
propylene glycol dermatitis . propylene glycol is a commonly used vehicle for topical preparations . although it is well suited for this purpose , it is capable of producing both primary irritant skin reactions and allergic sensitization . the literature on propylene glycol is reviewed , with particular attention to the nature of these adverse cutaneous effects . guidelines for patients sensitive to propylene glycol are discussed . 
porokeratoses : immunohistochemical , light and electron microscopic evaluation . punch biopsy specimens of 14 patients with porokeratosis of mibelli ( n = 1 ) , disseminated superficial porokeratosis ( n = 6 ) , disseminated superficial actinic porokeratosis ( n = 4 ) , porokeratosis plantaris , palmaris et disseminata ( n = 2 ) , and punctate porokeratosis ( n = 1 ) were obtained for light and electron microscopy for evaluation of possible differences between these clinical variants . langerhans cells in close contact with early degenerating keratinocytes could be observed in the epidermis . to study the cellular composition of the epidermal inflammatory infiltrate immunohistochemistry was performed . these studies demonstrated that the predominant cell type in these infiltrates are helper t cells , intermingled with leu-6 + langerhans cells . despite the clinical variation and possible different etiologic or triggering mechanisms , the immunohistochemical and morphologic changes in all types of porokeratosis are the same and seem to represent a uniform reaction pattern . 
pyoderma gangrenosum followed by subcorneal pustular dermatosis in a patient with iga paraproteinemia . six months after the occurrence of pyoderma gangrenosum , subcorneal pustular dermatosis developed in a 60-year-old woman . the patient 's serum was found to contain an iga-lambda paraprotein . although similar cases have been reported , this case is unique in that a distinct episode of pyoderma gangrenosum was followed by subcorneal pustular dermatosis . 
persistent light reaction to hexachlorophene . the first patient with what appears to be persistent light reaction caused by hexachlorophene alone is reported . persistent light reaction may occur in patients with milder degrees of photosensitivity , and appropriate photopatch testing should be performed . 
hereditary lactate dehydrogenase m-subunit deficiency : lactate dehydrogenase activity in skin lesions and in hair follicles . a 16-year-old japanese girl had desquamating erythematosquamous lesions mostly on the extensor surface of the extremities . the lesions were worse in summer . the patient also had a mild muscle pain after strenuous exercise . her paternal and maternal grandfathers are cousins . an analysis of lactic acid dehydrogenase ( ldh ) isozymes in her serum revealed a single peak of ldh1 . analysis of ldh isozymes of erythrocytes demonstrated a complete lack of ldh m-subunit in the patient and a substantial lack in the parents . the epidermis of the diseased skin and scalp hair follicles of the patient were virtually devoid of ldh activity . 
thrombotic vasculopathy associated with cryofibrinogenemia . cryofibrinogenemia refers to the presence of cold-precipitable plasma proteins associated with a variety of disorders , including malignancies , inflammatory processes , and thrombohemorrhagic phenomena . few cases of essential or primary cryofibrinogenemia are reported . we report a case in a 48-year-old man of essential cryofibrinogenemia and hemorrhagic necrosis of the ears and of the upper and lower extremities . histopathologic studies demonstrated extensive eosinophilic thrombi in the dermal vasculature , with minimal inflammation and no vasculitis . cryofibrinogenemia should be considered in the investigation of patients with otherwise unexplained cold intolerance and dermal thrombosis associated with minimal or no inflammation . 
a syndrome characterized by nodular eosinophilic infiltration of the skin and immunoglobulin isotype imbalance . a 9-year-old boy had recurrent acute , plaquelike , nodular infiltrations with overlying vesicles and bullae of the face and right hand . histologically , the lesions consisted of a perivascular and periadnexal lymphohistiocytic infiltrate with many eosinophils . the lesions responded to dapsone therapy . laboratory studies revealed blood eosinophilia , hyperimmunoglobulinemias e and g4 , and hypoimmunoglobulinemias m and g1-3 , which normalized after treatment . the patient 's immune deviation is consistent with a transient imbalance of lymphokine production in helper t cells . 
trichothiodystrophy with chronic neutropenia and mild mental retardation . trichothiodystrophy is a feature of several diseases that consist of characteristic hair shaft abnormalities and a wide spectrum of other developmental defects . detection of sulfur-deficient hairs identifies this disorder and separates it from other similar ectodermal dysplasias with normal sulfur content . detection of low sulfur hair syndrome is also important for genetic counseling , because the disease appears to be an autosomal recessive trait . we report a patient with chronic neutropenia , mild mental retardation , and low sulfur content in hair . our case expands the spectrum of disorders associated with trichothiodystrophy . 
hereditary deficiency of c5 in association with discoid lupus erythematosus . a 29-year-old woman with discoid lupus erythematosus had undetectable classic pathway complement activity . hypocomplementemia was due to selective deficiency of c5 . one of her children was also deficient . to our knowledge this is the first documented case of an association between discoid lupus erythematosus and c5 deficiency . 
morphologic comparison of patients with mitral valve prolapse who died suddenly with patients who died from severe valvular dysfunction or other conditions . clinical and necropsy findings are described in 56 patients with mitral valve prolapse : 15 patients , aged 16 to 69 years ( mean 39 ) , died suddenly and mitral valve prolapse was the only cardiac condition found at necropsy ( hereafter called isolated mitral valve prolapse ) ; the remaining 41 patients had other conditions that were capable of being fatal . of the latter 41 patients , 7 , aged 17 to 59 years ( mean 45 ) , had associated congenital heart disease , and 34 patients , aged 17 to 70 years ( mean 52 ) , had no associated congenital cardiac abnormalities . compared with the 34 patients without associated congenital heart disease and with nonmitral valve prolapse conditions capable in themselves of being fatal , the 15 patients who died suddenly with isolated mitral valve prolapse were younger ( mean age 39 + / - 17 versus 52 + / - 15 years ; p = 0.01 ) , more often women ( 67 % versus 26 % ; p = 0.008 ) and had a lower frequency of mitral regurgitation ( 7 % versus 38 % ; p = 0.02 ) . the 15 patients dying suddenly with isolated mitral valve prolapse also were less likely to have evidence of ruptured chordae tendineae ( 29 % versus 67 % ; p = 0.04 ) . the frequency of increased heart weight ( 67 % versus 59 % ) , a dilated mitral valve anulus ( 80 % versus 81 % ) , a dilated tricuspid valve anulus ( 17 % versus 17 % ) , an elongated anterior mitral leaflet ( 86 % versus 54 % ) , an elongated posterior mitral leaflet ( 79 % versus 77 % ) and fibrous endocardial plaque under the posterior mitral leaflet ( 73 % versus 63 % ) was similar between the two groups . the severity of the prolapse ( mild 20 % versus 11 % ; moderate 27 % versus 58 % ; severe 53 % versus 32 % ) also was similar between the two groups . thus , persons with mitral valve prolapse dying suddenly without another recognized condition tend to be relatively young women without mitral regurgitation . 
safety of and immunological response to a recombinant vaccinia virus vaccine expressing hiv envelope glycoprotein in a randomised phase i trial of a recombinant vaccina virus vaccine expressing the gp160 envelope gene of the human immunodeficiency virus ( hivac-1e ) 35 healthy , hiv-seronegative males , 31 of whom had a history of smallpox immunisation and 4 of whom were vaccinia naive , were vaccinated and then boosted 8 weeks later with hivac-1e or standard ny strain vaccinia virus . the frequency , duration , and titre of virus isolation from the vaccination site and occurrence of local side-effects were similar between the two groups of vaccinees . vaccinia-naive ( vac-n ) subjects shed virus from the vaccination site for longer and at a higher titre than did vaccinia-primed ( vac-p ) individuals ( 19 vs 7 days and 10 ( 7 ) vs 10 ( 5 ) pfu/ml , respectively ) . in-vitro t-cell proliferative responses to one or more hiv antigen preparations developed in 13 of 16 vaccinia-primed subjects inoculated with hivac-1e . t-cell responses were , however , transient and in no subject did antibodies to hiv become detectable . the 2 vaccinia-naive subjects vaccinated with hivac-1e showed strong t-cell responses to homologous and heterologous strains of whole virus and to recombinant gp160 protein that remained detectable for over a year ; antibodies to hiv envelope also developed in both . recombinant vaccinia virus vaccines induce t-cell priming to the foreign gene products in most individuals . if used as the sole immunising agent they will be most efficacious in vaccinia-naive individuals . 
cutaneous hypersensitivity reactions due to thiacetazone in hiv-1 seropositive patients treated for tuberculosis the effects of the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) on tuberculosis management was investigated in 227 patients initially treated with a regimen containing streptomycin , isoniazid , and thiacetazone ( sth ) . 93 of these 227 were hiv-seropositive . 60 patients , of whom 18 were hiv-seropositive , received a regimen consisting of streptomycin , isoniazid , rifampicin , and pyrazinamide ( shrz ) in the initial phase , and thiacetazone and isoniazid ( th ) in the continuation phase . cutaneous hypersensitivity reactions occurred in 22 of 111 ( 20 % ) hiv-seropositive patients , and in 2 of 176 ( 1 % ) hiv-seronegative patients ( rr = 18 , 95 % ci 4.4-76 , p less than 10 ( -7 ] . during the first 8 weeks of treatment 18 reactions occurred among the 93 hiv-seropositive patients on sth , whereas no reaction occurred in 17 hiv-seropositive patients during the initial phase of shrz/th ( p = 0.04 ) . none of the 18 hiv-seropositive patients with cutaneous reactions who were subsequently challenged with isoniazid reacted , nor did any of the 10 tested with streptomycin , but 6 of the 7 challenged with thiacetazone reacted . 3 patients ( all hiv-positive and with toxic epidermal necrolysis ) died as a result of the cutaneous reaction . these results have major implications for tuberculosis control programmes in africa . 
managing skin infections in children . because neonates and very young children have little or no immunity to common streptococci and staphylococci , skin infections caused by these organisms must be regarded warily . prompt and proper treatment may be critical in preventing progression of the lesions and averting systemic complications . 
when to suspect connective tissue disease . when a connective tissue disease is suspected , physical and historical data should be collected to build a case for a clinical syndrome . negative serologic results may be helpful ; positive ones must be used with awareness of their limitations . if a diagnosis is not clinically evident or serologically confirmed , observation may be preferable to overdiagnosis and unnecessary treatment . if the syndrome is atypical , physicians should look for evidence of clinical overlap and reevaluate regularly with an open mind . 
puva therapy . puva is an acronym for psoralen plus ultraviolet-a radiation . this form of photochemical therapy is commonly used in the treatment of psoriasis and vitiligo , but it is also beneficial in other dermatologic diseases . an understanding of psoralen 's mechanism of action and the unique properties of the various psoralen preparations is important in ensuring optimal results with this therapy . 
histologic abnormalities of large and small coronary arteries , neural structures , and the conduction system of the heart found in postmortem studies of individuals dying from the toxic oil syndrome . hundreds died and thousands were poisoned by rapeseed oil adulterated with aniline and sold illegally in spain in 1981 . the clinical manifestations , now known as the toxic oil syndrome , include pulmonary hypertension and right ventricular hypertrophy plus widespread vascular and neural lesions in other organs . many of the late deaths ended with a scleroderma-like illness . because scleroderma involves the heart , in this study we examined the small and large coronary arteries , neural structures , and conduction system from eight victims dying with the toxic oil syndrome . dense fibrosis of the sinus node in two hearts resembled changes found in scleroderma . atrionodal junctional hemorrhages and cystic degeneration of the sinus node present in the other six hearts resembled changes found in lupus erythematosus . small and large coronary arteries exhibited focal fibromuscular dysplasia and a proliferative cystic myointimal degeneration . this latter abnormality was associated with sloughing of the inner wall and embolization of the detached fragment downstream in the same coronary artery . every heart had many degenerative lesions within nerves , ganglia , and the coronary chemoreceptor . both the arterial and neural abnormalities prominently involved the conduction system . based upon observations by others with experimental feeding of rapeseed oil containing either high or low erucic acid , we suggest that this oil must remain a major suspected cause of the toxic oil syndrome , particularly in conjunction with some as yet unexplained facilitative influence by oleoanilids . if this is so , it is important to reconsider the widely recommended use of any rapeseed oil product as a suitable food for man or other animals . 
