skin exudate levels of interleukin 6 , interleukin 1 and other cytokines in mycosis fungoides . the role of locally released cytokines in inducing lymphocyte activation and infiltration in the skin lesions of mycosis fungoides has been investigated . the levels of selected cytokines were measured in chamber fluid samples from lesional and control skin . biologically active interleukin 6 was significantly elevated in lesional samples and a recombinant form of this cytokine was shown to induce lymphocyte migration in an in vitro assay . biologically active interleukin 1 was detected in all control chamber fluid samples . significantly reduced levels of this cytokine were present in lesional samples , which may be the result of the release of preformed material . interleukin 2 and tumour necrosis factor activity , and gamma interferon and granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor immunoreactivity , were not detectable in any of the samples . interleukins 1 and 6 may play a role in the pathogenesis of the lesional lymphocyte infiltrates in mycosis fungoides . 
selective regulation of the activity of different hematopoietic regulatory proteins by transforming growth factor beta 1 in normal and leukemic myeloid cells . the viability of normal bone marrow myeloid precursor cells induced by interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) or il-1 alpha and the ability of il-6 and il-1 alpha to induce the formation of colonies of granulocytes , macrophages , or megakaryocytes in densely seeded bone marrow cultures was suppressed by transforming growth factor-beta 1 ( tgf-beta 1 ) . induction of normal bone marrow colony formation by il-3 was much less sensitive to tgf-beta 1 , and there was little or no effect of tgf-beta 1 on colony formation induced by macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( m-csf ) or granulocyte-macrophage csf ( gm-csf ) . in different clones of myeloid leukemic cells , tgf-beta 1 suppressed differentiation induced with il-6 , il-1 alpha , or lipopolysaccharide ( lps ) , but did not suppress differentiation induced with il-3 or gm-csf . the effect of tgf-beta 1 on differentiation of the leukemic cells can be dissociated from its effect on cell growth . tgf-beta 1 suppressed the production of il-6 in normal bone marrow cells cultured with il-1 alpha and the production of il-6 and gm-csf in leukemic cells cultured with il-1 alpha or lps . the suppression of il-6 production can explain the suppression by tgf-beta 1 of the effects of il-1 alpha and lps that are mediated by il-6 . tgf-beta 1 also suppressed differentiation in clones of myeloid leukemic cells induced with differentiation factor/leukemia inhibitory factor and tumor necrosis factor . in different leukemic clones tgf-beta 1 suppressed or enhanced induction of differentiation with dexamethasone . the results show that tgf-beta 1 can selectively control the activity of different molecular regulators of normal and leukemic hematopoiesis . 
lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cell activity in b and t chronic lymphoid leukemia : defective lak generation and reduced susceptibility of the leukemic cells to allogeneic and autologous lak effectors . the capacity to generate lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cells and the susceptibility of the neoplastic cells to both allogeneic and autologous lak effectors were studied in b and t chronic lymphoproliferative disorders . while in b-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( b-cll ) the depressed natural killer function could be restored after a 7-day incubation with recombinant interleukin ( il-2 ) , b-cll mononuclear cells showed a reduced lak activity compared with normal lak cells . furthermore , in all but 1 of the 20 b-cll samples tested the leukemic cells were totally resistant to autologous lak effectors . in most cases the leukemic cells were also resistant to normal allogeneic lak cells . competition experiments demonstrated that the patients ' lak cells , as well as normal lak effectors , were capable of recognizing b-cll cells , pointing , therefore , to a postbinding cytolytic defect . in hairy cell leukemia ( hcl ) an overall reduced lak activity against allogeneic targets was documented , but , at variance from b-cll , hairy cells were often susceptible to the lytic effect of normal lak cells , and in half of the cases tested the neoplastic population was also sensitive in an autologous system . similarly to b-cll , in the great majority of t chronic lymphoproliferative disorders studied , the pathologic cells were resistant to normal and autologous lak effectors and a defective lak generation was found . these results demonstrate that in most b and t chronic leukemias the lak function is defective and , when inducible , does not appear directed against the leukemic population . the possibility of exploiting an immunotherapeutic approach with il-2 / lak cells in the management of chronic lymphoproliferative disorders does not gain support by these findings . 
a new monoclonal antibody ( ch-f42 ) recognizes a cd7 - subset of normal t lymphocytes and circulating malignant cells in adult t-cell lymphoma-leukemia and sezary syndrome . we describe a new rat immunoglobulin m monoclonal antibody ( ch-f42 ) that recognizes a subset ( 1.5 % to 8 % ) of normal peripheral blood t lymphocytes . the phenotype of these cells was determined , using dual-color immunofluorescence , to be cd2 + , cd3 + , cd4 + , cd5 + , cd7 - , cd8 - . they do not express t-cell activation markers , and are positive for uchl1 ( cd45ro ) , but negative for 2h4 ( cd45ra ) . the antigen was expressed on circulating malignant cells in sezary syndrome ( four of four cases ) and adult t-cell lymphoma-leukemia ( atll ) ( four of six cases ) and negative in a variety of other hematologic malignancies tested . these included chronic and acute lymphoid leukemias of b and t lineage , together with chronic and acute myeloid leukemias . however , normal ch-f42 + cells do not display any of the ultrastructural features associated with sezary or atll cells . the marked similarities between these conditions together with the shared expression of an otherwise very restricted surface antigen ( ch-f42 ) provide strong evidence for the existence of a common normal counterpart . preliminary characterization studies of the antigen , which is also expressed by k562 and jurkat cells , suggest the ch-f42 antigen is an o-linked , sialated glycan on a glycoprotein . 
expression of transcobalamin ii receptors by human leukemia k562 and hl-60 cells . plasma membrane receptors for the serum cobalamin-binding protein transcobalamin ii ( tcii ) were identified on human leukemia k562 and hl-60 cells using immunoaffinity-purified human tcii labeled with [ 57co ] cyanocobalamin . the bmax values for tcii receptors on proliferating k562 and hl-60 cells were 4,500 and 2,700 per cell , respectively . corresponding dissociation constants ( kd ) were 8.0 x 10 ( -11 ) mol/l and 9.0 x 10 ( -11 ) mol/l . rabbit tcii also bound to k562 and hl-60 cells but with slightly reduced affinities . calcium was required for the binding of transcobalamin ii to k562 cells . brief treatment of these cells with trypsin resulted in almost total loss of surface binding activity . after removal of trypsin , surface receptors for tcii slowly reappeared , reaching pretrypsin treatment densities only after 24 hours . reappearance of receptors was blocked by cycloheximide . tcii receptor densities on k562 and hl-60 cells correlated inversely with the concentration of cobalamin in the culture medium . this suggests that intracellular stores of cobalamin may affect the expression of transcobalamin receptors . nonproliferating stationary-phase k562 cells had low tcii receptor densities ( less than 1,200 receptors/cell ) . however , the density of tcii receptors increased substantially when cells were subcultured in fresh medium . up-regulation of receptor expression coincided with increased 3h-thymidine incorporation , which preceded the resumption of cellular proliferation as measured by cell density . in the presence of cytosine arabinoside , which induces erythroid differentiation , k562 cells down-regulated expression of tcii receptors . when hl-60 cells were subcultured in fresh medium containing dimethysulfoxide to induce granulocytic differentiation , the up-regulation of tcii receptors was suppressed . this event occurred well before a diminution of 3h-thymidine incorporation and cessation of proliferation . thus , changes in the regulation of expression of tcii receptors correlate with both the proliferative and differentiation status of cells . 
a retrospective analysis of therapy for acute graft-versus-host disease : initial treatment . we have reviewed results of therapy in 740 patients with grades ii-iv acute graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) after allogeneic marrow transplantation . at the beginning of therapy , 597 patients ( 81 % ) had rash , 369 ( 50 % ) had liver dysfunction and 396 ( 54 % ) had gut dysfunction . initial treatment was with glucocorticoids ( n = 531 ) , cyclosporine ( n = 170 ) , antithymocyte globulin ( atg ) ( n = 156 ) or monoclonal antibody ( n = 3 ) either singly ( n = 633 ) or in combination ( n = 107 ) . parameters of gvhd severity in each organ were recorded weekly , and evaluation of response was made using values at the initiation of secondary treatment or , for patients without such treatment , using values on day 29 of primary treatment or the last recorded value before death , whichever occurred first . minimal criteria for improvement or progression were defined for each organ , but no attempt was made to define liver or gut outcome if another complication such as venocclusive disease or infectious enteritis was present . improvement rates were 43 % for skin disease , 35 % for evaluable liver disease and 50 % for evaluable gut disease . overall complete or partial responses were seen in 44 % of patients . multivariate analyses were carried out to identify patient , disease or treatment factors associated with likelihood of overall improvement and likelihood of response in at least one organ . a similar analysis was also carried out to identify covariates associated with time to treatment failure ( defined as initiation of secondary therapy or death not due to relapse of malignancy ) . in all three models , gvhd prophylaxis using cyclosporine combined with methotrexate was associated with favorable gvhd treatment outcome compared to prophylaxis with either agent alone , and treatment with glucocorticoids or cyclosporine was more successful than treatment with atg . other factors associated with unfavorable outcome in the model of time to treatment failure and also entered in one of the response models were recipient hla disparity with the donor , presence of a liver complication other than gvhd , and early onset of gvhd . results of this analysis indicate that glucocorticoids represent the best initial therapy available for treatment of acute gvhd , although much room for improvement remains . 
coordinate secretion of interleukin-1 beta and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor by the blast cells of acute myeloblastic leukemia : role of interleukin-1 as an endogenous inducer . acute myeloblastic leukemia ( aml ) blasts have been shown to produce a variety of cytokines in culture such as interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) , il-6 , granulocyte - , macrophage - , and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) , and tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf alpha ) . using two sensitive and specific enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays for il-1 beta and gm-csf , we document in the present study that the production of the two cytokines by aml blasts in culture is coordinated . first , we observe a striking correlation between the levels of gm-csf and il-1 beta released by the cells . thus , a high production of il-1 beta is always concordant with a high production of gm-csf and , conversely , low production of il-1 beta is concordant with low levels of gm-csf . second , neutralization of intrinsic il-1 using antibodies that are specific for il-1 alpha and -1 beta suppresses the release of gm-csf by the cells . third , neutralization of the endogenous source of il-1 also results in an abrogation of gm-csf mrna . fourth , the production of both il-1 beta and gm-csf is up-regulated by exposing aml blasts to an exogenous source of il-1 , suggesting a positive regulation of autocrine growth factor production . taken together , our results indicate that gm-csf production by aml blasts is mediated by endogenously produced il-1 . both il-1 beta and -1 alpha are produced by aml blasts , although il-1 beta appears to be more abundant . spontaneous colony formation by aml blasts is abrogated by the addition of neutralizing antibodies against il-1 beta and gm-csf , whereas each antibody alone has little effect on blast proliferation . taken together , our results are consistent with the view that the production of il-1 beta by aml blasts supports autocrine growth in culture , through induction of csfs or other cytokines that stimulate blast proliferation . 
rearrangement of immunoglobulin , t-cell receptor , and bcl-2 genes in malignant lymphomas in hong kong . the pattern of malignant lymphomas in the hong kong chinese population is characterized by a low incidence of hodgkin 's disease and follicular lymphomas . the authors studied the immunoglobulin ( ig ) , t-cell receptor ( tcr ) , and bcl-2 gene rearrangement in 62 cases of malignant lymphoma in this population by southern blot hybridization . two cases of hodgkin 's disease showed no rearrangement of the ig and tcr genes . all 42 cases of b-cell lymphoma had ig heavy chain ( jh ) rearrangement with or without additional rearrangement of the light chains ( c kappa and c lambda ) . one case of diffuse b-cell lymphoma had additional t-cell receptor beta-chain ( c beta ) rearrangement . sixteen of 18 cases of t-cell lymphoma had c beta rearrangement , and one case of t-lymphoblastic lymphoma had additional jh rearrangement . two of eight ( 25 % ) cases of follicular lymphoma but only one of the 34 ( 2.9 % ) cases of diffuse b-cell lymphoma had bcl-2 rearrangement that was detected by pfl-1 probe . none of the 62 cases showed bcl-2 rearrangement using the pfl-2 probe . in conclusion , the ig and tcr gene rearrangement pattern of the lymphomas found in hong kong correlates well with the t-cell and b-cell lineage , which is similar to reports in the white population . however , the incidence of bcl-2 gene rearrangement in follicular b-cell lymphoma is lower than that reported in the us but comparable with that in japan . 
human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 associated with small cell lung cancer . a patient with small cell lung cancer ( sclc ) whose serum contained high levels of soluble interleukin-2 receptors is reported . soluble interleukin-2 receptors in the supernatant of cultured sclc cells obtained from the patient 's pleural effusion while he had malignant pleuritis , increased almost linearly from the time of cell seeding . the expression of interleukin-2 receptors ( tac ) on the sclc cells were demonstrated by an immunofluorescence study . however , other lymphocytic markers , including okt 11 , okt 4 , okt 8 , b 1 , and b 4 , were not found on the cells with the exception of the natural killer cell marker , nkh-1 . southern blot analysis indicated the rearrangement of the t-cell receptor of the cancer cells . moreover , monoclonal integration of human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 ( htlv-1 ) provirus in dna from the cancer cells was also demonstrated . these observations suggest that some sclc in htlv 1 endemic areas are associated with htlv-1 . 
angiotropic ( intravascular ) large cell lymphoma . a clinicopathologic study of seven cases with unique clinical presentations . the authors recently reported the antigenic phenotypes of three cases of so-called " malignant angioendotheliomatosis " and suggested that angiotropic large cell lymphoma ( alcl ) is a more appropriate designation for this disease . the authors now report an additional seven cases of alcl with unique clinical presentations . one patient presented with prostate enlargement , the second with lytic bone lesions and thickened nasal sinus mucosa , the third had diffuse myalgia , the fourth had dyspnea and pulmonary infiltrates , the fifth had gangrene of the lower extremities , total-body skin involvement , and pancytopenia , the sixth had a lesion of the foreskin mimicking squamous cell carcinoma , and the seventh had a mediastinal mass . in all cases histologic features were characteristic of alcl with , in two cases , extravascular spread into soft tissue . immunohistologic studies showed a b-cell phenotype in five cases and a t-cell phenotype in one case . two patients received combination chemotherapy using established treatment protocol for large cell lymphoma , and remain in complete clinical remission and two patients are responding clinically to combination chemotherapy . two patients died shortly after receiving combination chemotherapy . one patient has only recently been diagnosed as having alcl and no long-term follow-up is available . these data indicate that , although alcl affects predominantly the central nervous system and skin , unusual clinical presentations may occur , and patients with alcl may respond to combination chemotherapy for large cell lymphoma . 
primary leptomeningeal b-cell lymphoma in a 8-year-old child . a case of primary leptomeningeal b-cell lymphoma in an 8-year-old , previously healthy child is described . the child was found to have hypogammaglobulinemia , and the epstein-barr virus genome was identified in cultured tumor cells despite blood serology being negative for the virus . the patient was treated with cyclophosphamide , doxorubicin , vincristine , and dexamethasone , plus intrathecal methotrexate , and initially improved . before the initiation of craniospinal radiation , the patient developed progressive disease , deteriorated , and died 9 months after the onset of symptoms . 
genetic aspects of juvenile chronic arthritis . immunogenetic studies in the past decade have confirmed the theory of an association between one 's immunogenetic background and the manifestation of several forms of juvenile chronic arthritis ( jca ) , in particular pauciarticular-onset jca . considerable work has been done at the serologic level to demonstrate disease association with the major histocompatibility class ii antigens in pauciarticular-onset jca . the polygenic nature of jca is best illustrated by the findings in this particularly well-defined clinical subgroup . evidence is now emerging that analysis of the dna sequence , the derived protein sequence , and the structure of class ii molecules will yield significant insight into the genetic predisposition to jca . 
immunologic abnormalities of juvenile arthritis . many immunologic abnormalities have been found in children with all forms of chronic arthritis , but few are clinically useful or well understood . however , in children with arthritis it is important to distinguish among those with rheumatoid factor , antinuclear antibodies , or hypogammaglobulinemia . rheumatoid factor is specific for adult-type rheumatoid arthritis ; the presence of antinuclear antibodies increases the likelihood that the child may develop uveitis ; and hypogammaglobulinemia may be associated with complicating infections . other unusual antibodies , autoantibodies , antigen-antibody complexes , and complement activation products are found in children with arthritis , but none of these define a diagnostic or consistent group of diseases . similarly , changes in the numbers of immunologically active cells and regulating mechanisms occur but not in specific patterns . as yet , none of the known immunologic abnormalities explain the pathogenesis of these diseases and only a few appear disease specific . 
soluble mediators of articular cartilage degradation in juvenile rheumatoid arthritis . juvenile rheumatoid arthritis ( jra ) involves a wide range of joint tissues . tissue changes include proliferation of synovial cells , alterations in synovial fluid , and degradation of articular cartilage . synovial cell proliferation results in increased numbers of fibroblasts and lymphocytes . changes in the synovial fluid include increased content of antibodies , altered complement ratios , increased levels of factors stimulating cartilage-mediated proteoglycan degradation , and decreased levels of insulinlike growth factor i. levels of cytokine such as interleukin-1 and interleukin-2 vary with cell culture and assay technique . cartilage degradation is apparent from increased quantities of proteoglycan and glycosaminoglycan in serum and synovial fluid . type ii collagen peptide antibodies are also prevalent in jra patients . cartilage degradation appears linked to factors in jra synovial fluid . conditioned medium of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with jra also stimulates increased release of cartilage proteoglycan . thus , the outcome in jra likely reflects activities of interacting soluble factors that directly influence cartilage homeostasis . 
growth abnormalities in children with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis . growth abnormalities in juvenile rheumatoid arthritis can be divided into two groups : local and systemic . local disorders of growth often result in increased bone length and bone age or in marked decreases in longitudinal growth due to immobilization , premature epiphyseal closure , or fusion . common growth defects seen in the knee , hand , wrist , hip , spine , and jaw are discussed . systemic growth delay is most commonly secondary to active disease or treatment with corticosteroids . nutritional aspects such as decreased appetite , reduced caloric intake , metabolic caloric requirements greater than available intake , or lack of essential vitamins could be the cause for decreased weight and stature . 
medical treatment of juvenile arthritis . the range of medications available to treat juvenile arthritis has markedly expanded over the past 15 years . multiple new nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs ( nsaids ) are available in the united states , although only a few are approved for use in children , and none have been proven to be significantly better than aspirin in suppressing inflammation . the average time before significant improvement is noticed is over 30 days in the 50 % of the children who respond to any nsaid within three months . the percentage of responders progressively increases with the length of therapy , so treatment should be continued until one is reasonably certain that improvement will not occur before changing medication . in the more severely involved child , gold and other disease-modifying medications are used . however , it has been difficult to prove the value of these medications in controlled studies because of the high rate of significant improvement in the control group treated with nsaids . in preliminary studies , methotrexate appears to have significant benefit in children who have failed other treatments . other newer therapies , such as intravenous gammaglobulin , have only been used in a small number of patients and have not as yet been proven beneficial . 
the surgery of juvenile chronic arthritis . an overview . surgery now has a well-established place in the management of childhood arthritis . however , satisfactory results can only be achieved by a team of medical experts composed of a pediatric rheumatologist , an orthopedic surgeon , an anesthetist , a physiotherapist , and others who are knowledgeable about the particular problems of juvenile chronic arthritis . an aggressive team approach offers the best available help . 
a three-year retrospective study of synovectomies in children . the aim of this study was to evaluate the results of synovectomies in children with juvenile arthritis . five hundred twenty-eight synovectomies and tenosynovectomies were performed over a period of 13 years . the patients were followed for one , two , three , five , and ten years postoperatively . the evaluation after three years was chosen as the basis for this article . one hundred twenty-five children with arthritis who were not evaluated three years postoperatively had less severe arthritis , both locally and generally , than the evaluated group of 389 . the rate for good results and tolerability was high at one , two , and three years postoperatively but decreased with time ; more patients went from good results to poor rather than vice versa . global assessment , soft-tissue swelling , and limitation of movement seemed to be the best parameters for evaluating the results of synovectomies . it appears necessary to wait at least three years to evaluate the long-term effect of synovectomies . 
total hip and knee arthroplasty in juvenile rheumatoid arthritis . total hip or knee arthroplasty is indicated in patients with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis when there is marked functional impairment and/or severe disabling pain from advanced structural hip or knee joint involvement . relief of pain and dramatic improvement in function can be achieved in most patients . when both the hip and knee are involved , hip arthroplasty should probably be done first . regional anesthesia is preferable . careful preoperative planning is essential because custom prostheses are often required . small bone size , osteoporosis , and soft-tissue contractures make the surgery technically demanding . skeletal immaturity is not an absolute contraindication to surgery . component loosening is the most frequent late complication in hip arthroplasty . it is less common in condylar metal-to-plastic knee arthroplasty in which patellar complications predominate . cementless arthroplasty has an evolving role in the patient with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis and , to date , is more often used in the hip than in the knee . 
mucoid impaction of upper lobe bronchi in the absence of proximal bronchiectasis . mucoid impaction is a complication of asthma and is frequently recurrent in patients with allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis ( abpa ) . this report describes a patient with asthma and recurrent bilateral well-circumscribed densities on chest roentgenogram in the absence of abpa . recognition of this clinical presentation may avoid the need for invasive diagnostic procedures or steroid therapy . 
pulmonary alveolar proteinosis associated with pneumocystis carinii . ultrastructural identification in bronchoalveolar lavage in aids and immunocompromised non-aids patients . pneumocystis carinii ( pc ) has been recognized as frequently responsible for most opportunistic pulmonary infections occurring in immunocompromised aids and non-aids patients . moreover , these patients can be considered at risk for secondary pulmonary alveolar proteinosis . therefore , we have investigated the occurrence of associated secondary alveolar proteinosis and pc pneumonitis in aids and non-aids immunocompromised patients . in a series of 26 bronchoalveolar lavages ( bal ) in patients with pc pneumonitis ( 19 aids and seven non-aids patients ) , we observed on light microscopy , in addition to the honeycombed material , areas of an extracellular material that had a different pattern which was suggestive of that described in alveolar proteinosis . a systematic ultrastructural study of these 26 bal fluid samples demonstrated in each of them an accumulation of phospholipid surfactantlike extracellular material mixed or not with the pc cysts . in nine cases , the observation of lipoproteinaceous material on light microscopy and abundant phospholipid material with myelinlike and myelin tubular laminated structures on electron microscopy was highly suggestive of an associated pulmonary alveolar proteinosis ( pap ) . such an accumulation of extracellular material was not observed in the 11 bal fluid samples collected in immunocompromised patients ( seven aids and four non-aids patients ) without pc pneumonitis . these findings demonstrated a particular frequency of associated pap with pc pneumonitis . these results raise important questions concerning ( 1 ) the consequence of such an alveolar accumulation of lipoproteinaceous material on the clinical status and prognosis of the pneumonitis , and ( 2 ) the mechanisms responsible for this accumulation . 
characteristics and correlates of asthma in a university clinic population . to contribute more comprehensive information about the characteristics of asthma , this article analyzed patients served by the university of alabama at birmingham comprehensive asthma program . their physicians rated one fifth of these patients as having " severe " asthma with the remainder about equally divided between " moderate " and " mild " . one in two first received a diagnosis of asthma ten or more years previously . common comorbidities were hypertension , obesity , rhinitis , bronchitis , sinusitis , and arthritis . one half had visited an emergency room or been hospitalized for asthma in the past year . inhaled bronchodilators and continuous theophylline were the most commonly prescribed medications . side effects , especially tachycardia and insomnia , were common and almost exclusively associated with theophylline or corticosteroid therapy . spirometric assessment showed chronic airflow obstruction in those with more severe asthma . prevalence of respiratory symptoms , intensity of medication regimen , incidence of side effects , and health care utilization increased as asthma severity increased . 
formoterol in the treatment of nocturnal asthma . formoterol fumarate is a new beta 2-adrenergic agonist with a long lasting effect . the bronchospasmolytic effect of 12 micrograms of formoterol was compared with that of 200 micrograms of albuterol ( salbutamol ) in a single-center , double-blind , randomized within-patient study . the drugs were given as aerosols by mdi to 16 patients with nocturnal asthma in a stable phase . the inhalations were given at 10 pm and the fev1 values as parameter were measured before and at 1 , 2 , 6 , 8 , 10 , and 12 hours afterwards . the fev1 6 hours after administration of formoterol was significantly higher than that after albuterol ( ancova : p = 0.008 ) , and this was still the case 12 hours after the test dose at 10 am the following morning ( ancova : p = 0.009 ) . at 4 am , the fev1 fell below the basic starting value after albuterol , whereas it remained at least 10 percent above the formoterol inhalation . five patients required rescue therapy after albuterol and two after formoterol . we conclude that formoterol in a dose of 12 micrograms via mdi confers good protection against nocturnal asthma ; this was only insufficient for some patients with severe asthma , and further studies with higher dosages in these patients are clearly indicated . 
quality of life in elderly patients with chronic nonspecific lung disease seen in family practice . we studied the quality of life of elderly patients with chronic nonspecific lung disease ( cnsld ) in family practice . we also investigated the relationship between patients ' somatic condition and their quality of life . seventy patients , aged 40 years or older , with a diagnosis or symptoms of cnsld completed the sickness impact profile ( sip ) and the list of daily activities ( dal ) . pulmonary function ( fev1 , ivc ) and respiratory symptoms were assessed . the results indicated that patients were more impaired in their physical and psychosocial functioning than healthy control subjects . most lung function parameters showed no correlation with the sip scores . the respiratory symptoms of wheezing and dyspnea were related to patients ' quality of life . patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( copd ) were more restricted in their daily functioning than patients with asthma . since the relationship between patients ' somatic condition and their quality of life is weak , we recommend comprehensive care that encompasses psychosocial as well as somatic interventions . 
reactive airway dysfunction syndrome in three police officers following a roadside chemical spill . the reactive airway dysfunction syndrome ( rads ) is a recently described syndrome in which bronchial hyperreactivity and asthmatic symptoms develop in previously healthy individuals after a single large exposure to an irritating gas , fume , or vapor . we report a cluster of three philadelphia police officers who developed rads after a common exposure to toxic fumes from a roadside truck accident . results of initial pulmonary function testing were normal in all three , and methacholine challenge was required for diagnosis in two out of the three . this syndrome needs to be recognized by physicians dealing with environmental or industrial medicine as a potential cause of loss of work or inability to perform on the job . also , there is a potential for multiple individuals to develop this syndrome from a single incident . 
effect of paf-acether inhalation on nonspecific bronchial reactivity and adrenergic response in normal and asthmatic subjects . bronchial hyperreactivity , although recognized as a hallmark of asthma , is not totally understood . mast cell-derived mediators , including histamine , have been shown to cause immediate bronchoconstriction , but until recently , no single mediator has been shown to induce prolonged changes in airway reactivity . recent reports indicate paf-acether ( paf ) can induce increased nonspecific bronchial reactivity in normal subjects but not in asthmatics . we sought to elucidate the role of paf in airway hyperreactivity by comparing the effect of inhaled paf on methacholine and isoproterenol airway responsiveness in six nonasthmatic and six asthmatic subjects . neither nonspecific airway reactivity nor isoproterenol responsiveness was changed following paf inhalation in the nonasthmatic subjects in the six days following paf . asthmatics had increased airway responsiveness to methacholine at two hours post-paf , which did not persist . responsiveness to isoproterenol did not change in the asthmatic subjects . additional evaluation of the role of paf in causing changes in airway reactivity is warranted . 
studies on autoimmunity for initiation of beta-cell destruction . vi . macrophages essential for development of beta-cell-specific cytotoxic effectors and insulitis in nod mice . nod mice were treated with silica ( which is selectively toxic to macrophages ) from 4 or 20.5 wk of age . syngeneic neonatal pancreases were transplanted into the renal subcapsular space of the nod mice at 21 wk of age . silica treatment was continued until 24 wk of age , and then the mice were killed for examination of islet morphology . neither the islets in transplanted pancreases nor the host pancreatic islets from the early long-term silica-treated animals revealed insulitis . in contrast , most of the islets in transplanted pancreases from the late short-term silica-treated animals showed severe insulitis and beta-cell necrosis , as did the host islets . a further experiment was performed to compare the effect of late short-term silica treatment with that of anti-l3t4-antibody treatment of the same time and duration . in contrast to the late short-term silica-treated animals , the transplanted pancreases in the anti-l3t4-antibody-treated animals revealed intact islets , although most of the host islets showed insulitis . the control group , which received no treatment but did receive neonatal pancreases , revealed severe insulitis and beta-cell necrosis of both transplanted and host islets . these results suggest that early macrophage depletion can abolish the development of beta-cell-specific immunologic effectors but that late macrophage depletion , after the development of insulitis , does not affect the destruction of beta-cells by preexisting effectors other than macrophages . we conclude that macrophages are essential for the development of beta-cell-specific cytotoxic effectors in the initial phase of insulitis in nod mice . 
genetic control by i-a subregion in h-2 complex of incidence of streptozocin-induced autoimmune diabetes in mice . an experimental autoimmune diabetes in mice characterized by delayed-onset hyperglycemia with lymphocytic infiltrations of the pancreatic islets can be induced by multiple administrations of low doses of streptozocin ( stz ) . we report on the influence of the mhc ( h-2 complex ) on this autoimmune diabetes by comparing the susceptibilities of various congenic and recombinant strains with a b10 background . in congenic strains , c57bl/10 ( h-2b ) and b10.br ( h-2k ) mice showed a high incidence of diabetes , whereas b10.d2 ( h-2d ) and b10.s ( h-2s ) mice showed a low incidence . therefore , we suggest that the h-2 complex influences diabetes susceptibility and that both b and k are high-susceptibility alleles , whereas d and s are low-susceptibility alleles . in recombinant strains , those with the same haplotypes on the k , e , s , and d subregions of the h-2 complex showed undefined ( high and low ) susceptibilities , indicating that the diabetes-susceptibility genes are located outside these loci . strains possessing i-ab or i-ak gene products ( c57bl/10 , b10.br , b10.tl , b10.a , and b10.a ( 2r ] showed high incidences , whereas strains possessing i-ad or i-as ( b10.d2 , b10.s , b10.s ( 7r ) , b10.s ( 9r ) , and b10.gd ) showed low incidences . in addition , administration of anti-i-a monoclonal antibody prevented the manifestation of diabetes in stz-administered mice . passive transfer of stz-administered t lymphocytes to mice given minute doses of stz induced significant hyperglycemia . this successful transfer was only observed in h-2-compatible mice . thus , we conclude that one gene coding for susceptibility to this experimental diabetes was located in the i-a subregion within the h-2 complex . 
hepatocyte plasma membrane glycosphingolipid reactive with sera from patients with autoimmune chronic active hepatitis : its identification as sulfatide . sera from patients with autoimmune chronic active hepatitis were found to contain igg-class antibody to the acidic glycosphingolipid fraction from rabbit hepatocyte plasma membrane by solid-phase enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay . using serum positive for the antibody as a probe , we isolated the target antigen by iatrobeads column chromatography . analysis by thin-layer chromatography and negative ion fast atom-bombardment mass spectrometry revealed that the antigen was sulfatide . the presence of antisulfatide antibody was also confirmed by immunoblotting . the reactivity of the serum with sulfatide was diminished by preincubation of the serum with galactosylceramide-6-sulfate and sulfatide , indicating that the antibody reacted with sulfated galactosylceramide regardless of the position of the sulfate residue . the antibody was found in 92.3 % , 42.9 % , 15.8 % , 14.2 % , 0 % and 0 % , respectively , of patients with autoimmune chronic active hepatitis , primary biliary cirrhosis , cirrhosis , systemic lupus erythematosus , chronic active hepatitis and chronic persistent hepatitis . thus antisulfatide antibody was characteristic of autoimmune-type chronic liver diseases . antisulfatide antibody was absorbed by rabbit hepatocyte plasma membrane . preincubation of sera with sulfatide immobilized on sepharose decreased their reactivities with not only sulfatide but also rabbit plasma membrane and rat hepatocytes . therefore sulfatide may be a target antigen of the antibody to hepatocyte surface membrane . 
amyloid deposition in intrahepatic large bile ducts and peribiliary glands in systemic amyloidosis . amyloid deposition in the hepatic parenchyma and portal tracts in the liver is well known in systemic amyloidosis . we recently experienced an autopsy case of systemic amyloidosis presenting the amyloid deposits in the intrahepatic biliary tree . this experience prompted us to survey 19 autopsy cases of systemic amyloidosis . amyloid deposition was found just under the lining epithelium of the intrahepatic large bile duct in 10 of 19 cases and around the peribiliary glandular acini in 7 of the 19 cases , respectively . amyloid deposition in the intrahepatic large bile duct and peribiliary glands was positively correlated with the degree of amyloid deposition in the liver but not with type of amyloid protein . double-staining of amyloid and vascular endothelium disclosed that amyloid deposition was more closely related to the inner part of the peribiliary vascular plexus and to the vascular plexus encircling the peribiliary glands than the lining biliary epithelium and peribiliary glandular acinar cells themselves . the exact pathogenesis of amyloid deposition in these anatomical components , however , remains unclear . although our cases failed to show any overt clinical symptomatologies related to amyloid deposition in these biliary components , it seems conceivable that more massive amyloid deposition in these anatomical components could give rise to some clinical symptoms . 
amyloidosis in saphenous vein aortocoronary bypass grafts . a patient in whom idiopathic amyloidosis of aortocoronary saphenous vein grafts was found at autopsy two years after myocardial revascularization due to coronary atherosclerosis is reported . idiopathic generalized immunocyte derived amyloidosis extensively studied at autopsy was obviously present at the time of surgery although it remained unnoticed macroscopically in the inserted graft . it appears that simultaneously with arterialization further deposition and also significant redistribution of amyloid within the walls of the vein grafts additionally took place after their insertion . it seems interesting that in spite of the amyloidosis the grafts functioned well and were found patent two years after surgery . 
modulation of interleukin-1 beta rna in monocytic cells infected with human immunodeficiency virus-1 . the effect of hiv-1 infection on cytokine levels was studied in monocytic cells by using northern blotting analysis . monoblasts ( thp-1 , u937 ) did not express il-1 beta rna even if the cells were infected with hiv-1 . after exposure to lps ( 10 micrograms/ml ) and 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate ( tpa , 100 nm ) for 12 h , these hiv-1-infected monoblasts accumulated 8-15-fold greater levels of il-1 beta rna as compared with their hiv-1-uninfected counterparts that were similarly stimulated . in contrast , levels of rnas coding for monocyte-colony-stimulating factor ( m-csf ) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf alpha ) were elevated less than twofold in the hiv-1-infected cells as compared with hiv-1-uninfected cells after their stimulation with lps and tpa . inhibition of new protein synthesis did not block the marked accumulation of il-1 beta rna produced by exposure to lps and tpa in the hiv-1-infected cells . time-course experiments showed that the maximal levels of il-1 beta rna occurred at 12 and 24 h after lps and tpa stimulation of the hiv-1-infected and uninfected u937 cells , respectively . studies of stability of rna using actinomycin d showed that il-1 beta rna was equally stable in infected and uninfected u937 cells after their stimulation with tpa and lps . taken together , our data show that hiv-1 infection markedly augments il-1 beta rna accumulation in stimulated monocytic cells , probably through increasing rate of transcription of il-1 beta . 
autoantibodies to the hla-b27 sequence cross-react with the hypothetical peptide from the arthritis-associated shigella plasmid . we previously reported elevated serum antibody levels to a peptide representing the hla-b27 polymorphic region ( b27 peptide ) in hla-b27 ( + ) ankylosing spondylitis ( as ) patients . a plasmid ( phs-2 ) isolated from arthritogenic shigella flexneri strains had been shown to encode an amino acid sequence homologous to hla-b27 . rabbit antibody to this sequence ( phs-2 peptide ) strongly cross-reacted with b27 peptide and , to a much lesser extent , with klebsiella nitrogenase peptide . serum antibody levels to phs-2 peptide were studied in 160 spondylarthropathy patients . 12 of 115 ( 10.4 % ) as patients , 2 of 45 ( 4.4 % ) patients with reiter 's syndrome or reactive arthritis as well as 6 of 147 ( 4.1 % ) normal controls were shown to have elevated anti-phs-2 peptide antibodies . antibody levels to b27 and phs-2 peptides were significantly correlated in 134 hla-b27 ( + ) patients ( r = 0.333 , p less than 0.001 ) . 13 of 15 affinity-purified anti-b27 peptide antibodies from patients strongly cross-reacted with phs-2 peptide , whereas only 3 weakly cross-reacted to nitrogenase peptide . leucine appeared to be a critical residue for this cross-reaction . as patients ' anti-b27 peptide antibodies reacted with hla-b27 transfected l cells . these results may suggest that phs-2 peptide more efficiently " mimics " b27 peptide than does nitrogenase peptide . involvement of phs-2 in pathogenesis of spondylarthropathy through molecular mimicry mechanisms requires further study . 
polyclonal b cell activation in lupus-prone mice precedes and predicts the development of autoimmune disease . polyclonal b cell activation is an early feature of autoimmune disease in humans and mice with systemic lupus erythematosus . the contribution of polyclonal activation to the progression of autoimmunity is unclear , however , since it precedes the development of end-organ damage by months or years . to examine this issue , 109 autoimmune-prone ( nzb x nzw ) f1 x nzb backcross mice were hemi-splenectomized at 10 wk and the number and antigenic specificity of their ig-secreting b cells quantitated by elisa spot assay . of the 61 mice that had polyclonally increased numbers of ig-secreting cells/spleen , 31 died by 6 mo . in contrast , 0/48 backcross mice with normal numbers of ig-secreting b cells at 10 wk died over the same period ( p less than 0.001 ) . polyclonally activated mice also developed proteinuria earlier and more frequently than littermates with normal numbers of ig-secreting cells ( p less than 0.001 ) . as adults , backcross mice with proteinuria expressed repertoires skewed towards the production of anti-dna antibodies . at 10 wk these same mice expressed repertoires marked by polyclonal activation rather than preferential anti-dna production . these findings indicate that autoimmune disease in sle is accompanied by the autoantigen-driven production of autoantibodies but is preceded and predicted by polyclonal b cell activation . 
failure of t cell receptor-anti-cd3 monoclonal antibody interaction in t cells from marrow recipients to induce increases in intracellular ionized calcium . there are multiple immune defects in t cells from recipients after bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) . this study examines recipient t cells for increases in intracellular ionized calcium concentration [ ( ca2 + ] i ) after binding the t cell receptor-cd3 complex with anti-cd3 mab . pbl from 10 of 23 short-term recipients ( less than 1 yr after bmt ) responded poorly ( less than 35 % of control ) to anti-cd3 stimulation and pbl from 9 of 23 had blunted calcium flux responses ( 35-70 % of control ) . purified cd2 + , cd56 - cells from seven additional short-term recipients including three autologous marrow recipients were closely examined , and a sizable proportion of cd3 + cells from six of seven recipients did not increase [ ca2 + ] i after anti-cd3 stimulation . the decreased magnitude of the responses was due to decreased numbers of responding cells and not to a decrease in mean cd3 fluorescent intensity or in calcium flux responses on a single cell basis . five of seven long-term recipients ( greater than 1 yr after bmt ) had pbl that responded normally and two of seven had pbl with blunted calcium flux responses . the data show that the signal transduction response mediated by the cd3-antigen receptor as measured by calcium flux is defective early after autologus or allogeneic bmt . 
tartrate resistant acid phosphatase positive splenic lymphoma : a relatively benign condition occurring in a time-space cluster ? conventional light and electron microscopic studies , together with cytochemical and immunocytochemical staining procedures , were carried out to ascertain whether the lymphomata of four elderly female patients living within 10 kilometers of each other , who presented within a short space of time with massive splenomegaly and varying cytopenia , belonged to any particular subgroup of lymphoma . in each case the lymphoma had a diffuse pattern and mature b cell phenotype . the malignant cells were of uniform cell type , slightly larger than admixed polymorphonuclear leucocytes , and showed minimal nuclear irregularity and positivity for tartrate resistant acid phosphatase ( trap ) staining . their clinical and morphological features were compared with those of other lymphoproliferative disorders , but while sharing some features in common with each condition , this small group of patients seemed to have a unique combination of findings . the cytopenias of all four responded well after removal of the spleen and their disease has not been aggressive . it is concluded that these patients have a distinct subgroup of lymphoma , which it is important to recognise so that inappropriate use of aggressive cytotoxic drugs can be avoided . 
effect of sample volume on yield of positive blood cultures from adult patients with haematological malignancy . six hundred and sixteen blood samples from patients with haematological malignancy were each distributed equally among three identical cells in a malthus microbiological growth analyser . the mean ( sd ) volumes inoculated into sets in which one , two , or three of the three bottles were positive were 37.7 ( 10.1 ) ml , 37.4 ( 12.9 ) ml , and 37.7 ( 10.5 ) ml , respectively . overall , clinically important organisms were isolated from one bottle only with 18 cultures , from two bottles only with 19 cultures , and from all three bottles in a set with 104 cultures . if the yield from a single bottle inoculated with a mean volume of 12.6 ml blood is taken as 100 % , the yield from 25.2 ml in two bottles was 110.7 % and the yield from 37.7 ml in three bottles was 115.6 % . the increased yield from increased volume was considerably lower than that reported from unselected groups of patients , which suggests that the magnitude of bacteriaemia is greater in patients with neutropenia . the isolation of infecting organisms from the blood of patients with neutropenia is , however , particularly important in directing chemotherapy and consequently 45 ml blood samples from these patients continue to be requested . 
hypereosinophilic syndrome with unusual cutaneous manifestations in two men with hiv infection . we report two men with human immunodeficiency virus infection who had unusual cutaneous manifestations of hypereosinophilic syndrome , exfoliative erythroderma , and linear flagellate plaques . in the first patient the cutaneous disease was the initial manifestation , and in the second the skin was the only organ affected . we also describe a favorable response to systemic corticosteroids and to psoralen with uva phototherapy in one patient . 
photochemotherapy improves chronic cutaneous graft-versus-host disease . we have used oral psoralen photochemotherapy ( puva ) to treat four patients with chronic graft-versus-host disease of the skin , oral mucosa , and liver , who had responded only partially to long-term immunosuppressive therapy ( prednisolone , cyclosporine , azathioprine ) . puva therapy was delivered to the entire skin but not to the oral mucosa , and immunosuppressive therapy was continued in all patients . two patients ' skin lesions improved considerably ; the oral lesions healed and did not recur in one . immunosuppressive therapy could be reduced in these two patients . one patient with sicca signs did not improve . one patient had to interrupt puva therapy because of side effects attributed to 8-methoxypsoralen ( nausea and vomiting ) . no flare of acute cutaneous graft-versus-host disease was noted during puva therapy . chronic graft-versus-host disease of the liver did not improve in any patient . 
incidence of cutaneous t cell lymphoma and other rare skin cancers in a defined population . between 1970 and 1984 in rochester , minnesota , rare skin cancers developed in 15 local residents : cutaneous t cell lymphoma ( six subjects ) , dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans ( four ) , adenocarcinoma of sweat glands ( two ) , merkel cell carcinoma ( one ) , liposarcoma ( one ) , and extramammary paget 's disease ( one ) . these cases were identified through a unique computerized retrieval system that is maintained at the mayo clinic for the population of rochester , minnesota . the annual incidences of these cancers in the rochester population were 0.9 , 0.5 , 0.3 , 0.2 , 0.2 , and 0.2 per 100,000 residents , respectively ( standardized to 1980 u.s. population ) . to our knowledge , this is the first report of the incidences of these rare skin cancers in a well-defined population . 
platelet activating factor-induced clinical and histopathologic responses in atopic skin and their modification by the platelet activating factor antagonist bn52063 . the clinical and histopathologic responses to intradermal platelet-activating factor ( paf-acether ) in atopic subjects , without evidence of atopic dermatitis are documented . an immediate acute wheal and flare reaction was observed in all volunteers . histopathologically , the reaction was characterized by a predominantly neutrophilic response , which was seen at 30 minutes and was maximal at 4 hours . eosinophils were observed in the infiltrate as early as 30 minutes after injection , and were maximal by 12 hours . the specific paf-acether antagonist bn52063 antagonized the acute flare response to intradermal paf-acether but had little effect on cellular recruitment at the site of injection . 
cutaneous lesions of disseminated histoplasmosis in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients . disseminated histoplasmosis is being diagnosed more frequently in persons infected with the human immunodeficiency virus and is often the initial manifestation of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . disease-related cutaneous features of hiv-associated disseminated histoplasmosis are defined as mucocutaneous lesions from which fungal organisms were either cultured or demonstrated histopathologically . we report four hiv-seropositive patients with disseminated histoplasmosis who had culture-positive skin or oral lesions of histoplasmosis and review the specific cutaneous manifestations of hiv-associated disseminated histoplasmosis . including our patients , disease-related skin and/or mucosal lesions were present in 11 % of patients ( 26 % of 239 ) with hiv-associated disseminated histoplasmosis . the possibility of disseminated histoplasmosis should be considered in all hiv-infected persons and in persons with aids risk factors who have fever , weight loss , hepatosplenomegaly , and new cutaneous lesions . an early skin or mucosal biopsy specimen for crushed tissue preparation , histologic evaluation , and fungal culture is a simple , rapid diagnostic procedure . 
itraconazole in opportunistic mycoses : cryptococcosis and aspergillosis . striking results were obtained with oral itraconazole therapy in two opportunistic mycoses . of 28 patients with cryptococcal meningitis , 18 achieved complete responses , including 16 of 24 patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . other manifestations of cryptococcosis were similarly responsive . in aspergillosis 12 of 15 patients responded , including 8 of 10 immunocompromised hosts . these patients included those with invasive pulmonary disease ( 4/5 ) , skeletal disease ( 2/2 ) , pleural disease ( 1/2 ) , and pericardial , sinus , mastoid , hepatosplenic , or nail disease ( 1/1 ) . these results with itraconazole compare favorably to conventional ( parenteral ) therapy , and toxicity was minimal . this suggests that comparative trials are now in order . 
enhanced reactive oxygen species metabolism of airspace cells and airway inflammation follow antigen challenge in human asthma . airflow limitation and airway inflammation follow antigen bronchoprovocation in sensitized individuals . inflammation likely results from the interplay of several previously demonstrated factors , but the participation and persistence of enhanced reactive oxygen species ( ros ) metabolism of airspace cells after antigen challenge have received more limited attention . we studied nine subjects with mild asthma by bronchoalveolar lavage before and 48 ( one subject ) to 72 ( eight subjects ) hours after antigen bronchoprovocation and compared airspace cell numbers and types , cell function , and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid protein , albumin , and immunoglobulins . mild , but significant , airflow limitation persisted at the time of the second lavage . eosinophil influx was a notable component of the increased airspace cells in postchallenge lavages . airspace cells demonstrated significantly enhanced ros metabolism , and total protein , albumin , and igm levels were higher in postchallenge lavage specimens . antigen bronchial challenge produces airspace inflammation , which may develop , in part , as a consequence of enhanced ros metabolism of airspace cells . 
anaphylaxis during induction of general anesthesia : subsequent evaluation and management . twenty-seven patients were referred for evaluation of anaphylaxis after induction of general anesthesia ( ga ) in which thiobarbiturates , muscle relaxants , or antibiotics were administered intravenously . skin testing by the prick and intracutaneous methods was performed with dilutions of the thiobarbiturates and muscle relaxants ; beta-lactam reagents were used in patients who had also received these drugs . no skin test reactivity was noted in 16 normal subjects . skin tests were positive in 13 patients ( thiobarbiturates in five , muscle relaxants in six , and antibiotics in two patients ) . two patients were dermatographic and yielded indeterminate skin test results . eleven of the 27 patients subsequently had ga ; all patients received a premedication regimen of prednisone and diphenhydramine . of three patients with negative skin tests , one experienced an arrhythmia , but no other signs attributable to anaphylaxis were noted . one patient with dermatographism had ga without a reaction . positive skin tests implicated an agent that was avoided in seven patients ; one of these patients experienced delayed urticaria/angioedema after the completion of ga . thus , no patients developed anaphylaxis during subsequent ga for which agents producing positive skin tests were avoided , and a premedication regimen was used . 
repeated exposure of asthmatic airways to inhaled adenosine 5 ' - monophosphate attenuates bronchoconstriction provoked by exercise . inhaled adenosine 5 ' - monophosphate ( amp ) induces bronchoconstriction in subjects with asthma , probably caused by histamine release from airway mast cells , and repeated amp bronchial challenge leads to attenuation of the bronchoconstrictor response . since exercise-induced bronchoconstriction may be mediated by hypertonic mast cell degranulation , we postulated that repeated amp bronchial challenge should reduce the response to subsequent exercise challenge . eight atopic subjects with asthma took part in an unblinded , randomized trial . on the control study day , a treadmill exercise test previously demonstrated to induce a greater than 20 % fall in fev1 was performed . on the amp study day , three amp dose-response bronchial challenges were performed at 1-hour intervals . each amp challenge was continued until either a provocative concentration causing a 20 % fall in fev1 had been achieved ( pc20 ) and the pc20 was calculated , or the maximum concentration of amp ( 400 mg/ml ) had been administered . after recovery of the fev1 from amp challenge , a treadmill exercise test identical to the test on the control study day was performed . on the amp study day , the geometric mean pc20 was 15.3 ( 7.9 to 29.5 ) mg/ml for the first test , and 28.2 ( 10.7 to 77.4 ) mg/ml for the third test ( not significant ) . on the control study day , the mean maximum percentage fall in fev1 after exercise was 28.0 % + / - 2.7 % , whereas on the amp study day , it was reduced to 13.0 % + / - 4.3 % ( p less than 0.01 ) . a significant correlation was found between the change in responsiveness to amp induced by repeated challenge and the attenuation of the subsequent exercise response ( p less than 0.05 ) . 
determinants of in vivo histamine release in cutaneous allergic reactions in humans . to determine host factors influencing the magnitude of mediator release during ongoing cutaneous allergic reactions in humans , we compared , in 22 subjects , the first-hour , second - to fifth-hour , and total ( 0 to 5 hours ) skin chamber histamine release to ( 1 ) the in vitro reactivity and sensitivity of basophils to antigen for histamine release and ( 2 ) skin test sensitivity and reactivity to antigen , histamine , and codeine . there was no significant correlation between the first-hour and second - to fifth-hour histamine release . with a combination of basophil , antigen , histamine , and codeine skin sensitivity and reactivity , 64 % to 75 % of the magnitude of the first-hour , second - to fifth-hour , and total ( 0 to 5 hours ) skin chamber histamine release could be accounted for . we conclude that antigen-induced in vivo allergic responses are a complex phenomenon dependent , in part , on antigen sensitivity , basophil and mast cell reactivity , and end organ responsiveness to mediators . 
the relationships among shrimp-specific igg subclass antibodies and immediate adverse reactions to shrimp challenge . high levels of shrimp-specific ige , in association with a positive prick test , are not always predictive of a positive , immediate response to double-blind , placebo-controlled , food challenge ( dbpcfc ) with shrimp . the observation that shrimp-sensitive individuals in general have increased levels of circulating shrimp-specific igg is of interest because antigen/allergen-specific igg subclasses have been associated with adverse reactions to foods . therefore , this current study measured shrimp-specific igg subclass and ige antibodies in 31 individuals with histories of immediate , adverse reactions to shrimp immediately before dbpcfc and 20 shrimp-tolerant subjects . individuals with a history of shrimp sensitivity had significantly raised shrimp-specific igg2 and igg4 compared to shrimp-tolerant individuals . challenge-positive subjects were distinguished from subjects with negative or equivocal responses by an increased igg2 ( p less than or equal to 0.001 ) . specific igg4 was not raised ( p less than or equal to 0.065 ) . these studies indicate that some shrimp-specific igg subclass levels are increased in shrimp-sensitive subjects . however , none of the subclass responses were significantly predictive of a positive response to dbpcfc and therefore were not diagnostic of shrimp intolerance . 
molecular targets for aids therapy . the development of antiretroviral therapy against acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) has been an intense research effort since the discovery of the causative agent , human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) . a large array of drugs and biologic substances can inhibit hiv replication in vitro . nucleoside analogs -- particularly those belonging to the dideoxynucleoside family -- can inhibit reverse transcriptase after anabolic phosphorylation . 3 ' - azido-2 ' ,3 ' - dideoxythymidine ( azt ) was the first such drug tested in individuals with aids , and considerable knowledge of structure-activity relations has emerged for this class of drugs . however , virtually every step in the replication of hiv could serve as a target for a new therapeutic intervention . in the future , non-nucleoside-type drugs will likely become more important in the experimental therapy of aids , and antiretroviral therapy will exert major effects against the morbidity and mortality caused by hiv . 
assessing the risk of occupational acquisition of the human immunodeficiency virus : implications for hospital policy . in determining infection control policy , it is essential to quantitatively assess the risk of transmission of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) to health care workers and their families . the risk should be placed in perspective by comparing it with other occupational hazards . the risk of seroconversion from a needlestick injury can be calculated from the probability of a needlestick occurrence , the probability that the source patient is infected , and the probability of seroconversion , given an exposure . the risk of seroconversion due to drawing 1000 blood specimens from seropositive patients is between 86 and 470 in 100,000 . the risk to surgeons from performing 25 operations on infected patients is approximately 272 in 100,000 . the risk of fatal injury in the course of one year 's work on a louisiana oil rig is between 188 and 283 per 100,000 . 
disseminated strongyloidiasis in aids and non-aids immunocompromised hosts : diagnosis by sputum and bronchoalveolar lavage . in conclusion , disseminated strongyloidiasis is a fatal disease that commonly affects the lungs . the disease should be suspected in an immunocompromised host who came from an area endemic for s stercoralis even years before the onset of symptoms or in patients with unexplained gram-negative bacteremia or meningitis . treatment should be started promptly and should be maintained for a long time . 
cytomegalovirus-induced osteomyelitis in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . a 43-year-old man with aids had a periodontal abscess , no fever , and normal findings on funduscopic examination . three months later , the abscess area was debrided , and histologic examination of the tissue revealed osteomyelitis of the mandible . within the area of osteomyelitis were numerous cells with inclusions typical of cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infected cells . funduscopic examination at that time revealed extensive cmv retinitis . osteomyelitis should be added to the list of infections caused by cmv in patients with aids . 
use of a management plan for treating asthma in an emergency department . a standardised management protocol has been developed for the assessment and treatment of adults with acute asthma attending an emergency department . the management protocol consists of an assessment sheet for recording essential features of the history and examination findings and a flow diagram with guidelines for initial management that were based on spirometric recordings . the protocol was introduced at wellington hospital in 1986 . the effect of this intervention was assessed by analysing emergency department records during the three months before and one year after the introduction of the protocol . the use of the assessment sheet improved history taking and led to the increased use of serial measures of airflow obstruction and improved documentation of follow up arrangements . the provision of management guidelines influenced the emphasis of management , including an increased use of corticosteroids intravenously and more frequent use of an additional dose of nebulised bronchodilator . in the light of the initial experience the protocol has been modified and its use either in an emergency department or in general practice is recommended . 
hiv disease : a review for the family physician . part i. evaluation and conventional therapy . family physicians will be challenged with caring for increasing numbers of patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus . after confirming the presence of the infection , the physician must follow a logical sequence of evaluation , counseling and treatment . the current centers for disease control classification and a series of evaluation and treatment protocols form the basis for prescribing zidovudine to delay or mitigate involvement of t lymphocytes and neuronal cells . 
merkel cell carcinoma metastatic to the testis . tumor metastases to the testes are rare and are usually found incidentally at autopsy or after orchiectomy for prostatic carcinoma . it is even more unusual for testicular metastases to be clinically detected or symptomatic . the authors report two cases of clinically detected testicular metastases from merkel cell carcinoma of the skin . merkel cell carcinoma metastatic to the testes has not been reported previously . the two tumors , to some degree , resembled testicular lymphomas and the interstitial type of seminoma . 
global and molecular hemostatic markers in acute myeloid leukemia . patients with acute myeloid leukemia have multiple hemostatic and thrombotic complications , which may or may not result from disseminated intravascular coagulation . previous studies incorporating routine coagulation analyses failed to detect any clinically useful information in most of these patients . in this study , the first comprehensive evaluation of the various aspects of the hemostatic system in a population of patients with acute myeloid leukemia was performed . eighteen patients ( 23-71 years of age ) were studied at either diagnosis or relapse . hemostatic studies were performed at onset and on days 3 , 7 , and 30 after initiation of therapy . the bone marrow blast counts ranged from 8 % to 98 % ; prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time showed only minor prolongations in a few of these patients . however , in all patients measurement of platelet-associated markers revealed elevated platelet factor 4 and thromboxane b2 and normal 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha levels . fibrinolytic markers showed an increase in d-dimer and tissue plasminogen activator and a decrease in alpha 2-antiplasmin levels . plasminogen , plasminogen activator inhibitor , and fibrinogen levels were normal . coagulation markers demonstrated a decrease in protein c and antithrombin iii levels and an elevation of the thrombin-antithrombin complex . the pretreatment values for all hemostatic markers studied were similar to the values obtained on days 3 , 7 , and 30 during treatment . this investigation demonstrated a subclinical activation of the components of the hemostatic system possibly leading to a hypercoagulable state . although only six patients ( 33 % ) experienced hemorrhagic complications , the risk of bleeding and/or thrombosis was strongly evident in all patients . the significance of finding abnormal levels of specific molecular markers of hemostasis will be established in the future application of such markers in clinical evaluations of leukemic patients known to be at risk for coagulation disorders . 
isolation of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) at autopsy one to six days postmortem . blood and tissue were studied for potential infectivity at autopsy of ten patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . special attention was paid to the possibility of detecting hiv in bone at craniotomy . postmortem intervals were one to six days . specimens for hiv isolation included skull bone , brain , blood , bone marrow , spleen , and lymph node , and cerebrospinal fluid in one case . hiv grew in culture from at least one specimen from eight autopsies , one of which was performed six days postmortem . hiv was recovered from the blood of five patients and the tissue of five patients , including three with negative blood cultures . skull bone contained hiv in two cases . hiv also grew from native spleen specimens stored for up to 14 days postmortem at 20 degrees c. recommended precautions , including those for bone , are indicated at autopsy of hiv-infected patients even after long postmortem intervals . 
anaplastic large cell ( ki-1 ) lymphoma with histiocytic phenotype simulating carcinoma . histiocytic and epithelial cell types share many cytomorphologic and functional characteristics ; it is predictable , therefore , that corresponding malignancies might be difficult to distinguish . described is the case of a 52-year-old woman in whom disseminated anaplastic large-cell lymphoma simulated carcinomatosis by conventional morphologic criteria . evidence of histiocytic differentiation was derived from immunocytochemical , fine structural , and genetic probe analyses . the diagnosis of histiocytic neoplasia is discussed in relation to categories previously termed malignant histiocytosis , " ki-1 " lymphoma , and regressing atypical histiocytosis , and comparisons are made with animal tumor models . 
protein-losing enteropathy in systemic lupus erythematosus associated with intestinal lymphangiectasia . this case report concerns a young woman with systemic lupus erythematosus who presented with a protein-losing enteropathy . intestinal biopsy revealed lymphangiectasia . mesenteric lymph nodes showed paracortical lymphoid depletion and multiple small sinusoids . elevated cholesterol levels and normal lymphocyte counts characterized the peripheral blood samples . lymph nodes , though enlarged , showed no evidence of obstructive pathology . no secondary cause of lymphangiectasia could be identified . the patient exhibited antinuclear antibodies and antibodies to dsdna at the onset , and then , 5 yr later , the classic features of systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) . the lymphocytopenia and hypolipidemia that characterizes lymphangiectasia is not a feature of the sle cases reported to date . furthermore , the mechanism for the dilated lymphatics and villous edema is more likely immunological than mechanical disruption of lymphatics . 
renal disease in the elderly : the role of the renal biopsy . the causes of renal disease in the young and the elderly vary in their frequency . there are many indications for renal biopsy in older patients , with the nephrotic syndrome ( ns ) being the most common , followed by acute renal failure . biopsy does not carry a greater risk for older patients , but there is a greater risk of complications when there is coexistent renal insufficiency . interpretation of the renal biopsy in elderly patients may be more complex because of changes associated with aging or intercurrent disease -- arteriolar sclerosis and global sclerosis . a prospective study is needed to determine the exact prevalence of renal insufficiency , ns , and other renal diseases in noninstitutionalized elderly individuals and to determine the role of renal biopsy in making these determinations . 
treatment of glomerulonephritis in the elderly . glomerular disease was assessed in persons who had renal biopsies and who were age 60 years and older in retrospective reviews of referral-based cohorts in europe , the united states , and japan . from a cumulative total of 514 patients reported from five centers , 337 ( 66 % ) patients had primary glomerular diseases and 177 ( 34 % ) had various secondary renal diseases . amyloidosis was the largest histopathologic group among the secondary disorders . idiopathic membranous nephropathy was the most common primary glomerulopathy ( 107/337 [ 32 % ] patients ) and also comprised 46 % of nephrotic patients . in our experience covering two consecutive 13-year periods from 1959 to 1984 , there was an increase both in total number of patients , and in percentage more than 60 years old , with membranous nephropathy in the more recent study period compared with the earlier period reflecting a trend to more biopsy procedures that included older patients . non-immune-mediated rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis ( rpgn ) , thought by some to be more common in older adults , has been shown to represent a crescentic glomerulonephritis associated with systemic necrotizing vasculitis . treatment with corticosteroids had a short-term favorable effect on renal function in this disorder over that achieved in antiglomerular basement membrane-associated or idiopathic rpgn . however , the 5-year patient survival was remarkably lower in older patients irrespective of the disease entity . on the other hand , age was not associated with progressive renal failure in patients with membranous nephropathy . finally , minimal change glomerulopathy accounted for 35 of 204 ( 17 % ) nephrotic subjects , and complete remissions occurred after corticosteroid treatment at the same frequency ( 80 % to 90 % ) observed in younger patients . 
immunoproliferative small intestinal disease : portrait of a potentially preventable cancer from the third world . purpose : to review the recent progress in the understanding of clinical and laboratory characterization as well as management of immunoproliferative small intestinal disease ( ipsid ) . data identification : a literature search was conducted using index medicus , medline ( 1962 to 1989 ) , and bibliographies of identified relevant articles . study selection : all international comprehensive reviews , reported epidemiologic or immunologic studies , and prospective clinical trials published or abstracted in english were selected . results of data synthesis : a high incidence of lymphoma primarily in the gastro-intestinal tract in third world countries has stimulated enormous epidemiologic and pathogenetic interests globally . ipsid , with a distinctive biologic marker ( alpha heavy chain para-protein ) , affects the young underprivileged population of those countries . the initially benign-appearing antibiotic-responsive immunoproliferative lesions often evolve to fatal high-grade lymphomas . roles of environmental and host factors in this evolutionary course are emerging . recently demonstrated malignant potentials form the early onset of pathogenesis have given a new dimension to the traditional management strategy of ipsid . conclusions : epidemiologic , immunologic , and pathogenetic data that have emerged over the last 25-year study of ipsid have improved our understanding about the complexity of infection-immunity-cancer interrelationships , comparable to those that have arisen from the study of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . early detection and institution of antimicrobial-based treatment regimens with judicious and consistent follow-up can save the lives of many young patients whose manpower is badly needed in third world countries . 
sexually transmitted diseases and human immunodeficiency virus infection among women with pelvic inflammatory disease . both human immunodeficiency virus infections and pelvic inflammatory diseases are sexually acquired illnesses of great consequence to women . this study was undertaken to determine if women hospitalized with pelvic inflammatory disease , in a community endemic for human immunodeficiency virus , were at high risk to be infected with human immunodeficiency virus and if human immunodeficiency virus infections altered their hospital course . one hundred ten women hospitalized with pelvic inflammatory disease in brooklyn ( in a hospital in which 2 % of parturients are human immunodeficiency virus seropositive ) agreed to human immunodeficiency virus testing ; 15 ( 13.6 % ) were found to be seropositive . seropositive women were significantly more likely to have an admission white blood cell count less than 10,000 / mm3 ( p = 0.001 ) . human immunodeficiency virus seropositivity was not associated with a higher frequency of other sexually transmitted diseases although there was a trend toward more cases of syphilis among human immunodeficiency virus-infected women . similarly , although there was no significant difference in rates of operative intervention ( 26.6 % among seropositive and 8.4 % among seronegative ; p = 0.058 ) , there was a trend toward more surgery among those who were human immunodeficiency virus infected . women hospitalized with pelvic inflammatory disease , in a community endemic for human immunodeficiency virus , are at high risk for human immunodeficiency virus infection . more research is needed to verify a trend toward more refractory infections among human immunodeficiency virus-infected women . 
rapidly progressive outer retinal necrosis in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome two patients , both seropositive for the human immunodeficiency virus , developed rapidly progressive retinal necrosis associated with a systemic herpes zoster infection . the retinitis in these patients was characterized by primary involvement of the outer retina , with sparing of the inner retina and retinal vasculature until late in the disease process ; a rapidly progressive course ; poor response to intravenous acyclovir ; and development of rhegmatogenous retinal detachment . in one of the patients , the retinitis was initially multifocal . electron microscopy of a retinal biopsy specimen from one of the patients demonstrated virus particles consistent with a herpesvirus , and polymerase chain reaction disclosed herpesvirus in a retinal biopsy specimen of the other patient . this entity may represent a distinct form of acute retinal necrosis that is seen in immunocompromised individuals . 
lyme borreliosis in the severe combined immunodeficiency ( scid ) mouse manifests predominantly in the joints , heart , and liver . the authors describe the histopathologic evolution of lyme disease in severe combined immunodeficiency ( scid ) and normal c.b-17 and c57bl/6 mice inoculated with borrelia burgdorferi . starting on day 7 after inoculation , all scid mice infected subcutaneously in the tail with a low-passage european tick isolate of b. burgdorferi had clinical evidence of arthritis characterized by reddening and swelling of tibiotarsal joints . later on , other joints , ie , metatarsal and ulnacarpal joints were also affected . the infection of scid mice resulted in a persistent spirochetemia and the development of a multisystem disease with chronic progressive inflammation of joints , heart , and liver . major histopathologic alterations included 1 ) severe joint lesions , characterized by the presence of hyperplastic inflamed synovial lining cells associated with the erosion and destruction of cartilage and/or bone ; 2 ) pancarditis with infiltrations of mononuclear cells in the endocardium , myocardium , and pericardium ; and 3 ) hepatitis with mononuclear cell infiltrations confined to the portal field and central vein , granulomatous reactions , and eventually the development of liver fibrosis . in addition , smaller more confined lesions were found in kidneys , lung , brain , and striated muscle . the inflammatory infiltrates in the various organs were associated mostly with mac-1 + cells , largely monocytes and macrophages , as well as some polymorphonuclear leukocytes , but not b and t lymphocytes . infective spirochetes could be readily isolated from blood and joints and were found at the site of inoculum and the myocardium . in contrast , subcutaneous inoculation of normal c.b-17 or c57bl/6 mice with spirochetes in general did not result in clinical signs of arthritis . only 10 % to 20 % of the c57bl/6 mice , but none of the c.b-17 mice , showed clinical evidence of oligoarthritis , which appeared not before day 36 after inoculation . in general , the infection of normal mice resulted in minimal lesions in various organs , and no spirochetes could be visualized or reisolated from their tissues . the data demonstrate that lyme borreliosis may develop in mice in the absence of detectable specific b and t cells and thus suggest an immunologic control of the disease in this species . the scid mouse model therefore can be used to define the components of the immune system responsible for the suppression and/or the progression of the disease . 
morphometric analysis of follicular center cell lymphomas . the lukes/collins classification of non-hodgkin 's lymphomas subdivides follicular center cell ( fcc ) lymphomas into four categories based on nuclear size , shape , and state of transformation . because of the well-recognized difficulty in making these subdivisions in routine histologic sections , a morphometric analysis of typical small cleaved ( sc ) , large cleaved ( lc ) , small noncleaved ( snc ) , and large noncleaved ( lnc ) fccs was performed to describe and compare these four categories using objective parameters . the following features , which had been previously tested on normal follicles , were measured and calculated : nuclear area ( na ) , nuclear contour index of ellipticity ( ncie ) , nuclear contour index of nuclear irregularity ( ncini ) , and a relative chromatin dispersal index ( cdi ) . the presence of nucleoli also was recorded . mean values for the na , ncie , ncini , and cdi were significantly different among all four fcc lymphoma subtypes , except that the cdi , which reflects transformation , was similar for the sc and lc cell groups . comparison using the proportion of cells with nucleoli in each case revealed significant differences between all but the snc and lnc groups . the lc group had the highest mean nuclear ellipticity and nuclear irregularity values . mean nuclear area was smallest for the sc group followed by the lc , snc , and lnc groups . despite these many differences , all parameters showed a broad spectrum of values when either mean values for individual cases of each fcc subtype or distribution curves for all cells within a certain subtype were compared . this morphometric data demonstrates that the four histologically recognized types of fcc lymphomas are distinctive using a more analytic technique . this study also provides further insight into the differences among them . evidence of nuclear transformation ( nuclear size , chromatin dispersal , and frequent nucleoli ) is a more important criterion than nuclear contours in distinguishing lnc from lc lymphomas . although lc lymphomas have some features intermediate between sc and the noncleaved fcc lymphomas , they more closely resemble sc lymphomas . finally morphometric analyses such as these provide an objective morphologic foundation for future prospective investigations of transformation-related phenomena ; these studies may facilitate comparison of morphologic data with immunophenotype and genotype in non-hodgkin 's lymphomas and comparison of various other b-cell neoplasms with follicular center cell neoplasms . 
bacterial lipopolysaccharide transforms mesangial into proliferative lupus nephritis without interfering with processing of pathogenic immune complexes in nzb/w mice . systemic lupus erythematosus is a multifactorial systemic disease in which genetic , immunologic , hormonal , and environmental factors may contribute to disease pathogenesis . bacterial products ( eg , bacterial lipopolysaccharide [ lps ] ) induce a lupuslike disease in normal mice and trigger an early and accelerated form of lupus nephritis in nzb/w mice . to investigate whether the mechanism by which lps accelerates nephritis in the nzb/w mice involves interference with processing of immune complexes ( ic ) , we administered lps to nzb/w mice for 5 weeks and probed the kinetics of removal , liver uptake , and organ localization of a subsaturating dose of radiolabeled ic ( 2.5 mg of bovine serum albumin-antibovine serum albumin ) . control nzb/w mice received vehicle ( saline ) alone . in nzb/w exposed to lps , features of polyclonal b-cell activation ( pba ) were enhanced , anti-dna antibodies were raised , and a proliferative glomerulonephritis developed that was associated with renal insufficiency and substantial proteinuria . this lps-accelerated nephritis could not be attributed to altered complement concentration , to altered blood cell carrier function , to delayed removal of pathogenic ( large-sized ) ics from the circulation , to impaired liver uptake of ics , or to enhanced localization of ics in kidney . the findings indicate that transformation of nephritis is probably the result of lps-induced pba , that defective processing of pathogenic ic is not a contributory factor to nephritis , and that mechanisms other than passive renal localization of circulating ics must be operative . 
antidepressant pharmacotherapy of depression associated with multiple sclerosis . in a double-blind clinical trial involving 28 patients with multiple sclerosis and major depressive disorder , 14 patients were randomly assigned to a 5-week trial of desipramine and individual psychotherapy and 14 to placebo plus psychotherapy . clinical judgments indicated that patients treated with desipramine improved significantly more than the placebo group . this was confirmed by scores on the hamilton rating scale for depression but not by beck depression inventory scores . side effects limited desipramine dosage in half of the treated patients . the authors conclude that desipramine has a modest beneficial effect in serious depression associated with multiple sclerosis but that side effects may be more of a limiting factor than in patients without medical or neurologic disease . 
thyroid function and ultrasonically determined thyroid size in patients receiving long-term lithium treatment . thyroid function was investigated in 100 manic-depressive patients . goiter was more common in patients treated with lithium for 1-5 years ( 44 % ) or more than 10 years ( 50 % ) than in patients who never received lithium ( 16 % ) . smoking contributed significantly to thyroid size and goiter . in nonsmoking patients , ultrasonically determined thyroid volume was significantly related to treatment duration . the mechanism behind this increased thyroid volume is unclear , as most patients had normal serum thyrotropin levels and no thyroid autoimmunity . subclinical or overt hypothyroidism was found in 4 % and 21 % of patients treated for 1-5 and more than 10 years , respectively . since few hypothyroid patients had autoimmunity or goiter , lithium may affect the thyroid gland directly . 
relationship between anesthetic procedure and contact of anesthesia personnel with patient body fluids . we recorded the frequency with which anesthesia personnel came in contact with patient body fluids in order to provide an empirical basis for the recommendation of relevant precautions . anesthesia personnel completed a questionnaire when performing a range of standardized procedures . the rate of contact with blood was as follows : catheterization of peripheral vein , 18 % ; insertion of central venous catheter , 87 % ; arterial puncture , 38 % ; lumbar puncture , 23 % ; catheterization of the extradural space , 34 % ; tracheal intubation , 4 % ; tracheal extubation , 9 % ; suction of oral cavity , pharynx , or trachea , 13 % ; intramuscular injection of drug , 8 % ; and establishment or discontinuation of drip for blood transfusion , 43 % . by using protective gloves , 98 % of contacts with patient blood would have been prevented . blood contact was more frequent in the emergency ward than in the operating room ( p less than 0.05 ) . health care workers were not able to predict when a specific procedure would imply that contact with patient blood would occur . we recommend that specific precautions be adopted for the various procedures and discuss precautions that could have prevented contact with body fluid . 
bakers ' asthma : prevalence and evaluation of immunotherapy with a wheat flour extract . one hundred thirty-nine bakers and pastry cooks were included in a prevalence study of ige-mediated hypersensitivity to wheat flour demonstrated by skin tests , specific ige to wheat flour ( rast ) , and inhalation challenge . from the sensitized workers , we selected 30 asthmatic patients . twenty patients were treated with a standardized wheat flour extract , and ten with a placebo in a double-blind clinical trial . before and after immunotherapy we performed tests in vivo ( skin tests with wheat flour and methacholine tests ) , and in vitro ( total ige and specific ige to wheat flour ) . we found substantial prevalence of wheat flour allergy ( 25.17 % of workers ) , and a significant decrease ( p less than .001 ) in hyperresponsiveness to methacholine , skin sensitivity ( p = .002 ) , and specific ige ( p less than .005 ) to wheat flour after 20 months of immunotherapy . there was also significant subjective improvement ( p less than .001 ) . the placebo group showed no changes in these variables . 
oral gold therapy in steroid-dependent asthma , nasal polyposis , and aspirin hypersensitivity . eight patients are described who fulfill the criteria for the triad of asthma , nasal polyposis , and aspirin hypersensitivity who have been treated with oral chrysotherapy from 7 to 17 months . patient diary and symptom scores reflect an overall improvement in global symptoms . monthly pulmonary assessment ( spirometry ) does not indicate a significant change ( improvement or deterioration ) but average daily oral prednisone requirements have decreased . one of eight patients experienced a minor side effect of treatment but did not require discontinuation of therapy . oral gold therapy may prove to be an alternative therapy in a select population of patients and permit a reduction or discontinuation of oral corticosteroid therapy . 
dust mite assays in clinical allergy practice : mite antigen exposures among skin test positive patients in kansas . we have attempted to determine whether sensitive monoclonal antibody assays for dermatophagoides mite antigens der p i and der f i can be carried out in a private clinical allergy practice laboratory , to ascertain incidence of significant home mite exposure in dust samples from patient homes in kansas , and to consider whether such information impacts on patient management . we analyzed 152 dust samples from 62 patient homes . all patients were skin prick test positive for one or both common mite species available for skin testing , and had potentially relevant histories . der p i and der f i antigen levels were added together , and levels above 2 micrograms/g of dust were considered " positive . " by this definition , elevated levels were found in at least one sample from 48 of 62 homes tested ( 77 % ) ; however , 61 % of mattress samples tested , 41 % of carpet samples , and 54.5 % of furniture samples had levels below those considered likely to cause symptoms . only 13 of 152 samples yielded der p i levels above 2 micrograms/g . we conclude that monoclonal antibody assays for der p i and der f i antigens can be performed in a well-equipped office laboratory staffed by trained medical technologists , that der f i is the predominant mite species in kansas , and that data derived from mite assays may be important in treatment planning for patients suspected of having mite-related allergy symptoms . 
effect of exercise on complement activity . complement measurements of c1 , c1q , c2 , c3 , c4 , c5 ; the anaphylatoxins , c3a , c4a , and c5a ; and total hemolytic activity of the classical and alternative pathways were made in 26 experienced adult runners before and after shortterm aerobic exercise . the baseline results were compared with those of nonexercising age-matched controls . in most subjects tested , running resulted in nanogram increases in c3a and c4a with corresponding decreases in the hemolytic activity of c4 ( c4h ) . baseline values of c3 and c4h were decreased significantly in runners when compared with nonexercising controls . preliminary studies measuring the effect of exercise on c3a levels were also done in three asthmatic runners . mean resting and postexercise levels , and exercise-induced increases in c3a anaphylatoxin in the asthmatic subjects were significantly higher than in the nonasthmatic subjects . the findings indicate that short-term exercise results in the activation of c3 and c4 and subsequent generation of c3a and c4a anaphylatoxins , and suggest that both activation of the classical pathway of complement and a selective downregulation of c3 production may occur in persons regularly engaged in aerobic exercise . the exaggerated generation of c3a by asthmatic subjects during exercise raises the possibility that anaphylatoxins play an etiologic role in exercise-induced asthma . 
bronchoconstriction induced by spirometric maneuvers in patients with bronchial asthma . we analyzed forced expiration maneuver-induced bronchoconstriction in 14 asthmatic patients and in seven normal subjects by breaking down the forced expiration maneuver of spirometry ( the fvc maneuver ) into two phases : a slow , deep inspiration to the total lung capacity ( tlc ) ( the di maneuver ) and a forced expiration to the residual volume ( rv ) ( the pfv maneuver ) . specific airway conductance ( sgaw ) was measured at functional residual capacity ( frc ) after each of the three maneuvers . all of the maneuvers caused the greatest bronchoconstriction immediately after completion of the maneuver . the mean decreases in the sgaw immediately after the fvc , di , and pfv maneuvers were 45.0 + / - 6.6 ( sd ) % ( p less than .001 ) , 29.6 + / - 5.3 % ( p less than .001 ) , and 16.7 + / - 5.3 % ( p less than .03 ) , respectively . the decrease in sgaw by the fvc maneuver was very close to the combined algebraic sum of the di maneuver and the pfv maneuver . the normal subjects did not show any changes in the sgaw by any of the maneuvers . the inhalation of albuterol almost abolished the response of bronchoconstriction to any of the three maneuvers , but inhalation of an anticholinergic agent , ipratropium bromide , did blunt the response . this study suggests that forced expiration maneuver-induced bronchoconstriction in asthmatics can be caused not only by deep inspiration to the tlc but also by forced expiration to the rv , and that the bronchoconstriction may be brought about mainly by an increase in parasympathetic activity . 
endogenous opioids modulate the increase in ventilatory output and dyspnea during severe acute bronchoconstriction . the aim of this study was to evaluate whether endogenous opioids are involved in the regulation of breathing pattern and respiratory drive during bronchoconstriction induced by methacholine ( mch ) . we studied six male asymptomatic asthmatics 18 to 35 yr of age . in a preliminary study we determined the concentration of mch causing a 60 % fall in fev1 ( pc60 fev1 ) . on two subsequent days , we measured breathing pattern , dyspnea sensation ( borg scale ) , mouth occlusion pressure ( p0 .1 ) , and fev1 before and 10 min after an intravenous injection of either naloxone ( 0.1 mg/kg ) or saline according to a randomized double-blind crossover design . a mch concentration equal to the pc60 fev1 was then inhaled , and measurements were repeated 5 min later . neither placebo nor naloxone affected baseline breathing pattern , p0 .1 , and fev1 . naloxone pretreatment did not influence airway response to mch ; the mean percent fall in fev1 was 65.9 + / - 1.3 and 64.7 + / - 1.2 % ( mean + / - 1 se ) on the placebo day and the naloxone day , respectively . after mch inhalation no significant changes in ve , vt , and breathing frequency occurred when patients received placebo . however , p0 .1 increased from 1.48 + / - 0.17 to 3.43 + / - 0.70 cm h2o ( p less than 0.05 ) , and vt/ti fell from 0.66 + / - 0.08 to 0.52 + / - 0.04 l/s ( p less than 0.05 ) . naloxone pretreatment resulted in an increase in breathing frequency ( from 18.2 + / - 1.7 to 22.8 + / - 2.6 breaths/min ; p less than 0.05 ) and vt/ti ( from 0.58 + / - 0.06 to 0.74 + / - 0.05 l/s ; p less than 0.05 ) after mch . 
effects of deep inhalation during early and late asthmatic reactions to allergen [ published erratum appears in am rev respir dis 1991 feb ; 143 ( 2 ) :451 ] eighteen asthmatic patients with a biphasic asthmatic reaction to house dust mite were studied . the effect of deep inhalation ( di ) was quantitated by comparing the maximal expiratory flow at 40 % ( mef40 ) of vital capacity from partial ( p ) and maximal ( m ) flow-volume curves , and specific airway conductance ( sgaw ) before and after di ( sgawdi ) . at baseline , the ratio mef40m/p was significantly larger than unity ( 1.45 + / - 0.26 sd ) , whereas the ratio sgawdi/sgaw was not significantly different from unity ( 0.92 + / - 0.24 ) . during early phase reaction , both mef40m/p and sgawdi/sgaw were significantly increased to 2.66 + / - 0.97 and 1.96 + / - 0.47 , respectively . during late phase reaction , when the fev1 values were similar to those observed during early phase reaction , mef40m/p and sgawdi/sgaw were 1.86 + / - 0.46 and 1.43 + / - 0.29 , respectively , significantly higher than the values at baseline but significantly lower than those during early phase reaction . similar results were obtained in a subgroup of nine patients when sgaw values during the late phase reaction were similar to those during the early phase reaction . we conclude that di has a different effect during early and late asthmatic reactions , suggesting a different ratio of airway to parenchymal hysteresis . this may result from an increased parenchymal hysteresis ( more peripherally located bronchial obstruction ) or a decreased airway hysteresis ( prominent airway inflammation ) during the late phase reaction . 
the effect of repetitive exercise on airway temperatures to determine if a relationship exists between intra-airway thermal events and the reduction in pulmonary mechanics that occur in asthmatics when they perform repetitive exercise , we recorded intrathoracic airstream temperatures in seven subjects during and after two identical bouts of cycle ergometry performed 30 min apart . from these data , global and regional thermal energy exchanges were calculated . inspired air conditions , work loads , and minute ventilations were held constant for both trials . pulmonary mechanics were measured prior to and serially after each challenge . as expected , the second provocation produced a smaller response than did the first . in association with these mechanical changes , the second challenge also produced less airway cooling and slower rewarming in the central airways . hence , repetitive exercise trials performed over short intervals attenuate the essential thermal gradients necessary to produce obstruction . to the extent that these differences in intra-airway temperature reflect changes in perfusion , our data raise the possibility that the responsivity of the bronchial microcirculation of asthmatics may be altered by repetitive exercise . 
effect of long-term treatment with an inhaled corticosteroid ( budesonide ) on airway hyperresponsiveness and clinical asthma in nonsteroid-dependent asthmatics . several short-term studies have shown that inhaled steroids can reduce airway hyper-responsiveness in asthma . to evaluate whether prolonged treatment can bring about full recovery , this double-blind , randomized , controlled trial examined the effect of budesonide , 400 micrograms daily for 1 yr , on airway hyperresponsiveness . the time course and characteristics of improvements and associated changes in clinical asthma severity were also evaluated . thirty-two stable adult asthmatics , requiring bronchodilators alone , were selected . before and monthly throughout the study , airway responsiveness to methacholine was measured and clinical asthma severity assessed by questionnaire , daily bronchodilator use , and number of asthma exacerbations . patients receiving budesonide showed a fourfold mean improvement in airway responsiveness compared with those receiving placebo ( p less than 0.0005 ) , whose responsiveness remained very stable . fifteen of the 16 budesonide subjects improved and 5 returned to the normal range . largest improvements occurred during the first 3 months but , in some , were still progressing slowly at 1 yr . improvements in responsiveness were accompanied by significant improvements in asthma symptoms , bronchodilator use , and number of asthma exacerbations . the results show that regular , prolonged use of inhaled steroid can produce marked improvements in airway hyperresponsiveness , sometimes with full resolution , and these improvements are accompanied by clinically significant improvements in clinical asthma . 
epidemiology of infection by nontuberculous mycobacteria ix . evidence for two dna homology groups among small plasmids in mycobacterium avium , mycobacterium intracellulare , and mycobacterium scrofulaceum . a 12.9 kb plasmid , pvt2 , from a clinical mycobacterium avium isolate , md1 , was cloned and radiolabeled for use as a dna probe to examine the relatedness of plasmids in m. avium complex . that probe hybridized with plasmids isolated from m. avium complex strains from the environment ( 7 of 16 ) and from non-acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) ( 10 of 17 ) and aids ( 5 of 6 ) clinical isolates . the similarity of plasmids from the environment with those from patients supports the hypothesis that the environment is a source of human m. avium complex infection . more striking was the observation that pvt2 hybridized with every plasmid ( 13 of 13 clinical and 5 of 5 environmental isolates ) of 13.5 kb or smaller . a second probe , consisting of a 15.3 kb plasmid ( plr7 ) from another clinical isolate of the m. avium complex , hybridized with plasmids of 15.3 to 25 kb from environmental and clinical ( aids and non-aids ) isolates . there was no hybridization between pvt2 and plr7 . thus , these two probes define two different groups of small mycobacterial plasmids . 
quantitation of mast cells and eosinophils in the bronchial mucosa of symptomatic atopic asthmatics and healthy control subjects using immunohistochemistry we have used fiberoptic bronchoscopy to obtain endobronchial biopsies in which mast cells and eosinophils were enumerated using monoclonal antibodies directed against mast cell tryptase ( aa1 ) and the eosinophil cationic protein ( eg2 ) . eleven symptomatic atopic asthmatics treated with beta 2-agonists alone and six normal subjects were studied . over a period of 2 wk prior to bronchoscopy , patients recorded asthma symptom scores , bronchodilator usage , and twice-daily peak expiratory flow . five days before bronchoscopy , methacholine responsiveness was assessed . two biopsies were taken from the subcarinae , one of which was processed into araldite for immunostaining by the streptavidin biotin immunoperoxidase method and the other into spurr resin for electron microscopy . the number of aa1 staining mast cells present in the bronchial mucosa was not significantly different in the epithelium or submucosa between the asthmatic and the normal subjects . however , in the biopsies from asthmatics , there were significantly greater numbers of eg2-staining eosinophils in the epithelium ( median , 1.2 / mm versus zero ; p less than 0.005 ) and in the submucosa ( median , 50/mm2 versus 1/mm2 ; p less than 0.001 ) . electron microscopy showed morphologic features of mast cell and eosinophil degranulation in the asthmatics . no correlation could be established between mast cell or eosinophil numbers and indices of disease activity of pc20 methacholine , which points to the complexity of mechanisms responsible for the symptoms and the airway hyperresponsiveness of asthma . 
central airway obstruction due to cytomegalovirus-induced necrotizing tracheitis in a patient with aids . cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infection in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) can present as either disseminated disease , pneumonitis , retinitis , gastroenteritis , neuropathy , or a subclinical infection . we report a patient whose initial manifestation of cmv infection was severe central airways obstruction due to necrotizing tracheitis . at bronchoscopy , the lesion appeared deeply ulcerated , distinctly different from previously described airway lesions in patients with aids . mucosal biopsies showed characteristic intranuclear and intracytoplasmic inclusions and cultures yielded only cmv . the patient responded partially to ganciclovir , steroids , and antibiotics against suspected anaerobic superinfection but died as a result of central nervous system disease believed due to toxoplasmosis or lymphoma . cmv infection of the upper airway should be considered in the patient with aids presenting with atypical cough or stridor and ulcerated endobronchial lesions . 
sarcoidosis complicated by hiv infection : three case reports and a review of the literature . we report three cases of sarcoidosis complicated by human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection and review four other isolated case reports in the literature . there is clinical overlap of both diseases , including symptoms , pulmonary function abnormalities , and lymphocyte function . bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) in these patients showed a lymphocytic alveolitis without pathogens . bal lymphocyte subset analysis showed markedly depressed cd4 + / cd8 + ratios in three patients . these data were clinically useful for distinguishing the cd8 + alveolitis associated with hiv infection from the cd4 + alveolitis associated with sarcoidosis . three patients improved with corticosteroid therapy . two patients with bal-documented cd8 + alveolitis tolerated discontinuation of steroids . one patient 's sarcoidosis improved without therapy concurrent with the diagnosis of kaposi 's sarcoma . another patient developed sarcoidosis 1 yr after manifesting hiv positive serology . bal can be used to distinguish the lymphocytic alveolitis of sarcoidosis from that associated with hiv infection . patients with active sarcoidosis complicated by hiv infection can be effectively treated with corticosteroid therapy . 
a clinical triad to diagnose paraneoplastic retinopathy . two elderly men developed photosensitivity and light-induced glare , transient visual symptoms , and progressive visual loss several months before small cell carcinoma of the lung was discovered . both patients had impaired visual acuity and color vision , ring scotomas , and attenuated retinal arteriole caliber . electroretinography demonstrated abnormal cone and rod-mediated responses . antiretinal antibodies were identified in their serum . their visual sensory function improved following therapy with immunosuppressive agents . the triad of photosensitivity , ring scotomatous visual field loss , and attenuated retinal arteriole caliber should alert one to a paraneoplastic disorder affecting the retina . 
soluble interleukin-2 receptors in cerebrospinal fluid from individuals with various neurological disorders . soluble interleukin-2 ( il-2r ) levels in the cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) were studied in infectious , inflammatory , degenerative , and neoplastic disorders to evaluate their usefulness as a marker for the presence of activated t cells , thus indicating an inflammatory process . csf from control subjects and patients with stationary , progressive , and treated multiple sclerosis ( ms ) ; aseptic meningitis ; lymphoid and nonlymphoid central nervous system ( cns ) tumors ; alzheimer 's disease , as well as serum from ms patients and control subjects were studied for levels of soluble il-2r . a significant increase in csf il-2r levels was observed in patients with ms , meningitis , and lymphoid cns tumors ; the ms group showed the highest values . csf from individuals with alzheimer 's disease and from patients with nonlymphoid tumors did not show significantly elevated values . serum il-2r levels were significantly higher in ms patients than in control subjects , but there was no significant correlation between individual serum and csf il-2r levels . this study suggests the presence of activated t-lymphocytes in the cns of patients with ms. 
multiple sclerosis is prevalent in the zoroastrians ( parsis ) of india . using schumacher 's classification , we determined the prevalence rate of clinically definite multiple sclerosis ( ms ) in the distinct but tiny zoroastrian ( largely parsi ) community in the adjacent cities of bombay ( latitude , 18.55 degrees ) and poona ( pune ) . on prevalence day , 16 clinically definite cases of ms were counted , 14 in bombay and 2 in poona , from a total zoroastrian population of 50,053 and 3,399 , respectively . the crude prevalence ratio was 26 per 100,000 for bombay and 58 per 100,000 for poona . the age-adjusted prevalence ratio for bombay was 24 per 100,000 , with 95 % confidence limits of 13.1 to 40.3 . these are much higher than the low rates believed to be prevalent in india , and are comparable with those found in parts of europe and the united states . 
in vitro cultivation of cryptosporidium parvum and screening for anticryptosporidial drugs . sporozoites of cryptosporidium parvum which were excysted in vitro from oocysts isolated from calves or patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome underwent development in monolayers of the mouse fibroblast cell line l929 . asexual multiplication occurred , with the maximum numbers of parasites usually being observed between 24 and 48 h after infection . gametocytes were also found , but their numbers were relatively small compared with those of the asexual stages . a study was made of the effect on parasite development of 20 antimicrobial agents , most of which were anticoccidial or antimalarial agents . the majority of the drugs had a limited inhibitory effect on parasite development , but usually only at high concentrations . the two most active drugs were monensin and halofuginone , which reduced parasite multiplication by more than 90 % at high concentrations . in the case of monensin , however , inhibition of parasite development at higher concentrations was due , at least in part , to a toxic effect of the drug on the host cells . 
activities of clarithromycin , sulfisoxazole , and rifabutin against mycobacterium avium complex multiplication within human macrophages . the activities of clarithromycin , sulfisoxazole , and rifabutin against three virulent strains of mycobacterium avium complex isolated from patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome were evaluated in a model of intracellular infection . human monocyte-derived macrophages were infected at day 6 of culture with m. avium complex . intracellular bacteria were counted 60 min after inoculation . extra - and intracellular bacteria were counted at days 4 and 7 after inoculation . the concentrations used were 4 micrograms of clarithromycin per ml ( mics for the three strains , 4 , 4 , and 4 micrograms/ml ) , 50 micrograms of sulfisoxazole per ml ( mics , 50 , 25 , and 25 micrograms/ml ) , and 0.5 micrograms of rifabutin per ml ( mics , 2 , 0.5 , and 0.5 micrograms/ml ) . compared with controls , clarithromycin and rifabutin slowed the intracellular replication of the three strains ( at day 7 after inoculation , p was less than 0.01 for the first strain and less than 0.001 for the two others ) . sulfisoxazole was ineffective against the three strains . clarithromycin was as effective as rifabutin . clarithromycin plus rifabutin was as effective as each single agent . clarithromycin plus sulfisoxazole was as effective as clarithromycin alone . 
transfusion-associated graft-vs-host disease in patients with malignancies . report of two cases and review of the literature graft-vs-host disease can develop in immunosuppressed individuals who receive blood-product transfusions that contain immunocompetent lymphocytes . we report two cases of fatal transfusion-associated graft-vs-host disease that developed in patients with hodgkin 's disease who were undergoing therapy . we review all cases of this entity in patients with malignancies , represented predominantly by patients with hematologic malignancies . the groups at risk for development of transfusion-associated graft-vs-host disease , the clinical presentation and course , and methods of diagnosis are summarized . prevention of this highly fatal condition is possible by irradiation of blood products given to patients at risk , but problems remain in determining the groups that warrant such measures . dermatologists need to have heightened awareness of this entity to facilitate more complete diagnosis and allow establishment of effective standards of care . 
latent sensitisation to respiratory syncytial virus during acute bronchiolitis and lung function after recovery . to determine whether latent sensitivity to respiratory syncytial virus antigen ( s ) occurs after infection , 27 infants with acute bronchiolitis were studied and compared with 15 hospital controls . blood was collected for whole blood challenge , and histamine release was measured by a high performance liquid chromatography technique with fluorometric detection . there was a significantly greater histamine release to respiratory syncytial virus antigen ( s ) in those with bronchiolitis than in controls , expressed either in amount ( median 154 nmol/l compared with 104 nmol/l ) or percentage release ( median 20 % compared with 3 % ) . there was a significant difference between index and control groups in terms of individual histamine responses . these findings strongly suggest that infants develop latent sensitivity to respiratory syncytial virus antigen ( s ) during the course of acute bronchiolitis . serial lung function tests were performed in 15 infants . all infants had abnormalities of lung function at some stage , but the small numbers of subjects precluded comparison between ' sensitised ' and ' non-sensitised ' infants . further study is indicated to define the relation of latent sensitisation and subsequent bronchial hyper-responsiveness after respiratory syncytial virus infection in infants . 
spontaneous pneumothorax in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome treated with prophylactic aerosolized pentamidine . spontaneous pneumothorax is a known complication of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . to evaluate the possible pathogenesis and natural history of pneumothorax in patients receiving aerosolized pentamidine prophylaxis , we retrospectively reviewed 327 outpatients positive for human immunodeficiency virus receiving aerosolized pentamidine . there were 12 spontaneous pneumothoraces in this group of patients . seventy-five percent of patients with pneumothorax had roentgenographic evidence of fibrocystic lung parenchyma and clinical evidence of active pneumocystis pneumonia . the majority ( 83 % ) required chest tube evacuation . there was a 50 % mortality rate associated with this complication . these findings suggest that spontaneous pneumothorax in patients treated with aerosolized pentamidine most commonly represents a prophylaxis failure associated with a high mortality rate . 
desensitization in the management of vancomycin hypersensitivity . vancomycin is the preferred antimicrobial agent in the treatment of methicillin-resistant staphylococcal infections . one of the well-known hypersensitivity reactions to this agent is the " red-man syndrome , " which is believed to involve drug-induced histamine release in certain individuals . although rate and/or dose reductions may be effective in some cases , some hypersensitivity reactions necessitate the discontinuation of vancomycin . in this article one patient is described who developed vancomycin-associated reactions consistent with the red-man syndrome despite having tolerated vancomycin administration previously . this case was managed by sequential increments in vancomycin administration over several days that allowed for therapeutic doses of the drug to be administered . prior to desensitization , vancomycin administration at a lowered rate and dose was unsuccessfully attempted , despite the presence of combination antihistamine therapy . a loss of skin prick test reactivity to vancomycin was demonstrated after successful desensitization . this desensitization method may be useful in managing certain refractory cases of vancomycin hypersensitivity . 
functional assessment scales : a study of persons with multiple sclerosis . the purpose of this study was to investigate disability in persons with multiple sclerosis ( ms ) by using combinations of functional assessment scales and subscales to predict ( 1 ) the burden of care measured in minutes of assistance provided per day by another person in the home , and ( 2 ) the subject 's level of satisfaction with life in general . the functional independence measure ( fim ) , incapacity status scale , environmental status scale , and the barthel index had high intercorrelations with each other . although each was predictive of the ms subject 's physical care needs , the fim was the most useful . a change in total fim score of one point was equivalent to an average of 3.38 minutes of help from another person per day . with the brief symptom inventory and the environmental status scale , the fim contributed to predicting the patient 's general satisfaction as well . we propose that burden of care and subjective satisfaction with life be the standards by which functional assessment instruments are compared to reflect , in pragmatic terms , the impact of disability on the lives of individuals and on the human and economic resources of the community . 
no evidence for human t-cell leukemia virus type i or human t-cell leukemia virus type ii infection in patients with multiple sclerosis . the involvement of human t-cell leukemia viruses ( htlvs ) in the pathogenesis of 18 hungarian patients with multiple sclerosis was investigated . no antibody to htlvs could be detected in any of the patients . furthermore , using polymerase chain reaction under highly sensitive conditions , neither htlv-i dna nor htlv-ii dna could be noted in peripheral blood lymphocytes of the patients . our data do not support a causal association of htlv-i or htlv-ii with multiple sclerosis . 
failure to detect human t-cell leukemia virus-related sequences in multiple sclerosis blood . we tested 11 patients with multiple sclerosis for the presence of human t-cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-i ) - or type ii ( htlv-ii ) - related sequences . dna from blood mononuclear cells was analyzed by the polymerase chain reaction utilizing three different oligonucleotide primer pairs . two of these primer pairs detect sequences shared between htlv-i and htlv-ii in either p24 , gag protein , or in p21 , env transmembrane protein . the third primer pair was synthesized based on regions in the pol gene where amino acid sequences are conserved between htlv-i , htlv-ii , and the related bovine leukemia virus . the multiple sclerosis samples were consistently negative while appropriate control samples were positive . we conclude that viruses related to htlv-i , htlv-ii , or bovine leukemia virus are not present in the blood of patients with multiple sclerosis and , therefore , that htlv-bovine leukemia virus-related viruses are not likely to be involved in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis . 
echographic features of the vogt-koyanagi-harada syndrome . vogt-koyanagi-harada ( vkh ) syndrome represents a spectrum of bilateral panuveitis with associated central nervous system and dermatologic manifestations . the diagnosis is based on clinical and angiographic findings , but some of the characteristic features may be either absent or difficult to visualize in the presence of opaque media . with the use of standardized echography ( standardized a-scan and contact b-scan echography ) , we examined nine patients with clear media and clinical evidence of vkh syndrome . consistent echographic findings included ( 1 ) diffuse , low to medium reflective thickening of the choroid posteriorly ; ( 2 ) serous retinal detachment , located inferiorly or in the posterior pole ; ( 3 ) mild vitreous opacities with no posterior vitreous detachment ; and ( 4 ) thickening of the sclera and/or episclera posteriorly . resolution of these findings occurred with systemic corticosteroid therapy . standardized echography should be considered an important diagnostic tool in vkh syndrome , especially when visualization of the fundus is poor or when clinical presentation is atypical . 
major histocompatibility complex genes and susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematosus . susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematosus is associated with major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) -- encoded genes . we have used nucleotide sequence analysis to better define the disease-associated mhc alleles . hla-dr2 , dqw1 , and especially the rare allele dq beta 1 . azh confer high relative risk ( rr = 14 ) for lupus nephritis in a caucasian population of patients . pilot studies using historical controls suggest that these genes also confer a high risk in non-caucasian ethnic groups ( rr = 24-78 ) . we have found that dr4 is significantly decreased in patients with lupus nephritis . fifty percent of the patients with lupus nephritis had either the dq beta 1.1 , the dq beta 1 . azh , or the dq beta 1.9 alleles . these alleles share amino acid residues that have been predicted to be the contact points for antigen and the t cell receptor . these hla alleles appear to have a direct role in the predisposition to lupus nephritis , whereas dr4 may have a " protective " effect . 
binding of anti-dna antibodies and inhibition of glomerulonephritis in mrl-lpr/lpr mice by heparin . heparin was found to inhibit the dna binding of antibodies eluted from kidneys of both humans and mrl-lpr/lpr mice with systemic lupus erythematosus . treatment of mrl-lpr/lpr mice with low doses of heparin significantly inhibited renal damage . these results suggest that low-dose heparin might be useful in preventing renal damage in patients with lupus nephritis . 
pseudotumor of the craniocervical junction during long-term hemodialysis . a systematic study of the upper cervical spine was performed using magnetic resonance imaging in 25 patients ( 15 men and 10 women ) who had been undergoing hemodialysis for more than 10 years . seven pseudotumors of the periodontoid soft tissue were disclosed , which were similar to the pannus recently described in rheumatoid arthritis . bone cystic radiolucencies were observed in association with these pseudotumors in 5 patients . the radiolucencies were located in the atlas ( 1 in the lateral mass and 1 in the anterior branch ) and in the axis ( 3 in the odontoid process and 1 in the vertebral body ) . no horizontal or vertical atlantoaxial subluxation was demonstrated . these features were observed only in patients who had amyloid arthropathy . they could be a frequent , yet thus far little-recognized , feature of beta 2-microglobulin amyloidosis . 
human immunodeficiency virus-associated psoriasis , psoriatic arthritis , and reiter 's syndrome : a disease continuum ? the presence of peripheral arthritis and hla-a , b , c , dr , and dq antigens was evaluated prospectively in 18 caucasian men with human immunodeficiency virus-associated psoriasis . an asymmetric polyarthritis occurred in 32 % of the patients and correlated with the presence of hla-b27 . extensive clinical overlap between psoriatic arthritis , psoriasis , and reiter 's syndrome was noted . no significant excess of the hla antigens previously found to be associated with psoriasis was seen , which suggests that human immunodeficiency virus-associated psoriasis per se may instead constitute another form of spondylarthropathy that is more closely related to reiter 's syndrome . 
d-penicillamine-induced lupus erythematosus . we describe a patient who presented with polyarthritis , pleurisy , rash , and a positive antinuclear antibody result after 5 years of d-penicillamine therapy . d-penicillamine-induced antinuclear antibodies were mainly high-titer igg directed against the ( h2a-h2b ) - dna complex . weak igm activity with h1 and h2b was also observed . withdrawal of d-penicillamine therapy resulted in improvement in clinical symptoms and gradual resolution of serologic abnormalities . 
amyloidosis in behcet 's syndrome . we investigated the frequency of amyloidosis in 99 consecutive patients ( 65 men and 34 women ) with behcet 's syndrome . rectal biopsies performed on all patients showed no amyloidosis by polarizing microscopy . the results of urinalyses were normal in all patients . among 1,130 patients registered in our behcet 's syndrome outpatient clinic , 5 were found to have systemic amyloidosis , all of the aa type . 
a controlled trial of nebulized isoetharine in the prehospital treatment of acute asthma . acute asthma is a potentially life-threatening disorder , recognizable to the prehospital care provider . while therapies are available to the prehospital care provider for treating acute asthma , no previous controlled studies have been performed demonstrating the treatment in the field is efficacious and safe . the authors conducted a controlled trial of the prehospital use of nebulized isoetharine in an urban emergency medical services system . fifty-two patients with acute asthma were studied . patients were initially evaluated with a peak flow meter . half of the patients received isoetharine , while the control group received basic life support only . there was no difference in baseline values . peak expiratory flow increased from 138 l/min to 148 l/min in the control group , while it increased from 149 l/min to 218 l/min in the treatment group ( p less than .001 ) . the authors conclude that paramedic treatment of acute asthma with nebulized isoetharine is effective in improving pulmonary function and clinical status during transport . 
cytotoxic activity against hiv-infected monocytes by recombinant interleukin 2-activated natural killer cells . natural killer ( nk ) cells have long been known to aid in the control of viral infections by killing virus-infected cells , including those infected with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) . among the possible nk-susceptible target cells in an infected individual , the monocyte/macrophages are of special significance since they may serve as both a reservoir of hiv and aid in dissemination of the virus throughout the body . a new technique for the enrichment and cultivation of large numbers of recombinant interleukin 2 ( ril-2 ) - stimulated nk cells has been developed which provides cells with high cytotoxic activity . these il-2-activated nk cells , adherent lymphokine-activated killer cells ( a-lak ) , can kill monocytes infected with hiv for 24 h to 7 days , with optimal target sensitivity between 3 and 7 days . recognition and killing of the infected monocytes did not appear to be restricted by the major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) antigens and could be cold-target inhibited by tumor cell lines . a-lak cells may be useful in newer therapeutic approaches to treatment of hiv infection . 
macrophage tropism of hiv-1 . both in vivo and in vitro studies clearly demonstrate that cells of the mononuclear phagocyte lineage are major hosts for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) replication . presumably these cells play a key role in the pathogenesis of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . to further delineate the interactions between hiv-1 and host cells , the susceptibility and permissivity of normal human peripheral blood-derived monocyte/macrophages ( m/m ) and t lymphocytes , and neoplastic monocytoid and lymphoid cell lines to various hiv-1 isolates was assessed . the results suggest : ( 1 ) " fresh " isolates recovered from patients and propagated only in normal host cells exhibit a dual tropism for both m/m and t cells , regardless of their tissue of origin or the cell type from which they were isolated ; ( 2 ) the repeated passage of an hiv-1 isolate through normal m/m does not generally result in the loss of the ability to infect normal t cells nor vice versa ; ( 3 ) the majority of fresh hiv-1 isolates do not infect neoplastic cells of either origin , and those that do show no preference for monocytoid or lymphoid targets , regardless of their cell origin . 
characterization of a macrophage-tropic hiv strain that does not alter macrophage cytokine production yet protects macrophages from superinfection by vesicular stomatitis virus . macrophages , unlike cd4 + t cells , can be productively infected by human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) without prior cellular activation . cytopathic infection ensues without the induction of tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf alpha ) , interleukin 1 beta ( il-1 beta ) , interleukin 6 ( il-6 ) , or tissue factor genes . in detailed studies on tnf alpha , hiv infection did not affect the regulation of tnf alpha in response to bacterial lipopolysaccharide . in an effort to examine the interferon responsiveness of hiv-infected macrophages , the cells were challenged with vesicular stomatitis virus ( vsv ) with or without interferon pretreatment . surprisingly , hiv-infected macrophages were completely resistant to vsv-induced lysis even in the absence of interferon ; however , no interferon was detected in the supernatants of these infected cells . the resistance of hiv-infected macrophages to superinfection with vsv indicates a previously undescribed effect of hiv upon macrophage cellular metabolism . 
full-length recombinant cd4 and recombinant gp120 inhibit fusion between hiv infected macrophages and uninfected cd4-expressing t-lymphoblastoid cells . human immunodeficiency virus - ( hiv ) infected monocyte-macrophages may contribute to the pathogenesis of hiv-associated immune deficiency and dysfunction by acting as a target and potential reservoir for the virus in vivo , and by functioning abnormally following infection . we have shown that hiv-infected macrophages fuse with uninfected cd4-expressing lymphoid cells in vitro ; this may provide an additional mechanism for cd4 lymphocyte depletion in vivo . we report here the inhibition of syncytium formation between hiv-infected macrophages and uninfected cd4-expressing t-lymphoid cells by monoclonal antibody s3 .5 , directed against an epitope of cd4 involved in binding hiv gp120 , by a recombinant protein that comprises the full-length extracellular domain of the cd4 molecule , and by recombinant full-length hiv envelope glycoprotein , gp120 . these results indicate that both molecules ( gp120 and cd4 ) are critical to the fusion process , and suggest that gp120 is expressed on the surface of hiv-infected monocyte-macrophages . 
effects of glq223 on hiv replication in human monocyte/macrophages chronically infected in vitro with hiv . glq223 is a formulated version of tricosanthin , a single-chain ribosome-inactivating protein that was shown in earlier studies to inhibit human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) replication in t-lymphoblastoid cells and to decrease hiv p24 levels in hiv-infected monocyte-derived macrophages as measured by flow cytometry . the current studies were performed to test the selectivity of the observed inhibitory effects on hiv replication in chronically infected macrophages infected in vitro . peripheral blood-derived monocyte/macrophages were infected in vitro and cultivated in suspension for at least two weeks prior to glq223 treatment . anti-hiv effects were quantitated by measurement of cytoplasmic hiv p24 , by both enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) and flow cytometry and hiv rna levels were measured by slot blot analysis . incorporation of [ 3h ] leucine into trichloroacetic acid - ( tca ) precipitable protein was also evaluated as an index of nonspecific inhibitory effects mediated by the compound in infected and uninfected cultures . five days after a single 3-h treatment with glq223 there was a concentration-dependent decrease in all measurable hiv parameters within infected cultures . the anti-hiv effects persisted at least 28 days without evidence for increasing hiv expression . glq223 treatment of parallel uninfected macrophage cultures showed no significant inhibition of tritiated leucine uptake . these experiments demonstrate that a single pulsed exposure with glq223 of macrophages infected with hiv in vitro caused a sustained , concentration-dependent decrease in both hiv p24 antigen levels as well as hiv rna without causing measurable toxicity in uninfected cultures . 
ability of anti-hiv agents to inhibit hiv replication in monocyte/macrophages or u937 monocytoid cells under conditions of enhancement by gm-csf or anti-hiv antibody . monocyte/macrophages ( m/m ) are an important target cell for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection in the body . the study of hiv infection in these cells , however , is rather complicated because they represent a variable population , and because hiv entry and replication in m/m may be markedly influenced by a number of factors . these must be considered in therapeutic approaches to hiv infection . in the present set of experiments , we studied the interaction between certain agents which increase the infection of monocyte/macrophages ( m/m ) by hiv and two groups of anti-hiv agents : dideoxynucleosides and specific inhibitors of gp120-cd4 binding . we found that the cytokine granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) , which markedly enhances hiv replication in m/m , does not affect the activity of recombinant soluble cd4 ( scd4 ) or okt4a , two agents which block gp120-cd4 binding . however , it had varying effects on different dideoxynucleosides : gm-csf increased the net anti-hiv activity of 3 ' - azido2 ' ,3 ' - dideoxythymidine ( azt ) , while at the same time it reduced the activity of 2 ' ,3 ' - dideoxycytidine ( ddc ) and 2 ' ,3 ' - dideoxyinosine ( ddi ) . these effects probably represent an interplay between varying effects of gm-csf on drug entry and phosphorylation . in additional experiments , we showed that very low concentrations of anti-hiv antibodies could enhance hiv infection of the u937 monocytoid cell line . interestingly , while this effect has been hypothesized to occur through a cd4-independent mechanism , we found that the anti-hiv activities of both scd4 and okt4a were unchanged under conditions of enhancement . 
role of the monocyte-macrophage in influenza virus infection of lymphocytes : implications for hiv infection . knowledge of the pathogenesis of viruses which are less virulent than human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) may provide valuable insights into the pathogenesis of hiv infection . influenza virus , an enveloped rna virus , infects monocyte-macrophages , although the infection is brief and abortive . isolated purified lymphocytes are completely resistant to infection . in contrast , mixtures of lymphocytes and macrophages can synthesize all virus proteins . infection requires physical association of monocyte-macrophages and lymphocytes in " clusters . " these studies with influenza virus suggest that the pathogenesis of virus infections in mixed cell cultures may be very different from that observed in purified cell populations , and they suggest that similar studies should be performed with hiv . 
macrophages as susceptible targets for hiv infection , persistent viral reservoirs in tissue , and key immunoregulatory cells that control levels of virus replication and extent of disease . although macrophages are major targets for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection in vivo , study of hiv-macrophage interactions in vitro was hindered because many laboratory strains of hiv would not replicate in macrophages , and because survival of macrophages in culture was poor . addition of purified macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( m-csf ) to cultured macrophages markedly improves their survival , but does not induce proliferation . hiv isolates that replicate in macrophages will also replicate in lymphocytes ; however , isolates adapted to lymphoid cells ( such as hiv-htlviiib ) will not replicate in macrophages . the envelope gene appears to be a major determinant of the cell tropism of viral isolates . t-cell grown virus stocks synthesize abundant gp120 , while virus grown in macrophages contains relatively much less gp120 . electron microscopy of virions from macrophages shows them to be depleted of gp120 surface " spikes . " recombination studies show that the portion of the genome coding for the envelope glycoprotein appears to determine cell tropism . lastly , rscd4 neutralized macrophage-tropic isolates less efficiently than t-cell tropic isolates . hiv replication in macrophages is partially under the control of cellular factors , although these have been less well characterized than they have in lymphocytes . 
the effect of interleukin 4 ( bsf-1 ) on infection of peripheral blood monocyte-derived macrophages with hiv-1 . the effects of various cytokines were examined in an in vitro model of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) infection of human peripheral blood monocyte-derived macrophages ( mdm ) . monocytes were obtained from blood of normal donors by ficoll/hypaque gradient centrifugation and adherence . these cells were allowed to mature in the presence of varying concentrations of cytokines . after five days in culture , cells were harvested , counted , and inoculated with s5g7 , an htlv-iiib subclone . the cells were replated in the presence of the same concentrations of cytokines . culture supernatants were sampled over 28 days for p24 antigen ( ag ) as measured by ag capture assay . in repeat experiments , the following observations were made : 1 . mdm from some donors could be infected only in the presence of tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) , granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) or interleukin 4 ( il-4 ) ; 2 . the effect of gm-csf was variable ; tnf alpha also enhanced hiv replication above controls ; 3 . il-4 was the most potent enhancer of hiv-1 replication in mdm of the cytokines tested , inducing p24 ag levels 75-230 times those seen in control cultures run simultaneously . this effect was dose dependent . ag production was not observed until day 14 postinfection in most experiments . multinucleated giant cell formation was observed only in the presence of il-4 . 
characterization of the in vitro maturation of monocytes and the susceptibility to hiv infection . the in vitro maturation of peripheral blood monocytes to macrophages can be followed morphologically , and by measurement of cell surface antigens ( cd4 , hla-dr , and fcr iii ) and lysozyme production . we used these markers to correlate monocyte maturation with susceptibility to human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . maturation of peripheral blood monocytes is associated with a decrease in membrane cd4 , while hla-dr and fcr iii expression increase along with lysozyme secretion . cells at all stages of maturation were susceptible to hiv infection , even mature macrophages without cd4 detectably by immunofluorescent staining . maximal replication was observed in 7-day-old cells . 
hiv-1 infection of lung alveolar fibroblasts and macrophages in humans . we have studied the infected cell populations in the lungs of four human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) seropositive patients suffering from lymphocytic alveolitis or lymphocytic interstitial pneumonitis . adherent cells were obtained by bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) and were analyzed by various technical approaches . the cells considered here were alveolar macrophages and fibroblasts , and could be clearly identified morphologically and by the expression of specific cell-surface markers using monoclonal antibodies . the presence of hiv-1 in both of these cell types was established by serological , virological , and molecular procedures . our results show that alveolar macrophages and fibroblasts are naturally infected in the lungs of hiv + patients . both cell types express the cd4 receptor molecule , in contrast to skin fibroblasts which are negative . alveolar macrophages and fibroblasts thus may act as eventual hiv-1 reservoirs in vivo , and are probably involved in the induction of inflammatory reactions because they are targets for cd8 cytotoxic t lymphocytes ( ctl ) . 
fcr-mediated enhancement of hiv-1 infection by antibody . although cd4 is a major receptor for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection of cells , studied by ourselves and others clearly show that the fc receptor ( fcr ) also plays a role in infection , perhaps in conjunction with other surface receptors . igg antibodies to hiv-1 will enhance infectivity in cells ( such as monocyte-macrophages ) that have surface fc receptors ; f ( ab ' ) 2 fragments of antibodies did not enhance , and blocking of fcr inhibited enhancement . the high-affinity fcr for igg ( fc gamma ri ) appeared to be functional . sera from hiv-1-infected patients had neutralizing activity at high concentrations , but enhanced infection at low concentrations ( i.e. , high dilutions ) . our studies show that the cd4 receptor is required for antibody-mediated enhancement of infection , as enhancement can be blocked by recombinant soluble cd4 and by leu3 antibody . although enhancement can be demonstrated in vitro , the in vivo importance of enhancing antibodies remains to be defined in hiv-1 infection . 
rash after treatment with anistreplase . a palpable purpura developed on the legs and lower abdomen of a woman of 54 five days after she was treated with anistreplase anisoylated plasminogen streptokinase activator complex ( apsac ) for an acute myocardial infarction . histological examination of a skin biopsy specimen taken 6 days after treatment showed leucocytoclastic vasculitis . the rash resolved within two weeks and there were no other complications . 
shared idiotype expression by chronic lymphocytic leukemia and b-cell lymphoma . antiidiotype ( id ) antibodies identify unique determinants within the surface immunoglobulin ( ig ) that are present on b-cell tumors . anti-ids have been used for diagnosis and therapy of b-cell lymphoma and leukemia . a panel of 29 anti-id monoclonal antibodies ( moabs ) that recognize shared idiotypes ( sids ) on b-cell lymphomas was tested for reactivity with both b-cell leukemias and lymphomas . ten of 40 ( 25 % ) cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( cll ) reacted with at least one of the 29 anti-sid moabs . three cases reacted with more than one anti-sid moab , but there was no repetitive pattern of a single anti-sid moab reacting with a large proportion of cll cases . in contrast , for b-cell lymphoma , in which 11 of 31 ( 36 % ) cases reacted , one anti-sid ( b4-1 ) reacted with five of the positive cases ; all were diffuse histology . restricted anti-sid reactivity may lead to important insights into the etiology of certain b-cell lymphomas . in addition , these anti-sids may obviate the need to develop " tailor-made " antibodies for individual patients . 
allogeneic marrow transplantation in patients with acute myeloid leukemia in first remission : a randomized trial of two irradiation regimens a randomized trial of 12.0 gy versus 15.75 gy of total body irradiation ( tbi ) was performed in patients with acute myeloid leukemia undergoing allogeneic marrow transplantation while in first complete remission . all patients received 120 mg/kg cyclophosphamide followed by tbi and marrow from hla-identical siblings . cyclosporine and methotrexate were used for prophylaxis against acute graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) . thirty-four patients received 2.0-gy fractions of irradiation daily for 6 days and 37 received 2.25-gy fractions daily for 7 days . the 3-year actuarial probabilities for relapse-free survival were 0.58 for the patients who received 12.0 gy and 0.59 for those who received 15.75 gy . the 3-year probabilities of relapse were 0.35 for the 12.0 gy group and 0.12 for the 15.75 gy group ( p = .06 ) . the 3-year probabilities of transplant-related mortality were 0.12 and 0.32 , respectively ( p = .04 ) . the probability of moderate to severe acute gvhd was 0.21 for the 12.0 gy group and 0.48 for the 15.75 gy group ( p = .02 ) . patients exposed to the higher irradiation dose received less immunoprophylaxis against , and had a higher incidence of , acute gvhd . the increased dose of tbi significantly reduced the probability of relapse but did not improve survival because of increased mortality from causes other than relapse . 
zidovudine ( retrovir ) update . zidovudine ( azt ) is the first antiretroviral agent to be licensed for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . since the initial placebo-controlled trial showing improved survival among patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) or symptomatic hiv infection ( aids-related complex [ arc ] ) zidovudine has been evaluated in other stages of hiv infection . this review offers physicians who treat patients with hiv infection a comprehensive analysis of the current data on the clinical efficacy of zidovudine in various stages of hiv infection and on zidovudine 's adverse effects . after a search of medline for pertinent articles published since 1985 , controlled studies and studies of long-term zidovudine therapy , of zidovudine therapy for hiv-related conditions and of the incidence and management of adverse reactions were evaluated . in addition , abstracts from international meetings were reviewed . no significant difference in clinical outcome was found between high-dose and low-dose zidovudine therapy , but there were significantly fewer toxic effects in the low-dose group . in two other studies zidovudine was found to delay disease progression in patients with asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic hiv infection who had an absolute cd4 count of less than 0.5 x 10 ( 9 ) / l ; the low incidence of adverse reactions may have been due to either the early stage of the infection or the low dose used . the demonstration of zidovudine-resistant isolates after at least 6 months of therapy has yet to be correlated with clinical deterioration . when to begin zidovudine therapy among asymptomatic patients with a cd4 count of less than 0.5 x 10 ( 9 ) / l remains unclear . zidovudine can be used safely to delay progression to aids or arc in certain patients with asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic hiv infection and can prolong survival in those with more severe infection . further studies are necessary to identify indicators that could better define when to start treatment and how to alleviate toxic effects . combination therapy with such agents as interferon alpha may become the preferred choice of therapy to prevent toxic effects and zidovudine resistance . zidovudine prophylaxis has been used after hiv exposure . although studies with animal models have had encouraging results infection has occurred despite immediate prophylaxis and thus further investigation is required . 
an anonymous seroprevalence survey of hiv infection among pregnant women in british columbia and the yukon territory we performed an anonymous seroprevalence survey of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) type 1 infection through hiv antibody testing of blood samples from 22,512 women aged 15 to 44 years receiving prenatal care in british columbia and the yukon territory from mar . 15 to sept . 30 , 1989 . of the samples six were confirmed to be hiv positive ; this yielded a crude overall seroprevalence rate of 2.7 per 10,000 pregnant women ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] 1.0 to 5.8 ) . all of the positive samples were from women 20 to 29 years of age ; four were from vancouver , one was from victoria , and one was from elsewhere . the highest seroprevalence rates were among women aged 15 to 29 years in vancouver and victoria ( 7.2 and 9.4 per 10,000 pregnant women respectively ) . thus , 1 in 1300 pregnant women in that age group in the metropolitan areas of british columbia was hiv positive . application of seroprevalence rates to the total female population in british columbia and the yukon territory revealed that as many as 401 women had hiv infection in 1989 . our estimates likely represent the minimum . as a subset of women of childbearing age pregnant women are likely at lowest risk of hiv infection , and so the true number of women 15 to 44 years of age with hiv infection is probably several times higher . our study has provided a baseline assessment and will be repeated annually to analyse trends in hiv seroprevalence among pregnant women in british columbia and the yukon territory . 
hiv infection among quebec women giving birth to live infants this is the first anonymous unlinked seroprevalence study in canada to use serum samples from newborns to determine the seroprevalence rate of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection among childbearing women . of the 68,808 samples tested 42 were confirmed as positive , for an overall crude seroprevalence rate of 6.1 per 10,000 live births ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] 4.4 to 8.3 ) , or 1 woman in 1638 . women who lived on montreal island had an overall rate of 17.9 per 10,000 live births ( 95 % ci 12.2 to 25.4 ) , or 1 woman in 559 . we observed a significant association between revenue index and seroprevalence ; the rates were as high as 46.4 per 10,000 live births ( 95 % ci 18.7 to 95.3 ) , or 1 woman in 216 , for montreal island postal code areas with revenue indexes 20 % or more below the provincial median . extrapolation of the data suggested that 56 women with hiv infection gave birth to a live infant during 1989 in quebec . even though attempts to generalize the data from childbearing women to women of childbearing age have an inherent conservative bias , the results of our study suggest that 988 women ( 95 % ci 713 to 1336 ) aged 15 to 44 years in quebec had hiv infection in 1989 . the actual number is likely substantially higher . the need for well-designed , creative interventions to prevent further hiv transmission to women is evident . planning for the provision of medical and psychosocial services sensitive to specific needs of women who are already infected should start immediately . 
a phase i study of a new cisplatin derivative for hematologic malignancies . dwa2114r ( dwa ) is a new derivative of platin compounds that is currently being used in phase ii studies of solid tumors in japan . the dose-limiting factor is myelotoxicity with mild extramedullary toxicity . this phase i study consisted of adult patients with relapsed hematologic malignancies . eight patients received a total of 15 treatment courses of dwa . the starting dose was 800 mg/m2 over 24 hours by continuous infusion . the dose was first increased to 1200 mg/m2 and then to 1600 mg/m2 . clinical toxicity and urinary excretion studies of dwa suggested that 1200 mg/m2/d for successive days would be the best type of administration . when 1200 mg/m2/d was given for 5 days , grade 2 to 3 diarrhea and nausea and vomiting were encountered requiring parenteral fluids and nutritional support . this suggested that the dose-limiting factor with this schedule was gastrointestinal toxicity . myelotoxicity was severe , as expected , but tolerable . one of the five patients with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia ( anll ) entered into complete remission and one patient with chronic myelogenous leukemia ( cml ) in crisis returned to the chronic phase . a phase ii trial of dwa is warranted for hematologic malignancies , especially in myeloid diseases . 
the world health organization 's histologic classification of gastrointestinal tumors . a commentary on the second edition . the world health organization 's ( who ) histologic classification of gastrointestinal tumors has been revised . although the general basis of classification and the overall outline remain similar to the first edition , advances in the last decade justified changes in classifying certain entities ; among them were malignant lymphomas , endocrine tumors , and dysplasias . several newly recognized entities have also been added . 
nasal lymphoma . a retrospective analysis of 60 cases . sixty cases of nasal lymphomas were reviewed . there were 42 men and 18 women . the median age was 49 years . the histologic types were low grade in four cases , intermediate grade in 33 , high grade in seven , and unclassifiable in 16 . thirteen cases had features of polymorphic reticulosis . the immunophenotype was available in 18 cases and a majority of 67 % of them were t-cell . forty-one of them ( 68 % ) had clinically localized ( stage i and ii ) disease which often spread locally to neighboring tissues and they presented predominantly with nasal symptoms . nasal lymphoma appeared to carry a poor prognosis . although our patients with clinically localized disease had significantly better prognosis than those with advanced disease , the 5-year survival of stage i and ii patients was only 55 % . chemotherapy did not appear to be more effective than radiotherapy alone in preventing relapses but the patient number was too small to allow a firm conclusion to be made . patients with advanced disease had even poorer prognosis with a 5-year survival of only 17 % . innovative therapy has to be developed for these patients . 
treatment of the acquired immune deficiency syndrome-related kaposi 's sarcoma with bleomycin as a single agent . a nonrandomized trial was conducted to assess the efficiency and toxicity of bleomycin as a single agent in treatment of non-life-threatening aids-related kaposi 's sarcoma ( ks ) . sixty patients were enrolled in this study . they all had a disseminated and progressive non-life-threatening aids-related ks associated with systemic symptoms and/or cd4 lymphocyte count less than 400/mm3 . thirty patients were treated with intramuscular bleomycin ( 5 mg/d for 3 days every 2 or 3 weeks ) and 30 others with a slow continuous intravenous infusion of bleomycin ( 6 mg/m3/d for 4 days every 4 weeks ) . the mean duration of therapy was 5 months ( range , 2 to 24 months ) . a partial response was observed in 29 patients ( 48.3 % ) and the disease was stabilized in 18 additional patients ( 30 % ) . bleomycin failed in 21.6 % of patients . therapy had to be discontinued in two patients because of side effects . thus bleomycin as a single agent is a good alternative therapy for aids-related ks . 
a randomized comparison of methotrexate dose and the addition of bleomycin to chop therapy for diffuse large cell lymphoma and other non-hodgkin 's lymphomas . cancer and leukemia group b study 7851 . in 1978 , cancer and leukemia group b initiated a randomized study to determine the usefulness of the addition of bleomycin and/or high-dose methotrexate to standard therapy for the treatment of certain adult non-hodgkin 's lymphomas . between 1978 and 1985 , 177 patients with diffuse large cell lymphoma ( dlcl ) and 97 patients with other intermediate-grade non-hodgkin 's lymphoma were randomized to receive therapy with three courses of cyclophosphamide , adriamycin , vincristine , and prednisone ( chop ) every 3 weeks with or without low-dose bleomycin by continuous iv infusion . responders after three courses were further randomized to 3 weeks of therapy with either high-dose methotrexate ( 3 gm/m2/week intravenously with leucovorin rescue ) or standard-dose methotrexate ( 30 mg/m2/week orally without rescue ) . therapy was concluded with three additional courses of chop . neither the addition of low-dose infusion bleomycin nor the use of high-dose rather than low-dose methotrexate had significant effects on response for patients with dlcl ; complete response rates for the four treatment programs ranged from 47 % to 51 % . median failure-free survival ( ffs ) for the entire group of dlcl patients was 12 months ; 5-year ffs was 27 % . there was no significant effect on ffs from the addition of either low-dose bleomycin to chop ( 5-year ffs : chop , 28 % ; chop-b , 26 % , p = 0.81 ) , or from the use of different doses of methotrexate ( 5-year ffs : high-dose , 34 % ; standard-dose , 33 % , p = 0.51 ) . patients with follicular large cell lymphoma , with or without diffuse areas , had a better ffs ( 5-year ffs , 47 % ) than patients with dlcl ( 5-year ffs , 27 % ) , while the patients with the other histopathologic subtypes of diffuse lymphomas had the poorest ffs ( 5-year ffs , 16 % ) . 
perinatal infection of human t-lymphotropic virus type i , the etiologic virus of adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma . dna amplification of specific human t-lymphotropic virus type i sequences . a gene amplification technique , polymerase chain reaction , was used to detect human t-lymphotropic virus type i ( htlv-i ) , the etiologic agent of adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma , in mononuclear cells in peripheral blood and breast milk of ten htlv-i carrier gravida . the dna in umbilical cord blood mononuclear cells of the neonates born to the htlv-i carrier gravida were also amplified and examined for the possibility of htlv-i infection via placenta during pregnancy . the htlv-i sequences were detected both in the peripheral blood and milk of all ten carrier gravida by southern blot analysis of amplified dna . however , htlv-i proviral dna could not be detected in the cord blood of the carriers ' neonates , indicating that transplacental infection of htlv-i should be rare and that postpartum infection via breast milk is a likely major perinatal transmission route . 
immune deficiency in family members of patients with hodgkin 's disease . indirect data supporting a preexisting immunologic impairment in patients with hodgkin 's disease ( hd ) have been presented in recent years . these immunologic defects are supposed to be related to genetic and/or environmental factors . in this study , 65 first-degree relatives and 12 spouses of 21 consecutive patients with hd were studied immunologically . furthermore , seven twin pairs in which one partner had hd and four additional nonmatched healthy co-twins were also included in the study . a decreased lymphocyte dna synthesis induced by concanavalin a , a high spontaneous dna synthesis , or a low cd4 + / 8 + ratio was found in 21 ( 32 % ) consanguineous , two ( 17 % ) nonconsanguineous relatives , and five ( 50 % ) healthy co-twins . the corresponding figures for the untreated patients with hd and the control series were 14 of 21 ( 65 % ) and 21 of 127 ( 16 % ) , respectively . total lymphocyte counts or lymphocyte subpopulations did not differ between hd relatives and controls . the increased frequency of blood lymphocyte defects among consanguineous first-degree relatives favors the existence of a genetically determined immune deficiency in at least a proportion of apparently healthy relatives of patients with hd . however , nongenetic factors such as age and environment may add to the defect . 
non-hodgkin 's lymphoma in the elderly . i. pathologic features at presentation . the pathologic findings of 118 patients aged 70 years or older with non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( nhl ) are reported . these patients formed 27.2 % of 433 consecutive cases of nhl seen in a single institution over a 5-year period . thirty-one of 433 nhl cases were histologically not classified , whereas the remaining 402 could be classified according to the international working formulation ( wf ) of nhl for clinical usage . immunophenotypic analyses were carried out in 112 nhl cases ; of this group 28 were nhl in elderly patients . of the 95 elderly nhl that could be classified in the histologic categories of the wf 28 cases were in the low-grade , 41 in the intermediate-grade , and 26 in the high-grade categories . eighty-one cases had diffuse histologic types and 14 had follicular/nodular histologic types . thirty-five cases were of the g ( diffuse large cell ) + h ( large cell , immunoblastic ) categories . no significant differences in the prevalence of the different subtypes were observed among patients younger or older than 70 years . immunohistologically , most nhl cases in the elderly expressed b-cell phenotype . sixty-two nhl in the elderly were extranodal at presentation . the results of this study indicate that elderly patients form a relevant proportion of patients developing nhl and thereby present a very difficult management problem . the pathologic features of nhl in the elderly does not differ significantly from those of their younger counterparts , although an increase in diffuse versus follicular histologic patterns , and in extranodal versus nodal disease was observed with advancing age . 
diffuse intermediate lymphocytic lymphoma . a clinicopathologic study and comparison with small lymphocytic lymphoma and diffuse small cleaved cell lymphoma . controversy has recently arisen as to whether diffuse intermediate lymphocytic lymphoma ( ill ) should be considered a low-grade or an intermediate-grade non-hodgkin 's lymphoma for clinical purposes . therefore , the authors performed a clinicopathologic study to determine the biologic course of diffuse ill ( 40 cases ) and compared it with small lymphocytic lymphoma ( sll ; 51 cases ) and diffuse small cleaved cell lymphoma ( dsccl ; 14 cases ) . they found that patients with diffuse ill having pseudofollicular proliferation centers ( pc ) had a significantly longer median survival ( 84 months ) than those without pc ( 46.5 months ; p = 0.03 ) . the median survival of patients with sll was 72 months , whereas those with dsccl had a median survival of only 18 months . based on these findings , the authors conclude that diffuse ill with pc should be included in the low-grade category of sll for clinical purposes , whereas diffuse ill without pc ( true diffuse ill ) should be considered an intermediate-grade non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . true diffuse ill is similar to centrocytic lymphoma in the kiel classification and should be accorded a similar status in a modified working formulation . 
diffuse proliferative lupus nephritis : long-term observations in patients treated with ancrod . twenty-two patients with histologically demonstrated diffuse proliferative lupus nephritis ( dpln ) and glomerular thrombosis received a 14-day course of ancrod , followed in most by nitrogen mustard ( mechlorethamine hydrochloride ) 0.4 mg/kg . many were referred when renal function was deteriorating despite large doses of prednisone . the patients had severe disease ; there was a high degree of glomerular sclerosis ; the median serum creatinine was 137 mumol/l , the diastolic blood pressure 101 mm hg . reported previously was a short-term improvement in renal function , blood pressure , and renal histology . reported here is the long-term follow-up on all 22 patients for an average of 58 months . three died of causes other than renal failure . eleven developed end-stage renal disease an average of 27 months after ancrod treatment . the other 8 are alive with no deterioration of renal function after an average of 70 months . this outcome seems satisfactory when disease severity is taken into consideration . factors present at treatment start that might be associated with subsequent renal function deterioration were : prior prolonged prednisone treatment , extensive glomerular sclerosis , high plasma alpha 2-antiplasmin and possibly triglycerides . during the follow-up period after completion of treatment , later relapses of sle and dpln appeared to be an important predictor of deterioration of renal function . 
membranous glomerulonephritis induced by 2-mercaptopropionylglycine ( 2-mpg ) . thirty-two patients suffering from cystinuria were treated with 2-mercaptopropionylglycine ( 2-mpg ) for 0.5-10 years ( average 6.3 years ) . after 4-14 months of treatment at daily doses ranging from 500 to 2500 mg , three patients developed slight to moderate proteinuria . two patients were subjected to renal biopsy which showed membranous glomerulonephritis . in one biopsy signs of progressive glomerular lesions were observed . in seven patients ( 22 % ) antinuclear antibodies were demonstrated . in one patient with biopsy-proven membranous glomerulonephritis , the antinuclear antibodies consisted of antihistone antibodies . the observations presented in this report indicate that 2-mpg , like d-penicillamine , could induce autoimmune reactions , in some cases leading to membranous glomerulonephritis . the prognosis seemed to be favorable . however , the occurrence of irreversible glomerular lesions as reported by us should be borne in mind when considering long-term treatment with 2-mpg . a continuous , close follow-up of patients on 2-mpg treatment is recommended . 
sle nephritis : an ultrastructural immunogold study to evaluate the relationship between immune complexes and the basement membrane components type iv collagen , fibronectin and heparan sulphate proteoglycans . the nature of immune complexes and their relationship to the normal glomerular basement membrane ( gbm ) components type iv collagen , fibronectin , and heparan sulphate proteoglycans ( hspg ) have been examined in the glomeruli of 7 cases of systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) glomerulonephritis using an ultrastructural immunogold technique . in paraformaldehyde-fixed , lowicryl resin-embedded tissue , the electron-dense deposits contained igg , igm , iga , and c3 whether they were subepithelial , intramembranous , subendothelial , or mesangial and there was no particular relationship between the class of immunoglobulin and site of immune complex localization within the glomerulus . the normal gbm components type iv collagen , fibronectin , and hspg were found within all the glomeruli , but did not have the same distribution . type iv collagen and fibronectin were found predominantly on the inner aspect of the gbm and diffusely throughout the more central regions of the mesangial matrix . by contrast the hspg was seen mainly on the outer aspect of the gbm and at the periphery of the mesangial matrix . in none of the cases were gbm antigens localized within the electron-dense deposits , results which suggest that autoantibodies to these gbm components may not play a role in the development of the glomerulonephritis . 
anaphylactic shock associated with chymopapain skin test . a case report and review of the literature . the allergic response to chymopapain intradiscal therapy has been well documented . the most serious of these reactions is anaphylactic shock , which may result in death . various screening methods , including skin tests , have been proposed to identify susceptible patients . anaphylactic shock occurred in a 40-year-old woman from application of the screening skin test . appropriate therapeutic intervention should be readily accessible when this test is performed . 
htlv-i viral-associated myelopathy after blood transfusion in a multiple trauma patient . this may be the first documented case in the united states and in the orthopedic literature of transfusion-transmitted human t-cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-i ) - associated myelopathy ( ham ) . progressive myelopathy occurred in a 58-year-old white man with serologic and molecular evidence of htlv-i infection after multiple trauma and subsequent transfusion with multiple units of banked blood products . symptoms of myelopathy occurred 15 months after the transfusions . myelopathy from htlv-i infection simulates a disorder of orthopedic interest . physicians should be aware of the symptoms of ham and unexplained myelopathy . 
monitoring glucocorticoid therapy : a pharmacokinetic approach . although glucocorticoid therapy is essential for the treatment of severe inflammatory disorders , there is no systematic approach to patient variables that may affect availability of a steroid dose . after the development of a data base of pharmacokinetic parameters , we examined glucocorticoid pharmacokinetics in 54 patients between 2 and 70 years of age using 70 pharmacokinetic studies after administration of intravenous methylprednisolone ( n = 25 ) , oral methylprednisolone ( n = 15 ) , intravenous prednisolone ( n = 18 ) , and oral prednisone ( n = 12 ) . eleven patients had unusually rapid methylprednisolone elimination ( clearance , 565 to 837 ml/min/1 .73 m2 ; population mean , [ + / - sd ] 380 + / - 100 ml/min/1 .73 m2 ) without an identifiable cause . incomplete absorption of methylprednisolone and prednisone was observed in three patients and one patient , respectively . evaluation of glucocorticoid pharmacokinetics in children aged 1 year 8 months to 18 years demonstrated a significant inverse correlation ( r = 0.88 ; p less than 0.001 ) between prednisolone clearance and age . it is therefore important to consider age in the interpretation of pharmacokinetic data . to simplify measurement of prednisolone clearance , a single-dose single-point method was developed . this was based on a highly significant relationship between the 6-hour postdose prednisolone concentration and prednisolone clearance ( log prednisolone clearance = 2.66 + [ 6-hour postdose concentration ] [ -0.00167 ] ; r2 = 0.96 ; p less than 0.0001 ) . evaluation of glucocorticoid pharmacokinetics in the clinical setting can be used to identify abnormalities in absorption , elimination , and patient compliance . this technique can be used to individualize glucocorticoid dosing regimens . 
effect of facial cooling on mucosal blood flow in the mouth in humans . 1 . to determine the effects of facial cooling on intraoral thermal events , we placed a thermal conductivity sensor on the buccal surface of the left cheek in six normal and six asthmatic subjects . room temperature and cold stimuli were then applied to the integument surface of both sides of the face while mucosal surface temperature and thermal conductivity , as an index of blood flow , were recorded . 2 . the room temperature challenge had no effect . application of the cold stimulus to the exterior of the left cheek caused a monotonic decrease in temperature in the mouth in all subjects and was associated with a change in thermal conductivity in which blood flow increased and then fell to baseline despite a continued drop in temperature . these responses were purely local in that cooling of the right side of the face did not change the temperature or blood flow on the left side . no differences were noted between the asthmatic and normal subjects . 3 . the data indicate that lowering the temperature of the skin of the face produces significant alterations in the thermal environment within the mouth . with facial cooling , buccal temperature falls and mucosal blood supply transiently rises . this effect appears to be a purely local thermally mediated event . facial pressure and cutaneous reflexes do not play a role . the above changes may contribute to the conditioning of inspired air during oral breathing . 
undiagnosed tuberculosis in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection we describe the clinical features of 11 patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection in whom tuberculosis was undiagnosed and untreated prior to death . most patients ( 9 of 11 ) had pulmonary complaints and 8 of 11 had roentgenographic findings suggestive of tuberculosis ( hilar or mediastinal adenopathy , pleural effusion , apical infiltrate or miliary pattern ) . despite these findings , tuberculin skin tests were not performed in any of the patients . acid-fast smears of sputum were obtained in three cases and bronchoscopy performed in only four , reflecting the low index of suspicion for tuberculosis . pneumocystis carinii pneumonia was the presumptive diagnosis in nine cases but was confirmed in only one case . autopsy revealed tuberculosis as the cause of death in four patients . of the seven patients who did not undergo autopsy , disseminated tuberculosis , manifest by mycobacteremia , was the only life-threatening illness identified and probably contributed to death . increased awareness of the clinical and roentgenographic features of tuberculosis in hiv-infected patients , combined with more intensive use of acid-fast smears and tuberculin skin testing , are necessary in order to decrease mortality from this treatable complication of hiv-infection . 
pulmonary manifestations of disseminated cryptococcosis in patients with aids . forty-eight patients with disseminated cryptococcosis and aids were retrospectively studied to define the pulmonary manifestations . cryptococcus neoformans ( cn ) was first isolated from a pulmonary site in 12 patients . disseminated disease was subsequently documented in all these patients . symptoms and roentgenographic manifestations ( normal , nodular/circumscribed infiltrates , pleural effusions , lobar consolidation ) were diverse . interstitial infiltrates predicted the presence of another opportunistic lung infection besides cryptococcosis in five patients ( three untreated and two treated patients ) . infectious causes other than cryptococcosis were established by culture and clinical course in five of the ten patients who developed chest roentgenographic abnormalities during amphotericin b therapy . endobronchial abnormalities were identified in four patients at bronchoscopy . bronchoalveolar lavage ( 9/9 ) and pleural fluid ( 3/3 ) cultures were sensitive tests for detection of pulmonary involvement with cn . 
comparison of aerosolized glycopyrrolate and metaproterenol in acute asthma . the efficacy of nebulized glycopyrrolate compared with metaproterenol was evaluated in 46 patients with acute asthma . in a double-blinded , randomized fashion , patients received , as sole therapy , either 2 mg of glycopyrrolate or 15 mg of metaproterenol every 2 h over a 6-h study period . of the 35 patients completing the study , analysis of variance demonstrated no difference in percentage of change in fev1 between glycopyrrolate and metaproterenol . two hours after the initial dose , there was a 30 percent increase in fev1 for glycopyrrolate compared with a 25 percent increase for metaproterenol ( p greater than 0.05 , ns ) . in contrast to the comparable bronchodilator activity , the side effects profile of the two agents were markedly dissimilar . not only were subjective complaints of tremor , palpitations , and paresthesias increased for metaproterenol , but the heart rate response was significantly elevated ( p less than 0.05 ) compared with glycopyrrolate . based on these data , administration of the aerosolized anticholinergic agent , glycopyrrolate , is a reasonable therapeutic alternative for acute asthma . 
dialysis-induced respiratory acidosis . the inability to increase alveolar ventilation can lead to co2 retention and acute respiratory acidosis in patients with ventilatory limitation . in this case , a young woman receiving maximum ventilatory support was unable to excrete excess co2 , associated with increasing dianeal concentrations of peritoneal dialysis . since the patient 's lung disease had necessitated a large amount of ventilatory support , the patient was unable to increase ve appropriately to handle excess co2 . peritoneal dialysate was an additional source of carbohydrates . peritoneal dialysate is an additional carbohydrate source that may result in hypercapnia and respiratory acidosis in patients with respiratory compromise . to our knowledge , this is the first case report in an adult which demonstrates that peritoneal dialysis with high glucose loads produced an acute respiratory acidosis that was reversed by decreasing the glucose concentrations in the dialysate . excess co2 production should be considered with respiratory disorders associated with dialysis . 
use of nd : yag laser in endobronchial kaposi 's sarcoma . an unusual case of endobronchial kaposi 's sarcoma causing right middle and lower lobe atelectasis is reported . the lesion was successfully removed with nd-yag laser photoresection . 
the malignancy-sarcoidosis syndrome . in a retrospective review of six patients with malignancy preceding sarcoidosis , we found four cases of malignant lymphoproliferative disease ( ld ) and one case each of ovarian cancer and breast cancer . the median interval from onset or relapse of malignancy to sarcoidosis was nine months . of the four patients with ld , sarcoidosis appeared within six months of termination of chemotherapy for three of the patients and 15 months after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation for the fourth patient . at the time of diagnosis of sarcoidosis , there was no clinical or pathologic evidence of malignancy in the chest . we conclude that in contradistinction to the previously described syndrome of sarcoidosis preceding ld , there exists a syndrome of sarcoidosis following malignancy with or without chemotherapy . 
multiple alterations in insulin responses to glucose in islets from 48-h glucose-infused nondiabetic rats . to examine the biochemical mechanisms by which hyperglycemia produces insulin secretory abnormalities , we studied isolated islets from control rats and rats infused for 48 h with a 50 % glucose solution . to preserve the effects of in vivo hyperglycemia during in vitro handling for islet isolation , our standard isolation procedure utilized buffers containing 16.8 mm glucose . islets from infused rats released similar amounts of insulin in low or high glucose during first incubations at 37 degrees c ( 92.4 + / - 7.0 ng .10 islets-1 .45 min-1 at 2.8 mm , 84.4 + / - 4.1 ng .10 islets-1 .45 min-1 at 16.8 mm ) in contrast with control ( uninfused ) islets ( 18.6 + / - 2.8 ng .10 islets-1 .45 min-1 at 2.8 mm and 109.8 + / - 8.0 ng .10 islets-1 .45 min-1 at 16.8 mm glucose ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . secretion by islets of glucose-infused rats was lower during 60-min second incubations at 28 mm glucose than in first incubations of the same islets in low glucose ( p less than 0.01 ) . this phenomenon is comparable to the paradoxical hypersecretion observed during the first 10-15 min of exposure of glucose-infused pancreas to low-glucose perfusions . paradoxical secretion in low glucose waned rapidly , so that during second incubations at 37 degrees c , little immunoreactive insulin release occurred at 2.8 mm glucose , despite the persistence of two additional lesions . the glucose-insulin dose-response curves in second incubations showed a leftward shift for glucose-infused islets , with two - to threefold higher secretion at 5.6-8 .4 mm glucose than control islets . this is termed sensitization to glucose . 
transfusion risks . hepatitis remains the most serious transfusion risk , in terms of incidence and severity . transfusion-associated aids , hemolytic reactions , trali , and anaphylaxis are severe problems that occur relatively rarely , while febrile reactions and mild allergic reactions are common but not serious . the key to avoiding all these complications is autotransfusion ( see the article " autologous transfusion " in this issue ) . although intraoperative scavenging became available in many centers in the united states in the 1980s , it is hoped that pre-deposit autotransfusion will also become widely utilized in the next decade . 
effect of sleep and sleep deprivation on ventilatory response to bronchoconstriction . to characterize ventilatory responses to bronchoconstriction during sleep and to assess the effect of prior sleep deprivation on ventilatory and arousal responses to bronchoconstriction , bronchoconstriction was induced in eight asthmatic subjects while they were awake , during normal sleep , and during sleep after a 36-h period of sleep deprivation . each subject was bronchoconstricted with increasing concentrations of aerosolized methacholine while ventilatory patterns and lower airway resistance ( rla ) were continually monitored . the asthmatic patients maintained their minute ventilation as rla increased under all conditions , demonstrating a stable tidal volume with a mild increase in respiratory frequency . inspiratory drive , as measured by occlusion pressure ( p0 .1 ) , increased progressively and significantly as rla increased under all conditions ( slopes of p0 .1 vs. rla = 0.249 , 0.112 , and 0.154 for awake , normal sleep , and sleep after sleep deprivation , respectively , p less than 0.0006 ) . chemostimuli did not appear to contribute significantly to the observed increases in p0 .1 . prior sleep deprivation had no effect on ventilatory and p0 .1 responses to bronchoconstriction but did significantly raise the arousal threshold to induced bronchoconstriction . we conclude that ventilatory responses to bronchoconstriction , unlike extrinsic loading , are not imparied by the presence of sleep , nor are they chemically mediated . however , prior sleep deprivation does increase the subsequent arousal threshold . 
late-phase bronchial vascular responses in allergic sheep . sheep were classified on the basis of their airway response to ascaris suum antigen aerosols as allergic or nonsensitive . allergic sheep were classed as acute or dual responders . acute responders had only an immediate increase in mean airflow resistance after antigen , whereas dual responders had an immediate and late-phase ( 6-8 h after antigen challenge ) increase in mean airflow resistance ; nonsensitive sheep had minimal airway responses to antigen ( less than 30 % increase from base line ) . the sheep were anesthetized 2 wk later and , after a left thoracotomy , were challenged with antigen to determine bronchial vascular responses ; bronchial artery blood flow was measured with an electromagnetic flow probe . airway responses to antigen aerosol challenge were similar in the anesthetized and conscious animals . the mean fall in bronchial vascular resistance ( bvr ) immediately after antigen challenge was similar in acute and dual responders ( 41 + / - 7 and 47 + / - 9 % of base line , respectively ) . in dual responders , late-phase airway responses were preceded by a significant increase from base line in qbr and a fall in bronchovascular resistance ( bvr ) . the mean fall in bvr 6-8 h after antigen challenge in documented dual responders was significantly different from bronchial vascular responses in acute responders ( 59 + / - 3 vs. 89 + / - 10 % , respectively ) . sheep without airway responses to a. suum had no significant changes in bronchial hemodynamics or airways mechanics . late-phase-associated changes in bvr are a specific response to antigen challenge and may be a sensitive index of mediators being released . 
susceptibility to thyroid autoimmune disease : molecular analysis of hla-d region genes identifies new markers for goitrous hashimoto 's thyroiditis . hashimoto 's thyroiditis has been shown to be associated with the hla-specificities dr4 and dr5 . since former association studies yielded variable results , we used novel molecular typing methods to assess predisposing immunogenetic factors . gene analysis of the hla-dr-dq and tumor necrosis factor region was performed in a group of hashimoto 's thyroiditis patients and randomly chosen controls using standards and nomenclature of the 10th international histocompatibility workshop . genomic dna of patients and controls was analyzed using a cdna probe of the dqb1 gene . the resulting restriction fragment patterns allowed the determination of newly defined dqw-types 1-9 . we find the strongest relative risk conferred by dqw7 ( rr = 4.7 ) , that is observed in 36 of 64 patients ( 56 % ) and only 21 of 98 controls ( 21 % ) ( p corr less than 0.002 ) . comparison of dna sequence variation in the dqb1 gene , that is found predominantly in hashimoto 's thyroiditis patients , indicates that codons 45 and 57 are critical features in dqw7 which distinguish it from other dqw specificities . the adjacent dqa1 genes also display a significant association with hashimoto 's thyroiditis ( dqa1 * 0201 / * 0301 heterozygotes were found in 37 % of patients and 15 % controls , p less than 0.03 ) . no significant association could be found with polymorphisms of the tumor necrosis factor gene . these results provide a new basis for the concept of genetic susceptibility in hashimoto 's thyroiditis and will help to elucidate the underlying autoimmune mechanisms that lead to disease at the functional level . 
low prevalence of thyrotropin receptor antibody in primary hypothyroidism in japan . the prevalence of tsh receptor antibody ( trab ) , measured by rra assay ( tsh-binding inhibitor immunoglobulin , tbii ) and biological stimulation-blocking assay ( thyroid-stimulation blocking antibody , tsbab ) , was examined in 134 consecutive patients with primary hypothyroidism due to autoimmune thyroiditis [ 83 patients with goitrous hashimoto 's disease ( group a ) and 51 with primary atrophic hypothyroidism ( group b ) ] . in group a , tbii was detected in 6 patients ( 7 % ) , tsbab in 7 ( 8 % ) , and both in 4 ( 5 % ) . similarly , in group b , tbii was detected in 7 patients ( 14 % ) , tsbab in 7 ( 14 % ) , and both in 5 ( 10 % ) . tbii with tsbab activity was low or moderate in group a , but strongly positive in group b. no relationship was apparent in either group between tbii or tsbab activity and any clinical or laboratory parameter examined . moreover , no clinical or laboratory findings distinguished patients with trab from those without . the low prevalence of trab in primary hypothyroidism suggests that intrathyroidal cell-mediated destructive mechanisms may be more important in the pathogenesis of hypothyroidism in autoimmune thyroiditis . 
adrenal medullitis in type i diabetes . to investigate whether cell-mediated immunity against the adrenal medulla occurs in type i diabetes ( iddm ) , we conducted a retrospective autopsy study of adrenal glands from iddm and nondiabetic subjects using formalin-fixed tissue . forty-four iddm subjects , aged 4-67 yrs ( mean + / - sd , 44.8 + / - 15.4 ) with a duration of iddm from 0-55 yr ( 28.6 + / - 14.2 ) , and 29 nondiabetic controls , aged 8-82 yr ( 51.8 + / - 18.6 ) , were evaluated for a lymphocytic infiltrate using uchl1 , which recognizes a subpopulation of resting t-lymphocytes and most activated t-lymphocytes . immunohistochemistry using antihuman b-cell antibody ( l26 ) was also performed . sections were scored for both lymphocytic infiltrates and fibrosis [ none ( 0 ) , small ( 1 ) , moderate ( 2 ) , or large ( 3 ) ] . blinded scoring was performed . a moderate to severe uchl1 infiltrate was present in 9 of 44 ( 20 % ) iddm , compared with 1 of 29 ( 3 % ) control subjects ( p less than 0.04 ) . mild to severe fibrosis ( score 1 , 2 , or 3 ) was present in 22 of 42 ( 52 % ) iddm subjects compared with 4 of 25 ( 16 % ) control subjects ( p = 0.003 ) . eight of 42 ( 19 % ) iddm subjects had moderate to severe fibrosis ( score 2 or 3 ) compared with 1 of 25 ( 4 % ) control subjects . seventeen of 44 ( 39 % ) iddm subjects had either a moderate to large cellular infiltrate or moderate to severe adrenal medullary fibrosis compared with 2 of 29 ( 7 % ) control subjects ( p = 0.003 ) . staining of the adrenal medulla with l26 revealed a large cellular infiltrate in only one subject who was uchl1 negative . adrenal medullitis was observed in 20 % of iddm subjects , suggesting that the adrenal medulla may be another immunological target in iddm . 
thyroiditis as the presenting manifestation of disseminated extrapulmonary pneumocystis carinii infection . a 38-yr-old male with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome developed neck pain in association with mild hyperthyroidism and a diffusely enlarged thyroid gland . radioactive iodine scanning was consistent with thyroiditis , and biopsy of the thyroid demonstrated the presence of pneumocystis carinii in thyroid tissue . treatment with pentamidine followed by trimethoprim sulfamethoxazole led to rapid normalization of thyroid size in association with the development of hypothyroidism . this case illustrates the natural history of pneumocystis carinii thyroiditis and suggests that thyroid disease be added to the spectrum of human immunodeficiency virus-associated endocrine dysfunction . 
computer assisted selection and assessment of antibodies in the diagnosis of lymphomas . with increasing numbers of reagents the problem of selecting appropriate antibodies to solve problems in the diagnosis of lymphoma is becoming more complex . one approach is to use a computer program to optimise the selection process . such a program was devised , incorporating data from an extensive literature search . when presented with a differential diagnosis it selects the most appropriate antibody panel and when given the results evaluates the relative likelihood of each possible diagnosis . in a retrospective study 81 % of the tests used had been non-discriminatory , but using the results of the remaining 19 % of the tests , the computer was able to select the " correct " diagnosis with a high degree of certainty . the development and use of this system illustrated several problems in the application of computer assisted diagnostic techniques in histopathology . these problems include incomplete data and lack of understanding of the process of histopathological diagnosis . 
value of monoclonal anti-myeloperoxidase ( mpo7 ) for diagnosing acute leukaemia . the expression of myeloperoxidase ( mpo ) was studied in 100 cases of acute leukaemia ( 83 with acute myeloid leukaemia ( aml ) and 17 acute lymphoblastic leukaemia ( all ) by both a conventional cytochemical method and the immunocytochemical antiperoxidase ( apaap ) technique using the monoclonal antibody mpo7 . in each case the staining was evaluated by light microscopical examination ( percentage of positive cells ) . of the 83 cases of aml , 78 ( 93.9 % ) were positive for mpo7 compared with 70 ( 84.3 % ) by cytochemistry . antibodies against the myeloid markers cd13 and cd33 were positive in 71 ( 85.5 % ) and 70 ( 84.3 % ) cases , respectively . importantly , all cases of all were negative for both mpo7 and cytochemical mpo staining even when they were positive for cd13 and cd33 . these results indicate that the anti-myeloperoxidase antibody mpo7 is the most sensitive and specific reagent for the diagnosis of aml and should therefore be included in routine immunophenotyping panels . 
identification of human immunodeficiency virus hybridizing sequences in the peripheral blood of a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus . systemic lupus erythematosus , a multisystemic disorder , is considered a prototype of the autoimmune diseases . although its cause remains unknown , a viral etiology has been proposed . we report that a rapid and sensitive messenger rna in situ hybridization technique detected hybridizing sequences to the human immunodeficiency virus type in the peripheral blood cells of a woman with systemic lupus erythematosus in whom the presence of acquired immuno-deficiency syndrome was reasonably excluded . 
autoimmunity and malignancy . in patients with autoimmune diseases malignancy is observed more frequently than in an age-matched control group . in strains of mice susceptible to autoimmune diseases , the incidence of lymphoreticular malignancies is increased . although viruses have not been directly implicated in their pathogenesis or etiology , there are suggestions that slow viruses may be involved . viruses have been found to be important in the development of lymphomas . hence in genetically susceptible animals , viruses can initiate the autoimmune process . prolonged stimulation of the autoimmune process or a prolonged state of immunodeficiency could trigger or activate genes or their products , which could result in the development of malignancy . 
miliary tuberculosis presenting as skin lesions in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . acute miliary tuberculosis of the skin is an extremely rare infection that occurs in immunocompromised persons . we report an intravenous drug abuser with human immunodeficiency virus infection in whom erythematous papules developed on the trunk and proximal aspect of the extremities . visceral lesions of unsuspected miliary tuberculosis were discovered at autopsy , and the cutaneous papules were found to contain mycobacterium tuberculosis . this is the first reported case of this cutaneous infection in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . 
disseminated kaposi 's sarcoma not associated with hiv infection in a bisexual man . we report a 42-year-old white bisexual man with disseminated kaposi 's sarcoma limited to the skin and gastrointestinal tract . results of several serum tests for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) antibodies have been negative . the cd4/cd8 ratio has remained normal , and his kaposi 's sarcoma has had a benign clinical course during 30 months of follow-up . similar reports of disseminated kaposi 's sarcoma with a benign clinical course in homosexual or bisexual men without demonstrable hiv infection are reviewed . some cellular immune impairment that might be more prevalent in the homosexual population may be implicated in the pathogenesis of this type of kaposi 's sarcoma . 
widespread flat warts associated with human papillomavirus type 5 : a cutaneous manifestation of human immunodeficiency virus infection . numerous flat and tinea versicolor-like warts developed on the face , trunk , and upper extremities of a 10-year-old boy with human immunodeficiency virus infection . nucleic acid analysis of involved skin revealed human papillomavirus type 5 , which has sometimes been associated with epidermodysplasia verruciformis . this human papillomavirus type has also been described in patients with common variable immunodeficiency and dyskeratosis congenita and in renal allograft recipients . human immunodeficiency virus infection should be added to the list of immune-related disorders that predispose to widespread flat warts . 
serial doppler echocardiographic follow-up of left ventricular diastolic function in cardiac amyloidosis . a spectrum of left ventricular diastolic filling abnormalities noted on doppler echocardiography has been demonstrated in patients with cardiac amyloidosis . to determine how these filling abnormalities evolve over time and the significance of any change , serial pulsed wave doppler studies of left ventricular inflow were performed over 12.6 + / - 4.9 months in 41 consecutive patients ( 36 men and 15 women , mean age 59 + / - 11 years ) with typical two-dimensional echocardiographic features of cardiac involvement . the measurements were peak left ventricular inflow in early diastole ( e ) and atrial contraction ( a ) velocities , e/a ratio , deceleration time and isovolumetric relaxation time . patients were classified by mean left ventricular wall thickness into an early group ( less than 15 mm ) of 24 patients and an advanced group ( greater than or equal to 15 mm ) of 17 patients . the total group showed an increased e/a ratio ( 1.7 + / - 0.9 versus 1.4 + / - 0.9 , p = 0.009 ) and decreased deceleration time ( 164 + / - 57 versus 174 + / - 51 ms , p = 0.11 ) at follow-up compared with baseline study . the early group showed significant changes in the e/a ratio ( 1.6 + / - 1.0 versus 1.2 + / - 0.7 , p = 0.001 ) between the two studies . seven patients ( 29 % ) in the early group showed a change from an abnormal relaxation or " normal " pattern to one of restriction , coincident with increased symptoms in six of these patients . fifteen ( 88 % ) of the 17 patients in the advanced group did not show significant changes in the measures during the follow-up study , but these patients already showed a restrictive pattern . 
acute hemorrhagic edema of infancy ( ahei ) -- a variant of henoch-schonlein purpura or a distinct clinical entity ? acute hemorrhagic edema of infancy ( ahei ) is an acute cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis ( lcv ) of infants . the clinical picture has a violent onset with a short benign course followed by spontaneous complete recovery . we report 12 infants with ahei who were studied clinically , serologically , and immunohistologically . edema and palpable purpuric skin lesions were present in all infants who were in good general condition . serologic studies were unremarkable . light microscopic examination of the skin biopsy specimens revealed lcv as in henoch-schonlein purpura ( hsp ) . direct immunofluorescent study revealed depositions of various immunoreactants , including fibrinogen , c3 , igg , igm , iga , and ige ( 100 % , 100 % , 22 % , 78 % , 33 % , and 33 % , respectively ) in the wall and around the small vessels . similar deposition of clq was also present in three infants in whom clq could be studied ( 100 % ) . the clinical similarities and differences between ahei and hsp have been discussed in the literature . ahei is observed before 2 years of age and is confined to the skin . the skin lesions of hsp are more polymorphic . although histopathologic findings are similar , the immunohistologic pattern found in our series of ahei is rather different from the pattern of hsp . taking all of these findings into account , we suggest that ahei should be considered as a separate , clinicopathologic entity or a possible variant of hsp . the more descriptive term " acute benign cutaneous lcv of infancy " is offered for this clinicopathologic entity . 
role of nasal allergy in chronic maxillary sinusitis -- diagnostic value of nasal challenge with allergen . the role of nasal allergy in chronic maxillary sinusitis without an air-fluid level was studied in 37 patients . seventy-three nasal provocation tests with various inhalant allergens were performed in 37 patients by means of rhinomanometry , and maxillary sinus radiographs were performed before and repeatedly after the allergen challenge . forty-one positive nasal responses ( nrs ) occurred in 29 patients ; 13 were immediate only , 18 were late only , and 10 nrs were dual responses . of these responses , 32 demonstrated radiographic changes , primarily an increase in mucosal edema and/or opacification . these responses were accompanied by increased pressure in the maxillary sinuses , acute headache , and sometimes otalgia . eight patients did not develop any nrs ; however , increased thickening of the mucosal membrane of the maxillary sinuses , accompanied by subjective symptoms , was recorded in three of these nonresponders . these results demonstrate the role of nasal allergy in some patients with chronic maxillary sinusitis , which may affect the diagnostic and therapeutic approaches to this disorder . 
characteristics of patients with food-related complaints . forty-five patients with classic food-allergic symptoms and/or subjective food-related complaints not traditionally associated with food allergy underwent evaluation . on the basis of a comprehensive clinical history , skin testing , and placebo-controlled , double-blind food challenges , patients were assigned to one of two groups : patients with reactions highly suggestive of ige-mediated food hypersensitivity ( group a , n = 22 ) and patients with atypical adverse food reactions that could not be confirmed by double-blind food challenge ( group b , n = 23 ) . most patients in both groups were female , 77.3 % and 91.3 % of patients in group a and b , respectively . in group b , onset of symptoms occurred at an older age than in group a , 28.9 years + / - 17.2 versus 17.1 + / - 12.1 ( p = 0.0015 ) , respectively , and involved more foods , 25.6 + / - 22.1 versus 5.2 + / - 5.5 ( p = 0.0002 ) . foods causing most prominent symptoms among patients in group a included legumes , tree nuts , crustaceans , and fish . in group b , milk , white sugar , wheat , egg , smoked/cured meat , and yeast were among the most troublesome foods . all but one patient in group a gave a positive skin test response to food ; only four patients in group b had a positive response . we conclude that a subset of patients with food-related complaints can be accurately predicted to have a negative double-blind challenge with suspected foods on the basis of information obtained by history and skin testing . 
elevated serum interleukin-6 associated with a failure in b cell differentiation in common variable immunodeficiency . interleukin-6 ( il-6 / b cell stimulatory factor 2 ) has been found to drive activated human b-lymphocytes through the final stages of differentiation to become immunoglobulin-producing cells . most patients with common variable immunodeficiency ( cvi ) have b-lymphocytes that fail to differentiate into high-rate immunoglobulin-secreting cells in vivo and in vitro . in view of ( 1 ) the known effects of il-6 to promote b-lymphocyte terminal differentiation and ( 2 ) the defect in differentiation in b-lymphocytes of patients with cvi , we believed that it was important to analyze the role of this cytokine in patients with cvi . using an il-6-dependent murine hybridoma cell line in a bioassay , serum il-6 levels were determined in 17 patients with cvi and in eight normal control subjects . thirteen of the 17 patients with cvi exhibited serum il-6 levels that were twofold to 18-fold higher than the range ( mean , +2 sd ) of normal control subjects . spontaneous il-6 production by peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( pbmc ) of patients with cvi was significantly higher than that from normal control subjects , whereas lipopolysaccharide maximally stimulated il-6 production by pbmcs of patients with cvi or pbmcs of normal control subjects was equivalent . a substance inhibitory of il-6 bioactivity was found in equivalent amounts in sera of both patients and normal control subjects . sera from patients with cvi with high il-6 bioactivity were found to have saturated this il-6 inhibitory substance , thus resulting in large amounts of free il-6 in the sera . these studies suggest that the failure of b cells from patients with cvi to terminally differentiate into high-rate immunoglobulin-secreting cells can not be attributed to a decrease in the serum levels of il-6 and that the increased circulating il-6 levels in patients with cvi result from hyperproduction rather than decreased use of il-6 . the persistently elevated levels of il-6 observed in some patients with cvi may secondarily result in the induction of the neoplastic and autoimmune phenomena associated with this disease . 
immunoblot analysis of sera from patients with allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis : correlation with disease activity . immunoblot analysis was used to evaluate the igg , ige , and iga responses to aspergillus fumigatus antigen with the sera of five patients with allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis ( abpa ) before , during , and after suspected exacerbation of their disease . the results revealed a heterogenous antibody response , unique for each patient , to specific aspergillus fumigatus antigens that correlated with the molecular weights of previously well-characterized antigens of importance in the immunopathogenesis of abpa . a rating scale was devised for measuring band intensity that allowed the patient 's antibody responses to be reproducibly semiquantitated . immunoblot analysis demonstrated qualitative and semiquantitative information that is not available with other in vitro assays used in the study of patients with abpa , such as elisa . these initial results emphasize the need for additional evaluation of this technique to assess its potential clinical application in this disease . 
basophil histamine release by platelet-activating factor in aspirin-sensitive subjects with asthma . histamine release induced by platelet-activating factor ( paf ) from leukocytes of aspirin-sensitive subjects with asthma was higher than that from normal control subjects , despite the similarity of anti-ige-induced histamine release . moreover , basophils of some aspirin-sensitive subjects with asthma released histamine by paf stimulation in the absence of cytochalasin b that affects histamine release and is required in paf-induced histamine release from leukocytes of atopic subjects with asthma and normal control subjects . in addition to temperature dependency and inhibition by ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid reported previously , paf-induced histamine release was enhanced by cytochalasin b and indomethacin and inhibited by dexamethasone . these features are common with ige-mediated histamine release and suggest the existence of the common pathway to paf-induced histamine release and ige-mediated histamine release . the results in the present study indicate the pathophysiologic significance of paf-induced histamine release and that activation of basophils by paf may be relevant to the pathogenesis in some aspirin-sensitive subjects with asthma . 
prevalence of occupational asthma and immunologic sensitization to guar gum among employees at a carpet-manufacturing plant . guar gum is a high-molecular-weight agent that can cause occupational rhinitis and asthma . we surveyed the employees at a carpet-manufacturing plant in which guar gum is used to adhere the dye to the fiber ; 162/177 of the employees ( 92 % ) participated in the first part of the survey that included a questionnaire and skin prick tests with common allergens and guar gum ( 1 mg/ml ) . ige and igg antibodies to guar gum were also measured in those subjects ( 133/162 or 82 % ) who agreed to blood tests . thirty-seven subjects ( 23 % ) had a history suggestive of occupational asthma and 59 ( 36 % ) , of occupational rhinitis . eight subjects ( 5 % ) demonstrated immediate skin reactivity to guar gum . eleven subjects ( 8.3 % ) had serum ige antibodies to guar gum . all subjects , except one subject who had a history suggestive of occupational asthma ( n = 37 ) or positive skin tests ( n = 4 ) , participated in the second part of the study . a methacholine-inhalation test was performed during a workshift or in the 3 to 4 hours after the workshift . five subjects had a concentration of methacholine causing a 20 % fall in fev1 of less than 16 mg/ml ( significant bronchial hyperresponsiveness ) and positive skin reactions to guar gum . four of these subjects underwent specific inhalation challenges . the remaining subject had a history of severe bronchospastic reaction on exposure to guar gum , and his fev1 of 1.6 l made specific challenges impossible . two subjects had typical isolated immediate reactions . 
tryptase , a mediator of human mast cells . tryptase , a mediator secreted by human mast cells during immediate reactions , has demonstrated effects on several pathways in vitro . this enzyme can rapidly inactivate fibrinogen and , as a complex with heparin , may prevent coagulation that may otherwise occur when plasma enters tissues at sites of immediate reactions . tryptase may also activate prostromelysin , which in turn activates latent collagenase . when canine pulmonary smooth muscle is incubated with canine tryptase , the contractile response to histamine is increased . tryptase , quantifiable in complex biologic fluids by immunoassay , can serve as a specific indicator of mast cell involvement in certain clinical settings . for example , after bee sting -- induced anaphylaxis , tryptase levels in the blood peak at approximately 1 hour , then decline with a half-life of approximately 2 hours . additionally , elevated tryptase levels in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of asymptomatic , atopic persons with asthma suggest ongoing mast cell activation , which may relate to adenosine hyperresponsiveness and a persistence of bronchial hyperreactivity . tryptase levels in bronchial lavage fluid of atopic patients with asthma rise markedly after endobronchial allergen challenge but not after an exercise challenge , suggesting a lack of mast cell involvement in the latter condition . 
the role of histamine in allergic diseases . histamine , which is stored mainly in mast cells and basophils , is a prominent contributor to allergic disease . elevations in plasma or tissue histamine levels have been noted during anaphylaxis and experimental allergic responses of the skin , nose , and airways . of the four cardinal signs of asthma ( bronchospasm , edema , inflammation , and mucus secretion ) , histamine is capable of mediating the first two through its h1 receptor and mucus secretion through its h2 receptor . of the five cardinal signs of allergic rhinitis ( pruritus , mucosal edema , sneezing , mucus secretion , and late-phase inflammatory reactions ) , histamine is capable of mediating the first three through its h1 receptor . in the nose , mucus secretion can be reflexively mediated by h1 and possibly also by h2 receptors . in the skin the cardinal features of urticaria ( vasodilation , vascular permeability , and pruritus ) can be mediated by stimulation of the h1 receptor . in anaphylaxis histamine h1-receptor stimulation can mediate vascular permeability , smooth muscle contraction , and tachycardia , whereas h2-receptor stimulation can mediate mucus secretion . stimulation of both receptors can mediate vasodilation and reduce peripheral vascular resistance . thus although histamine is only one of many mediators of allergic disease , it plays a primary role in allergic rhinitis , urticaria , anaphylaxis , and to a lesser degree , asthma . 
the role of antihistamines in otitis . chronic and recurrent otitis media can manifest as otitis media with effusion . both infection and eustachian tube obstruction ( eto ) have been found to play an important role in its pathogenesis . eto can be demonstrated during both early - and late-phase reactions in patients with allergic rhinitis after intranasal challenge with an allergen . intranasal challenge with either histamine or prostaglandin d2 also provokes eto , with the latter mediator perhaps more potent than the former . middle ear effusions from patients with chronic or recurrent otitis media have been found to contain dramatically increased concentrations of histamine relative to the concentrations in their plasma . the development of nasal and eustachian tube obstruction in allergic rhinitis patients has been prevented by pretreatment with an antihistamine plus decongestant before intranasal challenge with pollen allergen . investigations are currently under way to assess the effect of antihistamine pretreatment on nasal and eustachian tube obstruction in patients undergoing intranasal histamine challenge . 
the role of antihistamine therapy in vascular headaches . migraine ( vascular ) headache is a complex syndrome that involves vascular hyperreactivity . the functions of systemic mediators in migraine are not fully understood . it is unclear which mediators provoke this probably atopic disorder and which represent an attempt to correct an imbalance . however , it has been demonstrated fairly conclusively that increased histamine levels correlate with migraine attacks in susceptible persons . recent studies showing that histamine seems to have many different receptors and to adopt different conformations for different receptors may serve as a useful guide to future scientific investigation . further impetus may come from ongoing studies of h3 histamine receptors , which indicate that h3 agonists offer promise as prophylactic agents for people who suffer from vascular headaches . 
the use of antihistamines in the prevention and treatment of anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reactions . the pathophysiologic effects of histamine in anaphylaxis have been shown to be mediated through h1 and h2 receptors , individually and in combination . h1 receptors mediate coronary artery vasoconstriction , wheezing , cutaneous vascular permeability , and possibly an increase in pulse rate . h2 receptors stimulate ventricular and atrial inotropy , arterial chronotropy , coronary vasodilation , and rises in basophil cyclic adenosine 3 ' :5 ' monophosphate ( cyclic amp ) . ( neither receptor mediates increases in cyclic amp in mast cells . ) h1 and h2 receptors in combination seem to be most potent in mediating flush , headache , increases in pulse pressure , and decreases in diastolic blood pressure . clinical trials have been conducted to determine the efficacy of h1 and h2 antagonists in preventing anaphylactic reactions to plasma expanders , anesthesia-inducing agents , morphine , and radiocontrast material . concurrently , retrospective observations of the prevention of anaphylactic reactions to chymopapain have been recorded . despite some conflicting and inconclusive data , the sum of these studies indicates that pretreatment with a combination of h1 and h2 antagonists is more effective than h1 antagonists alone in preventing reactions to these agents . these results , when added to the available knowledge of the physiology of histamine release , support the preferential use of h1/h2 antagonist combinations in the prevention and treatment of anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reactions . 
normal responsiveness of superficial hand veins to alpha - and beta-adrenergic stimuli in allergic asthma : effects of terbutaline and prednisolone on beta-adrenergic responsiveness . impaired function of the adrenergic-receptor system has been postulated to contribute to the pathogenesis of bronchial asthma . using the dorsal hand-vein compliance technique , we compared the changes in diameter of superficial hand veins in response to phenylephrine , an alpha-adrenoceptor agonist , and to isoproterenol , a beta-adrenoceptor agonist , in 14 untreated patients with allergic asthma and in 16 nonatopic control subjects . there were no significant differences in the median effective dose of phenylephrine that produced 50 % of maximal venoconstriction ( ed50 ) or in the maximal response ( emax ) between the two groups . bronchial hyperreactivity ( assessed by methacholine-challenge tests ) in the patients with asthma was uncorrelated with the ed50 or emax of isoproterenol . these results demonstrate no evidence for a generalized change in alpha - or beta-adrenergic responsiveness on smooth muscle cells in asthma . hand-vein responsiveness to isoproterenol was unchanged after treatment for 7 days with oral terbutaline ( 5 mg three times per day ) . thus , unlike leukocytes , smooth muscle appears not readily susceptible to beta-adrenoceptor desensitization in vivo . local infusions of prednisolone or dexamethasone during 2 hours and systemic administration of dexamethasone ( 24 hours ) caused a significant fall in the emax for isoproterenol . the mechanism of attenuation of beta-adrenoceptor responsiveness by corticosteroids remains to be determined . 
allergens as proteases : an aspergillus fumigatus proteinase directly induces human epithelial cell detachment . allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis ( abpa ) is characterized by pulmonary and systemic allergic and inflammatory processes triggered by fungal antigens . airway damage is a feature of this disorder , and although aspergillus-derived proteinases have been described , the capacity of aspergillus , however , to directly induce damage to human epithelium has not previously been studied . we therefore cultured aspergillus fumigatus from two patients with abpa , extracted mycelial products by sonication and filtration , and then evaluated their capacity to induce epithelial cell ( ec ) desquamation from basement membrane using an in vitro model that uses intact human amniotic ec and native basement membrane . a. fumigatus extracts induced detachment of ec in a dose-dependent fashion , producing up to 34 % + / - 6 % detachment ( p less than 0.05 compared to medium alone ) . enzyme analysis of a. fumigatus extract using synthetic substrates revealed the presence of a number of different enzymes ; therefore , studies with specific proteinase inhibitors were undertaken to identify the proteinase ( s ) responsible for detachment . a. fumigatus-induced desquamation was partially inhibited by phenylmethylsulfonylfluoride and substantially inhibited by glutathione and n-acetylcysteine , but not by alpha 1-antitrypsin , 1,10 phenanthroline , ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid , aprotinin , or soybean trypsin inhibitor at concentrations that inhibit other serine - or metalloproteinases . gel filtration of the extract with a sepharose 6b column revealed that the major epithelium-detaching activity appeared in the 20 to 35 kd fraction . comparison with proteinase standards suggested a role for a chymotrypsin-like proteinase . thus , a. fumigatus releases a proteinase that is directly able to induce ec detachment . 
it is children with atopic dermatitis who develop asthma more frequently if the mother smokes . we elicited symptoms of atopic dermatitis ( ad ) and of asthma from 620 children who were themselves nonsmokers , were aged 1 to 17 years , and had been consecutively referred to an allergy clinic . a histamine bronchial-challenge test revealed bronchial hyperresponsiveness in 95 % of the children who had a history of wheezing or asthma and who could perform the test reliably , indicating that most of them did indeed have asthma . children with a history of ad were much more likely to have asthma if the mother was a smoker than if she was a nonsmoker ( 79 % versus 52 % ; p = 0.001 ) . similarly , if ad was found on examination , the percentages with asthma were 74 % and 44 % , respectively . by contrast , the children with no history of ad had asthma as frequently if the mother was a nonsmoker ( 42 % ) as when she was a smoker ( 40 % ) . in children with ad , the prevalence of asthma was greater in both boys and girls when the mother was a smoker , but only in boys when the father was a smoker . multiple logistic regression confirmed that the risk of asthma was greatly increased when the child had both ad and a mother who smoked . 
salsalate cross-sensitivity in aspirin-sensitive patients with asthma . ten aspirin ( asa ) - sensitive patients with asthma underwent double-blind , placebo-controlled oral challenges with salsalate followed by asa-sensitive confirmatory challenges . all 10 patients sustained asthmatic reactions to asa , but only two developed respiratory reactions to 2 gm of salsalate . in these two patients , repeat confirmatory challenges with 2 gm of salsalate reproduced the same asthmatic reactions . both patients were desensitized to asa , and cross-desensitization with 2 gm of salsalate was then achieved . we conclude that salsalate , a weak inhibitor of cyclooxygenase in vitro , is less likely than asa to induce asthma in known asa-sensitive patients with asthma but may occasionally cross-react in these patients . such reactions were mild and easily treated with beta 2-agonists . 
immediate skin test reactivity to food and drug administration-approved standardized extracts . in an effort to determine whether recently introduced food and drug administration-approved standardized extracts produce clinically appropriate responses in a population , 200 subjects were skin prick tested ( spt ) . thirteen extracts ( 10 pollens , two house dust ( hd ) mites and cat ) were tested in three groups of subjects , 50 with a history of asthma or allergic rhinitis ( al ) , 50 without asthma or perennial or seasonal allergic rhinitis but with a positive immediate family history for these conditions ( fal ) , and 100 subjects without a personal or family history for these conditions ( nal ) . an spt mean wheal diameter greater than or equal to 3 mm was considered positive . ninety percent ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 82 % to 98 % ) of al subjects had at least one positive spt . forty-six percent of fal subjects ( 95 % ci , 30 % to 58 % ) and 29 % of nal subjects ( 95 % ci , 20 % to 38 % ) had at least one positive spt . more fal than nal subjects had at least one spt ( p less than 0.05 ) , and fal subjects had more positive spts than nal subjects ( p less than 0.05 ) , further supporting the genetic regulation of allergen-specific ige production . of the five al subjects with no spt wheal greater than or equal to 3 mm , three subjects were available for intradermal tests . thirteen nonstandardized allergens similar to allergens used for spt were applied intradermally in each of these three subjects and were all negative . compared with history , an spt wheal greater than or equal to 3 mm to cat produced a sensitivity of 0.90 , a specificity of 0.90 , and diagnostic accuracy of 0.90 . tenfold dilutions of pollens and cat reduced sensitivity without significantly improving specificity . 
increased bronchial hyperresponsiveness after inhaling salbutamol during 1 year is not caused by subsensitization to salbutamol . recently , it was suggested that long-term administration of an inhaled beta 2-agonist might increase bronchial hyperresponsiveness ( bhr ) to histamine , possibly as a consequence of subsensitization to the inhaled beta 2-agonist . to test this hypothesis , we studied two groups of patients with asthma or with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . an experimental group of 15 patients , inhaling 400 micrograms of salbutamol four times daily during 1 year and subsequently 40 micrograms of ipratropium bromide four times daily for 6 months , and a control group , consisting of 22 patients with the opposite treatment regimen . the bhr , the response in fev1 to cumulative doses of salbutamol , and the number of beta 2-adrenoceptors and antagonist affinity of these receptors on circulating lymphocytes were assessed at the start of the study and at 6-month intervals for 1 1/2 years . the bhr increased significantly ( p = 0.001 ) during the year salbutamol was inhaled and returned to about the value at the start of the study after inhaling ipratropium bromide for 6 months . no change occurred in the bronchodilating responses to cumulative doses of salbutamol , nor was any change observed in the number and the affinity of beta 2-adrenoceptors on lymphocytes . it was concluded that long-term use of salbutamol caused a small but significant increase in bhr . the increase in bhr was not caused by subsensitization of beta 2-adrenoceptors to salbutamol . 
down regulation in hypersensitivity pneumonitis . levels of soluble interleukin-2 receptor ( sol-il-2r ) in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid ( balf ) of pigeon breeders with hypersensitivity pneumonitis were compared with balf levels in asymptomatic pigeon breeders who had been exposed to pigeon allergens for an equivalent length of time . no mean difference in sol-il-2r levels was detected when these levels were expressed per milliliter balf , epithelial lining fluid , or per t-lymphocyte . in sarcoidosis , the availability of sol-il-2r per t cell was significantly higher for the group with inactive sarcoidosis compared with the group with active sarcoidosis . the results do not support the hypothesis that down regulation , in subjects exposed to allergens causing hypersensitivity pneumonitis , is a function of cell-free sol-il-2r levels in balf . in the dynamic situation , however , the hypothesis appears tenable . 
aberrant regulation of il-1 expression in macrophages from young autoimmune-prone mice . il-1 is a multifunctional , immunoregulatory polypeptide produced by many cell types . because activated macrophages are a major source of il-1 and have also been implicated in the pathogenesis of autoimmune disease , we investigated the regulation of il-1 expression in several autoimmune-prone strains of mice . peritoneal macrophages derived from the autoimmune-prone strains mrl/lpr , mrl / + , nzb , and nzb/w f1 , as well as nzw , displayed transient expression of il-1 in contrast to the stable expression characteristic of control normal strains including a. thy , a/j , b10 , b10.a , b10.d2 , c57bl/6 , balb/c , and c3h/hen . the down-regulation of il-1 by macrophages from the autoimmune-prone mice was not attributable to inherently defective signal transduction because macrophages from both the normal and autoimmune-prone strains displayed substantial initial levels of cell-associated and secreted il-1 . however , during the first 2 to 3 days in culture , macrophages from autoimmune-prone mice became progressively refractory to both induction and maintenance of il-1 , a pattern that correlated with changes in the levels of il-1 alpha and beta mrna . the progressive reduction in il-1 expression by macrophages from these autoimmune-prone strains was not due to a reduction in general metabolism or viability , because expression of cell surface antigens , including mhc class i and ii ag and lfa-1 , was comparable to that of control macrophages . because il-1 plays a critical role in the homeostasis of a variety of cell lineages , defective expression , and maintenance of il-1 ( and perhaps other cytokines ) by macrophages from the autoimmune-prone strains may contribute to the immune dysregulation that develops in these mice . alternatively , cytokine dysregulation might not contribute directly to disease , but rather reflect a more basic defect related to specific signal transducing or gene regulatory pathways . 
synergistic effect of murine cytomegalovirus on the induction of acute graft-vs-host disease involving mhc class i differences only . analysis of in vitro t cell function . the development of acute graft-vs-host disease ( gvhd ) is a common outcome after the injection of fully mhc disparate parental t cells into unirradiated f1 mice . murine cytomegalovirus ( mcmv ) infection has been previously shown to augment the development of acute gvhd in the parent-into-f1 ( p ---- f1 ) model , such that 10-fold fewer parental cells are required . in the present study , we have investigated the effect of mcmv infection on the induction of non-lethal gvhd that occurs in p ---- f1 combinations involving mhc class i only or class ii only differences . using p ---- f1 combinations involving either an h-2k only difference or an h-2d only difference , mcmv infection of f1 mice 3 days before the injection of parental spleen cells led to a profound t cell immunodeficiency that strongly resembled that observed in acute gvhd . further studies examining the h-2k disparate p ---- f1 combination , c57bl/6 ---- ( c57bl/6xb6 . c-h-2bm1 ) f1 and combined mcmv infection showed that the immunodeficiency is characterized by a profound loss of in vitro th cell production of il-2 and an intrinsic defect in t effector function as shown by an inability of ril-2 to restore defective ctl responses . additional experiments in these mice revealed the presence of suppressor cells as well as significant parent-anti-f1 ctl activity possibly accounting for the suppressor effect . this pattern of immunodeficiency was not seen after the administration of either mcmv or mhc class i disparate parental cells alone . mcmv infection did not detectably alter the immunodeficiency observed in a p ---- f1 combination involving a mhc class ii difference only . these results indicate that mcmv infection can alter the pattern of gvhd in the setting of an mhc class i disparity , but not in the setting of class ii disparity , such that it resembles acute gvhd . these results may have relevance to the human transplant setting where intercurrent cmv infection has been associated with an adverse clinical outcome . 
a small proportion of cationic antibodies in immune complexes is sufficient to mediate their deposition in glomeruli . positively charged antibodies mediate enhanced deposition of circulating immune complexes at the glomerular basement membrane . the presented experiments demonstrate that when soluble immune complexes were prepared with a mixture of antibodies containing 10 to 25 % cationic antibodies , then noncationic antibodies in the complexes were deposited in mouse glomeruli . one or two cationic antibodies in each immune complex sufficed for deposition of the complexes . proof for this was obtained by two kinds of experiments . first , the injected immune complexes were prepared in ag excess from mixtures of radiolabeled noncationic rabbit antibodies to human serum albumin ( hsa ) and unlabeled cationized rabbit antibodies to hsa , thus permitting the specific quantitation of the deposition of noncationic antibodies in glomeruli because of the presence of cationized antibodies within the same complexes . as a control experiment , immune complexes prepared only with noncationic antibodies resulted in very little deposition in kidneys over the same time period . second , detection of the localization of the noncationic antibody in deposits in glomeruli by immunofluorescence microscopy was accomplished using immune complexes prepared with mixtures of noncationic goat antibodies to hsa and cationized rabbit antibodies to hsa . thus , the synthesis of a small population of cationic antibodies during the immune response may lead to the formation of circulating immune complexes with enhanced propensity for deposition in glomeruli in patients with sle or other immune complex diseases . 
ultraviolet cross-linking of helical oligonucleotides to two monoclonal mrl-1pr / 1pr anti-dna autoantibodies . variations in h and l chain binding to dna . experiments were performed to determine whether both h and l chains of different anti-native dna autoantibodies are uniformly involved in binding to dna . two purified monoclonal mouse ( mrl-1pr / 1pr ) igg autoantibodies , h241 and 2c10 , were tested . they both bound synthetic helical oligonucleotides of 10 to 20 base pairs in a gel electrophoresis retardation assay but differed in their preferences for given base sequences . exposure of antibody-radiolabeled oligonucleotide mixtures to uv light ( 254 nm ) for 10 min led to specific covalent cross-linking of oligonucleotide to both the h and the l chains of h241 but only to the h chain of 2c10 . single labeling events were detected without higher aggregation . the oligonucleotides were not cross-linked to unrelated igg , even after 2 h of irradiation . cross-linked ( radioactively labeled ) h and l chains of h241 and 2c10 were isolated from denaturing electrophoresis gels and digested with lysyl endopeptidase and/or staphylococcal v8 protease . h241 and 2c10 h chains each yielded a major labeled peptide fragment , but the peptides from the two antibodies were different . these experiments measured only some of the antibody-dna interactions , probably with bases in the major groove of the dna . they indicated that two mrl-1pr / 1pr igg anti-native dna antibodies differ in their h and l chain contacts with dna and provide an approach to identifying affinity-labeled binding sites in the antibodies . 
in vivo immune selection of a moloney murine leukemia virus-induced tumor results in the loss of viral - but not tumor-associated antigens . a protocol of in vivo immune selection has been used to isolate a variant of the moloney murine leukemia virus ( mulv ) - induced tumor mbl-2 . characterization of the tumor variant indicated that selection resulted in the isolation of a cell which is incapable of producing infectious virus and no longer capable of synthesizing viral proteins . although the failure to express viral ag has rendered the variant tumor cells resistant to lysis by ctl specific for mulv viral ag , the variant tumor cells retained their susceptibility to lysis by ctl which appear to be directed against an mulv-induced tumor-associated ag . the data indicate that the expression of nonviral tumor-associated ag by mbl-2 is not dependent upon continued viral gene expression . 
immunology of aids related to psoriasis . the association of severe psoriasis with hiv infection , which dysregulates and destroys the human immune system , supports the hypothesis that psoriasis is an immunologically mediated disease . psoriasis and kaposi 's sarcoma share angiogenesis as basic early findings and could both be caused by differential cytokine expression or responsiveness . aids and research models including transgenic mice offer new models in which to study the role of the immune system and specific gene products in the pathogenesis of psoriasis and other skin diseases . 
susceptibility to effects of uvb radiation on induction of contact hypersensitivity as a risk factor for skin cancer in humans . normal , healthy human volunteers and patients with proved history of non-melanoma skin cancer have been tested for their capacity to develop contact hypersensitivity to dinitrochlorobenzene ( dncb ) following exposure of buttock skin to acute , low-dose ultraviolet b ( uvb ) radiation . using a radiation protocol that achieves virtually complete depletion of normal-appearing langerhans cells from irradiated skin , it was learned that approximately 60 % of healthy volunteers developed vigorous contact hypersensitivity ( ch ) when 2000 micrograms dncb was painted on the irradiated site . these individuals were designated uvb-resistant , and were distinguished from other individuals , designated uvb-susceptible , who failed to develop contact hypersensitivity following an identical treatment protocol . it was then discovered that virtually all ( 92 % ) skin cancer patients exposed to uvb and dncb failed to develop ch , i.e. , were uvb-susceptible . in subsequent experiments , epicutaneous application of 2000 micrograms dncb to unirradiated skin of uvb-susceptible individuals revealed a further distinction between normal persons and skin cancer patients . approximately 45 % of the latter ( and none of the former ) remained unresponsive ( failed to develop contact hypersensitivity following this second attempt at sensitization ) , implying that they had been rendered immunologically tolerant . these tolerant individuals responded normally to the unrelated hapten , diphencyprone . we conclude that human beings resemble inbred strains of laboratory mice in that some individuals are uvb-susceptible , whereas others are uvb-resistant . because the incidence of uvb-susceptibility was significantly higher in skin cancer patients , and as specific unresponsiveness could be demonstrated only in these patients , we propose that uvb-susceptibility , as we define it in this hapten system , may be a risk factor for the development of skin cancer . 
heterosexual transmission of human immunodeficiency virus among intravenous drug users . to examine sexual transmission of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) among heterosexual intravenous drug users ( ivdus ) , hiv antibody status of ivdus with intravenous drug-using sexual partners ( ivsps ) was compared with that of ivdus with no ivsps . initial bivariate analyses indicated ivdus with ivsps were more likely to be hiv antibody-positive than those with no ivsps . analyses by gender indicated that this relationship held for men but not women . ivdus with ivsps also differed from those without ivsps demographically , in drug use , and in other sexual behaviors . when effects of other variables were controlled , no statistically significant relationship was found between injection history of sex partners and hiv status for the total sample or separately for men or women . 
the role of human immunodeficiency virus infection in pneumococcal bacteremia in san francisco residents . human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) is an important risk factor for invasive pneumococcal disease , but information on clinical course and infecting serotypes is limited . to help develop strategies to reduce the morbidity due to invasive pneumococcal disease , episodes of pneumococcal bacteremia were identified by retrospective review of microbiology records ( november 1983-november 1987 ) at 10 san francisco hospitals and , for patients 20-55 years old living in san francisco , hiv antibody status was determined by review of medical records . pneumococcal isolates from one hospital were serotyped . of 294 patients with pneumococcal bacteremia identified , 32 ( 11 % ) had aids at the time pneumococcal bacteremia was diagnosed and another 43 ( 15 % ) were hiv-infected but did not have aids ; 12 hiv-infected patients developed aids after the episode of pneumococcal bacteremia . the rate of pneumococcal bacteremia in aids patients was estimated to be 9.4 / 1000 patient-years . serotypes of 27 ( 82 % ) of 33 pneumococcal isolates from hiv-infected patients and 107 ( 90 % ) from 119 patients without known hiv infection were among the 23 serotypes included in the currently available polysaccharide vaccine . the rate of pneumococcal bacteremia is approximately 100-fold greater in aids patients in san francisco than rates reported before the aids epidemic , but more than half the episodes of pneumococcal bacteremia in hiv-infected patients occurred in patients without aids . data on pneumococcal serotypes causing invasive disease in hiv-infected patients suggest that the current pneumococcal vaccine , if effective in this population , could provide significant protection against pneumococcal disease . 
circulating immune complex-associated parasite antigens in human onchocerciasis . this study identified and characterized parasite antigens in sera from humans infected with onchocerca volvulus . immune complexes were precipitated from human sera with polyethylene glycol and analyzed by immunoblot with rabbit antibodies to o. volvulus . a 23-kda parasite antigen was detected in sera from 17 of 23 nigerian onchocerciasis patients and 5 of 10 endemic controls . other parasite antigens with apparent molecular masses of 62 , 66 , and 70 kda were less consistently observed . these antigens were not present in nigerian or us nonendemic control sera , in sera from patients with various other parasitic infections , or in sera from us patients with autoimmune diseases . biochemical studies indicated that these antigens are nonglycosylated acidic proteins that do not contain phosphorylcholine . these antigens may be useful as targets for improved diagnostic tests for onchocerciasis based on parasite antigen detection . 
coccidioidomycosis in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients . coccidioidomycosis is at best a complicated fungal infection ; often it is life-threatening . coccidioidomycosis is confined epidemiologically to the southwestern region of the usa , and most cases have occurred in that area , particularly in arizona . however , we have seen several cases in san francisco in patients with only a history of travel to endemic areas . in part because of its regional distribution , information about the clinical presentation , diagnosis , and treatment of patients with coccidioidomycosis has lagged behind information about other , more commonly encountered aids-associated opportunistic infections . drs. galgiani and ampel have probably had the largest single experience with coccidioidomycosis in individuals infected with the human immunodeficiency virus . these specialists share their experience and make recommendations as to how these complicated conditions should be approached . 
activation of the complement system in human immunodeficiency virus infection : relevance of the classical pathway to pathogenesis and disease severity . in vitro studies implicate classical and alternative complement pathway activation in the pathogenesis of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . to ascertain their importance in vivo , activation fragments of the classical ( c4d ) , alternative ( ba ) , and common ( c3d ) pathways were measured and fragment to parent molecule ratios derived in 74 hiv-infected individuals and related to circulating immune complex ( cic ) levels , centers for disease control ( cdc ) stage , and beta 2-microglobulin , neopterin , and cd4-positive ( cd4 + ) lymphocyte levels . all fragments and ratios were significantly higher in patients ( p less than .01 ) than controls . c4 conversion indices ( c4d and c4d to c4 ) increased linearly with increasing cdc stage ( p less than .001 ) , while cd4 + lymphocytes decreased linearly ( p less than .001 ) . c4d , c3d , c4d to c4 , and c3d to c3 correlated with increasing cic and beta 2-microglobulin , and c4d and c4d to c4 correlated with decreasing cd4 + lymphocytes ( p less than .05 ) . the relationship of classical complement pathway activation to disease progression and cd4 + lymphocytes suggests its involvement in the pathogenesis of hiv infection . 
azt demonstrates anti-hiv-1 activity in persistently infected cell lines : implications for combination chemotherapy and immunotherapy . a sensitive and quantitative focal immunoassay has been used to measure the effects of three different therapeutic agents on tissue culture cells infected with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) . the effects of the drugs were studied on both acutely and persistently infected cd4 + cell lines . the three agents , azidothymidine ( azt ) , interferon-alpha ( ifn-alpha ) , and an anti-hiv envelope antibody coupled to ricin a chain , were tested alone and in combination . azt was found to have its greatest effect during early stages of the infection , but also had an action on persistently infected t cell lines . the effect of azt on persistently infected cells was seen within 24 h , increased with extended exposure to the drug , and persisted after its removal . ifn-alpha had variable effects on acutely infected cells but suppressed chronic infection . combinations of the therapeutic agents were studied . using a model that allowed for treatment during both acute and persistent stages of infection , the most effective combination in suppressing hiv infection was the continual use of both azt and ifn-alpha at the highest tolerable doses . knowledge of the efficacy of azt on persistently infected cells will allow for the most effective design of clinical protocols . 
analysis of lymphocytes , monocytes , and neutrophils from human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - infected persons for hiv dna . the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infects and depletes or alters the function of cells involved in immune responsiveness . while both t helper lymphocytes and monocyte/macrophages can be infected via cell-surface cd4 in vitro , previous studies showed that few blood cells express hiv rna in vivo . this study used dna amplification to determine the levels of hiv dna in purified lymphocytes , monocytes , and neutrophils from hiv-infected asymptomatic individuals and persons with aids . the average numbers of hiv dna copies in lymphocytes from aids patients and asymptomatic individuals were similar ( approximately 100-140 copies/150 ,000 cells ) . however , when expressed on the basis of numbers of cd4 + t cells , aids patients ' cells contained approximately 2.5 times more hiv dna . while hiv dna was present in lymphocytes from all 27 subjects , little or no hiv dna was observed in monocytes or neutrophils . only 1 asymptomatic person contained levels of hiv dna in monocytes ( 125 proviral copies/150 ,000 cells ) that were comparable to levels expressed in lymphocytes ( 160/150 ,000 ) . while expression of monocyte hiv dna in this person was persistent over at least 8 months , it was not observed in neutrophils , suggesting that monocyte hiv dna did not originate in myeloid precursors . this study shows that in aids or asymptomatic hiv infection , lymphocytes are the predominant infected cell found in blood . 
quantitative detection of brain aberrations in human immunodeficiency virus type 1-infected individuals by magnetic resonance imaging . the brains of 65 individuals with antibodies to human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) , 20 hiv-1 seronegative homosexual men , and 75 heterosexual controls were examined by a quantitative magnetic resonance imaging technique . a white matter aberration was detected most frequently in patients with aids-related complex ( arc ) or aids , but also in asymptomatic hiv-1 seropositive persons and in hiv-1 seronegative homosexual men , of whom two of three tested were reactive for hiv-1 dna by polymerase chain reaction . the aberration was not found in the control group . brain atrophy was mainly confined to patients with arc or aids . the brain lesions correlated with the presence of hiv-1 in cerebrospinal fluid and with elevated levels of beta 2-microglobulin and neopterin . the most pronounced brain aberrations were in patients with aids-dementia complex . these findings indicate that brain aberrations may occur in persons in the early stages of hiv-1 infection , although to no greater extent than in hiv-1 seronegative homosexual men . the occurrence of pronounced brain lesions seems to be associated with the presence of an advanced immunodeficiency . 
seroprevalence of human t cell leukemia viruses in selected populations of homosexual men . this study sought to define the seroprevalence of human t cell leukemia virus ( htlv ) types i and ii in selected populations of homosexual men . serum specimens were screened for antibodies to htlv and to human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) by enzyme immunoassay ; successive testing of specimens with positive results was done by western blotting and radioimmunoprecipitation assay ( ripa ) and then by polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) assay on available peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( pbmc ) . of 1290 specimens , only 4 had antibodies against htlv confirmed by ripa . pcr analysis of dna from pbmc from two subjects showed one to be htlv-i and the other to be htlv-ii ; both men also had hiv antibodies . these results demonstrate a lower seroprevalence rate for htlv than some previous studies and emphasize the need for specific confirmatory tests . 
confocal microscopic detection of human immunodeficiency virus rna-producing cells . a central anomaly in the pathogenesis of aids is that few actively infected cd4 + cells ( 1 in 10 ( 4 ) -10 ( 5 ) have been detected in the peripheral blood , even though dramatic depletion ( often greater than 90 % ) of cd4 + cells is the hallmark of disease progression . a sensitive , 35s-based human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) rna in situ hybridization technique was coupled with a new detection method , confocal laser scanning microscopy , to examine transcriptionally active hiv-infected cells from individuals at different disease stages . in 35 symptomatic hiv-infected individuals ( aids and aids related complex ) , an average of 1 in 350 mononuclear cells produced hiv rna . in contrast , in an asymptomatic group of 30 individuals , an average of 1 in 2000 mononuclear cells produced hiv rna . these data , obtained using this improved detection method , suggest there are more hiv rna-producing cells in hiv-infected individuals than previously reported . in addition , increased numbers of hiv transcribing cells were found to correlate with declining clinical condition as assessed by karnofsky performance score . these data suggest that viremia per se may account for the pathologic consequences in hiv infection . 
frequency of indeterminate western blot tests in healthy adults at low risk for human immunodeficiency virus infection . the niaid aids vaccine clinical trails network . as part of a phase 1 trial of a candidate aids vaccine , blood specimens were collected from 168 healthy adult volunteers at minimal or no risk for becoming infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) . these specimens were screened for evidence of hiv-1 infection by enzyme immunoassay ( eia ) and the biotech/du pont western blot ( n = 168 ) , culture ( n = 122 ) , and polymerase chain reaction assay ( n = 20 ) . none of the subjects had a positive test result by any of these assays , but 32 % had indeterminate western blot tests , most of which demonstrated a single band of low intensity . the most common bands were p24 ( 47 % ) , p55 ( 34 % ) , and p66 ( 36 % ) ; envelope bands were unusual ( gp41 , 2 % ; gp120 , 2 % ) . no serum specimen collected after 2-11 months from individuals with indeterminate western blot results was positive by eia or western blot . there was 91 % agreement in the test results of the first and second serum samples when the same lot of western blot kit was used but only 36 % agreement when different lots were used . the biotech/du pont western blot kit thus frequently yields indeterminate test results in the absence of hiv-1 infection , the reproducibility of which is subject to lot-to-lot variability . 
serum immunoglobulins e and g anti-aspergillus fumigatus antibody in patients with cystic fibrosis who have allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis . patients with cystic fibrosis frequently have pulmonary colonization with aspergillus fumigatus ( af ) and develop anti-af immunoglobulin e ( ige ) and igg antibodies . the diagnosis of allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis in subjects with cystic fibrosis is difficult because of the high incidence of af colonization , with development of humoral antibody responses . in this study , we sequentially measured serum anti-af ige ( af-e ) and igg ( af-g ) antibodies by elisa in subjects with cystic fibrosis . in subjects with cystic fibrosis who have allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis , af-e and af-g antibodies were significantly increased when compared with other groups of patients with cystic fibrosis who had positive skin tests or precipitins to af ( or both ) ( p less than 0.01 , p less than 0.01 , respectively ) . in addition , increased af-e and af-g levels were sometimes seen in other groups , especially subjects with cystic fibrosis who had positive af skin tests or precipitin tests , two of whom later developed criteria diagnostic of allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis . thus , serum af-e and af-g levels were quantitatively increased in subjects with cystic fibrosis who had allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis and thus adjunctive data in diagnosis . however , it also suggested that subclinical pulmonary inflammation may also occur . 
unusual lymphoproliferative oropharyngeal lesions in heart and heart-lung transplant recipients . three unusual cases of oropharyngeal lympho-proliferative lesions were seen in recipients of heart and heart-lung transplants . two caused acute upper respiratory obstruction necessitating urgent ent intervention . all patients were receiving immunosuppressive drugs including cyclosporin . the two obstructive cases were adenotonsillar enlargement in a 6-year-old , and a tumour of the tonsil and tongue base with cervical lymph node enlargement in a 32-year-old male . both were caused by epstein-barr virus-associated lymphoproliferative disorder . the third patient , a 32-year-old female , had a presumed low grade t-cell lymphoma that regressed spontaneously . histopathological diagnosis of these lympho-proliferative disorders after transplantation usually requires immunocytochemistry to distinguish polyclonal proliferative disorders from true lymphoma . polyclonal lymphoproliferative disorders after transplantation do not usually require aggressive cytoreductive therapy , but respond to simple measures such as the reduction of immunosuppression . 
mid-line presentation of cervical lymphomata . three cases of lymphoma are reported , all of which presented as a mid-line cervical swelling and appeared to be localised disease . the importance of early removal of such lesions is emphasized . 
determination of human immunodeficiency virus antibody status in forensic autopsy cases in vancouver using a recombinant immunoblot assay . sera from 207 forensic autopsy cases were tested for the presence of antibody to the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) using a recombinant immunoblot assay ( riba ) technique developed by chiron corporation of emeryville , california -- the chiron riba-hiv216 test system . out of these cases , 172 autopsies were of individuals with no known risk factors for hiv infection , and of these , 169 had no detectable antibodies to hiv . in 2 cases , the serum reacted with p24 alone on the riba-hiv216 assay , but these results were not confirmed by further testing and are considered to be false positive reactions . in 1 case , the serum reacted only with gp41 on the riba-hiv216 test but was nonreactive with further testing . this result has been designated equivocal . of the 35 cases at high risk of hiv infection , 4 had antibodies to hiv detected in postmortem serum samples . the sensitivity ( 100 % ) and specificity ( 98.5 % ) of the riba-hiv216 test system are high . however , the test appears to be more suitable for routine diagnosis of hiv infection than for rapid screening in the mortuary . 
causes of death in hospitalized intravenous drug abusers . the authors reviewed at autopsy the causes of death of 274 patients with evidence of intravenous drug abuse who had been admitted to a large public hospital . there were 127 who died from diseases unrelated to intravenous drug abuse , and in 41 % of these , chronic alcoholism was implicated . deaths from overdose syndromes and drug-related organ pathology comprised only 11 % of all cases . the mean age at death was 39 years . there was a male/female ratio of 3.6:1 . half of all patients died from infection -- 72 from acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) alone . these findings indicate that persons hospitalized with a history of intravenous drug abuse usually die from causes other than overdose and that aids and chronic alcoholism are significant problems . emphasis should be placed upon detecting " hidden " intravenous drug deaths to provide more accurate statistical information . 
psychological functioning in a cohort of gay men at risk for aids . a three-year descriptive study . this study describes the mental health of a large cohort of gay men participating in the chicago multicenter aids cohort study/coping and change study . six biannual questionnaires were self-administered between 1984 and 1988 . general mental health was determined by the hopkins symptom checklist ( hscl ) . an abbreviated version of the center for epidemiologic study depression scale ( cesd-5 ) and an adapted diagnostic interview schedule ( dis ) question also measured depression . suicidal ideation was assessed by one question in the hscl . aids-specific distress was determined by three subscales specifically developed for this study . while mean hscl and cesd-5 scores were stable during the observational period , aids-specific distress increased over time . the hscl scores for the cohort were somewhat elevated above general population norms but considerably below psychiatric outpatient norms . fewer than 12 % of the men reported elevated hscl or cesd-5 scores three or more times . a self-reported episode of depression of two weeks or more , measured by the dis screening question , was experienced by 40.1 % of the sample . suicidal ideation was reported on three or more visits by 18.8 % of the men . the younger members of this cohort exhibit greater general and aids-specific distress . income was inversely associated with general distress . hiv-seropositive participants had generally higher aids-specific distress scores than those who were seronegative , but their scores were equivalent on the hscl and cesd-5 . 
headaches and multiple sclerosis : a clinical study and review of the literature . whether multiple sclerosis ( ms ) can cause headaches is controversial . to clarify the association between headaches and ms we prospectively analyzed 104 consecutive ms patients using detailed headache evaluations . fifty-four patients ( 52 % ) reported headaches , compared with 5 of 35 ( 14 % ) patients initially suspected to have ms but subsequently proven to have other disorders , and 18 of 100 ( 18 % ) matched general neurology patients . the ms patients had tension headaches or vascular headaches of the migraine type ; there was no distinctive " ms headache . " seven of these patients had headaches with their first ms symptoms , but in only one did headaches recur with disease activity . headaches did not correlate with any clinical features of ms. we conclude that an association between headaches and ms may exist . 
serial studies of evoked potentials and circulating lymphocyte subsets for multiple sclerosis : attempts to monitor progress . a concurrent change in evoked potential measurements and quantitation of circulating t-suppressor ( cd8 ) lymphocyte subpopulations might indicate increased subclinical disease activity . eight untreated patients with clinically definite multiple sclerosis were monitored monthly for changes in the numbers of cells positive for cd8 markers , and hence in the ratio of cd4 : cd8 positive cells . such changes were found not to be associated with changes in evoked potentials or clinical status . 
treatment of metastatic melanoma with an autologous tumor-cell vaccine : clinical and immunologic results in 64 patients . we treated 64 patients with metastatic melanoma using a melanoma vaccine preceded by low-dose cyclophosphamide ( cy ) , and monitored immunologic effects and antitumor activity . on day 0 , the patients were given cy 300 mg/m2 intravenously . three days later , they were injected intradermally with vaccine consisting of 10 to 25 x 10 ( 6 ) autologous , enzymatically dissociated , cryopreserved , irradiated ( 25 gy ) tumor cells mixed with bacillus calmette-guerin ( bcg ) . this treatment sequence was repeated every 28 days . of 40 assessable patients with measurable metastases , five had responses , four complete and one partial , with a median duration of 10 months ( 7 to 84 + months ) . in six additional patients , we observed an antitumor response that seems to be peculiar to this vaccine therapy : the regression of metastatic lesions that appeared after the immunotherapy was begun . delayed-type hypersensitivity ( dth ) to autologous , mechanically dissociated melanoma cells that had not been exposed to extraneous antigens , such as enzymes or fetal calf serum , increased significantly following immunotherapy ( day 0 v day 49 , p less than .001 ; day 0 v day 161 , p less than .001 ; day 0 v day 217 , p = .021 ) . antitumor responses to the vaccine were strongly associated with dth , as indicated by three observations : ( 1 ) eight of 10 patients who exhibited tumor regression had positive dth , ( 2 ) in postsurgical adjuvant patients , there was a highly significant linear relationship ( p less than .001 ) between the intensity of dth to autologous melanoma cells and the time to recurrence of tumor , and ( 3 ) nine patients who developed dth to the autologous melanoma cells in their original vaccine developed new metastases that failed to elicit dth or elicited a much smaller response . in three cases , we were able to excise regressing tumors for histologic examination ; such tumors were characterized by an intense infiltration of lymphocytes . this demonstration that an immune response to melanoma-associated antigens can be elicited in cancer-bearing patients provides some basis for optimism about the prospects for developing active immunotherapy that has practical therapeutic value . 
an early phase ii study of cpt-11 : a new derivative of camptothecin , for the treatment of leukemia and lymphoma . an early phase ii study of a new camptothecin analog and an inhibitor of topoisomerase i , cpt-11 , was conducted in 62 patients with refractory leukemia and lymphoma by four different treatment schedules in a multiinstitutional cooperative study . cpt-11 therapy resulted in four complete remissions ( crs ) and three partial remissions ( prs ) in 29 assessable non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( nhl ) patients , one pr in three hodgkin 's disease ( hd ) , one cr and one pr in 11 acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) , and one pr in 15 acute myelogenous leukemia ( aml ) patients . single infusion of 200 mg/m2 every 3 to 4 weeks produced no response in both leukemia and lymphoma patients . sixty-minute infusions of 40 mg/m2/d for 5 days every 3 to 4 weeks or for 3 days weekly produced four crs ( 17 % ) and four prs ( 17 % ) in 24 patients with malignant lymphoma . sixty-minute infusions of 20 mg/m2 twice a day for 7 days every 3 to 4 weeks resulted in one cr and two prs in 12 patients with acute leukemia . no response was seen in an acute leukemia patient by another treatment schedule . cpt-11 was effective in two ( 15 % ) of 13 primarily refractory leukemia and lymphoma cases , in two of four relapsed cases , and in seven ( 17 % ) of 41 relapsed and refractory cases . major side effects were leukopenia ( 91 % ) and gastrointestinal ( gi ) ( 76 % ) . cpt-11 was shown to be effective against refractory leukemia and lymphoma , and thus deserves further clinical study ; the novel antitumor activity mode of this drug predicts no cross-resistance to presently available antitumor drugs . 
gallium-67 imaging : a predictor of residual tumor viability and clinical outcome in patients with diffuse large-cell lymphoma . durable complete remissions ( crs ) can be achieved in patients with diffuse large-cell lymphoma ( dlcl ) with multidrug chemotherapy . the length of time to reach cr may be predictive of treatment outcome . however , defining cr by chest radiograph or computed tomography ( ct ) is often difficult since residual abnormalities do not always indicate residual disease . we have prospectively evaluated the ability of gallium-67 citrate ( ga-67 ) imaging to define residual disease and predict outcome in 37 consecutive patients with dlcl . patients received 296 to 370 megabecquerels ( mbq ) ga-67 and were imaged prior to , following cycles 4 to 6 , and at completion of intensive chemotherapy . ga-67 scan results were correlated with radiographic studies . seventeen of 37 patients ( 46 % ) showed persistent , abnormal ga-67 uptake halfway through chemotherapy . of these , four were in cr , 11 were in partial remission ( pr ) , and two showed no change in tumor size . at follow-up , 10 ( 59 % ) have died ( three who were scored as cr and seven who were in pr halfway through therapy ) , two are alive with active tumor , one relapsed and survives following bone marrow transplant , and four ( three in pr and one in cr at the therapeutic halfway point ) are without disease at a median of 28 months from presentation . of the 20 patients who were ga-67-negative halfway through therapy , 11 were in cr and nine were in pr . five of 20 patients ( 25 % ) have died . three , in radiographic cr died at 11 , 26 , and 28 months , and two in radiographic pr died at 15 and 17 months . one patient is alive with active tumor , and 14 patients ( 70 % ) are alive without disease at a median of 34 months from presentation . ga-67 imaging proved to be an excellent indicator of residual viable tumor ; a positive scan halfway through therapy predicted for a poor outcome and may well justify a change in treatment . 
magnetic resonance imaging contrast agents : theory and application to the central nervous system . the theoretical aspects of magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging contrast agents are reviewed , and their current applications to the central nervous system ( cns ) and their future applications are discussed . profound differences exist between contrast agents used for mr imaging and computerized tomography ( ct ) . in mr imaging , the contrast agents are not imaged directly but rather act on adjacent protons to shorten t1 and t2 relaxation times . this in turn results in signal intensity changes . the lanthanide metal , gadolinium , in the form of gadopentetate dimeglumine , has been found to be both safe and efficacious as the only currently approved contrast agent for mr imaging . magnetic resonance imaging revolutionized the detection and treatment of disease affecting the brain and spine . initially , it was thought that signal characteristics on mr imaging would allow differentiation of specific pathology . it was soon found that mr studies were able to detect more abnormalities but were less able to characterize them . the recent development of contrast agents for mr imaging has allowed this modality to surpass ct for the evaluation of most cns lesions . at present , contrast-enhanced mr imaging is generally accepted as the study of choice for evaluating acoustic neurinomas , pituitary lesions , meningeal disease , primary and secondary brain tumors , active multiple sclerosis , intradural spinal neoplasms , intramedullary spinal disease , and postoperative states in both the spine and brain . even when contrast-enhanced ct can detect the same abnormalities , evaluation of the lesions in multiple planes on mr imaging can sometimes yield invaluable information , especially prior to surgery . future developments of contrast material for mr imaging include non-gadolinium compounds , intrathecal contrast media , cerebral blood flow and volume evaluation , and , possibly , antibody-labeled contrast agents . 
toxoplasmosis of the conus medullaris in a patient with hemophilia a-associated aids . case report . toxoplasma gondii has been reported to be the most common cause of focal brain lesions in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . a case of intramedullary toxoplasmosis of the conus medullaris is reported in a patient with hemophilia a-associated aids . the diagnosis is discussed , with particular emphasis on the magnetic resonance imaging appearance . 
needlestick injuries among resident physicians . objective : to assess the frequency and causes of needlestick injuries in medical and surgical housestaff . design : a retrospective survey . setting : urban university teaching hospital . participants : 386 housestaff ; 221 responded . intervention : survey questionnaire . main results : 1 ) frequency of needlestick : of 221 respondents , 57 ( 26 % ) reported never having had a needlestick , while 164 ( 74 % ) reported at least one needlestick injury with a suture or hollow-bore needle . the average frequencies were 0.63 per resident-year among 149 non-surgical residents and 3.8 per resident-year among 72 surgical residents . among residents in internal medicine , 12 of 78 needlestick injuries ( 15 % ) sustained were from patients documented to be hiv-positive . 2 ) causes of needlestick : the causes of injury were assessed in detail in a sample of the 157 most recent needlestick injuries . suturing was the cause in 35 of 61 ( 57 % ) surgical residents , while recapping needles was the cause in 36 of 96 ( 38 % ) non-surgical residents . inexperience was not the cause of injury ; in 94 % of cases the residents felt comfortable performing the procedure , and in 74 % of cases the residents had performed the procedure more than 50 times before . 3 ) reporting of injury : only 30 ( 19 % ) of 157 injuries were reported to the personnel health service , thus compromising documentation for potential workmen 's compensation . conclusions : needlestick injuries are common among medical and surgical housestaff . efforts should be made to prevent needlestick injuries and to report those that occur . 
sexual practices : are physicians addressing the issues ? the literature suggests that prior to 1981 , the only groups concerned with sexual history taking were urologists , psychiatrists , and gynecologists . the appearance of aids , however , has made competency in this area of interviewing essential for all primary care physicians . the teaching of sexual history taking presents a challenge to educators , since it involves all three educational domains -- cognitive , affective , and skills . the authors have developed an approach to teaching sexual history taking to providers in small groups utilizing videotapes that model the content and sequence of questions and confront learners about the fears and the emotional concerns they may have in obtaining these data . 
dideoxycytidine alone and in an alternating schedule with zidovudine in children with symptomatic human immunodeficiency virus infection . objective : to determine whether a short course of 2 ' ,3 ' - dideoxycytidine ( ddc ) could provide safe antiretroviral activity in children with symptomatic human immunodeficiency virus infection and whether it could be used with azidothymidine ( azt , zidovudine ) . the goal was to maintain uninterrupted antiretroviral therapy while sparing azt-related myelosuppression and ddc-related neuropathy . methods : in a pilot study , we evaluated four dosage levels of ddc -- 0.015 , 0.02 , 0.03 , and 0.04 mg/kg , given orally every 6 hours -- in 15 children between 6 months and 13 years of age with centers for disease control p2 ( i.e. , symptomatic ) human immunodeficiency virus infection . thirteen patients had not had any prior antiretroviral therapy ; two patients had received and benefited from azt , but dose-limiting neutropenia had developed . at each dosage level , ddc was given for 8 consecutive weeks and then stopped . after a 30-day rest , a schedule of ddc for 1 week was followed by 3 weeks of azt therapy ( 180 mg/m2 every 6 hours ) ; this alternating schedule was repeated for as long as tolerated . age-appropriate psychometric testing was performed before the start of ddc therapy and after 8 weeks . results : during the 8 weeks of therapy with ddc alone , no neutropenia or anemia was observed ; 6 of 9 patients had decreases in p24 antigen levels , and 8 of 15 had an increased cd4 cell count . at the 0.04 mg/kg level , a rash developed in three patients ; mild mouth sores developed in 9 of 15 patients . on the alternating ddc/azt schedule , no neuropathy was observed . conclusions : 2 ' ,3 ' - dideoxycytidine has antiretroviral activity in some children and appears to be safe for short intervals . longer courses of ddc at lower dosage levels , and schedules integrating ddc into combination regimens , deserve to be explored . 
evaluation of the aids dementia complex in clinical trials . the aids dementia complex ( adc ) is one of the most common and important causes of morbidity associated with infection by human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) . the evaluation of adc in clinical trials is significant not only because of the clinical impact of this syndrome , but also because of the value of measuring its cardinal features as an index of drug efficacy and because of its emerging role as a major clinical end point . the objectives of therapy include both prevention of adc in the presymptomatic patient and alleviation of established disease . at present , the pathogenesis of adc is incompletely understood in several critical aspects , particularly the processes underlying the clinical manifestations of central nervous system ( cns ) hiv-1 infection and , further , how such processes are related to systemic disease . consequently , it is not yet clear to what extent , or in which patients , it is necessary to achieve " therapeutic " drug levels within the cns . nevertheless , the assessment of adc prevention and treatment relies principally on the complementary approach of neurological examination for diagnosis and neuropsychological testing for quantitative serial measurement of treatment effects . additionally , surrogate markers in cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) may hold promise for objective , rapid assessment of treatment response and dose adjustment . other measurements , including more routine csf analysis , neuroimaging , and neurophysiological assessments , are used principally for differential diagnosis rather than for monitoring adc status . accumulating experience with available antiviral agents suggests that adc can be effectively prevented and treated , at least for some period of time , and that assessment of this condition is indeed a valuable approach for measuring antiviral therapy . 
evaluation of active control trials in aids . in settings in which effective standard treatment exists , active control trials provide an ethically appealing approach to evaluating experimental therapies by allowing all patients to be randomized either to a promising new regimen or to the standard as it would be routinely delivered in clinical practice . this paper describes an appropriate statistical approach for analyzing the clinical efficacy of new treatments in such studies . confidence intervals for the relative efficacy of the new treatment vis-a-vis standard therapy are used to provide information required to determine whether the experimental treatment has an improved therapeutic index . desirable properties of this approach include the ability to implement standard group sequential guidelines for early trial termination , the ability to use valid surrogates for hard clinical outcomes , and the availability of straightforward formulas for sample size calculations . 
testicular carcinoma in patients positive and at risk for human immunodeficiency virus . patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome are at increased risk for certain malignancies . because acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and testicular cancer affect primarily young men , the potential complications that acquired immunodeficiency syndrome might impose raise significant concern . to address this question we performed a retrospective review of all cases of testicular cancer during an 11-year period . of 140 patients 6 had human immunodeficiency virus infection and 7 were from human immunodeficiency virus risk groups . all cases were either stage i or ii disease with seminoma in 8 , teratocarcinoma in 3 , embryonal cell carcinoma in 1 and teratoma in 1 . the clinical presentations of these patients were comparable to those of patients without human immunodeficiency virus risk factors . the majority of the patients received standard therapy , including orchiectomy followed by lymphadenectomy , radiation therapy or chemotherapy depending on stage and pathological subtype . patients tolerated therapy well with only 1 course of radiation therapy complicated by pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . all patients achieved complete remission and none died of testicular cancer . since treatment of these patients may worsen the immunosuppression , surveillance is recommended after orchiectomy for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome patients with stage i disease . however , the majority of patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection should receive standard therapy . 
hiv infection , pregnant women , and newborns . a policy proposal for information and testing . working group on hiv testing of pregnant women and newborns as the public health impact of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection in women and children has increased , so has interest in screening pregnant women and newborns for evidence of hiv infection . however , screening of pregnant women and newborns raises profound moral , legal , and policy issues . in this article , we present and defend a detailed 10-point program of policy recommendations for both pregnant women and newborns . we advocate informing all pregnant women and new mothers about the hiv epidemic and the availability of testing . 
anaphylaxis following ingestion of a psyllium-containing cereal . recently , psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid , a bulk-forming laxative , has been added to breakfast cereals for cholesterol-lowering effects . we report a case of a 60-year-old woman with no prior history of psyllium ingestion who developed anaphylactic symptoms after eating a psyllium-containing cereal . her only previous exposure was dispensing a psyllium-containing laxative as a nurse . immunoglobulin e-mediated sensitization was documented by skin testing and basophil histamine release . the literature is reviewed regarding allergic reactions to psyllium . health care workers and pharmaceutical workers handling psyllium may be at increased risk due to sensitization from inhalation . physicians and consumers should be aware of potential serious reactions from eating psyllium-containing cereals even without prior history of ingestion of psyllium . 
the hiv-testing policies of us hospitals to determine the human immunodeficiency virus-testing policies adopted by us hospitals , we surveyed a stratified random sample of all nonfederal general acute care hospitals , drawn from the american hospital association 's 1987 database . interviews were completed with the chief administrator in 561 hospitals ( response rate , 78.4 % ) . two thirds of hospitals have admitted at least one patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , and over 83 % have formal written policies about human immunodeficiency virus testing . most contain provisions protecting patients ' rights ; eg , 78 % require pretest informed consent , 66 % require a special human immunodeficiency virus-testing consent form , and 75 % require that patients who test seropositive be so informed . many policies also contain provisions that protect providers ; eg , 56 % require that test results appear in patients ' records , 38 % require review of treatment plans when a patient tests seropositive , and 3 % require transferring such patients . hospital characteristics are not strongly associated with the adoption of testing policies . 
practicalities of lipids : icu patient , autoimmune disease , and vascular disease . although the use of lipids should be individualized , certain generalizations are appropriate . 1 . lipid infusion should be limited in the fulminately septic patient to 10 % of total calories in an effort to reduce immunosuppression . 2 . the stressed , nonseptic patient with difficulties in ventilator weaning or tpn-induced hepatic dysfunction may reap benefit from a reduction in dextrose calories and the provision of daily lipids . 3 . patients with severe autoimmune disease have had mild amelioration of symptoms with pufa supplementation . the relative benefits of omega-6 vs omega-3 continue to be examined . 4 . dietary immunomodulation in transplant and burns remains an area of active investigation . 5 . patients with fat-free tpn show transient declines in serum lipids . the development of a " fat-solubilizer " remains in the experimental realm . 6 . the provision of fish oil , high in w-3 epa , has shown promise in atherosclerosis and immunomodulation . the changes in the relative amounts of each prostaglandin class depend on precursor prevalence . 
parathyroid hormone-related peptide in plasma of patients with hypercalcemia and malignant lesions we developed and validated a radioimmunoassay for circulating human parathyroid hormone-related peptide ( pthrp ) , based on a commercial antiserum to the synthetic 1-34 fragment of pthrp , 125i-tyr degrees-pthrp ( 1-34 ) as radioligand , and prior extraction of the native peptide from plasma with c-2 cartridges . we determined immunoreactive pthrp concentrations in plasma samples from 48 healthy persons ( mean + / - sd , 3.1 + / - 1.0 pmol/liter ; range , less than 2 to 5 pmol/liter ) , 8 patients with primary hyperparathyroidism , 36 patients with hypercalcemia and a concurrent malignant lesion , and 9 normocalcemic patients with cancer and increased serum levels of carcinoembryonic antigen or prostate-specific antigen . pthrp was normal in samples from patients with primary hyperparathyroidism ( 3.2 + / - 1.1 pmol/liter ) , secondary hyperparathyroidism ( 2.5 + / - 1.3 pmol/liter ) , and cancer without hypercalcemia ( 2.4 + / - 1.0 pmol/liter ) . in contrast , plasma immunoreactive pthrp levels were increased ( 6.0 to 85.0 pmol/liter ) in 47 % of patients with hypercalcemia and cancer of various types , with or without bone metastatic lesions . large amounts of pthrp were also found in conditioned medium from cultured human prostatic carcinoma cells . thus , pthrp may be a causative factor for hypercalcemia associated with a malignant lesion in at least half of the cases . measurement of circulating pthrp may be of differential diagnostic help in hypercalcemic states . 
diagnosis of malignant cardiac disease by endomyocardial biopsy among oncology patients , endomyocardial biopsy has been used primarily for the evaluation of anthracycline cardiotoxicity . in addition , however , endomyocardial biopsy may be useful for the detection of malignant cardiac neoplasms . between 1982 and 1989 , metastatic involvement of the heart was diagnosed by endomyocardial biopsy in seven patients at our institution . all except one of these patients were older than 50 years of age and had dyspnea as an initial symptom , and all had a known malignant lesion . results of endomyocardial biopsy confirmed cardiac involvement by a hematologic malignant lesion in four patients and metastatic melanoma in two patients . in one patient , who had a history of breast cancer and lymphoma , a metastatic neoplasm of uncertain differentiation was observed . myocyte damage was evident in endomyocardial biopsy specimens from two of the four patients with hematologic malignant disease . endomyocardial biopsy was performed to confirm the possibility of metastatic involvement in five patients ; in the other two , endomyocardial biopsy was performed to determine whether anthracycline cardiotoxicity was present , and metastatic involvement was unanticipated . 
type-specific antigens for serological discrimination of htlv-i and htlv-ii infection . 55 htlv-i ( human t-cell lymphotropic virus ) and 45 htlv-ii carriers , confirmed by htlv-type specific polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) , were distinguished by western blot assays with recombinant htlv i or ii envelope glycoproteins . recombinant protein ( rp ) b1 contains aminoacids 166-201 from htlv-i exterior glycoprotein gp46 and was reactive with htlv-i samples only . rp-iib , which contains aminoacids 96-235 from htlv-ii exterior glycoprotein gp52 , was reactive with all htlv-ii samples . 39 patients ( 86.6 % ) had high reactivity by densitometry . of 55 htlv-i samples , 35 ( 65.5 % ) had antibody reactivity to rp-iib , but only 1 ( 1.8 % ) had high reactivity by densitometry . rp b1 and iib western blot assays may replace the pcr test in diagnosis of htlv infection . 
protection against allergen-induced asthma by salmeterol . the effects of the long-acting beta 2-agonist salmeterol on early and late phase airways events provoked by inhaled allergen were assessed in a group of atopic asthmatic patients . in a placebo-controlled study , salmeterol 50 micrograms inhaled before allergen challenge ablated both the early and late phase of allergen-induced bronchoconstriction over a 34 h time period . salmeterol also completely inhibited the allergen-induced rise in non-specific bronchial responsiveness over the same time period . these effects were shown to be unrelated to prolonged bronchodilatation or functional antagonism . these data suggest novel actions for topically active long-acting beta 2-agonists in asthma that extend beyond their protective action on airways smooth muscle . 
infective dermatitis of jamaican children : a marker for htlv-i infection in jamaican children infective dermatitis is a chronic eczema associated with refractory nonvirulent staphylococcus aureus or beta-haemolytic streptococcus infection of the skin and nasal vestibule . 14 children between the ages of 2 and 17 years with typical infective dermatitis , attending the dermatology clinic at the university hospital of the west indies in jamaica , were tested for antibody to human t-lymphotropic virus type 1 ( htlv-1 ) . all were seropositive , whereas 11 children of similar age with atopic eczema were all negative . in 2 of 2 cases of infective dermatitis , the biological mother was htlv-1 seropositive . none of the 14 patients showed signs of adult t-cell leukaemia/lymphoma , though experience with previous cases of infective dermatitis indicates the possibility of such progression . 
angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors and anaphylactoid reactions to high-flux membrane dialysis in a retrospective study , 9 of 236 haemodialysis patients treated with high-flux polyacrylonitrile ' an 69 ' membranes were found to have had anaphylactoid reactions . treatment with angiotensin-converting-enzyme ( ace ) inhibitors had been recently started in all 9 affected patients ; only 5 of 227 unaffected patients had been treated with ace inhibitors , and anaphylactoid reactions disappeared after discontinuation of ace inhibitors . 
primary central nervous system lymphoma in patients with and without the acquired immune deficiency syndrome . a retrospective analysis and review of the literature . twenty-two cases of pcl were reviewed , in which 9 patients had aids and 13 did not . a review of the literature identified 247 cases of aids-related pcl . differences between patients with aids and immunocompetent pcl were noted in our series . aids-related pcl when compared to non-aids pcl in our series has the following notable clinical features : 1 ) significantly younger age at presentation , median age 34 versus 59 years ; 2 ) significantly higher incidence of b symptoms , 44 % versus 8 % ; 3 ) worse median performance status at presentation , 3 versus 1 ; and , 4 ) shorter median survival , 3 versus 10 months . differences in performance status and survival , however , were not significant . aids-related pcl is further characterized by frequent ( 44 % ) ring-enhancing mass lesions on head ct scan , a finding that makes it clinically difficult to distinguish from toxoplasmosis . median survival appears to be improved in the absence of opportunistic infection at time of diagnosis of pcl , 6 versus 2 months . the therapeutic approach to patients with pcl , with and without aids , is variable . combined modality therapy may improve the survival in patients with non-aids pcl . therapy for patients with aids-related pcl is tailored to the status of the individual and it is , therefore , difficult to make comparisons to non-aids pcl patients . aids patients are often too ill to tolerate aggressive surgery or systemic treatment and in this instance , radiotherapy alone may be an acceptable alternative . nonetheless , overall survival for patients with aids-related and non-aids pcl remains poor . 
disseminated histoplasmosis in the acquired immune deficiency syndrome : clinical findings , diagnosis and treatment , and review of the literature . histoplasmosis is a serious opportunistic infection in patients with aids , often representing the first manifestation of the syndrome . most infections occurring within the endemic region are caused by exogenous exposure , while those occurring in nonendemic areas may represent endogenous reactivation of latent foci of infection or exogenous exposure to microfoci located within those nonendemic regions . however , prospective investigations are needed to prove the mode of acquisition . the infection usually begins in the lungs even though the chest roentgenogram may be normal . clinical findings are nonspecific ; most patients present with symptoms of fever and weight loss of at least 1 month 's duration . when untreated , many cases eventually develop severe clinical manifestations resembling septicemia . chest roentgenograms , when abnormal , show interstitial or reticulonodular infiltrates . many cases have been initially misdiagnosed as disseminated mycobacterial infection or pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . patients are often concurrently infected with other opportunistic pathogens , supporting the need for a careful search for co-infections . useful diagnostic tests include serologic tests for anti-h . capsulatum antibodies and hpa , silver stains of tissue sections or body fluids , and cultures using fungal media from blood , bone marrow , bronchoalveolar lavage fluid , and other tissues or body fluids suspected to be infected on clinical grounds . treatment with amphotericin b is highly effective , reversing the clinical manifestations of infection in at least 80 % of cases . however , nearly all patients relapse within 1 year after completing courses of amphotericin b of 35 mg/kg or more , supporting the use of maintenance treatment to prevent recurrence . relapse rates are lower ( 9 to 19 % ) in patients receiving maintenance therapy with amphotericin b given at doses of about 50 mg weekly or biweekly than with ketoconazole ( 50-60 % ) , but controlled trials comparing different maintenance regimens have not been conducted . until results of such trials become available , our current approach is to administer an induction phase of 15 mg/kg of amphotericin b given over 4 to 6 weeks , followed by maintenance therapy with 50 to 100 mg of amphotericin b given once or twice weekly , or biweekly . if results of a prospective national institutes of allergy and infectious disease study of itraconazole maintenance therapy document its effectiveness , alternatives to amphotericin b may be reasonable . 
coccidioidomycosis during human immunodeficiency virus infection . a review of 77 patients . through a retrospective review , we identified 77 previously unreported cases of coccidioidomycosis during hiv infection . patients were classified into 1 of 6 categories based on their primary clinical presentation : 20 had focal pulmonary disease ( group 1 ) , 31 had diffuse pulmonary disease ( group 2 ) , 4 had cutaneous coccidioidomycosis ( group 3 ) , 9 had meningitis ( group 4 ) , 7 had extrathoracic lymph node or liver involvement ( group 5 ) , and 6 has positive coccidioidal serology without a clinical focus of infection ( group 6 ) . coccidioidal serologies were positive on initial testing in 83 % of the patients in whom such serologic testing was performed . sera from 39 % of patients were positive for tp antibodies while 74 % had cf antibodies . eleven of 12 seronegative patients had pulmonary disease ( group 1 or 2 ) . serologic results of other patients sent to a single reference laboratory were similar , with 26 % positive for immunodiffusion tp antibodies and 79 % positive for immunodiffusion cf antibodies . for the 77 patients in this study , the cd4-lymphocyte count was below 0.250 x 10 ( 9 ) cells/l in 46 of the 55 patients who had this test performed , and a low cd4 count was significantly associated with mortality ( p less than 0.01 ) . at the time of follow-up , 32 of the 77 patients ( 42 % ) had died . there were significantly more deaths in those with diffuse pulmonary disease ( group 2 ) than in other groups ( p less than 0.001 ) . amphotericin b , ketoconazole , fluconazole , and itraconazole were all used as antifungal therapies . outcome could not be related to the therapy used . of note , 3 patients developed coccidioidomycosis while receiving ketoconazole for other conditions . 
extrapulmonary pneumocystosis : clinical features in human immunodeficiency virus infection . pneumocystis carinii infection is reported with increasing frequency as a cause of disease outside of the respiratory tract in patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . extrapulmonary pneumocystosis is not limited to patients in any discrete risk group for hiv infection . patients with hiv infection who develop extrapulmonary pneumocystosis frequently do not have concurrent p. carinii pneumonia . signs and symptoms of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis are nonspecific but when present are frequently referable to the tissues or organs involved . extrapulmonary pneumocystosis can be diagnosed by examination of tissue biopsies from affected sites using standard histologic techniques . therapy with antimicrobial agents used to treat p. carinii pneumonia has been effective in some patients . an association between use of aerosolized pentamidine for prevention of p. carinii pneumonia and development of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis has been suggested but remains unconfirmed . other factors such as the use of zidovudine and duration of immunodeficiency may also be important to the pathogenesis of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis . further studies are needed to better identify risk factors that may predispose patients to the development of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis . 
corticosteroids as adjunctive therapy for severe pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial . background . preliminary reports suggest that patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) and pneumocystis carinii pneumonia may benefit from the addition of corticosteroid treatment to antibiotic therapy . methods . we conducted a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial to assess the efficacy of adjunctive corticosteroids in patients with aids and severe p. carinii pneumonia . patients with marked abnormalities in gas exchange who had been treated with antibiotics for less than 72 hours were randomly assigned to receive either methylprednisolone ( 40 mg ) or placebo every 6 hours for 7 days , in addition to treatment for 21 days with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole . the primary outcome measures were survival until hospital discharge and the development of respiratory failure . results . twenty-three patients were enrolled in the study ; there were no significant differences in base-line clinical or laboratory measures between the two treatment groups . of 12 patients treated with corticosteroids , 9 ( 75 percent ) survived until hospital discharge , as compared with only 2 of 11 placebo recipients ( 18 percent ) ( p less than 0.008 ) . respiratory failure developed in nine placebo recipients , as compared with only three patients treated with corticosteroids ( p less than 0.008 ) . no patient required the interruption or discontinuation of corticosteroid or antibiotic treatment because of toxicity or a complicating event . because of the marked difference in survival , it was deemed unethical to continue the trial , and the study was terminated . conclusions . early adjunctive corticosteroid therapy can improve survival and decrease the occurrence of respiratory failure in patients with aids and severe p. carinii pneumonia . 
a controlled trial of early adjunctive treatment with corticosteroids for pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . california collaborative treatment group . background . pneumocystis carinii pneumonia remains a common cause of serious morbidity and mortality in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . the extensive lung injury that accompanies pneumocystis-associated respiratory failure and the reports of clinical benefit from the use of adjunctive corticosteroids provided the rationale for this prospective multicenter trial . methods . a total of 333 patients with aids and pneumocystis pneumonia received standard treatment and were randomly assigned to receive either corticosteroids ( beginning with the equivalent of 40 mg of prednisone twice daily ) or no additional therapy . the primary end points in this unblinded trial were the occurrence of respiratory failure ( hypoxemia ratio [ partial pressure of arterial oxygen divided by fraction of inspired oxygen ] less than 75 , intubation , or death ) , death , and dose-limiting toxicity of the initial standard therapy . results . of the patients with confirmed or presumed pneumocystis pneumonia ( n = 225 and n = 26 , respectively ) , those assigned to treatment with corticosteroids had a lower cumulative risk at 31 days of respiratory failure ( 0.14 vs. 0.30 , p = 0.004 ) and of death ( 0.11 vs. 0.23 , p = 0.009 ) , as well as a lower risk of death within 84 days ( 0.16 vs. 0.26 , p = 0.026 ) . the frequency of dose-limiting toxicity of the standard therapy was similar in the two treatment groups . intention-to-treat analyses of the entire cohort confirmed these findings . clinical benefit could not be demonstrated , however , for patients with mild disease ( hypoxemia ratio , greater than 350 ) , equivalent to a partial pressure of oxygen greater than 75 torr on room air . the patients assigned to corticosteroid treatment had an excess of localized herpetic lesions ( 26 percent vs. 15 percent , p = 0.04 ) but not of other infections or of neoplasms . conclusions . early adjunctive treatment with corticosteroids reduces the risks of respiratory failure and death in patients with aids and moderate-to-severe pneumocystis pneumonia . because the adverse effects are few , corticosteroids should be included as part of the initial treatment for persons with aids who have moderate-to-severe pneumocystis pneumonia . 
the agent of bacillary angiomatosis . an approach to the identification of uncultured pathogens background . bacillary angiomatosis is an infectious disease causing proliferation of small blood vessels in the skin and visceral organs of patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection and other immunocompromised hosts . the agent is often visualized in tissue sections of lesions with warthin-starry staining , but the bacillus has not been successfully cultured or identified . this bacillus may also cause cat scratch disease . methods . in attempting to identify this organism , we used the polymerase chain reaction . we used oligonucleotide primers complementary to the 16s ribosomal rna genes of eubacteria to amplify 16s ribosomal gene fragments directly from tissue samples of bacillary angiomatosis . the dna sequence of these fragments was determined and analyzed for phylogenetic relatedness to other known organisms . normal tissues were studied in parallel . results . tissue from three unrelated patients with bacillary angiomatosis yielded a unique 16s gene sequence . a sequence obtained from a fourth patient with bacillary angiomatosis differed from the sequence found in the other three patients at only 4 of 241 base positions . no related 16s gene fragment was detected in the normal tissues . these 16s sequences associated with bacillary angiomatosis belong to a previously uncharacterized microorganism , most closely related to rochalimaea quintana . conclusions . the cause of bacillary angiomatosis is a previously uncharacterized rickettsia-like organism , closely related to r. quintana . this method for the identification of an uncultured pathogen may be applicable to other infectious diseases of unknown cause . 
clinical and pathological features of bacillary peliosis hepatis in association with human immunodeficiency virus infection background . peliosis hepatis is characterized by cystic , blood-filled spaces in the liver and is seen in patients with chronic infections or advanced cancer and as a consequence of therapy with anabolic steroids . cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis is a bacterial infection that occurs in patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection ; its histologic appearance is that of a pseudoneoplastic vascular proliferation . methods . we studied liver tissue from eight hiv-infected patients with peliosis hepatis , two of whom also had cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis . for comparison we examined tissue from four patients who had peliosis hepatis without hiv infection . tissues were examined histologically on routine sections and with special stains and electron microscopy . results . the histologic features seen in peliosis hepatis associated with hiv infection , but not in the four cases unrelated to hiv infection , were myxoid stroma and clumps of a granular purple material that on warthin-starry staining and electron microscopy proved to be bacilli . the bacilli , which could not be cultured , were morphologically identical to those found in the skin lesions of cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis . the clinical courses of two of the patients with this " bacillary peliosis hepatis " indicate that it responds to antibiotic treatment . conclusions . hiv-associated bacillary peliosis hepatis is an unusual , treatable opportunistic infection , probably caused by the same organism that causes cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis . our failure to find bacilli in non-hiv-associated cases implies that other pathogenetic mechanisms may also be responsible for peliosis hepatis . 
a newly recognized fastidious gram-negative pathogen as a cause of fever and bacteremia background . we identified a motile , curved , gram-negative bacillus as the cause of persistent fever and bacteremia in two patients with symptomatic human immunodeficiency virus infection . the same organism was subsequently recovered from a bone marrow-transplant recipient with septicemia and from two immunocompetent persons with week-long febrile illnesses . all the patients recovered after antimicrobial therapy . methods and results . primary cultures of blood processed by centrifugation after blood-cell lysis yielded adherent , white , iridescent , morphologically heterogeneous colonies in 5 to 15 days . subcultures grew in four days on chocolate , charcoal-yeast extract , or blood agar . the organisms stained weakly with safranin and were not acid-fast . fluorescent-antibody tests for legionella and francisella were negative . biochemical reactivity was minimal and difficult to ascertain . agar-dilution testing revealed in vitro susceptibility to most antimicrobial agents tested . the cellular fatty acid composition of the isolates was similar , resembling that of rochalimaea quintana or brucella species , but not helicobacter pylori or species of campylobacter or legionella . as resolved by gel electrophoresis , cell-membrane preparations of all isolates contained similar proteins , with patterns that differed from that of r. quintana . patterns of digestion of dna from all isolates by ecorv restriction endonuclease were virtually identical and also differed from that of r. quintana . on immunodiffusion , serum from one convalescent patient produced a line of identity with sonicates of all five isolates . conclusions . this pathogen may have been unidentified until now because of its slow growth , broad susceptibility to antimicrobial agents , and possible requirement of blood-cell lysis for recovery in culture . it should be sought as a cause of unexplained fever , especially in persons with defective cell-mediated immunity . 
hiv-1 tropism for mononuclear phagocytes can be determined by regions of gp120 outside the cd4-binding domain . cells of the mononuclear phagocyte system are the predominant cell producing hiv-1 in most tissues including the central nervous system ( cns ) , spinal cord , lung and skin ; infection is associated with dementia , neuropathy , pneumonitis , and dermatitis respectively . different hiv-1 isolates vary markedly in their ability to infect mononuclear phagocytes productively . here we describe molecular clones of a cns-derived isolate , hiv-1 ( jr-fl ) , which can replicate efficiently in mononuclear phagocytes . analysis by polymerase chain reaction of early events after infection indicates that the early phase of viral replication before reverse transcription determines tropism . genetic mapping of the macrophage-tropic phenotype by construction of recombinant viruses indicates that mononuclear phagocyte infectivity can be determined by a 157-amino-acid region of the gp 120 glycoprotein of hiv-1 ( jr-fl ) . significantly , this region is upstream from the previously defined cd4-binding domain . we propose that at least one determinant for mononuclear phagocyte tropism involves target cell interactions with regions of gp120 distinct from the cd4-binding domain . 
circulating cd8 + cytotoxic t lymphocytes specific for htlv-i px in patients with htlv-i associated neurological disease . the human t-lymphotropic virus type i ( htlv-i ) , the first human retrovirus to be characterized , is associated with adult t-cell leukaemia and a chronic progressive disease of the central nervous system termed tropical spastic paraparesis , or htlv-i-associated myelopathy . only 1 % of individuals infected with htlv-i develop clinical disease however . the various manifestations of an htlv-i infection may be related to differences in the genetic backgrounds of individuals , infection with variant strains of htlv-i , differences in viral tropism or host immune response to the virus . whereas the humoral response to htlv-i is well characterized , little is known about the human cellular immune response , such as the production of cytotoxic t lymphocytes . here we report the presence of high levels of circulating htlv-i-specific cytotoxic t lymphocytes in patients with htlv-i associated neurological disease but not in htlv-i seropositive individuals without neurological involvement . these cytotoxic t lymphocytes are cd8 + , hla class i - restricted and predominantly recognize the htlv-i gene products encoded in the regulatory region px . these findings suggest that htlv-i-specific cytotoxic t lymphocytes may contribute to the pathogenesis of associated neurological disorders associated with htlv-i . 
cytokine accumulations in csf of multiple sclerosis patients : frequent detection of interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor but not interleukin-6 . we identified the cytokines interleukin-1 beta ( il-1 beta ) , tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) , and interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) by specific radioimmunoassays in the csf of patients with multiple sclerosis ( ms ) and other neurologic diseases ( ond ) . there was a high incidence of detectable il-1 beta in patients with active ms compared with inactive ms or ond patients . tnf was also more frequently present in active ms than in ond csf . by contrast , most ms csf did not contain detectable il-6 . there was no correlation between the degree of csf pleocytosis and the level of individual cytokines , suggesting that cytokine accumulations may be derived from cns , and not csf , cells . as il-1 beta and tnf experimentally induce astrogliosis , demyelination , temperature elevation , lassitude , and sleep , and results raise the possibility that these cytokines may contribute to a variety of manifestations in ms and in other disease states . 
proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy in multiple sclerosis . regional in vivo proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy provides quantitative data on selected chemical constituents of brain . we imaged 16 volunteers with clinically definite multiple sclerosis on a 1.5 tesla magnetic resonance scanner to define plaque-containing volumes of interest , and obtained localized water-suppressed proton spectra using a stimulated echo sequence . twenty-five of 40 plaque-containing regions provided spectra of adequate quality . of these , 8 spectra from 6 subjects were consistent with the presence of cholesterol or fatty acids ; the remainder were similar to those obtained from white matter of normal volunteers . this early experience with regional proton spectroscopy suggests that individual plaques are distinct . these differences likely reflect dynamic stages of the evolution of the demyelinative process not previously accessible to in vivo investigation . 
myelin basic protein-specific t lymphocyte lines from ms patients and healthy individuals . we derived a total of 146 t lymphocyte lines specific for human myelin basic protein ( mbp ) from the peripheral blood of 20 ms patients and from a control group of 12 healthy donors , and determined the reactivities of t cell lines by [ 3h ] thymidine incorporation on exposure to mbp and mbp peptides 1-44 , 45-89 , and 90-170 . we defined hla restriction of the t lines by using monoclonal antibodies against monomorphic determinants on human hla-dr , hla-dq , and hla-dp molecules . mbp-specific t cell lines could be isolated with a comparable efficiency from ms patients and healthy individuals . in both groups , mbp-specific t lymphocytes recognized at least 4 different epitopes in the mbp molecule , and specificities showed comparable patterns for different mbp peptides . mbp-specific t cell lines derived from ms patients and controls were restricted by dr products of the human major histocompatibility class ii locus . notable phenotypic differences of t cell lines existed between the 2 groups . lines isolated from ms patients expressed predominantly the cd3 + cd4 + cd8 - phenotype , while some control lines were composed of up to 87 % cd3 + cd4 + cd8 + t lymphocytes . these findings illustrate the presence of mbp-specific t cells in ms patients and controls that are similarly sensitized to mbp and restricted by hla-dr products . 
a comparison of regulatory cells in spinal fluid and blood in patients with multiple sclerosis and other neurologic diseases . multiple sclerosis is a disease in which immune abnormalities are present both in the cns and peripheral blood . whether these changes are primary or secondary to the disease process is not known . we tested t-cell clones derived from activated lymphocytes in the blood and csf of ms patients and controls for their capacity to regulate t-cell responses to alloantigens . a wide spectrum of regulatory functions were observed , ranging from marked enhancement to almost complete suppression . clones from different patient populations and anatomic sites were equivalent in their regulatory functions with the net effect of clones in each compartment being suppression . however , certain clones from csf and peripheral blood had the capacity to stimulate autologous t cells . percentages of such clones in the peripheral blood of ms patients were significantly higher than in controls , while percentages in ms and other neurologic diseases ( ond ) csf were equivalent . our data suggest that ( 1 ) functional suppressor cells are not lost from the blood or csf or ms and ond patients , ( 2 ) lymphocytes that have entered the cns in patients with ms and other cns diseases have equivalent regulatory functions , ( 3 ) ms may be an illness in which peripheral immunologic events are important in perpetuating the disease process , and ( 4 ) responses to autologous antigens may also play a role in this perpetuation . 
hla associations and ancestry in vogt-koyanagi-harada disease and sympathetic ophthalmia . a strong association with hla antigens dr4 , drw53 , and bw54 has previously been reported among japanese patients with vogt-koyanagi-harada disease ( vkh ) and sympathetic ophthalmia ( so ) . in the united states , no firm association between hla-a or - b loci and vkh has been found previously ; testing for hla-dr loci has not been performed to date . the authors performed hla typing of 23 american patients with vkh and 8 patients with so . when vkh patients were compared with racially matched controls without disease and patients with other types of uveitis , strong associations with hla-dr4 and hla-drw53 were found . the strongest associations observed in this sample were with hla-dqw3 , an antigen which is in positive linkage disequilibrium with dr4 , and with the hla-dr4 / dqw3 haplotype . the small number of patients with so precluded statistical analysis ; however , similar hla associations were noted . the patients also were questioned regarding their ancestry . the anecdotal association of vkh with american indian ancestry was confirmed . it appears that the ethnoracial association may be explained by hla type . one possible explanation for identical hla associations in two diseases with different precipitating events yet similar ocular manifestations is development of an altered immune response to exogenous microbial antigen with subsequent autoimmunity . further definition of the genetic susceptibility to vkh and so may help define the pathophysiology of both diseases and allow the prediction of which patients are at increased risk for so . 
the prevalence of cardiac valvular pathosis in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus . the purpose of this study was to determine the prevalence of valvular pathosis in a population of patients with sle , to assess the candidacy of such patients for antibiotic prophylaxis before dental treatment . the hospital records of 112 patients with sle were reviewed and screened for endocarditis , heart murmurs , and other valvular pathosis . two of the 112 patients had confirmed cases of bacterial endocarditis . this prevalence is comparable to endocarditis prevalence rates in patients with prosthetic valves and is also three times that in patients with rheumatic heart disease . the high prevalence of endocarditis in this population of patients with sle suggests that according to present perspectives on patient management , patients with sle should be considered for antibiotic prophylaxis before dental therapies associated with formation of a bacteremia . 
oral histoplasmosis as a presenting disease in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [ published erratum appears in oral surg oral med oral pathol 1991 jan ; 71 ( 1 ) :76 ] a 43-year-old homosexual man visited his dentist with painful , nodular , ulcerated lesions on the soft palate , right buccal mucosa , and right posterior maxillary gingiva . serologic studies for exposure to human immunodeficiency virus , performed before biopsy , were positive . biopsy of the maxillary gingiva demonstrated sheets of histiocytes containing small intracellular yeasts , which on culture were identified as histoplasma capsulatum . bilateral leukoplakic lesions with some vertical furrowing involving the lateral borders of the tongue were also noted . histologically , hyperkeratosis and fungal hyphae were identified . the patient was treated for histoplasmosis with amphotericin b , which resulted in significant improvement of the oral lesions . he was subsequently hospitalized for fatigue and dyspnea and was found to have pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . pulmonary status deteriorated within a 3-week period , and the patient died . autopsy findings were negative for histoplasmosis but positive for necrotizing and cavitary p. carinii pneumonia , pulmonary and hepatic herpes simplex infections , and pulmonary and intestinal cytomegalovirus infection . 
immunoglobulin g subclass deficiency and predisposition to infection in down 's syndrome . serum immunoglobulins and igg subclasses were measured in 26 children with down 's syndrome using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and monoclonal antibodies . eighteen ( 69 % ) of the children had increased susceptibility to infection . none of the children had deficiencies of total igg and igm , and only one had an iga deficiency . igg4 deficiency was diagnosed in 14 ( 54 % ) children . one child had a deficiency of igg2 . there were no children with deficiencies of either igg1 or igg3 . there was a significant correlation between igg subclass deficiency and predisposition to infection ( p less than 0.05 ) . ninety percent of the patients with severe infections had low igg4 whereas only 25 % of those with no infections had low concentrations of igg4 . these results suggest that it is important to screen patients with down 's syndrome who have frequent systemic or respiratory infections for igg subclass deficiencies because this may not be apparent from the assay of total igg . 
prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus seropositivity in pediatric emergency room patients undergoing phlebotomy . information on the prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection among children and adolescents requiring medical care is sparse . a small but significant risk of seroconversion occurs in health care workers who handle blood and body fluids of patients infected with hiv . the prevalence of hiv seropositivity in children who had phlebotomy as part of emergency care was measured . of 749 blood samples , 21 ( 2.8 % ) tested positive for hiv antibody by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and western blot analysis : 14 samples from 6 patients with hemophilia , 6 from 3 patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-related complex , and 1 from a patient with asthma . of these 21 blood samples , 10 were from 4 children previously known to be hiv positive , 4 were from patients with a known parental risk factor , and 16 were from patients with known history of blood transfusion . one sample was from a children with unknown hiv status and no documented risk factors . procedures included 9 venipunctures , 17 intravenous line placements , 1 lumbar puncture , and 1 pelvic examination . most patients with hiv seropositivity had been known to be hiv seropositive or at significant risk for hiv seropositivity . although the potential risk to health care workers from children without known risk factors for hiv seropositivity was small in this population , the currently recommended infection-control precautions should always be observed . 
pediatric acquired immunodeficiency syndrome : an unusually high incidence of twinning . surveillance data on incidence of twins among reported cases of pediatric aids in new york city are presented . most pairs are concordant for hiv infection . three discordant pairs have been described elsewhere . possible reasons for the association are discussed , including the most likely explanation that twins show symptoms early and are overrepresented in the early years of surveillance of pediatric aids . 
cytomegalovirus . an update for primary care physicians . cytomegalovirus infection is spread in various ways -- from mother to fetus or baby , from small children in day-care centers to caregivers and parents , by blood transfusions , by sexual contact . although the illness is usually inconsequential , congenital infection can have severe consequences , including mental retardation and hearing loss . dr bean describes the different aspects of this virus and discusses a promising vaccine that may prevent congenital disease . 
myelin autoreactivity in multiple sclerosis : recognition of myelin basic protein in the context of hla-dr2 products by t lymphocytes of multiple-sclerosis patients and healthy donors . a panel of 20 human myelin basic protein ( hmbp ) - specific t-lymphocyte lines was generated from the peripheral blood of eight multiple sclerosis ( ms ) patients and two healthy donors , most of them expressing the hla-dr2 haplotype , which is associated with an increased susceptibility to ms. using hla-dr gene-transfected mouse l-cell lines as antigen-presenting cells , we established that of the 20 hmbp-specific t-lymphocyte lines , 7 were restricted by the dr2a gene products of the dr2dw2 haplotype . four t-cell lines recognized hmbp in the context of the dr2b products of the dr2dw2 haplotype . dr2b-restricted t-cell responses were demonstrable only in t-cell lines derived from ms patients . the hmbp epitopes presented by the dr2a heterodimer were mapped to peptides covering amino acid residues 1-44 , 76-91 , 131-145 , or 139-153 and to a region spanning the thrombin-cleaved bond at arg130-ala131 . dr2b-restricted t-cell lines recognized epitopes within amino acids 80-99 and 148-162 . peptide 139-153 was also presented in the context of hla-dr1 molecules . our data show that ( i ) in ms patients both the dr2a and dr2b products of the dr2dw2 haplotype function as restriction elements for the myelin autoantigen hmbp , ( ii ) the dr2a molecule presents at least five different epitopes to hmbp-specific t lymphocytes , and ( iii ) anti-hmbp t-cell lines derived from individual donors can differ in their antigen fine specificity as well as in their hla restriction . 
transforming growth factor beta and noncytopathic mechanisms of immunodeficiency in human immunodeficiency virus infection . this study examines the contribution of transforming growth factor beta ( tgf beta ) , one of the most potent endogenous immunosuppressive factors , to the development of immunodeficiency in human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . increased titers of tgf beta were found in supernatants of peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( pbmcs ) from hiv-infected donors as compared to uninfected controls ( p less than 0.001 ) . this correlated closely with defective responses of cd4 + lymphocytes to the recall antigens tuberculin purified protein derivative or tetanus toxoid . the addition of tgf beta-neutralizing antibody to pbmcs partially restored these defective t-cell responses . furthermore , purified tgf beta or hiv + pbmc culture supernatants preferentially inhibited proliferation of cd4 + lymphocytes as compared to cd8 + cells . the increased expression of the tgf beta protein was associated with increased tgf beta mrna as determined by a polymerase chain reaction assay . this increase in tgf beta protein and mrna was due to a selective upregulation of the tgf beta 1 isoform . these results indicate that overexpression of tgf beta 1 occurs in hiv-infected individuals and that this cytokine can contribute to impaired immune functions and to depletion of cd4 + t lymphocytes . 
organ-specific and systemic autoimmune diseases originate from defects in hematopoietic stem cells . transplantation of bone marrow cells from nonobese diabetic ( nod ) mice , a model for type 1 diabetes mellitus , to c3h/hen mice , which express i-e alpha molecules and have aspartic acid at residue 57 of the i-a beta chain , induced insulitis followed by overt diabetes in the recipient c3h/hen mice more than 40 weeks after bone marrow transplantation . when cyclosporin a , which perturbs t-cell functions , was injected intraperitoneally into [ nod ---- c3h/hen ] chimeric mice daily for 1 month , the chimeric mice developed insulitis and overt diabetes within 20 weeks following bone marrow transplantation . transplantation of bone marrow cells from ( nzw x bxsb ) f1 mice , which develop lupus nephritis , myocardial infarction , and idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura , into c3h/hen or c57bl/6j mice induced in the recipient strains both lupus nephritis and idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura more than 3 months after transplantation . transplantation of a stem-cell-enriched population from ( nzw x bxsb ) f1 mice into normal mice also induced autoimmune disease in the recipients . these results indicate that both systemic autoimmune disease and organ-specific autoimmune disease originate from defects that reside within the stem cells ; the thymus and environmental factors such as sex hormones appear to act only as accelerating factors . 
rapid , nonradioactive detection of clonal t-cell receptor gene rearrangements in lymphoid neoplasms . southern blot hybridization analysis of clonal antigen receptor gene rearrangements has proved to be a valuable adjunct to conventional methods for diagnosing lymphoid neoplasia . however , southern blot analysis suffers from a number of technical disadvantages , including the time necessary to obtain results , the use of radioactivity , and the susceptibility of the method to various artifacts . we have investigated an alternative approach for assessing the clonality of antigen receptor gene rearrangements in lymphoid tissue biopsy specimens . this approach involves the amplification of rearranged gamma t-cell receptor genes by the polymerase chain reaction and analysis of the polymerase chain reaction products by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis . by use of this approach , clonal rearrangements from neoplastic lymphocytes constituting as little as 0.1-1 % of the total cells in the tissue are detected as discrete bands in the denaturing gel after the gel is stained with ethidium bromide and viewed under ultraviolet light . in contrast , polyclonal rearrangements from reactive lymphocytes appear as a diffuse smear along the length of the gel . our findings suggest that polymerase chain reaction combined with denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis may offer a rapid , nonradioactive , and sensitive alternative to southern blot analysis for the diagnostic evaluation of lymphoid tissue biopsy specimens . 
a 47-kda human nuclear protein recognized by antikinetochore autoimmune sera is homologous with the protein encoded by rcc1 , a gene implicated in onset of chromosome condensation . several autoimmune sera from patients with raynaud phenomenon decorated mammalian kinetochores and bound to a 47-kda protein on immunoblots of nuclear lysates . antibody affinity-purified from immunoblots of the 47-kda band recognized kinetochores , but due to crossreaction with an 18-kda protein , localization remains elusive . we used one of these sera to purify the antigen from hela cells synchronized in mitosis as a noncovalent complex with a 25-kda protein . the antigen was released from dna by intercalation with 25 mm chloroquine . ion-exchange chromatography yielded the pure complex with an apparent molecular size of 68 kda , which was separated into its components by gel filtration in 6 m guanidinium chloride . upon two-dimensional gel electrophoresis the 47-kda protein gave two main spots of pi 6.6 and 6.7 , respectively . posttranslational modification is indicated by additional antigenic spots , by lack of a free alpha-amino group , and by chromatographic behavior of peptides on reversed-phase chromatography . the amino acid sequence for 205 residues of the 47-kda protein has been established . this sequence is highly homologous with the translated reading frame of rcc1 , a gene reportedly involved in regulating onset of mammalian chromosome condensation . 
pharmacotherapy of asthma and allergic rhinitis . it has become easier to treat and control the symptoms of asthma , while the treatment of allergies remains directed toward the prevention and blockade of histamine-induced symptoms . this article details treatment options , including beta-2 selective sympathomimetic agonists , methods of delivery , theophylline , cromolyn , corticosteroids , antihistamines , decongestants , and intranasal steroids . 
adrenal dysfunction in patients with renal amyloid . amyloidosis is a multi-system disease . renal involvement often leads to end-stage renal failure , which carries a poor prognosis . this paper reports the adrenal status of 22 patients with renal amyloid who were considered for or who had been commenced on renal replacement therapy . twelve patients were considered or found to have aa amyloid and the remaining 10 had al amyloid . of 16 patients tested , seven demonstrated an abnormal response to a synacthen test . four patients died at addisonian crisis and hypo-adrenalism probably contributed to the deaths of a further two patients . amyloid deposition was found in the adrenal glands in seven patients who died of systemic amyloidosis and renal failure . it is recommended that all patients with renal amyloid should have an assessment of adrenal function performed and if abnormal replacement steroid therapy should be commenced . 
interferon system and natural killer cell activity in myasthenia gravis . the autoimmune response in myasthenia gravis is well characterized , but little is known about the mechanisms initiating it . we have studied the interferon system and natural killer cell activity in 25 patients with myasthenia gravis and compared them to 68 healthy subjects and 96 patients with acute viral infections . forty-four per cent of patients had circulating interferon ( greater than 16 mu/ml ) , and in a similar proportion their peripheral blood mononuclear cells were in an antiviral state , i.e. , showed low levels of viral replication when infected by vesicular stomatitis virus . spontaneous in vitro interferon production by patients ' peripheral blood mononuclear cells was also common ( greater than 10 mu/ml , 32 per cent ) , while the response to the alpha-interferon inducer poly i : c was lower than expected , possibly reflecting the already high state of activation of the interferon system . these results were essentially similar to those obtained in patients with viral illnesses and differed significantly from healthy controls . in many myasthenia gravis patients ( 16 of 22 , 73 per cent ) , a markedly deficient natural killer cell activity was found , with a median cytotoxicity of 6.5 per cent compared to 29 per cent in healthy subjects ( p less than 0.005 ) . thus , many patients with myasthenia gravis have evidence of an activated interferon system and defective natural killer cell activity , suggesting an occult viral infection or reflecting nonspecific stimulation which may nevertheless contribute to the pathogenesis of the autoimmune response . 
tuberculous psoas muscle abscess following chemoprophylaxis with isoniazid in a patient with human immunodeficiency virus infection . a 34-year-old man with human immunodeficiency virus infection and disseminated mycobacterium avium and mycobacterium intracellulare infection developed a right psoas muscle abscess due to mycobacterium tuberculosis . the abscess occurred 18 months after completion of a 12-month course of chemoprophylaxis with isoniazid that was given because of a positive reaction with purified protein derivative of tuberculin . the adjacent vertebrae did not appear to be involved . the abscess was drained with a percutaneously inserted catheter , and he received standard antituberculous chemotherapy . three weeks into therapy , a second drainage with a catheter was required . the isolation of two mycobacteria in this patient and the apparent failure of chemoprophylaxis with isoniazid are noted . 
spectrum of cryptococcus neoformans infection in 68 patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus . sixty-eight patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) and cryptococcus neoformans who presented to three major medical centers in new orleans , louisiana , were studied retrospectively . in patients with meningitis the most common presenting symptoms were fever and headache . those without central nervous system involvement generally had an isolated pulmonary infection due to c. neoformans and presented with cough and dyspnea . csf parameters were abnormal in 41 % of patients , and the india ink preparation was positive in 88 % of patients with cultures of csf positive for c. neoformans . the overall median survival time for the 47 patients who died was 5 months , with a range of 0-22 months . of the 27 patients who received maintenance therapy with amphotericin b , two ( 7 % ) relapsed . the only factors found to be associated with a poor prognosis were abnormal computed tomography of the head and altered mental status on presentation . c. neoformans infections in hiv-infected patients remain difficult to treat and have a poor prognosis . 
tropical neuromyelopathies and retroviruses : a review . debilitating disorders of the nervous system have a relatively high prevalence in the tropics , a geographic region that is often deficient in specialists in the fields of neurology and epidemiology . during world war ii , attention was called to a possible nutritional origin for most of these diseases . recently , however , human t lymphotropic virus type i ( htlv-i ) , formerly linked only to a rare form of leukemia ( adult t cell leukemia ) , has been associated with a spastic paraplegia observed mostly in tropical areas and referred to as tropical spastic paraparesis . this entity is also observed in nontropical areas endemic for htlv-i , including japan , south america , and the southern united states . viruses of the htlv family are being associated increasingly with pathology in humans . the pathogenesis of htlv-i-associated tropical spastic paraparesis remains to be understood . however , future research is expected to favor a multidisciplinary approach , with exciting potential insights derived from the fields of neurology , immunology , and infectious diseases . the aim of this review is to summarize contemporary research related to the viral etiology of this clinical entity . 
current advances in the diagnosis and treatment of aids : an introduction . significant progress has been made in the diagnosis and treatment of aids . laboratory tests available for assessment of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection include the detection of antibodies to hiv type 1 , the direct detection of the virus , the identification of surrogate markers , and the phenotypic analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells . clinicians have made great strides in the treatment of tumors , opportunistic infections , and complications associated with aids as well as in the treatment of the infection itself . in selected patients , treatment with interferon-alpha has been successful against aids-related kaposi 's sarcoma . attempts to treat the leukopenia and anemia of patients with aids by the administration of hematopoietic growth factors have resulted in increased white blood cell counts and a decrease in erythrocyte transfusion requirements . in addition to zidovudine , several antiretroviral agents are undergoing testing , including the nucleoside analogues dideoxycytidine and dideoxyinosine , soluble cd4 , and the glycosidase inhibitor n-butyldeoxynojirimycin . 
laboratory methods in the diagnosis and prognostic staging of infection with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 . laboratory evaluation of infection with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) may involve detection of antibodies to hiv-1 , direct detection of hiv-1 itself , and measurement of an individual 's immunologic status at the time of presentation . the elisa is currently the preferred initial screening test , although a variety of other rapid immunoassays have also been developed . methods defining the antigenic specificity of the antibody response , such as the western blot , have become standard confirmatory tests in this setting . cd4 + cell enumeration and the hiv-1 antigen capture assay are useful in predicting the course of hiv-1 infection and in monitoring antiretroviral therapies . newer techniques of hiv-1 co-cultivation permit the characterization of viral isolates and the stratification of patients and facilitate monitoring of the effects of antiretroviral agents . the polymerase chain reaction is of value in identifying hiv-1 infection in individuals with inconclusive serologic results . judicious use of other laboratory tests , including surrogate markers such as beta 2-microglobulin , also provides prognostic information potentially useful in clinical management of hiv-1-infected patients . 
management of the hematologic complications of human immunodeficiency virus infection . replication of various strains of human immunodeficiency virus can be increased in vitro by certain colony-stimulating factors ( csfs ) , but the protective effect of zidovudine ( azt ) on macrophages is not antagonized in the presence of those factors -- specifically , in the presence of granulocyte-macrophage csf ( gm-csf ) . in clinical studies , gm-csf given alone dramatically increased counts of white cells , particularly neutrophils and band cells . very small doses of gm-csf , self-administered subcutaneously , restored white cell production in leukopenic patients with aids . combination treatment with azt and gm-csf in azt-intolerant patients allowed resumption of azt treatment and increased bone marrow cellularity . treatment of anemic patients who have aids or aids-related complex with recombinant human erythropoietin ( r-huepo ) produced promising results . after 12 weeks of treatment with r-huepo , the need for transfusions to maintain hematocrit values within the normal range was reduced significantly or eliminated in patients with low baseline levels of endogenous erythropoietin . studies combining aids chemotherapy with csf or erythropoietin treatment are proposed . 
therapeutic approaches to neoplasms in aids . the multifactorial etiology of kaposi 's sarcoma ( ks ) , which is seen primarily in men , includes genetic predisposition and immunosuppression . recently , the ks seen in association with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection has been shown to be mediated by the production of certain growth factors . hiv per se may also play an etiologic role via its tat gene . therapeutic options include irradiation for local or cosmetic control , interferon-alpha , combinations of antiretroviral agents and interferon-alpha , and chemotherapy . the use of antineoplastic agents , either individually or in combination , in cases of advanced disease has been somewhat successful , but resultant immunosuppression and neutropenia may predispose patients to further infection , thereby adversely affecting survival . aids-related lymphoma , a late manifestation of hiv infection , often presents with widespread extranodal disease ; the median survival time in all series has been approximately 6 months . two-thirds of patients may have central nervous system involvement at some time in the course of illness . intensive chemotherapeutic regimens are associated with an increased likelihood of opportunistic infection and do not prolong survival . combinations of antineoplastic agents given at low doses for short periods may be associated with long-term remissions . 
new antiretroviral agents in the clinic . since the first controlled clinical trial of zidovudine ( act ) was terminated in the fall of 1986 , much has been learned concerning the use of this agent in the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . the recent report of hiv resistance associated with long-term azt therapy has accelerated the sense of urgency about the development of additional agents for use -- either alone or in combination with azt -- against this infection . several new agents are in various stages of preclinical or clinical evaluation . some , such as dideoxycytidine , dideoxyinosine , dideoxydidehydrothymidine , azidouridine , and foscarnet , inhibit viral dna synthesis through inhibition of reverse transcriptase . other potentially useful agents presumably act at different stages of infection . soluble cd4 , for example , is a soluble form of the receptor to which hiv must bind to infect cells , and castanospermine represents a new class of compounds that block the maturation process of the viral glycoprotein . an apparently more potent and less toxic analogue of the latter agent , n-butyl-deoxynojirimycin , is currently in phase i testing . 
cytomegalovirus : where have we been and where are we going ? nearly 30 years have elapsed since rowe and weller and their colleagues discovered human cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) . because of its complex structure , long replicative cycle , low yield in vitro , and highly species-specific cell-substrate requirement , the cellular and molecular biologic analyses of human cmv have been slow , but recombinant dna and monoclonal antibody technologies are bringing about rapid changes . because of the long period of latency and wide range of disease presentations , epidemiologic and medical insights have also come slowly . however , the clinical events that occur during iatrogenic immunosuppression ( transplantation and cancer therapy ) and as a result of immunocompromise due to human immunodeficiency virus infection are currently promoting our understanding of the epidemiology of cmv disease and the definition of its clinical spectrum . rapid diagnostic methods , antiviral drugs , and vaccines for cmv are becoming available . we may not yet understand completely the impact of this agent on the nonimmunosuppressed or aspects of its pathogenesis : e.g. , the immune functions controlling recrudescence and the possibility of increased disease severity in those with no detectable immune defect . with the availability of new approaches , other issues should be clarified , such as the functions of host and virus involved in the mechanism of persistence . 
epidemiology of cytomegalovirus infections . the determinants of cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infection and disease can now be understood from studies of newborns , recipients of organ or bone marrow transplants , subjects infected with human immunodeficiency virus , and recipients of blood transfusions . cmv is transmitted to the neonate transplacentally , by passage through a contaminated birth canal , or by ingestion of infected breast milk ; to the adult by heterosexual and homosexual sex with an infected partner ; and to the transplant recipient by infected organs . a major unsolved problem in the study of cmv is the nature of viral latency . knowledge regarding the requirements for activation of latent infection at the molecular , cellular , or host level is incomplete . both viral and host factors may contribute to the successful transmission of cmv by latently infected cells in transplanted organs and transfused blood . 
successful strategy for prevention of cytomegalovirus interstitial pneumonia after human leukocyte antigen-identical bone marrow transplantation . cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) interstitial pneumonia is a frequent and often fatal complication of allogeneic bone marrow transplantation . because therapy for cmv pneumonia was , until recently , largely ineffective , prophylactic methods were explored . this study shows that the strategy of using cmv seronegative blood products for seronegative patients with seronegative donors or weekly administration of intravenous immunoglobulin for all other patients reduced the attack rate of cmv pneumonia . the results of this study are put into the perspective of previously published data . 
cytomegalovirus in the setting of infection with human immunodeficiency virus human cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) has several possible roles in the pathogenesis of aids . cmv causes a number of clinical syndromes , including retinitis , pneumonitis , and gastroenteritis in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) . in addition , cmv may potentiate the cellular immunodeficiency observed in patients with hiv infection either directly or through enhancement of hiv replication . finally , cmv may predispose the host to bacterial or fungal infection by compromising the integrity of mucosal barriers to infection . therapy with ganciclovir for cmv infection may result in a decrease in morbidity related to the virus , but problems with drug toxicity and resistance to the agent mandate the development of additional therapeutic approaches . 
cytomegalovirus infection in children with aids . data for 38 children perinatally exposed to human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) were evaluated to determine the impact of cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infection on the course of perinatally acquired hiv infection . thirteen children belonged to the p0 ( indeterminate ) group , one to the p1 ( asymptomatic ) group , and 24 to the p2 ( symptomatic ) group , per the classification of the centers for disease control . of the 24 children in the p2 group , 10 died . the mean follow-up time was 22.8 months for the 10 children who died and 16.3 months for the 13 children in the p0 group . serial cultures of urine were performed for all 38 patients . cmv was isolated from seven of 10 children who died and from four of 14 children who survived ( p less than .05 ) . only one of the 13 p0 children was culture-positive for cmv , as compared with 11 of 24 p2 children ( p less than .05 ) . all cmv-infected children continued to demonstrate cmv viruria in serial cultures . the mean age at the time of the first culture positive for cmv was 13 months . microcephaly was present in 15 ( 65 % ) of 23 p2 children but in none of the p0 and p1 children ( p less than .05 ) . eight of 11 cmv-infected children were microcephalic ; seven of 12 children not infected with cmv were microcephalic ( p greater than .05 ) . these data suggest that the prevalence of active cmv infection is significantly higher in p2 children than in p0 and p1 children . in addition , there is a significant association between cmv infection and mortality among p2 children . 
syphilis , human immunodeficiency virus infection , and targeting prevention . to examine the interaction between syphilis and human immunodeficiency virus-type 1 ( hiv-1 ) infection in oklahoma , we conducted an unlinked hiv seroprevalence survey using serum specimens submitted to the oklahoma state department of health for serologic test for syphilis . of specimens with positive results from fluorescent treponemal antibody absorption test ( fta-abs ) , 6.3 % were hiv-1 seropositive compared to 0.8 % of those that had negative results from fta-abs . among specimens positive for syphilis , hiv-1 seropositivity was found almost exclusively among those from persons 20 to 39 years of age and more often among those from men than those from women ( 9.9 % vs 1.3 % ) . of syphilis-positive specimens from 20 - to 39-year-old men , 17.6 % were hiv-1 seropositive . in oklahoma , an area with a relatively low overall prevalence of hiv-1 infection , targeting prevention efforts to young adults who test positive for syphilis should be an efficient way to reach some persons at high risk for hiv-1 infection . 
pneumocystis carinii pneumonia manifested as a hilar mass and cavitary lesion : an atypical presentation in a patient receiving aerosolized pentamidine prophylaxis . a case of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) in a patient with aids was manifested radiographically as a hilar mass and cavitary lesion . the patient had been receiving aerosolized pentamidine as prophylaxis against pcp . nonuniform deposition of aerosolized pentamidine was probably responsible for this atypical radiographic appearance of pcp . 
synchronous hodgkin 's disease and myelofibrosis terminating with granulocytic sarcoma and acute megakaryocytic leukemia . our patient had stage iiiai hodgkin 's disease with synchronous myelofibrosis and myeloid metaplasia . a slowly progressive myeloproliferative disease developed over 9 1/2 years and terminated in a painful osteolytic bone disease , spinal extradural granulocytic sarcoma and acute megakaryocytic leukemia . it is likely that this was a result of the myeloproliferative disease rather than a late complication from combination chemotherapy . our case demonstrates the importance of a curative approach to hodgkin 's disease even in the face of a coexistent disease with a long or unknown natural history . 
hypercalcemia as a clinical prodrome to lymphoma . a 73-year-old man was admitted for evaluation of unexplained hypercalcemia and was found to have a large-cell non-hodgkin 's lymphoma with stage iv disease . treatment with cyclophosphamide , doxorubicin ( adriamycin ) , vincristine sulfate , and prednisone chemotherapy returned his calcium levels to normal . hypercalcemia with lymphoma is rare , and persistent evaluation for malignancy is essential . 
cataract extraction in uveitis patients . cataracts are known to develop at an accelerated rate in many forms of uveitis . until recently , cataract surgery in such eyes was regarded as a hazardous procedure that yielded unpredictable and often discouraging results . recent evidence from a number of reports suggests that newer surgical techniques and careful medical management allow a significant number of patients with uveitis to undergo cataract extraction successfully . intraocular lens implantation using in-the-bag posterior chamber lens technique has been successful in selected cases . careful patient selection , coupled with the use of an appropriate surgical technique , appear to be of major importance . herein we review the current literature on cataract extraction in uveitis and provide guidelines for patient and technique selection based on the type of inflammation present . the management of common surgical problems and complications is discussed , as is the role of the intraocular lens . specific surgical techniques useful in the management of eyes with cataract and uveitis are discussed . 
stroke in systemic lupus erythematosus [ published erratum appears in stroke 1991 mar ; 22 ( 3 ) :417 ] we investigated the clinical and pathologic characteristics of stroke in 234 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus . thirteen patients ( 5.6 % ) developed cerebrovascular disease . cerebral infarction was noted in eight , cerebral hemorrhage in two , and subarachnoid hemorrhage in three . in seven ( 54 % ) of these 13 patients , stroke occurred less than or equal to 5 years after systemic lupus erythematosus was diagnosed . among the predisposing risk factors for stroke , hypertension was the most important . lupus anticoagulant was detected in three ( 38 % ) and anticardiolipin antibody in three ( 43 % of seven investigated ) of the patients with infarction . evaluation of the clinical manifestations and autoantibodies indicated that renal involvement and high titers of anti-deoxyribonucleic acid antibody were more frequent in the stroke group than in the non-stroke group . autopsy studies on six of the patients with stroke revealed small infarcts and hemorrhages in all , but in no case was true angiitis observed . libman-sacks endocarditis was found in two of the three patients with infarction . in conclusion , the important contributory factor to the development of stroke in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus is considered to be hypertension mediated by immunologic abnormalities . antiphospholipid antibodies and libman-sacks endocarditis are closely associated with occlusive cerebrovascular disease . 
surgical experience with cerebral amyloid angiopathy . cerebral amyloid angiopathy can present as lobar intracerebral hemorrhage in an elderly person , presumably due to increased fragility of the vessels affected by amyloid deposition . for this reason , patients presenting with intracerebral hemorrhage and suspected of having cerebral amyloid angiopathy have often been treated nonsurgically . since 1983 we have evaluated 11 patients with cerebral amyloid angiopathy ( nine women and two men , mean age 73 years ) who have undergone either intracerebral hematoma evacuation or brain biopsy . nine of the 11 patients presented with intracerebral hemorrhage , which was unilobar in three patients and multilobar in six and involved the parietal lobes seven times , the frontal lobes four times , the temporal lobes four times , and the occipital lobes twice . these nine patients underwent hematoma removal , with no cases of abnormal intraoperative bleeding or recurrent hemorrhage . six patients improved neurologically , and two were unchanged after hematoma evacuation ; the remaining patient had a fatal cardiopulmonary arrest during the immediate postoperative period . during follow-up in seven patients ( median 11 months , range 1 week to 74 months ) none experienced a recurrent intracerebral hemorrhage and four continued to improve . two of the 11 patients had cerebral amyloid angiopathy diagnosed by brain biopsy as part of an evaluation for dementia , also without surgical complications . this series suggests that patients with cerebral amyloid angiopathy may safely undergo operative procedures , and patients presenting with intracerebral hemorrhage may show neurologic improvement following evacuation of the hematoma . 
the prevalence of antibody to htlv-i/ii in united states plasma donors and in united states and french hemophiliacs . antibody to htlv-i/ii was detected in 19 ( 0.3 % ) of 6286 plasma donors from five regions of the united states ( us ) . this seroprevalence rate is approximately 10 times that in whole blood donors . the regional distribution of infection was as follows : southwest , 0.68 percent ; southeast , 0.45 percent ; midwest , 0.28 percent ; northwest , 0.1 percent ; and northeast , 0.0 percent . rates of htlv-i/ii infection in blacks ( 0.74 % ) and hispanics ( 0.66 % ) were higher ( both , p less than 0.001 ) than those in whites ( 0.08 % ) . all 19 infected units were donated by subjects aged 30 or older , even though 52.9 percent of the donations came from persons less than 30 years old . equal rates of htlv-i/ii infection were found in men ( 0.31 % ) and women ( 0.29 % ) . no htlv-i/ii antibody was detected in 154 french and 25 us hemophiliacs who were transfused regularly with noninactivated plasma or its derivatives . this suggests that the transfusion of htlv-i/ii-seropositive plasma products does not transmit the viral infection . 
efficiency of white cell filtration and a freeze-thaw procedure for removal of hiv-infected cells from blood . strategies for diminishing the risk of blood transfusion-associated transmission of hiv-1 were evaluated . hiv-1-infected peripheral blood mononuclear cells were added to blood that was subsequently filtered by using different white cell ( wbc ) filters ( cellulose acetate and polyester ) . the average log reduction of infected cells with polyester filters was at least 2.5 as measured by id50 titration and polymerase chain reaction . in two wbc filtration experiments with blood from seropositive donors diluted 1:4 with seronegative blood , log reductions of 2.4 and greater than 2.5 were observed . no cell-free virus was retained by the filter used . a freeze-thaw procedure applied to hiv-1-contaminated blood resulted in a minimal log reduction . these results indicate that the reduction of hiv-1 infectivity as a result of filtration is mainly due to the removal of hiv-1-infected wbcs , and that complete removal of infected wbcs can not be achieved by the current filtration or freeze-thaw procedures . however , the development of filters with enhanced ability to remove ( possibly infected ) wbcs may have the added benefit of improving the safety of donor blood , especially in multiply transfused patients . 
hiv disease : a review for the family physician . part ii . secondary infections , malignancy and experimental therapy . the first part of this two-part article included recommendations for the initial evaluation of patients suspected of having hiv infection , the centers for disease control 's classification scheme for hiv disease and current recommendations for the use of zidovudine . in this second part , secondary infections and malignancy are reviewed , and various experimental therapies are briefly discussed . 
tartrazine sensitivity . tartrazine ( fd & c yellow no . 5 ) is an approved azo dye present in many drugs and food products . during the 1970s , many cases of tartrazine sensitivity were reported . this led to new regulations that required the listing of azo dyes on package inserts of drugs and on packages of food products . tartrazine sensitivity is most frequently manifested by urticaria and asthma . although azo dyes have been implicated in accentuating hyperkinetic syndromes , tartrazine is not considered an offender . vasculitis , purpura and contact dermatitis infrequently occur as manifestations of tartrazine sensitivity . cross-sensitivity in aspirin-sensitive and nsaid-sensitive patients may also occur . the mechanism of sensitivity is obscure and has been called pseudoallergic . management consists mainly of avoidance of drugs and food products that contain tartrazine . 
antinuclear matrix antibody . hidden antinuclear antibody in patients with connective tissue diseases . a total of 435 serum samples from patients with different rheumatic diseases were screened for the presence of autoantibody to nuclear matrix components by indirect immunofluorescence on 0.1 mol/l hcl extracted hep-2 cell and wil2 cell substrates . a total of 28 specimens were positive in this assay . eighteen of them were from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus ( 18 of 250 ) , 2 from patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( 2 of 115 ) , and 8 from patients with mixed connective tissue disease ( 8 of 10 ) . antigenic material for this antibody is resistant to dnase , partially sensitive to rnase , and sensitive to trypsin . this indicates that the antigen is composed of protein and possibly rna . in immunoblot analysis , sera positive for this antibody in indirect immunofluorescence assay recognized different peptides . this suggests that protein peptides are the major antigenic material . 
racial , social , and environmental risks for childhood asthma . unlike a number of childhood problems , it is not clear that there are racial or socioeconomic disparities in the prevalence of childhood asthma . we analyzed data from the child health supplement to the 1981 national health interview survey , a population-based survey with information concerning 15,416 children , to address the following questions : are there racial or socioeconomic differences in rates of childhood asthma ; if yes , what is the contribution of social and environmental characteristics to the observed differences ? in this sample , black children were more likely to have asthma than were white children ( 4.4 % vs. 2.5 % ) . racial disparities in prevalence emerged early and at all childhood ages were due to higher black rates of onset between the ages of 1 and 3 years . poverty status , maternal cigarette smoking , large family size , smaller size of home , low birth weight , and maternal age younger than 20 years at the child 's birth were all associated with increased rates of childhood asthma . when available social and environmental characteristics were controlled for using multivariate analyses , the increased risk for asthma among black and poor children was reduced to statistical insignificance . we conclude that black and poor children in the united states do have higher rates of asthma , that social and environmental factors exert substantial influences on rates of asthma , and that much of the racial and economic disparity in prevalence can be accounted for by a variety of social and environmental characteristics . 
immune complexes in pediatric human immunodeficiency virus infection . circulating immune complexes ( cic ) were analyzed in a cohort of 30 children infected with the human immunodeficiency virus . elevated cic were detected by the c1q assay in 70 % ( 21/30 ) of all patients and by the raji cell assay in 93 % ( 28/30 ) of all patients . while only less than one third of patients with elevated cic had free serum antibodies to epstein-barr virus , 80 % ( 16/20 ) of them had detectable antibodies to epstein-barr virus associated with cic . enriched cic in human immunodeficiency virus-infected children contained low levels of complement . these findings document that , as an expression of the humoral immunodeficiency , cic in human immunodeficiency virus-infected children are deficient in complement and can thus be underestimated if complement-precipitating methods are used for their detection . 
a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of intravenous immunoglobulin therapy in patients with chronic fatigue syndrome purpose : the chronic fatigue syndrome ( cfs ) is characterized by profound fatigue , neuropsychiatric dysfunction , and frequent abnormalities in cell-mediated immunity . no effective therapy is known . patients and methods : forty-nine patients ( 40 with abnormal cell-mediated immunity ) participated in a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial to determine the effectiveness of high-dose intravenously administered immunoglobulin g. the patients received three intravenous infusions of a placebo solution or immunoglobulin at a dose of 2 g/kg/month . assessment of the severity of symptoms and associated disability , both before and after treatment , was completed at detailed interviews by a physician and psychiatrist , who were unaware of the treatment status . in addition , any change in physical symptoms and functional capacity was recorded using visual analogue scales , while changes in psychologic morbidity were assessed using patient-rated indices of depression . cell-mediated immunity was evaluated by t-cell subset analysis , delayed-type hypersensitivity skin testing , and lymphocyte transformation with phytohemagglutinin . results : at the interview conducted by the physician 3 months after the final infusion , 10 of 23 ( 43 % ) immunoglobulin recipients and three of the 26 ( 12 % ) placebo recipients were assessed as having responded with a substantial reduction in their symptoms and recommencement of work , leisure , and social activities . the patients designated as having responded had improvement in physical , psychologic , and immunologic measures ( p less than 0.01 for each ) . conclusion : immunomodulatory treatment with immunoglobulin is effective in a significant number of patients with cfs , a finding that supports the concept that an immunologic disturbance may be important in the pathogenesis of this disorder . 
beta 2-microglobulin predicts survival in primary systemic amyloidosis . purpose : the study assessed whether beta 2-microglobulin levels predict survival or response in patients with primary systemic amyloidosis without associated multiple myeloma . patients and methods : the study group consisted of 131 untreated patients with biopsy-proven primary systemic amyloidosis diagnosed and evaluated at the mayo clinic . no patient had multiple myeloma . the minimum follow-up of surviving patients is 8 years . no patient was lost to follow-up . results : the median survival of patients with an increased beta 2-microglobulin level was 10.8 months , compared with patients with a normal beta 2-microglobulin level ( less than or equal to 2.7 micrograms/ml , 0.23 mumol/l ) of 32.9 months ( p less than 0.001 ) . in a multivariate proportional-hazards model , the best model included congestive heart failure ( p less than 0.0001 ) and increased beta 2-microglobulin levels ( p less than 0.05 ) . after adjustment for the presence of congestive heart failure , beta 2-microglobulin level remained significant . when the analysis was restricted to those patients with normal renal function , the median survival of those with an elevated beta 2-microglobulin level was 9.1 months versus 39.4 months for those with a normal level ( p less than 0.001 ) . the serum level of beta 2-microglobulin was increased in patients with nephrotic-range proteinuria with or without renal insufficiency ( p = 0.05 ) . conclusion : the serum beta 2-microglobulin level should be measured routinely in all patients with primary systemic amyloidosis because it provides a useful objective factor to identify subsets of patients with this disease who have unfavorable outcomes . 
pulmonary disease in aids patients . pulmonary disease remains a major complication of the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) . over the past decade several changes in the pattern of disease have occurred . pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) remains the most common opportunistic pathogen in aids patients , though its incidence on bronchoscopy has declined and empiric therapy often occurs without a specific diagnosis . changes in the management of patients with pcp have included different dosages and routes of administration for chemotherapy , improved overall survival , and a recent increase in the number of patients surviving episodes of respiratory failure . in addition , infection with mycobacteria tuberculosis ( m.tb . ) has emerged as a major public health problem . the pattern of m.tb . is distinct from non-immunocompromised patients though response to therapy usually occurs . 
ocular adnexal kaposi 's sarcoma in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . we examined histopathologically 18 ocular adnexal kaposi 's sarcoma lesions related to acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . these lesions were classified into three types . type i consisted of thin , dilated vascular channels lined by flat endothelial cells with lumen-containing erythrocytes . type ii featured plump , fusiform , endothelial cells , often with a hyperchromatic nucleus and foci of immature spindle cells and occasional slit vessels . type iii was characterized by large aggregates of densely packed spindle cells with hyperchromatic nuclei , occasional mitotic figures , and abundant slit spaces often containing erythrocytes in between . clinically , type i and type ii tumors were patchy and flat ( less than 3 mm in height ) and of less than four months ' duration . type iii tumors were nodular and elevated ( greater than 3 mm in height ) . we describe the clinical and histopathologic types of kaposi 's sarcoma that may help in diagnosis . 
hodgkin 's disease and cd30-positive anaplastic large cell lymphomas -- a continuous spectrum of malignant disorders . a quantitative morphometric and immunohistologic study . the authors have examined cellular areas of lymphoma tissue in 28 cases of hodgkin 's disease ( hd ) or anaplastic large cell lymphoma ( alcl , ' ki-1 cell lymphoma ' ) to evaluate the boundaries between the two entities . methods applied included conventional histology ; test point analysis ; semiautomated morphometry of nuclear profile features of reed-sternberg and other atypical large cells ( rsalcs ) ; and immunohistochemistry of these elements on all paraffin sections and , in 15 cases , on frozen sections . mean nuclear profile morphotypes of rsalcs per case varied independently of immunophenotype and histologic diagnosis . conversely , immunohistochemistry demonstrated significant , although not consistent , preferential positivities of these cd30 + elements for cd15 in hd , and for epithelial membrane antigen ( ema ) and cd43 in alcls . in the latter , rsalcs also exhibited a tendency for cd45 and cd45ro positivity and for the expression of t-cell-associated antigens . however , there were considerable overlaps . this continuous spectrum of rsalc nuclear profile morphotypes and immunophenotypes , ranging from hd over questionable cases , intermediate between hd and alcl , to alcls , was paralleled by differences in the reactive component of lymphomas . lymphocytes and granulocytes were significantly deficient in alcls . 
histologic similarity of murine colonic graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) to human colonic gvhd and inflammatory bowel disease . in a study designed to determine which t-cell subsets are involved in the development of murine graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) , a prospective histologic analysis of gastrointestinal involvement was performed . in c57bl/6jxdba/2f1 ( b6d2f1 ) recipients of dba/2 donor spleen and bone marrow cells , the colonic histologic findings were found to be similar in many respects to the histologic findings reported in human colonic gvhd and were much more severe and diffuse than were the abnormalities of the small intestine . host irradiation before transplantation was found to play an additive or synergistic role in the development of gvhd . furthermore the histologic features noted in dba/2 ---- b6d2f1 murine colonic gvhd suggest that bone marrow and spleen cell transplantation in this strain combination may be a useful model for studying the immunologic mechanisms involved in human inflammatory bowel disease . thus severe colonic disease noted during the course of dba/2 ---- b6d2f1 murine gvhd was found to have significant histopathologic similarities to both human gvhd enteropathy and other inflammatory diseases of the human colon . 
protein a-gold immunoelectron microscopic study of amyloid fibrils , granular deposits , and fibrillar luminal aggregates in renal amyloidosis . glomeruli of archival renal biopsies , stored frozen at -70 degrees c , from three patients with amyloid were examined by protein a-gold immunoelectron microscopy . in one with both fibrillar and granular deposits from a ' skin popper ' drug abuser , the granular deposits were labeled with anti-igg , while the fibrillar deposits were labeled with anti-amyloid-a ( aa ) protein and amyloid p component ( ap ) , suggesting coexisting immune complex disease and aa due to different , but possibly related , pathogenesis . in studies using double-label immunostaining of primary amyloidosis-lambda light chain type ( al ) and aa associated with crohn 's disease , ap occurred as widely separated single units along the amyloid fibrils and represented 1.5 % and 6.5 % of the total gold label in al and aa , respectively , while the major fibril protein was labeled in single rows , similar to beads on a string . fibrillar aggregates in the capillary lumens were labeled similarly by antisera to the major protein and ap and appeared to be contiguous with the fibrillar deposits at the glomerular basement membrane ( gbm ) - luminal interface , suggesting intravascular fibrillogenesis . 
modeling the impact of breast-feeding by hiv-infected women on child survival [ published erratum appears in am j public health 1991 may ; 81 ( 5 ) :658 -9 ] this study models the survival outcomes of children born to hiv-infected ( human immunodeficiency virus ) women who are breast-fed , bottle-fed , and wet-nursed . it is estimated that , given the relative risk of alternatives to maternal milk in developing countries , the probability of hiv transmission via breast milk would need to be at least .12 in a community with an under five child mortality rate from non-hiv causes of 100/1000 live births and at least .27 in a community with a rate of 200/1000 before alternative feeding practices should be recommended even to the known hiv-infected mother who has an available feeding alternative with a relative risk of 2:1 . while such a low relative risk may be achievable with wet nursing , most studies report a relative risk of at least 3:1 for bottle feeding . a sensitivity analysis is conducted around the relative risk of child mortality from non-hiv causes associated with different feeding practices . while the critical transmission rate does not vary significantly with a rate of false positives as high as 20 percent on the hiv screening test , the critical transmission rate is very sensitive to the availability of hiv screening . in communities where the hiv prevalence rate among mothers reaches 40 percent , breast-feeding should still be recommended in the absence of hiv screening unless hiv transmission via breast milk surpasses 30 percent . 
the buddy volunteer commitment in aids care . buddy volunteers provide crucial assistance to people with hiv-related illnesses . based on volunteers ' self-administered questionnaires , our study describes the nature of buddy work . volunteers indicated their satisfaction with both personal performance and buddy program administration . several factors were associated with volunteer satisfaction . this report is a first attempt to describe this special relationship created in response to the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) epidemic . 
epidemiology of reported cases of aids in lesbians , united states 1980-89 . national surveillance data for reported cases of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) were used to assess demographic characteristics and behavioral risk factors in lesbians . from june 1 , 1980 through september 30 , 1989 , 79 women with aids reported sex relations only with a female partner ; most of these women ( 95 percent ) were intravenous drug users . prevention of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection in the lesbian community will require efforts to prevent and reduce intravenous drug use . 
association of hepatitis b surface antigen and core antibody with acquisition and manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) infection . we examined the associations between seropositivity for hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) with the presence or development of antibodies to human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv-1 ) and with hiv-1 induced t-helper lymphocyte deficiency or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . serologic data on hbv and hiv-1 , cytometric enumeration of cd4 + lymphocytes , clinical events ( aids by centers for disease control criteria ) and hepatitis b vaccination histories were available on 4,498 homosexual participants in the multicenter aids cohort study , men were classified as to previous infection with hbv and prevalent or incident infection with hiv-1 . although there was an association between seropositivity for hbv infection and hiv-1 infection at enrollment ( odds ratios anti-hbc 2.6 ; hbsag 4.2 ) , the relation between hbv seropositivity and subsequent seroconversion to hiv-1 was weaker ( odds ratios 1.3 and 1.6 ) . hiv-1 seroconversion was also associated with a history of certain other sexually transmitted diseases , but predisposing sexual practices did not account for the association between hbv and hiv-1 infection . seropositivity for hbv infection at entry was not related to initially low or more rapid subsequent decline in t-helper lymphocyte counts and was not associated with an increased incidence of aids during 2.5 years of follow-up . history of vaccination against hbv did not appear to decrease susceptibility to hiv-1 infection or to subsequent progression of immunodeficiency . we conclude that prior hbv infection is unlikely to be specifically associated with acquisition of hiv-1 infection and is unrelated to more rapid progression of hiv-1-induced immunodeficiency . 
the aids-related experiences and practices of primary care physicians in los angeles : 1984-89 . telephone interviews of random samples of los angeles primary care physicians in 1984 , 1986 , and 1989 obtained information about their aids-related practice experiences , and sexual history taking . data from mid-1989 reveal almost 74 percent have worked up at least one patient for aids or hiv infection in the past six months and 39.5 percent are caring for at least one patient with aids or aids-related complex . self-reported use of appropriate sexual history questions has improved substantially over this five-year period . 
evaluation of the efficacy and cost effectiveness of health education methods to increase medication adherence among adults with asthma . we randomized 135 adult asthma patients to a control group , and 132 patients to an experimental group which received a special health education intervention . four adherence measures were documented at baseline and 12-month follow-up : correct inhaler use , inhaler adherence , medication adherence , and total adherence rating . costs to routinely deliver the intervention were $ 32.03 / patient . experimental group patients exhibited a significantly higher level of improvement in adherence ( 44 percent ) than control group patients ( 2 percent ) . 
human t cell lymphotropic virus infection in guaymi indians from panama . preliminary studies found that 9 % of guaymi indians from bocas del toro province have antibody to human t cell lymphotropic virus ( htlv-i/ii ) . the present study enrolled 317 ( 21 % of the population ) guaymi indians from changuinola , the capital of bocas del toro province and 333 ( 70 % of the population ) from canquintu , an isolated rural village . demographic information and family relationships were ascertained and subjects were screened for neurologic diseases . serum specimens were screened by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for htlv-i/ii antibody and positives were confirmed according to u.s. public health service criteria . twenty-five ( 8 % ) guaymi residing in changuinola and 7 ( 2.1 % ) from canquintu were confirmed seropositive . in changuinola , antibody was virtually limited to residents greater than or equal to 15 years of age ( 24 [ 16 % ] of 153 ) and rates were slightly higher in males than in females ; in canquintu , antibody rates did not increase significantly with age and appeared higher in females than in males . in changuinola , there was no evidence for household clustering of infection . in contrast , htlv antibody among canquintu residents clustered significantly by household . htlv-associated neurologic disease was not detected in either population . the atypical seroepidemiology observed in both locations might be explained if the virus endemic to the guaymi differed from htlv-i previously described in the caribbean basin and japan . 
high incidence of viral hepatitis among american missionaries in africa . protestant missionaries ( n = 360 ) serving in sub-saharan africa between 1967-1984 were studied to determine the risk of hepatitis a virus ( hav ) and hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) infection . personnel were serologically screened for antibody to both the hepatitis a virus ( anti-hav ) and the surface antigen to the hepatitis b virus ( anti-hbs ) prior to departure , periodically during service abroad , and upon completion of their african tour . rates of seroconversion were used as measures of the incidence of infection . prior to service , 16 % of the staff had anti-hav and 3 % had anti-hbs ; post-service rates were 42 % and 26 % , respectively . over 90 % of the staff with greater than 20 years of service were seropositive for anti-hav . for both viruses , the infection rate was highest during the first 1-2 years of service , when 28 % of those susceptible to hav and 11 % of those susceptible to hbv became infected . over the next decade , the median annual attack rate was 5.4 % for hav and 4.2 % for hbv . differences in the missionary hbv infection rate among the various african nations served tended to reflect differences in the magnitude of chronic hbv carriage among indigenous population groups . we conclude that missionaries to sub-saharan africa are at enhanced risk of both hav and hbv infection , and that all should receive passive immunization with immune globulin and active immunization with hepatitis b vaccine . 
effect of education on the use of universal precautions in a university hospital emergency department . study objectives : to determine if an educational program would improve both knowledge and practice of universal precautions by nursing personnel . design : participants were given a 14-question test and observed for their , practice of universal precautions during routine iv catheter placement or phlebotomy and trauma care before and six months after an education in-service . setting : university hospital emergency department . type of participants : nursing personnel . interventions : one-hour lecture addressing the occupational risk of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection and the recommended use of universal precautions . measurements and main results : the mean overall correct response rates to the questionnaire before and after the in-service were 70 % and 73 % , respectively ( p = ns ) . the pattern of incorrect responses suggested that the perceived risks of hiv transmission are underestimated , particularly among healthy-appearing patients . for care of critical trauma patients , there were significant increases between the frequency rates before and after the in-service of glove and protective eyewear use ( 66.7 % vs 87.7 % , p less than .025 ; 0.0 % vs 17.3 % , p less than .05 , respectively ) . the frequency rates of glove use for iv placement or phlebotomy in noncritical patients and of gown use for trauma patient care also increased ( 52.6 % vs 65.2 % and 25 % vs 39.5 % , respectively ) ; however , these changes were not statistically significant . conclusion : an intensive educational program was associated with a modest increase in the compliance of ed nursing personnel with universal precautions and had no long-term effect on their general knowledge of hiv risk . the practice of universal precautions is still far from universal in this ed . 
prehospital administration of inhaled metaproterenol . study objectives : we conducted a study of the prehospital use of inhaled metaproterenol . design , setting , type of participants , and interventions : advanced life support ( als ) providers were trained with a standardized curriculum to identify patients likely to benefit from prehospital inhaled metaproterenol administration . unit doses of metaproterenol were used in a small-volume nebulizer . we prospectively included 122 patients in an initial study ( 71 men ; age , 63 + / - 19 years ) to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of metaproterenol in the field , and 150 patients ( including the original 122 ) in an additional study to evaluate patient selection criteria . measurements and main results : the treatments resulted in an increase in peak flows , a decrease in respiratory rates , and no change in heart rates . in 62 % of patients , the increase in peak flow exceeded 15 % . wheezing improved in 59 % of the patients , worsened in 4 % , and did not change in the remainder . air entry by auscultation improved subjectively in 59 % of patients . mild tremor occurred in 8 % of patients , moderate tremor occurred in 1 % , and no tremor occurred in the remainder . significant dysrhythmias did not occur . conclusions : als providers correctly identified patients for this therapy . no technical problems were encountered in the field with this treatment approach . we conclude that als providers can be taught to identify patients likely to benefit from inhaled metaproterenol , that inhaled metaproterenol can be administered in the field , and that metaproterenol is both safe and effective when used in the prehospital setting . 
igg1-mediated acute pulmonary hypersensitivity response in the guinea pig . involvement of specific lipid mediators . we determined the pulmonary obstructive response to aerosolized antigen challenge , and its sensitivity to antagonists of specific lipid mediators , in igg , passively sensitized ( igg1-ps ) guinea pigs . antiovalbumin ( oa ) - igg1 was isolated by affinity chromatography from serum derived from actively immunized hartley guinea pigs . propranolol and pyrilamine pretreated , igg1-ps guinea pigs were challenged with aerosolized antigen and pulmonary obstruction was quantified by measurements of excised lung gas volume ( elgv ) . elgv increased between 150 and 1,035 % in a dose-proportional fashion with increasing antigen exposure ( 0.001 to 0.1 % nebulizer concentration ) . the leukotriene antagonists ici-204 ,219 and skf-104 ,353 exhibited dose-proportional inhibitions in antigen-induced elevations in elgv , inhibiting up to 65 and 87 % at the maximal concentrations examined . similarly , the platelet-activating factor ( paf ) antagonists web-2086 and l-659 ,989 inhibited antigen-induced elevations in elgv , inhibiting up to 94 and 59 % at the maximal concentrations examined . in contrast , the cyclooxygenase ( co ) inhibitor piroxicam significantly enhanced ( p less than 0.05 ) the oa-induced elevations in elgv . aerosolized paf challenge produced dose-proportional elevations in elgv that were significantly inhibited by the ltd , antagonist ici-204 ,219 ( 38 and 43 % inhibition ) and the co inhibitor piroxicam ( 62 and 48 % inhibition ) in sensitized and nonsensitized animals , respectively . we hypothesize that igg1-dependent airway obstruction is mediated in part by ltd , produced in response to paf generation . 
human basophil releasability . vi . changes in basophil releasability in patients with allergic rhinitis or bronchial asthma . we evaluated basophil releasability in two groups of allergic patients with positive skin tests to dermatophagoides pteronyssinus major allergen ( der p l ) ( 29 adults with bronchial asthma and 17 with allergic rhinitis ) and in 31 age-matched normal donors . both basophil reactivity ( maximal percent histamine release ) and basophil sensitivity ( the concentration that causes 50 % of maximal percent histamine release : hc50 ) to der p l in patients with asthma were similar to those in patients with allergic rhinitis . on the contrary , basophil reactivity to anti-ige was significantly higher in patients with asthma ( 58.0 + / - 3.6 % ) than in patients with allergic rhinitis ( 46.3 + / - 5.2 % ; p less than 0.05 ) . both groups of patients showed an increased releasability compared to control subjects ( 27.3 + / - 4.6 % ; p less than 0.001 ) , whereas there were no significant differences in basophil sensitivity to anti-ige among the three groups of donors . differences were also found with respect to basophil reactivity and sensitivity to f-met peptide , whereas no differences appeared when basophils from the three groups of donors were challenged with the ca2 + ionophore a23187 . there was a significant correlation between basophil reactivity and sensitivity to der p l and to anti-ige in both asthmatic and allergic rhinitis patients . a significant correlation was found between basophil reactivity and sensitivity to anti-ige and serum ige level only in patients with bronchial asthma , whereas no correlations were found in patients with allergic rhinitis . there was no correlation between in vivo mast cell releasability and in vitro basophil releasability in response to der p l in either group of allergic patients . 
asthmatic airways have a disproportionate hyperresponsiveness to lte4 , as compared with normal airways , but not to ltc4 , ltd4 , methacholine , and histamine . airways responsiveness to leukotriene ( lt ) c4 , ltd4 , lte4 , histamine , and methacholine have been studied in eight asthmatic and six normal subjects . airways responsiveness to each bronchoconstrictor agonist was assessed by constructing cumulative dose-response curves , and the dose that produced a 35 % decrease in specific airways conductance ( pd35 ) was obtained by linear interpolation . airways of subjects with asthma were approximately 14 - , 15 - , 6 - , 9 - , and 219-fold more responsive to histamine , methacholine , ltc4 , ltd4 , and lte4 , respectively , than were normal subjects . thus , there was a substantially augmented level of hyperresponsiveness to lte4 in bronchial asthma , which was not observed for the other bronchoconstrictor agents , when compared to normal subjects . in contrast to ltc4 and ltd4 , as histamine and methacholine responsiveness increase , the dose ratio of histamine to lte4 ( pd35 histamine/pd35 lte4 ) and the dose ratio of methacholine to lte4 also tended to increase . this suggests that as the nonspecific airways responsiveness increases , the relative potency of lte4 also increases , whereas potency of ltc4 and ltd4 decrease . these results suggest that the mechanism of the bronchoconstriction induced by lte4 may be distinct from that produced by ltc4 or ltd4 in subjects with asthma . this may reflect leukotriene subtype receptor heterogeneity in asthmatic airways . 
bronchial responsiveness to histamine in infants and older children normal infants have been shown to respond to a relatively low concentration of inhaled histamine . however , those studies used partial maximal expiratory flow volume ( pmefv ) curves to assess lung function . in order to directly compare responsiveness between infants and older children , we compared bronchial responsiveness to histamine between a group of 45 normal infants , median age 4 wk ( range 2 to 6 wk ) and a group of 30 nonasthmatic older children , median age 10 yr ( range 5 to 15 yr ) using pmefv curves in both groups to assess lung function . in the infant group , pmefv curves were generated using the forced expiratory flow volume technique . for the older children , pmefv curves were generated by voluntary effort . the provocative concentration of histamine that produced a 40 % fall ( pc40 ) in maximum flow at functional residual capacity ( vmaxfrc ) was calculated from the pmefv curves . the geometric mean pc40 of the infants ( 1.02 g/l ) was lower than the geometric mean of the older children ( 3.4 g/l ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . however , these results were then corrected for dilution of the aerosol due to air entrainment ( ae ) . corrected values of pc40 were not significantly different between infants and older children . these results demonstrate the importance of accounting for ae in the evaluation of histamine responsiveness and suggest that bronchial responsiveness may be similar in normal infants and older children . 
formoterol , a new inhaled beta-2 adrenergic agonist , has a longer blocking effect than albuterol on hyperventilation-induced bronchoconstriction . the duration of effect of inhaled formoterol ( 24 micrograms ) was compared with that of a placebo and that of inhaled albuterol ( 200 micrograms ) in 12 adult asthmatic subjects who underwent hyperventilation tests with cold dry air ( -20 degrees c ) on 4 study days . on the control day , they were subjected to four hyperventilation tests to ensure functional stability . on the 3 remaining days , after a first hyperventilation test , they inhaled placebo , albuterol , or formoterol in randomized , double-blind fashion . the hyperventilation test was repeated 1 , 4 , and 8 h and , if the blocking effect was still present , 12 and 24 h after the drug had been administered . the dose of hyperventilation of cold air causing a 20 % fall in fev1 ( pd20 ) was interpolated on the dose-response curve . the magnitude of the blocking effect at each time interval on each study day was assessed by comparing the changes in pd20 from baseline with the within-day variability of pd20 ( standardized change in pd20 ) . the acute bronchodilator effect was not significantly different as assessed 15 min ( 21 + / - 14 % for albuterol and 18 + / - 18 % for formoterol ) and 1 h ( 20 + / - 13 % for albuterol and 18 + / - 17 % for formoterol ) after administering the medication . the duration of the blocking effect , defined as the return to 2 sd from the standardized change in pd20 , was significantly more prolonged for formoterol ( 8.0 + / - 3.4 h ) than for albuterol ( 3.0 + / - 1.7 h ) ( t = 4.2 , p less than 0.0001 ) . 
circadian basis of the late asthmatic response . the late asthmatic response ( lar ) to an allergen challenge has a marked impact on lung function in the patient with asthma . virtually all studies on the lar have been done during the daytime . this study evaluated the lar as a function of the time of day an inhaled allergen challenge was performed . an allergen challenge given in the morning produced a lar in 4 of 10 subjects , while the same challenge in the evening caused a lar in 9 of 10 ( p less than 0.05 ) . the time to onset of the lar following the morning and evening challenges was 9.4 + / - 2.0 h versus 3.1 + / - 0.3 h , respectively ( p less than 0.05 ) . the maximal decrease in fev1 for the lar was 32.8 + / - 5.6 % for the morning challenge versus 43.0 + / - 3.1 % in the evening ( p less than 0.05 ) . additionally , the bronchial responsiveness to methacholine was significantly greater at 24 h following evening allergen challenge than after the morning ( p less than 0.05 ) challenge . thus , it is important to take into account the time of day a patient is exposed to an allergen in regard to the development of the lar . 
clearance of 99mtc-dtpa in pigeon fancier 's hypersensitivity pneumonitis . the rate of clearance of inhaled 99mtc-dtpa was measured in 20 nonsmoking pigeon fanciers and 7 control subjects . the degree of their avian contact and pigeon-related symptoms were noted , humoral immune response in the form of igg antibody to pigeon gamma globulin was quantified , and diffusing capacity and total lung capacity were measured . thirteen fanciers who had a high level of antibody had increased rates of clearance of 99mtc-dtpa ( mean half-time clearance of 16.8 [ + / - sem 2.02 ] min [ p = 0.001 ] ) even if they were asymptomatic and even if their diffusing capacity and total lung capacity were normal . seven control subjects without exposure to pigeon-derived antigens had normal clearance ( mean 72.6 [ + / - 5.98 ] min ) , and seven fanciers with antigen exposure but without an antibody response had intermediate rates of clearance ( mean 42.57 [ + / - 5.11 ] min ) . clearance was not directly related to the indices of intensity and duration of antigen exposure . the measurement of rate of clearance of 99mtc-dtpa in pigeon fanciers can identify an alteration in pulmonary integrity more subtle than found with conventional pulmonary function tests and may therefore be a useful test for studying the pulmonary response to inhaled antigen and for detecting the earliest stages in the evolution of hypersensitivity pneumonitis . 
computerized tomography in the evaluation of allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis . allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis ( abpa ) is a destructive disease of the lung characteristically associated with central bronchiectasis . this study was designed to determine if high-resolution computerized tomography ( ct ) could be used to define bronchiectasis in patients with suspected disease . sixteen patients with asthma were studied . all demonstrated immediate cutaneous reactivity to common aeroallergens including aspergillus fumigatus . eight patients had clinical and immunologic evidence of abpa . six to 12 high-resolution ct sections ( 1.5 mm ) were obtained at 1 - to 2-cm intervals from the aortic knob to the dome of the diaphragm . all radiographs were evaluated separately by two readers in a blinded fashion and graded as to the presence and type of bronchial dilatation and bronchial wall thickening . bronchial dilatation was seen in 41 % of lung lobes in the abpa group compared to 15 % in the non-abpa asthmatic control group . upper lobe involvement and bronchial wall thickening was common to both groups . the presence of bronchiectasis in the control group may indicate that asthma is a more destructive lung disease than is currently appreciated . high-resolution ct of the chest has been shown in previous studies to have a sensitivity and specificity approaching that of bronchography , and the current findings support its use in the detection of bronchiectasis in patients with asthma suspected of having abpa . 
infection with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) among recipients of antibody-positive blood donations objective : to assess the incidence of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) transmission by antibody ( anti-hiv-1 ) - positive blood components , and to determine the immunologic and clinical course in hiv-1-infected recipients . design and subjects : we retrospectively tested approximately 200,000 donor blood component specimens stored in late 1984 and 1985 for anti-hiv-1 , and we contacted recipients of positive specimens to determine their serologic status . they were compared with both recipients of hiv-1-negative transfusions and healthy ( untransfused ) controls . subjects were seen at 3 - to 6-month intervals for up to 4 years for clinical and immunologic evaluations . measurements and main results : of 133 recipients , 9 had other possible exposures . excluding these cases , 111 of 124 ( 89.5 % ) were anti-hiv-1-positive ( 95 % ci , 84.1 % to 94.5 % ) . the recipient 's sex , age , underlying condition , and type of component did not influence infection rates . the cumulative risk for developing the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) within 38 months after transfusion was 13 % ( ci , 7.5 % to 21.6 % ) . at 36 + / - 3 months after the index transfusion , seropositive recipients had lower counts of cd2 + cdw26 + , cd4 + , cd4 + cd29 + , and cd4 + cd45ra + subsets and more cd8 + i2 + lymphocytes than did recipients of anti-hiv-1-negative transfusions . the cd4 + and cd2 + cdw26 + subsets changed the most rapidly . the absolute cd8 + count remained normal . conclusions : transfusion of anti-hiv-1-positive blood infected 90 % of recipients . the rate of progression to aids within the first 38 months after infection was similar to that reported for homosexual men and hemophiliacs . although most lymphocyte subset counts changed over time , cd8 + counts were constant . 
risk for occupational transmission of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) associated with clinical exposures . a prospective evaluation objectives : to summarize the results of a 6-year , ongoing , prospective study of the risk for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) transmission among health care workers , and to estimate the magnitude of the risk for hiv-1 infection associated with different types of occupational exposures . design : prospective cohort study ; the median follow-up for employees sustaining parenteral exposures was 30.2 months ( range , 6 to 69 months ) . subjects : health care workers at the clinical center , national institutes of health , including those reporting parenteral and nonparenteral occupational exposures to hiv-1 . measurements and main results : one thousand three hundred and forty-four clinical health care workers reported 179 percutaneous and 346 mucous membrane exposures to fluids from hiv-1-infected patients during a 6-year period . responding to a supplementary questionnaire , 559 of these workers reported 2712 cutaneous exposures to blood from hiv-1-infected patients and more than 10,000 cutaneous exposures to blood from all patients during a 12-month period . occupational transmission of hiv-1 occurred in a single worker after a parenteral exposure to blood from an hiv-1-infected patient . no infections occurred after either mucous membrane or cutaneous exposures to blood from hiv-1-infected patients . use of newer diagnostic technologies ( for example , antigen detection , gene amplification ) has not resulted in the identification of occupationally transmitted seronegative infections . conclusions : combining our results with those of other prospective studies , the risk for hiv-1 transmission associated with a percutaneous exposure to blood from an hiv-1-infected patient is approximately 0.3 % per exposure ( 95 % ci , 0.13 % to 0.70 % ) ; the risks associated with occupational mucous membrane and cutaneous exposures are likely to be substantially smaller . these data support the use of barrier precautions and suggest a need for strategies that change health care providers ' attitudes and behaviors . 
effect of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection on the course of syphilis and on the response to treatment . purpose : to evaluate evidence that concurrent infection with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) alters both the natural history of syphilis ( by increasing the frequency of early neurosyphilis ) and the response to penicillin . data identification : review of major works on syphilis in the english language and files maintained since 1971 , supplemented by a systematic search using index medicus and medlars . data extraction : the works mentioned above were critically reviewed for information on early neurosyphilis and , where relevant , hiv infection . results of data analysis : the central nervous system is regularly involved in early syphilis . standard recommended doses of benzathine penicillin provide cerebrospinal fluid levels that are probably at the borderline of efficacy , and cure relies on treatment and an adequate host immune response . early neurosyphilis , appearing within 2 years of onset of infection with treponema pallidum , was uncommon in the prepenicillin era and usually occurred after inadequate therapy . this complication was exceedingly rare in the first three decades of penicillin use . in contrast , in the past decade , 40 patients with hiv infection have been reported to have asymptomatic neurosyphilis , or syphilitic meningitis , cranial nerve abnormalities ( predominantly in cranial nerves ii and viii ) , or cerebrovascular accidents , singly or together . in 40 % of cases , hiv infection was first diagnosed when neurologic symptoms appeared . of the 38 patients for whom information was available , 18 had the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , 7 had aids-related complex , and 13 had antibody to hiv . sixteen had previously been treated for syphilis , of whom 5 ( 31 % ) had received benzathine penicillin within the previous 6 months . preliminary data also suggest that skin lesions and vdrl ( venereal disease research laboratory ) antibody in hiv-infected patients with secondary syphilis respond more slowly to conventional penicillin therapy . conclusion : intensive therapy and follow-up observation is indicated for early syphilis in hiv-infected subjects . novel approaches to treatment deserve systematic evaluation . 
stroke in pediatric acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . in a 4 1/2 - year period , 4 of 68 children in a longitudinal study of neurological complications of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection had clinical and/or neuroradiological evidence of stroke , yielding a clinical incidence of stroke in this population of 1.3 % per year . during this period , 32 subjects died , and permission for autopsy was granted in 18 of the patients , including 3 of 4 who had clinical evidence of stroke . the prevalence of cerebrovascular pathological features in our consecutive autopsy series was higher than the clinical incidence . at autopsy cerebrovascular disease was documented in 6 ( 24 % ) of 25 children with hiv infection , including all 3 children who had clinical evidence of stroke . four patients had intracerebral hemorrhages , 6 patients had nonhemorrhagic infarcts , and 3 had both . hemorrhage was catastrophic in 1 child and clinically silent in 3 children , all of whom had immune thrombocytopenia . one child had an arteriopathy that affected meningocerebral arteries . in another child , the arteries of the circle of willis were aneurysmally dilated . two children had coexisting cardiomyopathy and subacute necrotizing encephalomyelopathy with vascular proliferation . these results suggest that stroke should be considered when children with hiv infection develop focal neurological signs . 
increased mepp frequency as an early sign of experimental immune-mediated motoneuron disease . intracellular recordings of miniature end-plate potentials were performed in extensor digitorum longus muscles from guinea pigs with experimental immune-mediated motoneuron destruction . in the early stages of the disease , the miniature end-plate potential frequency was elevated compared to that in control and normal animals . the amplitude and time course of the miniature end-plate potentials as well as the resting potential of the muscle fibers were not altered , which implies integrity of the postjunctional membrane . the increase in frequency of miniature end-plate potential reflects an increase of basal acetylcholine release and documents dysfunction of the presynaptic terminal of the neuromuscular junction . the increased frequency was associated with high levels of antimotoneuronal igg in the blood and the presence of igg at motor end-plates . these data suggest that the presynaptic terminal of the neuromuscular junction may be involved in the immune attack in animal models of motoneuron degeneration . 
my7 monoclonal antibody for diagnosis of cutaneous t-cell lymphoma . infiltrate in cutaneous t-cell lymphomas ( ctcls ) is composed mainly of cd4 helper cells with a phenotype very similar to that of benign cutaneous lymphoid infiltrate . my7 ( cd13 ) is a monoclonal antibody that is normally expressed on peripheral granulocytes and monocytes but also cross-reacts with an antigen expressed on epidermal basal cells . we studied my7 expression on basal cells of the epidermis and cd4 cell infiltrate in 34 ctcls , 11 pseudolymphomas , and 29 other benign cutaneous lesions . an indirect immunofluorescence technique with double labeling and an immunoperoxidase technique were used . we found that in benign inflammatory infiltrate , less than 10 % of cd4 cells expressed my7 antigen associated with normal my7 monoclonal antibody labeling of basal cells , whereas in ctcls more than 50 % of cd4 tumoral cells in dermis expressed my7 antigens ; however , basal cells were my7 negative . thus , it is demonstrated that my7 monoclonal antibody with its double modulation on epidermis ( basal cells ) and dermis ( cd4 cells ) has diagnostic value for differentiating ctcls with cd4 + my7 + tumor cells in dermis and my7-negative basal cells from benign inflammatory lesions with cd4 + my7 - cells in dermis and my7-positive basal cells . this modulation of my7 labeling could be related to the secretion of epidermal cytokines . 
characterization of the dermal infiltrate in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients with psoriasis . we investigated the dermal inflammatory cell infiltrates of psoriatic lesions from nine human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients and nine age - , sex - , and site-matched control specimens . the study was retrospective and observer blinded . t lymphocytes were quantitated using uchl-1 , a pan-t-cell monoclonal antibody , and plasma cell number was estimated in hematoxylin-eosin-stained sections . differences in both variables reached statistical significance . there were fewer t cells and the number of plasma cells was significantly higher in specimens from the human immunodeficiency virus-positive individuals in comparison with control specimens . as plasma cells are readily identified on hematoxylin-eosin-stained sections , their presence in skin biopsy specimens from psoriatic leisons should arouse suspicion of human immunodeficiency virus infection . the depletion of helper/inducer t lymphocytes by the human immunodeficiency virus may promote the presence of plasma cells in cutaneous inflammatory infiltrates . 
profile of bronchospastic disease in puerto rican patients in new york city . a possible relationship to alpha 1-antitrypsin variants . a high prevalence of asthmalike symptoms was noted among patients of puerto rican descent attending beth israel and north central bronx medical centers in new york city , as compared with other ethnic groups . an evaluation of family and medical histories , pulmonary function data , and alpha 1-antitrypsin phenotypes was undertaken in such puerto rican patients and control subjects without asthma . the patients showed a higher proportion of ms and mv phenotypes . all the patients in both mm and variant phenotype groups , with the exception of four mm patients , had features indicative of asthma , with labile airway obstruction , and elevated serum immunoglobulin e and eosinophil levels . the latter was significantly higher in the patients with variant phenotypes than in mm patients . patients with alpha 1-antitrypsin variants also had much shorter smoking histories as compared with the mm group , and all reported histories of asthma in first-degree relatives , as compared with 66 % among the mm patients . we conclude that there is an increased incidence of asthma among puerto ricans in new york city , and that the antitrypsin variant phenotypes ( specifically s and v ) play a role in this incidence and its expression . 
sulfadiazine crystalluria revisited . the treatment of toxoplasma encephalitis in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . toxoplasma gondii encephalitis is an important opportunistic infection in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , estimated to occur in 20,000 to 40,000 patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in the united states by 1991 . the combination of sulfadiazine and pyrimethamine is regarded as the treatment of choice . acute renal failure due to crystal deposition in the urinary tract was well described 30 to 40 years ago and is likely to resurface as a clinical entity if appropriate prophylactic measures are not taken . we describe two cases of sulfadiazine-induced crystalluria and renal failure in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , review the pertinent literature , and discuss the pathogenesis . recommendations are made for the prophylaxis and treatment of sulfadiazine-related renal toxic reaction . physicians using this " new " drug must be aware of the potential danger of sulfonamide-induced injury to the urinary tract . 
recurrent meningitis in a patient with congenital deficiency of the c9 component of complement . first case of c9 deficiency in europe . we describe the first cases , to our knowledge , of c9 deficiency in europe that were detected in a swiss family , of which two members -- one with a complete deficiency and the other with approximately half-normal c9 levels -- experienced bacterial meningitis . the index patient , a 56-year-old white man with a history of purulent meningitis at the age of 23 years , presented with an acute meningococcal meningitis . no impairment of cellular immunity or immunoglobulin deficiency could be found . complement assays showed a complete deficiency of the c9 component , while the other individual component levels were normal and the hemolytic activity ( measured using the ch50 assay ) was only slightly reduced . a family study revealed complete c9 deficiency in the patient 's healthy brother and half-normal c9 concentrations in his sister , his son ( who also had experienced an episode of bacterial meningitis ) , and his niece , consistent with an inherited c9 deficiency . this first case of recurrent meningitis in a white patient with complete c9 deficiency suggests that this complement defect may also be a risk factor for bacterial , especially neisserial , infections . 
extrahepatic biliary obstruction by lymphoma . extrinsic compression of the common bile duct by enlarged lymph nodes is an unusual cause of obstructive jaundice . we describe two patients with such a manifestation of lymphoma and the use of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography in distinguishing this rare complication from other causes of jaundice in lymphoma . patients may have rapid resolution of both symptoms and biochemical abnormalities by nonoperative biliary bypass combined with chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy . lymphomatous obstruction should be considered a cause of potentially treatable jaundice in patients with known lymphoma ; endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography can be valuable as a diagnostic and therapeutic tool . 
asthma and eczema in children born to women with migraine . migraine and asthma have been reported to occur in the same person more commonly than would be expected if they are independent . the large collaborative perinatal project provided an opportunity to see if children born to women with migraine or with the group of disorders characterized by asthma and/or allergies were more likely to manifest asthma or eczema in the first 7 years of life . among children whose mothers had neither migraine nor asthma/allergies , 3.2 % had asthma . of children whose mothers had migraine , but not asthma/allergies , more than 6 % had asthma . the risk of asthma among children born to women who had both migraine and asthma/allergies was greater than the risk associated with each maternal disease . the risk of eczema in children was not appreciably influenced by the mother 's propensity to migraine or asthma/allergies . the results of this first study of migraine in one generation and asthma in the next lead to the conclusion that the two disorders are probably related . 
evidence for impaired t cell dna methylation in systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis . procainamide and hydralazine inhibit t cell dna methylation and induce autoreactivity in cloned cd4 + t cells . these drugs also induce an autoimmune syndrome , suggesting a possible relationship between dna hypomethylation , t cell autoreactivity , and certain autoimmune diseases . to test this relationship , dna methylation was studied in t cells from patients with rheumatoid arthritis and patients with systemic lupus erythematosus , and was found to be impaired . these results support a relationship between dna hypomethylation and some forms of autoimmune disease . 
association of labial salivary gland histopathology with clinical and serologic features of connective tissue diseases . focal sialadenitis is now widely accepted as an objective criterion for the oral component of sjogren 's syndrome ( xerostomia ) . we investigated the association between labial salivary gland histopathologic changes and the clinical and serologic features of 192 patients with suspected connective tissue disorders . a retrospective review of the medical records of all patients was performed , and historical , physical , laboratory , histologic , and roentgenographic data were abstracted . each patient had undergone labial salivary gland biopsy as part of a rheumatologic evaluation . there were significant associations between positive findings on lip biopsy and the presence of keratoconjunctivitis sicca ( p = 0.013 ) , positive antinuclear antibodies ( titer greater than or equal to 1:80 ) ( p = 2 x 10 ( -8 ) ) , and positive ro antibodies ( p = 1 x 10 ( -8 ) ) . however , sicca symptoms and glandular enlargement were not statistically associated with positive findings on lip biopsy . features predictive of a positive lip biopsy included ro antibodies ( p = 0.914 ) , keratoconjunctivitis sicca ( p = 0.700 ) , and positive antinuclear antibodies ( p = 0.590 ) . 
nontropical pyomyositis as a cause of subacute , multifocal myalgia in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . we report a case of nontropical pyomyositis in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and disseminated mycobacterium avium infection , in which severe myalgia was the presenting symptom over several weeks . multifocal muscle lesions were identified by gallium scanning and magnetic resonance imaging techniques . the epidemiology , possible pathogenesis , clinical features , diagnostic imaging , and therapy are reviewed . early suspicion of nontropical pyomyositis in severely immunocompromised patients with " cryptic " myalgia is recommended . 
rescue of interleukin-1 activity by leucovorin following inhibition by methotrexate in a murine in vitro system . we have recently shown that methotrexate ( mtx ) inhibits interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) activity in vitro . this effect may play an important role in the rapid antiinflammatory action of mtx in rheumatoid arthritis . in the present study , we showed that the inhibition of il-1 activity in vitro by mtx is dependent on folate pathways since , after the addition of leucovorin , the inhibitory effect of mtx was abolished . these findings may shed more light on the mechanism of action of mtx in rheumatoid arthritis . they also point to the fact that some il-1 activities may be dependent on intracellular folate pathways . 
medical and dental students ' attitudes about the aids epidemic . this study investigated changes , over a one-year period , in medical and dental students ' attitudes toward various issues related to contact with aids patients . in 1988 and 1989 , the authors surveyed second - and third-year medical and dental students at one medical school both before and after they completed a year of required clinical training . the dental students remained consistently more anxious and more restrictive in their attitudes toward treating patients with aids than did their medical student counterparts , and became more conservative ( fearful ) in their attitudes after working with aids patients , whereas the medical students became more liberal . overall , both groups were more concerned about contracting aids in their professional lives than in their personal lives . over one-third of the medical students and two-thirds of the dental students indicated that they did not wish to train in a specialty or hospital with a high percentage of aids patients , and a substantial minority of the students in both groups did not feel that they were responsible for treating all patients whom they were qualified to treat . these and related results suggest that aids-related anxiety may influence students ' career choices and behaviors and the quality of care patients receive . suggestions for educational strategies to address students ' fears -- both warranted and unwarranted -- and the differences in attitudes between students of different health-care professions are discussed . 
the impact of an aids symposium on attitudes of providers of pediatric health care . following reports of concern among health-care workers regarding the occupational risk of infection with the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) , a symposium was designed in 1987 to demonstrate to health-care providers at three hospitals in the bronx , new york , the low risk of occupational hiv infection and techniques for avoiding infection . after the symposium , 103 of the health-care providers who had attended it completed a questionnaire assessing the impact of the symposium on their attitudes ; the responses from 100 of these providers were used in this study . twenty-nine of the responding providers reported that the symposium had increased their concerns regarding their risk of hiv infection ; this group was composed of seven of the 15 medical students who responded , 12 of the 36 housestaff , seven of the 28 faculty , and three of the 21 other medical staff . the findings of the present study suggest that a symposium designed to decrease concerns of occupational hiv infection among health-care workers may have the opposite effect on some of those who attend it , especially medical students . education alone may be inadequate to reassure some providers . the authors recommend small-group sessions addressing the emotional aspects of health-care providers ' concerns . 
attitudes of medical school faculty and students toward acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . attitudes of faculty and students will influence the success of educational programs to address acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . in 1988-89 , 170 medical school faculty and 227 students completed needs assessment questionnaires at the university of louisville , and the results were compared to assess the respondents ' attitudes about aids . both the faculty and the students were found to be fearful of infection , had strong negative attitudes toward aids patients , and had low levels of confidence in the current knowledge about aids . both cognitive and affective training strategies are recommended to help learners distinguish unwarranted from warranted fears of infection and to increase their empathy for patients with aids . 
medical and nursing students ' attitudes about aids issues . a 12-item questionnaire was administered in late 1987-early 1988 to 445 medical students , 133 medical school applicants , and 111 nursing students to assess any differences in their attitudes toward medicine-related aids issues . these groups were also given a 31-item test of their knowledge of aids issues . significant differences by levels of knowledge were obtained for eight of the 12 attitude items . for example , the more knowledgeable the student , the less likely he or she was to refuse treatment to an aids patient , to require mandatory aids testing of physicians , or to require medical personnel to wear gloves . the findings strongly suggest that education has an important role in changing attitudes about aids in a direction that fosters better health care for aids patients . 
predictors of medical and nursing students ' levels of hiv-aids knowledge and their resistance to working with aids patients . among health professionals , knowledge about the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) is often limited , inaccurate , or both . many health professionals also resist working with aids patients . this 1988 survey examined exaggerated risk estimates for hiv contagion in relationship to hiv-aids knowledge and resistance to working with aids patients among medical and nursing students at a large northwestern teaching hospital . the results indicate that among the respondents , exaggerated risk estimates were associated both with a lack of hiv-aids knowledge and with greater resistance to working with aids patients . results from multiple regression analyses revealed that ( 1 ) a lack of clinical experience with aids patients and ( 2 ) antihomosexual attitudes were significantly associated with the students ' lack of hiv-aids knowledge , even after controlling for the effects of exaggerated risk estimates . the first two variables also were shown to be significantly predictive of the students ' resistance to working with aids patients , as was an intolerance of drug use and drug users , beyond the influence of exaggerated risk estimates . specific approaches of developing effective hiv-aids educational programs for health professionals are proposed . 
willingness of health-professions students to treat patients with aids . this 1988-89 survey of 319 students in the medical , dental , nursing , and allied health-care professions revealed that over one-third had some reservations about treating acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) patients . most were unwilling to perform mouth-to-mouth resuscitation on patients with aids , and most also believed that health-care workers had the right to refuse care to aids patients . unwillingness to treat aids patients was strongly associated with homophobic attitudes and concerns that patients with aids posed a risk to health professionals . aids education for health professionals should emphasize methods for the prevention of hiv infection among health workers , and include teaching strategies designed to deal with the irrational feelings that aids often engenders . 
silent infections with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 are highly unlikely in multitransfused seronegative hemophiliacs . we used the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) to determine the frequency of silent human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) infections in seronegative high-risk individuals with hemophilia who had been exposed to contaminated blood products more than 3 years previously . in a cross-sectional study of a cohort of 57 prospectively followed seronegative hemophiliacs who received multiple transfusions before 1986 , hiv-1 proviral dna was found transiently in only one patient . these data suggest that the rate of hiv infection among high-risk antibody negative individuals with hemophilia is very low to absent , in the range of 0 % to 2 % . these findings should provide considerable reassurance to seronegative persons with hemophilia and their sexual partners . 
serum soluble interleukin-2 receptor is associated with clinical and pathologic disease status in hairy cell leukemia hairy cell leukemia is a chronic lymphoproliferative disorder of b-cell lineage , whose malignant cells express the interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) receptor . a soluble form of the il-2 receptor is released by these cells in culture , and the sera of patients with hairy cell leukemia contain elevated levels of this soluble receptor . four hundred twenty-seven serum samples from 101 patients were analyzed for soluble il-2 receptor ( sil-2r ) . the clinical status of patients appeared to be associated with the serum level of sil-2r . the hairy cell index ( a measure of tumor cell burden ) was correlated with the square root of the serum sil-2r level ( r = .77 ) . improved clinical status was associated with decreasing serum sil-2r levels , whereas disease relapse was associated with increasing levels . notably , every patient who responded to therapy had a decline in serum sil-2r level , and every patient with disease progression had an increase in serum sil-2r level . this phenomenon was observed for several different treatments , including standard-dose interferon , low-dose interferon , and deoxycoformycin . the predictive reliability of this test is currently being prospectively evaluated . 
differentiating agents facilitate infection of myeloid leukemia cell lines by monocytotropic hiv-1 strains [ published erratum appears in blood 1991 apr 1 ; 77 ( 7 ) :1624 ] monocytotropic human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) isolates from patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) infect mononuclear phagocytes as well as activated t cells , but do not usually infect immature human myeloid cell lines in vitro . the hl-60 promyelocytic/myeloblastic cell line and the promonocytic line , u937 , were susceptible to productive infection by monocytotropic hiv-1 isolates ( hiv-1jr-fl and htlv-iiiba-l ) after treatment with retinoic acid , dimethyl sulfoxide , dibutyryl camp , 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 ( 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 ) , or 12-o-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate ( tpa ) . virus production was only detected when these compounds were added before virus infection . virus replication did not correlate with cd4 receptor expression because undifferentiated hl-60 cells express cd4 and the level of cd4 expression did not increase after differentiation in the presence of retinoic acid , 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 , or tpa . a mature monocytic cell line ( thp-1 ) was capable of infection without pretreatment , and treatment with differentiating agents enhanced virus production . a chronically infected cell line ( j-hl-60 ) was isolated after hiv-1jr-fl infection of hl-60 cells treated with retinoic acid . virus production in this cell line was enhanced more than 10-fold after differentiation in the presence of 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 or tpa . the majority of virus production by 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3-treated j-hl-60 cells was associated with the mature , adherent population . molecular analysis of a cloned line of j-hl-60 showed integration of a single dna provirus . these results suggest that cellular factors associated with precursor cell differentiation along the myelomonocytic pathway are required for optimal replication of monocytotropic hiv-1 strains in vitro . 
induction of in vitro graft-versus-leukemia activity following bone marrow transplantation for chronic myeloid leukemia . we studied the in vitro effects of lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cells from the peripheral blood of chronic myeloid leukemia ( cml ) patients after allogeneic and syngeneic bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) . lak cells were generated by incubating peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients post-bmt with recombinant interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) ( 500 u/ml ) in 10 % ab serum for 7 days . they were phenotyped and tested for activity in a standard 4-hour 51cr release assay ( n = 37 ) and in a cfu-gm assay ( n = 24 ) . we found that the lak cells were mainly activated natural killer cells , but some were cd3 + t cells . in the 51cr release assay lak cells from 20 of 33 ( 61 % ) allogeneic and 2 of 4 syngeneic recipients killed recipient cml cells and in 22 of 37 ( 60 % ) cases also killed the hla disparate cml cells . in the cfu-gm assay the lak cells incubated together with the cml cells in liquid culture before plating inhibited ( p less than .05 ) colony growth in 16 of 22 allogeneic and 2 of 2 syngeneic recipients . cell-cell contact was necessary for optimal effect . there was little or no inhibition of proliferation of donor marrow cfu-gm . this in vitro graft-versus-leukemia ( gvl ) effect could also be demonstrated after lak effectors were depleted of cd3 + t cells . it was inducible in recipients of both t cell-depleted and t cell-replete donor marrow and in recipients with or without graft-versus-host disease . these results suggest that a major histocompatibility complex-unrestricted gvl effect is inducible following allogeneic and syngeneic bmt . the use of il-2 / lak cells after bmt could reduce the risk of relapse . 
expression of p-glycoprotein in adult t-cell leukemia cells . we have examined the expression of p-glycoprotein ( p-gp ) in adult t-cell leukemia ( atl ) samples from 25 patients . based on immunoblotting with a monoclonal antibody against p-gp , c219 , 8 of 20 atl patients were p-gp positive at the initial presentation . all 6 patients at the relapsed stage were p-gp positive , and refractory to chemotherapy . the expression of mdr1 mrna in p-gp-positive atl cells was increased at the relapsed stage of one patient . p-gp of this patient was photolabeled with [ 3h ] azidopine and the labeling was inhibited with nimodipine , vinblastine and progesterone . these results suggest that p-gp expressed in atl cells from patients at relapsed stage has the same binding site ( s ) for the drugs as that in multidrug resistant cells , and is correlated with the refractory nature of the cells to chemotherapy . 
cell membrane expression and functional role of the p75 subunit of interleukin-2 receptor in lymphoproliferative disease of granular lymphocytes . the cell membrane expression and functional role of the interleukin-2 receptor ( il-2r ) was analyzed in nine patients with lymphoproliferative disease of granular lymphocytes ( ldgl ) using monoclonal antibodies ( moabs ) specific for the p75 ( tu27 ) and the p55 ( anti-tac ) subunits of il-2r . four patients were characterized by the proliferation of cd3 + cd8 + granular lymphocytes ( gl ) expressing the alpha/beta t-cell receptor ( t alpha beta ) and one case by the proliferation of cd3 + cd4-cd8 - gl expressing the gamma/delta t-cell receptor ( t gamma delta ) ; in four additional cases proliferating cells were cd3 negative gl . consistent with data observed on normal gl , phenotypic analysis demonstrated that patients ' gl lack the expression of the p55 il-2r , whereas the p75 subunit is constitutionally expressed by expanding gl of both t-cell ( either t alpha beta and t gamma delta ) and natural killer ( nk ) origin in variable proportions ( 11 % to 94 % of cells ) . the analysis of the cytotoxic and proliferative activity demonstrated that the anti-p55 moab failed to inhibit il-2-mediated activation , whereas a marked inhibition of both cytotoxicity and proliferation were obtained using the anti-p75 chain specific moab . these data indicate that the p75 chain of il-2r is responsible for il-2 signal transduction in both cd3 + and cd3 - ldgl patients ' gl . 
association of bcl-1 rearrangements with lymphocytic lymphoma of intermediate differentiation . previous studies using classical cytogenetics have demonstrated the presence of the t ( 11 ; 14 ) ( q13 ; q32 ) chromosomal translocation in some cases of lymphocytic lymphoma of intermediate differentiation ( idl ) , a distinct type of low grade b-cell lymphoma . this finding suggested that the bcl-1 region ( located at band q13 of chromosome 11 ) might be involved in this neoplasm . using a genomic probe from the major breakpoint area of the bcl-1 locus , we identified rearrangements of the bcl-1 region in 10 of 19 cases , 2 of which comigrated with a rearranged allele of the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene joining region . in contrast , bcl-1 rearrangements were not found in other types of low grade b-cell lymphoma , specifically in 36 cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma ( cll/sll ) and 27 cases of follicular lymphoma ( fl ) . to further assess the molecular pathology of idl , we analyzed these cases for rearrangements of the bcl-2 proto-oncogene , which is associated primarily with follicular lymphomas . none of the 19 cases of idl had rearrangements . furthermore , none of the 36 cases of cll/sll showed bcl-2 rearrangements , whereas , as expected , 21 of 27 cases of fl had rearrangements of the bcl-2 locus . our findings demonstrate an association between a rearranged bcl-1 region with approximately 50 % of idls and suggest that abnormalities of this locus may be important in the pathogenesis of idl . 
response patterns of hairy cell leukemia to b-cell mitogens and growth factors . the effect of mitogens and/or recombinant b-cell growth factors ( m/gfs ) on the in vitro growth of hairy cells was examined . tumor cells were isolated from the spleens of four patients with hairy cell leukemia ( hcl ) by ficoll-hypaque sedimentation and e-rosetting . enrichment for tumor cells was confirmed with intracytoplasmic immunoglobulin ( ig ) staining , tartrate resistant acid phosphatase ( trap ) staining , and staining using monoclonal antibodies ( moabs ) directed at b , t , myeloid , and monocytoid antigens ( ags ) in indirect immunofluorescence assays . tumor cells were b1 ( cd20 ) + b2 ( cd21 ) - b4 ( cd19 ) + il-2r ( cd25 ) + pca-1 + / - trap + . hcls neither synthesized dna nor secreted ig in response to culture with granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) , interleukin-1 alpha ( il-1 alpha ) , il-1 beta , il-2 , il-3 , il-4 , il-5 , or il-6 . however , a proliferative response ( stimulation index greater than or equal to 3.0 ) without ig secretion was triggered in hcls by mitogens or combinations of gfs . specifically , dna synthesis was induced at 3 days in three of four hcl samples cultured with staphylococcus aureus cowan a ( sac ) or the combination of phorbol ester ( tpa ) and the calcium ionophore a 23187 ( ca2 + ) ; dna synthesis was triggered later ( day 7 ) by tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) or by il-4 and il-5 . in contrast , the fourth patient , a nonresponder to sac or tpa/ca2 + , demonstrated increased dna synthesis at day 3 when cocultured with il-4 and il-5 . both autoradiography and staining with antibromodeoxyuridine ( brdu ) moab conjugated to fluorescein confirmed dna synthesis by only a minority ( 5 % to 23 % ) of tumor cells within each patient . dual staining confirmed that responsive cells were both brdu + and trap + . dna synthesis induced by tpa/ca2 + was blocked specifically by anti-il-6 ab ; in contrast , the hcl proliferative response to sac , tnf , or il-4 and il-5 was not inhibited by anti-il-6 ab . alpha-interferon inhibited the response to tpa/ca2 + , tnf , or il-4 and il-5 without any effect on response to sac . finally , peroxidase-antiperoxidase staining demonstrated that hcls are induced by tpa/ca2 + , but not by sac , to produce intracytoplasmic il-6 . these data demonstrate il-4 , il-5 , and il-6 mediated dna synthesis by hcls in vitro and suggest a possible in vivo role for these growth factors in the pathophysiology of hcl . 
airway hyperresponsiveness in patients with microvascular angina . evidence for a diffuse disorder of smooth muscle responsiveness . anginal chest pain in patients with angiographically normal coronary arteries may be caused by a limited coronary flow response to stress because of abnormal function of the coronary microcirculation ( microvascular angina ) . studies of forearm arterial function suggested that patients with microvascular angina may have a diffuse disorder of smooth muscle tone . because dyspnea is common in these patients and seems disproportionate to the severity of myocardial ischemia , we studied air flow ( forced expiratory volume in 1 second , or fev1 ) in the basal state and after methacholine inhalation to determine whether bronchial smooth muscle is affected in this syndrome . five of 36 patients with microvascular angina had a basal fev1 of less than 70 % of that predicted and did not receive methacholine . of the remaining 31 patients , 14 ( 45 % ) had a more-than-20 % reduction in fev1 after methacholine inhalation ( as much as 25 mg/ml ) , a response significantly greater than that of nine patients with heart disease ( 0 % , p less than 0.025 ) and 24 normal volunteers of similar age and gender distribution ( 13 % , p less than 0.025 ) . furthermore , the product of the methacholine dose inhaled and the magnitude of decline in fev1 from baseline ( methacholine response score ) was significantly lower in patients with microvascular angina than in normal volunteers ( 16 + / - 8.6 versus 22.2 + / - 3.7 , p = 0.026 ) . we conclude that airway hyperresponsiveness is frequently demonstrable in patients with microvascular angina ; these findings are consistent with our hypothesis that this syndrome may represent a more generalized abnormality of vascular and nonvascular smooth muscle function . 
evaluation and treatment of mental disorders in patients with aids . mental symptoms are common in patients with aids . optimal management involves the identification and treatment of underlying mental disorders rather than symptomatic treatment alone . organic mental disorders are very frequent in aids , particularly with seriously ill patients who are medical inpatients . there is a high priori probability that such common symptoms as agitation , irritability , and insomnia will be caused by an organic mental disorder . psychopharmacology in the patient with aids requires considerable caution . lower doses and careful surveillance for subtle neuropsychiatric side effects are necessary . routine medical contact with a compassionate physician may be of inestimable value to the patient in coping with the fear and dread that surround the illness . 
intestinal perforation due to cytomegalovirus infection in patients with aids . intestinal perforation due to cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infection in patients with aids is the most common life-threatening condition requiring emergency celiotomy in these patients . the authors describe a patient with aids with intestinal perforation due to cmv infection , and review 14 additional cases reported in the english-language surgical literature . the diagnostic triad of pneumoperitoneum on x-ray , evidence or history of cmv infection , and aids occurred in 70 percent of patients . the most common site of intestinal perforation was the colon ( 53 percent ) , followed in frequency by the distal ileum ( 40 percent ) and appendix ( 7 percent ) ; perforation usually occurred between the distal ileum and splenic flexure of the colon . colonoscopy , rather than sigmoidoscopy , is recommended as a screening examination in patients with aids suspected of having colonic ulceration due to cmv infection . multiple biopsies of ulcerated tissue should be obtained . gross and microscopic analyses of involved intestinal tissue reveal the characteristic findings of ulceration and cmv infection . despite aggressive therapy , the operative mortality rate in patients with aids with intestinal perforation due to cmv infection was 54 percent and the overall mortality rate was 87 percent . postoperative complications occurred in most patients and consisted mainly of systemic sepsis and pneumonia caused by pneumocystis carinii infection . an increased awareness of this syndrome by physicians frequently called on to manage patients with aids is recommended . 
anal ulcerations due to cytomegalovirus in patients with aids . report of six cases . lesions due to cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) are frequent in the immunocompromised patient . this is particularly the case in patients with aids , where the colon and rectum are the regions most often involved . the authors report six cases of anal ulcerations due to cmv in patients with aids . these lesions , confirmed histologically , were either isolated or associated with other localizations . treatment is based on specific antiviral agents but resistance and recurrence can occur . the current report underlines the importance of histologic examination of anal lesions in hiv-infected subjects . 
sexually transmitted diseases of the colon , rectum , and anus . the challenge of the nineties . during the past two decades , an explosive growth in both the prevalence and types of sexually transmitted diseases has occurred . up to 55 percent of homosexual men with anorectal complaints have gonorrhea ; 80 percent of the patients with syphilis are homosexuals . chlamydia is found in 15 percent of asymptomatic homosexual men , and up to one third of homosexuals have active anorectal herpes simplex virus . in addition , a host of parasites , bacterial , viral , and protozoan are all rampant in the homosexual population . furthermore , the global epidemic of aids has produced a plethora of colorectal manifestations . acute cytomegalovirus ileocolitis is the most common indication for emergency abdominal surgery in the homosexual aids population . along with cryptosporidia and isospora , the patient may present to the colorectal surgeon with bloody diarrhea and weight loss before the diagnosis of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) disease . other patients may present with colorectal kaposi 's sarcoma or anorectal lymphoma , and consequently will be found to have seropositivity for hiv . however , in addition to these protean manifestations , one third of patients with aids consult the colorectal surgeon with either condylomata acuminata , anorectal sepsis , or proctitis before the diagnosis of hiv disease . although aggressive anorectal surgery is associated with reasonable surgical results in some asymptomatic hiv positive patients , the same procedures in aids ( symptomatic hiv positive ) patients will often be met with disastrous results . it is incumbent upon the surgeon , therefore , to recognize the manifestations of hiv disease and diagnose these conditions accordingly . 
a novel x-linked combined immunodeficiency disease . a novel x-linked combined immunodeficiency disease was found in five living males in an extended family in the united states . the age of the affected males ranged from 2.5 to 34 yr . the most prominent clinical abnormalities were a paucity of lymphoid tissue ; recurrent sinusitis , otitis media , bronchitis , and pneumonia ; severe varicella ; and chronic papillomavirus infections . the principal immunologic features of the disorder were normal concentrations of serum immunoglobulins but restricted formation of igg antibodies to immunogens ; normal numbers of b cells and nk cells but decreased numbers of cd4 + and cd8 + t lymphocytes , particularly the cd45ra + subpopulations ; diminished proliferative responses of blood t cells to allogeneic cells , mitogens and antigens ; and decreased production of il-2 by mitogen stimulated blood lymphocytes . thus , affected males in this family carry an abnormal gene on their x chromosome that results in a combined immunodeficiency that is distinct from previously reported disorders . 
mapping of a functional autoimmune epitope on the beta 1-adrenergic receptor in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy . the presence and properties of serum autoantibodies against beta-adrenergic receptors in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy were studied using synthetic peptides derived from the predicted sequences of the human beta-adrenergic receptors . peptides corresponding to the sequences of the second extracellular loop of the human beta 1 - and beta 2-adrenergic receptors were used as antigens in an enzyme immunoassay to screen sera from patients with dilated cardiomyopathy ( n = 42 ) , ischemic heart disease ( n = 17 ) , or healthy blood donors ( n = 34 ) . the sera of thirteen dilated cardiomyopathy patients , none of the ischemic heart disease patients , and four of the healthy controls monospecifically recognized the beta 1-peptide . only affinity-purified antibodies of these patients had a inhibitory effect on radioligand binding to the beta 1 receptor of c6 rat glioma cells . they recognized the receptor protein by immunoblot and bound in situ to human myocardial tissue . we conclude that a subgroup of patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy have in their sera autoantibodies specifically directed against the second extracellular loop of the beta 1-adrenergic receptor . these antibodies could serve as a marker of an autoimmune response with physiological and/or pathological implications . 
the hiv cytopathic effect : potential target for therapy ? hiv kills activated infected cd4 + t cells after a burst of replication and the release of large numbers of virions . from a review of the literature on hiv regulatory genes and from preliminary mathematical models of hiv dynamics at four levels ( host population epidemiology , the immune system , gene regulation within infected cells , and selection of mutants ) we have arrived at the theory that in the etiology of hiv the hiv cytopathic effect may actively be caused by a viral regulatory gene product . the most likely candidate is the rev regulatory protein . rev and the analogous rex protein from htlv-i ( human t cell leukemia virus ) both have two active sites with similar function : one site locates the protein in the nucleus/nucleolus , and the other site interacts with viral mrnas , facilitating their export from the nucleus to the cytoplasm . rev seems to have a third functional site near the 3 ' end . we conjecture that this site may be responsible for the cytopathic effect . we think that rev acts on cellular genes that normally induce senescence and cell death during development , or t-cell maturation , or on terminal differentiation . we propose that mathematical and computer models of the immune system could be used to explore whether suppression of the cytopathic action of the rev protein could be of therapeutic benefit in restoring the ability of the immune system to clear hiv or at least to extend latency . we also suggest how immune deficiency disease might be created as laboratory artifact in animal populations . 
mathematical models of hiv infection . i. threshold conditions for transmission and host survival . this is the second in a series of papers modeling human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infections at four levels : transmission , interaction with the immune system , gene regulation , and selection of mutants . in the previous paper ( 1 ) we described and presented a theory of the hiv cytopathic effect based upon the models ( and a review of the literature ) . in this article we give mathematical equations of threshold conditions that connect infectivity , length of host survival , and frequency of acts conducive to transmission . the formula is derived not only for homogeneous populations but also for populations of an arbitrary number of subgroups with varying frequencies of risk behavior , varying rates of infection and latency periods , and varying frequencies of interaction with other groups . 
predominance of polymorphonuclear leukocytes in cerebrospinal fluid of aids patients with cytomegalovirus polyradiculomyelitis . cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) polyradiculomyelitis was diagnosed in 4 of 241 consecutive neurologically assessed human immunodeficiency virus type ( hiv-1 ) seropositive patients . cmv-related neurologic disease was suspected on clinical grounds and was subsequently confirmed by cmv culture from cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) and/or cmv in situ hybridization on specific specimens . all four patients showed csf pleocytosis with predominance of polymorphonuclear leukocytes ( pmns ) . retrospective analysis of the results of csf examination , performed in 143 of 241 patients with neurologic symptoms , showed pleocytosis in 58 of 143 patients . predominance of pmns was found in seven patients , including the four with cmv polyradiculomyelitis . it is concluded that in hiv-1 seropositive patients with a clinical diagnosis of polyradiculomyelitis , a predominance of pmns in csf could be an indication that the condition is cmv related . this should lead to early diagnosis and institution of specific antiviral therapy . 
isolation of hiv-1 from the blood of seropositive adults : patient stage of illness and sample inoculum size are major determinants of a positive culture . the walter reed retroviral research group . results of hiv-1 blood cultures from 609 seropositive adults across all stages of illness at the walter reed army medical center were reviewed . hiv-1 was isolated by coculturing of patient peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes ( pbmcs ) with normal blood donor target pbmcs that had been stimulated with phytohemagglutinin and interleukin-2 . the hiv-1 isolation success rate at walter reed increased progressively each year from 1986 to 1989 . in 1989 , hiv-1 was isolated from a single blood specimen from patients in walter reed stages 1-2 , 3-4 , and 5-6 in 75 % ( 49/65 ) , 90 % ( 37/41 ) , and 97 % ( 30/31 ) of cases , respectively . none of 22 blinded negative control specimens was positive . pbmc cultures from late stage patients regularly became positive within 7 days ( 92 % ) , compared to only 46 % of positive cultures from early stage patients . for most patients , the lowest number of serially diluted pbmcs that resulted in a positive culture was 30,000 patient pbmcs , but the range was 300 to 3 million cells . hiv-1 was isolated less frequently from plasma ( 5/18 , 28 % ) . plasma viremia was detected only in patients with relatively high titers of infected pbmcs . forty-six blood specimens from " at-risk " seronegative adults were also cocultured ; none was positive . 
tracking the spread of the hiv infection epidemic among young adults in the united states : results of the first four years of screening among civilian applicants for u.s. military service . because the period from infection to clinically apparent disease is long , variable , and changing as new therapies are developed and applied , aids data are inadequate for tracking current values of critical parameters of hiv infection epidemics : prevalence of infection , rate of acquisition of new infections ( incidence rate ) , and direction and rate of change of infection incidence over time ( acceleration ) . these " vital signs " of infection epidemics can be tracked using serial cross-sectional seroprevalence data , however . from october 1985 through september 1989 , more than 2.3 million applicants for u.s. military service were screened for antibody to hiv . the overall seroprevalence was 1.31 per 1,000 ( 3,014 / 2,300,675 ) . seroprevalences were highest near urban centers of the aids epidemic and were independently associated with age , race/ethnicity , and gender . based on age seroprevalence trends , it was crudely estimated that at least one of 2,000 young men and one of 7,000 young women are infected with hiv annually in the u.s. infection incidence rates , estimated from age and temporal trends , were estimated to be highest among black males ( 1.40 / 1,000 / year ) and lowest among white females ( 0.03 / 1,000 / year ) . poisson regression analysis of seroprevalence trends suggested that infection incidence rates accelerated among black females during the first 3 years of screening . since selection factors undoubtedly changed over the period , estimates based on these data probably underestimate actual values in the general population , particularly near urban aids epicenters . nonetheless , even crude estimates of these critical values , particularly among adolescents and young adults , are useful to guide policy development , to allocate resources , and to monitor program effects . 
relapse from safer sex : the next challenge for aids prevention efforts . prevention campaigns to reduce sexual transmission of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) typically emphasize the initial adoption of safer sex techniques . we present data from a 5-year prospective study to show that the vast majority of resident gay men in san francisco have made these initial risk reductions . rather , relapse from safer sex techniques is now the predominant predominant kind of high-risk sex , accounting for approximately two thirds of all prevalent high-risk sex in the 1988 wave of data collection . predictors of relapse from safer sex are identified , and these are discussed in terms of their implications for preventing relapse from the exclusive practice of safe sex . in communities that have already manifested widespread behavioral risk reductions and in which hiv infection is highly prevalent , finding ways to prevent relapse of behavioral risk reductions will be the next important challenge in the fight against acquired immune deficiency syndrome . 
seroprevalence of hiv-2 infection in greece ( crete ) . the seroprevalence of hiv-2 was evaluated in 20,407 consecutive normal blood donors , 100 homo - and/or bisexuals , and 7,020 heterosexuals presenting for an hiv test using an eia test . sixty-seven sera were revealed to be repeatedly positive . analysis by western blot confirmed the infection in four cases , an indeterminate ( antibodies against only the gag-encoded proteins ) pattern was revealed in 25 cases , whereas 38 sera were negative . three of the four hiv-2-positive sera also reacted with two distinct , but close , synthetic peptides homologous to viral gp36 . the fourth serum , which did not display antibodies against gp36 on western blot , did not react with gp36-derived synthetic peptides . none of these sera reacted with native hiv-1 antigens or synthetic peptides homologous to gp41 . sera with an indeterminate hiv-2 western blot did not react with gp36-derived synthetic peptides . although 10 of them also displayed an indeterminate hiv-1 western blot , no serum sample reacted with two gp41-derived synthetic peptides or proved to be positive when they tested for p24 antigen . one bisexual and one heterosexual hiv-2 positive subject reported sexual contacts with west africans , whereas two other heterosexuals had had multiple sexual partners from different countries . 
seroprevalence of hiv infection in the general population of the cote d'ivoire , west africa . a seroepidemiological survey to determine the prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection in the general population of the ivory coast was carried out in february 1989 . sera were collected from subjects between 15 and 65 years old in urban areas ( not including abidjan ) and rural areas using the cluster sample technique . a total of 1,700 people were tested in urban areas , and 125 ( 7.3 % ) were hiv positive . this rate varied significantly with age and sex ; a maximum rate of 16.3 % was observed among men between 35 and 44 years old . in rural areas , a total of 3,199 people were tested , and 159 ( 4.9 % ) were positive for hiv ; the highest rate ( 10.7 % ) was noted in the men aged 25-34 years . the high seroprevalence recorded in the general population in urban and rural areas is compatible with the incidences of acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) cases reported in hospitals all over the country . 
suppressive effects of morphine pellet implants on in vivo parameters of immune function . chronic morphine treatment elicits a variety of immunosuppressive effects in mice . most of the work describing this immuno-suppressive activity of the opioid is based on in vitro assessments of the performance of certain components of the immune system in morphine-treated animals . relatively little has been done by way of tracking the effects of chronic morphine treatment on immunologic parameters in the intact animal . therefore , this study used several classic in vivo determinations of immune function in mice treated chronically with morphine . morphine pellet ( 75 mg ) implantation led to a significant inhibition ( 91 % ) of paw swelling in a picryl chloride-induced delayed type hypersensitivity response . uptake of iododeoxyuridine in an in vivo lymphocyte proliferation assay and splenomegaly in a graft vs. host reaction were also significantly suppressed by morphine pellet implantation ( 34 and 52 % , respectively ) . coimplantation of a naltrexone pellet ( 10 mg ) completely reversed the suppressive responses to morphine in each assay . naltrexone alone had no significant effect in any of the assays . the suppressive effects of morphine were less pronounced in adrenalectomized mice in the graft vs. host assay ( 51 % vs. 9 % reduction in morphine-pelleted shams relative to morphine-pelleted adrenalectomized mice ) . these findings indicate the pathophysiologic significance of the previously reported suppression of in vitro correlates of immune function in morphine-pelleted mice . the results further demonstrate that the immunosuppressive effects observed after morphine pellet implantation are naltrexone reversible and suggest that activation of the adrenal is one potential mechanism for this effect . 
otologic disease in aids patients : ct correlation . the contrast-enhanced computed tomographic ( ct ) scans of the temporal bone and brain in 18 patients with otologic disease and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) were retrospectively reviewed . seven scans revealed middle ear and mastoid disease ; three scans were consistent with central nervous system ( cns ) pathology ; and eight scans demonstrated no abnormalities . ct scanning was found useful in localizing otopathology and diagnosing cns toxoplasmosis , aural polyps , osteomyelitis , mastoiditis , and middle ear effusion due to hypertrophic lymphoid tissue . the authors conclude that aids patients with sensorineural hearing loss should undergo contrast-enhanced brain ct scans to rule out cns pathology ; aids status does not alter criteria for ct scanning in patients with conductive hearing loss ; and that images of the nasopharynx should be included on temporal bone ct scans of patients with conductive hearing loss in order to exclude eustachian tube obstruction by hypertrophic lymphoid tissue . 
ocular syphilis . the ability of syphilis to mimic different ocular disorders can lead to misdiagnosis and delay in appropriate antimicrobial therapy . the authors describe their experience over the past 5 years with the ocular manifestations of syphilis in 25 patients who comprised 2.45 % of 1020 new patients . uveitis was the most common ocular manifestation seen . all patients had positive results from fta-abs tests , whereas only 68 % had reactive serum vdrls . two of five patients tested for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) antibody were reactive . the authors recommend routine fta-abs and vdrl screening in patients with uveitis or unexplained ocular inflammation . they also recommend testing for hiv antibody in luetics and aggressive treatment with high-dose aqueous penicillin for syphilis . 
acute syphilitic posterior placoid chorioretinitis . six patients with evidence of secondary syphilis presented with visual loss in both eyes caused by large , placoid , yellowish lesions with faded centers at the level of the pigment epithelium in the macula and juxtapapillary areas . all eyes had vitreitis . all of the lesions showed a similar fluorescein angiographic pattern of early hypofluorescence and late staining . five patients had mucocutaneous lesions typical of secondary syphilis . all five patients treated with antibiotics had prompt improvement in visual function and resolution of the fundus lesions . the ophthalmoscopic and angiographic appearance of these posterior fundus lesions was sufficiently characteristic to suggest a diagnosis of secondary syphilis . modification of the host response to syphilis by human immune deficiency virus ( hiv ) infection may be partly responsible for this peculiar fundus picture . three of the four patients tested positive for hiv . 
toxoplasma gondii retinochoroiditis and optic neuritis in acquired immune deficiency syndrome . report of a case . a 29-year-old man with acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) was found to have a retinochoroiditis and optic neuritis of his left eye . results of fundus examination showed inflammatory and hemorrhagic retinal lesions consistent with retinitis due to cytomegalovirus infection . a computed tomographic ( ct ) scan demonstrated enlargement of the optic nerve . the eye was enucleated and results of histopathologic examination showed retinal necrosis with underlying choroiditis and an optic neuritis . numerous encysted toxoplasma gondii organisms were present in the retina and tachyzoites were present in the optic nerve . to the authors ' knowledge this is the second histologically documented case of toxoplasma optic neuritis in a patient with aids . 
immunoblastic t-cell lymphoma presenting as an eyelid tumor . a 59-year-old white man presented with an ulcerating mass of the left upper eyelid of 6 months ' duration . a biopsy specimen of the tumor was diagnosed as an immunoblastic t-cell malignant lymphoma . the lesion completely regressed after 4000 cgy of cobalt-60 radiation therapy . in the ensuing 33 months , multiple , widespread skin nodules of the same neoplasm developed including a right upper eyelid tumor . to the authors ' knowledge , this is the first reported case of an immunoblastic t-cell lymphoma initially manifesting as an eyelid neoplasm . 
treating systemic fungal infections in aids patients . prolonging life against the odds . fungal infections have become one of the major causes of death among immunocompromised patients , particularly patients with aids . accurate and quick diagnosis is difficult ; therefore , empirical therapy is often necessary . this scenario is complicated by the fact that most antifungal agents are toxic at the doses used or relatively ineffective against deep-seated mycoses . because the population of aids patients is increasing , physicians will be faced more often with the management of systemic fungal infections . despite the current bleak prognosis for these patients , several new antigen detection tests are being developed and triazole agents are proving to be effective and less toxic than their predecessors . many cases of systemic mycoses do result in mortality , but appropriate treatment can both prolong life and improve its quality . 
virologic and immunologic aspects of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . from the initial clinical descriptions of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) in 1981 to the present time , much has been discovered concerning the epidemiologic factors , pathogenesis , treatment and prevention of this disease . recent advances in epidemiology have included a better understanding of the occupational risk of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection after percutaneous exposure ( responsible for approximately 0.4 per cent of instances ) , an appreciation of the potential variability in the time interval between infection and seroconversion ( generally on the order of three months but occasionally longer ) and establishment of the need for intimate contact to transmit infection . following the discovery of hiv-1 as the etiologic agent of aids , many rapid advances have been possible including the development of screening tests , elucidation of the hiv-1 genome and the discovery that the cd4 t lymphocyte is the predominant cell destroyed by hiv-1 . progressive destruction of cd4 t cells results in a progressive decline in immunologic function that may take a variety of clinical forms , ranging from no symptoms to severe opportunistic infections . the delineation of the life cycle of hiv-1 has helped in the development of antiretroviral therapies , including agents that interfere with reverse transcription ( nucleoside analogues , such as zidovudine , dideoxycytidine , dideoxyinosine and azidodideoxyuridine ) and agents that interfere with viral assembly ( protease inhibitors and interferon alpha ) . a more precise understanding of the nature of the immune response elicited after hiv-1 infection has resulted in the development of several candidate hiv-1 vaccines , including recombinant vaccinia viruses expressing the hiv-1 envelope and recombinant envelope proteins . 
lymphoma presenting as a periorbital tumor . lymphoma is a common tumor of the periorbital region . facial radiographs may show a soft tissue mass . radiologic differential diagnosis of orbital masses is difficult . computed tomographic scanning with intravenous contrast medium is useful in diagnosing and staging neoplasms in this area . 
secondary t-cell lymphoproliferation after marrow transplantation . secondary lymphoproliferative syndromes in immunosuppressed patients have been characterized as polyclonal or monoclonal b-lineage disorders nearly always associated with epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) infection . the authors now report three patients with a distinctly different lymphoproliferative syndrome . two patients with common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen ( calla ) ( cd10 ) - positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia and one patient with acute myelogenous leukemia , respectively , received high-dose chemoradiotherapy followed by marrow transplantation from either an hla-identical sibling or hla-mismatched parent . all three patients developed severe graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) , requiring immunosuppressive treatment with corticosteroids . a secondary malignant t-cell lymphoproliferation occurred 2 , 21 , and 43 months , respectively , after marrow transplantation . in all three cases the lymphoid cells expressed t-cell surface antigens and were morphologically and immunophenotypically distinct from the malignant cells present before transplantation . one tumor was of host cell origin , one was probably of donor origin , and the tumor origin in the third case could not be determined . the authors were unable to find any evidence for ebv , human t-cell lymphotropic virus type i or ii , human immunodeficiency virus , or human herpesvirus 6 . 
primary lymphoma of the central nervous system in two children with acquired immune deficiency syndrome . postmortem examination disclosed central nervous system non-hodgkin 's lymphoma in two children who died of acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) at 6 and 14 months of age , respectively . systemic signs of lymphoma were not present . the b-cell origin and clonality of the neoplastic cells were established by immunohistochemistry in one case and by molecular analysis of immunoglobulin gene rearrangement in the other . moreover , in the latter case the neoplastic cells were characterized by the presence of a single episomal ebv genome . according to these data , the monoclonal b-cell proliferation occurred after ebv infection , thus suggesting a possible pathogenetic role of ebv in the early stages of lymphomagenesis . 
angiocentric lymphoma with histologic features of neoplastic angioendotheliomatosis presenting with predominant respiratory and hematologic manifestations . report of a case and review of the literature neoplastic angioendotheliomatosis ( nae ) is a rare fatal disease characterized by widespread intravascular proliferations of neoplastic mononuclear cells . clinically , dermatologic and bizarre neurologic manifestations usually predominate . the origin of the neoplastic cells remains still undetermined . the authors report a patient with nae peculiar with respect to the following points : ( 1 ) the patient predominantly manifested respiratory symptoms and hematologic findings and lacked cutaneous or neurologic manifestations ; and ( 2 ) immunohistochemical and molecular genetic studies showed the b-cell nature of the neoplastic cells , although previous cases with predominant respiratory or hematologic manifestations were reported to be of endothelial origin . despite the rarity , this type of nae or angiocentric lymphoma should be recognized because it is easily confused with other disorders , particularly vasculitis or thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura . 
lymphangiomyomatosis -- newer concepts in pathogenesis and management -- case reports . lymphangiomyomatosis was first reported more than forty years ago . although its incidence is rare , its occurrence is being increasingly recognized and has been the subject of a growing number of cases reports in recent years . this study adds 2 more cases to the file . both cases involved young women with the characteristic symptoms of dyspnea , cough , abdominal discomfort and swelling , chest pain , and hemoptysis , with abundant formation of refractory chylous , serous ascites . although the progression of the disease differed in each case , pulmonary function was affected in a similar way by the presence of obstructive and restrictive defects and a decrease in diffusing capacity . underlying abnormalities were dilated lymphatics , thickened lymphatic walls , and muscular proliferation of leiomyomatous origin , leading to bronchial restriction . the authors point to the subtlety required in arriving at a differentiated diagnosis of lymphangiomyomatosis lymphangioleiomyomatosis and the difference between the two conditions . they also make particular recommendations in respect to the importance of preliminary hormone receptor tests and to the wisdom to be exercised in ligating a main lymphatic duct in the chest to control the formation of ascites . pneumothorax , a frequent manifestation of lymphangiomyomatosis , is found to be the result of chronic air trapping due to a combination of narrowing of conducting airways and disruption of normal lung parenchyma . 
masqueraders in clinical allergy : laryngeal dysfunction causing dyspnea [ published erratum appears in ann allergy 1991 jan ; 66 ( 1 ) :22 ] the allergist may be called upon to evaluate patients with dyspnea that is labeled " refractory asthma . " in some patients , the site of origin of their dyspnea is the larynx . the diagnosis of laryngeal disorders requires a thorough understanding of the normal function of the laryngeal anatomy and physiology . some patients with asthma may have a component of their airway obstruction in the larynx and large airways . paradoxical vocal cord motion occurs when the true vocal cords approximate during inspiration , and although severe subjective dyspnea may occur , in most cases there is no evidence of hypoxia , hemoglobin desaturation , or an abnormality of the arterial-alveolar oxygen gradient . provocative tests with methacholine are negative in this group of patients . patients with pvcm are usually female and may have an affiliation with the medical profession . many have psychologic difficulties , and the foundation of treatment is speech therapy and psychotherapy if indicated . other disorders that may produce dyspnea from laryngeal dysfunction include meige syndrome , abductor spastic dysphonia , and laryngospasm . recognition of these disorders will expedite timely , accurate diagnosis and treatment . 
silk-induced asthma in children : a report of 64 cases . a total of 64 children less than 15 years of age with asthma caused by silk were studied . the diagnosis was based on a history of wheezing , positive skin tests to silk , positive conjunctival or nasal provocation tests , or serum ige-sw ( silk waste ) . the average age of onset was 4 years 2 months . sex ratio ( m : f ) was 3.6:1 . a positive skin test is essential for the diagnosis . conjunctival provocation tests were performed in 80 % of cases because of reliability , safety , and convenience . the first symptom appeared an average of 10 months after initial exposure to silk . in 61 % of patients , asthma was accompanied by allergic rhinitis but in only 14 % of cases by conjunctivitis . in most cases , asthma occurred in winter , due to seasonal use of bed quilts or clothes filled with silk . silk is a highly potent allergen . the average mean wheal diameter elicited by silk in prick testing was larger than two histamine equivalent prick tests . a cross reactivity exists among mulberry silk , and silkworm cocoons , batryticated silkworms , and silkworm chrysalis . 
low level atmospheric sulfur dioxide pollution and childhood asthma . quarterly analysis ( 1983-1987 ) of childhood asthma in hong kong from 13,620 hospitalization episodes in relation to levels of pollutants ( so2 , no2 , no , o3 , tsp , and rsp ) revealed a seasonal pattern of attack rates that correlates inversely with exposure to sulfur dioxide ( r = -.52 , p less than .05 ) . the same can not be found with other pollutants . many factors may contribute to the seasonal variation of asthma attacks . we speculate that prolonged exposure ( in terms of months ) to low level so2 is one factor that might induce airway inflammation and bronchial hyperreactivity and predispose to episodes of asthma . 
a random double-blind trial of the combination of nebulized atropine methylnitrate and albuterol in nocturnal asthma . the combination of nebulized atropine methylnitrate ( amn ) and a beta-agonist has been shown to produce greater and longer lasting bronchodilation than either drug alone . we examined the efficacy of the combination in diminishing the " morning dipping " in pefr in eight hospitalized but stable asthmatics . the patients received nebulized albuterol along with either amn ( amn + alb ) or placebo ( alb ) in a random double-blind cross-over fashion at 10 pm on four nights . pefr and fev1 were recorded at 6 pm , 10 pm , and 6 am before the administration of bronchodilators . there was no statistically significant difference between alb and amn + alb in reducing the morning dipping in these patients . 
effect of procaterol on arterial blood gas in asthmatic children . we determined changes in arterial blood gas after the inhalation of procaterol , a highly beta 2-selective and long-acting adrenergic agonist , in 11 asthmatic children . seven of the patients , with a maximum fall of 14 mmhg ( 63.6 % ) , showed a decrease in pao2 ( mean + / - sd = -7.1 + / - 4.0 mmhg ) and had poorer pulmonary function with a lower initial pao2 than four subjects who had an increase in pao2 after inhalation . there was a statistically significant correlation between values of the pao2 before and after inhalation ( p less than .05 ) . 
evaluation of ketotifen in corticosteroid-dependent idiopathic anaphylaxis . to study the possible efficacy of ketotifen ( k ) in the treatment of idiopathic anaphylaxis ( ia ) , k was administered in an open-label trial to six patients with ia who required corticosteroids at doses below which their disease could not be controlled . during the study , patients continued to receive noncorticosteroid medications ( eg , antihistamines , oral adrenergic agents ) that had been used on a regular basis for treatment of ia before study , but periodic attempts to reduce corticosteroid doses were made . a reduction of prednisone dose with continued control of disease was judged to be evidence for a beneficial effect of k. after 7 to 16 months of k administration , three patients were judged to have had probable benefits from k ( reductions in alternate day prednisone dose requirement from 40 mg to none , 35 mg to 15 mg , and 30 mg to none ) , and one patient had a possible benefit from k ( dose reduction from 100 to 120 mg to 77 mg ) . two other patients were unable to tolerate major decreases in prednisone without developing symptoms or signs of ia . within the limitations of this study design , we conclude that k may be efficacious in the treatment of some patients with ia , and that further trials of k in the treatment of ia are indicated . 
type i hypersensitivity to rubber . seven patients with type i hypersensitivity reactions to rubber are reported . radioallergosorbent testing with crude latex antigen was positive in 6/7 patients . five patients had coexisting spina bifida , and all had undergone surgery before the development of rubber allergy . rubber allergy is a new phenomenon that should be in the differential diagnosis of idiopathic anaphylaxis and urticaria . 
anaphylaxis to grand keyhole limpet ( abalone-like shellfish ) and abalone . we report five patients who developed moderate to severe anaphylactic reactions induced by the ingestion of grand keyhole limpet ( gkl ) and abalone . specific ige-mediated hypersensitivity to these shellfish was demonstrated by history , prick skin test , and rast . rast inhibition technique revealed the cross-antigenicity between gkl , abalone , and keyhole limpet hemocyanin . 
diagnosis of mold allergy by rast and skin prick testing . sera from 33 patients with mold allergy proven by bronchial provocation were analyzed for specific ige against six mold species comparing an improved phadebas rast with four other techniques . the new method was more sensitive and gave significantly higher ige antibody concentrations for all tested molds except cladosporium herbarum . 
lymphomatoid granulomatosis presenting as ulcerodestructive gastrointestinal tract lesions in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection . a new association . we describe cases of severe odynophagia , extensive oral ulcerations , and bowel perforation in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection that were caused by lymphomatoid granulomatosis . such presentations in human immunodeficiency virus-infected individuals are usually ascribed to other causes and may be incorrectly treated on an empiric basis . in addition , deep tissue specimens obtained at the margin of ulcerative lesions are often necessary for definitive diagnosis . we review our limited treatment experience with zidovudine , interferon alfa , and h2 blockers in our patients . based on the markedly increased frequency in which lymphomatoid granulomatosis is being diagnosed at our institution in the post-human immunodeficiency virus era , we postulated an association between these two entities . 
intrahepatic cholestasis due to hypersensitivity reaction to procainamide . hypersensitivity reactions to procainamide involving liver dysfunction are rare . we describe a patient who developed liver dysfunction after procainamide administration , manifested by fever , jaundice , elevated bilirubin concentration , and alkaline phosphatase concentration . hepatobiliary scintigraphy demonstrated good hepatic uptake of the radionuclide without movement from hepatic parenchyma . to our knowledge , this is the first reported case of procainamide-induced intrahepatic cholestasis as demonstrated by radionuclide hepatobiliary scintigraphy . 
vitreous amyloidosis associated with homozygosity for the transthyretin methionine-30 gene . familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy is an autosomal dominant inherited disorder . biochemical studies have revealed that the amyloid protein in familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy of japanese , swedish , and portuguese origin mainly consists of a variant transthyretin with one amino acid substitution of methionine for valine at position 30 , termed ttr met-30 . in five swedish patients with familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy we diagnosed homozygosity for the ttr met-30 gene using restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis . the homozygous individuals did not show more severe systemic symptoms or earlier onset than heterozygotes for the ttr met-30 gene . the only clinical difference was the presence of vitreous opacities in all homozygous patients . 
hereditary cerebral haemorrhage with amyloidosis -- dutch type . magnetic resonance imaging findings in 7 cases . the clinical history and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) findings are presented of 7 patients with hereditary cerebral haemorrhage with amyloidosis -- dutch type ( hchwa-d ) . the diagnosis was based on clinical and genealogical data , was confirmed in 3 patients at autopsy and in 2 others by biopsy . focal neurological signs , and at least some degree of global cognitive deterioration , were observed in all patients , with unequivocal dementia in 4 . mri showed haemorrhages and areas of gliosis and , to a variable extent , hyperintensity of the white matter in t2-weighted images . neuropathological examination revealed a large recent haemorrhage together with residual lesions from previous haemorrhages or infarcts in all patients examined . the white matter lesions , present on mri , turned out to be areas of ' incomplete infarction ' with demyelination . it is concluded that ( hereditary ) amyloid angiopathy can lead to strokes , but also to subcortical ischaemic encephalopathy . amyloid angiopathy should therefore be considered in the differential diagnosis of white matter lesions , found on ct or mri , especially when patients present with a cerebral haemorrhage . the relationship between hchwa-d and alzheimer 's disease , another disease with cerebral amyloid deposition and diffuse white matter involvement , is discussed . 
a study of immunoglobulin g in the cerebrospinal fluid of 1007 patients with suspected neurological disease using isoelectric focusing and the log igg-index . a comparison and diagnostic applications . cerebrospinal fluid and serum immunoglobulin g from 1007 patients with suspected neurological disease were analysed by 2 methods : isoelectric focusing for the detection of oligoclonal banding , and quantitative measurement of igg and albumin for the formulation of a log igg-index . a comparison of the 2 methods in the detection of local synthesis of igg showed that isoelectric focusing not only gave a much higher yield overall , with 282 patients showing local synthesis versus 225 for the log igg-index , but also a higher specificity , with a false positive rate of 0 % versus 3.5 % . in addition , of the 282 patients positive by isoelectric focusing only 163 ( 58 % ) were positive by the log igg-index . of the 1007 patients studied , 206 had multiple sclerosis ( ms ) , and isoelectric focusing showed local synthesis in 95 % of clinically definite cases , with a 90 % detection rate overall . the log igg-index was positive in only 67 % of clinically definite cases , with an overall 59 % detection rate . thus with the exceptions noted above , local synthesis of igg as defined by isoelectric focusing is confined to demyelinating , inflammatory , infectious and postinfectious disorders . our results compare very favourably with the published sensitivities of magnetic resonance imaging in the detection of abnormalities in multiple sclerosis , and better than those for evoked potentials . where both these investigations are readily available isoelectric focusing provides a useful adjunct . for the majority of physicians and neurologists who do not have ready access to magnetic resonance imaging , isoelectric focusing is an excellent alternative . we would also recommend that it become the standard for the measurement of igg abnormalities in the cerebrospinal fluid and that the use of quantitative data be abandoned for routine purposes . 
breakdown of the blood-brain barrier precedes symptoms and other mri signs of new lesions in multiple sclerosis . pathogenetic and clinical implications . from an extensive serial magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) study in multiple sclerosis ( ms ) we have identified 4 cases in which disruption of the blood-brain barrier , as detected by gadolinium-dtpa enhancement , preceded other mri abnormalities and in 1 case clinical evidence of the new lesion . this supports the view that a defect in the blood-brain barrier , and therefore inflammation , is an early and possibly crucial event in the pathogenesis of the new lesion in ms. these cases showed a marked discrepancy between mri abnormality and symptoms . the mechanisms contributing to this disparity are discussed , and it is concluded that far from being surprising it is to be expected . 
transfusion-induced graft-versus-host disease in patients with malignant lymphoma . a case report and review of the literature . a case of transfusion-induced graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) occurring in a 31-year-old female with hodgkin 's disease in complete remission is reported . clinical features are similar to 19 other reported cases of transfusion-induced gvhd associated with malignant lymphoma . the lack of relationship with underlying histology or disease stage and the nearly uniformly fatal outcome underscores the importance of prophylactic irradiation of blood products given to patients with malignant lymphoma undergoing therapy . 
angiocentric immunoproliferative lesion/t-cell non-hodgkin 's lymphoma and the acquired immune deficiency syndrome : a case report and review of the literature . the lesions known as lymphocytic vasculitis , polymorphic reticulosis ( midline malignant reticulosis , lethal midline granuloma ) , lymphomatoid granulomatosis , and angiocentric lymphoma form what have been collectively termed the angiocentric immunoproliferative lesions ( ail ) . because of recent reports demonstrating clonal rearrangements of the t-cell receptor in these lesions , the ail are now thought to represent a continuous spectrum of post-thymic t-cell non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( nhl ) . nhl associated with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) represents intermediate or high-grade b-cell malignancies in hiv-infected patients that may be etiologically related to the epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) . there have been reports of ebv-associated t-cell nhl , ail , and large granular lymphocyte ( lgl ) proliferations , as well as hiv-associated t-cell neoplasia , lgl/t-cell proliferations , and ail . we describe a case of polymorphic reticulosis ( lethal midline granuloma ) arising in an hiv-infected individual , who later progressed to aids , and review the literature on hiv-associated and ebv-associated t-cell neoplasia , lgl/t-cell proliferations , and ail . the etiology of this ail/t-cell nhl , especially in relation to ebv and hiv , is discussed . 
splenic rupture in a human immunodeficiency virus-infected patient with primary splenic lymphoma . splenic rupture presenting as primary malignant lymphoma of the spleen is a rare event . we report such an occurrence in a young man who had a primary b-cell immunoblastic lymphoma of the spleen and was found to be hiv-positive . we suggest that serologic tests for hiv should be performed in unusual cases of malignant lymphoma . 
disseminated strongyloidiasis with central nervous system involvement diagnosed antemortem in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and burkitts lymphoma . a 45-year-old man presented with central nervous system involvement as the initial manifestation of disseminated infection with strongyloides stercoralis . several concurrent clinical factors contributed to this event , all related to the patient 's immunosuppression , including high-grade lymphoma , corticosteroid therapy , and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . this is only the third case of cns involvement in disseminated strongyloidiasis diagnosed antemortem . 
risks of human immunodeficiency virus infection to patients and healthcare personnel . the risk of nosocomial human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection among hospitalized patients comes almost exclusively from transfusion of fresh blood products . current estimates of the risk of hiv infection from the transfusion of blood or components vary from 1/40 ,000 to 1/250 ,000 ( 0.0025 % to 0.0004 % ) , with the most probable likelihood estimated to be 1/153 ,000 ( 0.0007 % ) . the major route of transmitting such hiv infection is via blood collected during the interval between infection of the donor and development of a detectable circulating antibody level to the aids virus ( i.e. , the " window period " ) . the current risk to hemophiliacs receiving treated coagulation factor concentrates is negligible . the risk to healthcare personnel of acquiring hiv infection from accidental puncture wounds and from handling hiv-infected blood or body fluids is 0.42 % per episode . most reported seroconversions have resulted from penetrating injuries with sharp objects contaminated with hiv-positive blood . the degree of risk to healthcare workers will vary with the community , the patient population served , and the frequency of penetrating injuries . 
cardiac involvement in aids . cardiac involvement in aids may occur at any stage of hiv disease and may manifest as congestive cardiomyopathy , potentially lethal arrhythmia , or pericardial effusion and tamponade . the heart may be affected by nearly all of the opportunistic infections and many of the malignancies associated with the syndrome . although often clinically unobtrusive , cardiac lesions may be important in the pathogenesis of significant clinical symptoms and play an often unrecognized role in the prognosis and natural history of aids . 
inhaled albuterol and oral prednisone therapy in hospitalized adult asthmatics . does aminophylline add any benefit ? study objective : to determine the efficacy of intravenous aminophylline in the treatment of adult patients hospitalized for exacerbation of asthma . design : randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial throughout the study . setting : university hospital clinical research center . patients : forty-four patients admitted from the emergency room with a primary diagnosis asthma ; 39 patients completed the study . interventions : patients received either intravenous aminophylline or placebo in addition to frequent nebulized albuterol ; prednisone 0.5 mg/kg body weight every 6 h orally ; and supplemental oxygen . aminophylline infusion rates were adjusted to achieve serum theophylline concentrations of 10 to 20 micrograms/ml . changes were made in placebo infusion rates to maintain the double blind design . measurements and results : forced expiratory volume in 1 s ( fev1 ) and other spirometric measurements every 8 h by a blinded investigator or trained respiratory therapist . subjective patient response and duration of hospitalization were compared . no difference in spirometric measurements was observed between the two groups at any time point . on admission to the study , fev1 in the placebo group was 41.5 ( + / - 2.9 ) percent predicted and in the aminophylline group 34.7 ( + / - 2.3 ) percent predicted ( p = 0.08 ) . at discharge , fev1 was 70.4 ( + / - 2.9 ) percent predicted in the placebo group and 63.7 ( + / - 2.8 ) percent predicted in the theophylline group ( p = 0.10 ) . there was no difference in subjective patient rating or duration of hospitalization between the two groups ( placebo 1.95 days and aminophylline 1.78 days , p = 0.51 ) . conclusions : our results suggest that aminophylline therapy does not add significant benefit to other standard therapies in hospitalized adult asthmatic patients . because of the risks and cost of aminophylline treatment in the hospital setting , further research is needed to determine if there are subgroups of adult asthmatics who may benefit from the addition of aminophylline to other standard optimal therapies . 
diagnostic value of maximal exercise tidal volume . though breathing pattern is frequently analyzed during clinical exercise testing , there is little information regarding its usefulness in the differential diagnosis of impaired exercise tolerance . this study tested the hypothesis that differences in peak tidal volume during exercise between patients with different cardiorespiratory diseases are related largely to differences in severity of respiratory mechanical impairment ( vital capacity ) , not to differences in disease state . patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , restrictive lung disease , bronchial asthma , and heart disease ( mitral valve disease or left ventricular dysfunction ) were studied . subjects selected had one and only one of the above diagnoses . all subjects performed maximal ( symptom-limited ) incremental exercise on a cycle ergometer . multiple linear regression of all subjects ( n = 30 ) in all four groups showed a significant correlation between vtmax and vc : vtmax = 0.55 , vc -0.09 l ( r = 0.827 , p less than 0.0001 ) . the vtmax/vc ( x 100 ) was ( mean + / - sd ) 44 + / - 15 , 54 + / - 11 , 56 + / - 11 , and 54 + / - 12 for the copd , rld , ba and hd patients respectively . there was no significant difference between any of the groups . we concluded that differences in vtmax between different patients are related largely to differences in vc ( ie , differences in severity of respiratory mechanical impairment ) , not to differences in disease state . measurement of vtmax or the vtmax/vc ratio has little value in the differential diagnosis of exertional dyspnea . 
predicting the need for hospitalization in children with acute asthma . in an attempt to identify factors which influence the decision of physicians to admit patients with acute asthma to the hospital , we studied prospectively 200 children ( age 5.6 + / - 3.1 years , mean + / - sd ) presenting to our emergency room with acute asthma . the children were assessed on arrival , and on disposition from the emergency room by one of the investigators . after obtaining historic data , a clinical score was assigned , and oxygen saturation and pulmonary function were measured . of the 134 ( 67 percent ) children who were discharged home from the emergency room , five returned within seven days and one was subsequently admitted . the clinical score on disposition was the sole variable found to best predict the decision for hospitalization ( sensitivity 73 percent , specificity 95 percent ) . of the variables obtained at presentation , the resulting decision tree found the clinical score to predict the decision for hospitalization ( sensitivity 79 percent , specificity 75 percent ) . when the individual components of the clinical score were analyzed , the degree of dyspnea , as assessed by the investigator , was chosen as the rule to predict the hospitalization decision ( sensitivity 88 percent , specificity 71 percent ) . we conclude that the decision with respect to the need for hospitalization in acute childhood asthma , is in practice based mainly on careful clinical evaluation . pulmonary function and sao2 measurements , although helpful adjuncts in the assessment of acute asthma , do not appear to contribute to the identification of patients who need hospital admission . 
atypical presentations of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients receiving inhaled pentamidine prophylaxis . inhaled pentamidine is used commonly to prevent pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) in patients with advanced human immunodeficiency virus infection . case reports indicate that pcp can recur in patients who receive inhaled pentamidine and that clinical features may be atypical . to determine the magnitude of this problem , we reviewed retrospectively the medical records of patients with proven pcp during a 30-month period at two hospitals . four ( 31 percent ) of 13 patients with previous pcp who received inhaled pentamidine prophylaxis had recurrent p carinii infection , including one patient with widely metastatic extrapulmonary disease . chest roentgenographic findings included cavities , pneumothoraces , bilateral and upper lobe interstitial infiltrates , and pleural effusion . false-negative bronchoalveolar lavage and induced sputum examinations were frequent . we conclude that recurrent pcp in patients maintained on a regimen of inhaled pentamidine prophylaxis occurs frequently , causes chest roentgenographic abnormalities other than interstitial infiltrates , and may be difficult to diagnose . clinicians who choose to use this effective and convenient mode of prophylaxis should be aware of the problems attendant to its use . 
clinical dysautonomia in patients with bronchial asthma . study with seven autonomic function tests . fifty asthmatic patients and 20 healthy control subjects , carefully age - and sex-matched , were subjected to seven standardized tests to evaluate their autonomic status . due care was taken to remove factors which could interfere with results . of the tests concerned with the parasympathetic system , the intravenous atropine test ( p greater than 0.10 ) and heart rate response to standing ( p greater than 0.01 ) which measured the basal parasympathetic tone , did not show a significant difference . tests requiring stimulation of the parasympathetic system , ie , deep breathing test ( p less than 0.001 ) , valsalva maneuver ( p less than 0.001 ) , and carotid sinus massage ( p less than 0.001 ) showed significantly heightened response . postural fall of blood pressure ( p greater than 0.10 ) and sustained hand grip test ( p greater than 0.10 ) , chiefly concerned with the sympathetic system , did not show a significant difference . of the 50 asthmatic patients , nine were atopic and 41 nonatopic . when the results were compared in the two groups separately , we found that there was no alteration in the measurements except the intravenous atropine test which showed heightened response with atopic subjects ( p less than 0.05 ) . these results suggest that hyperresponsiveness of the parasympathetic system is an important factor in producing bronchial spasm in asthmatic patients , and atopic and nonatopic subjects do not differ much in their autonomic status . 
effect of inhaled methacholine on inspiratory flow . one hundred consecutive outpatients with symptoms suggestive of asthma who came to the pulmonary function laboratory for a methacholine challenge test were studied . in addition to the forced expiratory maneuvers , forced inspiratory maneuvers were performed before and after the maximal response to methacholine . in 24 patients , the methacholine challenge suggested that they had asthma ( forced expiratory volume in 1 s [ fev1 ] decrease greater than or equal to 20 percent ) . six of these 24 patients also had a decrease in maximal forced inspiratory flow ( fifmax ) greater than or equal to 20 percent and nine had a decrease in forced inspiratory flow at 50 percent of vital capacity ( fif50 ) greater than or equal to 20 percent , suggesting that bronchoconstriction can cause decreased inspiratory as well as expiratory flows . in 76 patients , the methacholine challenges were " negative " ( fev1 decrease less than or equal to 20 percent ) , suggesting that they did not have asthma . nevertheless , in 11 of these 76 patients the fifmax decrease was greater than or equal to 20 percent , and in 14 patients the fif50 decrease was greater than or equal to 20 percent , suggesting that intermittent central airway obstruction is responsible for these patients ' symptoms . 
pathologic dependence of oxygen consumption on oxygen delivery in acute respiratory failure secondary to aids-related pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . oxygen consumption is pathologically dependent on oxygen delivery in ards and sepsis . we asked whether oxygen consumption is dependent on oxygen delivery in severe acute respiratory failure secondary to aids-related pcp . in five patients who had aids-related pcp , diffuse bilateral pulmonary infiltrates , no evidence of bacterial infection , and acute respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation with arterial oxygen tensions less than 75 mm hg while breathing at least 50 percent oxygen , and peep greater than 10 cm h2o , we determined oxygen delivery and consumption by calculation from thermodilution cardiac output and arterial and mixed venous oxygen contents . oxygen delivery was increased using transfusion of two units of packed red blood cells over one hour . oxygen delivery increased 22 percent ( 638 + / - 204 to 778 + / - 201 ml/min . m2 , p less than or equal to 0.006 ) . oxygen consumption increased 11 percent ( 134 + / - 34 to 149 + / - 29 ml/min . m2 , p less than or equal to 0.02 ) . the oxygen extraction ratio did not change . we conclude that similar to ards and sepsis , oxygen consumption may be pathologically dependent on oxygen delivery in patients who have severe acute respiratory failure secondary to aids-related pcp . 
pneumothorax following cytotoxic chemotherapy in malignant lymphoma . pneumothorax occurring as a complication of the antitumor effect of cytotoxic chemotherapy has been reported in occasional cases of a variety of tumors . its occurrence in malignant lymphoma has not been reported heretofore . in this report , we describe two cases of this complication in patients with malignant lymphoma and discuss the possible pathophysiologic mechanisms involved . because pulmonary involvement with the tumor was found in both cases , pneumothorax could be attributed to the anti-tumor effect of cytotoxic agents on underlying lung involvement in patients with malignant lymphoma . 
rapid oral desensitization to isoniazid and rifampin . a 45-year-old black woman , sputum positive for acid-fast bacilli , developed hypersensitivity to both isoniazid and rifampin . she was admitted to the hospital and desensitized to both medications using modified penicillin protocols . skin testing was negative to both drugs . desensitization to isoniazid was complicated by a drug fever that was controlled by prednisone . the patient was able to maintain once-a-day dosing without incident even with steroid taper . to our knowledge , this is the first reported case of dual isoniazid and rifampin hypersensitivity with rapid oral desensitization . 
permanent venous access via subcutaneous infusion port in severe asthma . a subcutaneous infusion port was implanted in a 34-year-old patient with frequent and severe asthma attacks to ensure prompt and reliable venous access . difficulties with peripheral venous access were possible cofactors necessitating mechanical ventilation on two occasions before this implantation . the method described is simple and seems useful for asthmatics in need of frequent parenteral medication . 
insulin-mimicking anti-idiotypic antibodies in development of spontaneous autoimmune diabetes in bb/e rats . bb/e rats spontaneously develop a form of autoimmune diabetes resembling insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) in humans . iddm results from central destruction of the insulin-producing beta-cells of the pancreatic islets . herein , we report that the outbreak of iddm in bb/e rats is preceded by the spontaneous development of an anti-idiotypic antibody to a particular antibody to insulin made by the rats . this anti-idiotype , designated anti-dm-id , behaves as an antibody to the insulin-hormone receptor . thus , a spontaneous anti-idiotypic antibody network whose products can affect the peripheral utilization of insulin seems to accompany the central destruction of beta-cells in developing iddm . 
light microscopic diagnosis of human microsporidiosis and variable response to octreotide . microsporida are protozoan parasites that have recently been identified as a cause of human disease in immunocompromised patients . because of their small size , they have been recognized primarily by electron microscopy . this has limited the study of their prevalence , incidence , and association with large-volume diarrhea . the present report describes two cases of enterocytozoon bieneusi infection of the small intestine in patients with intractable diarrhea in whom the diagnosis was made by light microscopy and confirmed by electron microscopy . both patients were treated with octreotide , and one had a good response . 
late pulmonary allergic responses in actively but not passively ige-sensitized rats . previous studies suggested that although rats that were passively sensitized [ monoclonal murine immunoglobulin e ( ige ) ] would respond to pulmonary antigen challenge with an immediate increase in resistance , they exhibited no late increases in resistance , unlike late changes in rats actively sensitized to preferentially produce ige antibody . we hypothesized that passively sensitized rats also would not develop antigen-induced pulmonary inflammation . in a blinded protocol we compared immediate responses and pulmonary resistance and inflammation at 8 , 19 and 24 h after challenge with placebo antigen , with dinitrophenol-bovine serum albumin ( dnp-bsa ) to elicit a passively sensitized response , or with ovalbumin ( oa ) to elicit an actively sensitized response . despite similar immediate responses to oa and dnp-bsa , only the rats challenged with oa had marked inflammatory changes and a significant incidence of late elevations in resistance . inflammation scores and lung resistance were significantly correlated only in the oa group . we also observed that anesthesia with fentanyl/droperidol significantly attenuated the immediate but not the late responses to antigen challenge , compared with rats anesthetized with ketamine . we conclude that ige-mediated immediate responses to pulmonary antigen challenge are insufficient , and may be unnecessary , to initiate antigen-induced late inflammatory changes . 
tachyphylaxis to inhaled methacholine in normal but not asthmatic subjects . methacholine inhalation tests measure airway responsiveness in asthmatic and normal subjects . tachyphylaxis occurs with repeated methacholine inhalations in normal subjects . the purpose of this study was to examine the time course and mechanisms of methacholine tachyphylaxis in normal subjects and to determine whether this occurs in mildly asthmatic subjects . fifteen normal and nine asthmatic subjects were studied on 2 study days , at least 48 h apart . each day , two inhalation tests were carried out . on one day , subjects performed two methacholine inhalation tests 3 h later by a methacholine test . results were expressed as the provocation concentration causing a 20 % fall in forced expiratory volume in 1 s ( fev1 ) , ( pc20 ) . all normal subjects developed methacholine tachyphylaxis . the mean pc20 increased from 47.3 mg/ml ( % se 1.34 ) to 115.6 ( % se 1.51 ) ( p less than 0.0001 ) in a 3-h interval . this increase lasted for greater than or equal to 6 h ( p = 0.012 ) . asthmatic subjects did not develop methacholine tachyphylaxis . their mean methacholine pc20s were 1.6 mg/ml ( % se 1.4 ) and 1.5 ( % se 1.4 ) ( p = 0.75 ) 3 h later . in two other series of experiments , normal subjects were pretreated with the cyclooxygenase inhibitors indomethacin ( 100 mg/day ) or flurbiprofen ( 150 mg/day ) or a placebo for 3 days before two methacholine tests 3 h apart . both indomethacin and flurbiprofen significantly inhibited the development of methacholine tachyphylaxis . these results confirm that methacholine tachyphylaxis occurs in normal subjects , lasts greater than or equal to 6 h , and may occur through the release of inhibitory prostaglandins . by contrast , methacholine tachyphylaxis does not occur in asthmatic subjects . 
effect of thromboxane antagonists on ozone-induced airway responses in dogs . airway hyperresponsiveness after inhaled ozone in dogs may occur as a result of thromboxane release in the airway . in this study , two thromboxane receptor antagonists , l-655 ,240 and l-670 ,596 , were used in doses that inhibit the response to an inhaled thromboxane mimetic , u-46619 , to determine further the role of thromboxane in ozone-induced airway hyperresponsiveness . dogs were studied on 2 days separated by 1 wk . on each day , the dogs inhaled ozone ( 3 ppm ) for 30 min . on one randomly assigned day , 10 dogs received an infusion of l-655 ,240 ( 5 mg.kg-1 . h-1 ) and 5 dogs received an infusion of l-670 ,596 ( 1 mg.kg-1 . h-1 ) ; on the other day dogs received a control infusion . airway responses to doubling doses of acetylcholine were measured before and after inhalation of ozone and were expressed as the concentration of acetylcholine giving a rise in resistance of 5 cmh2o.l-1 . s from baseline ( acetylcholine provocation concentration ) . the development of airway hyperresponsiveness after ozone was not inhibited by the thromboxane antagonists . the mean log difference in the acetylcholine provocative concentration before and after ozone on the l-655 ,240 treatment day was 0.62 + / - 0.12 ( se ) and on the control day was 0.71 + / - 0.12 ( p = 0.48 ) ; on the l-670 ,596 treatment day the mean log difference was 0.68 + / - 0.15 ( se ) and on the control day it was 0.75 + / - 0.19 ( p = 0.45 ) . these results do not support an important role for thromboxane in causing ozone-induced airway hyperresponsiveness . 
serologic , biologic , and western blot analysis of a t suppressor factor with specificity for the hapten 4-hydroxy-3-nitrophenyl acetyl derived from serum-free medium . a t cell hybridoma producing a t suppressor factor ( tsf ) with specificity for the hapten nitrophenyl was converted to long term growth in serum-free medium and its product tested by serology , bioactivity , and western blot analysis . results indicated that ag-specific suppressive activity was present in serum-free medium and this tsf could exhibit the characteristics ascribed to it by various groups : it could bind nominal ag with specificity , it was bound by anti-tsf mab , and it could mediate ag-specific suppression both in vivo and in vitro . western blot and sds-page analysis of this purified tsf revealed a 43-kda single chain protein . 
epitope mapping of human thyroglobulin . heterogeneous recognition by thyroid pathologic sera . thyroglobulin is the major ag of the thyroid gland involved in autoimmune pathologies . epitope mapping was carried out with a rabbit polyclonal immune serum against fusion proteins expressed in prokaryotic cells . after screening of an initial human thyroglobulin cdna library and subcloning of immunoreactive clones , seven epitopes were characterized and localized on the human thyroglobulin monomeric molecule . one was close to each extremity of the molecule , and five others were concentrated in the middle , covering a sixth of this 2748-amino-acid chain . the immunoreactivities of 18 autoimmune sera from different thyroid pathologies were tested against the seven previously characterized epitopes . those from hashimoto 's thyroiditis were the most immunoreactive . immune responses were heterogeneous for sera from different pathologies as well as for those from the same pathology . the central epitopes and the near-c-terminal epitope , however , were the epitopes most often recognized by the immune sera . these findings show that some autoepitopes overlap accurately with some heteroepitopes characterized by a polyclonal immune serum directed against the mature protein . 
igg antibodies from patients with bullous pemphigoid bind to localized epitopes on synthetic peptides encoded by bullous pemphigoid antigen cdna . bullous pemphigoid ( bp ) is an autoimmune blistering disease characterized in part by the presence of tissue-bound and circulating antibodies specific for basement membrane zone proteins , the bp ag . the purpose of the present study was to determine seroreactivity of patients with bp to six nonoverlapping synthetic peptides representing sequences in the carboxyl domain of the recently cloned 230-kda bp ag . sera from 40 patients with bp , 57 normal subjects , and 18 patients with other autoimmune blistering skin diseases were examined in an elisa for binding to six synthetic peptides varying between 17 and 19 amino acids in length . the binding of igg from patients with bp to three synthetic peptides , p1-2 , p1-1 , and p3-1 , was significantly different from that seen in the normal controls ( p less than 0.001 , fisher 's exact test ) . affinity-purified anti-p1-2 antibody from a patient with bp bound in a characteristic linear band to the epidermal side of 1 m nacl split skin and immunoprecipitated the native 230-kda bp ag . serum igg antibodies from a rabbit immunized with a bp fusion protein that contains the sequences for p1-1 and p1-2 , bound on elisa to p1-2 but not to p1-1 . these data suggest that multiple epitopes on the 230-kda bp ag are recognized by circulating autoantibodies in patients with this disease , and that an epitope encoded within the synthetic peptide p1-2 is expressed on the native molecule and may be relevant in the generation of an immune response both in man and in an animal model . 
recognition of a b cell lymphoma by anti-idiotypic t cells . idiotypic igm derived from a b cell lymphoma can act as a tumor-associated ag , in that immunization with this purified protein generates an anti-idiotypic immune response that specifically suppresses tumor development . spleens of immune mice contain t cells that proliferate in response to idiotypic igm . however , idiotypic ag is presented to the t cells most efficiently in its natural form at the surface of the lymphoma cells , than as soluble igm plus presenting cells . variant tumors that display either little or no idiotypic igm at the cell surface , but which are otherwise indistinguishable from parental tumor , induce a weak response or fail to stimulate the t cells , respectively . anti-idiotypic lines and clones have been derived from the splenic t cells by growth in the presence of irradiated tumor cells . phenotypic analysis revealed that cells from both lines and clones express cd3 and cd4 ag , but not cd8 . recognition of tumor id , which required no added presenting cells , was inhibited by antibody against mhc class ii ag , and variably by anti-cd4 . proliferative responses were inhibited by anti-idiotypic antibodies , but also by antibodies against the constant region of the mu h chain , indicating that perturbation of the surface igm abrogates availability of idiotypic determinants to the t cells . 
chronic sinusitis and the yellow nail syndrome . diagnosing syndromes that include chronic sinusitis can expedite the management of both conditions . yellow nail syndrome is usually described as the combination of yellow nails , lymphoedema and often respiratory manifestations such as chronic sinusitis , bronchiectasis and pleural effusions . the pathology responsible for the syndrome is believed to be lymphatic hypoplasia . diagnosis of yellow nail syndrome is clinical not requiring any specialized tests . in the two cases described , the respiratory tract manifestations required the most active investigation and management . the significance of this syndrome to the otolaryngologist is discussed . 
value of a multiantigen radioallergosorbent test in diagnosing atopic disease in young children . the purpose of this study was to investigate the value of a new multiantigen radioallergosorbent test , phadiatop paediatric , in the diagnosis of atopy in children less than 7 years of age . the diagnosis of atopic disease was established by history , physical examination , total serum ige concentration , and the results of prick skin tests or radioallergosorbent tests or both , and then compared with the result of the phadiatop paediatric test for each patient . one hundred two patients ( 62 boys ) between the ages of 4 months and 7.3 years were enrolled ( median age 3.2 years ) . after the history and physical examination , 42 % of the patients were believed to be atopic and 32 % to be nonatopic ; the diagnosis was uncertain in 26 % . skin prick test reactions to a variety of foods and inhalants were positive in 41 of 63 children tested ; results of radioallergosorbent tests were positive in 35 of 61 children . overall , atopy was diagnosed in 53 children and 49 were found to be nonatopic . when the clinical diagnosis was used as the gold standard , the phadiatop test resulted in a correct diagnosis of atopy in 49 of 53 cases and of no atopy in 43 of 49 cases : sensitivity = 92 % , specificity = 88 % , and efficiency = 90 % . although the phadiatop paediatric test does not indicate specific sensitivities , it provides the clinician with a useful screening test for atopic disease in children 7 years of age or less , and the researcher with a means of validating atopic populations . 
effect of continuous-infusion zidovudine therapy on neuropsychologic functioning in children with symptomatic human immunodeficiency virus infection . neuropsychologic function was assessed in 13 children with symptomatic human immunodeficiency virus disease ( centers for disease control class p2 ) , ranging in age from 14 months to 12 years . before the initiation of treatment , eight patients were classified as having encephalopathy . psychologic tests were administered both before and after 6 and 12 months of continuous-infusion azidothymidine ( azt ; zidovudine ) treatment . after 6 months of treatment a significant increase of 15.5 ( + / - 3.3 ) iq points was demonstrated in general cognitive functioning ( p less than 0.001 ) . follow-up for 10 of these patients indicated that after 12 months of azt therapy , they had maintained their gains in iq points . improvements in adaptive behavior after 6 months of therapy , assessed with a standardized interview , paralleled the findings on the iq data . no significant differences in the amount of change was observed for the different subgroups . the magnitude of these improvements could not be explained by practice effects , environmental changes , or general improvement in physical state . we conclude that neuropsychologic function was significantly improved with continuous infusion azt treatment . 
vaginitis emphysematosa . a report of four cases . it has been hypothesized that vaginitis emphysematosa is a manifestation of trichomonal or gardnerella infection . in support of this etiologic concept , four cases of the disorder are described showing the apparent curative effect of treating the associated infection . the linkage of these and other reported cases with conditions of impaired immunity suggests that immunologic factors are involved in the pathogenesis . 
chancroid and the role of genital ulcer disease in the spread of human retroviruses . chancroid is the most prevalent form of genital ulcer disease in developing countries and is undergoing a resurgence in industrialized countries . as a result of a nonspecificity of the clinical findings , the etiologic diagnosis of genital ulcer disease requires laboratory support . genital ulcer disease is a risk factor for the transmission of human retroviral infections . an understanding of this interaction is emerging and will impact on the treatment and control programs for the agents causing genital ulcer disease . 
genital herpes simplex virus infections . there has been a dramatic increase in patient visits to physicians for evaluation and treatment of genital herpes infections . this has resulted in part from an increase in genital herpes infections , particularly severe , first-episode genital herpes infections in adults without prior hsv-1 infection . virus culture remains the most sensitive and specific method for diagnosis , and use of viral cultures is encouraged . type-specific antibody tests have been employed in studies documenting the role of asymptomatic shedding of hsv in transmission of genital infections , the role of genital hsv in transmission of hiv , the predominance of asymptomatic and unrecognized infections in those infected with hsv-2 , and the presence of past asymptomatic or unrecognized acquisition of hsv-2 in 25 % of persons presenting with first-episode genital herpes . unfortunately , commercially available serologic tests do not reliably differentiate between antibody to hsv-1 and hsv-2 . recent studies suggest that the annual risk of transmission from a sexual partner with genital herpes is about 10 % in heterosexual couples . currently , promotion of " safe sex " is the only available approach for prevention of transmission . however , ongoing research is focused on the development of an effective vaccine . acyclovir should be used routinely in persons with first-episode genital herpes , but careful evaluation is needed in persons with recurrent genital herpes to determine whether episodic or suppressive treatment is indicated . acyclovir should also be used routinely for episodic or suppressive treatment of hsv infections in persons with aids . additional antiviral agents are needed for more effective suppressive therapy and for treatment of acv-resistant hsv infections in the immunocompromised host . 
sexually transmitted arthritis syndromes . sexually transmitted infections may provoke a wide variety of rheumatic lesions . disseminated n. gonorrhoeae infection leads to septic arthritis , which may be rapidly destructive but which responds promptly to appropriate antibiotic therapy . in contrast , both gonococcal and nongonococcal infections may lead to aseptic " reactive " arthritis or reiter 's syndrome . inheritance of hla b27 confers a relative risk of 30 to 50 times for the development of this condition . the demonstration of c. trachomatis antigen in joint material from a minority of patients suggests that direct interaction between microbial components and class i hla antigens in the joint may be central to the pathogenesis of this disease . arthralgia and arthritis occur in up to 50 % of individuals in the prodrome of hepatitis b infection . joint symptoms may be accompanied by urticarial or cutaneous vasculitic lesions , especially on the legs ; both features resolve with the onset of jaundice . hepatitis b infection is also a major cause of necrotizing vasculitis , which may or may not be associated with overt hepatitis . seronegative arthritis , including reiter 's syndrome , psoriatic arthritis , and undifferentiated arthritis , a sjogren 's - like syndrome , vasculitis , and myopathies have been described in association with hiv infection . it is clear that synovitis occurs in those patients despite the fact that hiv is present in immune cells within the joint during inflammatory arthritis and that both antigen presentation and lymphocyte responsiveness within the joint are impaired . nevertheless , synovitis may occur in the presence of marked cd4-positive lymphocyte depletion . rheumatic syndromes , including arthralgia , inflammatory arthritis , and neuropathic arthritis , may occur during any stage of congenital or acquired syphilis . syphilitic synovitis responds well to antibiotic therapy , but neuropathic lesions can not be treated effectively . septic arthritis has rarely been described as a complication of disseminated mycoplasma or urea-plasma infections , and joint lesions sometimes associated with erythema nodosum have also been reported in lymphogranuloma venereum and granuloma inguinale . 
the interrelationship between human immunodeficiency virus infection and other sexually transmitted diseases . the epidemiology of hiv infection in the united states is changing , with a dramatic reduction in the incidence of new hiv infection in homosexual men over the past decade because of altered sexual practices . in contrast , heterosexual transmission of hiv is increasing and is disproportionately occurring in inner city racial minorities in association with drug use , populations that are currently experiencing epidemics of previously controlled stds . sexually transmitted diseases , especially genital ulcerative diseases and perhaps c. trachomatis and t. vaginalis , facilitate sexual transmission of hiv . in addition , hiv infection itself appears to increase the severity of certain stds once they are acquired . the control of stds , particularly in those populations that are at high risk for hiv infection , should be of high priority and should be an integral component of aids control programs . 
regular inhaled beta-agonist treatment in bronchial asthma 89 subjects with stable asthma took part in a double-blind , placebo-controlled , randomized , crossover study of the effects of regular versus on-demand inhaled bronchodilator therapy . the subjects inhaled fenoterol or placebo by a dry powder delivery system for 24 weeks . control of asthma was judged by daily morning and evening peak expiratory flow rates , symptom diaries , use of additional inhaled bronchodilator , and requirement for short courses of prednisone . of 64 subjects who completed the trial , 57 showed a clear difference in degree of control of asthma between the fenoterol and placebo periods : in 17 ( 30 % [ 95 % confidence interval 18.4-43 .4 % ] ) asthma was better controlled during regular inhaled bronchodilator treatment , whereas in 40 ( 70 % [ 56.6-81 .6 % ] ) control was better during placebo treatment with bronchodilator for symptom relief only . mean airway responsiveness to methacholine increased slightly during the fenoterol period . the adverse effect of regular bronchodilator inhalation occurred not only among subjects who used a bronchodilator as sole treatment ( 2 were better and 10 were worse during regular bronchodilator treatment ) but also among those who took inhaled corticosteroids ( 14 were better and 29 were worse ) . thus , regular inhalation of a beta-sympathomimetic agent was associated with deterioration of asthma control in the majority of subjects . the trends to use of regular , higher doses or longer-acting inhaled beta-sympathomimetic treatment may be an important causal factor in the worldwide increase in morbidity from asthma . 
bronchodilator , cardiovascular , and hypokalaemic effects of fenoterol , salbutamol , and terbutaline in asthma . the airway response and cardiovascular and hypokalaemic effects of fenoterol , salbutamol , and terbutaline given in multiples of standard doses from metered-dose inhalers were studied in ten patients with mild asthma . in a double-blind , crossover , placebo-controlled study the subjects received 2 , 6 , and 18 puffs of each drug with intervals of 90 min , and forced expiratory volume in 1 s , heart rate , qtc interval , plasma potassium concentration , tremor , and bronchial reactivity to histamine were measured . all three drugs produced similar bronchodilatation . however , the rises in heart rate , qtc interval , and tremor and the fall in plasma potassium were greater after fenoterol than after salbutamol or terbutaline . the maximum mean ( sd ) increases in heart rate for fenoterol , salbutamol , and terbutaline were 29 ( 24 ) bpm , 8 ( 9 ) bpm , and 8 ( 14 ) bpm , respectively ; falls in plasma potassium were 0.76 ( 0.62 ) mmol/l , 0.46 ( 0.32 ) mmol/l , and 0.52 ( 0.39 ) mmol/l , respectively . fenoterol afforded no additional protection against histamine compared with salbutamol . these findings suggest that at doses based on those used in clinical practice fenoterol causes more adverse effects than salbutamol or terbutaline . the most likely explanation for these effects is that fenoterol has been marketed at a higher dose than the other beta 2-agonists ; fenoterol may in addition be less selective for beta 2 receptors . 
a randomized , double-blind trial of nystatin therapy for the candidiasis hypersensitivity syndrome background . candida albicans infection has been proposed to cause a chronic hypersensitivity syndrome characterized by fatigue , premenstrual tension , gastrointestinal symptoms , and depression . long-term antifungal therapy has been advocated as treatment for the syndrome , which is most often diagnosed in women with persistent or recurrent candida vaginitis . methods . to determine the efficacy of nystatin therapy for presumed candidiasis hypersensitivity syndrome , we conducted a 32-week randomized , double-blind , cross-over study using four different combinations of nystatin or placebo given orally or vaginally in 42 premenopausal women who met present criteria for the syndrome and had a history of candida vaginitis . the outcomes studied were the changes from base line in scores for vaginal , systemic , and overall symptoms and in the results of standardized psychological tests . results . the three active-treatment regimens ( oral and vaginal nystatin , oral nystatin and vaginal placebo , and oral placebo and vaginal nystatin ) and the all-placebo regimen significantly reduced both vaginal and systemic symptoms ( p less than 0.001 ) , but nystatin did not reduce the systemic symptoms significantly more than placebo . on average , the scores for systemic symptoms improved 25 percent with the three active-treatment regimens and 23 percent with the all-placebo regimen , a difference of only 2 percent ( 95 percent confidence interval , -3 to 7 percent ) . as expected , the three active-treatment regimens were more effective than placebo in relieving vaginal symptoms ( p less than 0.001 ) . all four regimens reduced psychological symptoms and global indexes of distress ; there were no significant differences among the treatment regimens . conclusions . in women with presumed candidiasis hypersensitivity syndrome , nystatin does not reduce systemic or psychological symptoms significantly more than placebo . consequently , the empirical recommendation of long-term nystatin therapy for such women appears to be unwarranted . 
paraneoplastic pemphigus . an autoimmune mucocutaneous disease associated with neoplasia . background and methods . we describe five patients with underlying neoplasms in whom painful mucosal ulcerations and polymorphous skin lesions developed , usually with progression to blistering eruptions on the trunk and extremities . histologic examination showed vacuolization of epidermal basal cells , keratinocyte necrosis , and acantholysis . immunofluorescence testing revealed atypical pemphigus-like autoantibodies in perilesional epithelium and serum from all five patients . we studied the antigenic specificities of the autoantibodies by indirect immunofluorescence and immunoprecipitation , using extracts of 14c-labeled human keratinocytes . igg purified from the serum of one patient was passively transferred to four neonatal mice to test for pathogenicity . results . immunofluorescence testing showed that the autoantibodies bound to the surface of tissues containing desmosomes , including complex and simple epithelia , and myocardium . an identical and unique complex of four polypeptides with molecular weights of 250 , 230 , 210 , and 190 was immunoprecipitated by all serum samples . the 250-kd polypeptide comigrated with desmoplakin i ( a protein found in the desmosomes of all epithelia ) , and the 230-kd antigen comigrated with the antigen of bullous pemphigoid . cutaneous blisters , a positive nikolsky 's sign , and epidermal and esophageal acantholysis developed in all mice into which the autoantibody was injected . electron microscopy showed epidermal acantholysis similar to lesions of experimentally induced pemphigus vulgaris . conclusion . these five patients with cancer had a novel acantholytic mucocutaneous disease characterized by autoantibodies that were pathogenic after passive transfer . the autoantibodies from these patients reacted with an antigen complex composed of desmoplakin i and the 230-kd antigen of bullous pemphigoid and two as yet unidentified epithelial antigens . we suggest the term " paraneoplastic pemphigus " for this disease . 
the effects of a 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor on asthma induced by cold , dry air background . the enzyme 5-lipoxygenase catalyzes the metabolism of arachidonic acid to form products that have been implicated in the airway obstruction of asthma . we hypothesized that if products of the 5-lipoxygenase pathway are important in mediating this obstruction , then prevention of their formation should decrease the severity of an induced asthmatic response . methods . in a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled , crossover study , we examined the effect of a-64077 , a 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor , on the bronchoconstriction induced by hyperventilation of cold , dry air in 13 patients with asthma . the completeness of 5-lipoxygenase inhibition was confirmed by examining the profile of eicosanoids produced in whole blood ex vivo after activation with the calcium ionophore a-23187 . results . a-64077 decreased the mean ( + / - sem ) ionophore-induced synthesis of leukotriene b4 , a 5-lipoxygenase product , by 74 percent ( from 265.3 + / - 30.3 to 69.5 + / - 21.5 ng per milliliter , p less than 0.001 ) , but it did not affect the ionophore-induced synthesis of thromboxane b2 , a cyclooxygenase metabolite of arachidonic acid ( 80.0 + / - 17.1 ng per milliliter before a-64077 vs. 75.8 + / - 14.3 ng per milliliter after a-64077 ) . in concert with the selective inhibition of 5-lipoxygenase by a-64077 , the amount of cold , dry air ( expressed as respiratory heat exchange ) required to reduce the forced expiratory volume in one second by 10 percent was increased by 47 percent after a-64077 ( 3.0 kj per minute for placebo vs. 4.4 kj per minute for a-64077 , p less than 0.002 ) . similar results were obtained when minute ventilation was used as an indicator of outcome ( 27.5 liters per minute for placebo vs. 39.8 liters per minute for a-64077 , p less than 0.005 ) . conclusions . selective inhibition of 5-lipoxygenase by a-64077 is associated with a significant amelioration of the asthmatic response to cold , dry air , suggesting that 5-lipoxygenase products are involved in this response . this approach may be useful in the treatment of asthma . 
biology of retroviruses . detection , molecular biology , and treatment of retroviral infection . although human retrovirology can trace its roots to the early part of this century , it has been within the last decade that the field has seen its greatest advances , including the description of the first human retroviruses , htlv-i , and the subsequent discovery of htlv-ii and the aids retroviruses , hiv-1 and hiv-2 . the growth this field has undergone in recent years would not have been possible had it not been for key advances in the fields of cell biology , immunology , biochemistry , and molecular biology . nowhere has this been more evident than in the description of hiv as the etiologic agent of aids . in the relatively short time since the disease was initially described , the agent responsible has been isolated , much of its complex biology has been defined , and a drug that helps combat it has been licensed for use . the rapidity with which these events have transpired is largely unprecedented . there remain many unanswered questions regarding hiv and aids , and there still is no effective vaccine or cure . significant questions regarding the immune response to hiv and the hiv response to immune or chemotherapeutic challenge , the establishment and maintenance of hiv latency , and the all-important mechanisms of hiv cytopathicity remain unanswered . it is clear that hiv offers no easy answers , and that significant work remains to be done before death from aids can be halted . 
epidemiology of human immunodeficiency virus infection in women in the united states . from 1981 to 1989 , the number of women with hiv infection and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) increased rapidly . most women were infected through intravenous drug use or sexual contact with an infected man . most children were infected through mother-to-infant transmission during pregnancy or delivery . available data suggest that the rapid increase in the number of women with aids will continue for at least the next few years . 
aids . natural history and prognosis . infection with hiv results in a chronic , persistent infection that usually progresses slowly from an asymptomatic state to full-blown aids . aids remains a lethal disease with no effective cure . a great deal of information has been learned in the past decade , yet many questions remain unresolved . much more research is needed into the conditions surrounding the perinatal transmission of hiv . many women who give birth to a child with aids are themselves asymptomatic for hiv infection during pregnancy and at delivery ; thus , routine voluntary prenatal hiv screening programs must be instituted in areas of high seroprevalence . such screening programs must provide pretest and post-test counseling with consent and confidentiality . seroprevalence studies conducted during the perinatal period or at birth using newborn blood samples will provide important epidemiologic data for further research investigations as well as continued estimates of the prevalence of hiv infection . currently , there is no formal reporting system for hiv infection , only for the clinical expression of aids . there may be a need to develop a centralized reporting unit for hiv infection . as the epidemic continues and the true prevalence rates are determined , additional resources for public health care , housing , insurance , and foster care for children will be needed . the number of women who are infected is increasing at an alarming rate . every opportunity to increase public awareness about the aids epidemic and modes of transmission must be exploited if we are to impact on the spread of hiv infection . prospective studies of pregnant hiv-positive women and pediatric follow-up can provide a wealth of data about aids and disease progression in both the mother and the infant . even if some children do not develop aids , the possibility of permanent effects of in utero exposure to the virus still exists . at what exact point in gestation does infection occur ? can infection be prevented or delayed with current chemotherapeutic protocols ? even if a cure or vaccine is developed in the near future , the impact of this deadly virus will have repercussions for many years to come . 
primary care of women infected with the human immunodeficiency virus . aids is the leading cause of death among women aged 25 to 34 years in new york city . gynecologic care should be directed toward early identification and aggressive treatment of infectious and neoplastic processes that may take a more fulminant course in immunosuppressed women . dealing with women 's contraceptive needs highlights the problem of preventing sexually transmitted diseases through contraceptive technology . public health policies and recommendations will be of no avail without an educated and supportive medical community . 
human immunodeficiency virus education and screening of prenatal patients . prenatal hiv education and testing requires access to many resources and is demanding of time and personnel . properly trained sympathetic on-site counselors are essential . such personnel may combine this role with other tasks but should have the time necessary to commit to individualized hiv counseling . high-quality laboratory facilities should be available . ready access to psychiatric professionals , social service supports , clergy , internal medicine , pediatric primary care , and infectious disease consultation or referrals needs to be available and integrated into all prenatal screening programs . obstetrician/gynecologists at all levels should seek access to and support for these necessary though resource-intensive programs and work toward extension of such programs to all women of childbearing age . 
influence of human immunodeficiency virus infection on reproductive decisions . this article discusses the role of the practitioner in the pregnancy decision-making process of the hiv-infected woman . literature on women 's decisions is reviewed , and variables that influence decisions are discussed . the author concludes that hiv infection does not have a significant impact on pregnancy decisions . other cultural and psychosocial variables may have more importance . 
the immunology of hiv disease and pregnancy and possible interactions . hiv infection may impair a large portion of the human immune response . infection of cd4 + t cells results in depletion of this population , leading to dysfunction of t-cell-dependent activities . numerous other immune functions are directly or indirectly impaired , including the function of cd8 + t cells and decreases in total lymphocytes , il-2 secretion , il-2r expression , proliferative response to mitogens , nk activity , adcc , and several other measures . immune alterations seen in normal pregnancy include decreases in cd4 and t cells , the proliferative response to mitogen , il-2 secretion , and nk activity . these changes are largely cellular and usually are not apparent clinically . normal pregnant women are immunocompetent . when pregnancy is complicated by asymptomatic hiv infection , the obstetric outcome does not seem to be adversely affected . preliminary studies show that the course of hiv disease may not be adversely affected in these women , but this matter is the subject of intense investigation . 
role of the placenta in perinatal transmission of hiv . the role of the placental tissue in the perinatal transmission of hiv is still far from being understood . significant data regarding transplacental infection have been collected , but differences in technique have led to controversy . it appears clear that many hofbauer cells are cd4 + and can become infected with hiv . less certain but probable is infection of trophoblasts themselves . whether infection is cd4 mediated or via cell-cell fusion is not established . transplacental traffic of virus and cells remains a little-studied possibility . further data are needed regarding the fascinating concept of the placenta as a modulator of infection . 
human immunodeficiency virus infection in pregnancy . among an estimated 1 million to 1.5 million americans infected with hiv , about 10 per cent are women . moreover , almost 30 per cent of hiv infection among women is acquired through heterosexual activity . therefore , the average obstetrician/gynecologist is not sheltered from dealing with hiv . this article offers guidelines for caring for hiv-infected pregnant women during antepartum , intepartum , and postpartum phases . 
hiv infection . managing exposure risks for the obstetrician/gynecologist . human immunodeficiency virus infection in women is geographically widespread throughout the us . infected blood is the single most important source for hiv transmission in the health care setting . occupationally acquired hiv infection appears to be an uncommon event , with prospective studies thus far reporting an incidence of 0.6 per cent or less . strategies for preventing transmission of hiv infection in an obstetric/gynecologic setting are a matter of appropriate barrier protection , good infection control technique , and a large measure of common sense . 
care of the infant born exposed to human immunodeficiency virus . the expanding epidemic of hiv infection in reproductive-age women , the availability of antiretroviral therapy for children , and recommendations for increased case identification activities augur a time when more and more pediatricians are going to be called on to care for hiv-exposed infants . this article outlines a comprehensive medical framework for the care of these children from the labor and delivery setting to the nursery , outpatient clinic , and the emergency room . it includes issues of infection control ; medical , developmental , and psychosocial care ; and laboratory evaluations . finally , it address the need for long-term follow-up of all children born exposed to hiv . 
human immunodeficiency virus infection , women , and pregnancy . ethical issues . should women of childbearing age be screened for the presence of infection with the human immunodeficiency virus ? if infected , should they be instructed not to become pregnant or not to bear children ? should pregnant women and their offspring be included in research protocols that explore ways to prevent or treat perinatally acquired hiv disease ? this article examines ethical controversies related to hiv screening , counseling , and research and suggests that resolutions may come from achieving greater clarity about the ultimate goals of obstetric and gynecologic care . 
selective induction of toxicity to human cells expressing human immunodeficiency virus type 1 tat by a conditionally cytotoxic adenovirus vector . the human immunodeficiency viruses ( hivs ) primarily infect cd4 + t lymphocytes , leading eventually to the development of a systemic immune dysfunction termed acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . an attractive strategy to combat hiv-mediated pathogenesis would be to eliminate the initial pool of infected cells and thus prevent disease progression . we have engineered a replication-defective , conditionally cytotoxic adenovirus vector , ad-tk , whose action is dependent on the targeted expression of the herpes simplex virus type 1 thymidine kinase gene ( tk ) , cloned downstream of the hiv-1 long terminal repeat , in human cells expressing the hiv-1 transcriptional activator tat . infection of tat-expressing human hela or jurkat cells with ad-tk resulted in high-level tk expression , which was not deleterious to the viability of these cells . however , in the presence of the antiherpetic nucleoside analog ganciclovir , ad-tk infection resulted in a massive reduction in the viability of these tat-expressing cell lines . as adenoviruses are natural passengers of the human lymphoid system , our results suggest adenovirus vector-based strategies for the targeted expression , under the control of cis-responsive hiv regulatory elements , of cytotoxic agents in hiv-infected cells for the therapy of hiv-mediated pathogenesis . 
epstein-barr virus small nuclear rnas are not expressed in permissively infected cells in aids-associated leukoplakia . epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) dna structure and gene expression were analyzed in tissue specimens from oral hairy leukoplakia ( hlp ) , a mucocutaneous lesion that develops in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) . the structure of the terminal restriction enzyme fragments of ebv revealed that hlp is a permissive infection without a predominant , detectable population of ebv episomal dna . in rna preparations from this uniquely permissive infection , ebv replicative mrnas could be identified by northern analysis ; however , the virally encoded small nuclear rnas , the ebers , were not detected in most hlp rna preparations . in situ hybridization detected eber expression in very rare cells . these data indicate that unlike other viral small nuclear rnas , the ebers are not expressed during viral replication and must participate in the complex maintenance of latent ebv infection . 
putative tyrosine kinases expressed in k-562 human leukemia cells . tyrosine phosphorylation is important in the transmission of growth and differentiation signals ; known tyrosine kinases include several oncoproteins and growth factor receptors . interestingly , some differentiated cell types , such as erythrocytes and platelets contain high amounts of phosphotyrosine . we analyzed tyrosine kinases expressed in the k-562 chronic myelogenous leukemia cell line , which has a bipotential erythroid and megakaryoblastoid differentiation capacity . analysis of 359 polymerase chain reaction-amplified cdna clones led to the identification of 14 different tyrosine kinase-related sequences ( jtk1-14 ) . two of the clones ( jtk2 and jtk4 ) represent unusual members of the fibroblast growth factor receptor gene family , and the clones jtk5 , jtk11 , and jtk14 may also belong to the family of receptor tyrosine kinases but lack a close relationship to any known tyrosine kinase . each of these different genes has its own characteristic expression pattern in k-562 cells and several other human tumor cell lines . in addition , the jtk11 and jtk14 mrnas are induced during the megakaryoblastoid differentiation of k-562 cells . these tyrosine kinases may have a role in the differentiation of megakaryoblasts or in the physiology of platelets . 
use of inhaled corticosteroids in patients with mild asthma . a double blind , parallel group study was carried out to investigate the effect of inhaled budesonide in a moderate ( 200 micrograms ) and a low ( 100 micrograms ) twice daily dosage compared with the effect of placebo in 103 adults with mild symptomatic asthma . subjects recorded peak expiratory flow ( pef ) , asthma symptoms , and beta 2 agonist consumption at home for a period of seven weeks ( a one week run in and six weeks ' treatment ) . morning baseline pef ( around 80 % of predicted normal ) increased non-significantly to 88 % with 200 micrograms budesonide daily and to 90 % ( p less than 0.05 ) with 400 micrograms , compared with 81 % with placebo . evening pef ( around 94 % of predicted normal ) did not change significantly with active or placebo treatment . by comparison with placebo , there was a significant decrease in nocturnal asthma symptoms and beta 2 agonist consumption . the changes during the day were less pronounced and significant only for 400 micrograms budesonide daily . no significant differences between the two active treatments were detected . it is concluded that low doses of inhaled budesonide are effective in patients with mild symptomatic asthma , particularly for night time symptoms and early morning lung function . the early introduction of inhaled corticosteroids for patients with mild asthma and night time symptoms may improve their quality of life during the night and early morning . 
do large volume spacer devices reduce the systemic effects of high dose inhaled corticosteroids ? when used in high doses , inhaled corticosteroids may cause suppression of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis . the influence of the mode of drug inhalation on the degree of this suppression is not clear . hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal function was assessed by measurement of 0900 h serum cortisol concentrations , a short tetracosactrin test , and 24 hour urine free cortisol excretion in 48 adults with asthma taking 1500-2500 micrograms beclomethasone dipropionate daily via a metered dose aerosol . twelve patients had hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal suppression , as judged by subnormal results from at least two of the three tests or ( in one patient ) by an abnormal insulin stress test response . these patients then changed to inhaling the same dose of beclomethasone dipropionate through a 750 ml spacer device ( volumatic ) . the endocrine tests were repeated from nine days to eight weeks later in 10 patients . comparison with initial values showed that adding the spacing device caused an increase in the median 0900 h cortisol concentration from 126 nmol/l to 398 nmol/l , in the post-tetracosactrin cortisol concentration from 402 nmol/l to 613 nmol/l and in 24 hour urine free cortisol excretion from 54 nmol to 84 nmol . the rise in serum cortisol concentration in response to tetracosactrin did not change . evidence of persisting hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis suppression was present in only four of the 10 patients ; the most pronounced improvements in function tended to occur in those who had never required long term oral corticosteroids . the results from this uncontrolled study suggest that asthmatic patients taking high dose beclomethasone dipropionate may minimise adverse effects by using a large volume spacer device . 
granulomatous pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . a patient with an unusual granulomatous response to infection with pneumocystis carinii is described . the diagnosis was made by open lung biopsy after two negative bronchoalveolar lavages . 
bronchoalveolar lavage via a modified stomach tube in intubated patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and diffuse pneumonia . a simple non-bronchoscopic bronchoalveolar lavage method was used in 30 patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome undergoing assisted ventilation for respiratory failure . a modified argyle levin stomach tube was passed via the endotracheal tube and lavage performed . the lavage was well tolerated and performed quickly and easily , required little training , and had a high degree of sensitivity ( 73 % -- a diagnosis in 22 of the 30 cases ) . 
primary lymphoma of prostate : transrectal ultrasonic appearance . in the case presented , primary lymphoma of the prostate was diagnosed by ultrasonically guided transrectal biopsy . primary lymphoma of the prostate should be included in the differential diagnosis of a hypoechoic lesion found on ultrasonic evaluation of the prostate in a young adult . 
current report -- hiv . aids at the crossroads : a report from the 1990 international conference on aids -- san francisco . major scientific and clinical breakthroughs in hiv disease are rarely saved for the international conference on aids . nevertheless , this conference provides an opportunity for experts , providers , and patients to gain new information , exchange ideas , and assess progress . the conference is also a public forum for political and social discussion and serves as a barometer of scientific and social trends as well . this year 's conference featured refinements in clinical care , a deeper understanding of the epidemiologic trends , and a public awareness of the many political aspects of the aids epidemic . contributions from family physicians and other primary care providers about problems they face and the family aspects of hiv need still greater prominence and exposure . hopefully family physicians will use their expertise and report at future international conferences . 
hypersensitivity pneumonitis . the lung is constantly exposed to a wide variety of environmental insults . in its defense against these environmental challenges , however , the lung responds through a limited number of pathophysiologic mechanisms . this is well illustrated by a group of diseases which are collectively referred to as hypersensitivity pneumonitis . this syndrome includes a very large number of different diseases . however , in the united states , only farmer 's lung , bird-breeder 's lung , and ventilation hypersensitivity pneumonitis occur with any significant frequency . each of these is characterized by flu-like symptoms , in conjunction with a pneumonitis consisting of lymphocytic granulomatous infiltration of the alveoli and terminal bronchioles . this disease is caused by the inhalation of antigenic material which usually originates from the dusts of organic material . a host of different dusts and antigens have been described in conjunction with hypersensitivity pneumonitis but each leads to the same characteristic clinical syndrome . thus , each of the diseases shares similar clinical features but differs primarily with respect to the nature of the exposure and causative antigens . the clinical features , pathogenesis , course , prognosis , and treatment of these related diseases are reviewed . 
nylon suture toxicity after vitrectomy surgery . a patient underwent an uneventful pars plana vitrectomy with superior sclerotomies closed with 8-0 nylon suture . four months later , the patient had a suture reaction presumably related to allergy to the suture itself . the signs and symptoms resolved after removal of the suture . although similar cases have been reported after nylon sutures in cataract wound closure , this is the first reported occurrence of this phenomenon in vitrectomy surgery to our knowledge . 
bronchial asthma and acid reflux into the distal and proximal oesophagus . the prevalence of pathological gastro-oesophageal reflux in children and adolescents with asthma was studied by 24 hour two level oesophageal ph monitoring in 42 subjects aged 9-20 years with moderate or severe bronchial asthma . the importance of oesophagobronchial nerve reflexes and of aspiration of gastric acid as triggers in asthma was assessed by studying whether episodes of reflux into the distal and into the proximal oesophagus were followed by asthma attacks . twenty-one subjects ( 50 % ) had a pathological total reflux time in the distal oesophagus and six ( 16 % ) in the proximal oesophagus . nine patients had pathological gastro-oesophageal reflux into the distal oesophagus together with symptoms of asthma during the day on which the recording took place . in three of them the episodes of asthma symptoms were significantly correlated with preceding episodes of reflux into the distal oesophagus , and in one subject to reflux into the proximal oesophagus . we conclude that pathological gastro-oesophageal reflux is common in children and adolescents with asthma , but it seems to provoke symptoms of asthma in only a few . symptoms of asthma were more often elicited by exposure of the distal oesophagus to gastric acid , possibly by a vagal reflex , than by aspiration of gastric juice . 
the significance of leu 8 negative t cells in lymphoid skin infiltrates : malignant transformation , selective homing or t-cell activation ? the expression of leu 8 was studied on skin biopsies from a large group of patients with benign and malignant skin disorders and correlated with the expression of t-cell differentiation antigens and activation markers . the effect of in vitro stimulation of peripheral blood t cells and t-cell subsets on the expression of leu 8 antigen was also determined . in all the skin diseases studied an inverse relationship was found between the proportions of cells expressing leu 8 and hla-dr . a deficiency of leu 8 positive cells was not specific for mycosis fungoides , but was also found in several reactive dermatoses . stimulation of peripheral blood cells with phytohaemagglutinin ( pha ) , concanavalin a ( con a ) , and anti-cd3-pma resulted in a considerable decrease of leu 8 antigen expression on day 3 in both cd4 + and cd8 + t cells . these data suggest that the low proportion of leu 8 + t cells in mycosis fungoides and several reactive skin disorders is not related to malignant transformation or selective homing of leu 8 - t cells , but probably results from local t-cell activation . 
immediate contact reactions to chemicals in the fragrance mix and a study of the quenching action of eugenol . in this study , the nature of non-immune immediate contact reactions ( niicr ) produced by cinnamic aldehyde , benzoic acid and sorbic acid were investigated , with particular interest in the ' quenching ' ability of eugenol . three groups of human subjects were studied , and the guinea-pig ear was also used as a model of niicr . cinnamic aldehyde , benzoic acid and sorbic acid were all able to produce niicr in the majority of subjects studied . there was a strong correlation between the susceptibility of each subject to each urticant , but no correlation between the susceptibility to niicr and age , atopic status or tanning ability . eugenol caused a reduction in niicr induced by all three urticants . this ' quenching ' effect was apparent even when the eugenol was applied up to 60 min prior to application of cinnamic aldehyde , and its effect was not eliminated by washing . in the guinea-pig-ear model , ear thickening was induced by all three urticants , and this response was inhibited by eugenol . 
enhanced percutaneous absorption of a novel topical cyclosporin a formulation and assessment of its immunosuppressive activity . no clinically successful topical cyclosporin a ( cya ) formulation has been produced , mainly due to the apparent lack of drug penetration . this study has produced the first in vitro kinetic data on cya penetration across human cadaver stratum corneum and has shown that addition of the penetration enhancers ( pe ) azone and propylene glycol to the cya vehicle significantly enhanced drug permeation across the skin barrier . using flow-through permeability cells with 5 % w/v cya ( sandimmun ) alone ( cya ) or with pe ( cya + pe ) in olive oil in the donor chamber , the penetration rate ( mean + / - sd microgram/cm2/h ) into receptor fluid was 53 + / - 43 ( n = 13 ) for cya and 660 + / - 175 ( n = 7 ) for cya + pe . the in vivo efficacy of this formulation was assessed in guinea-pigs undergoing delayed-type hypersensitivity ( dth ) reactions to dinitrofluorobenzene ( dnfb ) . cya was applied topically at the time of challenge and twice daily thereafter . at 24 h , skin reactions revealed that compared with appropriate drug vehicles , concentrations of 0.25 , 0.5 and 5 % cya + / - pe had a significant inhibitory effect upon the erythema response and this corresponded with significant reductions in t-cell infiltrates ( 0.5 and 5 % cya ) . no statistically significant reductions in erythema were demonstrated with 0.05 % cya + / - pe , but there was a reduction in the number of infiltrating lymphocytes in sites receiving 0.05 % cya + pe compared with vehicle-treated sites ( p less than 0.01 ) . this suggests that pe permitted some penetration of an otherwise non-immunosuppressive concentration of cya through the skin . 
five year prospective study of hiv infection in the edinburgh haemophiliac cohort objective -- to identify measures of immune state that reflect the course of hiv related disease in order to predict deterioration of symptoms and assess response to treatment . design -- five year longitudinal clinical and laboratory study . setting -- regional haemophilia centre , university virology laboratory , and medical research council laboratory . patients -- 32 patients with haemophilia a exposed to a single batch of hiv contaminated factor viii concentrate from the scottish national blood transfusion service in 1984 who were followed up regularly in edinburgh ( 31 ) or abroad ( one ) . main outcome measures -- counts of circulating t cell subsets ( cd4 and cd8 ) ; plasma beta 2 microglobulin , neopterin , and iga concentrations ; and delayed type hypersensitivity to multiple skin test antigens . results -- 18 patients who seroconverted after exposure had received significantly more contaminated factor viii than the 14 who did not ( mean 43 ( range 9-109 ) v 15 ( 3-30 ) phials , p less than 0.01 ) . the two groups were not distinguishable by other criteria before exposure . the group that seroconverted subsequently showed a progressive fall in mean circulating cd4 lymphocytes and an increase in plasma beta 2 microglobulin and neopterin concentrations . from 1987 patients in this group also showed an increase in mean circulating cd8 lymphocytes and in plasma iga concentration , neither of which was seen in patients who did not seroconvert . patients with hiv antibody who developed centers for disease control category iv symptoms within five years after infection showed more extreme changes in all measures , except cd8 lymphocyte count , than those whose symptoms remained in categories ii and iii . skin test reactivity declined to barely detectable levels in all patients positive for hiv antibody . conclusions -- serial estimates of circulating cd4 lymphocytes and of plasma beta 2 microglobulin concentration are the most reliable measures of disease progression ; of these , beta 2 microglobulin concentration seems to be the better predictor of impending serious symptoms . high iga concentrations reflect rather than predict disease state . individual variation in most measures is such that a wide range of measurements should be used in assessing the effects of trial treatment in hiv infected patients without symptoms . 
primary central nervous system lymphoma in a pediatric patient with acquired immune deficiency syndrome . treatment with radiation therapy . primary central nervous system ( cns ) lymphoma , an otherwise rare pediatric tumor , has been reported with increasing frequency in children with acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) . with current therapy , the outcome of this disease is invariably fatal . the authors present a case of primary cns lymphoma in a 3.5-year-old girl with aids who received treatment with total brain irradiation . after treatment , the patient 's mental status improved , the seizures resolved , and she had no further progression of her neurologic symptoms until she died of pneumonia 6 months later . the autopsy revealed a necrotic mass at the site of the original tumor . the brain stem and spinal cord , unirradiated , contained lymphomatous lesions . the patient had extensive fibrinoid necrosis and leukoencephalopathy that were consistent with radiation-induced cns damage . coexisting aids encephalopathy also contributed to the patient 's cns injury . effective palliation of cns lymphoma in children with aids may be obtained with cranial irradiation . pediatric aids patients may show more severe tissue effects from irradiation than unaffected children . 
histopathologic , immunophenotypic , and genotypic analysis of ki-1 anaplastic large cell lymphomas that express histiocyte-associated antigens . cd30/ki -1 antigen expression in 243 cases of malignant lymphomas was examined using ber-h2 monoclonal antibody . among them 20 cases were categorized as ki-1 anaplastic large cell lymphoma . in two of these cases histiocyte-associated markers were also expressed . in these cases histopathologic and extensive in situ immunophenotypic analyses were used with genotypic studies in the determination of cell lineage . a sinusoid histologic pattern of involvement with partial lymph node infiltration by pleomorphic neoplastic cells was noticed in the nodes from both patients . solid areas of node replacement resembling metastatic carcinoma were seen in patient 1 . immunohistologically , tumor cells of both cases were positive for cd30 , cd25 , cd71 , ln3 ( hla-dr ) , ema , cd45 , cd74 , vimentin , alpha-1-antichymotrypsin , and cd68 . patient 1 was also cd45ro + , cd43 + , whereas patient 2 was positive for alpha-1-antitrypsin and cd4 tumor cells . genotypic studies revealed that tcr beta and tcr gamma chain genes were clonally rearranged in patient 1 , whereas no rearrangements were detected in patient 2 . this study supports the view that some ki-1 anaplastic large cell lymphomas may express multiple histiocyte-associated antigens and confirms that this group of neoplasms have immunophenotypic heterogeneity . the results of genotypic analyses used with immunophenotyping does not exclude that the tumor cells in these cases may be of true histiocytic origin despite the ki-1-positive phenotype . 
primary breast lymphoma . an immunohistologic study of 20 new cases . primary malignant lymphomas of the breast ( pbl ) are uncommon . the authors report the clinical , histologic , and immunoperoxidase findings on 20 cases recorded at the alberta cancer registry over the last 23 years . these cases were then added to material on 257 cases abstracted from the literature and analyzed . it was found that there are two clinicopathologic types of pbl . the first affects pregnant or lactating women with bilateral , diffuse disease , is rapidly fatal , and corresponds histologically to a burkitt 's - type lymphoma . the second is unilateral at presentation and afflicts a broad age range , but primarily older women . this has a variable course only part of which is predicted by histologic grade and stage . tumor size , treatment , and side of presentation were not found to be significant prognostic factors . histologically , these tumors can be grouped into large cell b-cell lymphomas , monocytoid b-cell lymphomas ( mbcl ) , and undifferentiated , some of which may be t-cell . evidence suggesting that the mbcl of breast are the equivalent of the malignant lymphomas of the mucosa-associated lymphoid tissues ( malt ) is reviewed . the breast is a hormone-dependent member of the malt and therefore it is interesting that two of these tumors were strongly positive for estrogen receptors . 
primary malignant lymphomas of the spleen . a morphologic and immunohistochemical analysis of 17 cases . seventeen cases of primary malignant lymphoma of the spleen ( pmls ) were identified among 500 splenectomy specimens showing involvement by hodgkin 's disease or non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . all pmls represented non-hodgkin 's lymphoma and most of them were of b-cell origin . in two cases pmls were associated with hamartomas of the spleen ( splenomas ) . histologic and immunohistochemical studies did not reveal any differences between pmls and disseminated malignant lymphomas with splenic involvement with regard to morphologic features , immunophenotype , host cell infiltrates , or proliferation activity . the reasons for the infrequent occurrence of primary lymphomas in the spleen may not be sought in a special immunophenotype of pmls , a vigorous host response in the spleen , or in a lower proliferation activity of splenic lymphomas . 
pulmonary problems in pregnancy . pregnant women with asthma and pulmonary infections should be treated essentially the same as nonpregnant women with similar disease severity . definitive diagnosis and prompt treatment with heparin should be used for patients with pulmonary thromboembolism . 
igg subclasses in the serum and skin in subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus and neonatal lupus erythematosus . igg subclasses differ in their biologic and chemical properties , such as complement fixation , protein and cellular binding , and placental transfer . in this study , igg subclasses of anti-ro/ssa antibodies in subacute cutaneous lupus ( scle ) and neonatal lupus ( nle ) are examined in the serum and in the skin . igg subclasses in nle beginning in utero ( nle-heart disease ) are compared to subclasses in nle beginning after birth ( nle-skin disease ) . human skin was grafted onto athymic mice , mice were injected with one of eight anti-ro/ssa maternal nle sera ( four heart block , four skin disease ) or seven anti-ro/ssa scle sera , and grafts were examined for igg subclasses using monoclonal anti-human igg subclass reagents in an immunofluorescent technique . lesional skin was examined from four scle patients . igg1 was the only igg subclass detected in the grafts and skin lesions . igg1 was the predominant anti-ro/ssa igg subclass detected in scle and nle sera in an elisa using a synthetic ro/ssa polypeptide . these studies show that the maternal anti-ro/ssa autoantibodies in nle-heart disease sera are predominantly igg1 and are therefore likely to be present in the fetus at the time of gestation , when heart block usually develops . second , differences in the clinical presentations of nle ( in utero vs. postnatal disease ) can not be attributed to differences in anti-ro/ssa igg subclasses . finally , the subclass bound in the skin in scle is igg1 , a subclass capable of mediating tissue injury via complement or cellular effectors . 
monoclonal antibodies to immunogenic lymphoma cell variants displaying impaired neoplastic properties : characterization and applications . immunogenic , nontumorigenic cell variants derived from the highly tumorigenic mouse lymphoma cell line s-49 were used to raise monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) in syngeneic balb/c mice . mabs of the following specifications were derived : ( a ) mabs that interacted preferentially with the immunogenic variants , ( b ) mabs that interacted with both immunogenic variants and parental tumorigenic cells , and ( c ) a mab that interacted with both immunogenic and tumorigenic s-49 cells and the normal balb/c splenocytes . six mabs raised in this way were found to recognize at least five different cell-surface epitopes . functional analysis of the different mabs suggested their potential usefulness in passive immunization against parental tumorigenic cells as well as in enrichment of immunogenic cells from a mixed population containing a preponderance of tumorigenic cells . 
history of cigarette smoking and risk of leukemia and myeloma : results from the adventist health study . the risks of leukemia and myeloma associated with cigarette smoking were evaluated in a cohort study of 34,000 seventh-day adventists . although seventh-day adventists do not smoke by church proscription , many are adult converts who smoked cigarettes prior to their baptism into the church . in comparison with those who never smoked , ex-smokers experience a relative risk of 2.00 ( 95 % confidence interval = 1.01-3 .95 ) for leukemia and 3.01 ( 95 % confidence interval = 1.13-8 .05 ) for myeloma . risks increased in a dose-response fashion with increasing numbers of cigarettes smoked daily for both leukemia ( trend p = .009 ) and myeloma ( trend p = .005 ) . also , the risks of both leukemia and myeloma increased with the total duration of cigarette smoking . the cigarette smoking-leukemia relationship was strongest for myeloid leukemia , for which ex-smokers experienced a relative risk of 2.24 ( 95 % confidence interval = 0.91-5 .53 ) . these data lend support to the hypothesis that cigarette smoke may induce malignant degeneration in bone marrow and its products . 
lipolytic factors associated with murine and human cancer cachexia . we have identified a lipolytic factor in extracts of a cachexia-inducing murine carcinoma ( mac16 ) that shows characteristics of an acidic peptide and appears to be composed of three fractions of apparent molecular weights corresponding to 3 kd , 1.5 kd , and 0.7 kd , as determined by exclusion chromatography . material with identical chromatographic and molecular weight characteristics was also present in the serum of patients with clinical cancer cachexia but absent from normal serum , even under conditions of starvation . the mac16 lipid factor , when injected into animals bearing the non-cachexia-inducing tumor mac13 , was capable of inducing weight loss without a significant reduction in food intake . similar lipolytic material , although in lower concentration , was also found in the mac13 tumor extracts . these findings suggest that cachexia may arise from the enhanced expression of a lipolytic factor associated with tumor cells . 
effects of the differentiating agent hexamethylene bisacetamide on normal and myelodysplastic hematopoietic progenitors . hexamethylene bisacetamide ( hmba ; nsc 95580 ) is a potent polar-planar differentiating agent of leukemia and solid tumor cell lines in vitro at clinically achievable concentrations . hmba is currently being studied in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome . previous phase i trials have demonstrated that hmba produces hematologic toxicity in morphologically normal bone marrows of patients with solid tumors . because of concern that hmba may produce more severe myelotoxicity in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome since these patients have limited hematopoietic reserves , we studied the effects of hmba on myelodysplastic and normal hematopoietic progenitors in vitro . hmba concentrations that are optimal for differentiation in vitro ( 2 to 5 mmol/l ) and hmba concentrations that are being achieved in clinical trials ( 1 to 2 mmol/l ) inhibited the growth of granulocyte-macrophage colony-forming units and erythroid burst-forming units from all 15 patients with myelodysplastic syndrome and all 4 normal subjects , hmba did not induce proliferation of myelodysplastic or normal progenitors at any concentration ; rather , it produced nearly identical inhibition of normal and myelodysplastic hematopoietic progenitors . hmba also produced quantitatively similar inhibition of clonogenic leukemic growth of two myeloid leukemia cell lines . for a differentiating agent to be effective , it will likely have to either produce both differentiation and proliferation of abnormal hematopoietic progenitors or show selective inhibitory effects on abnormal as compared with normal progenitors . although the mechanisms responsible for the antiproliferative effects of hmba can not be determined from this study , similar inhibitory effects of hmba on normal and abnormal hematopoietic progenitors suggest that hmba may be of limited utility in producing and sustaining elevations of peripheral blood cell counts in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome . 
novel primitive lymphoid tumours induced in transgenic mice by cooperation between myc and bcl-2 . the putative oncogene bcl-2 is juxtaposed to the immunoglobulin heavy chain ( igh ) locus by the t ( 14 ; 18 ) chromosomal translocation typical of human follicular b-cell lymphomas . the bcl-2 gene product is not altered by the translocation , but its expression is deregulated , presumably by the igh enhancer e mu . constitutive bcl-2 expression seems to augment cell survival , as infection with a bcl-2 retrovirus enables certain growth factor-dependent mouse cell lines to maintain viability when deprived of factor . furthermore , high levels of the bcl-2 product can protect human b and t lymphoblasts under stress and thereby confer a growth advantage . mice expressing a bcl-2 transgene controlled by the igh enhancer accumulate small non-cycling b cells which survive unusually well in vitro but do not show a propensity for spontaneous tumorigenesis . in contrast , an analogous myc transgene , designed to mimic the myc-igh translocation product typical of burkitt 's lymphoma and rodent plasmacytoma , promotes b lymphoid cell proliferation and predisposes mice to malignancy in pre-b and b lymphoid cells . previous experiments have suggested that bcl-2 can cooperate with deregulated myc to improve in vitro growth of pre-b and b cells . here we describe a marked synergy between bcl-2 and myc in doubly transgenic mice . e mu-bcl-2 / myc mice show hyperproliferation of pre-b and b cells and develop tumours much faster than e mu-myc mice . suprisingly , the tumours derive from a cell with the hallmarks of a primitive haemopoietic cell , perhaps a lymphoid-committed stem cell . 
bcl-2 is an inner mitochondrial membrane protein that blocks programmed cell death . the t ( 14 ; 18 ) chromosomal translocation of human follicular b-cell lymphoma juxtaposes the bcl-2 gene with the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus . the bcl-2 immunoglobulin fusion gene is markedly deregulated resulting in inappropriately elevated levels of bcl-2 rna and protein . transgenic mice bearing a bcl-2 immunoglobulin minigene demonstrate a polyclonal expansion of resting yet responsive igm-igd b cells which display prolonged cell survival but no increase in cell cycling . moreover , deregulated bcl-2 extends the survival of certain haematopoietic cell lines following growth-factor deprivation . by using immunolocalization studies we now demonstrate that bcl-2 is an integral inner mitochondrial membrane protein of relative molecular mass 25,000 ( 25k ) . overexpression of bcl-2 blocks the apoptotic death of a pro-b-lymphocyte cell line . thus , bcl-2 is unique among proto-oncogenes , being localized to mitochondria and interfering with programmed cell death independent of promoting cell division . 
annual summary of vital statistics -- 1989 . us infant mortality continued to decline slowly and the provisional 1989 rate , 9.7 per 1000 live births , was the lowest ever recorded . final 1988 data showed no change in cause of death distribution or in the wide discrepancy between white and black infant mortality . state rates varied from 6.8 in vermont to 12.6 in georgia . worldwide , the us rate of 10.0 was bettered by 21 other countries , with japan lowest at 4.8 . births increased in number and rate , because of a higher fertility rate and more women in the childbearing years . the birth rate to mothers 17 years of age and younger increased again . the proportion of women who had no or inadequate prenatal care was essentially unchanged . deaths , crude death rate , and age-adjusted death rate decreased . the excess of births over deaths added almost 1.9 million persons to the us population , the highest rate of natural increase since 1971 . the marriage rate was essentially unchanged , whereas the divorce rate decreased slightly , to the lowest level since 1973 . with the exception of human immunodeficiency virus infection , homicide , and pulmonary malignancies , rates for most causes of death declined from 1988 to 1989 . in comparison with 1940 , most declines were substantial , led by pneumonia , down about 80 % , and perinatal conditions , down about 75 % . the only large-scale increases among major causes in the half century were in two diseases related to cigarette smoking : chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , up eightfold , and respiratory cancer , up almost sixfold . death rates from all other cancers , as a group , decreased by some 20 % and from cardiovascular diseases by some 60 % . 
interleukin-2 immunotherapy in children . immunotherapy with interleukin ( il ) -2 possesses great potential in the treatment of immune-mediated diseases and cancers . however , only a few reports on a small number of children have appeared in the literature . from march 1988 to march 1989 , 11 children and adolescents were treated with il-2 . they included 1 patient with hepatocellular carcinoma , 1 with hepatoblastoma , 6 with childhood atopic dermatitis , and 3 with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis . the dosages ranged from 10,000 to 50,000 u/kg every 8 hours by intravenous drip . the following side effects were observed : anorexia , fever , and chillness ( 100 % ) , general malaise ( 82 % ) , irritability ( 64 % ) , diarrhea ( 100 % ) , nausea and vomiting ( 73 % ) , weight gain ( 82 % ) , edema ( 82 % ) , abdominal distension ( 73 % ) , oliguria ( 82 % ) , cough ( 91 % ) , dyspnea ( 27 % ) , pleural effusion ( 40 % ) , hypotension ( 82 % ) , skin eruption ( 82 % ) , oral ulcer ( 18 % ) , enlarged liver ( 73 % ) liver function abnormalities ( 82 % ) , renal function impairment ( 36 % ) , electrolyte imbalance ( 73 % ) , anemia ( 91 % ) , thrombocytopenia ( 54 % ) , leukopenia ( 18 % ) , and eosinophilia ( 73 % ) . immunologically , numbers of natural killer cells were increased and natural killer and lymphokine-activated killer cell activities were augmented after il-2 treatment . there was a tendency for serum levels of il-2 and receptor il-2 to decrease , especially in patients with atopic eczema . ten patients ( 91 % ) completed one course ( 9 to 12 days ) of therapy , and the remaining patient interrupted the treatment because of intolerable adverse effects . clinically , complete remission for 3 months was obtained in 1 juvenile rheumatoid arthritis patient , transient improvement ( 2 to 6 weeks ) in all atopic dermatitis patients , minor response in the hepatoblastoma patient , and no response in the patient with hepatocellular carcinoma . 
mapping chromosome band 11q23 in human acute leukemia with biotinylated probes : identification of 11q23 translocation breakpoints with a yeast artificial chromosome . translocations involving chromosome 11 , band q23 , are frequent recurring abnormalities in human acute lymphoblastic and acute myeloid leukemia . we used 19 biotin-labeled probes derived from genes and anonymous cosmids for hybridization to metaphase chromosomes from leukemia cells that contained four translocations involving band 11q23 : t ( 4 ; 11 ) ( q21 ; q23 ) , t ( 6 ; 11 ) ( q27 ; q23 ) , t ( 9 ; 11 ) ( p22 ; q23 ) , and t ( 11 ; 19 ) ( q23 ; p13 ) . the location of the cosmid probes relative to the breakpoint in 11q23 was the same in all translocations . of the cosmid clones containing known genes , cd3d was proximal and pbgd , thy1 , srpr , and ets1 were distal to the breakpoint on 11q23 . hybridization of genomic dna from a yeast clone containing yeast artificial chromosomes ( yacs ) , that carry 320 kilobases ( kb ) of human dna including cd3d and cd3g genes , showed that the yacs were split in all four translocations . these results indicate that the breakpoint at 11q23 in each of these translocations occurs within the 320 kb encompassed by these yacs ; whether the breakpoint within the yacs is precisely the same in the different translocations is presently unknown . 
aids , minority patients , and doctors : what 's the risk ? who 's talking ? we asked 39 physicians providing primary care for a mostly minority patient population to respond to a questionnaire concerning their attitudes and behavior toward aids risk assessment and preventive counseling and to indicate their beliefs concerning patients ' knowledge and behavior . most of the 36 physicians who responded ( 92 % ) agreed that physicians must educate their patients about aids . they also reported that patients who engage in risk-taking behavior may not know much about aids transmission and prevention . despite these beliefs , these doctors reported that they gave advice to only 11 % of their male patients and 14 % of their female patients . more than one third of physicians reported feeling uncomfortable talking about patients ' sexual preferences and practices . to identify patients at risk and to help prevent aids , methods must be found to make physicians more comfortable discussing sexual issues with their patients , especially their minority patients . 
cardiovascular anomalies associated with prenatal exposure to theophylline . theophylline has been shown to be a potent cardiovascular teratogen in animals , but there has been no evidence linking theophylline with congenital anomalies in infants . the cardiovascular anomalies in our three patients were aortic anomalies , double-outlet right ventricle , transposition of the great arteries , total anomalous pulmonary venous connection , and hypoplasia of the left ventricle . some of these rare defects were also induced frequently in animal experiments with theophylline , which suggests that this drug can be a cardiovascular teratogen in a susceptible human fetus . 
helicobacter pylori infection in patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome . a controlled study was conducted on patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection referred for upper endoscopy to evaluate the prevalence of helicobacter pylori ( h. pylori ) infection . four different stains and culture for h. pylori were performed on biopsy specimens from the gastric antrum . sixteen ( 40 % ) of 40 patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) or aids-related complex ( arc ) were diagnosed to be infected with h. pylori versus 14 ( 39 % ) of 36 age-matched control patients . eight of 15 aids/arc patients without aids-related esophagogastroduodenal findings ( 53 % ) were infected with h. pylori versus 8/25 ( 32 % ) with endoscopic findings typical of aids . no invasion of the lamina propria by h. pylori was noted in any patient . active chronic gastritis was present in 60 % of aids/arc patients and 61 % of controls . fifty-eight and 59 % , respectively , of active chronic gastritis cases were infected with h. pylori . all the h. pylori infections , except one , were found in patients with chronic gastritis . in aids/arc patients , h. pylori infection and active chronic gastritis are as common as in other patients referred for upper endoscopy . they may play a pathogenic role , especially when endoscopic aids-related findings are lacking . cell-mediated immune deficiency does not appear to increase the risk of infection with h. pylori . 
avascular necrosis of bone : a common serious complication of allogeneic bone marrow transplantation . purpose : to describe the incidence , presentation , clinical course , and management of avascular necrosis of bone following bone marrow transplantation , and to identify risk factors related to its development and outcome . patients and methods : all patients developing avascular necrosis after transplantation between march 1974 and may 1988 were identified by means of the minnesota bone marrow transplant database and hospital records and included in analysis . of 902 consecutive patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation , 28 developed avascular necrosis of bone . results : twenty-eight of 642 allogeneic transplant recipients ( 10.4 % by product limit estimate ) developed avascular necrosis compared to zero of 260 autologous transplant recipients . symptoms developed 1 to 62 months ( median 12 months ) after transplantation . in the 28 patients a total of 91 joints were affected ( mean 3.3 per patient , range one to eight joints ) . the hip joint was most often involved ( 64 % of patients ) , followed by knee ( 61 % ) , ankle ( 29 % ) , shoulder ( 21 % ) , and elbow ( 7 % ) . initial standard radiographs were negative in 13 patients , while in nine patients , technetium-99 scans and/or magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated changes of osteonecrosis before changes on routine radiographs . almost all patients had received steroid prophylaxis and therapy for graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) . we observed a significant correlation between the total cumulative dose of steroids and number of joints involved ( p less than 0.01 ) . a multivariate analysis ( allogeneic transplant patients only ) identified acute or chronic gvhd requiring steroid therapy ( p = 0.003 ) , and increasing age ( p = 0.002 ) as significant and independent risk factors . fourteen patients required surgery , including joint replacement in 11 patients . in six of six patients , hip core decompression failed to halt disease progression , and total hip arthroplasty was subsequently required . conclusion : avascular necrosis of bone is a frequent late complication of bone marrow transplantation , causing significant morbidity and often requiring surgery ; diagnosis using conventional imaging techniques may be difficult and treatment remains inadequate . 
determinants of condom use among french heterosexuals with multiple partners . in september 1988 , a sample of french individuals between 18 and 49 years of age , who reported more than one sexual partner in the past six months and who considered themselves heterosexuals ( n = 1088 ) , were interviewed at home about risk perception of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) transmission , sexual behavior , and condom use . systematic or occasional use of condoms during the previous 12 months was reported by 46.9 percent of respondents . among condom users , 38.7 percent declared they had never used condoms before the last 12 months , fear of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) rather than contraception being the main motivation of these recent users . multivariate analysis indicates that voluntary testing for hiv , average or more than average fear of sexually transmitted diseases ( stds ) , and knowledge of hiv carrier in personal relations are associated with condom use . 
disease control priorities in developing countries : health policy responses to epidemiological change . health systems in developing countries are facing major challenges in the 1990s and beyond because of a growing epidemiological diversity as a consequence of rapid economic development and declining fertility . the infectious and parasitic diseases of childhood must remain a priority at the same time the chronic diseases among adults are emerging as a serious problem . health policymakers must engage in undertaking an epidemiological and economic analysis of the major disease problems , evaluating the cost-effectiveness of alternative intervention strategies ; designing health care delivery systems ; and , choosing what governments can do through persuasion , taxation , regulation , and provision of services . the world bank has commissioned studies of over two dozen diseases in developing countries which have confirmed the priority of child survival interventions and revealed that interventions for many neglected and emerging adult health problems have comparable cost-effectiveness . most developing countries lack information about most major diseases among adults , reflecting lack of national capacities in epidemiological and economic analyses , health technology assessment , and environmental monitoring and control . there is a critical need for national and international investment in capacity building and essential national health research to build the base for health policies . 
aids-related knowledge , sexual behavior , and condom use among men and women in kinshasa , zaire . this study was conducted in 1988 among a random sample of 6,625 men and women of reproductive age in all 24 administrative zones of kinshasa , the capital city of zaire , to determine existing levels of knowledge regarding aids ( acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ) , sexual behavior , knowledge and use of condoms in marital and extramarital relations ; perceived risk of aids , and attitudes toward testing for the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) . awareness of aids is almost universal , and the vast majority know the four main modes of transmission . almost half believed in transmission by mosquitoes and in a vaccine or cure for aids . the majority of male respondents knew of condoms , but negative attitudes toward condom use are widespread , and few respondents perceived them to play a central role in combatting aids . 
the course of the hiv epidemic among intravenous drug users in amsterdam , the netherlands . to determine if behavioral changes in intravenous drug users in amsterdam have retarded the hiv ( human immunodeficiency virus ) epidemic in this group in recent years , we report that : hiv-antibody seroprevalence in annual samples of injectors has been constant over the years 1986-89 ; hiv-antibody incidence in a cohort of injectors appears to have decreased from 1986 to 1987 and stabilized after that until 1989 ; acute hepatitis b incidence in all drug users in amsterdam declined rapidly between 1985-89 . it is concluded that changes in drug use behavior so far appear to have resulted in a stabilization of the epidemic among injectors , at a level with a still disturbingly high incidence rate of 5-6 per 100 person-years . 
the impact of hiv-related illness on employment . we used structured telephone interviews to determine the extent of work loss following onset of symptoms , the interval between onset of symptoms and cessation of work , and the risk factors for work loss among 193 persons with symptoms of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - related illness attending the aids clinic at the university of california , san francisco , between october 1 , 1988 , and september 30 , 1989 . estimates of the duration of time between onset of hiv-related symptoms and work loss derive from the life table method of kaplan and meier . a cox proportional hazards model is used to estimate the effect of risk factors on the probability of withdrawing from work in each time interval . eighty-six percent of the respondents worked prior to onset of the first symptom of hiv-related illness ; 40 percent were working at the time of the most recent interview , a mean of 958 days later . the total number of hours worked declined by 59 percent during this time . kaplan-meier analysis indicates that 50 percent who worked prior to onset of hiv-related illness stopped working within two years and all had stopped within 10 years after onset of the first symptom . 
kaposi 's sarcoma of the rectum in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . we retrospectively reviewed eight patients with biopsy-proven anorectal kaposi 's sarcoma ( ks ) treated between 1984 and 1989 at san francisco general hospital . all patients were homosexual men with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . the average age was 34 years . three patients had primary rectal ks without metastases . five patients had disseminated ks with lesions throughout the alimentary tract , viscera , skin , or local lymph nodes . three patients were treated with radiation or chemotherapy . five patients had disseminated ks with lesions throughout the alimentary tract , viscera , skin , or local lymph nodes . three patients were treated with radiation or chemotherapy . five patients with advanced aids received no specific treatment for anorectal ks . follow-up ranged from 1 month to 5 years . three of the untreated patients and the three patients treated with chemotherapy or radiotherapy were alive 1 month to 5 years after diagnosis . aggressive surgical treatment of anorectal ks is not indicated . 
severe anemia is an important negative predictor for survival with disseminated mycobacterium avium-intracellulare in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [ published erratum appears in am rev respir dis 1991 feb ; 143 ( 2 ) :451 ] disseminated mycobacterium avium-intracellulare ( mai ) in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) is usually unresponsive to antimycobacterial therapy . we examined clinical and laboratory characteristics of mai organisms and their relationship to the length of survival . we studied factors influencing survival and compared these in 76 patients with aids with and without mai . serum levels of p24 antigen and erythropoietin , and cd4-positive helper t-lymphocytes in blood were assessed in 36 additional patients with various clinical stages of hiv infection . in patients with mai infection , survival was significantly related only to total lymphocyte count , hematocrit , platelet count , and sex . of these , hematocrit and total lymphocyte count were the only linear predictors of survival . anemia was significantly more profound in patients with aids and mai than in the other patients . this anemia in patients with mai could not be ascribed to increased peripheral destruction of red cells , deficient nutritional factors , or erythropoietin production , hiv viral or bacterial load , or a general effect on other blood elements such as neutrophils or platelets . the influence of mai on survival in patients with aids did depend upon whether the mai occurred as an index infection or was preceded by other opportunistic infections . patients with other preceding opportunistic infection lived for a much shorter duration from the time of diagnosis of mai . 
genetics of asthma and hay fever in australian twins . the occurrence of self-reported asthma/wheezing and hay fever among 3,808 pairs of twins from the australian national health and medical research council twin registry was examined for evidence of genetic transmission by path analytic methods . the cumulative prevalence of asthma or wheezing was 13.2 % and of hay fever , 32 % . there were significant correlations in liability to reported disease among twins , and these were higher in monozygotic twins ( mz ) ( r = 0.65 ) than in dizygotic twins ( dz ) ( r = 0.25 ) , and in male mz twins ( r = 0.75 ) compared with female mz twins ( r = 0.60 ) . analysis under the assumptions of the classic twin model suggested that there were genetic factors common to asthma and hay fever , with a correlation in genetic liability to the traits of 0.52 for men and 0.65 for women . these genes acted substantially in a nonadditive fashion in men but not in women . as the genetic correlation was significantly less than unity , this implied additional genetic factors influencing either or both diseases individually . the estimated heritability of these diseases was 60 to 70 % in this population . environmental causes of both diseases also were correlated ( r = 0.53 for men and 0.33 for women ) . cigarette smoking was only weakly associated with wheezing . 
prevalence of occupational asthma and immunologic sensitization to psyllium among health personnel in chronic care hospitals . psyllium is a high molecular weight laxative that can cause occupational asthma among health care workers who prepare this product for chronically ill patients . the prevalence of immunologic sensitization and occupational asthma to psyllium is unknown . we investigated the personnel of four chronic care hospitals , including two where four cases of occupational asthma had been confirmed the year preceding the trial . a questionnaire and skin prick tests with psyllium and various inhalants were administered to 193 of 248 ( 78 % ) of the workers who agreed to participate . seventy-five subjects ( 39 % ) had a history of respiratory symptoms in normal life and/or respiratory symptoms and/or rhinoconjunctivitis after handling psyllium . six ( 3 % ) showed skin reactivity to psyllium . increased specific ige antibodies were found in 20 of 162 of the sera that were tested ( 12 % ) . in the second part of the study , a histamine inhalation challenge was performed on 70 of 75 ( 93 % ) of the subjects with a history suggestive of asthma and/or occupational asthma and/or skin reactivity to psyllium . twenty ( 29 % ) had significant bronchial hyperresponsiveness . the six subjects with a history suggestive of occupational asthma ( n = 3 ) and/or asthma ( n = 6 ) and/or positive skin test results to psyllium ( n = 6 ) had significant bronchial hyperresponsiveness and increased specific ige levels . they all underwent specific inhalation challenges with psyllium in the laboratory . four developed bronchospastic reactions ( two immediate and two dual reactions ) . we conclude that by including the initial four cases reported in the year preceding the initiation of this trial , the prevalence of ige sensitization to psyllium was between 5 ( skin testing ) and 12 % ( increased specific ige levels ) . 
comparative airway response to inhaled bradykinin , kallidin , and [ des-arg9 ] bradykinin in normal and asthmatic subjects . bradykinin , kallidin ( lys-bradykinin ) , and [ des-arg9 ] bradykinin are oligopeptides that may contribute as mediators in the pathogenesis of asthma by interacting with specific receptors designated b1 and b2 . in this study , we have investigated the airway response to inhaled bradykinin , kallidin , and [ des-arg9 ] bradykinin in normal and asthmatic subjects . changes in airway caliber were followed as maximum expiratory flow at 30 % of the vital capacity ( vp30 ) and as forced expiratory volume in 1 s ( fev1 ) . only one of the six normal subjects responded to bradykinin at the maximum cumulative concentration ( 5.33 mg/ml ) . neither kallidin nor [ des-arg9 ] bradykinin had any measurable bronchoconstrictor effect in the normal subjects whether airway caliber was measured as vp30 or fev1 . in the 10 subjects with asthma , bradykinin and kallidin , but not [ des-arg9 ] bradykinin , produced a concentration-related fall in fev1 . the geometric mean provocation concentrations of inhaled agonist reducing fev1 by 20 % of baseline were 0.03 , 0.08 , and 0.44 mg/ml for bradykinin , kallidin , and histamine , respectively . bronchoconstriction produced by bradykinin and kallidin was maximal within 3 to 5 min with recovery occurring over 30 to 45 min . because bradykinin and kallidin are agonists of b2 receptors and [ des-arg9 ] bradykinin is an agonist for b1 receptors , these in vivo structure activity studies suggest that asthmatic , but not normal , airways are hyperresponsive to kinins when compared to histamine and that this potent bronchoconstrictor action is a specific pharmacologic effect compatible with the stimulation of b2 receptors or a variant of these . 
identification of activated t lymphocytes and eosinophils in bronchial biopsies in stable atopic asthma . we have used immunohistochemistry and monoclonal antibodies to analyze the phenotypic composition and activation status of the cellular infiltrate of bronchial biopsies obtained by fiber optic bronchoscopy of 11 atopic asthmatic subjects ( fev1 % predicted range 78 to 114 ) , 9 atopic nonasthmatic control subjects , and 10 normal healthy subjects . examination of mucosal biopsies obtained from both central ( level i ) and subsegmental ( level ii ) bronchi showed that the highest number of cd45 - , dc3 - , dc4 - , and cd8-positive cells were found in the group with asthma . there was a significant increase in the number of interleukin-2 receptor ( cd25 ) - positive cells ( a marker of lymphocyte activation ) at airway level i in the asthmatic group compared with both nonasthmatic atopic ( p less than 0.05 ) and normal control subjects ( p less than 0.01 ) . eosinophil numbers were significantly increased in asthma at both airway levels and at airway level ii in the nonasthmatic atopic group when compared with normal healthy control subjects ( p less than 0.05 ) . eg2-positive cells ( an index of secretion of eosinophil cationic protein following activation ) were found at both airway levels in the asthmatic group and at level i in the nonasthmatic atopic control group ( p less than 0.05 ) . when asthmatic subjects were compared with normal healthy subjects , there was a reduction in the number of neutrophil elastase-positive cells in the asthmatic subjects which , as a percentage of leukocytes , was significant ( p = 0.05 ) . 
a national study of aids and residency training : experiences , concerns , and consequences objective : to examine residents ' experiences in the care of patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , and to examine factors that may influence their attitudes about such care . design : cross-sectional , self-administered questionnaire survey conducted in 1989 . participants : all senior internal medicine and family medicine residents in ten geographically representative states who were identified through the 1986 national residency matching program . measurements and main results : seventy-four percent of residents reported that patients with aids accounted for 5 % or more of general medicine admissions , and 50 % of residents reported that they were currently following one or more human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - infected patients in their continuity clinics . among residents who had provided ambulatory care to patients with aids , 77 % felt that it was an excellent educational experience , and among those who planned to do general primary care in their future practices , 74 % planned on providing primary care to patients with aids . however , 61 % expressed concerns about the adequacy of their training in aids ambulatory care . a greater amount of contact with outpatients who had aids , but not with inpatients who had aids , was associated with residents ' intending to provide aids primary care in their future practices . among all residents , 23 % reported that , if given a choice , they would not provide care to any patients with aids , and 23 % reported that they would not work in an area with a high prevalence of aids because of concern about contracting the syndrome . nine percent of residents reported that they had been exposed to a blood-contaminated needlestick from an hiv-seropositive patient . conclusions : although most residents have substantial contact with inpatients and outpatients with aids , most still find their education in aids ambulatory care to be deficient . a minority of residents would prefer not to care for patients with aids . residency curricula should include training and experience in ambulatory aids care , explicitly address negative attitudes toward caring for patients with aids , and include programs to reduce needlestick exposures . 
treatment of spasticity with botulinum toxin : a double-blind study . we studied the effect of botulinum-a toxin on spasticity of the leg adductors in 9 patients who were either chair-bound or bed-bound with chronic stable multiple sclerosis . we injected botulinum toxin ( 400 mouse units ) or placebo into the adductor muscles in a randomized , crossover , double-blind design . two physicians , who were unaware of the treatment order , used an objective rating scale and independently assessed the patients ; interobserver correlation was excellent ( r = 0.93-0 .81 ) . we found that botulinum toxin produced a significant reduction in spasticity ( p = 0.009 ) and a significant improvement in the ease of nursing care ( p = 0.009 ) . there were no adverse effects during this short-term trial . this is the first demonstration of the beneficial effect of botulinum toxin on focal spastic muscle contractions . 
cerebrospinal fluid neopterin in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection . we evaluated cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) concentrations of neopterin , a putative marker of activated macrophages , in 97 subjects infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 who had a spectrum of neurological complications . the highest csf neopterin concentrations occurred in those with neurological opportunistic infections , primary central nervous systems lymphoma , and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) dementia complex . in general , the csf concentration of neopterin was independent of csf cell count and blood-brain barrier disruption to albumin . in the patients with aids dementia complex , csf neopterin concentrations correlated with severity of disease and decreased in conjunction with clinical improvement following treatment with zidovudine . these results suggest that csf neopterin , although not disease-specific , may be useful as a surrogate marker for the presence of aids dementia complex and its response to antiviral therapy . 
htlv-i sequences are not detected in peripheral blood genomic dna or in brain cdna of multiple sclerosis patients . human t-cell lymphotropic virus ( htlv-i ) was recently reported to be etiologically associated with multiple sclerosis ( ms ) . genomic dna from peripheral blood lymphocytes and brain plaques of patients with ms was analyzed for the presence of sequences homologous to the htlv-i pol gene using the polymerase chain reaction and dot blot techniques . comparison of dna amplification patterns between patients with ms , and with control subjects who have other autoimmune conditions , with those in healthy control subjects and with an htlv-i-infected cell line indicates that htlv-i pol sequence is not present in the peripheral blood of patients with ms , and that the virus is not active in ms brain plaques . 
human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - associated myopathy : immunocytochemical identification of an hiv antigen ( gp 41 ) in muscle macrophages . in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency disease syndrome ( aids ) and muscle weakness , a muscle biopsy specimen disclosed degeneration of muscle fibers , regeneration , and focal endomysial mononuclear inflammation . a conspicuous feature was the presence of perivascular macrophages within the endomysium that showed positive immunostaining for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) ( gp 41 ) antigen . hiv was not detected within myofibers . our findings suggest an important role for the hiv-infected macrophage in the pathogenesis of this myopathy . 
effect of digitalis on clinical symptoms and conduction variables in patients with multiple sclerosis . digitalis has been shown to reverse conduction block in demyelinated nerve fibers in experimental animals . in the search for a symptomatic treatment of multiple sclerosis , digoxin ( 0.02 mg per kilogram of body weight ) was given intravenously to 7 patients with probable or clinically definite multiple sclerosis . all of these patients had temperature-dependent symptoms . in 3 patients , improvement of clinical deficits was observed concurrent with significant changes in evoked potential findings . digitalis derivatives may be useful in ameliorating symptoms in selected patients with multiple sclerosis . 
lymphoproliferative disorders associated with carbamazepine . carbamazepine-induced lymphoproliferative disorders are relatively rare . a 32-year-old woman developed cervical lymphadenopathy while taking carbamazepine . histologic evaluation of the lymph node biopsy specimen demonstrated near-total effacement of the nodal architecture by a population of pleomorphic immunoblasts . the predominant cell population expressed cd3 , cd2 , cd5 , and cd4 , while results of testing for cd8 were negative . on the basis of the morphologic and immunohistologic features , a diagnosis of high-grade , non-hodgkin 's lymphoma , t-cell immunoblastic type , was made . despite the fact that aggressive behavior is usually associated with immunoblastic lymphomas , the patient has done well for 33 months after cessation of carbamazepine in the absence of chemotherapeutic treatment . the clinical features of this patient 's illness , therefore , suggest that it is best regarded as a so-called pseudolymphoma . 
monocytoid b-cell lymphoma in a patient with human immunodeficiency virus infection . demonstration of human immunodeficiency virus sequences in paraffin-embedded lymph node sections by polymerase chain reaction amplification . there is a significantly increased incidence of malignant lymphoma in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . the lymphomas are usually of a high grade and of b-cell phenotype . while the frequent presence of reactive monocytoid b lymphocytes in patients with aids-related lymphadenopathy has recently been documented in several studies , to our knowledge , there are no reported cases of monocytoid b-cell lymphoma , the neoplastic counterpart of monocytoid b lymphocytes , in patients with aids . we now describe a human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - positive patient with hiv-related lymphadenopathy in whom monocytoid b-cell lymphoma developed during the course of his disease . the morphologic and immunologic features of the lymphoma were characteristic of monocytoid b-cell lymphoma , and the involved lymph node exhibited a reversed cd4/cd8 ratio . moreover , using the polymerase chain reaction , we were able to demonstrate hiv genome in dna extracted from the lymph node tissue . to our knowledge , this is the first report of a case of monocytoid b-cell lymphoma occurring in an hiv-positive patient and in which we were able , by using a sensitive molecular biologic technique , to demonstrate hiv sequence in paraffin-embedded , fixed lymph node sections . 
pulmonary malakoplakia in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . differential diagnostic considerations . malakoplakia is an unusual inflammatory condition characterized histopathologically by accumulations of benign macrophages , or von hansemann 's cells , that are associated with diagnostic intracellular and extracellular calcospherites , termed michaelis-gutmann bodies . currently believed to represent an acquired defect of macrophage digestion , malakoplakia most commonly occurs in the urinary tract and is associated with a variety of infectious agents , notably gram-negative bacilli . we describe a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome who presented with a cavitating lingular mass . a transbronchial biopsy specimen revealed pulmonary malakoplakia , the seventh reported case of this condition and the second reported occurrence of pulmonary malakoplakia in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . microbiological cultures were positive for rhodococcus equi . the significance of this finding , and the differential diagnosis of intra-alveolar histiocytic proliferations in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , is discussed . 
stereotactic biopsy of an active multiple sclerosis lesion . immunocytochemical analysis and neuropathologic correlation with magnetic resonance imaging . stereotactic biopsy of an active multiple sclerosis lesion in a 23-year-old patient with unilateral symptoms and an isolated high-signal-intensity magnetic resonance abnormality yielded 10 serial tissue cores ( 1.0 x 0.5 cm ) spanning 40 mm within and around the lesion . we performed semiquantitative analysis of lymphocyte phenotype , using antisera to cd3 , cd4 , cd8 , and cd22 molecules , in 11 separate perivascular cuffs in three tissue sections from the lesion edge . total cells in the cuffs varied from 10 to 100 ; ratios of cd4 + / cd8 + cells in individual cuffs varied from 1.3 to 4.7 . although intense parenchymal infiltrates bordered the least cellular cuffs , parenchymal and perivascular cell phenotypes were indistinguishable , arguing against selective trafficking of lymphocytes into tissue . individual microfoci of cells displaying cd45ra , cd25 , and tq1 antigens were present . the remarkable phenotypic heterogeneity of t lymphocytes in the multiple sclerosis lesion border is consistent with exposure in situ to a diversity of differentiating stimuli . histologic demyelination correlated very closely with the signal-intensity abnormality observed on magnetic resonance imaging . these studies provide unusual insight into the histologic and immunocytochemical morphologic appearance of the active multiple sclerosis plaque . 
reduced cerebral blood flow in early stages of human immunodeficiency virus infection . in order to determine if brain perfusion abnormalities , which are known in patients with acquiredimmunodeficiency syndrome dementia , occur in early stages of human immunodeficiency virus infection , technetium 99m hexamethyl-propyleneamine oxime-single-photon emission computed tomography studies were performed in 20 patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus who belonged to walter reed stages i through iv . none of these patients demonstrated signs of dementia or severe neurological dysfunction . pathological patterns of hexamethyl-propyleneamine oxime uptake were seen in 14 patients , seven of whom had normal results during neurological examination . only four patients had signs of cerebral atrophy on cranial computed tomographic scan . these data suggest that subtle changes in cerebral perfusion seem to arise early in the course of human immunodeficiency virus infection and may indicate human immunodeficiency virus encephalopathy before neurological symptoms or noticeable structural damage occurs . 
genomic divergence of an hiv-2 from a german aids patient probably infected in mali . the complete nucleotide sequence of an hiv-2 isolate derived from a german aids patient with predominantly neurological symptoms is reported . the hiv-2ben sequence is highly divergent from those of previously described hiv-2 and siv strains . evolutionary tree analysis of eight hiv-2 sequences reveals the existence of three hiv-2 groups . hiv-2ben belongs to a group with two isolates from ghana and the gambia . based on a comparison of hiv-2ben with six hiv-2 isolates , sivsmm and sivmac , the variability of the structural env and gag proteins is similar within the hiv-2 / sivsmm/mac and hiv-1 groups . in contrast , the regulatory hiv-1 proteins are more highly conserved than those from hiv-2 strains . multiple sequence alignments reveal that some domains of the envelope and regulatory proteins are well conserved among hiv-1 , hiv-2 / sivsmm/mac , sivagm and sivmnd . the identification of conserved domains within the external glycoprotein could help to develop broadly active vaccines . 
response of mononuclear cells from hiv-infected patients to b-cell mitogens : correlation with immunological and clinical features of disease progression . proliferation of mononuclear cells from hiv-seropositive patients to b-cell mitogens was studied in the absence and presence of mixed lymphocyte culture supernatants ( mlc-sup ) . the results show : ( 1 ) patients ' responses to b-cell mitogens overlap with normal responses but are , on average , consistently lower than normal ; ( 2 ) the addition of mlc-sup increases the proliferative responses to t-cell-independent mitogens , but does not bring patient 's responses up to control levels ; ( 3 ) hiv-positive patients in all clinical categories have decreased responses to b-cell mitogens . although some patients with aids centers for disease control ( cdc ) group ivc and ivd have the lowest responses , asymptomatic ( cdc group ii ) and aids-related complex ( arc ; cdc groups iii/iva and ivb ) patients also show significant defects . ( 4 ) the same patients were recategorized using an immunological staging system . those patients with more normal immunohematological parameters have significantly greater responses to mitogens compared with patients with more abnormal immunological parameters . the data suggest that immunological staging could provide more information than clinical classification with respect to the underlying immunopathogenic events occurring in hiv infection . 
rapid and specific diagnosis of hiv-1 and hiv-2 infections : an evaluation of testing strategies . to identify cost-effective testing strategies for hiv-1 and hiv-2 infections , we evaluated different combinations of tests on serum specimens from 1134 consecutive patients attending tuberculosis treatment centers in abidjan , cote d'lvoire . virus-specific whole-virus enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( wve ) , western blot ( wb ) and synthetic peptide enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( spe ) were used in sequential fashion to determine the true prevalence of infection ; 27 % were reactive to hiv-1 , 5 % to hiv-2 , and 10 % to both viruses . of 239 specimens positive on wb for both hiv-1 and hiv-2 , spe diagnosed 38 % as hiv-1-reactive and 16 % as hiv-2-reactive , while 46 % remained reactive to both viruses . using wve or one of two rapid ( 5-10 min ) mixed ( hiv-1 and hiv-2 ) antigen tests ( rmats ) as a screening test , followed by spe as a supplemental test , gave results with sensitivity of 97.3-99 .2 % , specificity of 99.5-99 .7 % , and positive predictive value for diagnosing hiv infection of 99.4-99 .6 % , with important savings in time and reagent costs . spe allows more specific distinction between hiv-1 and hiv-2 infections than wb , and could replace it as a supplemental test in many settings . wb may be required for specimens reactive on screening tests but negative on spe , until sensitivity of the spe is further evaluated . a mixed antigen screening test followed by spe seems to be an efficient testing strategy for diagnosing hiv-1 and hiv-2 infections . 
aids following mother-to-child transmission of hiv-2 . mother-to-child infection with hiv-2 is thought to be rare , and there have been few previous reports of transmission by this route . reports of morbidity associated with hiv-2 infection in children are also rare . we describe eight children born to mothers who were infected with hiv-2 ; five developed aids , and three were still seropositive at 17-49 months of age . the only apparent route of hiv-2 transmission was from mother to child , except for one child who had been transfused . three of the children with aids died , all having decreased cd4 + lymphocytes and mitogen responses . further studies are needed to determine the prevalence and natural history of mother-to-child transmission of hiv-2 . 
an analysis of the economic impact of hiv infection among patients at mama yemo hospital , kinshasa , zaire . in a prospective study of adult admissions to the department of internal medicine at mama yemo hospital , kinshasa , zaire in late 1988 , 129 women and 122 men were screened for hiv infection . fifty per cent were found to be seropositive , with half of the seropositives meeting the world health organization ( who ) clinical aids definition . the hiv seropositives had a mortality rate of 50 % , which was significantly higher ( p = 0.004 ) than the 30 % mortality rate seen in the seronegative group . direct costs during hospitalization did not differ ( $ 60.30 for hiv seropositives , $ 56.50 for hiv seronegatives ) , but pre-hospitalization expenses were significantly higher in the hiv-seropositive group ( $ 170 for hiv seropositives , $ 110 for hiv seronegatives ) . years of productive life lost due to death were also significantly higher for hiv seropositives versus hiv seronegatives ( 30.6 versus 21.3 years ; p = 0.0007 ) , and 73 % of the premature mortality in the study population was attributable to hiv infection . 
differences in knowledge of and risk factors for aids between hispanic and non-hispanic women attending an urban family planning clinic . risk factors for aids , contraceptive use , seroprevalence of hiv , and level of knowledge before and after an aids education session were assessed for 657 clients attending a family planning clinic in los angeles , usa . history of a partner who was bisexual , an intravenous drug user , or a blood transfusion recipient were the most common risk factors . spanish speakers reported fewer traditional risk factors than english speakers . they were also less likely to report a history of drug or alcohol use or sexually transmitted diseases , and to have had fewer sexual partners . less than one-third of the women identified as being at risk of exposure were using condoms . none of 351 consecutive patients tested for hiv antibodies was positive . english speakers scored higher on both pre - and post-tests of knowledge about aids . cultural factors may lower the personal risk of hiv exposure for spanish-speaking women , but lack of knowledge about aids and partner behavior may increase risk . 
high hiv risk-taking among young gay men . previous research has shown younger age to be correlated with greater hiv sexual risk-taking among gay men . the purpose of this study was to identify variables associated with hiv risk-taking among younger gay men . ninety-nine gay men aged 18-25 in three medium-sized west coast communities completed self-report questionnaires regarding hiv-related behaviors and attitudes . of the respondents , 43 % reported having engaged in unprotected anal intercourse during the previous 6 months . men who engaged in unprotected anal intercourse reported greater enjoyment of unprotected anal intercourse , perceived less risk of unprotected anal intercourse , labeled themselves as more at risk for aids , reported poorer communication skills with sexual partners , and were more likely to have a boyfriend/lover than men who had not engaged in high-risk sex . in addition , respondents perceived the likelihood of acquiring hiv from unprotected anal intercourse with young gay men to be significantly lower than with older gay men . these findings highlight the need for hiv risk-reduction interventions designed specifically for young gay men and identify critical areas to be targeted in such interventions . 
prevention of perinatal hiv transmission : are there alternatives to pre-pregnancy serological screening in kinshasa , zaire ? complete obstetrical and medical histories were obtained from 6312 women between the ages of 15 and 45 years who had undergone hiv serological tests . individual factors were examined for sensitivity , specificity and positive predictive value of hiv infection . no individual risk factors for hiv infection were identified which had sensitivities greater than 60 % . combinations of factors were modelled by logistic regression . only a model which included indicators of present illness with aids/hiv-related symptoms ( i.e. , chronic fever , diarrhea or profound weight loss ) was predictive of hiv serostatus . these results suggest that identification of healthy women at high risk of hiv infection using non-serological information is not feasible . thus , since the yearly cost of universal serological screening is prohibitively expensive in the zairean context , hiv/aids education and prevention campaigns may in fact be a more cost-effective means of preventing perinatal transmission of hiv . 
detection of hiv in fetal central nervous system tissue . neurological disease is a common finding in children with aids and in others without signs of disease but with evidence of congenital hiv-1 infection . to investigate the possibility that hiv-1 can infect fetal central nervous system ( cns ) tissue and therefore possibly serve as the substrate for the abnormal neurodevelopment characteristic of pediatric aids , eight abortus cns samples ( one set of twins ) from seven hiv-1-seropositive intravenous drug users ( ivdus ) and eight control abortus cns samples from eight hiv-1-seronegative ivdus were analyzed for hiv-1 infection . hiv-1 nucleic acid was detected only after the use of polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) in three of eight cns samples from hiv-seropositive ivdus but not in samples from seronegative subjects . in situ hybridization confirmed that hiv-1 dna sequences were in cells in the cns parenchyma of two of the three positive samples . this study demonstrates that hiv-1 can infect human fetal cns tissue in vivo , but that the use of pcr may be necessary for its detection . 
immunology of hiv infection , i : biology of the interferons . interferons ( ifn ) are the prototypic biologic response modifiers . they comprise a multigene family of regulatory proteins and glycoproteins that affect a variety of cellular functions , including normal and neoplastic cell growth , immune reactivity , and host-parasite interactions . their importance to basic cell biology and cellular immune defense , and their interactions with human immunodeficiency viruses ( hiv ) on the molecular and cellular levels , form the basis for this review . 
morphine-induced transactivation of hiv-1 ltr in human neuroblastoma cells . infection by human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) is followed in many cases by a clinically quiescent or latent phase that appears to continue as long as host antiviral defense is intact . this has raised the possibility that certain host susceptibility factors ( i.e. , environmental cofactors ) might influence the progression of the disease . in this study we demonstrate that morphine can function to activate hiv/ltr-cat fusion gene ( hiv-long terminal repeat-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase ) when transfected into undifferentiated human sh-sy5y neuroblastoma cells . the stimulatory effect of morphine is amplified in sh-sy5y cells that have been induced to differentiate first with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) and is much less in cells differentiated with retinoic acid ( ra ) . morphine does not appreciably activate hiv/ltr-cat expression in human molt-3 and other t cells . morphine activation of hiv/ltr-cat in the sh-sy5y cells is not reversible by naltrexone and appears to involve a fos/jun signaling system . our results suggest that narcotics such as morphine may lead to activation of latent hiv infection . this may be particularly important in tissues , such as brain , which can host latent hiv infection and which is uniquely damaged in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) as evidenced by neuronal degeneration and dementia . we also predict that these findings may have important implications for the pathogenesis of aids , particularly in opiate drug abusers . 
naturally occurring hiv-1 isolates with differences in replicative capacity are distinguished by in situ hybridization of infected cells . replication of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) isolates in peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( pbmc ) has been studied by in situ hybridization using the riboprobe bh10-r3 from htlv-iiib . two series of isolates were tested : ( a ) 20 isolates from individuals with varying severity of hiv-1 infection and ( b ) sequential isolates from 5 subjects showing signs of clinical progression over a 45 month observation period . the results show that hiv-1 isolates with distinct replicative capacity can be distinguished by the intensity of radioactive labeling over single infected cells after in situ hybridization . sequential isolates from patients with clinically progressive hiv-1 infection show a gradual increase in replicative capacity over time . in pbmc cultures infected with such sequential isolates , intensity of radioactive label over single infected cells increases and is strongest with isolates obtained at the time of low cd4 counts in blood . the results suggest that the restriction of virus replication that operates in the early stages of hiv-1 infection is gradually lost with progression of the disease . 
search for epitope-specific antibody responses to the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv-1 ) envelope glycoproteins signifying resistance to disease development . it is essential for the development of strategies for prevention and therapy of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv-1 ) infections to define host factors playing a dominant role in determining the clinical outcome of infection . antibodies directed against restricted regions of the hiv-1 glycoproteins gp120 and gp41 are likely to represent important factors involved in host defense against hiv-1 . definition of qualitative and quantitative differences in the spectrum of anti-gp120 and anti-gp41 antibodies between two vastly different groups of hiv-1-infected individuals , long-term asymptomatic carriers , and individuals with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) who died , might reveal the epitope specificity of antibodies contributing to prevention of clinical disease . to accomplish this goal , sera from both groups were assayed for antibodies recognizing synthetic peptides from gp120/gp41 which were shown in earlier experiments to mimic epitopes on the two hiv-1 glycoproteins . none of the sera recognized all of the distinct 27 peptides from gp120 and gp41 . the spectrum of antibodies was distinct for each of the sera from both groups of hiv-1-infected individuals . nevertheless , antibody responses distinguishing the two groups from each other were discerned . in particular , it was possible to predict the unfavorable outcome of disease by comparative measurements of levels of antibodies to a peptide ( 303-338 ) , corresponding to the entire v3 hypervariable loop of gp120 and/or by providing evidence for declining levels of these antibodies during the course of infection . antibodies recognizing additional peptides [ ( 219-245 ) , ( 280-306 ) , ( 425-452 ) , ( 658-682 ) , ( 729-758 ) , ( 808-845 ) , and ( 845-862 ) ] were significantly less prevalent in aids patients than in asymptomatic carriers . it appears possible that maintenance of high levels of the respective antibodies would contribute to preventing aids in hiv-1-infected individuals . active immunization with antigens containing epitopes defined by the respective peptides and/or administration of the corresponding antibodies may be considered as a modality for therapy of hiv-1 infections . 
a semiquantitative microassay for measurement of relative number of blood mononuclear cells infected with human immunodeficiency virus . a simple semiquantitative microassay was developed for the measurement of relative number of infected peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( pbmc ) from individuals infected with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) . the assay is based on cocultivation of serially diluted pbmc of a seropositive person with phytohemagglutinin-stimulated normal pbmc . the microassay has comparable sensitivity with the standard virus culture method in detecting positive hiv cultures . since the microassay uses only 2-3 x 10 ( 5 ) patients ' pbmc , the assay is also most suitable for hiv isolation from hiv-infected infants or from aids patients with extremely low t-cell counts . the microassay can also be used to measure antiviral effects of a drug on persistent hiv infection in vitro . because the microassay measures the relative number of infected pbmc , it can be readily used for following the quantitative antiviral effect of a drug in a clinical trial . 
cumulative aids incidence and altered mortality from bacterial infections . to determine whether populations with high cumulative incidence of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) experienced increased deaths from sepsis , central nervous system abscess , or endocarditis , new jersey aids patients were grouped according to their age , sex , race , and residence-specific cumulative incidence of aids since the onset of the aids epidemic . between 1980 and 1986 , among 25-44 year olds in the highest cumulative incidence group for aids , sepsis mortality increased from 3.3 to 15.2 deaths/100 ,000 / year , an increase of 11.9 deaths/100 ,000 / year ( 95 % confidence interval ( 6.9 , 17.0 ) deaths/100 ,000 / year ) ; mortality from central nervous system abscesses increased from zero to 1.7 ( 0.1 , 3.2 ) deaths/100 ,000 / year ; and mortality from endocarditis increased from 0.8 deaths/100 ,000 / year to 2.4 deaths/100 ,000 / year , an increase of 1.6 ( -0.5 , 3.7 ) deaths/100 ,000 / year . age-matched new jersey patient populations with low cumulative incidence of aids did not sustain a similar increase . the hiv disease-associated increase in sepsis mortality among young populations represents a new component of the substantial increase in u.s. sepsis mortality that occurred over the last two decades , but was previously limited to older populations . 
anti tsh-receptor antibodies in pregnant patients with autoimmune thyroid disorder . the study was designed to test further the usefulness of the radioreceptor assay of thyroid stimulating hormone ( tsh ) binding inhibitory immunoglobulins ( tbii ) and the bioassay of thyroid stimulating antibodies ( tsab ) or tsh stimulated camp response inhibitory antibodies ( tbkab ) in the prediction of neonatal thyroid dysfunction . of 63 pregnant women with a current or past history of autoimmune thyroid disorder , 11 ( one with active and six with a past history of graves ' disease and four with autoimmune thyroiditis ) gave birth to a baby with transient hyper or hypo-thyroidism . only high maternal titres ( which could persist after partial thyroidectomy ) of anti tsh-receptor antibodies ( trab ) led to neonatal hyperthyroidism . both types of assay were able to detect the antibodies responsible for transitory neonatal autoimmune thyroid disease . tbii values reflected tsab titres so that there was a significant correlation between the results of both assays in women with graves ' disease and in neonatal sera . positive tbii and tbkab activities were present in 5 of the 28 women with autoimmune thyroiditis . therefore , when tbii is positive , the functional characterization of the antibodies warrants the use of the bioassay . 
amyloidosis associated bleeding diatheses in the surgical patient . the coagulopathies associated with amyloidosis have not been widely appreciated . we encountered a patient with amyloidosis and mildly abnormal coagulation studies who presented for an emergency laparotomy for acute bowel obstruction . upon gentle manipulation of the bowel , an unexpected bleeding diathesis was manifested by the formation of several large haematomas resulting in a large amount of blood loss ( approximately 800 ml ) . numerous defects of platelet function and coagulation have been associated with amyloidosis , including abnormal platelet aggregation , increased vascular fragility , factor ix and x deficiencies , decreased levels of alpha-2-plasmin inhibitor , and increased levels of plasminogen . intraoperative therapy for our patient included the rapid administration of four units of fresh frozen plasma and ten units of platelet concentrate . a review of the pathology and therapeutic modalities for this potentially life-threatening complication is presented . 
development of acute myelocytic leukemia in patients with crohn 's disease . in our hospital within one year two patients with crohn 's disease were seen who developed an acute myelocytic leukemia . a review of the literature reveals eight previously reported patients with both crohn 's disease and leukemia . six of the reported 10 patients have had acute myelocytic leukemia and , interestingly , three of them , including our two patients , have shown monocytic differentiation ( fab type m4 ) . it has been suggested that the relative risk of leukemia , especially acute myelocytic leukemia , is increased in patients suffering from ulcerative colitis . more data of patients with crohn 's disease and acute leukemia are needed to evaluate the possible association between these diseases . 
massive hepatic infarction in systemic lupus erythematosus . liver disease in systemic lupus erythematosus , as demonstrated by abnormal histopathology , is rare and usually mild ; typically , this hepatic disease is of chronic nature and not related to a hypercoagulable state . a patient is described in whom life-threatening hypercoagulability in association with systemic lupus erythematosus resulted in extensive liver infarction . follow-up radionuclide liver scintigraphy suggested that regenerative recovery in the infarcted areas of the liver may be delayed or absent , but there was no evident functional hepatic impairment . 
epstein-barr virus associated oesophageal ulcers in aids . epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) associated ulceration has not previously been included in the differential diagnosis of oesophageal ulcers in aids . we report five cases of oesophageal ulceration in homosexual men with advanced human immunodeficiency virus infection in whom this was considered to be the most likely cause . dna in situ hybridisation studies showed ebv in biopsy material from three of four patients with oesophageal ulcers and in none of three controls . of other viruses studied , only human papillomavirus was present , and this was found in both patients and control subjects . these findings support the hypothesis that ebv is an aetiological factor in some cases of aids-associated oesophageal ulceration . 
metabolic studies of radioiodinated serum amyloid p component in normal subjects and patients with systemic amyloidosis . 125i-serum amyloid p component ( sap ) , injected intravenously into 10 normal subjects , remained predominantly intravascular with mean ( sd ) t1/2 ( half time ) in plasma of 24.5 ( 5.9 ) h. the fractional catabolic rate of 68 ( 19 ) % of the plasma pool per day was more rapid than other reported human plasma proteins . all radioactivity was excreted in the urine by 14 d. in 16 patients with monoclonal gammopathy or chronic inflammatory diseases , but without amyloidosis , 125i-sap metabolism was normal . however , among 45 patients with biopsy-proven systemic amyloidosis ( 25 , amyloid a type ; 20 , amyloid l type ) , 125i-sap was cleared from the plasma more rapidly , accumulated in the amyloid deposits , and persisted there . the t1/2 in amyloid , measured directly with 131i-sap , was 24 d. repeat studies after 6-18 mo were notably consistent in normals but changed significantly in amyloid patients , generally correlating with clinical signs of disease progression . measurements of 125i-sap turnover may thus be of value for diagnosis and monitoring of amyloidosis . analysis of sap metabolism in amyloidosis suggests that plasma sap is in dynamic equilibrium with a very large amyloid pool , and in two autopsies the total mass of sap in the amyloid deposits was 2,100 and 21,000 mg , respectively . 
widespread dermatophyte infections that mimic collagen vascular disease . this article reports the cases of two patients in whom a widespread dermatophyte infection mimicked the cutaneous lesions of their underlying collagen vascular disease . griseofulvin may be associated with an increased incidence of adverse cutaneous reactions in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus . one patient with systemic lupus erythematosus developed erythema multiforme after taking griseofulvin . 
parasympathetic nervous system activity in hypothyroidism determined by r-r interval variations on electrocardiogram . little is known about the relationship between hypothyroidism and the parasympathetic nervous system . r-r interval variations revealed by electrocardiogram ( ecg ) are known to be a useful clinical indicator of abnormalities of parasympathetic nervous system activity . studies were conducted in hypothyroid patients , and significant reductions in r-r interval variations were observed in patients with primary severe hypothyroidism due to hashimoto 's thyroiditis , and in patients with graves ' disease who became severely hypothyroid during antithyroid drug therapy . r-r interval variations were restored to normal levels in both groups of patients after treatment . the present investigation suggests that in marked hypothyroidism there are hypofunctional abnormalities in the parasympathetic nervous system in association with a reduction in the levels of serum t4 and t3 . 
a method of pharmacoepidemiologic analysis that uses computerized medicaid . a method of pharmacoepidemiologic data analysis that utilizes computerized medicaid data is presented . a cohort design in which medicaid enrollees receiving drugs that are normally used to treat similar underlying conditions is described . a period of time in which medicaid service transactions are evident is required before an individual is eligible for selection into a cohort . selection of study subjects and descriptions of cohorts are based on medicaid service histories occurring during the preliminary , prerequisite period . time at risk is considered to begin after a prescription for a study drug is dispensed and continues until either a refill is dispensed , a prescription for an alternative drug within the same therapeutic class is dispensed , or a predetermined number of days has passed . subjects are followed forward in time and relevant health care transactions that are suggestive of suspected adverse drug reactions are noted . incidence densities associated with sequentially ranked prescriptions within sequential courses of therapy are compared . methods to increase the accuracy of case ascertainment are briefly discussed . separate validation studies may be used to evaluate the validity of computerized case ascertainment methods and to compensate for misclassification of outcome . the proposed method is intended to provide timely estimates of risk for selected outcomes . for outcomes that can not be accurately ascertained from computerized data , this method may be useful in determining the feasibility of more customized studies . 
a phase i study of recombinant human interferon-alpha 2a or human lymphoblastoid interferon-alpha n1 and concomitant zidovudine in patients with aids-related kaposi 's sarcoma . to determine the safety , maximum tolerated dose , and preliminary efficacy of concomitant interferon-alpha and zidovudine therapy in aids-related kaposi 's sarcoma ( ks ) , 56 patients with biopsy-proven ks and documented human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv ) infection were enrolled into a phase i study . interferon-alpha was given intramuscularly at a dose of 9 , 18 , or 27 mu once a day and zidovudine was administered as 100 or 200 mg every 4 h for 8 weeks followed by a 48-week maintenance period . the major toxicities were anemia , neutropenia , and hepatotoxicity . neutropenia was dose limiting with 1,200 mg of zidovudine/day and the lowest dose of interferon-alpha ( 9 mu/day ) . hepatotoxicity was dose limiting with 27 mu of interferon and 600 mg of zidovudine/day . cumulative dose-related anemia or neutropenia was not seen during long-term follow-up . the maximum tolerated doses for the combination were defined as 18 mu daily for interferon-alpha and 600 mg daily for zidovudine . variable changes in cd4 lymphocytes occurred during the first 8 weeks of therapy . at higher doses of the combination , sustained increases in median cd4 lymphocyte numbers were noted ( p less than 0.001 ) . in hiv antigenemic patients , progressive antigen suppression was seen with increasing doses of the combination ( p less than 0.005 ) . the overall antitumor response rate was 47 % . tumor regression was associated with better survival benefits ( p less than 0.001 ) and a pretreatment cd4 cell count greater than or equal to 200 cells/mm3 ( p = 0.01 ) . in conclusion , intermediate doses of interferon-alpha and lower doses of zidovudine appear to be relatively well tolerated and associated with disease improvement , including survival benefits . 
orthostatic hypotension in human immunodeficiency virus infection may be the result of generalized autonomic nervous system dysfunction . we used an autonomic nervous system ( ans ) testing battery to determine if generalized ans dysfunction was present in five human immunodeficiency virus-positive ( hiv + ) patients presenting with severe orthostatic hypotension ( oh ) . all five patients had abnormal ans testing , which demonstrated both sympathetic and parasympathetic defects , i.e. , generalized ans dysfunction . treatment with fludrocortisone effectively reversed the oh in four of the five patients . the oh was transient in these four patients . we believe it is important to recognize that oh may be the result of generalized ans dysfunction in hiv-positive patients and that it can be effectively treated . 
is the incubation period of aids lengthening ? data from a cohort study of 1,637 homosexual men in los angeles are used to estimate the distribution of times from hiv infection to aids , and to detect any changes in the distribution . we find weak , but not statistically significant , evidence that the incubation period is lengthening . when the incubation period distribution is assumed not to have changed , we estimate that the proportion developing aids within 6 years of hiv infection is 27 % , with a 95 % confidence interval of ( 23 % , 31 % ) . however , if we assume that the incubation period distribution began to change in july 1987 , then we estimate that for individuals infected in the first half of 1979 , 28 % develop aids within 6 years , and for those infected in the first half of 1983 , 25 % develop aids in 6 years . four different hypotheses are suggested for a lengthening of the incubation period ; these are a treatment hypothesis , a cofactor hypothesis , a better health care hypothesis , and a changing virus and disease hypothesis . the statistical method used is semiparametric modeling of the joint distribution of the date of infection and the incubation period for the participants in the study . these methods , although computationally intensive , are an attractive way of analyzing data from a prevalent cohort because only minimal parametric assumptions are made . 
cigarette smoking : a modifier of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection ? two hundred and two homosexual men enrolled in a prospective cohort study of aids risk were assessed for differences in the occurrence and progression of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) infection with respect to cigarette smoking . among subjects who were initially seronegative , smokers were more likely than nonsmokers to become hiv-1 seropositive ( p = 0.03 ) . after seroconversion , serum beta 2-microglobulin and cd4 + lymphocyte levels were elevated in cigarette smokers relative to nonsmokers ( p = 0.02 for both comparisons ) , but both of these differences disappeared within 2 years . there was no detectable difference in the risk of aids or pneumocystis carinii pneumonia with respect to smoking . our data suggest that cigarette smoking may alter the immune response to hiv-1 infection , but it appears to have no marked effect on clinical outcome . they also suggest that cigarette smoking may be a surrogate marker for continued high-risk sexual behavior in homosexual men . 
epidemiology of acquired immune deficiency syndrome in persons aged 50 years or older . acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) has afflicted persons of all ages , yet only recently has attention been devoted to aids in older persons . to examine the epidemiology of aids in persons greater than or equal to 50 years old in the united states , we analyzed cases reported to the centers for disease control . the number reported annually in persons greater than or equal to 50 years old increased from 13 in 1981 to 3,562 in 1989 . through december 1989 , 11,984 had been reported , representing 10 % of all cases . although male homosexual contact accounted for most cases in persons aged 50-69 , blood transfusion became a more common means of exposure with increasing age , accounting for 28 % of cases in persons aged 60-69 and 64 % of cases in individuals aged greater than or equal to 70 . the proportion of women increased from 6.1 % in persons with aids aged 50-59 to 28.7 % of those aged greater than or equal to 70 . the proportion of aids diagnoses made in the same month as death increased from 16 % in persons aged 50-59 to 37 % in those aged greater than or equal to 80 , suggesting either more rapid progression of disease or increasing delay in diagnosis . as the incidence in older persons continues to increase , clinicians caring for older patients must become more familiar with aids . 
defective expression of p70/75 interleukin 2 receptor in t cells from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus : a possible defect in the process of increased intracellular calcium leading to p70/75 expression . phytohemagglutinin ( pha ) stimulated t cells from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) showed hyporesponsiveness to interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) and expressed less p70/75 il-2r than healthy controls . ionomycine ( im , calcium ionophore ) which selectively upregulated p70/75 expression , induced less p70/75 in patients with sle than in healthy controls . however , intracellular calcium levels of t cells from patients with sle increased as much as those from healthy controls , when t cells were stimulated by im or pha . our results suggest that an impaired expression of p70/75 il-2r in t cells from patients with sle is not due to a defective calcium influx but to the events after the rise of calcium levels . 
anti-rna polymerase i antibodies in the urine of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus . urine samples from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) ( n = 80 ) , patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) ( n = 21 ) , and healthy controls ( n = 36 ) were analyzed by radio-immunoassay ( ria ) for anti-rna polymerase i ( rpi ) antibodies . significant levels of anti-rpi antibodies were detected in the urine of 46 % of the patients with sle but in only 19 % of the patients with ra and in no sample from healthy individuals . the presence of anti-rpi antibodies in the urine was confirmed by demonstrating that igg purified from the urine of patients with sle was capable of inhibiting the transcriptional activity of rpi in vitro . if the quantity of anti-rpi antibodies excreted is related to disease activity , analysis of urine for these antibodies may be a useful alternative for the purpose of monitoring the progression of disease in individuals with sle because of the ease by which the sample can be collected . 
clinical significance of antibodies to a 68 kda u1rnp polypeptide in connective tissue disease . in a series of 163 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) and/or systemic sclerosis and/or mixed connective tissue disease ( mctd ) , the presence of antibodies to a 68 kda u1rnp associated polypeptide was more predictive for sle ( 88 % ) than for mctd ( 38-68 % ) using 3 different sets of proposed criteria for the latter condition . in all but one case studied serially the immunoblotting profile remained constant . in sle recognition of the 68 kda polypeptide identified a subset with increased vasoreactivity with raynaud 's phenomenon ( 96 % , p less than 0.001 ) and swollen fingers ( 68 % , p less than 0.001 ) whereas recognition of a 47 kda la ( ssb ) polypeptide was associated with photosensitivity ( 72 % , p less than 0.02 ) , less renal involvement ( p less than 0.05 ) and an older age of disease onset ( 46.6 years + / - 18.3 sd , p less than 0.002 ) . 
the spondyloarthropathies in zimbabwe : a clinical and immunogenetic profile . spondyloarthropathies are rare in africa and there is little data regarding hla association . we prospectively studied 19 patients with spondyloarthropathy , recording clinical details and performing tissue typing ( abc loci ) . there were 9 patients with ankylosing spondylitis ( 8 males ) , all had severe spinal disease but none had ocular or cardiac involvement and hla-b27 antigen was not found in any of the 7 patients tested ; only one patient possessed a b7 crossreacting antigen . the 10 patients with reiter 's syndrome ( 8 males ) had typical clinical features but again the hla-b27 tissue type was not found . b7-creg antigen was found in 7 of the 10 patients with reiter 's syndrome . 
diagnostic criteria for neuropsychiatric systemic lupus erythematosus : the results of a consensus meeting . the ad hoc neuropsychiatric lupus workshop group . definitions and classifications proposed for the neuropsychiatric complications of systemic lupus erythematosus ( np-sle ) indicate a wide range of approaches taken by different researchers and clinicians . a meeting of investigators was convened to begin a consensus process for standardizing its classification . we found that the level of agreement among raters on the importance of elements to the diagnosis of np-sle increased significantly as indicated by an intraclass correlation coefficient of 0.05 before the conference to 0.60 after the conference . the results of such studies can be used to generate and test the utility of diagnostic criteria for np-sle in multicenter trials . 
diclofenac induced immune thrombocytopenia . we describe a patient with scleroderma who developed immune thrombocytopenia secondary to diclofenac on 2 occasions . platelet count returned to normal with cessation of diclofenac and institution of prednisone . 
severe cerebral and systemic necrotizing vasculitis developing during pregnancy in a case of systemic lupus erythematosus . we describe a fatal case of systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) developing cerebral and systemic necrotizing vasculitis during pregnancy . the patient was discovered to have sle at 14 weeks ' gestation . although the symptoms disappeared without treatment with corticosteroid in the 2nd trimester , she presented with meningoencephalitis due to vasculitis in the 3rd trimester . polyarteritis nodosa ( pan ) - like necrotizing vasculitis of the small muscular arteries and arterioles , with acute and healing lesions in the leptomeninges , brain parenchyma and visceral organs was observed at postpartum autopsy . pan-like vasculitis in the central nervous system is quite rare in sle . this case is also suggestive in terms of the influence of pregnancy on the activity of sle . 
rectourethral fistula caused by kaposi 's sarcoma . a 35-year-old man with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-related complex was evaluated for a persistent urethral discharge , pneumaturia and watery diarrhea . radiographic and endoscopic procedures established the diagnosis of a rectourethral fistula . perineal exploration and excision of the fistula revealed the pathological diagnosis of kaposi 's sarcoma . the differential diagnosis of an acquired rectourethral fistula and the significance of kaposi 's sarcoma are discussed . 
a lethal complication of papaverine-induced priapism . a large series of patients was treated for impotence with intracorporeal injections of papaverine and phentolamine with no major complications and no deaths reported . we report on a 45-year-old black man with advanced multiple sclerosis who died after such therapy . when the first self-administered injection of phentolamine and papaverine failed to produce an adequate erection the patient injected a second dose that resulted in priapism and death of massive pulmonary embolism . 
